He interrupted her quickly. "Thought I'd cut up a rumpus-do some
shooting? I know--people did." He twisted his moustache, evidently proud
of his reputation. "Well, maybe I did see red for a day or two--but I'm
a philosopher, first and last. Before I went into banking I'd made and
lost two fortunes out West. Well, how did I build 'em up again? Not by
shooting anybody even myself. By just buckling to, and beginning all
over again. That's how... and that's what I am doing now. Beginning all
over again." His voice dropped from boastfulness to a note of wistful
melancholy, the look of strained jauntiness fell from his face like a
mask, and for an instant she saw the real man, old, ruined, lonely. Yes,
that was it: he was lonely, desperately lonely, foundering in such deep
seas of solitude that any presence out of the past was like a spar to
which he clung. Whatever he knew or guessed of the part she had played
in his disaster, it was not callousness that had made him greet her with
such forgiving warmth, but the same sense of smallness, insignificance
and isolation which perpetually hung like a cold fog on her own horizon.
Suddenly she too felt old--old and unspeakably tired.

"It's been nice seeing you, Nelson. But now I must be getting home."

He offered no objection, but asked for the bill, resumed his jaunty air
while he scattered largesse among the waiters, and sauntered out behind
her after calling for a taxi.

They drove off in silence. Susy was thinking: "And Clarissa?" but dared
not ask. Vanderlyn lit a cigarette, hummed a dance-tune, and stared out
of the window. Suddenly she felt his hand on hers.

"Susy--do you ever see her?"

"See--Ellie?"

He nodded, without turning toward her.

"Not often... sometimes...."

"If you do, for God's sake tell her I'm happy... happy as a king...
tell her you could see for yourself that I was...." His voice broke in
a little gasp. "I... I'll be damned if... if she shall ever be unhappy
about me... if I can help it...." The cigarette dropped from his
fingers, and with a sob he covered his face.

"Oh, poor Nelson--poor Nelson," Susy breathed. While their cab rattled
across the Place du Carrousel, and over the bridge, he continued to
sit beside her with hidden face. At last he pulled out a scented
handkerchief, rubbed his eyes with it, and groped for another cigarette.

"I'm all right! Tell her that, will you, Susy? There are some of our old
times I don't suppose I shall ever forget; but they make me feel kindly
to her, and not angry. I didn't know it would be so, beforehand--but it
is.... And now the thing's settled I'm as right as a trivet, and you can
tell her so.... Look here, Susy..." he caught her by the arm as the taxi
drew up at her hotel.... "Tell her I understand, will you? I'd rather
like her to know that...."

"I'll tell her, Nelson," she promised; and climbed the stairs alone to
her dreary room.

Susy's one fear was that Strefford, when he returned the next day,
should treat their talk of the previous evening as a fit of "nerves"
to be jested away. He might, indeed, resent her behaviour too deeply
to seek to see her at once; but his easygoing modern attitude toward
conduct and convictions made that improbable. She had an idea that
what he had most minded was her dropping so unceremoniously out of the
Embassy Dinner.

But, after all, why should she see him again? She had had enough of
explanations during the last months to have learned how seldom they
explain anything. If the other person did not understand at the first
word, at the first glance even, subsequent elucidations served only to
deepen the obscurity. certainly nothing good, and the men left their homes
ready to do anything with the dedication and solidarity of those
living in the countryside. Frightened by this movement, Batiste ran
towards his hut, bent many times to go unnoticed under or the slopes
of the big piles of straw. It was his home, with the door open and
illuminated in the center of the red black box packages from his family.
The dog sniffs it, and was the first to greet you. Teresa Roseta and
gave a shout of joy. - _Batiste, Are you tú_ - _ Stop! Stop !_... And all
rushed to him, at the entrance of the hut, under the old vine, through
whose branches worms shone as the stars of light. The mother, with his
fine ear and women concerned alarmed by the late husband's, had heard
far, far away, four shots, and his heart gave a roll, she said. The whole
family had been launched at the door, eager devouring the dark
horizon, convinced that the plain alarming explosions that had some
relationship with the father's absence. Locos happy to see him and
hear his words, not set in face smeared mud in their bare feet in the
dirty clothes and dripping mud.

He pushed inward. Rosette hanging from his neck, sighed lovingly,
her eyes still moist - _ Stop! Stop !_... But _pare_ could
not contain a face of suffering, a 'alas' drowned and painful.
An arm of Roseta was supported in his left shoulder in the same place
where he suffered the tear in the nail of steel, and which now feels
increasingly overwhelming weight. On entering the tent and give a
full view the lamp, women and children launched a cry of astonishment.

They saw the bloody shirt ... and outlaw its facade, as if you escape
from a prison out the latrine. Rosette and her mother bursts into
wailing. 'Holy Queen! ... And Lady Sovereign! You killed ?...»

But Batiste, who felt a pain in the shoulder increasingly unbearable,
drew from the disarray with their sullen gesture soon saw that he had.
Roseta, more lively, and tore the thick rough shirt to leave the uncovered
shoulder ... How much blood! The girl palideció, making efforts not
to faint. Batistet and small began to mourn and Teresa continued screaming
as if her husband is in the agony. But the hurt was not to suffer
lamentations and protested with rudeness.

Less crying: it was little, the evidence was that he could move his
arm, but felt increasingly more weight on the shoulder.

It was a scratch, a bullet grazes and nothing else. Felt that too strong
to be seriously injured. Let's see! ... water, rags, lint, a bottle
of arnica Teresa kept as miraculous remedy in your _estudi_ ... ¡Move!
If it was not all be looking for with the mouth open. Teresa turned
around his room, looking at the bottom of the purse, ripping paintings
sliding sales, while she washed and washed again in that cleft lip
bloody started as a fleshy sablazo the shoulder. The two women were
able to tackle as a bleeding wound blindfolded, Batiste and breathed
with satisfaction, as if they were already healed. worst blow fell
on him in his life. and devoted himself to preaching to the small they
were conservative. Everything they had seen, not a word to anyone. Were
matters that should be forgotten.

And the same is repeated to his wife, who spoke to alert the doctor.

It was worth as much as the attention of justice. Curándose and go it
alone, his skin did miracles. What mattered was that no one is mixed in
what happened down there. Who knows how those hours would be ... other!
While his wife helped him change his clothes and preparing the bed,
Batiste told him what happened. The woman opened her eyes with an
expression of horror, sighed thinking of the danger faced by her
husband and threw glances concern to the closed door of the hut,
as if it were to filter the Guardia Civil.

Batistet Meanwhile, with a early caution, took the shotgun and in
the light of the lamp dried, cleaned their guns, trying to erase any sign
of her recent use, it could happen. The night was bad for the whole
family. Batiste Camón delire in the _estudi_. He had fever, agitábase
furious, as if it still runs through the channel of the canal
chasing the man and his cries to scare the small and the two women,
who spent the night clear to clear, seated next to the bed, offering
each instant sugar water, the only home remedy that managed to invent.

His life seemed
as flat as a convalescent's first days after the fever has dropped.

The only thing he was sure of was that he was not going to remain in
the Hickses' employ: when they left Rome for Central Asia he had no
intention of accompanying them. The part of Mr. Buttles' successor was
becoming daily more intolerable to him, for the very reasons that had
probably made it most gratifying to Mr. Buttles. To be treated by Mr.
and Mrs. Hicks as a paid oracle, a paraded and petted piece of property,
was a good deal more distasteful than he could have imagined any
relation with these kindly people could be. And since their aspirations
had become frankly social he found his task, if easier, yet far less
congenial than during his first months with them. He preferred patiently
explaining to Mrs. Hicks, for the hundredth time, that Sassanian and
Saracenic were not interchangeable terms, to unravelling for her the
genealogies of her titled guests, and reminding her, when she "seated"
her dinner-parties, that Dukes ranked higher than Princes. No--the job
was decidedly intolerable; and he would have to look out for another
means of earning his living. But that was not what he had really got
away to think about. He knew he should never starve; he had even begun
to believe again in his book. What he wanted to think of was Susy--or
rather, it was Susy that he could not help thinking of, on whatever
train of thought he set out.

Again and again he fancied he had established a truce with the past: had
come to terms--the terms of defeat and failure with that bright enemy
called happiness. And, in truth, he had reached the point of definitely
knowing that he could never return to the kind of life that he and Susy
had embarked on. It had been the tragedy, of their relation that loving
her roused in him ideals she could never satisfy. He had fallen in
love with her because she was, like himself, amused, unprejudiced and
disenchanted; and he could not go on loving her unless she ceased to
be all these things. From that circle there was no issue, and in it he
desperately revolved.

If he had not heard such persistent rumours of her re-marriage to Lord
Altringham he might have tried to see her again; but, aware of the
danger and the hopelessness of a meeting, he was, on the whole, glad to
have a reason for avoiding it. Such, at least, he honestly supposed to
be his state of mind until he found himself, as on this occasion, free
to follow out his thought to its end. That end, invariably, was Susy;
not the bundle of qualities and defects into which his critical
spirit had tried to sort her out, but the soft blur of identity, of
personality, of eyes, hair, mouth, laugh, tricks of speech and gesture,
that were all so solely and profoundly her own, and yet so mysteriously
independent of what she might do, say, think, in crucial circumstances.
He remembered her once saying to him: "After all, you were right
when you wanted me to be your mistress," and the indignant stare of
incredulity with which he had answered her. Yet in these hours it
was the palpable image of her that clung closest, till, as invariably
happened, his vision came full circle, and feeling her on his breast he
wanted her also in his soul.

Well--such all-encompassing loves were the rarest of human experiences;
he smiled at his presumption in wanting no other. Wearily he turned, and
tramped homeward through the winter twilight....

At the door of the hotel he ran across the Prince of Teutoburg's
aide-de-camp. They had not met for some days, and Nick had a vague
feeling that if the Prince's matrimonial designs took definite shape he
himself was not likely, after all, to be their chosen exponent. He
had surprised, now and then, a certain distrustful coldness under the
Princess Mother's cordial glance, and had concluded that she perhaps
suspected him of being an obstacle to her son's aspirations. He had no
idea of playing that part, but was not sorry to appear to; for he was
sincerely attached to Coral Hicks, and hoped for her a more human fate
than that of becoming Prince Anastasius's consort.

This evening, however, he was struck by the beaming alacrity of the
aide-de-camp's greeting. Whatever cloud had hung between them had
lifted: the Teutoburg clan, for one reason or another, no longer feared
or distrusted him. The change was conveyed in a mere hand-pressure,
a brief exchange of words, for the aide-de-camp was hastening after a
well-known dowager of the old Roman world, whom he helped into a large
coronetted brougham which looked as if it had been extracted, for
some ceremonial purpose, from a museum of historic vehicles. It was a
theme for many hours. He knew the country as if born to it. Valencia to
surrender to Marshal Suchet, he had taken prisoner, with a few
thousand more at a big city: Toulouse in France.

And mixed in the conversation, horribly disfigured, the French words
that could still remember after so many years.

What a country! There are men with some white hats and mats, Casaca
color neck until the neck, high boots like the cavalry, and women
with skirts and sleeves of a flute, so narrow, that they mark all
that remains inside.

And still speaking of the costumes and customs of the time of the
Empire, imagining all that remained and the France of today as it
was early in the century.

On the threshold Eldorada gasped out
emotionally: "You'll find her looking lovely--" and jerked away with a
sob as he entered.

Coral Hicks was never lovely: but she certainly looked unusually
handsome. Perhaps it was the long dress of black velvet which, outlined
against a shaded lamp, made her strong build seem slenderer, or perhaps
the slight flush on her dusky cheek: a bloom of womanhood hung upon
her which she made no effort to dissemble. - Translation of Japanese
Shiduo Kasai. Tokyo. IBAÑEZ KESSAKUSHIU Japanese Translation .--
Mrs. Nakagawa. Tokyo.

RODNOE MORE .-- Translated by M. Watson. Leningrad.

Zemli DISE .-- Translated by M. Watson. Moscou. KOROLAWA CALAFIA
.-- Translation MB"That's
going to be my future job."

"To look splendid?"

"Yes."

"And wear a crown?"

"And wear a crown...."

They continued to consider each other without speaking. Nick's heart
contracted with pity and perplexity.

"Oh, Coral--it's not decided?"

She scrutinized him for a last penetrating moment; then she looked away.
"I'm never long deciding."

He hesitated, choking with contradictory impulses, and afraid to
formulate any, lest they should either mislead or pain her.

"Why didn't you tell me?" he questioned lamely; and instantly perceived
his blunder.

She sat down, and looked up at him under brooding lashes--had he ever
noticed the thickness of her lashes before?

Yet he well knew that God had not done more to defend itself, which
wanted to keep them without causing harm to anyone.

What fault was found in conflict with some people who, like Mr.

Joaquin said the teacher, were very good, but very beasts ...
"It doesn't matter if I have."

