Produced by D Alexander, Martin Pettit and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive)


"NO CLUE!"

_A Mystery Story_

BY

JAMES HAY, JR.

AUTHOR OF "THE WINNING CLUE," "THE MELWOOD MYSTERY"


[Illustration: Publisher's logo]


NEW YORK
DODD, MEAD AND COMPANY
1920


COPYRIGHT, 1920
BY DODD, MEAD AND COMPANY, INC.


TO
WILLIAM ("BUCK") HAY


CONTENTS


CHAPTER                                 PAGE

    I. THE GREY ENVELOPE                   1

   II. THE WOMAN ON THE LAWN               8

  III. THE UNEXPECTED WITNESS             20

   IV. HASTINGS IS RETAINED               35

    V. THE INTERVIEW WITH MRS. BRACE      48

   VI. ACTION BY THE SHERIFF              62

  VII. THE HOSTILITY OF MR. SLOANE        75

 VIII. THE MAN WHO RAN AWAY               91

   IX. THE BREAKING DOWN OF WEBSTER      103

    X. THE WHISPERED CONFERENCE          122

   XI. MOTIVES REVEALED                  138

  XII. HENDRICKS REPORTS                 151

 XIII. MRS. BRACE BEGINS                 161

  XIV. MR. CROWN FORMS AN ALLIANCE       177

   XV. IN ARTHUR SLOANE'S ROOM           195

  XVI. THE BRIBE                         213

 XVII. "THE WHOLE TRUTH"                 224

XVIII. THE MAN WHO RODE AWAY             238

  XIX. "PURSUIT!"                        246

   XX. DENIAL OF THE CHARGE              261

  XXI. "AMPLE EVIDENCE"                  273


"NO CLUE!"


I

THE GREY ENVELOPE


Catherine Brace walked slowly from the mantel-piece to the open window
and back again. Within the last hour she had done that many times,
always to halt before the mantel and gaze at the oblong, grey envelope
that leaned against the clock. Evidently, she regarded it as a powerful
agency. An observer would have perceived that she saw tremendous things
come out of it--and that she considered them with mingled satisfaction
and defiance.

Her attitude, however, betrayed no hint of hesitation. Rather, the
fixity of her gaze and the intensity of her mental concentration threw
into high relief the hardness of her personality. She was singularly
devoid of that quality which is generally called feminine softness.

And she was a forceful woman. She had power. It was in her lean,
high-shouldered, ungraceful figure. It was in her thin, mobile lips and
her high-bridged nose with its thin, clean-cut nostrils. She impressed
herself upon her environment. Standing there at the mantel, her hands
clasped behind her, she was so caught up by the possibilities of the
future that she succeeded in imparting to the grey envelope an almost
animate quality.

She became aware once more of voices in the next room: a man's light
baritone in protest, followed by the taunt of her daughter's laugh.
Although she left the mantel with lithe, swift step, it was with unusual
deliberation that she opened the communicating door.

Her voice was free of excitement when, ignoring her daughter's caller,
she said:

"Mildred, just a moment, please."

Mildred came in and closed the door. Her mother, now near the window
across the room, looked first at her and then at the grey envelope.

"I thought," Mrs. Brace said, "you'd forgotten you were going to mail
it."

"Why didn't you mail it yourself?" The tone of that was cool insolence.

Mother and daughter were strikingly alike--hair piled high in a wide
wave above the forehead; black eyes too restless, but of that gleaming
brilliance which heralds a refusal to grow old. So far, however, the
daughter's features had not assumed an aspect of sharpness, like the
mother's. One would have appraised the older woman
vindictive--malevolent, possibly.

But in the younger face the mouth greatly softened, almost concealed,
this effect of calculating hardness. Mildred Brace's lips had a softness
of line, a vividness of colouring that indicated emotional depths
utterly foreign to her mother.

They bore themselves now as if they commented on a decision already
reached, a momentous step to which they had given immense consideration.

Though still preserving the same style and materials, since they have
adopted from the Americans the use of boards they have learned to
construct all around the wall of the wigwam a series of little state
rooms, if I may so call them, which are snugly boarded up and
furnished with bunks inside.

This enables every family in these immense patriarchal lodges to
disrobe and retire with some regard to decency, which could not be
done in the one common room of the old style wigwam."

[Footnote: ib., p. 163.]

Again: "The Se-nel, together with three other petty tribes, mere villages,
occupy that broad expanse of Russian River Valley on one side of
which now stands the American village of Senel.

Among them we find unmistakably developed that patriarchal system
which appears to prevail all along Russian River.

They construct immense dome-shaped or oblong lodges of willow poles
an inch or two in diameter, woven in square lattice-work, securely
lashed and thatched.

In each one of these live several families, sometimes twenty or
thirty persons, including all who are blood relations.

Each wigwam, therefore, is a pueblo, a law unto itself; and yet these
lodges are grouped in villages, some of which formerly contained
hundreds of inhabitants."

[Footnote: ib., p. 168.]
I cannot find that Mr. Powers mentions the practice of
communism in these households, but the fact seems probable.

Their usages in the matter of hospitality are much the same as in
the other tribes.

Their principal food was salmon, acorn-flour bread, game, kamas,
and berries.

They were, without pottery, cooked in ground ovens, and also in
water-tight baskets by means of heated stones.

A brief reference may be made to the skin lodge of the Kutchin or
Louchoux of the Yukon and Peel Rivers.

[Illustration: Fig. 5.--Kutchin Lodge.]
This simple structure, the ground plan and elevation of which were
taken from the Smithsonian Report, is thus described by Mr.

Strachan Jones: [Footnote: Report for 1866, p. 321.] "Deer-skins are
dressed with the hair on, and sewed together, forming two large
rolls, which are stretched over a frame of bent poles. The lodge is
nearly elliptical, about twelve or thirteen feet in diameter
and six feet high, very similar to a tea-cup turned over. The door is
about four feet high, and is simply a deer-skin fastened above and
hanging down.
The hole to allow the smoke to escape is about four feet in diameter.

Snow is heaped up outside the edges of the lodge and pine brush spread
on the ground inside, the snow having been previously shoveled off with
snow-shoes.

The fire is made in the middle of the lodge, and one or more families,
as the case may be, live on each side of the fire, every one having
his or her particular place."

[Footnote: ib., p. 322.] He further remarks that "they have no pottery,"
and that they boil water "by means of stones heated red hot and
thrown into the kettle."

[Footnote: ib., p. 321.]
The principal fact to be noticed is that the lodge is comparted into stalls
open on the central space, in the midst of which is the fire-pit,
evidently for the accommodation of more families than one.

This arrangement of the interior will reappear in numerous other cases.
The Kutchin must be classed as savages, although near the close
of that condition.

The tribes of the valley of the Columbia lived more or less in villages,
but, like the tribes of California, were without horticulture and
without pottery.

But they found an abundant subsistence in the shell-fish of the
coast, and in the myriads of fish in the Columbia and its tributaries.

They also subsisted upon kamash and other bread roots of the prairies,
which they cooked in ground ovens, and upon berries and game.

They were expert boatmen and fishermen, manufactured water-tight
baskets, implements of wood, stone, and bone, and used the bow and
arrow.

As another quite remarkable fact, they used plank in their houses,
made by splitting logs with stone and elk-horn chisels.

"He
can't refuse."

Her mother made no comment.

Mildred went into the living room.

"Gene," she said, with that indifference of tone which a woman employs
toward a man she despises, "I'm going down to mail this."

"Well, I'll swear!" he quarrelled sullenly. "Been in there all this time
writing to him!"

"Yes! Look at it!" she taunted viciously, and waved the envelope before
his eyes. "Sloanehurst!"

Taking up his hat, he went with her to the elevator.


II

THE WOMAN ON THE LAWN


Mr. Jefferson Hastings, unsuspecting that he was about to be confronted
with the most brutal crime in all his experience, regretted having come
to "Sloanehurst." He disapproved of himself unreservedly. Clad in an
ample, antique night-shirt, he stood at a window of the guest-room
assigned to him and gazed over the steel rims of his spectacles into the
hot, rainy night. His real vision, however, made no attempt to pierce
the outer darkness. His eyes were turned inward, upon himself, in
derision of his behaviour during the past three hours.

A kindly, reticent gentleman, who looked much older than his fifty-three
years, he made it his habit to listen rather than talk. His wide fame as
a criminologist and consulting detective had implanted no egotism in
him. He abhorred the spotlight.

But tonight Judge Wilton, by skilful use of query, suggestion and
reminder, had tempted him into talking "shop." He had been lured into
the rôle of monologuist for the benefit of his host, Arthur Sloane. He
had talked brilliantly, at length, in detail, holding his three hearers
in spellbound and fascinated interest while he discoursed on crimes
which he had probed and criminals whom he had known.

Not that he _thought_ he had talked brilliantly! By no means! He was
convinced that nine-tenths of the interest manifested in his remarks had
been dictated by politeness. Old Hastings was just that sort of person;
he discounted himself. He was in earnest, therefore, in his present
self-denunciation. He sighed, remembering the volume of his discourse,
the awful length of time in which he had monopolized the conversation.

But his modesty was not his only admirable characteristic. He had, also,
a dependable sense of humour. It came to his relief now--he thought of
his host, a chuckle throttling the beginnings of a second sigh deep down
in his throat.

This was not the first time that Arthur Broughton Sloane had provoked a
chuckle, although, for him, life was a house of terror, a torture
chamber constructed with fiendish ingenuity. Mr. Sloane suffered from
"nerves." He was spending his declining years in the arduous but
surprisingly successful task of being wretched, irritable and
ill-at-ease.

The variety of his agonies was equalled only by the alacrity with which
he tested every cure or remedy of which he happened to hear. He agreed
enthusiastically with his expensive physicians that he was neurasthenic,
psychasthenic and neurotic.

His eyes were weak; his voice was weak; his spirit was weak. He shivered
all day with terror at the idea of not sleeping at night. Every evening
he quivered with horror at the thought of not waking up next morning.
And yet, despite these absorbing, although not entirely delightful,
preoccupations, Mr. Sloane was not without an object in life.

In fact, he had two objects in life: the happiness of his daughter,
Lucille, and the study of crime and criminals. The latter interest had
brought Hastings to the Sloane country home in Virginia. Judge Wilton,
an old friend of the wrecked and wealthy Mr. Sloane, had met the
detective on the street in Washington and urged:

"Go down to Sloanehurst and spend Saturday night. I'll be there when you
arrive. Sloane's got his mind set on seeing you; and you won't regret
it. His library on criminology will be a revelation, even to you."

And Hastings, largely because he shrank from seeming ungracious, had
accepted Mr. Sloane's subsequent invitation.

Climbing now into the old-fashioned four-poster bed, he thought again of
his conversation-spree and longed for self-justification. He sat up,
sheetless, reflecting:

"As a week-ender, I'm a fine old chatter-box!--But young Webster got me!
What did he say?--'The cleverer the criminal, the easier to run him
down. The thug, acting on the spur of the moment, with a blow in the
dark and a getaway through the night, leaves no trace behind him. Your
"smart criminal" always overreaches himself.'--A pretty theory, but
wild. Anyway, it made me forget myself; I talked my old fool head off."

He felt himself blush.

"Wish I'd let Wilton do the disproving; he was anxious enough."

A mental picture of Sloane consoled him once more.

"Silk socks and gingham gumption!" he thought. "But he's honest in his
talk about being interested in crime. The man loves crime!--Good thing
he's got plenty of money."

He fell asleep, in a kind of ruminative growl:

"Made a fool of myself--babbling about what _I_ remembered--what _I_
thought! I'll go back to Washington--in the morning."

Judge Wilton's unsteady voice, supplemented by a rattling of the
doorknob, roused him. He had thrust one foot out of bed when Wilton came
into the room.

"Quick! Come on, man!" the judge instructed, and hurried into the hall.

"What's wrong?" Hastings demanded, reaching for his spectacles.

Wilton, on his way down the stairs, flung back:

"A woman hurt--outside."

From the hall below came Mr. Sloane's high-pitched, complaining tones:

"Unfathomable angels! What do you say?--Who?"

Drawing on shoes and trousers, the detective overtook his host on the
front verandah and followed him down the steps and around the northeast
corner of the house. He noticed that Sloane carried in one hand an
electric torch and in the other a bottle of smelling salts. It was no
longer raining.

Rounding the corner, they saw, scarcely fifteen yards from the
bay-window of the ballroom, the upturned face of a woman who lay
prostrate on the lawn. Lights had been turned on in the house, making a
glow which cut through the starless night.

The woman did not move. Judge Wilton was in the act of kneeling beside
her.

"Hold on!" Hastings called out. "Don't disturb her--if she's dead."

"She is dead!" said Wilton.

"Who is she?" The detective, trying to find signs of life, put his hand
over her heart.

"I don't know," Wilton answered the question. "Do you, Sloane?"

"Of course, I don't!"

Hastings said afterwards that Sloane's reply expressed astonished
resentment that he should be suspected of knowing anybody vulgar enough
to be murdered on his lawn.

The detective drew back his hand. His fingers were dark with blood.

At that moment Berne Webster, Lucille Sloane's fiancé, came from the
rear of the house, announcing breathlessly:

"No 'phone connection--this time of night, judge.--It's past
midnight.--I sent chauffeur--Lally--for the sheriff."

Hastings stood up, his first, cursory examination concluded.

"No doubt about it," he said. "She's dead.--Bring a blanket, somebody!"

Mr. Sloane's nerves had the best of him by this time. He trembled like
a man with a chill, rattling the bottle of smelling salts against the
metal end of his electric torch. He had on slippers and a light dressing
gown over his pajamas.

Wilton was fully dressed, young Webster collarless but wearing a black,
light-weight lounging jacket. Hastings was struck with the different
degrees of their dress, or undress.

"Who found her?" he asked, looking at Webster.

"Judge Wilton--and I," said Webster, so short of breath that his chest
heaved.

"How long ago?"

Wilton answered that:

"A few minutes, hardly five minutes. I ran in to call you and Sloane."

"And Mr.--you, Mr. Webster?"

"The judge told me to--to get the sheriff--by telephone."

Hastings knelt again over the woman's body.

"Here, Mr. Sloane," he ordered, "hold that torch closer, will you?"

Mr. Sloane found compliance impossible. He could not steady his hand
sufficiently.

"Hold that torch, judge," Hastings prompted.

"It's knocked me out--completely," Sloane said, surrendering the torch
to Wilton.

Webster, the pallor still on his face, a look of horror in his eyes,
stood on the side of the body opposite the detective. At brief
intervals he raised first one foot, then the other, clear of the ground
and set it down again. He was unconscious of making any movement at all.

Hastings, thoroughly absorbed in the work before him, went about it
swiftly, with now and then brief, murmured comment on what he did and
saw. Although his ample night-shirt, stuffed into his equally baggy
trousers, contributed nothing but comicality to his appearance, the
others submitted without question to his domination. There was about him
suddenly an atmosphere of power that impressed even the little group of
awe-struck servants who stood a few feet away.

"Stabbed," he said, after he had run his hands over the woman's figure;
"died instantly--must have. Got her heart.--Young--not over twenty-five,
would you say?--Not dead long.--Anybody call a doctor?"

"I told Lally to stop by Dr. Garnet's house and send him--at once,"
Webster said, his voice low, and broken. "He's the coroner, too."

Hastings continued his examination. The brief pause that ensued was
broken by a woman's voice:

"Pauline! Pauline!"

The call came from one of the upstairs windows. Hearing it, a woman in
the servant group hurried into the house.

Webster groaned: "My God!"

"Frantic fiends! It gets worse and worse!" Sloane objected shrilly. "My
nerves! And Lucille's annoyed--shocked!"

He held the smelling bottle to his nose, breathing deeply.

"Here! Take this!" Hastings directed, and put up his hand abruptly.

Sloane had so gone to pieces that the movement frightened him. He
stepped back in such obvious terror that a hoarse guffaw of involuntary
ridicule escaped one of the servants. The detective, finding that his
kneeling posture made it difficult to put his handkerchief back into his
trousers pocket, had thrust it toward Sloane. That gentleman having so
suddenly removed himself out of reach, Hastings stuck the handkerchief
into Judge Wilton's coat-pocket.

Arthur Sloane, the detective said later, never forgave him that
unexpected wave of the handkerchief--and the servant's ridiculing laugh.

Hastings looked up to Wilton.

"Did you find any weapon?"

"I didn't look--didn't take time."

"Neither did I," young Webster added.

Hastings, disregarding the wet grass, was on his hands and knees,
searching. He accomplished a complete circuit of the body, his
round-shouldered, stooping figure making grotesque, elephantine shadows
under the light of the torch as he moved about slowly, not trusting his
eyes, but feeling with his hands every inch of the smallest, half-lit
spaces.

Nobody else took part in the search. Having accepted his leadership from
the outset, they seemed to take it for granted that he needed no help.
Mentally benumbed by the horror of the tragedy, they stood there in the
quiet, summer night, barren of ideas. They were like children, waiting
to be instructed.

Hastings stood erect, pulling and hauling at his trousers.

"Can't find a knife or anything," he said. "Glad I can't. Hope he took
it with him."

"Why?" asked Sloane, through chattering teeth.

"May help us to find him--may be a clue in the end."

He was silent a moment, squinting under the rims of his spectacles,
looking down at the figure of the dead woman. He had already covered the
face with the hat she had worn, a black straw sailor; but neither he nor
the others found it easy to forget the peculiar and forbidding
expression the features wore, even in death. It was partly fear, partly
defiance--as if her last conscious thought had been a flitting look
into the future, an exulting recognition of the certain consequences of
the blow that had struck her down.

Put into words, it might have been: "You've murdered me, but you'll pay
for it--terribly!"

A servant handed Hastings the blanket he had ordered. He looked toward
the sky.

"I don't think it will rain any more," he said. "And it's best to leave
things as they are until the coroner arrives.--He'll be here soon?"

"Should get here in half an hour or so," Judge Wilton informed him.

The detective arranged the blanket so that it covered the prone form
completely, leaving the hat over the face as he had first placed it.
With the exception of the hat, he had disturbed no part of the apparel.
Even the folds of the raincoat, which fell away from the body and showed
the rain-soaked black skirt, he left as he had found them. The white
shirtwaist, also partly exposed now, was dry.

"Anybody move her hat before I came out?" he asked; "you, judge; or you,
Mr. Webster?"

They had not touched it, they said; it was on the grass, beside her
head, when they discovered the body, and they had left it there.

Again he was silent, brows drawn together as he stood over the murdered
woman. Finally, he raised his head swiftly and, taking each in turn,
searched sharply the countenances of the three men before him.

"Does--didn't anybody here know this woman?" he asked.

Berne Webster left his place at the opposite side of the body and came
close to Hastings.

"I know who she is," he said, his voice lower even than before, as if he
wished to keep that information from the servants.

Hastings' keen scrutiny had in it no intimation of surprise. Waiting for
Webster to continue, he was addressed by the shivering Mr. Sloane:

"Mr. Hast--Mr. Hastings, take charge of--of things. Will you? You know
about these things."

The detective accepted the suggestion.

"Suppose we get at what we know about it--what we all know. Let's go
inside." He turned to the servants: "Stay here until you're called. See
that nothing is disturbed, nothing touched."

He led the way into the house. Sloane, near collapse, clung to one of
Judge Wilton's broad shoulders. It was young Webster who, as the little
procession passed the hatrack in the front hall, caught up a raincoat
and threw it over the half-clad Hastings.


III

THE UNEXPECTED WITNESS


In the library Hastings turned first to Judge Wilton for a description
of the discovery of the body. The judge was in better condition than the
others for connected narrative, Arthur Sloane had sunk into a morris
chair, where he sighed audibly and plied himself by fits and starts with
the aroma from the bottle of smelling salts. Young Webster, still
breathing as if he had been through exhausting physical endeavour, stood
near the table in the centre of the room, mechanically shifting his
weight from foot to foot.

Wilton, seated half-across the room from Hastings, drew, absently, on a
dead cigar-stump. A certain rasping note in his voice was his only
remaining symptom of shock. He had the stern calmness of expression that
is often seen in the broad, irregularly-featured face in early middle
age.

"I can tell you in very few words," he said, addressing the detective
directly. "We all left this room, you'll remember, at eleven o'clock. I
found my bedroom uncomfortable, too warm. Besides, it had stopped
raining. When I noticed that, I decided to go out and smoke my
good-night cigar. This is what's left of it."

He put a finger to the unlighted stump still between his lips.

"What time did you go out?" asked Hastings.

"Probably, a quarter of an hour after I'd gone upstairs--fifteen or
twenty minutes past eleven, I should guess."

"How did you go out--by what door?"

"The front door. I left it unlocked, but not open. At first I paced up
and down, on the south side of the house, under the trees. It was
reasonably light there then--that is to say, the clouds had thinned a
little, and, after my eyes had got accustomed to it, I had no trouble in
avoiding the trees and shrubbery.

"Then a cloud heavier than the others came up, I suppose. Anyway, it was
much darker. There wasn't a light in the house, except in my room and
Berne Webster's. Yours was out, I remember. I passed by the front of the
house then, and went around to the north side. It was darker there, I
thought, than it had been under the trees on the south side."

"How long had you been out then, altogether?"

"Thirty or forty minutes." He looked at his watch. "It's a quarter past
twelve now. Let me see. I found the body a few minutes after I changed
over to the north side. I guess I found it about five minutes before
midnight--certainly not more than twenty minutes ago."

Hastings betrayed his impatience only by squinting under his spectacles
and down the line of his nose, eying Wilton closely.

"All right, judge! Let's have it."

"I was going along slowly, very slowly, not doing much more than feeling
my way with my feet on the close-shaven grass. It was the darkest night
I ever saw. Literally, I couldn't have seen my hand in front of me.

"I had decided to turn about and go indoors when I was conscious of some
movement, or slight sound, directly in front of me, and downward, at my
feet. I got that impression."

"What movement? You mean the sound of a fall?"

"No; not that exactly."

"A footstep?"

"No. I hadn't any definite idea what sort of noise it was. I did think
that, perhaps, it was a dog or a cat. Just then my foot came in contact
with something soft. I stooped down instinctively, immediately.

"At that moment, that very second, a light flashed on in Arthur's
bedroom. That's between this room and the big ballroom--on this floor,
of course. That light threw a long, illuminating shaft into the murky
darkness, the end of it coming just far enough to touch me and--what I
found--the woman's body. I saw it by that light before I had time to
touch it with my hand."

The judge stopped and drew heavily on his dead cigar.

"All right. See anything else?" Hastings urged.

"Yes; I saw Berne Webster. He had made the noise which attracted my
attention."

"How do you know that?"

"He must have. He was stooping down, too, on the other side of the body,
facing me, when the light went on----"

Sloane, twisting nervously in his chair, cut into Wilton's narrative.

"I can put this much straight," he said in shrill complaint: "I turned
on the light you're talking about. I hadn't been able to sleep."

"Let's have this, one at a time, if you don't mind, Mr. Sloane," the
detective suggested, watching Webster.

The young man, staring with fascinated intensity at Judge Wilton, seemed
to experience some new horror as he listened.

"He was on the other side of it," the judge continued, "and practically
in the same position that I was. We faced each other across the body. I
think that describes the discovery, as you call it. We immediately
examined the woman, looking for the wound, and found it. When we saw she
was dead, we came in to wake you--and try to get a doctor. I told Berne
to do that."

During the last few sentences Hastings had been walking slowly from his
chair to the library door and back, his hands gouged deep into his
trouser-pockets, folds of his night-shirt protruding from and falling
over the waistband of the trousers, the raincoat hanging baggily from
his shoulders. Ludicrous as the costume was, however, the old man so
dominated them still that none of them, not even Wilton, questioned his
authority.

And yet, the thing he was doing should have appealed to them as
noteworthy. A man of less power could not have accomplished it. Coming
from a sound sleep to the scene of a murder, he had literally picked up
these men who had discovered it and who must be closely touched by it,
had overcome their agitation, had herded them into the house and, with
amazing promptness, had set about the task of getting from them the
stories of what they knew and what they had done.

Appreciating his opportunity, he had determined to bring to light at
once everything they knew. He devoted sudden attention now to Webster,
whom he knew by reputation--a lawyer thirty years of age, brilliant in
the criminal courts, and at present striving for a foothold in the more
remunerative ranks of civil practice. He had never been introduced to
him, however, before meeting him at Sloanehurst.

"Who touched that body first--Mr. Webster?" he demanded, his slow
promenade uninterrupted as he kept his eyes on the lawyer's.

"Judge--I don't know, I believe," Webster replied uncertainly. "Who did,
judge?"

"I want your recollection," Hastings insisted, kindly in spite of the
unmistakable command of his tone. "That's why I asked you."

"Why?"

"For one thing, it might go far toward showing who was really first on
the scene."

"I see; but I really don't remember. I'm not sure that either of us
touched the body--just then. I think we both drew back, instinctively,
when the light flashed on. Afterwards, of course, we both touched
her--looking for signs of life."

The detective came to a standstill in front of Webster.

"Who reached the body first? Can you say?"

"No. I don't think either was first. We got there together."

"Simultaneously?"

"Yes."

"But I'm overlooking something. How did you happen to be there?"

"That's simple enough," Webster said, his brows drawn together, his eyes
toward the floor, evidently making great effort to omit no detail of
what had occurred. "I went to my room when we broke up here, at eleven.
I read for a while. I got tired of that--it was close and hot. Besides,
I never go to bed before one in the morning--that is, practically never.
And I wasn't sleepy.

"I looked at my watch. It was a quarter to twelve. Like the judge, I
noticed that it had stopped raining. I thought I'd have a better night's
sleep if I got out and cooled off thoroughly. My room, the one I have
this time, is close to the back stairway. I went down that, and out the
door on the north side."

"Were you smoking?" Hastings put the query sharply, as if to test the
narrator's nerves.

Webster's frown deepened.

"No. But I had cigarettes and matches with me. I intended to smoke--and
walk about."

"But what happened?"

"It was so much darker than I had thought that I groped along with my
feet, much as Judge Wilton did. I was making my way toward the front
verandah. I went on, sliding my feet on the wet grass."

"Any reason for doing that, do you remember? Are there any obstructions
there, anything but smooth, open lawn?"

"No. It was merely an instinctive act--in pitch dark, you know."

Webster, his eyes still toward the floor, waited for another question.
Not getting it, he resumed:

"My foot struck something soft. I thought it was a wet cloak, something
of that sort, left out in the rain. I hadn't heard a thing. And I had no
premonition of anything wrong. I bent over, with nothing more than sheer
idle curiosity, to put my hand on whatever the thing was. And just then
the light went on in Mr. Sloane's bedroom. The judge and I were looking
at each other across somebody lying on the ground, face upward."

"Either of you cry out?"

"No."

"Say anything?"

"Not much."

"Well, what?"

"I remember the judge said, 'Is she dead?' I said, 'How is she hurt?'
We didn't say much while we were looking for the wound."

"Did you tell Judge Wilton you knew her?"

"No. There wasn't time for any explanation--specially."

"But you do know her?"

"I told you that, sir, outside--just now."

"All right. Who is she?" Hastings put that query carelessly, in a way
which might have meant that he had heard the most important part of the
young lawyer's story. That impression was heightened by his beginning
again to pace the floor.

"Her name's Mildred Brace," replied Webster, moistening his lips with
his tongue. "She was my stenographer for eight months."

The detective drew up sharply.

"When?"

"Until two weeks ago."

"She resign?"

"Yes. No--I discharged her."

"What for?"

"Incompetence."

"I don't understand that exactly. You mean you employed her eight months
although she was incompetent?"

"That's pretty bald," Webster objected. "Her incompetence came, rather,
from temperament. Their father, who had until this moment prospered in
all ways, suddenly lost every ship he had upon the sea, either by
dint of pirates, shipwreck, or fire.

Then he heard that his clerks in distant countries, whom he trusted
entirely, had proved unfaithful; and at last from great wealth he fell
into the direst poverty.

All that he had left was a little house in a desolate place at least a
hundred leagues from the town in which he had lived, and to this he was
forced to retreat with his children, who were in despair at the idea
of leading such a different life. Indeed, the daughters at first hoped
that their friends, who had been so numerous while they were rich,
would insist on their staying in their houses now they no longer
possessed one.

But they soon found that they were left alone, and that their former
friends even attributed their misfortunes to their own extravagance,
and showed no intention of offering them any help.

So nothing was left for them but to take their departure to the cottage,
which stood in the midst of a dark forest, and seemed to be the most
dismal place upon the face of the earth.

As they were too poor to have any servants, the girls had to work hard,
like peasants, and the sons, for their part, cultivated the fields
to earn their living.

Roughly clothed, and living in the simplest way, the girls regretted
unceasingly the luxuries and amusements of their former life; only the
youngest tried to be brave and cheerful.

She had been as sad as anyone when misfortune first overtook her father,
but, soon recovering her natural gaiety, she set to work to make the
best of things, to amuse her father and brothers as well as she
could, and to try to persuade her sisters to join her in dancing and
singing. But they would do nothing of the sort, and, because she was
not as doleful as themselves, they declared that this miserable life was
all she was fit for.

But she was really far prettier and cleverer than they were; indeed, she
was so lovely that she was always called Beauty. After two years,
when they were all beginning to get used to their new life, something
happened to disturb their tranquillity. Their father received the news
that one of his ships, which he had believed to be lost, had come safely
into port with a rich cargo.
All the sons and daughters at once thought that their poverty was
at an end, and wanted to set out directly for the town; but their
father, who was more prudent, begged them to wait a little, and,
though it was harvest-time, and he could ill be spared, determined
to go himself first, to make inquiries.

Only the youngest daughter had any doubt but that they would soon
again be as rich as they were before, or at least rich enough to
live comfortably in some town where they would find amusement and
gay companions once more.

So they all loaded their father with commissions for jewels and dresses
which it would have taken a fortune to buy; only Beauty, feeling sure
that it was of no use, did not ask for anything.

Her father, noticing her silence, said: "And what shall I bring for you,
Beauty?"

"The only thing I wish for is to see you come home safely," she
answered.

But this reply vexed her sisters, who fancied she was blaming them for
having asked for such costly things.

Her father, however, was pleased, but as he thought that at her age
she certainly ought to like pretty presents, he told her to choose
something.

"Well, dear father," she said, "as you insist upon it, I beg that you
will bring me a rose. I have not seen one since we came here, and I
love them so much."
So the merchant set out and reached the town as quickly as possible,
but only to find that his former companions, believing him to be
dead, had divided between them the goods which the ship had brought;
and after six months of trouble and expense he found himself as
poor as when he started, having been able to recover only just
enough to pay the cost of his journey.

To make matters worse, he was obliged to leave the town in the most
terrible weather, so that by the time he was within a few leagues
of his home he was almost exhausted with cold and fatigue.

Though he knew it would take some hours to get through the forest, he
was so anxious to be at his journey's end that he resolved to go on; but
night overtook him, and the deep snow and bitter frost made it impossible
for his horse to carry him any further. Not a house was to be seen; the
only shelter he could get was the hollow trunk of a great tree,
and there he crouched all the night, which seemed to him the longest
he had ever known.

In spite of his weariness the howling of the wolves kept him awake, and
even when at last the day broke he was not much better off, for the falling
snow had covered up every path, and he did not know which way to
turn.

[Illustration]

At length he made out some sort of track, and though at the beginning
it was so rough and slippery that he fell down more than once, it
presently became easier, and led him into an avenue of trees which
ended in a splendid castle.

It seemed to the merchant very strange that no snow had fallen in the
avenue, which was entirely composed of orange trees, covered with
flowers and fruit.

When he reached the first court of the castle he saw before him a
flight of agate steps, and went up them, and passed through several
splendidly furnished rooms.

The pleasant warmth of the air revived him, and he felt very hungry; but
there seemed to be nobody in all this vast and splendid palace whom
he could ask to give him something to eat. Deep silence reigned everywhere,
and at last, tired of roaming through empty rooms and galleries, he
stopped in a room smaller than the rest, where a clear fire was burning
and a couch was drawn up cosily close to it.

Thinking that this must be prepared for someone who was expected, he
sat down to wait till he should come, and very soon fell into a sweet
sleep.

When his extreme hunger wakened him after several hours, he was
still alone; but a little table, upon which was a good dinner, had
been drawn up close to him, and, as he had eaten nothing for
twenty-four hours, he lost no time in beginning his meal, hoping
that he might soon have an opportunity of thanking his considerate
entertainer, whoever it might be.

But no one appeared, and even after another long sleep, from which he
awoke completely refreshed, there was no sign of anybody, though
a fresh meal of dainty cakes and fruit was prepared upon the little
table at his elbow.

Being naturally timid, the silence began to terrify him, and he
resolved to search once more through all the rooms; but it was of
no use.

Not even a servant was to be seen; there was no sign of life in the
palace!

He began to wonder what he should do, and to amuse himself by pretending
that all the treasures he saw were his own, and considering how he would
divide them among his children. Then he went down into the garden,
and though it was winter everywhere else, here the sun shone,
and the birds sang, and the flowers bloomed, and the air was soft
and sweet.

The merchant, in ecstacies with all he saw and heard, said to
himself:

"All this must be meant for me.

I will go this minute and bring my children to share all these delights."

In spite of being so cold and weary when he reached the castle, he had
taken his horse to the stable and fed it.

Now he thought he would saddle it for his homeward journey, and he
turned down the path which led to the stable.

This path had a hedge of roses on each side of it, and the merchant
thought he had never seen or smelt such exquisite flowers.

They reminded him of his promise to Beauty, and he stopped and had just
gathered one to take to her when he was startled by a strange noise
behind him.

Turning round, he saw a frightful Beast, which seemed to be very angry
and said, in a terrible voice:

[Illustration]
"Who told you that you might gather my roses? Was it not enough that I
allowed you to be in my palace and was kind to you?

This is the way you show your gratitude, by stealing my flowers!

But your insolence shall not go unpunished."

The merchant, terrified by these furious words, dropped the fatal rose,
and, throwing himself on his knees, cried: "Pardon me, noble sir. I am
truly grateful to you for your hospitality, which was so magnificent
that I could not imagine that you would be offended by my taking
such a little thing as a rose."

But the Beast's anger was not lessened by this speech.

"You are very ready with excuses and flattery," he cried; "but that
will not save you from the death you deserve."

"Alas!"

thought the merchant, "if my daughter Beauty could only know what
danger her rose has brought me into!"

And in despair he began to tell the Beast all his misfortunes, and the
reason of his journey, not forgetting to mention Beauty's request.

"A king's ransom would hardly have procured all that my other
daughters asked," he said; "but I thought that I might at least
take Beauty her rose.

I beg you to forgive me, for you see I meant no harm."
The Beast considered for a moment, and then he said, in a less furious
tone:

"I will forgive you on one condition--that is, that you will give
me one of your daughters."

"Ah!" cried the merchant, "if I were cruel enough to buy my own life at
the expense of one of my children's, what excuse could I invent
to bring her here?"

"No excuse would be necessary," answered the Beast. "If she comes
at all she must come willingly. On no other condition will I have her.
See if any one of them is courageous enough, and loves you well
enough to come and save your life. You seem to be an honest man, so I
will trust you to go home.

I give you a month to see if either of your daughters will come back
with you and stay here, to let you go free.

If neither of them is willing, you must come alone, after bidding them
good-bye for ever, for then you will belong to me. And do not imagine
that you can hide from me, for if you fail to keep your word I
will come and fetch you!"

added the Beast grimly.

The merchant accepted this proposal, though he did not really think
any of his daughters would be persuaded to come.

He promised to return at the time appointed, and then, anxious to escape
from the presence of the Beast, he asked permission to set off at
once. But the Beast answered that he could not go until the next day.

"Then you will find a horse ready for you," he said. "Now go and eat
your supper, and await my orders."
The poor merchant, more dead than alive, went back to his room, where the
most delicious supper was already served on the little table which
was drawn up before a blazing fire.

But he was too terrified to eat, and only tasted a few of the
dishes, for fear the Beast should be angry if he did not obey his orders.
When he had finished he heard a great noise in the next room, which he
knew meant that the Beast was coming.

As he could do nothing to escape his visit, the only thing that remained
was to seem as little afraid as possible; so when the Beast appeared
and asked roughly if he had supped well, the merchant answered
humbly that he had, thanks to his host's kindness.

Then the Beast warned him to remember their agreement, and to prepare his
daughter exactly for what she had to expect.

"Do not get up to-morrow," he added, "until you see the sun and hear a
golden bell ring.

Then you will find your breakfast waiting for you here, and the horse you
are to ride will be ready in the courtyard. He will also bring you back
again when you come with your daughter a month hence.

Farewell.

Take a rose to Beauty, and remember your promise!"
The merchant was only too glad when the Beast went away, and though he
could not sleep for sadness, he lay down until the sun rose. Then, after
a hasty breakfast, he went to gather Beauty's rose, and mounted his
horse, which carried him off so swiftly that in an instant he had
lost sight of the palace, and he was still wrapped in gloomy thoughts
when it stopped before the door of the cottage.

His sons and daughters, who had been very uneasy at his long absence,
rushed to meet him, eager to know the result of his journey, which,
seeing him mounted upon a splendid horse and wrapped in a rich
mantle, they supposed to be favorable.

But he hid the truth from them at first, only saying sadly to Beauty
as he gave her the rose:
"Here is what you asked me to bring you; you little know what it
has cost."

But this excited their curiosity so greatly that presently he told them
his adventures from beginning to end, and then they were all very
unhappy.
The girls lamented loudly over their lost hopes, and the sons
declared that their father should not return to this terrible castle,
and began to make plans for killing the Beast if it should come to
fetch him.

But he reminded them that he had promised to go back. Then the girls were
very angry with Beauty, and said it was all her fault, and that
if she had asked for something sensible this would never have
happened, and complained bitterly that they should have to suffer
for her folly.

Poor Beauty, much distressed, said to them:

"I have indeed caused this misfortune, but I assure you I did it innocently.
Who could have guessed that to ask for a rose in the middle of
summer would cause so much misery?

But as I did the mischief it is only just that I should suffer for
it.

I will therefore go back with my father to keep his promise."
At first nobody would hear of this arrangement, and her father and
brothers, who loved her dearly, declared that nothing should make
them let her go; but Beauty was firm.

As the time drew near she divided all her little possessions between
her sisters, and said good-bye to everything she loved, and when
the fatal day came she encouraged and cheered her father as they
mounted together the horse which had brought him back.

It seemed to fly rather than gallop, but so smoothly that Beauty
was not frightened; indeed, she would have enjoyed the journey if
she had not feared what might happen to her at the end of it.

Her father still tried to persuade her to go back, but in vain. While
they were talking the night fell, and then, to their great surprise,
wonderful colored lights began to shine in all directions, and splendid
fireworks blazed out before them; all the forest was illuminated by
them, and even felt pleasantly warm, though it had been bitterly
cold before.

This lasted until they reached the avenue of orange trees, where
were statues holding flaming torches, and when they got nearer to
the palace they saw that it was illuminated from the roof to the
ground, and music sounded softly from the courtyard.

"The Beast must be very hungry," said Beauty, trying to laugh, "if
he makes all this rejoicing over the arrival of his prey."

But, in spite of her anxiety, she could not help admiring all the
wonderful things she saw.

The horse stopped at the foot of the flight of steps leading to the
terrace, and when they had dismounted her father led her to the
little room he had been in before, where they found a splendid fire
burning, and the table daintily spread with a delicious supper.

The merchant knew that this was meant for them, and Beauty, who was
rather less frightened now that she had passed through so many
rooms and seen nothing of the Beast, was quite willing to begin,
for her long ride had made her very hungry.

But they had hardly finished their meal when the noise of the Beast's
footsteps was heard approaching, and Beauty clung to her father in
terror, which became all the greater when she saw how frightened
he was.

But when the Beast really appeared, though she trembled at the sight
of him, she made a great effort to hide her horror, and saluted him
respectfully.

This evidently pleased the Beast.

After looking at her he said, in a tone that might have struck terror
into the boldest heart, though he did not seem to be angry:

"Good-evening, old man.

Good-evening, Beauty."
The merchant was too terrified to reply, but Beauty answered
sweetly:

"Good-evening, Beast."

"Have you come willingly?" asked the Beast.

"Will you be content to stay here when your father goes away?"
Beauty answered bravely that she was quite prepared to stay.

"I am pleased with you," said the Beast.

"As you have come of your own accord, you may stay. As for you, old man,"
he added, turning to the merchant, "at sunrise to-morrow you will
take your departure.

When the bell rings get up quickly and eat your breakfast, and you will
find the same horse waiting to take you home; but remember that
you must never expect to see my palace again."

Then turning to Beauty, he said:
"Take your father into the next room, and help him to choose
everything you think your brothers and sisters would like to have.

You will find two traveling-trunks there; fill them as full as you can.
It is only just that you should send them something very precious
as a remembrance of yourself."
This
wooden handle was a little more than four inches in length and two
inches thick. Hastings, giving it careful examination, commented:

"He shaped that handle with a pocket-knife. Then, he drove the butt-end
of the nail file into it. Next, he sharpened the end of the file--put a
razor edge on it.--Where did you get this, Mr. Crown?"

"A servant, one of the coloured women, picked it up as I came in. You
were still in the library."

"Where was it?"

"About fifteen or twenty feet from the body. She stumbled on it, in the
grass. Ugly thing, sure!"

"Yes," Hastings said, preoccupied, and added: "Let me have it again."

He took off his spectacles and, screwing into his right eye a jeweller's
glass, studied it for several minutes. If he made an important
discovery, he did not communicate it to Crown.

"It made an ugly hole," was all he said.

"You see the blood on it?" Crown prompted.

"Oh, yes; lucky the rain stopped when it did."

"When did it stop--out here?" Crown inquired.

"About eleven; a few minutes after I'd gone up to bed."

"So she was killed between eleven and midnight?"

"No doubt about that. Her hat had fallen from her head and was bottom up
beside her. The inside of the crown and all the lower brim was dry as a
bone, while the outside, even where it did not touch the wet grass, was
wet. That showed there wasn't any rain after she was struck down."

The sheriff was impressed by the other's keenness of observation.

"That's so," he said. "I hadn't noticed it."

He sought the detective's opinion.

"Mr. Hastings, you've just heard the stories of everybody here. Do me a
favour, will you? Is it worth while for me to go into Washington? Tell
me: do you think anybody here at Sloanehurst is responsible for this
murder?"

"Mr. Crown," the old man answered, "there's no proof that anybody here
killed that woman."

"Just what I thought," Mr. Crown applauded himself. "Glad you agree with
me. It'll turn out a simple case. Wish it wouldn't. Nominating primary's
coming on in less than a month. I'd get a lot more votes if I ran down a
mysterious fellow, solved a tough problem."

He strode down the porch steps and out to his car--for the ten-mile run
into Washington. Hastings was strongly tempted to accompany him, even
without being invited; it would mean much to be present when the mother
first heard of her daughter's death.

But he had other and, he thought, more important work to do. Moving so
quietly that his footsteps made no sound, he gained the staircase in the
hall and made his way to the second floor. If anybody had seen him and
inquired what he intended to do, he would have explained that he was on
his way to get his own coat in place of the one which young Webster
had, with striking thoughtfulness, thrown over him.

As a matter of fact, his real purpose was to search Webster's room.

But experience had long since imbued him with contempt for the obvious.
Secure from interruption, since his fellow-guests were still in the
library, he did not content himself with his hawk-like scrutiny of the
one room; he explored the back stairway which had been Webster's exit to
the lawn, Judge Wilton's room, and his own.

In the last stage of the search he encountered his greatest surprise.
Looking under his own bed by the light of a pocket torch, he found that
one of the six slats had been removed from its place and laid cross-ways
upon the other five. The reason for this was apparent; it had been
shortened by between four and five inches.

"Cut off with a pocket-knife," the old man mused; "crude work, like the
shaping of the handle of that dagger--downstairs; same wood, too. And in
my room, from my bed----

"I wonder----"

With a low whistle, expressive of incredulity, he put that new theory
from him and went down to the library.


V

THE INTERVIEW WITH MRS. BRACE


Gratified, and yet puzzled, by the results of his search of the upstairs
rooms, Hastings was fully awake to the necessity of his interviewing
Mrs. Brace as soon as possible. Lally, the chauffeur, drove him back to
Washington early that Sunday morning. It was characteristic of the old
man that, as they went down the driveway, he looked back at Sloanehurst
and felt keenly the sufferings of the people under its roof.

He was particularly drawn to Lucille Sloane, with whom he had had a
second brief conference. While waiting for his coffee--nobody in the
house had felt like breakfast--he had taken a chair at the southeast end
of the front porch and, pulling a piece of soft wood and a knife from
his Gargantuan coat-pockets, had fallen to whittling and
thinking.--Whittling, he often said, enabled him to think clearly; it
was to him what tobacco was to other men.

Thus absorbed, he suddenly heard Lucille's voice, low and tense:

"We'll have to leave it as it was be----"

Berne Webster interrupted her, a grain of bitterness in his words:

"Rather an unusual request, don't you think?"

"I wanted to tell you this after the talk in the library," she
continued, "but there----"

They had approached Hastings from the south side of the house and,
hidden from him by the verandah railing, were upon him before he could
make his presence known. Now, however, he did so, warning them by
standing up with a clamorous scraping of his feet on the floor.
Instinctively, he had recoiled from overhearing their discussion of what
was, he thought, a love-affair topic.

Lucille hurried to him, not that she had additional information to give
him, but to renew her courage. Having called upon him for aid, she had
in the usual feminine way decided to make her reliance upon him
complete. And, under the influence of his reassuring kindliness, her
hesitance and misgivings disappeared.

He had judged her feelings correctly during their conference in the
parlour. At dinner, she had seen in him merely a pleasant, quiet-spoken
old man, a typical "hick" farmer, who wore baggy, absurdly large
clothing--"for the sake of his circulation," he said--and whose
appearance in no way corresponded to his reputation as a learned
psychologist and investigator of crime. Now, however, she responded
warmly to his charm, felt the sincerity of his sympathy.

Seeing that she looked up to him, he enjoyed encouraging her, was bound
more firmly to her interests.

"I think your fears are unfounded," he told her.

But he did not reveal his knowledge that she suspected her father of
some connection with the murder. In fact, he could not decide what her
suspicion was exactly, whether it was that he had been guilty of the
crime or that he had guilty knowledge of it.

A little anxious, she had asked him to promise that he would be back by
ten o'clock, for the inquest. He thought he could do that, although he
had persuaded the coroner that his evidence would not be necessary--the
judge and Webster had found the body; their stories would establish the
essential facts.

"Why do you want me here then?" he asked, not comprehending her
uneasiness.

"For one thing," she said, "I want you to talk to father--before the
inquest. I wish you could now, but he isn't up."

It was eight o'clock when Miss Davis, telephone operator in the cheap
apartment house on Fourteenth street known as The Walman, took the old
man's card and read the inscription, over the wire:

"'Mr. Jefferson Hastings.'"

After a brief pause, she told him:

"She wants to know if you are a detective."

"Tell her I am."

"You may go up," the girl reported. "It's Number Forty-three, fourth
floor--no elevator."

After ascending the three flights of stairs, he sat down on the top
step, to get his breath. Mr. Hastings was stout, not to say
sebaceous--and he proposed to begin the interview unhandicapped.

Mrs. Brace answered his ring. There was nobody else in the apartment.
The moment he looked into her restless, remarkably brilliant black eyes,
he catalogued her as cold and repellent.

"One of the swift-eyed kind," he thought; "heart as hard as her head. No
blood in her--but smart. Smart!"

He relied, without question, on his ability to "size up" people at first
glance. It was a gift with him, like the intuition of women; and to it,
he thought, he owed his best work as a detective.

Mrs. Brace, without speaking, without acknowledging his quiet "Mrs.
Brace, I believe?" led him into the living room after waiting for him
to close the entrance door. This room was unusually large, out of
proportion to the rest of the apartment which included, in addition to
the narrow entry, a bedroom, kitchen and bath--all, so far as his
observation went, sparsely and cheaply furnished.

They sat down, and still she did not speak, but studied his face. He got
the impression that she considered all men her enemies and sought some
intimation of what his hostility would be like.

"I'm sorry to trouble you at such a time," he began. "I shall be as
brief as possible."

Her black eyebrows moved upward, in curious interrogation. They were
almost mephistophelian, and unpleasantly noticeable, drawn thus nearer
to the wide wave of her white hair.

"You wanted to see me--about my daughter?"

Her voice was harsh, metallic, free of emotion. There was nothing about
her indicative of grief. She did not look as if she had been weeping. He
could learn nothing from her manner; it was extremely matter-of-fact,
and chilly. Only, in her eyes he saw suspicion--perhaps, he reflected,
suspicion was always in her eyes.

Her composure amazed him.

"Yes," he replied gently; "if I don't distress you----"

"What is it?"

She suddenly lowered her eyebrows, drew them together until they were a
straight line at the bottom of her forehead.

Her cold self-possession made it easy, in fact necessary, for him to
deal with facts directly. Apparently, she resented his intimated
condolence. He could fling any statement, however sensational, against
the wall of her indifference. She was, he decided, as free of feeling as
she was inscrutable. She would be surprised by emotion into nothing. It
was his brain against hers.

"I want to say first," he continued, "that my only concern, outside of
my natural and very real sympathy with such a loss as yours must be, is
to find the man who killed her."

She moved slowly to and fro on the armless, low-backed rocker, watching
him intently.

"Will you help me?"

"If I can."

"Thank you," he said, smiling encouragement from force of habit, not
because he expected to arouse any spirit of cooperation in her. "I may
ask you a few questions then?"

"Certainly."

Her thin nostrils dilated once, quickly, and somehow their motion
suggested the beginning of a ridiculing smile. He went seriously to
work.

"Have you any idea, Mrs. Brace, as to who killed your daughter--or could
have wanted to kill her?"

"Yes."

"Who?"

She got up, without the least change of expression, without a word, and,
as she crossed the room, paused at the little table against the farther
wall to arrange more symmetrically a pile of finger-worn periodicals.
She went through the communicating door into the bedroom, and, from
where he sat, he could see her go through another door--into the
bathroom, he guessed. In a moment, he heard a glass clink against a
faucet. She had gone for a drink of water, to moisten her throat, like
an orator preparing to deliver an address.

She came back, unhurried, imperturbable, and sat down again in the
armless rocker before she answered his question. So far as her manner
might indicate, there had been no interruption of the conversation.

He swept her with wondering eyes. She was not playing a part, not
concealing sorrow. The straight, hard lines of her lean figure were a
complement to her gleaming, unrevealing eyes. There was hardness about
her, and in her, everywhere.

A slow, warm breeze brought through the curtainless window a
disagreeable odour, sour and fetid. The apartment was at the back of the
building; the odour came from a littered courtyard, a conglomeration of
wet ashes, neglected garbage, little filthy pools, warmed into activity
by the sun, high enough now to touch them. He could see the picture
without looking--and that odour struck him as excruciatingly appropriate
to this woman's soul.

"Berne Webster killed my daughter," she said evenly, hands moveless in
her lap. "There are several reasons for my saying so. Mildred was his
stenographer for eight months, and he fell in love with her--that was
the way he described his feeling, and intention, toward her. The usual
thing happened; he discharged her two weeks ago.

"He wants to marry money. You know about that, I take it--Miss Sloane,
daughter of A. B. Sloane, Sloanehurst, where she was murdered. They're
engaged. At least, that is--was Mildred's information, although the
engagement hasn't been announced, formally. Fact is, he has to marry the
Sloane girl."

Her thin, mobile lips curled upward at the ends and looked a little
thicker, giving an exaggerated impression of wetness. Hastings thought
of some small, feline animal, creeping, anticipating prey--a sort of
calculating ferocity.

She talked like a person bent on making every statement perfectly clear
and understandable. There was no intimation that she was so
communicative because she thought she was obliged to talk. On the
contrary, she welcomed the chance to give him the story.

"Have you told all this to that sheriff, Mr. Crown?" he inquired.

"Yes; but he seemed to attach no importance to it."

She coloured her words with feeling at last--it was contempt--putting
the sheriff beyond the pale of further consideration.

"You were saying Mr. Webster had to marry Miss Sloane. What do you mean
by that, Mrs. Brace?"

"Money reasons. He had to have money. His bank balance is never more
than a thousand dollars. He's got to produce sixty-five thousand dollars
by the seventh of next September. This is the sixteenth of July. Where
is he to get all that? He's got to marry it."

Hastings put more intensity into his scrutiny of her smooth, untroubled
face. It showed no sudden access of hatred, no unreasoning venom,
except that the general cast of her features spoke generally of
vindictiveness. She was, unmistakably, sure of what she said.

"How do you know that?" he asked, hiding his surprise.

"Mildred knew it--naturally, from working in his office."

"Let me be exact, Mrs. Brace. Your charge is just what?"

He felt the need of keen thought. He reached for his knife and piece of
wood. Entirely unconsciously, he began to whittle, letting little
shavings fall on the bare floor. She made no sign of seeing his new
occupation.

"It's plain enough, Mr.--I don't recall your name."

"Hastings--Jefferson Hastings."

"It's plain and direct, Mr. Hastings. He threw her over, threw Mildred
over. She refused to be dealt with in that way. He wouldn't listen to
her side, her arguments, her protests, her pleas. She pursued him; and
last night he killed her. I understand--Mr. Crown told me--he was found
bending over the body--it seemed to me, caught in the very commission of
the crime."

A fleeting contortion, like mirthless ridicule, touched her lips as she
saw him, with head lowered, cut more savagely into the piece of wood.
She noticed, and enjoyed, his dismay.

"That isn't quite accurate," he said, without lifting his head. "He and
another man, Judge Wilton, stumbled--came upon your daughter's body at
the same moment."

"Was that it?" she retorted, unbelieving.

When he looked up, she was regarding him thoughtfully, the black brows
elevated, interrogative. The old man felt the stirrings of physical
nausea within him. But he waited for her to elaborate her story.

"Do you care to ask anything more?" she inquired, impersonal as ashes.

"If I may."

"Why, certainly."

He paused in his whittling, brought forth a huge handkerchief, passed it
across his forehead, was aware for a moment that he was working hard
against the woman's unnatural calmness, and feeling the heat intensely.
She was untouched by it. He whittled again, asking her:

"You a native of Washington?"

"No."

"How long have you been here?"

"About nine months. We came from Chicago."

"Any friends here--have you any friends here?"

"Neither here nor elsewhere." She made that bleak declaration simply,
as if he had suggested her possession of green diamonds. Her tone made
friendship a myth.

He felt again utterly free of the restraints and little hesitancies
usual in situations of this nature.

"And your means, resources. Any, Mrs. Brace?"

"None--except my daughter's."

He was unaccountably restless. Putting the knife into his pocket, he
stood up, went to the window. His guess had been correct. The courtyard
below was as he had pictured it. He stood there at least a full minute.

Turning suddenly in the hope of catching some new expression on her
face, he found her gazing steadily, as if in revery, at the opposite
wall.

"One thing more, Mrs. Brace: did you know your daughter intended to go
to Sloanehurst last night?"

"No."

"Were you uneasy when she failed to come in--last night?"

"Yes; but what could I do?"

"Had she written to Mr. Webster recently?"

"Yes; I think so."

"You think so?"

"Yes; she went out to mail a letter night before last. I recall that
she said it was important, had to be in the box for the midnight
collection, to reach its destination yesterday afternoon--late. I'm sure
it was to Webster."

"Did you see the address on it?"

"I didn't try to."

He stepped from the window, to throw the full glare of the morning sky
on her face, which was upturned, toward him.

"Was it in a grey envelope?"

"Yes; an oblong, grey envelope," she said, the impassive, unwrinkled
face unmoved to either curiosity or reticence.

With surprising swiftness he took a triangular piece of paper from his
breast pocket and held it before her.

"Might that be the flap of that grey envelope?"

She inspected it, while he kept hold of it.

"Very possibly."

Without leaving her chair, she turned and put back the lid of a rickety
little desk in the corner immediately behind her. There, she showed him,
was a bundle of grey envelopes, the corresponding paper beside it. He
compared the envelope flaps with the one he had brought. They were
identical.

Here was support of her assertion that Berne Webster had been pursued by
her daughter as late as yesterday afternoon--and, therefore, might have
been provoked into desperate action. He had found that scrap of grey
paper at Sloanehurst, in Webster's room.


VI

ACTION BY THE SHERIFF


Mrs. Brace did not ask Hastings where he had got the fragment of grey
envelope. She made no comment whatever.

He reversed the flap in his hand and showed her the inner side on which
were, at first sight, meaningless lines and little smears. He explained
that the letter must have been put into the envelope when the ink was
still undried on the part of it that came in contact with the flap, and,
the paper being of that rough-finish, spongy kind frequently affected by
women, the flap had absorbed the undried ink pressed against it.

"Have you a hand-mirror?" he asked, breaking a long pause.

She brought one from the bedroom. Holding it before the envelope flap,
he showed her the marks thus made legible. They were, on the first line:
"--edly de--," with the first loop or curve of an "n" or an "m"
following the "de"; and on the second line the one word "Pursuit!" the
whole reproduction being this:


                                edly de
                                Pursuit!


"Does that writing mean anything to you, Mrs. Brace?" Hastings asked,
keeping it in front of her.

She moved her left hand, a quiet gesture indicating her lack of further
interest in the piece of paper.

"Nothing special," she said, "except that the top line seems to bear out
what I've told you. It might be: 'repeatedly demanded'--I mean Mildred
may have written that she had repeatedly demanded justice of him,
something of that sort."

"Is it your daughter's writing?"

"Yes."

"And the word 'Pursuit,' with an exclamation point after it? That
suggest anything to you?"

"Why, no." She showed her first curiosity: "Where did you get that piece
of envelope?"

"Not from Berne Webster," he said, smiling.

"I suppose not," she agreed, and did not press him for the information.

"You said," he went to another point, "that the sheriff attached no
importance to your belief in Webster's guilt. Can you tell me why?"

Her contempt was frank enough now, and visible, her lips thickening and
assuming the abnormally humid appearance he had noticed before.

"He thinks the footsteps which Miss Sloane says she heard are the
deciding evidence. He accuses a young man named Russell, Eugene Russell,
who's been attentive to Mildred."

Hastings was relieved.

"Crown's seen him, seen Russell?" he asked, not troubling to conceal his
eagerness.

On that, he saw the beginnings of wrath in her eyes. The black eyebrows
went upward, the thin nostrils expanded, the lips set to a line no
thicker than the edge of a knife.

"You, too, will----"

She broke off, checked by the ringing of the wall telephone in the
entrance hall. She answered the call, moving without haste. It was for
Mr. Hastings, she said, going back to her seat.

He regretted the interruption; it would give her time to regain the
self-control she had been on the point of losing.

Sheriff Crown was at the other end of the wire. He was back at
Sloanehurst, he explained, and Miss Sloane had asked him to give the
detective certain information:

He had asked the Washington police to hold Eugene Russell, or to
persuade him to attend the inquest at Sloanehurst. Crown, going in to
Washington, had stopped at the car barns of the electric road which
passed Sloanehurst, and had found a conductor who had made the
ten-thirty run last night. This conductor, Barton, had slept at the
barns, waiting for the early-morning resumption of car service to take
him to his home across the city.

Barton remembered having seen a man leave his car at Ridgecrest, the
next stop before Sloanehurst, at twenty-five minutes past ten last
night. He answered Russell's description, had seemed greatly agitated,
and was unfamiliar with the stops on the line, having questioned Barton
as to the distance between Ridgecrest and Sloanehurst. That was all the
conductor had to tell.

"Mrs. Brace's description of Russell, a real estate salesman who had
been attentive to her daughter," continued Crown, "tallied with Barton's
description of the man who had been on his car. I got his address from
her. But say! She don't fall for the idea that Russell's guilty! She
gave me to understand, in that snaky, frozen way of hers, that I was a
fool for thinking so.

"Anyway, I'm going to put him over the jumps!" The sheriff was highly
elated. "What was he out here for last night if he wasn't jealous of
the girl? Wasn't he following her? And, when he came up with her on the
Sloanehurst lawn, didn't he kill her? It looks plain to me; simple. I
told you it was a simple case!"

"Have you seen him?" Hastings was looking at his watch as he spoke--it
was nine o'clock.

"No; I went to his boarding house, waked up the place at three o'clock
this morning. He wasn't there."

Hastings asked for the number of the house. It was on Eleventh street,
Crown informed him, and gave the number.

"I searched his room," the sheriff added, his voice self-congratulatory.

"Find anything?"

"I should say! The nail file was missing from his dressing case."

"What else?"

"A pair of wet shoes--muddy and wet."

"Then, he'd returned to his room, after the murder, and gone out again?"

"That's it--right."

"Anybody in the house hear him come in, or go out?"

"Not a soul.--And I don't know where he is now."

Hastings, leaving the telephone, found Mrs. Brace carefully brushing
into a newspaper the litter made by his whittling. Her performance of
that trivial task, the calm thoroughness with which she went about it,
or the littleness of it, when compared with her complete indifference to
the tragedy which should have overwhelmed her--something, he could not
tell exactly what, made her more repugnant to him than ever.

He spoke impulsively:

"Did you want--didn't you feel some impulse, some desire, to go out
there when you heard of this murder?"

She paused in her brushing, looking up to him without lifting herself
from hands and knees.

"Why should I have wanted to do any such thing?" she replied. "Mildred's
not out there. What's out there is--nothing."

"Do you know about the arrangements for the removal of the body?"

"The sheriff told me," she replied, cold, impersonal. "It will be
brought to an undertaking establishment as soon as the coroner's jury
has viewed it."

"Yes--at ten o'clock this morning."

She made no comment on that. He had brought up the disagreeable
topic--one which would have been heart-breaking to any other mother he
had ever known--in the hope of arousing some real feeling in her. And he
had failed. Her self-control was impregnable. There was about her an
atmosphere that was, in a sense, terrifying, something out of all
nature.

She brushed up the remaining chips and shavings while he got his hat. He
was deliberating: was there nothing more she could tell him? What could
he hope to get from her except that which she wanted to tell? He was
sure that she had spoken, in reply to each of his questions, according
to a prearranged plan, a well designed scheme to bring into high relief
anything that might incriminate Berne Webster.

And he was by no means in a mood to persuade himself of Webster's guilt.
He knew the value of first impressions; and he did not propose to let
her clog his thoughts with far-fetched deductions against the young
lawyer.

She got to her feet with cat-like agility, and, to his astonishment,
burst into violent speech:

"You're standing there trying to think up things to help Berne Webster!
Like the sheriff! Now, I'll tell you what I told him: Webster's guilty.
I know it! He killed my daughter. He's a liar and a coward--a traitor!
He killed her!"

There was no doubt of her emotion now. She stood in a strange attitude,
leaning a little toward him in the upper part of her body, as if all her
strength were consciously directed into her shoulders and neck. She
seemed larger in her arms and shoulders; they, with her head and face,
were, he thought, the most vivid part of her--an effect which she
produced deliberately, to impress him.

Her whole body was not tremulous, but, rather, vibrant, a taut mechanism
played on by the rage that possessed her. Her eyebrows, high on her
forehead, reminded him of things that crawled. Her eyes, brilliant like
clear ice with sunshine on it, were darting, furtive, always in motion.

She did not look him squarely in the eye, but her eyes selected and
bored into every part of his face; her glance played on his countenance.
He could easily have imagined that it burned him physically in many
places.

"All this talk about Gene Russell's being guilty is stuff, bosh!" she
continued. "Gene wouldn't hurt anybody. He couldn't! Wait until you see
him!" Her lips curled momentarily to their thickened, wet sneer.
"There's nothing to him--nothing! Mildred hated him; he bored her to
death. Even I laughed at him. And this sheriff talks about the boy's
having killed her!"

Suddenly, she partially controlled her fury. He saw her eyes contract to
the gleam of a new idea. She was silent a moment, while her vibrant,
tense body swayed in front of him almost imperceptibly.

When she spoke again, it was in her flat, constrained tone. He was
impressed anew with her capacity for making her feeling subordinate to
her intelligence.

"She's a dangerous woman," he thought again.

"You're working for Webster?"

Her inquiry came after so slight a pause, and it was put to him in a
manner so different from the unrestraint of her denunciation of Webster,
that he felt as he would have done if he had been dealing with two
women.

"I've told you already," he said, "my only interest is in finding the
real murderer. In that sense, I'm working for Webster--if he's
innocent."

"But he didn't hire you?"

"No."

Seeing that he told the truth, she indulged herself in rage again. It
was just that, Hastings thought; she took an actual, keen pleasure in
giving vent to the anger that was in her. Relieved of the necessity of
censoring her words and thoughts closely, she could say what she wanted
to say.

"He's guilty, and I'll prove it!" she defied the detective's disbelief.
"I'll help to prove it. Guilty? I tell you he is--guilty as hell!"

He made an abrupt departure, her shrill hatred ringing in his ears when
he reached the street. He found it hard, too, to get her out of his
eyes, even now--she had impressed herself so shockingly upon him. The
picture of her floated in front of him, above the shimmering pavement,
as if he still confronted her in all her unloveliness, the smooth, white
face like a travesty on youth, the swift, darting eyes, the hard,
straight lines of the lean figure, the cold deliberation of manner and
movement.

"She's incapable of grief!" he thought. "Terrible! She's terrible!"

Lally drove him to his apartment on Fifteenth street, where the largest
of three rooms served him as a combination library and office. There he
kept his records, in a huge, old-fashioned safe; and there, also, he
held his conferences, from time to time, with police chiefs and
detectives from all parts of the country when they sought his help in
their pursuit of criminals.

The walls were lined with books from floor to ceiling. A large table in
the centre of the room was stacked high with newspapers and magazines.
Dusty papers and books were piled, too, on several chairs set against
the bookcases, and on the floor in one corner was a pyramid of
documents.

"This place is like me," he explained to visitors; "it's loosely
dressed."

He sat down at the table and wrote instructions for one of his two
assistants, his best man, Hendricks. Russell's room must be searched and
Russell interviewed--work for which Hastings felt that he himself could
not spare the time. He gave Hendricks a second task: investigation of
the financial standing of two people: Berne Webster and Mrs. Catherine
Brace.

He noted, with his customary kindness, in his memorandum to Hendricks:

"Sunday's a bad day for this sort of work, but do the best you can.
Report tomorrow morning."

That arranged, he set out for Sloanehurst, to keep his promise to
Lucille--he would be there for the inquest.

On the way he reviewed matters:

"Somehow, I got the idea that the Brace woman _knew_ Russell hadn't
killed her daughter. Funny, that is. How could she have known that? How
can she know it now?

"She's got the pivotal fact in this case. I felt it. I'm willing to bet
she persuaded her daughter to pursue Webster. And things have gone
'bust'--didn't come out as she thought they would. What was she after,
money? That's exactly it! Exactly! Her daughter could hold up Webster,
and Webster could hold up the Sloanes after his marriage."

He whistled softly.

"If she can prove that Webster should have married her daughter, that
he's in need of anything like sixty-five thousand dollars--where does he
get off? He gets off safely if the Brace woman ever sees fit to
tell--what? I couldn't guess if my whittling hand depended on it." He
grimaced his repugnance.

"What a woman! A mania for wickedness--evil from head to foot,
thoroughly. _She_ wouldn't stick at murder--if she thought it safe.
She'd do anything, say anything. Every word she uttered this morning had
been rehearsed in her mind--with gestures, even. When I beat her, I beat
this puzzle; that's sure."

That he had to do with a puzzle, he had no manner of doubt. The very
circumstances surrounding the discovery of the girl's body--Arthur
Sloane flashing on the light in his room at a time when his being awake
was so unusual that it frightened his daughter; Judge Wilton stumbling
over the dead woman; young Webster doing the same thing in the same
instant; the light reaching out to them at the moment when they bent
down to touch the thing which their feet had encountered--all that
shouted mystery to his experienced mind.

He thought of Webster's pronouncement: "The thug, acting on the spur of
the moment, with a blow in the dark and a getaway through the
night----" Here was reproduction of that in real life. Would people say
that Webster had given himself away in advance? They might.

And the weapon, what about that? It could have been manufactured in ten
minutes. Crown had said over the wire that Russell's nail file was
missing. What if Webster's, too, were missing? He would see--although he
expected to uncover no such thing.

He came, then, to Lucille's astounding idea, that her father must be
"protected," because he was nervous and, being nervous, might incur the
enmity of the authorities. He could not take that seriously. And yet the
most fruitful imagination in the world could fabricate no motive for
Arthur Sloane's killing a young woman he had never seen.

Only Webster and Russell could be saddled with motives: Webster's,
desperation, the savage determination to rid himself of the woman's
pursuit; Russell's, unreasoning jealousy.

So far as facts went, the crime lay between those two--and he could not
shake off the impression that Mrs. Brace, shrilly asserting Russell's
innocence, had known that she spoke the absolute truth.


VII

THE HOSTILITY OF MR. SLOANE


Delayed by a punctured tire, Hastings reached Sloanehurst when the
inquest was well under way. He went into the house by a side door and
found Lucille Sloane waiting for him.

"Won't you go to father at once?" she urged him.

"What's the matter?" He saw that her anxiety had grown during his
absence.

"He's in one of his awfully nervous states. I hope you'll be very
patient with him--make allowances. He doesn't seem to grasp the
importance of your connection with the case; wants to ask questions.
Won't you let me take you to him, now?"

"Why, yes, if I can be of any help. What do you want me to say to him?"

As a matter of fact, he was glad of the opportunity for the interview.
He had long since discovered the futility of inquests in the uncovering
of important evidence, and he had not intended to sit through this one.
He wanted particularly to talk to Berne Webster, but Sloane also had to
be questioned.

"I thought you might explain," she continued hurriedly, preceding him
down the hall toward her father's room, "that you will do exactly what I
asked you to do--see that the mysterious part of this terrible affair,
if there is any mystery in it--see that it's cleared up promptly. Please
tell him you'll act for us in dealing with newspaper reporters; that
you'll help us, not annoy us, not annoy him."

She had stopped at Sloane's door.

"And you?" Hastings delayed her knock. "If they want you to testify, if
Dr. Garnet calls for you, I think you'd better testify very frankly,
tell them about the footsteps you heard."

"I've already done that." She seemed embarrassed. "Father asked me to
'phone Mr. Southard, Mr. Jeremy Southard, his lawyer, about it. I know I
told you I wanted your advice about everything. I would have waited to
ask you. But you were late. I had to take Mr. Southard's advice."

"That's perfectly all right," he reassured her. "Mr. Southard advised
you wisely.--Now, I'm going to ask your help. The guest-rooms
upstairs--have the servants straightened them up this morning?"

They had not, she told him. Excitement had quite destroyed their
efficiency for the time being; they were at the parlour windows,
listening, or waiting to be examined by the coroner.

"That's what I hoped," he said. "Won't you see that those rooms are left
exactly as they are until I can have a look at them?" She nodded assent.
"And say nothing about my speaking of it--absolutely nothing to anybody?
It's vitally important."

The door was opened by Sloane's man, Jarvis, who had in queer
combination, Hastings thought, the salient aspects of an undertaker and
an experienced pick-pocket. He was dismal of countenance and alert in
movement, an efficient ghost, admirably appropriate to the twilit gloom
of the room with its heavily shaded windows.

Mr. Sloane was in bed, in the darkest corner.

"Father," Lucille addressed him from the door-sill, "I've asked Mr.
Hastings to talk to you about things. He's just back from Washington."

"Shuddering saints!" said Mr. Sloane, not lifting his head from the
pillows.

Lucille departed. The ghostly Jarvis closed the door without so much as
a click of the latch. Hastings advanced slowly toward the bed, his eyes
not yet accustomed to the darkness.

"Shuddering, shivering, shaking saints!" Mr. Sloane exclaimed again, the
words coming in a slow, shrill tenor from his lips, as if with great
exertion he reached up with something and pushed each one out of his
mouth. "Sit down, Mr. Hastings, if I can control my nerves, and stand
it. What is it?"

His hostility to the caller was obvious. The evident and grateful
interest with which the night before he had heard the detective's
stories of crimes and criminals had changed now to annoyance at the very
sight of him. As a raconteur, Mr. Hastings was quite the thing; as
protector of the Sloane family's privacy and seclusion, he was a
nuisance. Such was the impression Mr. Hastings received.

At a loss to understand his host's frame of mind, he took a chair near
the bed.

Mr. Sloane stirred jerkily under his thin summer coverings.

"A little light, Jarvis," he said peevishly. "Now, Mr. Hastings, what
can I do for--tell you?"

Jarvis put back a curtain.

"Quivering and crucified martyrs!" the prostrate man burst forth. "I
said a little, Jarvis! You drown my optic nerves in ink and, without a
moment's warning, flood them with the glaring brilliancy of the noonday
sun!" Jarvis half-drew the curtain. "Ah, that's better. Never more than
an inch at a time, Jarvis. How many times have I told you that? Never
give me a shock like that again; never more than an inch of light at a
time. Frantic fiends! From cimmerian, abysmal darkness to Sahara-desert
glare!"

"Yes, sir," said Jarvis, as if on the point of digging a grave--for
himself. "Beg pardon, sir."

He effaced himself, in shadows, somewhere behind Hastings, who seized
the opportunity to speak.

"Miss Sloane suggested that you wanted certain information. In fact, she
asked me to see you."

"My daughter? Oh, yes!" The prone body became semi-upright, leaned on an
elbow. "Yes! What I want to know is, why--why, in the name of all the
jumping angels, everybody seems to think there's a lot of mystery
connected with this brutal, vulgar, dastardly crime! It passes my
comprehension, utterly!--Jarvis, stop clicking your finger-nails
together!" This with a note of exaggerated pleading. "You know I'm a
nervous wreck, a total loss physically, and yet you stand there in the
corner and indulge yourself wickedly, wickedly, in that infernal habit
of yours of clicking your finger-nails! Mute and mutilated Christian
martyrs!"

He fell back among the pillows, breathing heavily, the perfect picture
of exhaustion. Jarvis came near on soundless feet and applied a wet
cloth to his master's temples.

The old man regarded them both with unconcealed amazement.

"You'll have to excuse me, Mr. Hastings, really, I can't be annoyed!"
the wreck, somewhat revived, announced feebly. "All I said to my
daughter, Miss Sloane, is what I say to you now: I see no reason why we
should employ you, or indeed why you should be connected with this
affair. You were my guest, here, at Sloanehurst. Unfortunately, some
ruffian of whom we never heard, whose existence we never
suspected--Jarvis, take off this counterpane; you're boiling me,
parboiling me; my nerves are seething, simmering, stewing! Athletic
devils! Have you no discrimination, Jarvis?--as I was saying, Mr.
Hastings, somebody stabbed somebody else to death on my lawn,
unfortunately marring your visit. But that's all. I can't see that we
need you--thank you, nevertheless."

The dismissal was unequivocal. Hastings got to his feet, his indignation
all the greater through realization that he had been sent for merely to
be flouted. And yet, this man's daughter had come to him literally with
tears in her eyes, had begged him to help her, had said that money was
the smallest of considerations. Moreover, he had accepted her
employment, had made the definite agreement and promise. Apparently,
Sloane was in no condition to act independently, and his daughter had
known it, had hoped that he, Hastings, might soothe his silly mind, do
away with his objections to assistance which she knew he needed.

There was, also, the fact that Lucille believed her father unaccountably
interested, if not implicated, in the crime. He could not get away from
that impression. He was sure he had interpreted correctly the girl's
anxiety the night before. She was working to save her father--from
something. And she believed Berne Webster innocent.

These were some of the considerations which, flashing through his mind,
prevented his giving way to righteous wrath. He most certainly would not
allow Arthur Sloane to eliminate him from the situation. He sat down
again.

The nervous wreck made himself more understandable.

"Perhaps, Jarvis," he said, shrinking to one side like a man in sudden
pain, "the gentleman can't see how to reach that large door. A little
more light, half an inch-not a fraction more!"

"Don't bother," Hastings told Jarvis. "I'm not going quite yet."

"Leaping crime!" moaned Mr. Sloane, digging deeper into the pillows,
"Frantic imps!"

"I hope I won't distress you too much," the detective apologized grimly,
"if I ask you a few questions. Fact is, I must. I'm investigating the
circumstances surrounding what may turn out to be a baffling crime, and,
irrespective of your personal wishes, Mr. Sloane, I can't let go of it.
This is a serious business----"

The sick man sat up in bed with surprising abruptness.

"Serious business! Serious saints!--Jarvis, the eau de cologne!--You
think I don't know it? They make a slaughter-house of my lawn. They make
a morgue of my house. They hold a coroner's inquest in my parlour.
They're in there now--live people like ravens, and one dead one. They
cheat the undertaker to plague me. They wreck me all over again. They
give me a new exhaustion of the nerves. They frighten my daughter to
death.--Jarvis, the smelling salts. Shattered saints, Jarvis! Hurry!
Thanks.--They rig up lies which, Tom Wilton, my old and trusted friend,
tells me, will incriminate Berne Webster. They sit around a corpse in my
house and chatter by the hour. You come in here and make Jarvis nearly
blind me.

"And, then, then, by the holy, agile angels! you think you have to
persuade me it's a serious business! Never fear! I know it!--Jarvis,
the bromide, quick! Before I know it, they'll drive me to
opiates.--Serious business! Shrivelled and shrinking saints!"

Arms clasped around his legs, knees pressed against his chin, Mr. Sloane
trembled and shook until Jarvis, more agile than the angels of whom his
employer had spoken, gave him the dose of bromides.

Still, Mr. Hastings did not retire.

"I was going to say," he resumed, in a tone devoid of compassion, "I
couldn't drop this thing now. I may be able to find the murderer; and
you may be able to help me."

"I?"

"Yes."

"Isn't it Russell? He's among the ravens now, in my parlour. Wilton told
me the sheriff was certain Russell was the man. Murdered martyrs!
Sacrificed saints! Can't you let a guilty man hang when he comes forward
and puts the rope around his own worthless neck?"

"If Russell's guilty," Hastings said, glad of the information that the
accused man was then at Sloanehurst, "I hope we can develop the
necessary evidence against him. But----"

"The necessary----"

"Let me finish, Mr. Sloane, if you please!" The old man was determined
to disregard the other's signs of suffering. He did not believe that
they were anything but assumed, the exaggerated camouflage which he
usually employed as an excuse for idleness. "But, if Russell isn't
guilty, there are facts which may help me to find the murderer. And you
may have valuable information concerning them."

"Sobbing, sorrowing saints!" lamented Mr. Sloane, but his trembling
ceased; he was closely attentive. "A cigarette, Jarvis, a cigarette!
Nerves will be served.--I suppose the easiest way is to submit. Go on."

"I shall ask you only two or three questions," Hastings said.

The jackknife-like figure in the bed shuddered its repugnance.

"I've been told, Mr. Sloane, that Mr. Webster has been in great need of
money, as much as sixty-five thousand dollars. In fact, according to my
information, he needs it now."

"Well, did he kill the woman, expecting to find it in her stocking?"

"The significance of his being hard-pressed, for so large an amount,"
the old man went on, ignoring the sarcasm, "is in the further charge
that Miss Brace was trying to make him marry her, that he should have
married her, that he killed her in order to be free to marry your
daughter--for money."

"My daughter! For money!" shrilled Sloane, neck elongated, head thrust
forward, eyes bulging. "Leaping and whistling cherubim!" For all his
outward agitation, he seemed to Hastings in thorough command of his
logical faculties; it was more than possible, the detective thought,
that the expletives were time-killers, until he could decide what to
say. "It's ridiculous, absurd! Why, sir, you reason as loosely as you
dress! Are you trying to prostrate me further with impossible theories?
Webster marry my daughter for money, for sixty-five thousand dollars? He
knows I'd let him have any amount he wanted. I'd give him the money if
it meant his peace of mind and Lucille's happiness.--Dumb and dancing
devils! Jarvis, a little whiskey! I'm worn out, worn out!"

"Did you ever tell Mr. Webster of the extent of your generous feeling
toward him, Mr. Sloane--in dollars and cents?"

"No; it wasn't necessary. He knows how fond of him I am."

"And you would let him have sixty-five thousand dollars--if he had to
have it?"

"I would, sir!--today, this morning."

"Now, one other thing, Mr. Sloane, and I'm through. It's barely possible
that there was some connection between this murder and a letter which
came to Sloanehurst yesterday afternoon, a letter in an oblong grey
envelope. Did----"

The nervous man went to pieces again, beat with his open palms on the
bed covering.

"Starved and stoned evangels, Jarvis! Quit balling your feet! You stand
there and see me harassed to the point of extinction by a lot of crazy
queries, and you indulge yourself in that infernal weakness of yours of
balling your feet! Leaping angels! You know how acute my hearing is; you
know the noise of your sock against the sole of your shoe when you ball
your feet is the most exquisite torture to me! A little whiskey, Jarvis!
Quick!" He spoke now in a weak, almost inaudible voice to Hastings: "No;
I got no such letter. I saw no such letter." He sank slowly back to a
prone posture.

"I was going to remind you," the detective continued, "that I brought
the five o'clock mail in. Getting off the car, I met the rural carrier;
he asked me to bring in the mail, saving him the few steps to your box.
All there was consisted of a newspaper and one letter. I recall the
shape and colour of the envelope--oblong, grey. I did not, of course,
look at the address. I handed the mail to you when you met me on the
porch."

Mr. Sloane, raising himself on one elbow to take the restoring drink
from Jarvis, looked across the glass at his cross-examiner.

"I put the mail in the basket on the hall table," he said in high-keyed
endeavour to express withering contempt. "If it had been for me, Jarvis
would have brought it to me later. I seldom carry my reading glasses
about the house with me."

Hastings, subjecting the pallid Jarvis to severe scrutiny, asked him:

"Was that grey letter addressed to--whom?"

"I didn't see it," replied Jarvis, scarcely polite.

"And yet, it's your business to inspect and deliver the household's
mail?"

"Yes, sir."

"What became of it, then--the grey envelope?"

"I'm sure I can't say, sir, unless some one got it before I reached the
mail basket."

Hastings stood up. Interrogation of both master and man had given him
nothing save the inescapable conviction that both of them resented his
questioning and would do nothing to help him. The reason for this
opposition he could not grasp, but it was a fact, challenging his
analysis. Arthur Sloane rejected his proffered help in the pursuit of
the man who had brought murder to the doors of Sloanehurst. Why? Was
this his method of hiding facts in his possession?

Hastings questioned him again:

"Your waking up at that unusual hour last night--was it because of a
noise outside?"

The neurasthenic, once more recumbent, succeeded in voicing faint denial
of having heard any noises, outside or inside. Nor had he been aware of
the murder until called by Judge Wilton. He had turned on his light to
find the smelling-salts which, for the first time in six years, Jarvis
had failed to leave on his bed-table,--terrible and ill-trained apes!
Couldn't he be left in peace?

The hall door opened, admitting Judge Wilton. The newcomer, with a word
of greeting to Hastings, sat down on the bedside and put a hand on
Sloane's shoulder.

Hastings turned to leave the room.

"Any news?" the judge asked him.

"I've just been asking Mr. Sloane that," Hastings said, in a tone that
made Wilton look swiftly at his friend's face.

"I told Arthur this morning," he said, "how lucky he was that you'd
promised Lucille to go into this thing."

"Apparently," Hastings retorted drily, "he's unconvinced of the extent
of his good fortune."

Mr. Sloane, quivering from head to foot, mourned softly: "Unfathomable
fate!"

Wilton, his rugged features softening to frank amusement, stared a
moment in silence at Sloane's thin face, at the deeply lined forehead
topped by stringy grey hair.

"See here, Arthur," he protested, nodding Hastings an invitation to
remain; "you know as much about crime as Hastings and I. If you've
thought about this murder at all, you must see what it is. If Russell
isn't guilty--if he's not the man, that crime was committed shrewdly,
with forethought. And it was a devilish thing--devilish!"

"Well, what of it?" Sloane protested shrilly, not opening his eyes.

"Take my advice. Quit antagonizing Mr. Hastings. Be thankful that he's
here, that he's promised to run down the guilty man."

Mr. Sloane turned his face to the wall.

"A little whiskey, Jarvis," he said softly. "I'm exhausted, Tom. Leave
me alone."

Wilton waved his hand, indicative of the futility of further argument.

"Judge," announced Hastings, at the door, "I'll ask you a question I put
to Mr. Sloane. Did you receive, or see, a letter in an oblong, grey
envelope in yesterday afternoon's mail?"

"No. I never get any mail while I'm here for a week-end."

Wilton followed the detective into the hall.

"I hope you're not going to give up the case, Hastings. You won't pay
any attention to Arthur's unreasonable attitude, will you?"

"I don't know," Hastings said, still indignant. "I made my bargain with
his daughter. I'll see her."

"If you can't manage any other way, I--or she--will get any information
you want from Arthur."

"I hope to keep on. It's a big thing, I think." The old man was again
intent on solving the problem. "Tell me, judge; do you think Berne
Webster's guilty?" Seeing the judge's hesitance, he supplemented: "I
mean, did you notice anything last night, in his conduct, that would
indicate guilt--or fear?"

Later, when other developments gave this scene immense importance,
Hastings, in reviewing it, remembered the curious little flicker of the
judge's eyelids preceding his reply.

"Absolutely not," he declared, with emphasis. "Are you working on
that"--he hesitated hardly perceptibly--"idea?"


VIII

THE MAN WHO RAN AWAY


Ancestors of the old family from whom Arthur Sloane had purchased this
colonial mansion eight years ago still looked out of their gilded frames
on the parlour walls, their high-bred calm undisturbed, their
aristocratic eyes unwidened, by the chatter and clatter of the strangers
within their gates. Hastings noticed that even the mob and mouthing of a
coroner's inquest failed to destroy the ancient atmosphere and charm of
the great room. He smiled. The pictured grandeur of a bygone age, the
brocaded mahogany chairs, the tall French mirrors--all these made an
incongruous setting for the harsh machinery of crime-inquiry.

The detective had completed his second and more detailed search of the
guest-rooms in time to hear the words and study the face of the last
witness on Dr. Garnet's list. That was Eugene Russell.

"One of life's persimmons--long before frost!" Hastings thought, making
swift appraisal. "A boneless spine--chin like a sheep--brave as a
lamb."

Russell could not conceal his agitation. In fact, he referred to it.
Fear, he explained in a low, husky voice to the coroner and the jury,
was not a part of his emotions. His only feeling was sorrow, varied now
and then by the embarrassment he felt as a result of the purely personal
and very intimate facts which he had to reveal.

His one desire was to be frank, he declared, his pale blue eyes roving
from place to place, his nervous fingers incessantly playing with his
thin, uncertain lips. This mania for truthfulness, he asserted, was
natural, in that it offered him the one sure path to freedom and the
establishment of his innocence of all connection with the murder of the
woman he had loved.

He was, he testified, thirty-one years old, a clerk in a real-estate
dealer's office and a native of Washington. Mildred Brace had been
employed for a few weeks by the same firm for which he worked, and it
was there that he had met her. Although she had refused to marry him on
the ground that his salary was inadequate for the needs of two people,
she had encouraged his attentions. Sometimes, they had quarrelled.

"Speak up, Mr. Russell!" Dr. Garnet directed. "And take your time. Let
the jury hear every word you utter."

After that, the witness abandoned his attempt to exclude the family
portraits from his confidence, but his voice shook.

"Conductor Barton is right," he said, responding to the coroner's
interrogation. "I did come out on his car, the car that gets to the
Sloanehurst stop at ten-thirty, and I did leave the car at the
Ridgecrest stop, a quarter of a mile from here. I was following
Mil--Miss Brace. I saw her leave her apartment house, the Walman. I
followed her to the transfer station at the bridge, and I saw her take
the car there. I followed on the next car. I knew where she was going,
knew she was going to Sloanehurst."

"How did you know that, Mr. Russell?"

"I mean I was certain of it. She'd told me Mr. Berne Webster, the lawyer
she'd been working for, was out here spending the week-end; and I knew
she was coming out to meet him."

"Why did she do that?"

Mr. Russell displayed pathetic embarrassment and confusion before he
answered that. He plucked at his lower lip with spasmodic fingers. His
eyes were downcast. He attempted a self-deprecatory smile which ended in
an unpleasant grimace.

"She wouldn't say. But it was because she was in love with him."

"And you were jealous of Mr. Webster?"

"We-ell--yes, sir; that's about it, I guess."

"Did Miss Brace tell you she was coming to Sloanehurst?"

"No, sir. I suspected it."

"And watched her movements?"

"Yes, sir."

"And followed her?"

"Yes."

"Why did you think she was in love with Mr. Webster, Mr. Russell? And
please give us a direct answer. You can understand the importance of
what you're about to say."

"I do. I thought so because she had told me that he was in love with
her, and because of her grief and anger when he dismissed her from his
office. And she did everything to make me think so, except declaring it
outright. She did that because she knew I hated to think she was in love
with him."

"All right, Mr. Russell. Now, tell us what happened during
your--ah--shadowing Miss Brace the night she was killed."

"I got off the car at Ridgecrest and walked toward Sloanehurst. It was
raining then, pretty hard. I thought she had made an appointment to
meet Mr. Webster somewhere in the grounds here. It was a quarter to
eleven when I got to the little side-gate that opens on the lawn out
there on the north side of the house."

"How did you know that?"

"I looked at my watch then. It's got a luminous dial."

"You were then at the gate near where she was found, dead?"

"Yes. And she was at the gate."

"Oh! So you saw her?"

"I saw her. When I lifted the latch of the gate, she came toward me.
There was a heavy drizzle then. I thought she had been leaning on the
fence a few feet away. She whispered, sharp and quick, 'Who's that?' I
knew who she was, right off. I said, 'Gene.'

"She caught hold of my arm and shook it. She told me, still whispering,
if I didn't get away from there, if I didn't go back to town, she'd
raise an alarm, accuse me of trying to kill her--or she'd kill me. She
pressed something against my cheek. It felt like a knife, although I
couldn't see, for the darkness."

The witness paused and licked his dry lips. He was breathing fast, and
his restless eyes had a hunted look. The people in the room leaned
farther toward him, some believing, some doubting him.

Hastings thought: "He's scared stiff, but telling the truth--so far."

"All right; what next?" asked Dr. Garnet, involuntarily lowering his
voice to Russell's tone.

"I accused her of having an appointment to meet Webster there. I got
mad. I hate to have to tell all this, gentlemen; but I want to tell the
truth. I told her she was a fool to run after a man who'd thrown her
over.

"'It's none of your look-out what I do!' she told me. 'You get away from
here, now--this minute! You'll be sorry if you don't!' There was
something about her that frightened me, mad as I was. I'd never seen her
like that before."

"What do you mean?" Garnet urged him.

"I thought she would kill me, or somebody else would, and she knew it. I
got the idea that she was like a crazy woman, out of her head about
Webster, ready to do anything desperate, anything wild. I can't explain
it any better than that."

"And did you leave her?"

"Yes, sir."

"At once?"

"Practically. A sort of panic got hold of me. I can't explain it,
really."

Russell, seeking an illuminative phrase, gave vent to a long-drawn,
anxious sigh. He appeared to feel no shame for his flight. His fear was
that he would not be believed.

"Just as she told me a second time to leave her, I thought I heard
somebody coming toward us, a slushy, dull sound, like heavy footsteps on
the wet grass. Mildred's manner, her voice, had already scared me.

"When I heard those footsteps, I turned and ran. My heart was in my
mouth. I ran out to the road and back toward Washington. I ran as fast
as I could. Twice I fell on my hands and knees. I can't tell you exactly
how it was, why it was. I just knew something terrible would happen if I
stayed there. I never had a feeling like that before. I was more afraid
of her than I was of the man coming toward us."

Members of the jury pushed back their chairs, were audible with subdued
exclamations and long breaths, relieved of the nervous tension to which
Russell's story of the encounter at the gate had lifted them. They were,
however, prejudiced against him, a fact which he grasped.

One of them asked him:

"Can you tell us why you followed her out here?"

"Why?" Russell echoed, like a man seeking time for deliberation.

"Yes. What did you think you'd do after you'd overtaken her?"

"Persuade her to go back home with me. I wanted to save her from doing
anything foolish--anything like that, you know."

"But, from what you've told us here this morning, it seems you never had
much influence on her behaviour. Isn't that true?"

"I suppose it is.--But," Russell added eagerly, "I can prove I had no
idea of hurting her, if that's what you're hinting at. I can prove I
never struck her. At twenty minutes past eleven last night I was four
miles from here. Mr. Otis, a Washington commission merchant, picked me
up in his automobile, six miles outside of Washington and took me into
town. I couldn't have made that four miles on foot, no matter how I ran,
in approximately fifteen or twenty minutes.

"It's been proved that she was struck down after eleven anyway.--You
said the condition of the body showed that, doctor.--You see, I would
have had to make the four miles in less than twenty minutes--an
impossibility. You see?"

His eagerness to win their confidence put a disagreeable note, almost a
whimper, into his voice. It grated on Dr. Garnet.

It affected Hastings more definitely.

"Now," he decided, "he's lying--about something. But what?" He noted a
change in Russell's face, a suggestion of craftiness, the merest shadow
of slyness over his general attitude of anxiety. And yet, this part of
his story seemed straight enough.

Dr. Garnet's next question brought out the fact that it would be
corroborated.

"This Mr. Otis, Mr. Russell; where is he?"

"Right there, by the window," the witness answered, with a smug smile
which gave him a still more unprepossessing look.

Jury and spectators turned toward the man at the window. They saw a
clean-shaven, alert-looking person of middle age, who nodded slightly in
Russell's direction as if endorsing his testimony. There seemed no
possible grounds for doubting whatever Otis might say. Hastings at once
accepted him as genuine, an opinion which, it was obvious, was shared by
the rest of the assemblage.

Russell sensed the change of sentiment toward himself. Until now, it had
been a certainty that he would be held for the murder. But his producing
an outsider, incontestably a trustworthy man, to establish the truth of
his statement that he had been four miles away from the scene of the
crime a quarter of an hour after it had been committed--that was
something in his favour which could not be gainsaid.

Granting even that he had had an automobile at his disposal--a
supposition for which there was no foundation--his alibi would still
have been good, in view of the rain and the fact that one of the four
miles in question was "dirt road."

With the realization of this, the jury swung back to the animus it had
felt against Webster, the incredulity with which it had received his
statement that there had been between him and the dead woman no closer
relationship than that of employer and employe.

Webster, seated near the wall furthest from the jury, felt the inquiry
of many eyes upon him, but he was unmoved, kept his gaze on Russell.

Dr. Garnet, announcing that he would ask Mr. Otis to testify a little
later, handed Russell the weapon with which Mildred Brace had been
murdered.

"Have you ever seen that dagger before?" he asked.

Russell said he had not. Reminded that Sheriff Crown had testified to
searching the witness's room and had discovered that a nail file was
missing from his dressing case, a file which, judging by other articles
in the case, must have been the same size as the one used in making the
amateur dagger, Russell declared that his file had been lost for three
years. He had left it in a hotel room on the only trip he had ever taken
to New York.

He gave way to Mr. Otis, who described himself as a commission merchant
of Washington. Returning from a tour to Lynchburg, Virginia, he said, he
had been hailed last night by a man in the road and had agreed to take
him into town, a ride of six miles. Reaching Washington shortly before
midnight, he had dropped his passenger at Eleventh and F streets.

"Who was this passenger?" inquired Garnet.

"He told me," said Otis, "his name was Eugene Russell. I gave him my
name. That explains how he was able to find me this morning. When he
told me how he was situated, I agreed to come over here and give you
gentlemen the facts."

"Notice anything peculiar about Mr. Russell last night?"

"No; I think not."

"Was he agitated, disturbed?"

"He was out of breath. And he commented on that himself, said he'd been
walking fast. Oh, yes! He was bareheaded; and he explained that--said
the rain had ruined a cheap straw hat he had been wearing; the glue had
run out of the straw and down his neck, he had thrown the hat away."

"And the time? When did you pick him up?"

"It was twenty minutes past eleven o'clock. When I stopped, I glanced at
my machine clock; I carry a clock just above my speedometer."

Mr. Otis was positive in his statements. He realized, he said, that his
words might relieve one man of suspicion and bring it upon another.
Unless he had been absolutely certain of his facts, he would not have
stated them. He was sure, beyond the possibility of doubt, that he had
made no mistake when he looked at his automobile clock; it was running
when he stopped and when he reached Washington; yes, it was an accurate
timepiece.

Russell's alibi was established. His defence appealed to the jurymen as
unassailable. When, after a conference of less than half an hour, they
brought in a verdict that Mildred Brace had been murdered by a thrust of
the "nail-file dagger" in the hands of a person unknown, nobody in the
room was surprised.

And nobody was blind to the fact that the freeing of Eugene Russell
seriously questioned the innocence of Berne Webster.


IX

THE BREAKING DOWN OF WEBSTER


Hastings, sprawling comfortably in a low chair by the south window in
the music room, stopped his whittling when Berne Webster came in with
Judge Wilton. "Meddlesome Mike!" thought the detective. "I sent for
Webster."

"Berne asked me to come with him," the judge explained his presence at
once. "We've talked things over; he thought I might help him bring out
every detail--jog his memory, if necessary."

Hastings did not protest the arrangement. He saw, almost immediately,
that Webster had come with no intention of giving him hearty
cooperation. The motive for this lack of frankness he could not
determine. It was enough that he felt the younger man's veiled
antagonism and appreciated the fact that Wilton accompanied him in the
rôle of protector.

"If I'm to get anything worth while out of this talk," he decided, "I've
got to mix up my delivery, shuffle the cards, spring first one thing and
then another at him--bewilder him."

He proceeded with that definite design: at an opportune time, he would
guide the narrative, take it out of Webster's hands, and find out what
he wanted to know, not merely what the young lawyer wanted to tell. He
recognized the necessity of breaking down the shell of self-control that
overlaid the suspected man's uneasiness.

That it was only a shell, he felt sure. Webster, leaning an elbow
lightly on the piano, looked down at him out of anxious eyes, and
continually passed his right hand over his smooth, dark-brown hair from
forehead to crown, a mechanical gesture of his when perplexed.

His smile, too, was forced, hardly more than a slight, fixed twist of
the lips, as if he strove to advertise his ability to laugh at danger.
His customary dash, a pleasing levity of manner, was gone, giving place
to a suggestion of strain, so that he seemed always on the alert against
himself, determined to edit in advance his answer to every question.

Wilton had chosen a chair which placed him directly opposite Hastings
and at the same time enabled him to watch Webster. He was smoking a
cigar, and, through the haze that floated up just then from his lips, he
gave the detective a long, searching look, to which Hastings paid no
attention.

Webster talked nearly twenty minutes, explaining his eagerness to be
"thoroughly frank as to every detail," reviewing the evidence brought
out by the inquest, and criticising the action of the jury, but
producing nothing new. Occasionally he left the piano and paced the
floor, smoking interminably, lighting the fresh cigarette from the stub
of the old, obviously strung to the limit of his nervous strength.
Hastings detected a little twitching of the muscles at the corners of
his mouth, and the too frequent winking of his eyes.

Judge Wilton had told him, Webster continued, of Mrs. Brace's charge
that he wanted to marry Miss Sloane because of financial pressure; there
was not a word of truth in it; he had already arranged for a loan to
make that payment when it fell due. He was, however, aware of his
unenviable position, and he wanted to give the detective every
assistance possible, in that way assuring his own prompt relief from
embarrassment.

By this time, Hastings had mapped out his line of questioning, his
assault on Webster's reticence.

"That's the right idea!" he said, getting to his feet. "Let's go to
work."

They saw the change in him. Instead of the genial, drawling, slow-moving
old fellow who had seemed thankful for anything he might chance to
hear, they were confronted now by an aroused, quick-thinking man whose
words came from him with a sharp, clipped-off effect, and whose
questions scouted the whole field of their possible and probable
information. He stood leaning his elbows on the other end of the piano,
facing Webster across the polished length of its broad top. His
dominance of the night before, in the library, had returned.

"Now, Mr. Webster," he began, innocent of threat, "as things stack up at
present, only two people had the semblance of a motive for killing
Mildred Brace--either Eugene Russell killed her out of jealousy of you;
or you killed her to silence her demands. Do you see that?"

He had put back his head a little and was peering at Webster under his
spectacle-rims, down the line of his nose. He saw how the other fought
down the impulse to deny, hesitating before answering, with a laugh on a
high note, like derision:

"I suppose that's what a lot of people will say."

"Precisely. Now, I've just had a talk with this Russell--caught him
after the inquest. I believe there's something rotten about that alibi
of his; but I couldn't shake him; and the Otis testimony's sound. So
we'll have to quit counting on Russell's proving his own guilt. We've
got that little job on our hands, and the best way to handle it is to
prove your innocence. See that?"

The bow with which Webster acknowledged this statement was a curious
mingling of grace and mockery. The detective ignored it.

"And," he continued, "there's only one way for you to come whole out of
this muddle--frankness. I'm working for you; you know that. Tell me
everything you know, and we've got a chance to win. The innocent man who
tries to twist black into white is an innocent fool." He looked swiftly
to Wilton, who was leaning far back in his chair, head lolling slowly
from side to side, the picture of indifference. "Isn't that so, judge?"

"Quite," Wilton agreed, pausing to remove his cigar from his mouth.

"Of course, it's so," Webster said curtly. "I've just told you so.
That's why I've decided--the judge and I have talked it over--to give
you something in confidence."

"One moment!" Hastings warned him. "Maybe, I won't take it in
confidence--if it's something incriminating you."

"Yes; you've phrased that unfortunately, Berne," the judge put in,
tilting his head on the chair-back to meet the detective's look.

Webster was nonplussed. Apparently, his surprise came from the judge's
remark rather than from the detective's refusal to assume the rôle of
confidant. Hastings inferred that Wilton, agreeing beforehand to the
proposal being advanced, had changed his mind after entering the room.

"Hastings is right," the judge concluded; "even if he's on your side,
you can't expect him to be tied up blind that way by a suspected
man--and you're just that, Berne."

Seeing Webster's uncertainty, Hastings took another course.

"I think I know what you're talking about, Mr. Webster," he said,
matter-of-fact. "Your nail-file's missing from your dressing
case--disappeared since yesterday morning."

"You know that!" Berne flashed, suddenly angry. "And you're holding it
over me!"

Open hostility was in every feature of his face; his lips twitched to
the sharp intake of his breath.

"Why don't you look at it another way?" the old man countered quickly.
"If I'd told the coroner about it--if I'd told him also that the size of
that nail-file, judging from the rest of the dressing case, matched that
of the one used for the blade of the dagger, matched it as well as
Russell's--what then?"

"He's right, Berne," Wilton cautioned again. "He's taken the friendly
course."

"I understand that, judge," Berne said; and, without answering Hastings,
turned squarely to Wilton: "But it's a thin clue. He admits Russell lost
a nail-file, too."

"Several years ago," Hastings goaded, so that Webster pivoted on his
heel to face him; "you lost yours when?--last night?--this morning?"

"I don't know! I noticed its absence this morning."

"There you are!--But," Hastings qualified, to avoid the quarrel, "the
nail-file isn't much of a clue if unsupported." He approached
cordiality. "And I appreciate your intending to tell me. That was what
you intended to give me in confidence, wasn't it?"

"Yes," Webster answered, half-sullen.

Hastings changed the subject again.

"Did you know Mildred Brace intended to clear out, leave Washington,
today?"

"Why, no!" Webster shot that out in genuine surprise.

"I got it from Russell," Hastings informed, and went at once to another
topic.

"And that brings us to the letter. Judge Wilton tell you about that?"

Webster was lighting a cigarette, with difficulty holding the fire of
the old one to the end of the new. The operation seemed to entail hard
labour for him.

"In the grey envelope?" he responded, drawing on the cigarette. "Yes. I
didn't get it."

He took off his coat. The heat oppressed him. At frequent intervals he
passed his handkerchief around the inside of his collar, which was
wilting. Now, more than ever, he gave the impression of exaggerated
watchfulness, as if he attempted prevision of the detective's questions.

"Nobody got it, so far as I can learn," Hastings said, a note of
sternness breaking through the surface of his tone. "It vanished into
thin air. That's the most mysterious thing about this mysterious
murder."

He, in his turn, began pacing the floor, a short distance to and fro in
front of Judge Wilton's chair, his hands behind him, flopping the baggy
tail of his coat from side to side.

"You doubtless see the gravity of the facts: that letter was mailed to
Sloanehurst. Russell has just told me so. She waved it in his face, to
taunt him about you, before she dropped it into the mail-box. He
swears"--Hastings stopped, at the far end of his pacing, and looked hard
at Webster--"it was addressed to you."

Webster, again with his queer, high-pitched laugh, like derision, threw
back his head and took two long strides toward the centre of the room.
There he stood a moment, hands in his pockets, while he stared at the
toe of his right shoe, which he was carefully adjusting to a crack in
the flooring.

Judge Wilton made his chair crackle as he moved to look at Webster. It
was the weight of the detective's gaze, however, that drew the lawyer's
attention; when he looked up, his eyes were half-closed, as if the light
had suddenly become painful to them.

"That would be Russell's game, wouldn't it?" he retorted, at last.

"Mrs. Brace told me the same thing," Hastings said quietly, flashing a
look at Wilton and back to the other.

"Damn her!" Webster broke forth with such vehemence that Wilton stared
at him in amazement. "Damn her! And that's the first time I ever said
that of a woman. It's as I suspected, as I expected. She's begun some
sort of a crooked game!"

He trembled like a man with a chill. Hastings gave him no time to
recover himself.

"You know Mrs. Brace, then? Know her well?" he pressed.

"Well enough!" Webster retorted with hot repugnance. "Well enough,
although I never had but one conversation with her--if you may call that
bedlam wildness a conversation. She came to my office the second day
after I'd dismissed her daughter. She made a scene. She charged me with
ruining her daughter's life, threatened suit for breach of promise. She
said she'd 'get even' with me if it took her the rest of her life. I
don't as a rule pay much attention to violent women, Mr. Hastings; but
there was something about her that affected me strongly, she's
implacable, and like stone, not like a woman. You saw her--understand
what I mean?"

"Perfectly," agreed Hastings.

There flashed across his mind a picture of that incomprehensible woman's
face, the black line of her eyebrows lifted half-way to her hair, the
abnormal wetness of her lips thickened by a sneer. "If she's been after
this man for two weeks," he thought, "I can understand his trembles!"

But he hurried the inquiry.

"So you think she lied about that letter?"

"Of course!" Webster laughed on a high note. "Next, I suppose, she'll
produce the letter."

"She can't very well do that."

Something in his voice alarmed the suspected man.

"What do you mean?" he asked.

Hastings smiled.

"What do you mean?" Webster asked again, his voice lowered, and came a
step nearer to the detective.

Hastings took a piece of paper from his pocket.

"Here's the flap of the grey envelope," he said, as if that was all the
information he meant to impart.

Webster urged him, with eyes and voice:

"Well?"

"And on the back of it is some of Mildred Brace's handwriting."

The old man examined the piece of paper with every show of absorption.
He could hear Webster's hurried breathing, and the gulp when he
swallowed the lump in his throat.

The scene had got hold of Wilton also. Leaning forward in his chair,
his lips half-parted, the thumb and forefinger of his right hand
mechanically fubbing out his cigar, so that a little stream of fire
trickled to the floor, he gazed unwinking at the envelope flap.

Webster went a step nearer to Hastings, and stood, passing his hand
across the top of his head and staring again out of his half-closed
eyes, as if the light had hurt them.

"And," the old man said, regarding Webster keenly but keeping any hint
of accusation out of his voice, "I found it last night in the
fireplace, behind the screen, in your room upstairs."

He paused, looking toward the door, his attention caught by a noise in
the hall.

Webster laughed, on the high, derisive note. He was noticeably pale.

"Come, man!" Judge Wilton said, harsh and imperious. "Can't you see the
boy's suffering? What's written on it?"

"What difference does it make--the writing?" Webster objected, with a
movement of his shoulders that looked like a great effort to pull
himself together. "If there's any at all, it's faked. Faked! That's what
it is. People don't write on the inside of envelope flaps."

His face did not express the assurance he tried to put into his voice.
He went back to the piano and leaned on it, his posture such that it
might have indicated a nonchalant ease or, equally well, might have
betrayed his desperate need of support.

"This letter incident can't be waved away," Hastings, without handing
over the scrap of envelope, proceeded in even, measured tones--using his
sentences as if they were hammers with which he assailed the young
lawyer's remnants of self-control. "You're not trifling with a jury, Mr.
Webster. I believe I know as much about the value of facts, this kind of
facts, as you do. Consider what you're up against. You----"

Webster put up a hand in protest, the fingers so unsteady that they
dropped the cigarette which he had been on the point of lighting.

"Just a moment!" the old man commanded him. "This Mildred Brace claimed
she had suffered injury at your hands. You fired her out of your office.
She and her mother afterwards pursued you. She came out here in the
middle of the night, where she knew you were. She was murdered, and by a
weapon whose blade may have been fashioned from an article you
possessed, an article which is now missing, missing since you came to
Sloanehurst this time. You were found bending over the dead body.

"Her mother and her closest friend, her would-be fiancé, say she wrote
to you Friday night, addressing her letter to Sloanehurst. The flap of
an envelope, identified by her mother and friend, and bearing the
impression in ink of her handwriting, is found in the fireplace of your
room here. The man who followed her out here, who might have been
suspected of the murder, has proved an alibi.

"Now, I ask you, as a lawyer and a sensible man, who's going to believe
that she came out here without having notified you of her coming? Who,
as facts stand now, is going to believe anything but that you, desperate
with the fear that she would make revelations which would prevent your
marriage to Miss Sloane and keep you from access to an immense amount of
money which you needed--who's going to believe you didn't kill her,
didn't strike her down, there in the night, according to a premeditated
plan, with a dagger which, for better protection of yourself, you had
manufactured in a way which you hoped would make it beyond
identification? Who's----"

Wilton intervened again.

"What's your object, Hastings?" he demanded, springing from his chair.
"You're treating Berne as if he'd killed the woman and you could prove
it!"

Webster was swaying on his feet, falling a little away from the piano
and reeling against it again, his elbows sliding back and forth on its
top. He was extremely pale; even his lips, still stiff and twisted to
what he thought was a belittling smile, were white. He looked at the
detective as a man might gaze at an advancing terror which he could
neither resist nor flee. His going to pieces was so complete, so
absolute, that it astonished Hastings.

"And you, both of you," the old man retorted to Wilton's protest;
"you're treating me as if I were a meddlesome outsider intent on
'framing up' a case, instead of the representative of the Sloane
family--at least, of Miss Lucille Sloane! Why's that?"

"Tell me what's on that paper," Webster said hoarsely, as if he had not
heard the colloquy of the other two.

He held up a trembling hand, but without taking a step. He still swayed,
like a man dangled on strings, against the piano.

"Yes; tell him!" urged Wilton.

Hastings handed Webster the envelope flap. Instead of looking at it,
Webster let it drop on the piano.

"One of the words," Hastings said, "is 'pursuit.' The other two are
uncompleted."

"And it's her handwriting, the daughter's?" Wilton said.

"Beyond a doubt."

Webster kept his unwinking eyes on the detective, apparently unable to
break the spell that held him. For a long moment, he had said nothing.
When he did speak, it was with manifest difficulty. His words came in a
screaming whisper:

"Then, I'm in desperate shape!"

"Nonsense, man!" Judge Wilton protested, his voice raised, and, going to
his side, struck him sharply between the shoulders. "Get yourself
together, Berne! Brace up!"

The effect on the collapsing man was, in a way, magical. He stood erect
in response to the blow, his elbows no longer seeking support on the
piano. He got his eyes away from Hastings and looked at the judge as a
man coming out of a sound sleep might have done. For a few seconds, he
had one hand over his mouth, as if, by actual manipulation, he would
gain control of the muscles of his lips.

"I feel better," he said at last, dropping the hand from before his face
and squaring his shoulders. "I don't know what hit me. If I'd--you
know," he hesitated, frowning, "if I'd killed the woman, I couldn't have
acted the coward more thoroughly."

Hastings went through with what he wanted to say:

"About that letter, Mr. Webster: have you any idea, can you advance any
theory, as to how that piece of the envelope got into your room?"

Webster was passing his hand across his hair now, and breathing in a
deep, gusty fashion.

"Not the faintest," he replied, hoarsely.

"That's all, then, gentlemen!" Hastings said, so abruptly that both of
them started. "We don't seem to have gone very far ahead with this
business. We won't, until you--particularly you, Webster--tell me what
you know. It's your own affair----"

"My dear sir----" Judge Wilton began.

"Let me finish!" Hastings spoke indignantly. "I'm no fool; I know when
I'm trifled with. Understand me: I don't say you got that letter, Mr.
Webster; I don't say you ever saw it; I don't know the truth of it--yet.
I do say you've deliberately refused to respond to my requests for
cooperation. I do say you'd prefer to have me out of this case
altogether. I know it, although I'm not clear as to your motives--or
yours, judge. You were anxious enough, you said when we talked at
Sloane's door, for me to go on with it. If you're still of that opinion,
I advise you to advise your friend here to be more outspoken with me.
I'll give you this straight: if I can't be corn, I won't be shucks. But
I intend to be corn. I'm going to conduct this investigation as I see
fit. I won't be turned aside; I won't play second to your lead!"

He was fine in his intensity. Astounded by his vehemence, the two men he
addressed were silent, meeting his keen and steady scrutiny.

He smiled, and, as he did so, they were aware, with an emotion like
shock, that his whole face mirrored forth a genuine and warm
self-satisfaction. The thing was as plain as if he had spoken it aloud:
he had gotten out of the interview what he wanted. Their recognition of
this fact increased their blankness.

"You know my position now," he added, no longer denunciatory. "If you
change your minds, that will be great! I want all the help I can get.
And, take it from me, young man, you can't afford to throw away any you
can get."

"Threats?"

Webster had shot out the one word with cool insolence before the judge
could begin a conciliatory remark. The change in the lawyer's manner was
so unpleasant, the insult so palpably deliberate, that Hastings could
not mistake the purpose back of it. Webster regarded him out of burning
eyes.

"No; not threats," Hastings answered him in a voice that was cold as
ice. "I think you understand what I mean. I know too little, and I
suspect too much, to drop my search for the murderer of that woman."

Judge Wilton tried to placate him:

"I don't see what your complaint is, Hastings. We----"

A smothered, half-articulate cry from Webster interrupted him. Hastings,
first to spring forward, caught the falling man by his arm, breaking the
force of the fall. He had clutched the edge of the piano as his legs
gave under him. That, and the quickness of the detective, made the fall
more like a gentle sliding to the floor.

Save for the one, gurgling outcry, no word came from him. He was
unconscious, his colourless lips again twisted to that poor semblance of
smiling defiance which Hastings had noticed at the beginning of the
interview.


X

THE WHISPERED CONFERENCE


Dr. Garnet, reaching Sloanehurst half an hour later, found Webster in
complete collapse. He declared that for at least several days the sick
man must be kept quiet. He could not be moved to his apartment in
Washington, nor could he be subjected to questioning about anything.

"That is," he explained, "for three or four days--possibly longer. He's
critically ill. But for my knowledge of the terrific shock he's
sustained as a result of the murder, I'd be inclined to say he'd broken
down after a long, steady nervous strain.

"I'll have a nurse out to look after him. Miss Sloane has volunteered,
but she has troubles of her own."

Judge Wilton took the news to Hastings, who was on the front porch,
whittling, waiting to see Lucille before returning to Washington.

"I think Garnet's right," Wilton added. "I thought, even before last
night, Berne acted as if he'd been worn out. And you handled him rather
roughly. That sort of questioning, tantalizing, keeping a man on
tenterhooks, knocks the metal out of a high-strung temperament like his.
I don't mind telling you it had me pretty well worked up."

"I'm sorry it knocked him out," Hastings said. "All I wanted was the
facts. He wasn't frank with me."

"I came out here to talk about that," Wilton retorted, brusquely.
"You're all wrong there, Hastings! The boy's broken all to pieces. He
sees clearly, too clearly, the weight of suspicion against him. You've
mistaken his panic for hostility toward yourself."

The old man was unconvinced, and showed it.

"Suspicion doesn't usually knock a man into a cocked hat--unless there's
something to base it on," he contended.

"All right; I give up," Wilton said, with a short laugh. "All I know is,
he came to me before we saw you in the music room, and told me he wanted
me to be there, to see that he omitted not even a detail of what he
knew."

Hastings, looking up from the intricate pattern he was carving,
challenged the judge:

"Has it occurred to you that, if he's not guilty, he might suspect
somebody else in this house, might be trying to shield that person?"

In the inconsiderable pause that followed, Wilton's lips, parting for
an incredulous smile, showed the top of his tongue against his teeth, as
if set for pronunciation of the letter "S." Hastings, in a mental flash,
saw him on the point of exclaiming: "Sloane!" But, if that was in his
mind, he put it down, elaborating the smile to a laughing protest:

"That's going far afield, isn't it?"

Hastings smiled in return: "Maybe so, but it's a possibility--and
possibilities have to be dealt with."

"Which reminds me," the judge said, now all amiability; "don't forget
I'm always at your service in this affair. I see now that you might have
preferred to question Webster alone, in the music room; but my
confidence in his innocence blinded me to the fact that you could regard
him as actually guilty. I expected nothing but a friendly conference,
not a fierce cross-examination."

"It didn't matter at all," Hastings matched Wilton's cordial tone; "and
I appreciate your offer, judge. Suppose you tell me anything that occurs
to you, anything that will throw light on this case any time; and I'll
act as go-between for you with the authorities--if necessary."

"You mean----?"

"I'd like to do the talking for this family and its friends. I can work
better if I can handle things myself. The half of my job is to save the
Sloanes from as many wild rumours as I can."

Wilton nodded approval.

"How about Arthur? You want me to take any questions to him for you?"

"No; thanks.--But," Hastings added, "you might make him see the
necessity of telling me what he saw last night. If he doesn't come out
with it, he'll make it all the harder on Webster."

"I don't think he saw anything."

"Didn't he? Why'd he refuse to testify before the coroner, then?"

Sheriff Crown's car came whirling up the driveway; and Hastings spoke
hurriedly:

"You know he's not as sick as he makes out. He's got to tell me what he
knows, judge! He's holding back something. That's why he wants to make
me so mad I'll quit the case. Who's he shielding? That's what people
will want to know."

Wilton pondered that.

"I'll see what I can do," he finally agreed. "According to you, it may
appear--people may suspect--that Webster's guilty or shielding somebody
else; and Arthur's guilty or shielding Webster!"

When Mr. Crown reached the porch, they were discussing Webster's
condition, and Hastings, with the aid of the judge's penknife, was
tightening a screw in his big barlowesque blade. They were careful to
say nothing that might arouse the sheriff's suspicion of their
compact--an agreement whereby a private detective, and not the law's
representative, was to have the benefit of all the judge's information
bearing on the murder.

Mr. Crown, however, was dissatisfied.

"I'm tied up!" he complained, nursing with forefinger and thumb his
knuckle-like chin. "The only place I can get information is at the wrong
end--Russell!"

"What's the matter with me?" the detective asked amiably. "I'll be glad
to help--if you think I can."

"What good's that to me?" He wore his best politician's smile, but there
was resentment in his voice. "Your job is keeping things quiet--for
Sloanehurst. Mr. Sloane's ill, too ill to see me without endangering his
life, so his funeral-faced valet tells me. Miss Lucille says, politely
enough, she's told all she knows, told it on the stand, and I'm to go to
you if I want anything more from her. The judge here knows nothing about
the inside relationships of the family and Webster, or of Webster and
the Brace girl. And Webster's down and out, thoroughly and
conveniently! If all that don't catch your uncle Robert where the hair's
short, I'll quit!"

"What do you want to know?" Hastings countered. "You've had access to
everything, far as I can see."

Reply to that was delayed by the appearance of Jarvis, summoning the
judge to Arthur Sloane's room.

"I want to get at Webster," Crown told Hastings. "And here's why: if
Russell didn't kill her, Webster did."

"Why, you've weakened!" the old man guyed head bent over his whittling.
"You had Russell's goose cooked this morning--roasted to a rich, dark
brown!"

"Yes; and if I could break down his alibi, I'd still have him cooked!"

"You accept the alibi, then?"

"Sure, I accept it."

"I don't."

"Why don't you?" objected Crown. "He didn't have an aeroplane in his hip
pocket, did he? That's the only way he could have covered those four
miles in fifteen minutes.--Or does his alibi have to fall in order to
save Miss Sloane's fiancé?"

He slapped his thigh and thrust out his bristly moustache. "You're paid
to fasten the thing on Russell," he said, clearly pugnacious. "I don't
expect you to help me work against Webster! I'm not that simple!"

The old man, with a gesture no more arresting than to point at the
sheriff with the piece of wood in his left hand, made the official jaw
drop almost to the official chest.

"Mr. Crown," he said, "get this, once and for all: a man ain't
necessarily a crook because he's once worked for the government. I'm as
anxious to find the guilty man now, every time, as when I was in the
Department of Justice. And I intend to. From now on, you'll give me
credit for that!--Won't you, Mr. Sheriff?"

Crown apologized. "I'm worried; that's what. I'm up a gum stump and
can't get down."

"All right, but don't try to make a ladder out of me! Why don't you look
into that alibi?"

Crown was irritated again. "What do you stick to that for?"

"Because," Hastings declared, "I'm ready to swear-and-cross-my-heart he
lied when he said he ran that four miles. I'm ready to swear he was here
when the murder was done. When a man's got as good an alibi as he said
he had, his adam's-apple don't play 'Yankee Doodle' on his windpipe."

"Is that so!"

"It is--and here's another thing: when's Mrs. Brace going to break
loose?"

"Now, you're talking!" agreed Crown, with momentary enthusiasm. "She
told me this morning she'd help me show up Webster--she wouldn't have it
that Russell killed the girl. Foxy business! Mixed up in it herself, she
runs to the rescue of the man she----"

The sheriff paused, unable to bring that reasoning to its logical
conclusion.

"No," he said, dejected; "I can't believe she put him up to murdering
her daughter."

"That woman," Hastings said, "is capable of anything--anything! We're
going to find she's terrible, I tell you, Crown. She's mixed up in the
murder somehow--and, if you don't find out how, I will!"

"How can we get her?" Crown argued. "She was in her flat when the
killing was done. We've searched these grounds, and found nothing to
incriminate anybody. All we've got is a strong suspicion against two
men. She's out and away."

"Not if we watch her. She's promised to make trouble--she'll be lucky if
she makes none for herself. Let's keep after her."

"I'm on! But," the sheriff reminded, again half-hearted, "that won't get
us anything soon. She won't leave her flat before the funeral."

"That won't keep her quiet very long," Hastings contended. "She told me
the funeral would be at nine o'clock tomorrow morning--from an
undertaker's.--Anyway, I've instructed one of my assistants to keep
track of her. I'm not counting on her grief absorbing her, even for
today."

But he saw that Crown was not greatly impressed with the possibility of
finding the murderer through Mrs. Brace. The sheriff was engrossed in
mental precautions against being misled by "the Sloanehurst detective."

He was still in that mood when Miss Sloane sent for Hastings.

The detective found her in the music room. She had taken the chair which
Judge Wilton had occupied an hour before, and was leaning one elbow on
an arm of it, her chin resting in the cup of her hand. Her dress--a
filmy lavender so light that it shaded almost to pink, and magically
made to bring out the grace of her figure--drew his attention to the
slight sag of her shoulders, suggestive of great weariness.

But he was captivated anew by her grave loveliness, and by her
fortitude. She betrayed her agitation only in the fine tremour in her
hands and a certain slowness in her words.

On the porch, talking to Judge Wilton, he had wondered, in a moment of
irritation, why he continued on the case against so much apparent
opposition in the very household which he sought to help. He knew now
that neither his sense of duty nor his fee was the deciding influence.
He stayed because this girl needed him, because he had seen in her eyes
last night the haggard look of an unspeakable suspicion.

"You wanted to see me--is there anything special?" she asked him,
immediately alert.

"Yes; there is, Miss Sloane," he said, careful to put into his voice all
the sympathy he felt for her.

"Yes?" She was looking at him with steady eyes.

"It's this, and I want you to bear in mind that I wouldn't bring it up
but for my desire to put an end to your uncertainty: I'm afraid you
haven't told me everything you know, everything you saw last night
in----"

When she would have spoken, he put up a warning hand.

"Let me explain, please. Don't commit yourself until you see what I
mean. Judge Wilton and Mr. Webster seem to think I'm not needed here. It
may be a natural attitude--for them. They're both lawyers, and to
lawyers a mere detective doesn't amount to much."

"Oh, I'm sure it isn't that," she flashed out, apologizing.

"Oh, I don't mind, personally," he said, with a smile for which she
felt grateful. "As I say, it's natural for them to think that way,
perhaps. Your father, however, is not a lawyer; and, when I went into
his room at your request, he took pains to offend me, insult me, several
times." That brought a faint flush to her face. "So, that leaves only
you to give me facts which I must have--if they exist."

He became more urgent.

"And you employed me, Miss Sloane; you appealed to me when you were at a
loss where to turn. I'm only fair to myself as well as to you when I
tell you that your distress, far more than financial considerations,
persuaded me to undertake this work without first consulting your
father."

She leaned toward him, bending from the waist, her eyes slightly
widened, so that their effect was to give her a startled air.

"You don't mean you'll give it up!" she said, plainly entreating. "You
won't give it up!"

"Are you quite sure you don't want me to give it up? Judge Wilton has
asked me twice, out of politeness, not to give it up. Are you merely
being polite?"

She smiled, looking tired, and shook her head.

"Really, Mr. Hastings, if you were to desert us now, I should be
desperate--altogether. Desperate! Just that."

"I can't desert you," he said gently. "As I told Mr. Webster, I know too
little and I suspect too much to do that."

Before she spoke again, she looked at him intently, drawing in her under
lip a little against her teeth.

"What, Mr. Hastings?" she asked, then. "What do you suspect?"

"Let me answer that with a question," he suggested. "Last night, your
one idea was that I could protect you and your father, everybody in the
house here, by acting as your spokesman. I think you wanted to set me up
as a buffer between all of you on the one side and the authorities and
the reporters on the other. You wanted things kept down, nothing to get
out beyond that which was unavoidable. Wasn't that it?"

"Yes; it was," she admitted, not seeing where his question led.

"You were afraid, then, that something incriminating might be divulged,
weren't you?"

"Oh, no!" she denied instantly.

"I mean something which might seem incriminating. You trusted the person
whom it would seem to incriminate; and you wanted time for the murderer
to be found without, in the meantime, having the adverse circumstance
made public. Isn't that it, Miss Sloane?"

"Yes--practically."

"Let's be clear on that. Your fear was that too much questioning of you
or the other person might result in a slip-up--might make you or him
mention the apparently damaging incident, with disastrous effect. Wasn't
that it?"

"Yes; that was it."

"Now, what was that apparently incriminating incident?"

She started. He had brought her so directly to the confession that she
saw now the impossibility of withholding what he sought.

"It may be," he tried to lighten her responsibility, "the very thing
that Webster and the judge have concealed--for I'm sure they're keeping
something back. Perhaps, if I knew it, things would be easier. People
closely affected by a crime are the last to judge such things
accurately."

She gave a long breath of relief, looking at him with perplexity
nevertheless.

"Yes--I know. That was why I came to you--last night--in the beginning."

"And it was about them, Webster and Wilton," he drew the conclusion for
her, still encouraging her with his smile, regarding her over the rims
of his spectacles with a fatherly kindness.

She turned from him and looked out of the window. It was the middle of a
hot, still day, no breeze stirring, and wonderfully quiet. For the
moment, there was no sound, in the house or outside.

"Oh!" she cried, her voice a revelation of the extent to which her
doubts had oppressed her. "It was like that, out there--quiet, still! If
you could only understand!"

"My dear child," he said, "rely on me. The sheriff is bound to assert
himself, to keep in the front of things; he's that kind of a man. He'll
make an arrest any time, or announce that he will. Don't you see the
danger?" He leaned forward and took her hand, a move to which she seemed
oblivious. "Don't you see I must have facts to go on--if I'm to help
you?"

At that, she disengaged her hand, and sat very straight, her face again
a little turned from him. A twitch, like a shudder cut short, moved her
whole body, so that the heel of her slipper rapped smartly on the floor.

"I wish," she whispered dully, "I wish I knew what to do!"

"Tell me," he urged, as if he spoke to a child.

She showed him her face, very white, with sudden shadows under the
eyes.

"I must, I think; I must tell you," she said, not much louder than the
previous whisper. "You were right. I didn't tell the whole story of what
I saw. Believe me, I didn't think it mattered. I thought, really, things
would right themselves and explanations be unnecessary. But you
knew--didn't you?"

"Yes. I knew." He realized her ordeal, helping her through it. "What
were they doing?"

She held her chin high.

"It was all true, what I told you in the library, my being waked up by
father's moving about, my going to the window, my seeing Berne and the
judge facing each other across--her--there at the end of the awful
yellow arm of light. But that wasn't all. The moment the light flashed
on, the judge threw back his head a little, like a man about to cry out,
shout for help. I am sure that was it.

"But Berne was too quick for that. Berne put out his hand; his arm shot
across her; and his hand closed the judge's mouth. The judge made no
noise whatever, but he shook his head from side to side two or three
times--I'm not certain how many--while Berne leant over the body and
whispered to him. It seemed to me I could almost hear the words, but I
didn't.

"Then Berne took his hand from the judge's mouth. I think, before that,
the judge made a sign, tried to nod his head up and down, to show he
would do as Berne said. Then, when they saw she was dead, they both
hurried around the corner to the front of the house, and I heard them
come in; I heard the judge call to father and run up to your room."

She was alarmed then by the amazement and disapproval in his face.

"Oh!" she said, and this time she took his hand. "You see! You see! You
don't understand! You think Berne killed her!"

"I don't know," he said, wondering. "I must think." For the moment,
indignation swept him. "Wilton! A judge, a judge!--keeping quiet on a
thing like that! I must think."


XI

MOTIVES REVEALED


She let go his hand and, still leaning toward him, waited for him to
speak. A confusion of misgivings assailed her--she regretted having
confided in him. If his anger embraced Berne as well as Judge Wilton,
she had done nothing but harm!

Seeing her dismay, he tried again to reassure her.

"But no matter!" he minimized his own sense of shock. "I'm sure I'll
understand if you'll tell me more--your explanation."

Obviously, the only inference he could draw from her story as she had
told it was that Webster had killed the woman and, found bending over
her body, had sprung forward to silence the man who had discovered him.
Nevertheless, it was equally evident that she was sincere in attributing
to Webster a different motive for preventing the judge's outcry.
Consideration of that persuaded Hastings that she could give him facts
which would change the whole aspect of the crime.

Her hesitance now made him uneasy; he recognized the necessity of
increasing her reliance upon him. If she told him only a part of what
she knew, he would be scarcely in a better position than before.

"Naturally," he added, "you can throw light on the whole incident--light
by which I must be guided, to a great degree."

"If Berne were not ill," she responded to that, "I wouldn't tell.--It's
because he's lying up there, his lips closed, unable to keep a look-out
for developments, at the mercy of what the sheriff may do or
say!--That's why I feel so dreadfully the need of help, Mr. Hastings!"

She slid back in her chair, moving farther from him, as if his kindly
gaze disconcerted her.

"If he hadn't suffered this collapse, I should have left the matter to
him, I think. But now--now I can't!" She straightened again, her chin
up, the signal with her of final decision. "He acted on his impulsive
desire to prevent my being shocked by that discovery--that horror out
there on the lawn. Things had happened to convince him that such a
thing, shouted through the night, would be a terrific blow to me. I'm
sure that that was the only idea he had when he put his hand over Judge
Wilton's mouth."

"I can believe that," he said. "Tell me why you believe it."

"Oh!" she protested, hands clenched on her knees; "if it affected only
him and me!"

Her suspicion of her father recurred to him. It was, he thought, back of
the terror he saw in her eyes now.

"But it does affect only him and me, after all!" she continued fiercely,
as much to strengthen herself in what she wanted to believe as to force
him to that belief. "Let me tell you the whole affair, from beginning to
end."

She proceeded in a low tone, the words slower, as if she laboured for
precision and clarity.

"I must go back to Friday--the night before last--it seems months ago! I
had heard that Berne had become involved in some sort of relationship
with his stenographer--that she had been dismissed from his office and
refused to accept the dismissal as final. I mean, of course, I heard she
was in love with him, and he'd been in love with her--or should have
been.

"It was told me by a friend of mine in Washington, Lucy Carnly. They vary
in height from five to ten and twenty feet; with one, the Grave
Creek Mound, seventy feet high. They are classified by Squier and
Davis, who surveyed and examined them, into "Mounds of Sacrifice,"
"Mounds of Sepulture," and "Mounds of Observation."

The first kind only in which the so-called altars are found will be
noticed.

At the center of each of the mounds of this class, and on the ground
level there was found a bed of clay artificially formed into a shallow
basin and then hardened by fire These basins have been termed
"altars" by Squier and Davis in their work on the "Ancient Monuments of
the Mississippi Valley." Mr. Squier remarks in a resume of this work
published separately that "some are round others elliptical and
others square or parallelograms....

The usual dimensions are from five to eight feet."

[Footnote: Trans. Am Eth Soc]
[Illustration: FIG 49--Mound Artificial Clay Basin]
At Mound City on the Scioto River there is a group of twenty six
mounds in one inclosure an engraving of one of which taken from Mr.

Squier's paper is shown in Fig 49. It is seven feet high by fifty
five feet base and contained the artificial clay basin in question. 'F'
is the basin which is round, and measures from c to d nine feet, and
from a to e five feet. The height from b to e is twenty inches, and the
dip of the curve a to e is nine inches.
"The body of the altar," Mr. Squier remarks, "is burned throughout,
though in a greater degree within the basin where it was so hard
as to resist the blow of a heavy hatchet, the instrument rebounding
as if struck upon a rock.

The basin, or hollow of the altar, was filled up even full with dry
ashes, intermingled with which were some fragments of pottery.... One of
the vases, taken in fragments from the mound, has been very nearly
restored. The sketch B presents its outlines and the character of its
ornaments. Its height is six, and its greatest diameter eight inches....
Above the deposit of ashes, and covering the entire basin, was a
layer of silvery or opaque mica in sheets overlapping each other,
and immediately over the center of the basin was heaped a quantity
of human bones, probably the amount of a single skeleton, in
fragments.

The position of these is indicated by O in the section. The layer of mica
and calcined bones, it should be remarked to prevent misapprehension,
was peculiar to this individual mound, and not found in any other
of the class."

[Footnote: Observations, etc, Trans Am Eth Soc ii p 161] Calcined bones,
however, were found in three out of some twenty mounds of this
class examined.

[Footnote: Ane Monte pp. 157, 159]

The question now recurs, what was the use of the basin of clay, and what
the object of the mound itself?

The terms "altars" and "mounds of sacrifice," employed in describing
them, imply that human sacrifices were offered on these "altars," "upon
which glowed the sacrificial fires."

[Footnote: Ib, p. 15]
There is no propriety, I respectfully submit, in the use of either of
these terms, or in the conclusions they would force us to adopt Human
sacrifices were unknown in the Lower Status of barbarism; but they
were introduced in the Middle Status, when the first organized
priesthood, distinguished by their apparel, appears.

In parts of Mexico, and, it is claimed, in parts of Central America,
these atrocious rites were performed, but they were unknown in
New Mexico, and, without better evidence than these miscalled
altars afford, they cannot be fastened upon the Mound-Builders.

Moreover, these clay beds were not adapted to the barbarous work. Wherever
human sacrifices are known to have occurred among the American aborigines,
the place was an elevated mound platform, in the nature of a temple,
as the Teocalli of Mexico, and the raised altar or sacrificial stone stood
before the idol in whose worship the rites were performed.
There is neither a temple nor an idol, but a hollow bed of clay
covered by a mound raised in honor over the ashes of a deceased
chief, for assuredly such a mound would not have been raised over
the ashes of a victim.

Indians never exchanged prisoners of war. Adoption or burning at the
stake was the alternative of capture; but no mound was ever raised over
the burned remains. Human sacrifices seem to have originated in an attempt
to utilize the predetermined death of prisoners of war in the
service of the gods, until slavery finally offered a profitable
substitute, in the Upper Status of barbarism.

Another use suggests itself for this artificial basin more in accordance
with Indian usages and customs, namely, that cremation of the body
of a deceased chief was performed upon it, after which the mound
in question was raised over his ashes in accordance with Indian
custom.

Cremation was practiced by the Village Indians only among the
American aborigines.

It was not general even among them, burial in the ground being the
common usage; but it was more or less general in the case of chiefs.

The mode of cremation varied in different areas, but the full
particulars are not given in any instance.

In Nicaragua the body of a deceased chief of the highest grade was
wrapped in clothes and suspended by ropes before a fire until the
body was baked to dryness; then, after keeping it a year, it was taken
to the market-place, where they burned it, believing that the smoke
went "to the place where the dead man's soul was."

[Footnote:

Herrera's Hist. America, ii, 133.]

From this or some similar conceit the practice of cremation probably
originated.

THE PROBABLE NUMBERS OF THE MOUND-BUILDERS.

There are no reasons for supposing, from the number of their villages,
that the Mound-Builders were a numerous people.

My friend, Prof. Charles Whittlesey, in a discussion of the rate of
increase of the human race, estimates them at 500,000. [Footnote:
Trans.
Am. Ass. for the Adv. of Science, 1873, p. 320.]
With thanks for the moderateness of the estimate, one-third of that
number would have been more satisfactory.

Dense populations, an expression sometimes applied to the Mound-Builders,
have never existed without either flocks and herds, or field
agriculture with the use of the plow.

In some favored areas, where the facilities for irrigation were unusual,
a considerable population has been developed upon horticulture;
but no traces of irrigating canals have been found in connection
with the works of the Mound-Builders.

Furthermore, it was unnecessary in their areas. Transplanted from a
comparatively mild to a cold climate, they must have found the
struggle for existence intensified. Like the Cibolans in 1540, it was
doubtless at all times equally true of them, that "they had barely
provisions enough for themselves."

And yet there is no cereal equal to maize in the rich reward it
returns even for poor cultivation.

It grows in the hill, can be eaten green as well as ripe, and is hardy
and prolific. At the same time, while it can be made the basis of human
subsistence, it is not sufficient of itself for the maintenance of
vigorous, healthful life.

Vegetables and game were requisite to complete the supply of food. The
difficulties in the way of production set a limit to their numbers. These
also explain the small number of their settlements in the large areas
over which they spread. Although they found native copper on the south
shore of Lake Superior, and beat it into chisels and a species of
pointed spade, the number of copper tools found is small, much too
small to lead to the supposition that it sensibly influenced their
cultivation.

A pick pointed with a stone chisel, a spade of wood, and a triangular
piece of flint set in a wooden handle and used as a knife, were as perfect
implements as they were able to command.

Horticulture practiced thus rudely was necessarily of limited
productiveness.

The idea has been advanced that "the condition of society among the
Mound-Builders was not that of freemen, or, in other words, that
the state possessed absolute power over the lives and fortunes of
its subjects."

[Footnote: Foster's Pre-historic Races, etc., p. 386.]

It is a sufficient answer to this remarkable passage that a people
unable to dig a well or build a dry stone wall must have been unable
to establish political society, which was necessary to the existence of
a state.

From the absence of all traditionary knowledge of the Mound-Builders
among the tribes found east of the Mississippi, an inference arises that
the period of their occupation was ancient. Their withdrawal was probably
gradual, and completed before the advent of the ancestors of the present
tribes, or simultaneous with their arrival.
It seems more likely that their retirement from the country was voluntary
than that they were expelled by an influx of wild tribes.
If their expulsion had been the result of a protracted warfare, all
remembrance of so remarkable an event would scarcely have been
lost among the tribes by whom they were displaced.

A warm climate was necessary for the successful maintenance of the
highest form of Village Indian life.

In the struggle for existence in this cold climate Indian arts and ingenuity
must have been taxed quite as heavily to provide clothing as food. It
is therefore not improbable that the attempt to transplant the
New Mexican type of village life into the valley of the Ohio proved
a failure, and that after great efforts, continued through centuries
of time, it was finally abandoned by their withdrawal, first into
the gulf region through which they entered, and, lastly, from the
country altogether.

The Tlascalans practiced cremation, but it was generally limited to
the chiefs. [Footnote: Herrera's Hist. America, ii, 302.] It was the
same among the Aztecs.

"Others were burnt and the ashes buried in the temples, but they
were all interred with whatever things of value they possessed."

[Footnote: ib., iii, 220.] The Mayas of Yucatan came nearer the Romans in
the practice, for they preserved the ashes in earthen vessels. "The
dead were much lamented," remarks Herrera, "in silence by day and
with dismal shrieks by night....
filling their mouths with ground wheat [maize] that they might not
want food in the other world....

The bodies of their lords were burnt and their ashes put into large
vessels, over which temples were built. Some made wooden statues
of their parents, and leaving an hollow in the necks of them, put in
their ashes and kept them among their idols with great veneration."
[Footnote: ib., iv, 175.] In New Mexico cremation is occasionally
practiced at the present time.

That the Mound-Builders should have had this custom, in view of its
prevalence among the Village Indians, would afford no cause of
surprise. I think we may, not without reason, recognize in this artificial
basin of clay a cremation bed, upon which the body was placed in
a sitting posture, covered with fuel, and then burned--in some cases
partially, and in others until every vestige of the body had been
burned to ashes--after which, or even before the burning, a mound
was raised over them as a mark of honor and respect.

These mounds have yielded a large number of copper and stone implements,
pipes, fragments of water jars, and other articles usually entombed
with the remains of the dead.

It seems to have been their method of cremation; and it must be
admitted to be quite as respectable as any known form of this strange
practice of a large portion of the human race.

[Relocated Footnote: "The snow and cold are wont to be great,"
Coronado remarks in his relation, "for so say the inhabitants of
the country; and it is very likely so to be, both in respect of the
manner of the country and of the fashion of their houses, and their
furs and other things, which the people have to defend them from
cold....

They have no cotton-wool growing, because the country is cold, yet they
wear mantles thereof, as your honor may see by the show thereof;
and true it is that there was found in their houses certain yarn
made of cotton-wool....

In this country there are certain skins, well dressed, and they dress them
and paint them when they kill their oxen [buffaloes], for so they say
themselves."--Hakluyt's Coll.

of Voyages, Lond. ed., 1600, iii, 377.]

CHAPTER X.

HOUSES OF THE AZTECS OR ANCIENT MEXICANS.

The first accounts of the pueblo of Mexico created a powerful sensation
in Europe. In the West India Islands the Spanish discoverers found
small Indian tribes under the government of chiefs, but on the
continent, in the Valley of Mexico, they found a confederacy of
three Indian tribes under a more advanced but similar government.

In the midst of the valley was a large pueblo, the largest in
America, surrounded with water, approached by causeways; in fine,
a water-girt fortress impregnable to Indian assault.

This pueblo presented to the Spanish adventurers the extraordinary
spectacle of an Indian society lying two ethnical periods back of
European society, but with a government and plan of life at once
intelligent, orderly, and complete.

There was aroused an insatiable curiosity for additional particulars,
which has continued for three centuries, and which has called into existence
a larger number of works than were ever before written upon any
people of the same number and of the same importance.

The Spanish adventurers who captured the pueblo of Mexico saw a king
in Montezuma, lords in Aztec chiefs, and a palace in the large
joint-tenement house occupied, Indian fashion, by Montezuma and his
fellow-householders. It was, perhaps, an unavoidable self-deception at
the time, because they knew nothing of the Aztec social system.

Unfortunately it inaugurated American aboriginal history upon a misconception
of Indian life which has remained substantially unquestioned until
recently. The first eye-witnesses gave the keynote to this history by
introducing Montezuma as a king, occupying a palace of great extent
crowded with retainers, and situated in the midst of a grand and
populous city, over which, and much beside, he was reputed master.

But king and kingdom were in time found too common to express all the
glory and splendor the imagination was beginning to conceive of
Aztec society; and emperor and empire gradually superseded the more
humble conception of the conquerors. [Transcriber's Note: Lengthy
footnote 1 relocated to chapter end.]
A psychological fact, which deserves a moment's notice, is revealed
by these works, written as they were with a desire for the truth
and without intending to deceive.

These writers ought to have known that every Indian tribe in America
was an organized society, with definite institutions, usages, and
customs, which, when ascertained, would have perfectly explained
its government, the social relations of the people, and their plan
of life.

Indian society could be explained as completely and understood as
perfectly as the civilized society of Europe or America by finding its
exact organization. This, strange to say, was never attempted, or at
least never accomplished, by any one of these numerous and voluminous
writers.

To every author, from Cortes and Bernal Diaz to Brasseur de Bourbourg
and Hubert H.
Bancroft, Indian society was an unfathomable mystery, and their works
have left it a mystery still.

Ignorant of its structure and principles, and unable to comprehend
its peculiarities, they invoked the imagination to supply whatever
was necessary to fill out the picture.

When the reason, from want of facts, is unable to understand and
therefore unable to explain the structure of a given society,
imagination walks bravely in and fearlessly rears its glittering
fabric to the skies.

Thus in this case, we have a grand historical romance, strung upon
the conquest of Mexico as upon a thread; the acts of the Spaniards,
the pueblo of Mexico, and its capture, are historical, while the
descriptions of Indian society and government are imaginary and delusive.
These picturesque tales have been read with wonder and admiration,
as they successively appeared, for three hundred and fifty years;
though shown to be romances, they will continue to be read as
Robinson Crusoe is read, not because they are true, but because
they are pleasing.

The psychological revelation is the eager, undefinable interest aroused
by any picture of ancient society. It is felt by every stranger when
he first walks the streets of Pompeii, and, standing within the walls of
its roofless houses, strives to picture to himself the life and
the society which flourished there eighteen hundred years ago.

In Mexico the Spaniards found an organized society several thousand
years further back of their own than Pompeian society, in its arts,
institutions, and state of advancement. It was this revelation of a phase
of the ancient life of mankind which possessed and still possesses such
power to kindle the imagination and inspire enthusiasm.
It caught the imagination and overcame the critical judgment of
Prescott, our most charming writer; it ravaged the sprightly brain
of Brasseur de Bourbourg, and it carried up in a whirlwind our
author at the Golden Gate.

The commendation these works have received from critical journals reveals
with painful distinctness the fact that we have no science of American
ethnology. Such a science, resting as it must upon verified facts, and
dealing with the institutions, arts and inventions, usages and customs,
languages, religious beliefs, and plan of government of the Indian
tribes, would, were it fairly established, command as well as deserve
the respect of the American people.

With the exception of an amateur here and there, American scholars
have not been willing to devote themselves to so vast a work.
It may be truly said at this moment that the structure and principles of
Indian society are but partially known, and that the American Indian
himself is still an enigma among us. The question is still
before us as a nation whether we will undertake the work of
furnishing to the world a scientific exposition of Indian society,
or leave it as it now appears, crude, unmeaning, unintelligible, a
chaos of contradictions and puerile absurdities.

With a field of unequaled richness and of vast extent, with
the same Red Race in all the stages of advancement indicated by
three great ethnical periods, namely the Status of savagery, the
Lower Status of barbarism, and the Middle Status of barbarism,
[Footnote: See ante, page 43, note, for a definition of proposed
ethnical or culture periods, and Ancient Society, chapter 1, "Ethnical
Periods."] more persons ought to be found willing to work upon this
material for the credit of American scholarship.

It will be necessary for them to do as Herodotus did in Asia and
Africa, to visit the native tribes at their villages and encampments,
and study their institutions as living organisms, their condition,
and their plan of life.

When this has been done from the region of the Arctic Sea to Patagonia,
Indian society will become intelligible, because its structure and
principles will be understood.

It exhibits three distinct phases, each with a culture peculiar to
itself, lying back of civilization, and back of the Upper Status of
barbarism, having very little in common with European society of three
hundred years ago, and very little in common with American society of
to-day.

Its institutions, inventions, and customs find no analogues in those
of civilized nations, and cannot be explained in terms adapted to such
a society.
Our later investigators are doing their work more and more on the plan
of direct visitation, and I make no doubt a science of American
ethnology will yet come into existence among us and rise high in
public estimation from the important results it will rapidly achieve.

Precisely what is now needed is the ascertainment and scientific treatment
of this material.

After so general a condemnation of Spanish and American writers,
so far as they represent Aztec society and government, some facts
and some reasons ought to be presented to justify the charge.

Recognizing the obligation, I propose to question the credibility
of so much of the second volume of "The Native Races" and of so
much of other Spanish histories as relate to two subjects--the
character of the house in which Montezuma resided, which is styled
a palace; and the account of the celebrated dinner of Montezuma,
which is represented as the daily banquet of an imperial potentate.

Neither subject, considered in itself, is of much importance;
but if the accounts in these two particulars are found to be
fictitious and delusive, a breach will be made in a vital section
of the fabric of Aztec romance, now the most deadly encumbrance
upon American ethnology.

It may be premised that there is a strong probability, from what is known
of Indian life and society, that the house in which Montezuma lived
was a joint-tenement house of the aboriginal American model, owned
by a large number of related families, and occupied by them in
common as joint proprietors; that the dinner in question was the
usual single daily meal of a communal household, prepared in a
common cook-house from common stores, and divided, Indian fashion,
from the kettle; and that all the Spaniards found in Mexico was a
simple confederacy of three Indian tribes, the counterpart of which
was found in all parts of America.

It may be premised further that the Spanish adventures who thronged to
the New World after its discovery found the same race of Red Indians
in the West India Islands, in Central and South America, in Florida,
and in Mexico.

[Footnote: "But among all the other inhabitants of America there is
such a striking similitude in the form of their bodies, and the
qualities of their minds, that notwithstanding the diversities
occasioned by the influence of climate, or unequal progress in
improvement, we must pronounce them to be descended from one
source."-- Robertson's History of America, Law's ed., p. 69.]

In their mode of life and means of subsistence, in their weapons,
arts, usages, and customs, in their institutions, and in their
mental and physical characteristics, they were the same people in
different stages of advancement.

No distinction of race was observed, and none in fact existed.

They were broken up into numerous independent tribes, each under the
government of a council of chiefs.

Among the more advanced tribes, confederacies existed, which
represented the highest stage their governmental institutions had
attained.

In some of them, as in the Aztec confederacy, they had a principal
war-chief, elected for life or during good behavior, who was the
general commander of the military bands.

His powers were those of a general, and necessarily arbitrary when in the
field.
Behind this war-chief--noticed, it is true, by Spanish writers, but
without explaining or even ascertaining its functions--was the
council of chiefs, "the great council without whose authority,"
Acosta remarks, Montezuma "might not do anything of importance".

[Footnote: The Natural and Moral History of the East and West Indies,
Lond. ed., 1604, Grimstone's Trans., p. 485.]

The civil and military powers of the government were in a certain sense
coordinated between the council of chiefs and the military commander.
The government of the Aztec confederacy was essentially democratic,
because its organization and institutions were so.

If a more special designation is needed, it will be sufficient to
describe it as a military democracy.

The Spaniards who overran Mexico and Peru gave a very different interpretation
of these two organizations. Having found, as they supposed,
two absolute monarchies with feudal characteristics, the history
of American Indian institutions was cast in this mold.

The chief attention of Europeans in the sixteenth century was directed
to these two governments, to which the affairs of the numerous
remaining tribes and confederacies were made subordinate.

Subsequent history has run in the same grooves for more than three
centuries, striving diligently to confirm that of which confirmation
was impossible.

The generalization was perhaps proper enough, that if the institutions
of the Aztecs and Peruvians, such well-advanced Indian tribes, culminated
in monarchy, those of the Indian tribes generally were essentially
monarchical, and therefore those of Mexico and Peru should represent the
institutions of the Red Race.

The eyebrows were drawn higher on her forehead, nearer to the
wave of white hair that showed under her black hat. The nostrils dilated
and contracted with indescribable rapidity. The lips, thickened and
rolling back at intervals from her teeth, revealed more distinctly that
animal, exaggerated wetness which had so repelled him.

"You were out there on that lawn!" she pursued, her glance flashing back
to the judge. "You were out there when she was killed! If you try to
tell me you----"

"Stop it! Stop it!" Wilton commanded, and, as he did so, turned his head
to an angle that put Hastings within his field of vision.

The judge, with one hand on the doorknob, had been pressing with the
other against the woman's shoulders, trying to thrust her out of the
room--a move which she resisted by a hanging-back posture that threw her
weight on his arm. He put more strength now into his effort and
succeeded in forcing her clear of the threshold. His eyes were blazing
under the shadow of his heavy, overhanging brows; but there was about
him no suggestion of a loss of self-control.

"I'm glad to see you!" he told Hastings, speaking over Mrs. Brace's
head, and smiling a deprecatory recognition of the hopelessness of
contending with an infuriated woman.

She addressed them both.

"Smile all you please, now!" she threatened. "But the accounts aren't
balanced yet! Wait for what I choose to tell--what I intend to do!"

Suddenly she got herself in hand. It was as unexpected and thorough a
transformation as the one Hastings had seen twenty-four hours before
during her declaration of Webster's guilt. She had the same appearance
now as then, the same tautness of body, the same flat, constrained tone.

She turned to Wilton:

"I ask you again, will you help me as I asked you? Are you going to deny
me fair play?"

He looked at her in amazement, scowling.

"What fair play?" he exclaimed, and, without waiting for her reply, said
to Hastings: "She insists that I know young Webster killed her daughter,
that I can produce the evidence to prove it. Can you disabuse her mind?"

She surprised them by going, slowly and with apparent composure, toward
the corridor door. There she paused, looking at first one and then the
other with an evil smile so openly contemptuous that it affected them
strongly. There was something in it that made it flagrantly insulting.
Hastings turned away from her. Judge Wilton gave her look for look, but
his already flushed face coloured more darkly.

"Very well, Judge Wilton!" she gave him insolent good-bye, in which
there was also unmistakable threat. "You'll do the right thing sooner or
later--and as I tell you. You're--get this straight--you're not through
with me yet!"

She laughed, one low note, and, impossible as it seemed, proclaimed with
the harsh sound an absolute confidence in what she said.

"Nor you, Mr. Hastings!" she continued, taking her time with her words,
and waiting until the detective faced her again, before she concluded:
"You'll sing a different tune when you find I've got this affair in my
hands--tight!"

Still smiling her contempt, as if she enjoyed a feeling of superiority,
she left the room. When her footsteps died down the corridor, the two
men drew long breaths of relief.

Wilton broke the ensuing silence.

"Is she sane?"

"Yes," Hastings said, "so far as sanity can be said to exist in a mind
consecrated to evil."

The judge was surprised by the solemnity of the other's manner. "Why do
you say that?" he asked. "Do you know that much about her?"

"Who wouldn't?" Hastings retorted. "It's written all over her."

Wilton led the way into his private office and closed the door.

"I'm glad it happened at just this time," he said, "when everybody's
out of the building." He struck the desk with his fist. "By God!" he
ground out through gritted teeth. "How I hate these wild, unbridled
women!"

"Yes," agreed Hastings, taking the chair Wilton rolled forward for him.
"She worries me. Wonder if she's going to Sloanehurst."

"That would be the logical sequel to this visit," Wilton said. "But
pardon my show of temper. You came to see me?"

"Yes; and, like her, for information. But," the detective said, smiling,
"not for rough-house purposes."

The judge had not entirely regained his equanimity; his face still wore
a heightened colour; his whole bearing was that of a man mentally
reviewing the results of an unpleasant incident. Instead of replying
promptly to Hastings, he sat looking out of the window, obviously
troubled.

"Her game is blackmail," he declared at last.

"On whom?" the detective queried.

"Arthur Sloane, of course. She calculates that he'll play to have her
cease annoying his daughter's fiancé. And she'll impress Arthur, if
Jarvis ever lets her get to him. Somehow, she strangely compels
credence."

"Not for me," Hastings objected, and did not point out that Wilton's
words might be taken as an admission of Webster's guilt.

The judge himself might have seen that.

"I mean," he qualified, "she seems too smart a woman to put herself in a
position where ridicule will be sure to overtake her. And yet, that's
what she's doing--isn't she?"

The detective was whittling, dropping the chips into the waste-basket.
He spoke with a deliberateness unusual even in him, framing each
sentence in his mind before giving it utterance.

"I reckon, judge, you and I have had some four or five talks--that is,
not counting Saturday evening and yesterday at Sloanehurst. That's about
the extent of our acquaintance. That right?"

"Why, yes," Wilton said, surprised by the change of topic.

"I mention it," Hastings explained, "to show how I've felt toward
you--you interested me. Excuse me if I speak plainly--you'll see why
later on--but you struck me as worth studying, deep. And I thought you
must have sized me up, catalogued me one way or the other. You're like
me: waste no time with men who bore you. I felt certain, if you'd been
asked, you'd have checked me off as reliable. Would you?"

"Unquestionably."

"And, if I was reliable then, I'm reliable now. That's a fair
assumption, ain't it?"

"Certainly." The judge laughed shortly, a little embarrassed.

"That brings me to my point. You'll believe me when I tell you my only
interest in this murder is to find the murderer, and, while I'm doing
it, to save the Sloanes as much as possible from annoyance. You'll
believe me, also, when I say I've got to have all the facts if I'm to
work surely and fast. You recognize the force of that, don't you?"

"Why, yes, Hastings." Wilton spoke impatiently this time.

"Fine!" The old man shot him a genial glance over the steel-rimmed
spectacles. "That's the introduction. Here's the real thing: I've an
idea you could tell me more about what happened on the lawn Saturday
night."

After his involuntary, immediate start of surprise, Wilton tilted his
head, slowly blowing the cigar smoke from his pursed lips. He had a fine
air of reflection, careful thought.

"I can elaborate what I've already told you," he said, finally, "if
that's what you mean--go into greater detail."

He watched closely the edge of the detective's face unhidden by his
bending over the wood he was cutting.

"I don't think elaboration could do much good," Hastings objected. "I
referred to new stuff--some fact or facts you might have omitted,
unconsciously."

"Unconsciously?" Wilton echoed the word, as a man does when his mind is
overtaxed.

Hastings took it up.

"Or consciously, even," he said quickly, meeting the other's eyes.

The judge moved sharply, bracing himself against the back of the chair.

"What do you mean by that?"

"Skilled in the law yourself, thoroughly familiar, with the rules of
evidence, it's more than possible that you might have reviewed matters
and decided that there were things which, if they were known, would do
harm instead of good--obscure the truth, perhaps; or hinder the hunt for
the guilty man instead of helping it on. That's clear enough, isn't it?
You might have thought that?"

The look of sullen resentment in the judge's face was unmistakable.

"Oh, say what you mean!" he retorted warmly. "What you're insinuating is
that I've lied!"

"It don't have to be called that."

"Well, then, that I, a judge, sworn to uphold the law and punish crime,
have elected to thwart the law and to cheat its officials of the facts
they should have. Is that what you mean?"

"I'll be honest with you," Hastings admitted, unmoved by the other's
grand manner. "I've wondered about that--whether you thought a judge had
a right to do a thing of that sort."

Wilton's hand, clenched on the edge of the desk, shook perceptibly.

"Did you think that, judge?" the detective persisted.

The judge hesitated.

"It's a point I've never gone into," he said finally, with intentional
sarcasm.

Hastings snapped his knife-blade shut and thrust the piece of wood into
his pocket.

"Let's get away from this beating about the bush," he suggested, voice
on a sterner note. "I don't want to irritate you unnecessarily, judge. I
came here for information--stuff I'm more than anxious to get. And I go
back to that now: won't you tell me anything more about the discovery of
the woman's body by the two of you--you and Webster?"

"No; I won't! I've covered the whole thing--several times."

"Is there anything that you haven't told--anything you've decided to
suppress?"

Wilton got up from his chair and struck the desk with his fist.

"See here, Hastings! You're getting beside yourself. Representing Miss
Sloane doesn't warrant your insulting her friends. Suppose we consider
this interview at an end. Some other time, perhaps----"

Hastings also had risen.

"Just a minute, judge!" he interrupted, all at once assuming the
authoritative air that had so amazed Wilton the night of the murder.
"You're suppressing something--and I know it!"

"That's a lie!" Wilton retorted, the flush deepening to crimson on his
face.

"It ain't a lie," Hastings contradicted, holding his self-control. "And
you watch yourself! Don't you call me a liar again--not as long as you
live! You can't afford the insult."

"Then, don't provoke it. Don't----"

"What did Webster whisper to you, across that corpse?" Hastings
demanded, going nearer to Wilton.

"What's this?" Wilton's tone was one of consternation; the words might
have been spoken by a man stumbling on an unsuspected horror in a dark
room.

They stared at each other for several dragging seconds. The detective
waved a hand toward the judge's chair.

"Sit down," he said, resuming his own seat.

There followed another pause, longer than the first. The judge's
breathing was laboured, audible. He lowered his eyes and passed his hand
across their thick lids. When he looked up again, Hastings commanded him
with unwavering, expectant gaze.

"I've made a mistake," Wilton began huskily, and stopped.

"Yes?" Hastings said, unbending. "How?"

"I see it now. It was a matter of no importance, in itself. I've
exaggerated it, by my silence, into disproportionate significance." His
tone changed to curiosity. "Who told you about--the whispering?"

The detective was implacable, emphasizing his dominance.

"First, what was it?" When Wilton still hesitated, he repeated: "What
did Webster say when he put his hand over your mouth--to prevent your
outcry?"

The judge threw up his head, as if in sudden resolve to be frank. He
spoke more readily, with a clumsy semblance of amiability.

"He said, 'Don't do that! You'll frighten Lucille!' I tried to nod my
head, agreeing. But he misunderstood the movement, I think. He thought
I meant to shout anyway; he tightened his grip. 'Keep quiet! Will you
keep quiet?' he repeated two or three times. When I made my meaning
clear, he took his hand away. He explained later what had occurred to
him the moment Arthur's light flashed on. He said it came to him before
he clearly realized who I was. It----

"I swear, Hastings, I hate to tell you this. It suggests unjust
suspicions. Of what value are the wild ideas of a nervous man, all to
pieces anyway, when he stumbles on a dead woman in the middle of the
night?"

"They were valuable enough," Hastings flicked him, "for you to cover
them up--for some reason. What were they?"

Wilton was puzzled by the detective's tone, its abstruse insinuation.
But he answered the question.

"He said his first idea, the one that made him think of Lucille, was
that Arthur might have had something to do with the murder."

"Why? Why did he think Sloane had killed Mildred Brace?"

"Because she had been the cause of Lucille's breaking her engagement
with Berne--and Arthur knew that. Arthur had been in a rage----"

"All right!" Hastings checked him suddenly, and, getting to his feet,
fell to pacing the room, his eyes, always on Wilton. "I'm acquainted
with that part of it."

He paid no attention to Wilton's evident surprise at that statement. He
had a surprise of his own to deal with: the unexpected similarity of the
judge's story with Lucille Sloane's theorizing as to what Webster had
whispered across the body in the moment of its discovery. The two
statements were identical--a coincidence that defied credulity.

He caught himself doubting Lucille. Had she been theorizing, after all?
Or had she relayed to him words that Wilton had put into her mouth?
Then, remembering her grief, her desperate appeals to him for aid, he
dismissed the suspicion.

"I'd stake my life on her honesty," he decided. "Her intuition gave her
the correct solution--if Wilton's not lying now!"

He put the obvious question: "Judge, am I the first one to hear
this--from you?" and received the obvious answer: "You are. I didn't
volunteer it to you, did I?"

"All right. Now, did you believe Webster? Wait a minute! Did you believe
his fear wasn't for himself when he gagged you that way?"

"Yes; I did," replied Wilton, in a tone that lacked sincerity.

"Do you believe it now?"

"If I didn't, do you think I'd have tried for a moment to conceal what
he said to me?"

"Why did you conceal it?"

"Because Arthur Sloane was my friend, and his daughter's happiness would
have been ruined if I'd thrown further suspicion on him. Besides, what I
did conceal could have been of no value to any detective or sheriff on
earth. It meant nothing, so long as I knew the boy's sincerity--and his
innocence as well as Arthur's."

"But," Hastings persisted, "why all this concern for Webster, after his
engagement had been broken?"

"How's that?" Wilton countered. "Oh, I see! The break wasn't permanent.
Arthur and I had decided on that. We knew they'd get together again."

Hastings halted in front of the judge's chair.

"Have you kept back anything else?" he demanded.

"Nothing," Wilton said, with a return of his former sullenness. "And,"
he forced himself to the avowal, "I'm sorry I kept that back. It's
nothing."

Hastings' manner changed on the instant. He was once more cordial.

"All right, judge!" he said heartily, consulting his ponderous watch.
"This is all between us. I take it, you wouldn't want it known by the
sheriff, even now?" Wilton shook his head in quick negation. "All right!
He needn't--if things go well. And the person I got it from won't spread
it around.--That satisfactory?"

The judge's smile, in spite of his best effort, was devoid of
friendliness. The dark flush that persisted in his countenance told how
hardly he kept down his anger.

Hastings put on his hat and ambled toward the door.

"By the way," he proclaimed an afterthought, "I've got to ask one more
favour, judge. If Mrs. Brace troubles you again, will you let me know
about it, at the earliest possible moment?"

He went out, chuckling.

But the judge was as mystified as he was resentful. He had detected in
Hastings' manner, he thought, the same self-satisfaction, the same quiet
elation, which he and Berne had observed at the close of the music-room
interview. Going to the window, he addressed the summer sky:

"Who the devil does the old fool suspect--Arthur or Berne?"


XIV

MR. CROWN FORMS AN ALLIANCE


"If you've as much as five hundred dollars at your disposal--pin-money
savings, perhaps--anything you can check on without the knowledge of
others, you can do it," Hastings urged, ending a long argument.

"I! Take it to her myself?" Lucille still protested, although she could
not refute his reasonings.

"It's the only way that would be effective--and it wouldn't be so
difficult. I had counted on your courage--your unusual courage."

"But what will it accomplish? If I could only see that, clearly!"

She was beginning to yield to his insistence.

They were in the rose garden, in the shade of a little arbor from whose
roof the great red flowers drooped almost to the girl's hair. He was
acutely aware of the pathetic contrast between her white, ravaged face
and the surrounding scene, the fragrance, the roses of every colour
swaying to the slow breeze of late afternoon, the long, cool shadows. He
found it hard to force her to the plan, and would have abandoned it but
for the possibilities it presented to his mind.

"I've already touched on that," he applied himself to her doubts. "I
want you to trust me there, to accept my solemn assurance that, if Mrs.
Brace accepts this money from you on our terms, it will hasten my
capture of the murderer. I'll say more than that: you are my only
possible help in the matter. Won't you believe me?"

She sat quite still, a long time, looking steadily at him with unseeing
eyes.

"I shall have to go to that dreadful woman's apartment, be alone with
her, make a secret bargain," she enumerated the various parts of her
task, wonder and repugnance mingling in her voice. "That horrible woman!
You say, yourself, Mr. Hastings, she's horrible."

"Still," he repeated, "you can do it."

A little while ago she had cried out, both hands clenched on the arm of
the rustic bench, her eyes opening wide in the startled look he had come
to know: "If I could do something, _anything_, for Berne! Dr. Welles
said only an hour ago he had no more than an even chance for his life.
Half the time he can't speak! And I'm responsible. I am! I know it. I
try to think I'm not. But I am!"

He recurred to that.

"Dr. Welles said the ending of Mr. Webster's suspense would be the best
medicine for him. And I think Webster would see that nobody but you
could do this--in the very nature of things. The absolute secrecy
required, the fact that you buy her silence, pay her to cease her
accusations against Berne--don't you see? He'd want you to do it."

That finished her resistance. She made him repeat all his directions,
precautions for secrecy.

"I wish I could tell you how important it is," he said. "And keep this
in mind always: I rely on your paying her the money without even a
suspicion of it getting abroad. If accidents happen and you're seen
entering the Walman, what more natural than that you want to ask this
woman the meaning of her vague threats against--against
Sloanehurst?--But of money, your real object, not a word! Nobody's to
have a hint of it."

"Oh, yes; I see the necessity of that." But she was distressed. "Suppose
she refuses?"

Her altered frame of mind, an eagerness now to succeed with the plan she
had at first refused, brought him again his thought of yesterday: "If
she were put to it--if she could save only one and had to choose between
father and fiancé, her choice would be for the fiancé."

He answered her question. "She won't refuse," he declared, with a
confidence she could not doubt. "If I thought she would, I'd almost be
willing to say we'd never find the man who killed her daughter."

"When I think of Russell's alibi----"

"Have we mentioned Russell?" he protested, laughing away her fears.
"Anyway, his old alibi's no good--if that's what's troubling you. Wait
and see!"

He was in high good humour.


In that same hour the woman for whom he had planned this trap was busy
with a scheme of her own. Her object was to form an alliance with
Sheriff Crown. That gentleman, to use his expressive phrase, had been
"putting her over the jumps" for the past forty minutes, bringing to the
work of cross-questioning her all the intelligence, craftiness and logic
at his command. The net result of his fusillade of interrogatories,
however, was exceedingly meagre.

As he sat, caressing his chin and thrusting forward his bristly
moustache, Mrs. Brace perceived in his eyes a confession of failure.
Although he was far from suspecting it, he presented to her keen
scrutiny an amusing figure. She observed that his shoulders drooped, and
that, as he slowly produced a handkerchief and mopped his forehead, his
movements were eloquent of gloom.

In fact, Mr. Crown felt himself at a loss. He had come to the end of his
resourcefulness in the art of probing for facts. He was about to take
his departure, with the secret realization that he had learned nothing
new--unless an increased admiration of Mrs. Brace's sharpness of wit
might be catalogued as knowledge.

She put his thought into language.

"You see, Mr. Crown, you're wasting your time shouting at me, bullying
me, accusing me of protecting the murderer of my own daughter."

There was a new note in her voice, a hint, ever so slight, of a
willingness to be friendly. He was not insensible to it. Hearing it, he
put himself on guard, wondering what it portended.

"I didn't say that," he contradicted, far from graciousness. "I said you
knew a whole lot more about the murder than you'd tell--tell me anyway."

"But why should I want to conceal anything that might bring the man to
justice?"

"Blessed if I know!" he conceded, not without signs of irritation.

So far as he could see, not a feature of her face changed. The lifted
eyebrows were still high upon her forehead, interrogative and mocking;
the restless, gleaming eyes still drilled into various parts of his
person and attire; the thin lips continued their moving pictures of
contempt. And yet, he saw, too, that she presented to him now another
countenance.

The change was no more than a shadow; and the shadow was so light that
he could not be sure of its meaning. He thought it was friendliness, but
that opinion was dulled by recurrence of his admiration of her
"smartness." He feared some imposition.

"You've adopted Mr. Hastings' absurd theory," she said, as if she
wondered. "You've subscribed to it without question."

"What theory?"

"That I know who the guilty man is."

"Well?" He was still on guard.

"It surprises me--that's all--a man of your intellect, your
originality."

She sighed, marvelling at this addition to life's conundrums.

"Why?" he asked, bluntly.

"I should never have thought you'd put yourself in that position before
the public. I mean, letting him lead you around by the
nose--figuratively."

Mr. Crown started forward in his chair, eyes popped. He was indignant
and surprised.

"Is that what they're saying?" he demanded.

"Naturally," she said, and with the one word laid it down as an
impossibility that "they" could have said anything else. "That's what
the reporters tell me."

"Well, I'll be--dog-goned!" The knuckle-like chin dropped. "They're
saying that, are they?"

Disturbed as he was, he noticed that she regarded him with apparently
genuine interest--that, perhaps, she added to her interest a regret that
he had displayed no originality in the investigation, a man of his
intellect!

"They couldn't understand why you were playing Hastings' game," she
proceeded, "playing it to his smallest instructions."

"Hastings' game! What the thunder are they talking about? What do they
mean, his game?"

"His desire to keep suspicion away from the Sloanes and Mr. Webster.
That's what they hired him for--isn't it?"

"I guess it is--by gravy!" Mr. Crown's long-drawn sigh was distinctly
tremulous.

"That old man pockets his fee when he throws Gene Russell into jail.
Why, then, isn't it his game to convince you of Gene's guilt? Why isn't
it his game to persuade you of my secret knowledge of Gene's guilt?
Why----"

"So, that's----"

"Let me say what I started," she in turn interrupted him. "As one of
the reporters pointed out, why isn't it his game to try to make a fool
of you?"

They travel eight days' journey unto certain plains lying towards
the North Sea. In this country there are certain skins, well dressed;
and they dress them and paint them where they kill their oxen
[buffalo]; for so they say themselves."

[Footnote: Hakluyt, vol iii, p. 377.]
On the fourth day after the capture of Cibola, Coronado further says:
"They set in order all their goods and substance, their women and
children, and fled to the hills, leaving their towns as it were
abandoned, wherein remained very few of them."

[Footnote: ib., vol.
iii, p. 379.]

It will be observed that the phrases "great houses of
stone," and "good houses of three, or four, or five lofts high,"
not only describe the pueblo on the Chaco in apt language, but
there are no other pueblos in New Mexico, exclusively of stone, of
which we have knowledge, except those of the Mokis, in the Canyon
de Chelly, on the Animas River, and elsewhere in Southwestern
Colorado.

There is an apparent difficulty in the narrative, in the reference made
to the number of houses; but it is evident, I think, that Coronado meant
apartments or sections, treating each great house as a block of
houses, and expressing a doubt of their "judgment and wit to build
these houses in such sort as they are."

If any doubt remained, it is entirely removed by the fact that all the
pueblo houses in New Mexico, whether occupied or in ruins, are
great edifices constructed like these on the communal principle,
and that two hundred such houses grouped in one town were an utter
impossibility.

Jaramillo, who wrote his Relation some time after the return
of the expedition, remarks, "that all the water-courses that we fell in
with, whether brook or river, as far as that of Cibola, and I believe
for one or two days' journey beyond, flow in the direction of the South
Sea [the Pacific]; farther on they take the direction of the North Sea
[the Atlantic]". [Footnote: Col. H. Ternaux-Compans, vol. ix, p.
370.]

This tends to show that Cibola was situated on a tributary of the Colorado,
which gathers all the waters of New Mexico west of the Rio Grande and
north of the Gila, and also that it was situated quite near the
dividing ridge.

It is but ten miles from the Canyon de Torrejon, on the Puerco, a
tributary of the Rio Grande, to the commencement of the Rio de
Chaco, an affluent of the San Juan, and but twenty-three miles to
the Pueblo Pintado.

In this respect the sites of the ruins on the Chaco are in close
agreement with the description of the situations of the towns of
Cibola.

Castanyada, after speaking of the seven villages, and the character
of the houses, remarks that "the valley is very narrow, between
precipitous mountains" ["C'est une vallee tres-etroite entre des
montagues escarpees"], [Footnote: Castenyada Relation, Ternaux-Compans,
ix, p.
164.] which, in the light of Coronado's declaration, that "the
country is all plain, and on no side mountains," may perhaps have
reference to the encompassing walls of the canyon.

This language, literally interpreted, does not describe this canyon,
neither is there any valley in New Mexico, occupied by pueblos, which
answers this description.

Upon the evidence contained in these several narratives, and with our
present knowledge of New Mexico, the sites of the seven towns of Cibola
cannot be determined with certainty.

It is a question of probabilities; and those which seem the strongest
in favor of the ruins on the Chaco are the following: Firstly,
they are superior, architecturally, to any pueblos in New Mexico,
now existing or in ruins, and agree in number and in proximity to
each other, with the towns of Cibola as described.

Secondly, they are upon an affluent of the San Juan, and within "one or
two days' journey" of the waters which flow into the Gulf of Mexico;
in other words, they are near the summit of the watershed of the
two oceans, where Jaramillo distinctly states Cibola was situated.

Thirdly, they are within eight days of the buffalo ranges, the
nearest of which are upon the northeastern confines of New Mexico.

Cibola was said to be thus situated.

Moreover, the name Cibola implies the buffalo country.

We are also told by Friar Marcos that the Indians south of the Gila
trafficked with the Cibolans for ox-hides, which he found them wearing.
Zunyi, the only known place, showing a probability that it was one
of the seven towns, is too far distant from the buffalo ranges to
answer to this portion of the narrative.

Lastly, the evidence, collectively, favors a far northern as well
as far eastern position for Cibola.

The people of Cibola knew nothing of either ocean. This could hardly
have been true of the people of Zunyi with respect to the Pacific, or
at least the Gulf of California.

Coronado himself was in doubt as to which sea was nearest, and seems
to have been conscious of the widening of the continent upon both sides
of him.

Assuming that the pueblos on the Chaco were inhabited in 1540, they
were the finest structures then in New Mexico.

Coronado captured all the villages on the Rio Grande, and probably sent a
detachment to the Moki Pueblos, and remained two years in the country.

It seems impossible, therefore, that he should have failed to find the
pueblos on the Chaco; and they answer his description better than
any other pueblos in New Mexico.

With respect to the manner of constructing these houses, it was probably
done, as elsewhere remarked, from time to time, and from generation
to generation.

Like a feudal castle, each house was a growth by additions from small
beginnings, made as exigencies required. When one of these houses,
after attaining a sufficient size, became overcrowded with inhabitants,
it is probable that a strong colony, "like the swarm from the parent
hive, moved out, and commenced a new house, above or below, in the
same valley."

This would be repeated, as the people prospered, until several
pueblos grew up within an extent of twelve or fifteen miles, as in
the valley of the Chaco.

When the capabilities of the valley were becoming overtaxed for their
joint subsistence, the colonists would seek more distant homes.

At the period of the highest prosperity of these pueblos, the valley of
the Chaco must have possessed remarkable advantages for subsistence.
The plain between the walls of the canyon was between half a mile
and a mile in width near the several pueblos, but the amount of
water now passing through it is small.

In July, according to Lieutenant Simpson, the running stream was eight
feet wide and a foot and a half deep at one of the pueblos; while Mr.
Jackson found no running water and the valley entirely dry in the
month of May, with the exception of pools of water in places and a
reservoir of pure water in the rocks at the top of the bluff.

The condition of the region is shown by these two statements. During
the rainy season in the summer, which is also the season of the
growing crops, there is an abundance of water; while in the dry
season it is confined to springs, pools and reservoirs.

From the number of pueblos in the valley, indicating a population
of several thousand, the gardens within it must have yielded a large
amount of subsistence; the climate being favorable to its growth
and ripening.

CHAPTER VIII.

RUINS OF HOUSES OF THE SEDENTARY INDIANS OF THE SAN JUAN RIVER AND ITS
TRIBUTARIES--CONTINUED.

About sixty miles north of the pueblos on the Chaco, and in the
valley of the Animas River, is a cluster of stone pueblos, very
similar to the former.

These I visited in 1878. The valley is broad at this point, and for
some miles above and below to its mouth. At the time of our visit (July
22) the river was a broad stream, carrying a large volume of water.
We followed down the river from the point of its rise in the dividing
range, where it was a mere brook, nearly the whole distance through
Silverton to Animas City.

The constant accession of mountain streams, and the rapid descent
of its bed, soon changed it into a noisy and dashing stream.

About twenty miles above Animas City we were compelled to ascend to
the top of the bordering mountains to avoid the narrow canyon below,
which was impassable; and in descending from Animas City to visit
these pueblos we crossed over to the La Plata Valley, and after passing
through this valley we recrossed to the Animas Valley to avoid
similar canyons also impassable. The supply of water for irrigation at
the pueblo was abundant. [Footnote: The engravings of Figs. 40, 41
and 41a were kindly loaned by Mr. F. W. Putnam of the Peabody Museum,
Cambridge, Mass.]

The pueblo of which the ground plan is shown, Fig. 40, is one of
four situated within the extent of one mile on the west side of the
Animas River in New Mexico, about twelve miles above its mouth.

Besides these four, there are five other smaller ruins of inferior
structures within the same area.

This pueblo was five or perhaps six stories high, consisting of a
main building three hundred and sixty-eight feet long, and two wings
two hundred and seventy feet long, measured along the external wall
on the right and left sides, and one hundred and ninety-nine feet
measured along the inside from the end back to the main building.

[Illustration: Fig. 40--Ground plan of Pueblo on Animas River, N.

M.]
A fourth structure crosses from the end of one wing to the end of the
other, thus inclosing an open court. It was of the width of one and
perhaps two rows of apartments, and slightly convex outward, which
enlarged somewhat the size of the court.

The main building and the wings were built in the so-called terraced form;
that is to say, the first row of apartments in the main building
and in each wing on the court side were but one story high.

The second row back of these were carried up two stories high, the third
row three stories, and so on to the number of five stories for the
main building and four for each wing. The external wall rose forty
or fifty feet where the structure was five stories high and but
ten feet on the court side, including a low parapet wall, where the
structure was but one story high.

There was no entrance to these great structures in the ground story. After
getting admission within the court, they ascended to the roof of
the first row of apartments by means of ladders, and in the same
way, by ladders, to each successive story.

As the second story receded from the first, the third from the second,
and so on, each successive story made a great step ten feet high. The
apartments were entered through trap-doors in the roof of each story, the
descent being by ladders inside. In some places, without doubt, the upper
stories were entered by doorways from the roof of the story in
front.

The two wings are a mass of ruins. Pit-holes along the summit show the
forms of the rooms, with plain traces of the original walls here
and there, and excavations, made by curious settlers, have opened
a number of rooms in the ground story of one of the wings.

These we entered and measured. Some of the rooms were faced with stone,
i.e., we found a stone wall regularly laid up, like the one in the
main building, as will elsewhere be shown.

Some of the walls in these rooms were of cobblestone and adobe;
others were of stone with natural faces and cobblestone intermixed.
We saw no wall of adobe brick alone. The fallen walls formed a mass
about twelve feet deep over the site of the wings, being the deepest
on the outside and thinning out on the court side.

The mass of material used in the construction of these edifices was very
great and surprises the beholder.

It is explained in part by the thickness of the walls. We measured
a number of them. They were two feet four inches, two feet six inches,
two feet nine inches, three feet, and in rare cases three feet six
inches thick. None measured less than two feet.

The main building was originally the best constructed part of the edifice,
it may be supposed, because a part of it now remains standing.

The walls of the first story, of some part of the second, and, in some
places, of a part of the third story, forming the second row of apartments
from the outside, are still standing, and rise about twenty five feet
from the ground.

The measurements of the second row of apartments, as shown in the diagram
were from the standing walls, and were made in the second story.

The first or basement story is filled up with the rubbish of the fallen
walls, ceilings, and floors, in the second row of apartments
named. In some cases they are full above the line of the original
ceilings; in others nearly up to them.

The main ceiling beams were of yellow cedar from eight to twelve
inches in diameter, usually three and four in number, and were
placed across the narrow way of the room.

Stubs of these beams still remain in the walls parallel with the
court.

Just above the line of these beams in the other two walls were the ends
of a row of poles about four inches in diameter, which passed
transversely across the cedar beams Stubs of these poles, broken
off short at the line of the walls, still remain in place.

Upon these poles were originally thin pieces of split cedar limbs, and
then the floor of adobe mortar, four or five inches thick. We thus get
the position and height of the floor of the first and second
stories, which were about nine feet six inches for the ground story,
and nine feet for the second story.

The external wall of the main building has fallen the entire length of the
structure. As these ruins are resorted to by the few settlers in the
valley as a stone quarry to obtain stone for foundations to their
houses and barns, and for stoning up their wells, the loose material
is being gradually removed, and when the standing walls are more
convenient to take they will be removed also.

One farmer told me he thought that one quarter of the accessible
material of this and the adjacent stone pueblo had already been
removed.

It is to be hoped that the number of these settlers inclined to Vandalism
will not increase.

A part of the partition walls which connected the outside wall with
the next parallel wall is still standing where the wall last named
rises above the second story.

They stand out for three or four feet like buttresses against the wall,
and show that the masonry of the parallel and transverse walls was
articulated, that the partition walls were continuous from front to
rear, and that the walls of the several stories rested upon each
other.

All this is seen by a bare inspection of the walls as they now stand.

The masonry itself is the chief matter of interest in these structures.

Every room in the main building was faced with stone on the four
sides, having an adobe floor and a wooden ceiling. Each room had, as
far as walls now remain to show, two doorways through the walls
parallel with the court, and four openings about twelve inches
square, two on the side of each doorway, near the ceiling.

These openings were for light and ventilation. In a limited sense
it may be said that the stones were dressed, and also that they
were laid in courses, but, in the high and strict meaning of these
terms, neither is true.

The stones used were small and of different sizes.
Sometimes they were nearly square, from six to eight inches on a side;
sometimes a foot long by six inches wide. The latter is the size of the
stones used at Uxmal and Chichen Itza, according to Norman.

In some cases longer and thicker stones were used without any attempt
to square the ends.

In some instances thin pieces of stone were employed with parallel faces.
In all cases the stone was a sandstone, now of a reddish brown color.
It is the prevailing stone in the bluffs of the Animas River, and of all
the rivers parallel with it running into the San Juan, as far as
personal observation enabled me to judge.

It is a soft rather than a hard stone, usually of a buff color when first
quarried, and some of it has decayed in the using.
The wasted and weatherworn appearance of some of these stones would
otherwise indicate a very great age for the structure.

With stone of the size used a good face can be formed by simple
fracture, and a joint sufficiently close may be made by a few strokes
with a stone maul.

If finer work was aimed at, it must have been accomplished by
rubbing the stones to a face. But this work is sufficiently explained by
the former processes. In the row of apartments and stories named, both
faces of each wall were of stone, so that all of the apartments
were of stone on the inside.

They were fair walls, both in masonry and workmanship, and creditable to
the builders.

There was an attempt to lay up these walls in courses of uniform thickness,
but each course differing from the one above and below it.

The attempt was only partially successful. They did not hesitate to
break in upon the regularity of the courses. Some of the standing walls
are now sprung; but most of them are straight, and fairly vertical, the
adobe mortar being sound and the bond unbroken.

The Indian had a string from time immemorial. With it he could strike
a circle, and lay out the four sides of a quadrangular structure
with tolerable correctness.

It is not too much to assume that with a string and sinker attached
the Village Indian had the plumb-line, and could prove his wall as
well as we can.

At all events, the eye still proves the general correctness of their
work.

The adobe mortar of the Pueblo Indians is something more than mud
mortar, although far below a mortar of lime and sand.

Adobe is a kind of finely pulverized clay with a bond of considerable
strength by mechanical cohesion.

In Southern Colorado, in Arizona, and New Mexico, there are immense
tracts covered with what is called adobe soil. It varies somewhat in the
degree of its excellence. The kind of which they make their pottery has
the largest per cent of alumina, and its presence is indicated by
the salt weed which grows in this particular soil. This kind also makes
the best adobe mortar.

The Indians use it freely in laying their walls, as freely as our masons
use lime mortar; and although it never acquires the hardness of cement,
it disintegrates slowly. The mortar in these walls is still sound, so
that it requires some effort of strength to loosen a stone from
the wall and remove it.

But this adobe mortar is adapted only to the dry climate of Southern
Colorado, Arizona, and New Mexico, where the precipitation is less
than five inches per annum.

The rains and frosts of a northern climate would speedily destroy it. To
the presence of this adobe soil, found in such abundance in the regions
named, and to the sandstone of the bluffs, where masses are often
found in fragments, we must attribute the great progress made by
these Indians in house-building.

The exclusive presence of this adobe mortar in all New Mexican
structures of the aboriginal period shows that the tribes of New
Mexico were then ignorant of a mortar of lime and sand.

And here a digression may be allowed to consider whether a cement of
this grade was known to the aborigines. Theoretically, the use of a
mortar composed of quick-lime and sand, which gives a cement
chemically united, would not be expected of the Indian tribes either
in North or South America.

There is no sufficient proof that they ever produced a cement of
this high grade.

It requires a kiln, artificially constructed, and a concentrated heat
to burn limestone into lime, supposing they had learned that lime
could be thus obtained, and some knowledge of the properties of
quick-lime before they reached the idea of a true cement.

The Spanish writers generally speak of walls of lime and stone, thus
implying a mortar of lime and sand. Thus, Bernal Diaz speaks of the
great temple in the Pueblo of Mexico as surrounded "with double
enclosures built of stone and lime."

[Footnote: The True History of the Conquest of Mexico, Keatinge's Translation,
Salem ed., 1803, vol. i, p. 208.]

Clavigero remarks that "the houses of lords and people of circumstances
were built of stone and lime." [Footnote: History of Mexico, Cullen's
Trans., Phila.
ed., 1817, vol. ii, p. 232.]

Again, "the ignorant Mr. De Pauw denies that the Mexicans had either
the knowledge or made use of lime; but it is evident from the testimony
of all the historians of Mexico, by tribute rolls, and above all from
the ancient buildings still remaining, that all these nations made the
same use of lime as all the Europeans do." [Footnote:
ib., vol. ii, p. 237.]

In like manner, Herrera, speaking of Zempoala, near Vera Cruz, remarks
that the Spaniards, entering the town, found "the houses [were]
built of lime and stone;" [Footnote: History of America, Stevens'
Trans., London ed., 1725, vol ii, p. 266.] and again, speaking of
the houses in Yucatan, he remarks that "at the place where the
encounter happened, there were three houses built of lime and stone."

[Footnote: ib., p. 112.]
These several statements can hardly be said to prove the fact of the use
of a mortar of lime and sand. Mr. John L. Stephens, in speaking of
the ruins at Palenque, is more explicit: "The building was constructed
of stone, with a mortar of lime and sand, and the whole front was covered
with stucco, and painted." [Footnote: Central America, Chiapas and
Yucatan, vol. ii, p. 310.]
The back wall of the governor's house at Uxmal is nine feet thick
through its length of two hundred and seventy feet.

In this wall, by means of crowbars, "the Indians made a hole six and
seven feet deep, but throughout the wall was solid and consisted
of large stones imbedded in mortar, almost as hard as rock."

[Footnote: ib., vol. i, p. 178.]

At the ruins of Zayi, there was one row of ten apartments, two
hundred and twenty feet long, called the Casas Cerrada, or closed
house, because the core over which the triangular ceiling was
constructed had not been removed when the house was abandoned, of
which Stephens says, "We found ourselves in apartments finished
with the walls and ceilings like the others, but filled up (except
so far as they had been emptied by the Indians) with solid masses
of mortar and stones."

[Footnote: Central American, Chiapas and Yucatan, vol.
ii, p. 23.]

Norman, speaking of the ruins of the House of the Cacique at Chichen,
remarks, "that the wall is made of large and uniformly square
blocks of limestone set in mortar, which appears to be as durable
as the stone itself."

[Footnote: Rambles in Yucatan, p. 120.]

Elsewhere, speaking of the ruins of Yucatan generally, he observes,
"the stones are cut in parallelopipeds of about twelve inches in
length and six in breadth, the interstices filled up of the same
materials of which the terraces are composed."

His ally! And he won't act until he's had another session with
her.--And she won't advise an arrest for a day or two anyway. Her game
is to make him play on Sloane's nerves for a while. She advises threats,
not arrests--which suits me, to a T!"

He fought down a chuckle, thinking of that alliance.

Crown corroborated his reasoning.

"All right, Hastings," he said doggedly. "I'm not going back to his
room. I gave him his chance. He can take the consequences."

"What consequences?"

"I'd hardly describe 'em to his personal representative, would I? But
you can take this from me: they'll come soon enough--and rough enough!"

Hastings made no reference to having been dismissed by Sloane. He was
glad when Crown changed the subject.

"Hastings, you saw the reporters this afternoon--I've been
wondering--they asked me--did they ask you whether you suspected the
valet--Jarvis?"

"Of what?"

"Killing her."

"No; they didn't ask me."

"Funny," said Crown, ill at ease. "They asked me."

"So you said," Hastings reminded, looking hard at him.

"Well!" Crown blurted it out. "Do you suspect him? Are you working on
that line--at all?"

Hastings paused. He had no desire to mislead him. And yet, there was no
reason for confiding in him--and delay was at present the Hastings plan.

"I'll tell you, Crown," he said, finally; "I'll work on any line that
can lead to the guilty man.--What do you know?"

"Who? Me?" Crown's tone indicated the absurdity of suspecting Jarvis.
"Not a thing."

But it gave Hastings food for thought. Was Mrs. Brace in communication
with Jarvis? And did Crown know that? Was it possible that Crown wanted
to find out whether Hastings was having Jarvis shadowed? How much of a
fool was the woman making of the sheriff, anyway?

Another thing puzzled him: why did Mrs. Brace suspect Arthur Sloane of
withholding the true story of what he had seen the night of the murder?
Hastings' suspicion, amounting to certainty, came from his knowledge
that the man's own daughter thought him deeply involved in the crime.
But Mrs. Brace--was she clever enough to make that deduction from the
known facts? Or did she have more direct information from Sloanehurst
than he had thought possible?

He decided not to leave the sheriff entirely subject to her schemes and
suggestions. He would give Mr. Crown something along another line--a
brake, as it were, on impulsive action.

"You talk about arresting Webster right away--or Sloane," he began,
suddenly confiding. "You wouldn't want to make a mistake--would you?"

Crown rose to that. "Why? What do you know--specially?"

"Well, not so much, maybe. But it's worth thinking about. I'll give you
the facts--confidentially, of course.--Hub Hill's about a hundred yards
from this house, on the road to Washington. When automobiles sink into
it hub-deep, they come out with a lot of mud on their wheels--black,
loamy mud. Ain't any other mud like that Hub Hill mud anywhere near
here. It's just special and peculiar to Hub Hill. That so?"

"Yes," agreed Crown, absorbed.

"All right. How, then, did Eugene Russell keep black, Hub Hill mud on
his shoes that night if he went the four miles on foot to where Otis
picked him up?"

"Eh?" said Crown, chin fallen.

"By the time he'd run four miles, his shoes would have been covered with
the red mud of that mile of 'dirt road' or the thin, grey mud of the
three miles of pike--wouldn't they? They'd have thrown off that Hub Hill
mud pretty quick, wouldn't they?"

"Thunder!" marvelled Crown. "That's right! And those shoes were in his
room; I saw 'em." He gurgled, far back in his throat. "Say! How did he
get from Hub Hill to where Otis picked him up?"

"That's what I say," declared Hastings, very bland. "How?"

To Lucille, after Crown's departure, the detective declared his
intention to "stand by" her, to stay on the case. He repeated his
statement of yesterday: he suspected too much, and knew too little, to
give it up.

He told her of the responsibility he had assumed in giving the sheriff
the fictitious Sloane statement. "That is, it's not fictitious, in
itself; it's what your father has been saying. But I told Crown, and I'm
going to tell the newspaper men, that he says it's all he knows, really.
And I hate to do it--because, honestly, Miss Sloane, I don't think it
is all. I'm afraid he's deceiving us."

She did not contradict that; it was her own opinion.

"However," the old man made excuse, "I had to do it--in view of things
as they are. And he's got to stick to it, now that I've made it
'official,' so to speak. Do you think he will?"

She did not see why not. She would explain to him the importance, the
necessity, of that course.

"He's so mistaken in what he's doing!" she said. "I don't understand
him--really. You know how devoted to me he is. He called me into his
room again an hour or two ago and tried to comfort me. He said he had
reason to know everything would come out as it should. But he looked
so--so uncertain!--Oh, Mr. Hastings, who did kill that woman?"

"I think I'll be able to prove who did it--let's see," he spoke with a
light cheerfulness, and at the same time with sincerity; "I'll be able
to prove it in less than a week after Mrs. Brace takes that money from
you."

She said nothing to that, and he leaned forward sharply, peering at her
face, illegible to him in the darkness of the verandah.

"So much depends on that, on you," he added. "You won't fail
me--tomorrow?"

"I'll do my best," she said, earnestly, struggling against depression.

"She must take that money," he declared with great emphasis. "She must!"

"And you think she will?"

"Miss Sloane, I know she will," he said, a fatherly encouragement in his
voice. "I'm seldom mistaken in people; and I know I've judged this woman
correctly. Money's her weakness. Love of it has destroyed her already.
Offering this bribe to anybody else situated as she is would be
ridiculous--but she--she'll take it."

Lucille sat a long time on the verandah after Hastings had gone. She was
far more depressed than he had suspected; she had to endure so much, she
thought--the suspense, which grew heavier as time went by; the
notoriety; Berne Webster still in danger of his life; her father's
inexplicable pose of indifference toward everything; the suspicions of
the newspapers and the public of both her father and Berne; and the
waiting, waiting, waiting--for what?

A little moan escaped her.

What if Mrs. Brace did take the marked money? What would that show? That
she was acting with criminal intent, Hastings had said. But he had
another and more definite object in urging her to this undertaking; he
expected from it a vital development which he had not explained--she was
sure. She worried with that idea.

Her confidence in Hastings had been without qualification. But what was
he doing? Anything? Judge Wilton was forever saying, "Trust Hastings;
he's the man for this case." And that was his reputation; people
declared that, if anybody could get to the bottom of all this mystery,
he could. Yet, two whole days had passed since the murder, and he had
just said another week might be required to work out his plan of
detection--whatever that plan was.

Another week of this! She put her hot palms to her hotter temples,
striving for clarity of thought. But she was dazed by her terror--her
isolated terror, for some of her thoughts were such that she could share
them with nobody--not even Hastings.

"If the sheriff makes no arrest within the next few days, I'll be out of
the woods," he had told her. "Delay is what I want."

There, again, was discouragement, for here was the sheriff threatening
to serve a warrant on Berne within the next twenty-four hours! She had
heard Crown make the threat, and to her it had seemed absolutely final:
unless her father revealed something which Crown wanted, whether her
father knew it or not, Berne was to be subjected to this humiliation,
this added blow to his chance for recovery!

She sprang up, throwing her hands wide and staring blindly at the stars.

The woman whom she was to bribe cast a deep shadow on her imagination.
Sharing the feeling of many others, she had reached the reluctant
conclusion that Mrs. Brace in some way knew more than anybody else about
the murder and its motives. It was, she told herself, a horrid feeling,
and without reason. But she could not shake it off. To her, Mrs. Brace
was a figure of sinister power, an agent of ugliness, waiting to do
evil--waiting for what?

By a great effort, she steadied her jangled nerves. Hastings was
counting on her. And work--even work in the dark--was preferable to this
idleness, this everlasting summing-up of frightful possibilities without
a ray of hope. She would do her best to make that woman take the money!

Tomorrow she would be of real service to Berne Webster--she would atone,
in some small measure, for the sorrow she had brought upon him,
discarding him because of empty gossip!--Would he continue to love
her?--Perhaps, if she had not discarded him, Mildred Brace would not
have been murdered.

A groan escaped her. She fled into the house, away from her thoughts.


XVI

THE BRIBE


It was nine o'clock the following evening when Lucille Sloane, sure that
she had entered the Walman unobserved, rang the bell of Mrs. Brace's
apartment. Her body felt remarkably light and facile, as if she moved in
a tenuous, half-real atmosphere. There were moments when she had the
sensation of floating. Her brain worked with extraordinary rapidity. She
was conscious of an unusually resourceful intelligence, and performed a
series of mental gymnastics, framing in advance the sentences she would
use in the interview confronting her.

The constant thought at the back of her brain was that she would
succeed; she would speak and act in such a way that Mrs. Brace would
take the money. She was buoyed by a fierce determination to be repaid
for all the suspense, all the agony of heart, that had weighed her down
throughout this long, leaden-footed day--the past twenty-four hours
unproductive of a single enlightening incident.

Mrs. Brace opened the door and, with a scarcely perceptible nod of the
head, motioned her into the living room. Neither of them spoke until
they had seated themselves on the chairs by the window. Even then, the
silence was prolonged, until Lucille realized that her tongue was dry
and uncomfortably large for her mouth. An access of trembling shook her.
She tried to smile and knew that her lips were twisting in a ghastly
grin.

Mrs. Brace moved slowly to and fro on the armless rocker, her swift,
appraising eyes taking in her visitor's distress. The smooth face wore
its customary, inexpressive calm. Lucille, striving desperately to
arrive at some opinion of what the woman thought, saw that she might as
well try to find emotion in a statue.

"I--I," the girl finally attained a quick, flurried utterance, "want to
thank you for--for having this--this talk with me."

"What do you want to talk about, Miss Sloane?"

The low, metallic voice was neither friendly nor hostile. It expressed,
more than anything else, a sardonic, bullying self-sufficiency.

It both angered and encouraged Lucille. She perceived the futility of
polite, introductory phrases here; she could go straight to her purpose,
be brutally frank. She gave Mrs. Brace a brilliant, disarming smile, a
proclamation of fellowship. Her confidence was restored.

"I'm sure we can talk sensibly together, Mrs. Brace," she explained,
dissembling her indignation. "We can get down to business, at once."

"What business?" inquired the older woman, with some of the manner
Hastings had seen, an air of lying in wait.

"I said, on the 'phone, it was something of advantage to you--didn't I?"

"Yes; you said that."

"And, of course, I want something from you."

"Naturally."

"I'll tell you what it is." Lucille spoke now with cool precision, as
yet untouched by the horror she had expected to feel. "It's a matter of
money."

Mrs. Brace's tongue came out to the edge of the thin line of her lips.
Her nostrils quivered, once, to the sharply indrawn breath. Her eyes
were more furtive.

"Money?" she echoed. "For what?"

"There's no good of my making long explanations, Mrs. Brace," Lucille
said. "I've read the newspapers, every line of them, about--our trouble.
And I saw the references to your finances, your lack of money."

"Yes?" Mrs. Brace's right hand lay on her lap; the thumb of it began to
move against the forefinger rapidly, the motion a woman makes in
feeling the texture of cloth--or the trick of a bank clerk separating
paper money.

"Yes. I read, also, what you said about the tragedy. Today I noticed
that the only note of newness in the articles in the papers came from
you--from your saying that 'in a few days, three or four at the
outside'--that was your language, I'm quite sure--you'd produce evidence
on which an arrest would be made. I've intelligence enough to see that
the public's interest in you is so great, the sympathy for you is so
great, that your threats--I mean, predictions, or opinions--colour
everything that's written by the reporters. You see?"

"Do I see what?"

Despite her excellent pose of waiting with nothing more than a polite
interest, Lucille saw in her a pronounced alteration. That was not so
much in her face as in her body. Her limbs had a look of rigidity.

"Don't you see what I mean?" Lucille insisted. "I see that you can make
endless trouble for us--for all of us at Sloanehurst. You can make
people believe Mr. Webster guilty, and that father and I are shielding
him. People listen to what you say. They seem to be on your side."

"Well?"

"I wondered if you wouldn't stop your interviews--your accusations?"

The younger woman's eagerness, evident now in the variety of her
gestures and the rapid procession of pallour and flush across her
cheeks, persuaded Mrs. Brace that Lucille was acting on an impulse of
her own, not as an agent to carry out another's well designed scheme.
The older woman, at that idea, felt safe. She asked:

"And you want--what?"

"I've come here to ask you to tell me all you know, or to be quiet
altogether."

"I'm afraid I don't understand--fully," returned Mrs. Brace, with an
exaggerated bewilderment. "Tell all I know?"

"That is, if you do know anything you haven't told!" Lucille urged her.
"Oh, don't you see? I'm saying to you that I want to put an end to this
dreadful suspense!"

Mrs. Brace laughed disagreeably; her face was harder, less human. "You
mean I'm amusing myself, exerting myself needlessly, as a matter of
spite? Do you mean to tell me that?"

"No! No!" Lucille denied, impatient with herself for lack of clearness.
"I mean I'm sure you're attacking an innocent man. And I'm willing, I'm
anxious--oh, I hope so much, Mrs. Brace--to make an agreement with
you--a financial arrangement----" She paused the fractional part of a
second on that; and, seeing that the other did not resent the term, she
added: "to pay you to stop it. Isn't that clear?"

"Yes; that's clear."

"Understand me, please. What I ask is that you say nothing more to the
reporters, the sheriff or the Washington police, that will have the
effect of hounding them on against Mr. Webster. I want to eliminate from
the situation all the influence you've exerted to make Mr. Crown believe
Mr. Webster's guilty and my father's protecting him."

"Let me think," Mrs. Brace said, coolly.

Lucille exulted inwardly, "She'll do it! She'll do it!" The hard eyes
dissected her eager face. The girl drew back in her chair, thinking now:
"She suspects who sent me!"

At last, the older woman spoke:

"The detective, Hastings, would never have allowed you to come here,
Miss Sloane.--Excuse my frankness," she interjected, with a smile she
meant to be friendly; "but you're frank with me; we're not mincing
matters; and I have to be careful.--He'd have warned you that your
errand's practical confession of your knowledge of something
incriminating Berne Webster. If you didn't suspect the man even more
strongly than I do, you'd never have been driven to--this."

She leaned the rocker back and crossed her knees, the movement throwing
into high relief the hard lankness of her figure. She gazed at the wall,
over Lucille's head, as she dealt with the possibilities that presented
themselves to her analysis. Her manner was that of a certain gloating
enjoyment, a thinly covered, semi-orderly greediness.

"She's not even thinking of her daughter," Lucille thought, and went
pale a moment. "She's as bad as Mr. Hastings said--worse!"

"Then, too," Mrs. Brace continued, "your father discharged him last
night."

Lucille remembered the detective's misgivings about Jarvis; how else had
this woman found that out?

"And you've taken matters into your own hands.--Did your father send you
here--to me?"

"Why, no!"

The other smiled slyly, the tip of her tongue again visible, her
eyebrows high in interrogation. "Of course," she said; "you wouldn't
tell me if he had. He would have warned you against that admission."

"It's Mr. Webster about whom I am most concerned," Lucille reminded,
sharpness in her vibrant young voice. "My father's being annoyed is
merely incidental."

"Oh, of course! Of course," Mrs. Brace grinned, with broad sarcasm.

Lucille started. The meaning of that could not be misunderstood; she
charged that the money was offered at Arthur Sloane's instigation and
that the concern for Berne Webster was merely pretence.

Mrs. Brace saw her anger, and placated it:

"Don't mind me, Miss Sloane. A woman who's had to endure what I
have--well, she doesn't always think clearly."

"Perhaps not," Lucille assented; but she was aware of a sudden longing
to be done with the degrading work. "Now that we understand each other,
Mrs. Brace, what do you say?"

Mrs. Brace thought again.

"How much?" she asked at last, her lips thickening. "How much, Miss
Sloane, do you think my silence is worth?"

Lucille took a roll of bills from her handbag. The woman's chair slid
forward, answering to the forward--leaning weight of her new posture.
She was lightly rubbing her palms together, as, with head a little
bowed, she stared at the money in the younger woman's hand.

"I have here five hundred dollars," Lucille began.

"What!"

Mrs. Brace said that roughly; and, in violent anger, drew back, the
legs of her chair grating on the floor.

For a moment Lucille gazed at her, uncomprehending.

"Oh!" she said, uncertainly. "You mean--it isn't enough?"

"Enough!" Mrs. Brace's rage and disappointment grew, her lowered brows a
straight line close down to her eyes.

"But I could get more!" Lucille exclaimed, struggling with disgust.
"This," she added, with ready invention, "can serve as a part payment, a
promise of----"

"Ah-h!" the older woman exclaimed. "That's different. I misunderstood."

She put down the signals of her wrath, succeeding in that readjustment
so promptly that Lucille stared at her in undisguised amazement.

"You must pardon me, Miss Sloane. I thought you were making me the
victim of your ridicule, some heartless joke."

"Then, we can come to an agreement? That is, if this money is the
first----"

She broke the sentence. Mrs. Brace had put up her hand, and now held her
head to one side, listening.

There was a step clearly audible outside, in the main hall. The next
moment the doorbell rang. They sat motionless. When the bell rang
again, Mrs. Brace informed her with a look that she would not answer it.

But the ringing continued, became a prolonged jangle. It got on
Lucille's already strained nerves.

"Suppose you slip into the bedroom," Mrs. Brace whispered.

"Oh, no!" Lucille whispered back.

She was weighed down by black premonition; she hoped Mrs. Brace would
not open the door.

The bell rang again.

"You'll have to!" Mrs. Brace said at last. "I won't let anybody in. I
have to answer it!"

"You'll send them away--whoever it is--at once?"

"At once. I don't want you seen here, any more than you want to be
seen!"

Lucille started toward the bedroom. At the first step she took, Mrs.
Brace put a hand on her arm.

"That money!" she demanded, in a low whisper. "I'll take it."

"And do what I asked--stop attacking us?"

"Yes. Yes!"

Lucille gave her the money.

There were no lights in the bedroom. Lucille, for fear of stumbling or
making a noise, stood to one side of the door-frame, close to the wall.

Mrs. Brace's footsteps stopped. There was the click of the opening
door. Then, there came to Lucille the high-pitched, querulous voice
which she had been afraid she would hear.

It was her father's.


XVII

"THE WHOLE TRUTH"


"Mrs. Brace, good evening.--May I come in?"

Then followed the sound of footsteps, and the closing of the door.

"I shan't detain you long, Mrs. Brace." They were still in the hall.
"May I come in?"

"Certainly." The tardy assent was the perfection of indifference.

They entered the living room. Lucille, without using her eyes, knew that
her father was standing just within the doorway, glancing around with
his slight squint, working his lips nervously, his head thrust forward.

"Ah-h!" his shrill drawl, although he kept it low, carried back to
Lucille. "All alone--may I ask?" He went toward the chairs by the
window. "That is, I hope to have--well--rather a confidential little
talk with you."

Mrs. Brace resumed her place on the armless rocker after she had moved a
chair forward for him. Lucille heard it grate on the floor. Certain that
he had taken it, she looked into the room. Her intuition was correct;
Mrs. Brace had placed it so that his back was turned to both the bedroom
door and the door into the entry. This made her escape possible.

The relief she got from the thought was of a violent nature. It came to
her like a blow, almost forcing a gasp from her constricted throat. If
she could tiptoe without sound a distance of eighteen feet, a matter of
six or seven steps, she could leave the apartment without his knowledge.

To that she was doubly urged. In the first place, Hastings' warning
drummed upon her brain; he had specified the importance of keeping even
her father in ignorance of her errand.

Upon that came another reason for flight, her fear of hearing what her
father would say. A wave of nausea weakened her. She bowed down, there
in the dark, under the burden of her suspicion: he had come to do, for
quite a different reason, what she had done! She kept away from definite
analysis of his motive. Fear for Berne, or fear for himself, it was
equally horrible to her consideration.

"I admire your spirit, Mrs. Brace," he was saying, in ingratiating tone;
"and your shrewdness. I've followed all you said, in the papers. And I'm
in hopes that we may----"

He stopped, and Lucille, judging from the thin edges of sounds that she
caught, had a mental picture of his peering over his shoulder. He
resumed:

"I must apologize, I'm sure. But you'll realize my concern for
secrecy--after I've explained. May I--ah-h-h--do you mind if I look
about, for possible hearers?"

"It's unnecessary," came the calm, metallic assurance. "I've no
objection to your searching my apartment, if you insist." She laughed, a
mirthless deprecation of his timidity, and coolly put herself at his
disposal in another sentence: "I've sense enough to form an idea of what
you'll propose; and I'd scarcely want others to hear it--would I?"

"Ah-h-h!" he drawled, expressing a grudging disposition to accept her
assurance. "Certainly not.--Well, that's very reasonable--and obliging,
I'm sure."

Again by the thin fringes of sound, Lucille got information of his
settling into his chair.

"Why," he began; "why, in the name of all the unfathomable, inscrutable
angels----"

"First, Mr. Sloane," Mrs. Brace interrupted him--and Lucille heard the
rattle of a newspaper; "as a preface to our--shall we say
conference?--our conference, then, let me read you this summary of my
position.--That is, if you care to understand my position thoroughly."

She was far from her habitual quietness, rattling the newspaper
incessantly. The noise, Lucille realized, would hang as a curtain
between her father's ears and the possible sounds of her progress from
the bedroom door to the entry.

Stealing a glance into the living room, she saw his back and, over his
stooped shoulders, Mrs. Brace's calm face. In that instant, the
newspaper shook more violently--enough, she thought, to signal
cooperation.

She sickened again at sight of that woman about to dispense bought
favours to her father. The impulse to step forth and proclaim her
presence rose strongly within her; but she was turned from it by fear
that her interruption might produce disastrous results. After all, she
was not certain of his intention.

She knew, however, that at any moment he might insist on satisfying
himself, by a tour of inspection, that he was safe from being overheard.
She hesitated no longer. She would try to get away.

"Look at this, Mr. Sloane, if you please," Mrs. Brace was saying;
"notice how the items are made to stand out, each in a paragraph of
large type."

She held the paper so that Sloane bent forward, and, against his will,
was held to joint perusal while she read aloud. The curtain of
protecting noise thus was thickened.

"'That Mrs. Brace has knowledge of the following facts,'" the harsh,
colourless voice was reading.

Lucille began her escape. She moved with an agony of precaution, taking
steps only a few inches long, her arms held out from her sides to avoid
unnecessary rustling of her clothing. She went on the balls of her feet,
keeping the heels of her shoes always free of the floor, each step a
slow torture.

Her breathing stopped--a hysterical contraction of her chest prevented
breathing. Her face burned like fire. Her head felt crowded, as if the
blood tried to ooze through the confining scalp. There was a great
roaring in her ears. The pulse in her temples was like the blows of
sledges.

Once, midway of the distance, as she stood lightly balanced, with arms
outstretched, something went wrong with her equilibrium. She started
forward as she had often done when a child, with the sensation of
falling on her face. Her skirt billowed out in front of her. If she had
had any breath in her, she would have cried out.

But the automatisms of her body worked better than her overtaxed brain.
Her right foot went out easily and softly--she marvelled at that
independent motion of her leg--and, taking up the falling weight of her
body, restored her balance.

Mrs. Brace's voice had not faltered, although she must have seen the
misstep. Arthur Sloane's bowed shoulders had not stirred. Mrs. Brace
continued the printed enumeration of her stores of knowledge.

Lucille took another step. She was safe!--almost. There remained but a
yard of her painful progress. One more step, she comforted herself,
would put her on the threshold of the entry door, and from there to the
corridor door, shielded by the entry wall from possible observation by
her father, would be an easy business.

She completed that last step. On the threshold, she had to turn her body
through an arc of ninety degrees, unless she backed out of the door.
This she was afraid to do; her heel might meet an obstruction; a raised
plank of the flooring, even, would mean an alarming noise.

She began to turn. The reading continued. The whole journey from door to
door, in spite of the anguished care of every step, had consumed
scarcely a minute. She was turning, the balancing arms outstretched.
Deep down in her chest there was the beginning of a sensation, muscles
relaxing, the promise of a long breath of relief.

Her left hand--or, perhaps, her elbow; in the blinding, benumbing flash
of consternation, she did not know which--touched the pile of magazines
on the table that was set against the door-frame. The magazines did not
fall to the floor, but the fluttering of the loose cover of the one on
top made a noise.

She fled, taking with her the flashing memory of the first stirring of
her father's figure and the crackle of the paper in Mrs. Brace's hand.
In two light steps she was at the corridor door. Her hands found the
latch and turned it. She ran down the stairs with rapid, skimming steps,
the door clicking softly shut as she made the turn on the next landing.

Her exit had been wonderfully quiet. She knew this, in spite of the fact
that her straining senses had exaggerated the flutter of the magazine
cover and the click of the door into a terrifying volume of sound. It
was entirely possible that Mrs. Brace had been able to persuade her
father that he had heard nothing more than some outside noise. She was
certain that he had not seen her.

She crossed the dim, narrow lobby of the Walman so quickly, and so
quietly, that the girl at the telephone board did not look in her
direction.

Once in the street, she was seized by desire to confide to Hastings the
story of her experience. She decided to act on the impulse.


He was at first more concerned with her physical condition than with
what she had to tell. He saw how near she was to the breaking point.

"My dear child!" he said, in the tone of fatherly solicitude which she
had learned to like. "Comfort before conference! Here, this chair by the
window--so--and this wreck of a fan, can you use it? Fine! Now, cool
your flushed face in this thin, very thin stream of a breeze--feel it? A
glass of water?--just for the tinkling of ice? That's better, isn't it?"

The only light in the room was the reading lamp, under a dark-green
shade, and from this little island of illumination there ran out a
chaotic sea of shadows, huge waves of them, mounting the height of the
book-shelves and breaking irregularly on the ceiling.

In the dimness, as he walked back and forth hunting for the fan or
bringing her the water, he looked weirdly large--like, she thought
dully, a fairy giant curiously draped. But the serenity of his
expression touched her. She was glad she had come.

While she told her story, he stood in front of her, encouraging her
with a smile or a nod now and then, or ambled with soft step among the
shadows, always keeping his eyes upon her. For the moment, her tired
spirit was freshened by his lavish praise of the manner in which she had
accomplished her undertaking. Following that, his ready sympathy made it
easier for her to discuss her fear that her father had planned to bribe
Mrs. Brace.

Nevertheless, the effort taxed her severely. At the end of it, she
leaned back and closed her eyes, only to open them with a start of
fright at the resultant dizziness. The sensation of bodily lightness had
left her. Her limbs felt sheathed in metal. An acute, throbbing pain
racked her head. She was too weary to combat the depression which was
like a cold, freezing hand at her heart.

"You don't say anything!" she complained weakly.

He stood near her chair, gazing thoughtfully before him.

"I'm trying to understand it," he said; "why your father did that.
You're right, of course. He went there to pay her to keep quiet. But
why?"

He looked at her closely.

"Could it be possible," he put the inquiry at last, "that he knew her
before the murder?"

"I've asked him," she said. "No; he never had heard of her--neither he
nor Judge Wilton. I even persuaded him to question Jarvis about that. It
was the same; Jarvis never had--until last Sunday morning."

"You think of everything!" he congratulated her.

"No! Oh, no!"

Some quick and overmastering emotion broke down the last of her
endurance. Whether it was a new and finer appreciation of his
persistent, untiring search for the guilty man, or the realization of
how sincerely he liked her, giving her credit for a frankness she had
not exercised--whatever the pivotal consideration was, she felt that she
could no longer deceive him.

She closed her lips tightly, to keep back the rising sobs, and regarded
him with questioning, fearful eyes.

"What is it?" he asked gently, reading her appealing look.

"I've a confession to make," she said miserably.

He refused to treat it as a tragedy.

"But it can't be very bad!" he exclaimed pleasantly. "When we're
overwrought, imagination's like a lantern swinging in the wind, changing
the size of everything every second."

"But it is bad!" she insisted. "I haven't been fair. I couldn't bring
myself to tell you this. I tried to think you'd get along without it!"

"And now?"

She answered him with an outward calmness which was, in reality,
emotional dullness. She had suffered so much that to feel vividly was
beyond her strength.

"You have the right to know it," she said, looking at him out of
brilliant, unwinking eyes. "It's about father. He was out there--on the
lawn--before he turned on the light in his room. I heard him come in, a
minute before Berne went down the back stairs and out to the lawn. And I
heard him go to his window and stand there, looking out, at least five
long minutes before he flashed on his light."

He waited, thinking she might have more to tell. Construing his silence
as reproof, she said, without changing either her expression or her
voice:

"I know--it's awful. I should have told you. Perhaps, I've done great
harm."

"You've been very brave," he consoled her, with infinite tenderness.
"But it happens that I'd already satisfied myself on that point. I knew
he'd been out there."

She was dumb, incapable of reacting to his words. Even the fact that he
was smiling, with genuine amusement, did not affect her.

"Here comes the grotesque element, the comical, that's involved in so
many tragedies," he explained. "Your father's weakness for 'cure' of
nervousness, and his shrinking from the ridicule he's suffered because
of it--there's the explanation of why he was out there that night."

She could not see significance in that, but neither could she summon
energy to say so. She wondered vaguely why he thought it funny.

"That night--rather, the early morning hours following--while the rest
of you were in the library, I looked through his room, and I found a
pair of straw sandals in the closet--such as a man could slip on and off
without having to bend down to adjust them. And they were wet, inside
and out.

"Sunday morning, when Judge Wilton and I were at his bedside, I saw on
the table a 'quack' pamphlet on the 'dew' treatment for nervousness, the
benefit of the 'wet, cooling grass' upon the feet at night. You know the
kind of thing. So----"

"Oh-h-h!" she breathed, tremulous and weak. "So that's why he was out
there! Why didn't I think? Oh, how I've suspected him of----"

"But remember," he warned; "that's why he went out. We still don't know
what he--what happened after he got out there--or why he's refused to
say that he ever was out there. When we think of this, and other things,
and, too, his call tonight on Mrs. Brace, for bribery--leaving what we
thought was a sickbed--"

"But he's been up all day!" she corrected.

"And yet," he said, and stopped, reflecting.

"Tell me," she implored; "tell me, Mr. Hastings, do you suspect my
father--or not--of the----?"

He answered her unfinished question with a solemn, painstaking care:

"Miss Sloane, you're not one who would want to be misled. You can bear
the truth. I'd be foolish to say that he's not under suspicion. He is.
Any one of the men there that night may have committed the murder.
Webster, your father, Wilton--only there, suspicion seems totally
gratuitous--Eugene Russell, Jarvis--I've heard things about him--any one
of them may have struck that blow--may have."

"And father," she said, in a grieved bewilderment, "has paid Mrs. Brace
to stop saying she suspects Berne," she shuddered, facing the
alternative, "or himself!"

"You see," he framed the conclusion for her, "how hard he makes it for
us to keep him out of trouble--if that gets out. He's put his hand on
the live wire of circumstantial evidence, a wire that too often
thrashes about, striking the wrong man."

"And Berne?" she cried out. "I think I could stand anything if only I
knew----"

But this time the mutinous sobs came crowding past her lips. She could
not finish the inquiry she had begun.


XVIII

THE MAN WHO RODE AWAY


It was early in the afternoon of Wednesday when Mr. Hastings, responding
to the prolonged ringing of his telephone, took the receiver off the
hook and found himself in communication with the sheriff of Alexandria
county. This was not the vacillating, veering sheriff who had spent
nearly four days accepting the hints of a detective or sitting,
chameleon-minded, at the feet of a designing woman. Here was an
impressive and self-appreciative gentleman, one who delighted in his own
deductive powers and relished their results.

He said so. His confidence fairly rattled the wire. His words
annihilated space grandly and leaped into the old man's receptive ear
with sizzling and electric effect. Mr. Crown, triumphant, was glad to
inform others that he was making a hit with himself.

"Hello! That you, Hastings? Well, old fellow, I don't like to annoy you
with an up-to-date rendition of 'I told you so!'--but it's come out, to
the last syllable, exactly as I said it would--from the very first!"

Ensued a pause, for dramatic effect. The detective did not break it.

"Waiting, are you? Well, here she goes; Russell's alibi's been knocked
into a thousand pieces! It's blown up! It's gone glimmering!--What do
you think of that?"

Hastings refrained from replying that he had regarded such an event as
highly probable. Instead, he inquired:

"And that simplifies things?"

"Does it!" exploded Mr. Crown. "I'm getting to you a few minutes ahead
of the afternoon papers. You'll see it all there." An apologetic laugh
came over the wire. "You'll excuse me, I know; I had to do this thing up
right, put on the finishing touches before you even guessed what was
going on. I've wound up the whole business. The Washington police nabbed
Russell an hour ago, on my orders.

"'Simplifies things?' I should say so! I guess you can call 'em
'simplified' when a murder's been committed and the murderer's waiting
to step into my little ring-tum-fi-diddle-dee of a country jail! 'No
clue to this mystery,' the papers have been saying! What's the use of a
clue when you _know_ a guy's guilty? That's what I've been whistling all
along!"

"But the alibi?" Hastings prompted. "You say it's blown up?"

"Blown! Gone! Result of my sending out those circulars asking if any
automobile parties passed along the Sloanehurst road the murder night.
Remember?"

"Yes." The old man recalled having made that suggestion, but did not say
so.

"This morning the chief of police of York--York, Pennsylvania--wired me.
I got him by long-distance right away. He gave me the story, details
absolutely right and straight, all verified--and everything. A York man,
named Stevens, saw a newspaper account, for the first time this morning,
of the murder. He and four other fellows were in a car that went up Hub
Hill that night a little after eleven--a few minutes after.--Hear that?"

"Yes. Go on."

"Stevens was on the back seat. They went up the hill on low--terrible
piece of road, he calls it--they were no more than crawling. He says he
was the only sober man in the crowd--been out on a jollification tour of
ten days. He saw a man slide on to the running board on his side of the
car as they were creeping up the hill. The rest of the party was
singing, having a high old time.

"Stevens said he never said a word, just watched the guy on the running
board, and planned to crack him on the head with an empty beer bottle
when they got on the straight road and were hitting up a good clip--just
playing, you understand.

"After he'd watched the guy a while and was trying to fish up a beer
bottle from the bottom of the car, the chauffeur slowed down and
hollered back to him on the back seat that he wanted to stop and look at
his radiator--it was about to blow up, too hot. He'd been burning the
dust on that stretch of good road.

"When he slowed down, the guy on the running board slipped off. Stevens
says he rolled down a bank."

The jubilant Mr. Crown stopped, for breath.

"That's all right, far as it goes," Hastings said; "but does he identify
that man as Russell?"

"To the last hair on his head!" replied the sheriff. "Stevens'
description of the fellow is Russell all over--all over! Just to show
you how good it is, take this: Stevens describe the clothes Russell
wore, and says what Otis said: he'd lost his hat."

"Stevens got a good look at him?"

"Says the headlights were full on him as he stood on one side of the
road, there on Hub Hill, waiting to slide on the running board.--And
this Stevens is a shrewd guy, the York chief says. I guess his story
plugs Russell's lies, shoots that alibi so full of holes it makes a
sifter look like a piece of sheet-iron!

"That car went up Hub Hill at seven minutes past eleven--that means
Russell had plenty of time to kill the girl after the rain stopped and
to get out on the road and slip on to that running board. And the car
slowed up, where he rolled off the running board, at eighteen minutes
past eleven.

"Time's right, location's right, identification's right!--Pretty sweet,
ain't it, old fellow? Congratulate me, don't you? Congratulate me, even
if it does step on all those mysterious theories of yours--that right?"

Hastings bestowed the desired felicitations upon the exuberant conqueror
of crime.

Turning from the telephone, he gazed a long time at the piece of grey
envelope on the table before him. He had clung to his belief that, in
those fragments of words, was to be found a clue to the solution of the
mystery. He picked up his knife and fell to whittling.

Outside in the street a newsboy set up an abrupt, blaring din, shouting
sensational headlines:


  "SLOANEHURST MYSTERY SOLVED!--RUSSELL THE MURDERER!--ALIBI A FAKE!"


The old man considered grimly, the various effects of this development
in the case--Lucille Sloane's unbounded relief mingled with censure of
him for having added to her fears, and especially for having subjected
her to the ordeal of last night's experience with Mrs. Brace--the
adverse criticism from both press and public because of his refusal to
join in the first attacks upon Russell, Arthur Sloane's complacency at
never having treated him with common courtesy.

His thoughts went to Mrs. Brace and her blackmail schemes, as he had
interpreted or suspected them.

"If I'd had a little more time," he reflected, "I might have put my hand
on----"

His eyes rested on the envelope flap. His mind flashed to another and
new idea. His muscles stiffened; he put his hands on the arms of his
chair and slowly lifted himself up, the knife dropping from his fingers
and clattering on the floor. He stood erect and held both hands aloft, a
gesture of wide and growing wonder.

"Cripes!" he said aloud.

He picked up the grey paper with a hand that trembled. His pendent
cheeks puffed out like those of a man blowing a horn. He stared at the
paper again, before restoring it to its envelope, which he put back into
one of his pockets.

"Cripes!" he said again. "It's a place! Pursuit! That's where the----"

He became a whirlwind of action, covered the floor with springy step.
Taking a book of colossal size from a shelf, he whirled the pages,
running his finger down a column while he murmured,
"Pursuit--P-u-r--P-u--P-u----"

But there was no such name in the postal directory. He went back to
older directories. He began to worry. Was there no such postoffice as
Pursuit? He went to other books, whirling the pages, running down column
after column. And at last he got the information he sought.

Consulting a railroad folder, he found a train schedule that caused him
to look at his watch.

"Twenty-five minutes," he figured. "I'm going!"

He telephoned for a cab.

Then, seating himself at the table, he tore a sheet from a scratch-pad
and wrote:

"Don't lose sight of Mrs. Brace. Disregard Russell's arrest.

"Hendricks: the Sloanehurst people are members of the Arlington Golf
Club. Get a look at golf bags there. Did one, or two, contain piece or
pieces of a bed-slat?

"Gore: check up on Mrs. B.'s use of money.

"I'll be back Sunday."

He sealed the envelope into which he put that, and, addressing it to
Hendricks, left it lying on the table.

At the station he bought the afternoon newspapers and turned to Eugene
Russell's statement, made to the reporters immediately after his arrest.
It ran:

"I repeat that I'm innocent of the murder. Of course, I made a mistake
in omitting all mention of my having ridden the first four miles from
Sloanehurst. But, being innocent and knowing the weight of the
circumstantial evidence against me, I could not resist the temptation to
make my alibi good. I neither committed that murder nor witnessed it.
The story I told at the inquest of what happened to me and what I did at
Sloanehurst stands. It is the truth."


XIX

"PURSUIT!"


Returning from his trip Sunday morning, the detective, after a brief
conference with Hendricks, had gone immediately to Mrs. Brace's
apartment. She sat now, still and watchful, on the armless rocker by the
window, waiting for him to disclose the object of his visit. Except the
lifted, faintly interrogating eyebrows, there was nothing in her face
indicative of what she thought.

He caught himself comparing her to a statue, forever seated on the
low-backed, uncomfortable chair, awaiting without emotion or alteration
of feature the outcome of her evil scheming. Her hardness gave him the
impression of something hammered on, beaten into an ugly pattern.

Having that imperturbability to overcome, he struck his first blow with
surprising directness.

"I'm just back from Pursuit," he said.

That was the first speech by either of them since the monosyllabic
greeting at the door. He saw that she had prepared herself for such an
announcement; but the way she took it reminded him of a door shaken by
the impact of a terrific blow. A little shiver, for all her force of
repression, moved her from head to foot.

"You are?" she responded, her voice controlled, the hard face untouched
by the shock to which her body had responded.

"Yes; I got back half an hour ago, and, except for one of my assistants,
you're the first person I've seen." When that drew no comment from her,
he added: "I want you to remember that--later on."

He began to whittle.

"Why?" she asked with genuine curiosity, after a pause.

"Because it may be well for you to know that I'm dealing with you alone,
and fairly.--I got all the facts concerning you."

"Concerning me?" Her tone intimated doubt.

"Now, Mrs. Brace!" he exclaimed, disapproving her apparent intention.
"You're surely not going to pretend ignorance--or innocence!"

She crossed her knees, and, putting her left forearm across her body,
rested her right elbow in that hand. She began to rock very gently, her
posture causing her to lean forward and giving her a look of continual
but polite questioning.

"If you want to talk to me," she said, her voice free of all feeling,
"you'll have to tell me what it's about."

"All right; I will," he returned. "You'll remember, I take it, my asking
you to tell me the meaning of the marks on the flap of the grey
envelope. I'll admit I was slow, criminally slow, in coming to the
conclusion that 'Pursuit!' referred to a place rather than an act. But I
got it finally--and I found Pursuit--not much left of it now; it's not
even a postoffice.

"But it's discoverable," he continued on a sterner note, and began to
shave long, slender chips from his block of wood. "I'll give you the
high lights: young Dalton was killed--his murderer made a run for
it--but you, a young widow then, in whose presence the thing was done,
smoothed matters out. You swore it was a matter of self-defence. The
result was that, after a few half-hearted attempts to locate the
fugitive, the pursuit was given up."

"Very well. But why bring that story here--now? What's its
significance?"

He stared at her in amazement. Her thin, sensitive lips were drawn back
at the corners, enough to make her mouth look a trifle wider--and enough
to suggest dimly that their motion was the start of a vindictive
grimace. Otherwise, she was unmoved, unresponsive to the open threat of
what he had said.

"Let me finish," he retorted. "An unfortunate feature, for you, was
that you seemed to have made money out of the tragedy. In straitened
circumstances previously, you began to spend freely--comparatively
speaking--a few days after the murderer's disappearance. In fact,
bribery was hinted; you had to leave the village. See any significance
in that?" he concluded, with irony.

"Suppose you explain it," she said, still cool.

"The significance is in the strengthening of the theory I've had
throughout the whole week that's passed since your daughter was killed
at Sloanehurst."

"What's that?"

She stopped rocking; her eyes played a fiery tattoo on every feature of
his face.

"Your daughter's death was the unexpected result of your attempts to
blackmail young Dalton's murderer. You, being afraid of him, and not
confessing that timidity to Mildred, persuaded her to approach him--in
person."

"I! Afraid of him!" she objected, aroused at last.

Her brows were lowered, a heavy line above her furtive, swift eyes; her
nostrils fluttered nervously.

"Granting your absurd theory," she continued, "why should I have feared
him? What had he done--except strike to save his own life?"

"You forget, Mrs. Brace," he corrected. "That body showed twenty-nine
wounds, twenty-eight of them unnecessary--if the first was inflicted in
mere self-defence. It was horrible mutilation."

"So!" she ridiculed, with obvious effort. "You picture him as a
butcher."

"Precisely. And you, having seen to what lengths his murderous fury
could take him, were afraid to face him--even after your long, long
search had located him again. Let's be sensible, Mrs. Brace. Let's give
the facts of this business a hearing.

"You had come to Washington and located him at last. But, after
receiving several demands from you, he'd stopped reading your
letters--sent them back unopened. Consequently, in order for you to make
an appointment with him, he had to be communicated with in a handwriting
he didn't know. Hence, your daughter had to write the letter making that
appointment a week ago last night. Then, however----"

"What makes you think----"

"Then, however," he concluded, overbearing her with his voice, "you
hadn't the courage to face him--out there, in the dark, alone. You
persuaded Mildred to go--in your place. And he killed her."

"Ha!" The mocking exclamation sounded as though it had been pounded out
of her by a blow upon her back. "What makes you say that? Where do you
get that? Who put that into your head?"

She volleyed those questions at him with indescribable rapidity, her
lips drawn back from her teeth, her brows straining far up toward the
line of her hair. The profound disgust with which he viewed her did not
affect her. She darted to and fro in her mind, running about in the
waste and tumult of her momentary confusion, seeking the best thing to
say, the best policy to adopt, for her own ends.

He had had time to determine that much when her gift of self-possession
reasserted itself. She forced her lips back to their thin line, and
steadied herself. He could see the vibrant tautness of her whole body,
exemplified in the rigidity with which she held her crossed knees, one
crushed upon the other.

"I know, I think, what misled you," she answered her own question.
"You've talked to Gene Russell, of course. He may have heard--I think he
did hear--Mildred and me discussing the mailing of a letter that Friday
night."

"He did," Hastings said, firmly.

"But he couldn't have heard anything to warrant your theory, Mr.
Hastings. I merely made fun of her wavering after she'd once said she'd
confront Berne Webster again with her appeal for fair play."

He inspected her with an emotion that was a mingling of incredulity and
repugnant wonder.

"It's no use, Mrs. Brace," he told her. "Russell didn't see the name of
the man to whom the letter was addressed. I saw him last Sunday
afternoon. He told me he took the name for granted, because Mildred had
taunted him, saying it went to Webster. As a matter of fact, he wanted
to see if Webster was at Sloanehurst and fastened his eyes for a
fleeting glimpse on that word--and on that alone. Besides, there are
facts to prove that the letter did not go to Webster.--Do you see how
your fancied security falls away?"

"Let me think," she said, her tone flat and impersonal.

She was silent, her restless eyes gazing at the wall over his head. He
watched her, and glanced only at intervals at the wood he was aimlessly
shaving.

"Of course," she said, after a while, looking at him with a speculative,
deliberating air, "you've deduced and pieced this together. You've a
woman's intuition--comprehension of motives, feelings."

She was silent again.

"Pieced what together?" he asked.

"It's plain enough, isn't it? You began with your suspicion that my need
of money was heavier in my mind than grief at Mildred's death. On that,
you built up--well, all you've just said."

"It was more than a suspicion," he corrected. "It was knowledge--that
everything you did, after her death, was intended to help along your
scheme to--we'll say, to get money."

It will he noticed that according to this account the dinner was served
to all at the same time, Montezuma and several chiefs eating at
one end of the room, but no mention is made of the manner in which
the remainder ate.

The six hundred men (or less) who remained about the house and
courts during the day, we may well suppose, were, with their families,
joint residents and joint proprietors with Montezuma of the
establishment.

Two or three structures are mingled in these descriptions, which were
probably entirely distinct in their uses.

Herrera gathered up the subsequent growth of the story, which
undoubtedly made a great sensation in Europe as a part of the picture
of life in the New World; and embellished it from sheer delight in
a marvelous tale.

The few facts stated by Bernal Diaz, expressing the interpretation of the
Spanish soldiers, were fruitful seeds planted three hundred years
ago, which the imaginations of enthusiastic authors have developed
into a glowing and picturesque narrative.

The principal part of Herrera'a account runs as follows:
"Montezuma did always eat alone, and so great a quantity of meat was
served up to his table, such great variety, and so richly dressed, that
there was sufficient for all the prime men of his household.

His table was a cushion, or two pieces of colored leather; instead of
a chair, a little low stool, made of one piece, the seat hollowed
out, carved and painted in the best manner that could be; the
table-cloth, napkins, and towels of very fine cotton as white as
snow, and never served any more than once, being the fees of the
proper officers.

The meat was brought in by four hundred pages, all gentlemen, sons
of lords, and set down together in a hall; the king went thither,
and with a rod, or his hand, pointed to what he liked, and then the
sewer set it upon the chafing-dishes that it might not be cold; and
this he never failed to do, unless the steward at any time very
much recommended to him some particular dishes.

Before he sat down, twenty of the most beautiful women came and brought
him water to wash his hands, and when seated the sewer did shut a wooded
rail that divided the room, lest the nobility that went to see him dine
should encumber the table, and he alone set on and took off the
dishes, for the pages neither came near nor spoke a word.

Strict silence was observed, none daring to speak unless it was
some jester, or the person of whom he asked a question.

The sewer was always upon his knees and barefooted, attending him
without lifting up his eyes.
No man with shoes on was to come into the room upon pain of death.
The sewer also gave him drink in a cup of several shapes, sometimes of
gold, and sometimes of silver, sometimes of gourd, and sometimes
of the shells of fishes."

[Footnote: Solis, thinking a cocoanut shell altogether too plain, embellishes
the shell with jewels: "He had cups of gold, and salvers of the
same; and sometimes he drank out of cocoas and natural shells
very richly set with jewels."--History of the Conquest of Mexico, Lond.,
ed. 1738, Townshend's Trans., I, 417.]

"Six ancient lords attended at a distance, to whom he gave some dishes
of what he liked best, which they did eat there with much respect. He
had always music of flutes, reeds, horns, shells, kettle-drums,
and other instruments, nothing agreeable to the ears of the
Spaniards....

There were always at dinner dwarfs, crooked and other deformed
persons, to provoke laughter, and they did eat of what was left at
the further end of the hall, with the jesters and buffoons.

he asked.

"Yes. When he left Pursuit, he destroyed the better part of me--what you
would call the good part."

She said that without sentimentalism, without making it a plea for
sympathy; she had better sense, he saw, than to imagine that she could
arouse sympathy on that ground.

"And," she continued, with intense malignity, "what was so monstrous in
my asking him for money? I asked him for no payment of what he really
owes me. That's a debt he can't pay! My beauty, destroyed, withered and
covered over with the hard mask of the features you see now; my
capacity for happiness, dead, swallowed up in my long, long devotion to
my purpose to find him again--those things, man as you are, you realize
are beyond the scope of payment or repayment!"

Without rising to a standing position, she leaned so far forward that
her weight was all on her feet, and, although her figure retained the
posture of one seated on a chair, she was in fact independent of support
from it, and held herself crouching in front of him, taut, a tremor in
her limbs because of the strain.

Her hands were held out toward him, the tips of her stiffened,
half-closed fingers less than a foot from his face. Her brows were drawn
so high that the skin of her forehead twitched, as if pulled upward by
another's hand. It was with difficulty that he compelled himself to
witness the climax of her rage. Only his need of what she knew kept him
still.

"Money!" she said, her lean arms in continual motion before him. "You're
right, there. I wanted money. I made up my mind I'd have it. It was such
a purpose of mine, so strongly grown into my whole being, that even
Mildred's death couldn't lessen or dislodge it. And there was more than
the want of money in my never letting loose of my intention to find
him. He couldn't strip me bare and get away! You've understood me pretty
well. You know it was written, on the books, that he and I should come
together again--no matter how far he went, or how cleverly!

"And I see now!" she gave him her decision, and, as she did so, rose to
an upright position, her hands at her sides going half-shut and open,
half-shut and open, as if she made mental pictures of the closing in of
her long pursuit. "I'll say what you want me to say. Confront him; put
me face to face with him, and I'll say the letter went to him. Oh, never
fear! I'll say the appropriate thing, and the convincing
thing--appropriately convincing!"

Her eyes glittered, countering his searching glance, as she stood over
him, her body flung a little forward from the waist, her arms busy with
their quick, angular gesticulation.

"When?" he asked. "When will you do that?"

"Now," she answered instantly. "Now!--Now!--Oh, don't look surprised.
I've thought of this possibility. My God!" she said with a bitterness
that startled him. "I've thought of every possibility, every possible
crook and quirk of this business."

She was struck by his slowness in responding to her offer.

"But you," she asked; "are you sure--have you the proof?"

"Thanks," he said drily. Whose name is on yon lettered stone? whose ashes
rest beneath?

That thus you come with flowers to deck the mournful home of death;
And thou--why darkens so thy brow with grief's untimely gloom?

Thou art fitter for a bride than for a watcher by the tomb!
It's not necessary."

"No; it isn't," she agreed, with perfect indifference. "And it's spent."

When he had telephoned to Sloanehurst and the sheriff's office, he found
her with her hat on, ready to accompany him.

As they stepped out of the Walman, she saw the automobile waiting for
them. She stopped, a new rage darting from her eyes. He thought she
would go back. After a brief hesitation, however, she gave a short, ugly
laugh.

"You were as sure as that, were you!" she belittled herself. "Had the
car wait--to take me there!"

"By no means," he denied. "I hoped you'd go--that's all."

"That's better," she said, determined to assert her individuality of
action. "You're not forcing me into this, you know. I'm doing it, after
thinking it out to the last detail--for my own satisfaction."


XX

DENIAL OF THE CHARGE


Hastings, fully appreciating the value of surprise, had instructed Mrs.
Brace to communicate none of the new developments to anybody until he
asked for them. Reaching Sloanehurst, he went alone to the library,
leaving her in the parlour to battle as best she might with the
sheriff's anxious curiosity.

Arthur Sloane and Judge Wilton gave him cool welcome, parading for his
benefit an obvious and insolent boredom. Although uninvited to sit down,
he caught up a chair and swung it lightly into such position that, when
he seated himself, he faced them across the table. He was smiling,
enough to indicate a general satisfaction with the world.

There was in his bearing, however, that which carried them back to their
midnight session with him immediately following the discovery of Mildred
Brace's body. The smile did not lessen his look of unquestionable power;
his words were sharp, clipped-off.

"I take it," he said briskly, untouched by their demeanour of
indifference, "you gentlemen will be interested in the fact that I've
cleared up this mystery."

"Ah-h-h!" drawled Sloane. "Again?"

"What do you mean by 'again'?" he asked, good-naturedly.

"Crown, the sheriff, accomplished it four days ago, I'm credibly
informed."

"He made a mistake."

"Ah?" Sloane ridiculed.

"Yes. 'Ah!'" Hastings took him up curtly, and, with a quick turn of his
head, addressed himself to Wilton: "Judge, I've been to Pursuit."

They had no money, but traded by barter of commodities; very little
personal property, and scarcely anything of value to Europeans.

They were still a breech-cloth people, wearing this rag of barbarism
as the unmistakable evidence of their condition; and the family was
in the syndyasmian or pairing form, with separation at any moment
at the option of either party.

It was the weakness of the family, its inability to face alone the struggle
of life, which led to the construction of joint-tenement houses
throughout North and South America by the Indian tribes; and it was
the gentile organization which led them to fill these houses, on the
principle of kin, with related families.

In a pueblo as large as that of Mexico, which was the largest found
in America, and may possibly have contained thirty thousand
inhabitants, there must have been a number of large communal houses
of different sizes, from those that were called palaces, because
of their size, to those filled by a few families.

Degrees of prosperity are shown in barbarous as well as in civilized life
in the quarters of the people. Herrera states that the houses of
the poorer sort of people were "small, low, and mean," but that,
"as small as the houses were, they commonly contained two, four,
and six families."

[Footnote: History of America, ii, 360.]
Wherever a household is found in Indian life, be the married pairs
composing it few or many, that household practiced communism in
living.

In the largest of these houses it would not follow necessarily that
all its inmates lived from common stores, because they might form
several household groups in the same house; but in the large household
of which Montezuma was a member, it is plain that it was fed from
common stores prepared in a common cook-house, and divided from the
kettle, in earthen bowls, each containing the dinner of a single
person.

Montezuma was supposed to be absolute master of Mexico, and what
they saw at this dinner was interpreted with exclusive reference
to him as the central figure.

The result is remarkably grotesque.

It was their own self-deception, without any assistance from the
Aztecs.

The accounts given by Diaz and Cortes, and which subsequent writers
have built upon with glowing enthusiasm and free additions, is simply
the gossip of a camp of soldiers suddenly cast into an earlier
form of society, which the Village Indians of America, of all
mankind, then best represented.

That they could understand it was not to have been expected.

Accustomed to monarchy and to privileged classes, the principal Aztec
war-chief seemed to them quite naturally a king, and sachems and chiefs
followed in their vision as princes and lords. But that they should
have remained in history as such for three centuries is an amusing
commentary upon the value of historical writings in general.

The dinner of Montezuma, witnessed within the five days named by the
Spanish soldiers, comes down to us with a slender proportion of
reliable facts.

The accounts of Bernal Diaz and of Cortes form the basis of all subsequent
descriptions [Footnote: The Anonymous Conqueror does not notice
it.].

Montezuma was the central figure around whom all the others are made to
move.

A number of men, as Diaz states, were to be seen in the house and in the
courts, going to and fro; a part of whom were thought to be chiefs in
attendance upon Montezuma, and the remainder were supposed to be
guards. Better proof of the use of guards is needed than the suggestion
of Diaz. It implies a knowledge of military discipline unknown by Indian
tribes.

It was noticed that Indians went barefooted into the presence of
Montezuma, which was interpreted as an act of servility and deference,
although bare feet must have been the rule rather than the exception
in Tenochtitlan. Diaz further informs us that "his cooks had upwards
of thirty different ways of dressing meats, and they had earthen
vessels so contrived as to keep them always hot.

For the table of Montezuma himself above three hundred dishes were dressed,
and for his guards above a thousand. Before dinner Montezuma would go
out and inspect the preparations, and his officers would point out
to him which were the best, and explain of what birds and flesh they
were composed, and of these he would eat.... Montezuma was seated on a
low throne or chair at a table proportionate to the height of his
seat.

He had, perhaps, decided that explanation was
too difficult.

Seeing his indecision, Hastings turned on Sloane.

"You've been exceedingly offensive to me on several occasions, Mr.
Sloane. And I've had enough of it. Now, I've got the facts to show that
you're as foolish in the selection of your friends as in making enemies.
I'm about to charge this man Wilton with murder. He killed Mildred
Brace, and I can prove it. If you want to hear the facts back of this
mystery; if you want the stuff that will enable you to decide whether
you'll stand by him or against him, you can have it!"

Before Sloane could recover from his surprise at the old man's hot
resentment, Wilton said, with an air of careless contempt:

"Oh, we've got to deal with what he says, Arthur. I'd rather answer it
here than with an audience."

"The reading public, for instance?" Hastings retorted, and added: "It
may interest you, Mr. Sloane, to know that you gave me my first
suspicion of him. When you stepped back from the handkerchief I held out
to you--remember, as I was kneeling over the body, and the servant
laughed at you?--I jammed it into Wilton's right-hand coat-pocket.

"Later, when I got it back from him, I saw clinging to it a few cigar
ashes and two small particles of wet tobacco. He had had in that pocket
a cigar stump wet from his saliva.

"When he began then his story of finding the body, he said, 'I'd been
smoking my good-night cigar; this is what's left of it.' As he said
that, he pointed to the unlit--remember that, unlit--cigar stump between
his teeth. He made it a point to emphasize the fact that so little time
had elapsed between his finding the body and his giving the alarm that
he hadn't smoked up the cigar, and also he hadn't taken time to put his
hand to his mouth, take out the cigar and throw it away.

"It was one of the over-fine little touches that a guilty man tries to
pile on his scheme for appearing innocent. But what are the facts?

"Just now, as soon as he got excited, he mechanically fubbed out his
cigar. It's a habit of his--whenever he's in a close corner. He did it
during the interview I had with him and Webster in the music room last
Sunday morning--when, in fact, something dangerous to him came up. He
did it again when I was talking to him in his office, following a visit
from Mrs. Brace.

"There you have the beginning of my suspicion. Why had he gone out of
his way to put a cigar stump into his pocket that night, and to explain
that he had had it in his mouth all the time? When he came into my room,
to wake me up, he had no cigar in his mouth. But, when you and I rounded
the corner of the porch and first saw him kneeling over the body, he had
one hand in his right-hand coat-pocket. And, when we stood beside him,
he had put a half-smoked, unlit cigar into his mouth.

"You see my point, clearly? Instead of having had the cigar in his mouth
and having kept it there while he found the body and reported the
discovery to us, the truth is this: he had fubbed out the cigar when he
met Mildred Brace on the lawn, and it had occurred to his calculating
mind that it would be well, when he chose to give the alarm, to use the
cigar stunt as evidence that he hadn't been engaged in quarrelling with
and murdering a woman.

"He was right in his opinion that the average man doesn't go on calmly
smoking while engaged in such activities. He was wrong in letting us
discover where he'd carried the stump until he needed it.

"He had put it into that pocket, but, after committing the murder, he
wasn't quite as calm as he'd expected to be--something had gone wrong;
Webster had appeared on the scene--and the cigar wasn't restored to his
mouth until you and I first reached the body.

"Here's my handkerchief, showing the ashes and the pieces of cigar
tobacco on it, just as it was when he handed it back to me."

He took from one of his pockets a tissue-paper parcel, and, unwrapping
it, handed it to Sloane.

"Ah-h-h-that's what it shows," Sloane admitted, bending over the
handkerchief.

Wilton welcomed that with a laugh which he meant to be lightly
contemptuous.

"See here, Arthur!" he objected. "I'm perfectly willing to listen to any
sane statement this man may make, but----"

"You said you wanted to hear this!" Hasting stopped him. "I'm fair about
it. I've told you why I began to watch you. I've got more."

"You need it," Sloane complained. "If it's all that thin----"

"Don't shout too soon," Hastings interrupted again. "Mr. Sloane, this
man's been working against me from the start. Think a moment, and you'll
realize it. While he was telling your daughter and a whole lot of other
people that I was the only man to handle the case, he was slipping you
the quiet instruction to avoid me, not to confide in me, not to tell me
a single thing. Isn't that true?"

"We-ell, he did say the best way for me to avoid all possibility of
being involved in the thing was not to talk to anybody."

"I knew it!" Hastings declared, giving his contempt full play. "And he
persuaded you that you might have seen--_might_, mind you--and he gave
you the suggestion skilfully, more by indirection than by flat
statement--that you might have seen Berne Webster out there on the lawn
that night, when you were uncertain, when you feared it yourself--a
little. Isn't that true?"

Sloane looked at him with widening eyes, his lips trembling.

"Come, Mr. Sloane! Let's play fair, didn't he?"

"We-ell, yes."

"And," Hastings continued, thumping the table with a heavy hand to drive
home the points of his statement, "he persuaded you to offer that money
to Mrs. Brace--last Tuesday night.--Didn't he?--And that matches his
slippery cunning in pretending he was saving Webster by hiding the fact
that Webster's hand had gagged him when they found the body. He figured
his willingness to help somebody else would keep suspicion away from
him. I----"

"Rot! All rot!" Wilton broke in. "Where do you think you are, Arthur, on
the witness stand? He'll have you saying white's black in a minute."

"Mr. Sloane," the detective said, getting to his feet, "he induced you
to pay money to Mrs. Brace--while it's the colour of blackmail, it won't
be a matter for prosecution; you gave it to her, in a sense,
unsolicited--but he induced you to do that because he knew she was out
for blackmail. He hoped that, if you bought her off, she wouldn't pursue
him farther."

"Farther!" echoed Sloane. "What do you mean by that?"

"Why, man! Don't you see? Money was back of all that tragedy. He
murdered the girl because she had come here to renew her mother's
attempts at blackmail on him! Not content with duping you, with handling
you as if you'd been a baby, he put you up to buying off the woman who
was after him--and he did it by fooling you into thinking that you were
saving the name, if not the very life, of your daughter's fiancé!
He----"

"Lies! Wild lie!" thundered Wilton, pushing back from the table. "I'm
through with----"

"No! No!" shrilled Sloane. "Wait! Prove that, Hastings! Prove it--if you
can! Shuddering saints! Have I----?"

He looked once at Wilton's contorted face, and recoiled, the movement
confessing at last his lack of faith in the man.

"I will," Hastings answered him, and moved toward the door; "I'll prove
it--by the girl's mother."

He threw open the door, and, sure now of holding Sloane's attention,
went in search of Mrs. Brace and the sheriff.


XXI

"AMPLE EVIDENCE"


The two men in the library waited a long time for his return. Wilton,
elbows on the table, stared straight in front of him, giving no sign of
knowledge of the other's presence. Sloane fidgeted with the
smelling-salts, emitting now and then long-drawn, tremulous sighs that
were his own special vocabulary of dissatisfaction. He spoke once.

"Mute and cringing martyrs!" he said, in suspicious remonstrance. "If
he'd say something we could deny! So far, Tom, you're mixed up in----"

"Why can't you wait until he's through?" Wilton objected roughly.

They heard people coming down the hall. Lucille, following Mrs. Brace
into the room, went to her father. They could see, from her look of
grieved wonder, that Hastings had told her of the charge against Wilton.
The sheriff's expression confirmed the supposition. His mouth hung open,
so that the unsteady fingers with which he plucked at his knuckle like
chin appeared also to support his fallen jaw. He made a weak-kneed
progress from the door to a chair near the screened fireplace.

For a full half-minute Hastings was silent, as if to let the doubts and
suspense of each member of the group emphasize his dominance of the
situation. He reviewed swiftly some of the little things he had used to
build up in his own mind the certainty of Wilton's guilt: the man's
agitation in the music room at the discovery, not that a part of the
grey envelope had been found, but that it contained some of the words of
the letter--his obvious alarm when found quarrelling with Mrs. Brace in
his office--his hardly controlled impulses: once, outside Sloane's
bedroom, to accuse Berne Webster without proof, and, on the Sloanehurst
porch last Sunday, to suggest that Sloane was guilty.

The detective observed now that he absolutely ignored Mrs. Brace, not
even looking in her direction. He perceived also how she reacted to that
assumed indifference. The tightening of her lips, the flutter of her
mobile nostrils, left him no longer any doubt that she was in the mood
to give him the cooperation she had so bitterly promised.

"To be dragged down by such a woman!" he thought.

"Mrs. Brace," he said, "I've charged Judge Wilton with the murder of
your daughter. I say now he killed her, with premeditation, having
planned it after receiving a letter from her."

"Yes?" she responded, a certain tenseness in her voice.

She had gone to a chair by the window; and, like the sheriff, she faced
the trio at the table: Wilton, Sloane, and Lucille, who stood behind her
father, a hand on his shoulder.

Hastings slowly paced the floor as he talked, his hands clasped behind
him and now and then moving the tail of his coat up and down. He glanced
at Mrs. Brace over the rims of his spectacles, his eyes shrewd and keen.
He showed an unmistakable self-satisfaction, like the elation Wilton had
detected in his bearing on two former occasions.

"Now," he asked her, "what can you tell us about that letter?"

Wilton, his chest pressed so hard against the edge of the table that his
breathing moved his body, turned his swollen face upon her at last, his
eyes flaming under the thatch of his down-drawn brows.

Mrs. Brace, her high-shouldered, lean frame silhouetted against the
window, began, in a colourless, unemotioned tone:

"As you know, Mr. Hastings, I thought this man Wilton owed me money,
more than money. I'd looked for him for twenty-six years. Less than a
year ago I located him here in Virginia, and I came to Washington. He
refused my requests. Then, he stopped reading my letters--sent them back
unopened at first; later, he destroyed them unread, I suppose."

She cleared her throat lightly, and spoke more rapidly. The intensity of
her hate, in spite of her power of suppression, held them in a
disagreeable fascination.

"I was afraid of him, afraid to confront him alone. I'd seen him kill a
man. But I was in desperate need. I thought, if my daughter could talk
to him, he would be brought to do the right thing. I suppose," she said
with a wintry smile, "you'd call it an attempt to blackmail--if he had
let it go far enough.

"She wrote him a letter, on grey paper, and sent it, in an oblong, grey
envelope, to him here at Sloanehurst last Friday night. He got it
Saturday afternoon. If he hadn't received it, he'd never have been out
on the lawn--with a dagger he'd made for the occasion--at eleven or
eleven-fifteen, which was the time Mildred said in her letter she'd see
him there. She had added that, if he did not keep the appointment, she'd
expose him--his crime in Pursuit."

"Would it were worthier." While our soldiers are first in every field
where they meet our enemies, and while the wisdom of our legislators
is justified before all the world, in the perfection of our beloved
institutions, our literature languishes.

This should not be so; for literature, with its kindred arts,
makes the true glory of a nation.

We bow in spirit when Greece is named, not alone because she was the
mother of heroes and lawgivers, but because her hand rocked the
cradle of a literature as enduring as it is beautiful and brilliant,
and cherished in their infancy those arts which eventually repaid
her nursing care in a rich harvest of immortal renown.

For myself I have little to say.
He said I could look at it as a warning that----"

"Wait!"

The interruption came from Wilton.

"I'm going to make a statement about this thing!" he ground out, his
voice coarse and rasping.

Hastings hung upon him with relentless gaze.

"What have you got to say?"

"Much!" returned Wilton. "I'm not going to let myself be ruined on this
charge because of a mistake of my youth--mistake, I say! I'm about to
tell you the story of such suffering, such misfortune, as no man has
ever had to endure. It explains that tragedy in Pursuit; it explains my
life; it explains everything. I didn't murder that boy Dalton. I struck
in self-defence. But the twenty-nine wounds on his body----"

He paused, preoccupied; he was thinking less of his hearers than of
himself. It was at that point, Hastings thought afterwards, that he
began to lose himself in the ugly enjoyment of describing his cruelty.
It was as if the horrors to which he gave voice subjected him to a
specious and irresistible charm, equipped him with a spurious courage, a
sincere indifference to common opinion.

"There is," he said, "a shadow on my soul. My greatest enemy is hidden
in my own mind.

"But I've fought it, fought it all my life. You may say the makeshifts
I've adopted, the strategy of my resistance, my tactics to outwit this
thing, do me little credit. I shall leave it to you to decide. Results
speak for themselves. I have broken no law; there is against me nothing
that would bring upon me the penalty of man's laws."

He wedged himself more closely against the edge of the table, and struck
his left palm with his clenched right hand.

"I tell you, Hastings, to have fought this thing, in whatever way, has
been a task that called for every ounce of strength I had. I've lived in
hell and walked with devils, against my will. Not a day, not a night,
have I been free of this curse, or my fear of it. There have been times
when, every night for months, my slumbers were broken or impossible! And
after he was gone she was very soon in bed and asleep, and dreaming of
her unknown Prince. She thought he came and said to her:

"Ah, Beauty! why are you so unkind to me? I fear I am fated to be
unhappy for many a long day still."But no matter----

"You've heard of obsessions--of men seized every six months with an
irresistible desire to drink--of kleptomaniacs who, having all they need
or wish, must steal or go mad--of others driven by inexplicable impulse,
mania, to set fire to buildings, for the thrill they get out of seeing
the flames burst forth. Well, from my earliest childhood until that
moment when Roy Dalton attacked me, I had fought an impulse even more
terrible than those. God, what a tyranny! It drove me, drove me, that
obsession, at times amounting to mental compulsion, to strike, to stab,
to make the blood flow!"

He rose, getting to his feet slowly, so that his burly bulk gained in
size, like the slow upheaval of a hillside. Swollen as his face had
been, it expanded now a trifle more. His nostrils coarsened more
perceptibly. The puffiness that had been in the back of his neck
extended entirely around his throat. He hung forward over the table,
giving all his attention to Hastings, who was unmoved, incredulous.

"The Brace woman will tell you I had to kill him," he proceeded more
swiftly, displaying a questionable ardour, like a man foreseeing defeat.
"The mistake I made was in running away--a bitter mistake! But those
unnecessary wounds, twenty-eight that need not have been made! The
obsession to see the blood flow drove me to acts which a jury, I
thought, would not understand. And, if you don't see the force of my
explanation, Hastings, if you don't understand, I shall be in little
better plight--after all these years!"

He put, there, a sorrowful appeal into his voice; but a sly
contradiction of it showed faintly in his face, a hint that he took a
crafty pleasure in dragging into the light the depravity he had kept in
darkness for a lifetime.

"I got away. I drifted to Virginia, working hard, studying much. I
became a lawyer. But always I had that affliction to combat; all my
life, man!--always! There were periods months long when devils came up
from the ugly corners of my soul to torture and tempt me.

"It wasn't the ordinary temptation, not a weak, pale idea of 'I'd like
to kill and see the blood!'--but an uproar, an imperial voice, an
endless command: 'Kill! Draw blood! Kill!'--What it did to me----

"But to this day I've beaten it! I've been a good citizen. I've observed
the law. I've refused to let that involuntary lust for blood ruin me or
cast me out.

"Let me tell you how. I decided that, if I had a hand in awarding just
punishments, my affliction would be abated enough for me to live in some
measure of security. There you have the explanation of my being on the
bench. I cheated the obsession to murder by helping to imprison or
execute those who did murder!

"That's why I can tell you of my innocence of the Brace murder. Do you
think I'd tell it unless I knew there could be not even an excuse for
suspecting me? On the other hand, if I had kept silent as to the true
motive that drove my hand to those unnecessary mutilations of young
Dalton--the only time, remember, that my weakness ever got the better,
or the worse, of me!--if I had kept silent on that, you would have had
ground for suspecting me of a barbarous murder then, and, arguing from
that, of the Brace murder now.

"Do I make myself clear?--Do you want me to go into further detail?"

He sank slowly back to his chair, spent by the strain of supreme effort.
His breathing was laboured, stertorous.

"That, Crown," Hastings denounced, "is a confession! Knowing he's
caught, he's got the insolence to whine for mercy because of his
'sufferings'! Think of it! The thing of which he boasts is the thing for
which he deserves death--since death is supposed to be the supreme
punishment. He tells us, in self-congratulatory terms, that he curbed
his inhuman longings, satisfied his lust for blood, by going on the
bench and helping to 'punish those who did murder!'

To cut the timber without metallic implements, and to transport it without
animal power, indicate a degree of persevering industry highly creditable
to a people who, at this stage of progress, are averse to labor on the
part of the males. Habitual male industry makes its first appearance
in the next or the Middle Status of barbarism. The men here did
the heavy work.

In the spaces between the lodges were their drying-scaffolds (Fig. 20),
one for each lodge, which were nearly as conspicuous in the
distance as the houses themselves. They were about twenty feet long,
twelve feet wide, and seven feet high to the flooring, made of posts
set upright, with cross-pieces resting in forks.

Other poles were then placed longitudinally, upon which was a flooring
of willow mats.

These scaffolds, mounted with ladders (Fig. 21), were used for drying
their skins, and also their maize, meat, and vegetables.

[Illustration: Fig. 20.--Drying scaffold.]
[Illustration: Fig. 21.--Mandan ladder.]
The Indians knew the use of the ladder, and some of them made an
excellent article before the discovery of America.

When Coronado visited and captured the seven so-called cities of Cibola
in 1540-1542, he found the people living in seven or eight large
joint-tenement houses, each capable of holding about a thousand
persons.

These houses were without entrances from the ground, but they mounted
to the first terrace by means of ladders, and so to each successive
story above.

"The ladders which they have for their houses," Coronado says in his
relation, "are all in a manner movable and portable as ours be." [Footnote:
Hakluyt, Coll. of Voyages, London ed., 1812, vol. 5, p. 498.]
He took a nail-file from
Webster's dressing case, and in Webster's room put a sharper point on it
by filing it roughly with the file-blade of his own pen knife.

"That's doubly proved: first, my magnet, with which I went over the
floor in Webster's room, picked up small particles of steel. Here they
are."

He produced a small packet and, without unwrapping it, handed it to
Crown.

"Again: you'll find that the file-blade of his knife retained particles
of the steel in the little furrows of its corrugated surface. I know,
because last Sunday, as your car came up the driveway, I borrowed his
knife, on the pretext of tightening a screw in the blade of mine. And I
examined it."

He put up a silencing hand as Wilton forced a jeering laugh.

"But there's more to prove his manufacture and ownership of the weapon
that killed the woman. He made the handle from the end of a slat on the
bed in the room which I occupied that night. The inference is obvious:
he didn't care to risk going outside the house to hunt for the wood he
needed; he wouldn't take it from an easily visible place; and, having
stolen something from one room, he paid his attention to mine. All this
is the supercaution of the so-called 'smart criminal.' It matches the
risk he took in returning to the body to hunt for the weapon. That was
why he was there when Webster found the body.

"The handle of the dagger matches the wood of the slat I've just
mentioned. You won't find that particular slat upstairs now. It was
taken out of the house the next day, broken into sections and packed in
his bag of golf-sticks. But there is proof in this room of the fact that
he and he only made the dagger.

"You'll find in the edge of the large blade of his penknife a nick,
triangular in shape, which left an unmistakable groove in the wood every
time he cut into it. That little groove shows, to the naked eye, on the
end of the shortened slat and on the handle of the dagger. "Their extreme
exclusiveness has preserved to the Zunyians their strong individuality,
and kept their language pure.

According to Major Powell's classification, their speech forms one
of four linguistic stocks to which may be traced all the pueblo
dialects of the southwest.

In all the large area which was once thickly dotted with settlements, only
thirty-one remain, and these are scattered hundreds of miles apart
from Taos, in Northern New Mexico to Islet, in Western Texas.

Hastings straightened to his full stature, and looked toward Wilton.

"Now, Judge Wilton," he challenged, "you said you preferred to answer
the accusation here and now. Do you, still?"

Wilton, slowly raising the heavy lids of his eyes, like a man coming out
of a trance, presented to him and to the others a face which, in spite
of its flushed and swollen aspect, looked singularly bleak.

"It's not an accusation," he said in his roughened, grating voice. "It's
a network of suppositions, of theories, of impossibilities--a crazy
structure, all built on the rotten foundation of a previous misfortune."

"Arrest him, Crown!" Hastings commanded sharply.

Wilton tried to laugh, but his heavy lips merely worked in a crazy
barrenness of sound. With a vague, clumsy idea of covering up his
confusion, he started to light a cigar.

He stopped, hands in mid-air, when Crown, shambling to his feet, said:

"Judge, I've got to act. He's proved his case."

"Proved it!" Wilton made weak protest.

"If he hasn't, let's see your penknife."

Wilton put his hand into his trousers pocket, began the motion that
would have drawn out the knife, checked it, and withdrew his hand empty.
He managed a mirthless, dreary laugh, a rattling sound that fell, dead
of any feeling, from his grimacing lips.

"No, by God!" he refused. "I'll give it to neither of you. I don't have
to!"

In that moment, he fell to pieces. With his thick shoulders dropping
forward, he became an inert mass bundled against the table edge. The
blood went out of his face, so that his cheeks hollowed, and shadows
formed under his eyes. He was like the victim of a quick consumption.

Crown's eyes were on Hastings.

"That's enough," the old man said shortly.

"Too much," agreed Crown. "Judge, there's no bail--on a murder charge."

"I'm very glad," Mrs. Brace commented, a terrible satisfaction in her
voice. "He pays me--at last."


In the music room Dr. Are you not leaving me to my death perhaps?"

"Ah! don't be so sorrowful," cried Beauty; "I am only going to assure
my father that I am safe and happy. I have promised the Beast faithfully
that I will come back, and he would die of grief if I did not keep
my word!""I think," the doctor gave his opinion with exaggerated deliberation,
"it might--in fact, it really will be his best medicine."

She thanked him, stars swimming in her eyes.