Produced by John Bean


WHEN THE SLEEPER WAKES

By Herbert George Wells


CHAPTER I. INSOMNIA

One afternoon, at low water, Mr. Isbister, a young artist lodging at
Boscastle, walked from that place to the picturesque cove of Pentargen,
desiring to examine the caves there. Halfway down the precipitous
path to the Pentargen beach he came suddenly upon a man sitting in an
attitude of profound distress beneath a projecting mass of rock. The
hands of this man hung limply over his knees, his eyes were red and
staring before him, and his face was wet with tears.

He glanced round at Isbister's footfall. Both men were disconcerted,
Isbister the more so, and, to override the awkwardness of his
involuntary pause, he remarked, with an air of mature conviction, that
the weather was hot for the time of year.

"Very," answered the stranger shortly, hesitated a second, and added in
a colourless tone, "I can't sleep."

Isbister stopped abruptly. "No?" was all he said, but his bearing
conveyed his helpful impulse.

"It may sound incredible," said the stranger, turning weary eyes to
Isbister's face and emphasizing his words with a languid hand, "but I
have had no sleep--no sleep at all for six nights."

"Had advice?"

"Yes. Bad advice for the most part. Drugs. My nervous system.... They
are all very well for the run of people. It's hard to explain. I dare
not take... sufficiently powerful drugs."

"That makes it difficult," said Isbister.

He stood helplessly in the narrow path, perplexed what to do. Clearly
the man wanted to talk. An idea natural enough under the circumstances,
prompted him to keep the conversation going. "I've never suffered from
sleeplessness myself," he said in a tone of commonplace gossip, "but in
those cases I have known, people have usually found something--"

"I dare make no experiments."

He spoke wearily. He gave a gesture of rejection, and for a space both
men were silent.

"Exercise?" suggested Isbister diffidently, with a glance from his
interlocutor's face of wretchedness to the touring costume he wore.

"That is what I have tried. Unwisely perhaps. I have followed the coast,
day after day--from New Quay. It has only added muscular fatigue to
the mental. The cause of this unrest was overwork--trouble. There was
something--"

He stopped as if from sheer fatigue. He rubbed his forehead with a lean
hand. He resumed speech like one who talks to himself.

"I am a lone wolf, a solitary man, wandering through a world in which
I have no part. I am wifeless--childless--who is it speaks of the
childless as the dead twigs on the tree of life? I am wifeless, I
childless--I could find no duty to do. No desire even in my heart. One
thing at last I set myself to do.

"I said, I will do this, and to do it, to overcome the inertia of this
dull body, I resorted to drugs. Great God, I've had enough of drugs!
I don't know if _you_ feel the heavy inconvenience of the body, its
exasperating demand of time from the mind--time--life! Live! We only
live in patches. We have to eat, and then comes the dull digestive
complacencies--or irritations. We have to take the air or else our
thoughts grow sluggish, stupid, run into gulfs and blind alleys. A
thousand distractions arise from within and without, and then comes
drowsiness and sleep. Men seem to live for sleep. How little of a man's
day is his own--even at the best! And then come those false friends,
those Thug helpers, the alkaloids that stifle natural fatigue and kill
rest--black coffee, cocaine--"

"I see," said Isbister.

"I did my work," said the sleepless man with a querulous intonation.

"And this is the price?"

"Yes."

For a little while the two remained without speaking.

"You cannot imagine the craving for rest that I feel--a hunger and
thirst. For six long days, since my work was done, my mind has been a
whirlpool, swift, unprogressive and incessant, a torrent of thoughts
leading nowhere, spinning round swift and steady--"

He paused. "Towards the gulf."

"You must sleep," said Isbister decisively, and with an air of a remedy
discovered. "Certainly you must sleep."

"My mind is perfectly lucid. It was never clearer. But I know I am
drawing towards the vortex. Presently--"

"Yes?"

"You have seen things go down an eddy? Out of the light of the day, out
of this sweet world of sanity--down--"

"But," expostulated Isbister.

The man threw out a hand towards him, and his eyes were wild, and his
voice suddenly high. "I shall kill myself. If in no other way--at the
foot of yonder dark precipice there, where the waves are green, and the
white surge lifts and falls, and that little thread of water trembles
down. There at any rate is ... sleep."

"That's unreasonable," said Isbister, startled at the man's hysterical
gust of emotion. "Drugs are better than that."

"There at any rate is sleep," repeated the stranger, not heeding him.

Isbister looked at him and wondered transitorily if some complex
Providence had indeed brought them together that afternoon. "It's not
a cert, you know," he remarked. "There's a cliff like that at Lulworth
Cove--as high, anyhow--and a little girl fell from top to bottom. And
lives to-day--sound and well."

"But those rocks there?"

"One might lie on them rather dismally through a cold night, broken
bones grating as one shivered, chill water splashing over you. Eh?"

Their eyes met. "Sorry to upset your ideals," said Isbister with a sense
of devil-may-careish brilliance.

"But a suicide over that cliff (or any cliff for the matter of that),
really, as an artist--" He laughed. - Ah - Teresa exclaimed with fierce joy, and pressed a little step
without saying word, fearing no doubt that the son tried to obstruct
the project that was suddenly born in his imagination.

Jose followed with a heart distressed, without daring to say anything.
However, after they had walked a few steps, the fear was more
violent and shocking scenes that filial respect, and ventured to
say severely: - Mother, please, for God, not to commit or commit.

But Teresa continued to walk without answering, as if to avoid
arguments.

A little further, turned to say even more severe: - Look what they
are going to do, mother!

"The same silence from Teresa. In this [93.1] had already approached
the iban and those that came from rocks. When you were a stone's throw
away, soon, the sign Isabel stopped the pass and hesitated a moment
between continuing or backward, because there was nothing peaceful
resolution warned that Teresa was walking towards her.

Finally adopted the average stand still.

Teresa moved quickly towards her, but at a distance of twenty or
thirty steps, was stopped, and putting their hands in jars, he began
to ask your enemy in the sarcastic tone that he could always take anger:
-- Hey, lady! ... V. How are you, lady ... Is V. good ... The husband
also good ... For some time did not like to see it ... - Joseph, be
careful with your mother, you're crazy!

- Cried Elizabeth with the sign face demudado. - Oh, lady! So, after
having thrown and have to beg him laughed, asks V. yet that assist them
- and suddenly changing the ironic expression on his face the other
angry and fierce, saved as a tigre the distance that separated them
from their enemies, and was thrown over her, shouting: - You have
me crazy , knave!

... But now I am going to pay them all! [94.1] The battle was so furious
and repulsive.

The widow, the stronger and more nervous, then got thrown to the
ground to mark Isabel, but it appeals to all means of defense, tore his
earrings enemy rajándole ears and making them bleed copiously.

José de one from the other side and Elisa were rushed to separate their
mothers, and they struggled in vain for it. Elisa had her face bathed
in tears, Jose was pale and shaken. Their hands on one of the sets of
fatigues, [94.2] was found by chance and by a simultaneous movement,
both raised their heads, looked lovingly and tenderly close. At last
Joseph, taking his mother through the body, lifted into the air and
was depositing a few steps away: Elisa helped him get up to yours.

Both failed to follow his path. Mothers iban ahead endlessly
muttering insults: the children often returned to the head to look,
until they lost sight of entirely. X Don Fernando, the big house Meira,
walked one night, two months after the event just refer, for the
vast hall of the feudal manor.

Someone had thrown at least one instant artistic bronze lamp, in keeping
with the majestic scale of the block, or primarily of silver candlesticks
from a more recent period because the surface was not flat, smooth
and widespread as in previous centuries , offered some holes here and
there, but it worked by the plant of noble lords Meira, and in this case
very worthy of veneration, not without being declared enemies of the
integrity and health of all legs, so that nobles commoners. But D.
Fernando knew very well, and without avoiding them, walking with
a quick step after another to stay in the midst of darkness.

His steps rumbled deep holes in the ancient mansion, but the mice,
used since ancient [95.1] to listen, did not show any fear and
persisted in his work quietly devastating, breaking the silence of
the night with a slight and continuous crugido, bats, with even
less fear, flying in great dance on the head of the deaf old man
afraid and hum.

At that time, D. Fernando had been metamorphosed readily in mice, and
perhaps ever, [95.2] at bat.

It was very sad that gnaw on wood buried in a gloomy hole, or lie dormant
during the day on the ledge of a door, only to fly into the dismal
night, it was less, perchance, be deprived of out the sunlight and walk
outdoors after the sweetness of knowing each other?
It goes round. Spin, it goes--spin--"

He stumbled at the doorstep and entered the room with the bearing of one
who sees nothing.

Then he sat down abruptly and heavily in the easy chair, seemed almost
to fall into it. He leant forward with his brows on his hands and became
motionless.

Presently he made a faint sound in his throat. Isbister moved about
the room with the nervousness of an inexperienced host, making little
remarks that scarcely required answering. He crossed the room to his
portfolio, placed it on the table and noticed the mantel clock.

"I don't know if you'd care to have supper with me," he said with an
unlighted cigarette in his hand--his mind troubled with a design of
the furtive administration of chloral. "Only cold mutton, you know, but
passing sweet. Welsh. And a tart, I believe." He repeated this after
momentary silence.

The seated man made no answer. Isbister stopped, match in hand,
regarding him.

The stillness lengthened. The match went out, the cigarette was put down
unlit. The man was certainly very still. Isbister took up the portfolio,
opened it, put it down, hesitated, seemed about to speak. "Perhaps," he
whispered doubtfully. Presently he glanced at the door and back to
the figure. Then he stole on tiptoe out of the room, glancing at his
companion after each elaborate pace.

He closed the door noiselessly. The house door was standing open, and
he went out beyond the porch, and stood where the monkshood rose at
the corner of the garden bed. From this point he could see the stranger
through the open window, still and dim, sitting head on hand. He had not
moved.

A number of children going along the road stopped and regarded the
artist curiously. A boatman exchanged civilities with him. He felt
that possibly his circumspect attitude and position seemed peculiar and
unaccountable. Smoking, perhaps, might seem more natural. He drew pipe
and pouch from his pocket, filled the pipe slowly.

"I wonder,"... he said, with a scarcely perceptible loss of complacency.
"At any rate we must give him a chance." He struck a match in the virile
way, and proceeded to light his pipe.

Presently he heard his landlady behind him, coming with his lamp lit
from the kitchen. Balthasar. I want to go, Gracious Lord, and you do
not disturb. Romeo. Kanst So you show me your friends - Take
you; leb and sey glüklich, fahrwohl, good boy. Balthasar (leaving
in front of you.) All this is me a more stronger motivation for me around
here to hide. I fear his Blik, and doubt that he was in good sense.
Romeo.

Schlund you vile, accursed mouth of death, the most precious of what
the world had swallowed, so I Zwing your rotten Kinnbaken to öfnen, (he
breaks at the tomb) to thee with violence with even more dining
vollzustopfen. Paris (comes out.) Diss is banished übermüthige Montague,
the lovers killed my cousin, (which by the grief she had about how to
believe that the cause of her death was), and now he is come to
some sort of vile affront to their corpses to exercise: I want him to
stop - stop with your damn job, no decent Montague: Willt your Wuthe to
extend the Todt? Verurtheilter baddie, I am thy conquer; obey, go with
me, thou must die. Romeo.

I must, in That, and that's why I came hieher - good young man,
incentives do not have a despairing man, by centrifugal Hinnen, and
let Me: Think of this, the unicellular here, and let you Schreker.

I pray thee, lad, häuffe not yet a sin on my head, driving me to
Wuthe. O go! Beyme heaven! I love thee better than myself, for I am
armed against me hieher come.

Linger not, go and say that your life of mercy a man racing to thank
habest. Paris. I despise thy pity, and arrestiere you here as a
Hochverräther.

Romeo. How do you want me with violence because irritate? Have at it
then you yourself, boy. (They fight. Paris falls.) Page. O God, they
fight, I will go and fetch the guard. Paris.
"There is
something wrong with my friend."

Then he returned to the motionless seated figure, grasped the shoulder,
shook it, and shouted. The room was flooded with yellow glare as his
astonished landlady entered with the light. His face was white as he
turned blinking towards her. "I must fetch a doctor at once," he said.
"It is either death or a fit. Is there a doctor in the village? Where is
a doctor to be found?"


CHAPTER II. THE TRANCE

The state of cataleptic rigour into which this man had fallen, lasted
for an unprecedented length of time, and then he passed slowly to the
flaccid state, to a lax attitude suggestive of profound repose. Then it
was his eyes could be closed.

He was removed from the hotel to the Boscastle surgery, and from the
surgery, after some weeks, to London. But he still resisted every
attempt at reanimation. After a time, for reasons that will appear
later, these attempts were discontinued. For a great space he lay in
that strange condition, inert and still neither dead nor living but, as
it were, suspended, hanging midway between nothingness and existence.
His was a darkness unbroken by a ray of thought or sensation, a
dreamless inanition, a vast space of peace. The tumult of his mind had
swelled and risen to an abrupt climax of silence. Where was the man?
Where is any man when insensibility takes hold of him?

"It seems only yesterday," said Isbister. "I remember it all as
though it happened yesterday--clearer perhaps, than if it had happened
yesterday."

It was the Isbister of the last chapter, but he was no longer a
young man. The hair that had been brown and a trifle in excess of the
fashionable length, was iron grey and clipped close, and the face that
had been pink and white was buff and ruddy. He had a pointed beard shot
with grey. He talked to an elderly man who wore a summer suit of drill
(the summer of that year was unusually hot). This was Warming, a London
solicitor and next of kin to Graham, the man who had fallen into the
trance. And the two men stood side by side in a room in a house in
London regarding his recumbent figure.

It was a yellow figure lying lax upon a water-bed and clad in a flowing
shirt, a figure with a shrunken face and a stubby beard, lean limbs and
lank nails, and about it was a case of thin glass. This glass seemed
to mark off the sleeper from the reality of life about him, he was a
thing apart, a strange, isolated abnormality. The two men stood close to
the glass, peering in.

"The thing gave me a shock," said Isbister "I feel a queer sort of
surprise even now when I think of his white eyes. They were white, you
know, rolled up. Coming here again brings it all back to me.

"Have you never seen him since that time?" asked Warming.

"Often wanted to come," said Isbister; "but business nowadays is too
serious a thing for much holiday keeping. I've been in America most of
the time."

"If I remember rightly," said Warming, "you were an artist?"

"Was. And then I became a married man. New newspapers of Verona - What's
Balthasar? Teach me letters from the Father? What is my mistress? Is
my father well? What makes my Juliette?

I must ask again, because if she is, so nothing is amiss. Balthasar. So
it is probably because nothing is amiss.

Your body sleeps in the funerals of the Capulets, and their immortal
lives with angels Theil. I saw them in the vault of the family, and
took it immediately to post your own report. Forgiveness, Gracious
Lord, that my service nöthigt me to give you such a nasty newspaper to
bring! Romeo. Würklich Is it so? - Sun biet 'ich euch Troz their star -
You know my apartment, go, get me Dinter and paper, and to order
post-horses - I want this night still continues.

"You came back by the trap that took me to Camelford railway station.
It was close on the Jubilee, Victoria's Jubilee, because I remember the
seats and flags in Westminster, and the row with the cabman at Chelsea."

"The Diamond Jubilee, it was," said Warming; "the second one."

"Ah, yes! At the proper Jubilee--the Fifty Year affair--I was down at
Wookey--a boy. I missed all that.... What a fuss we had with him! My
landlady wouldn't take him in, wouldn't let him stay--he looked so queer
when he was rigid. We had to carry him in a chair up to the hotel. And
the Boscastle doctor--it wasn't the present chap, but the G.P. before
him--was at him until nearly two, with, me and the landlord holding
lights and so forth."

"It was a cataleptic rigour at first, wasn't it?"

"Stiff!--wherever you bent him he stuck. You might have stood him on
his head and he'd have stopped. I never saw such stiffness. Of course
this"--he indicated the prostrate figure by a movement of his head--"is
quite different. And, of course, the little doctor--what was his name?"

"Smithers?"

"Smithers it was--was quite wrong in trying to fetch him round too soon,
according to all accounts. The things he did. Even now it makes me feel
all--ugh! Mustard, snuff, pricking. And one of those beastly little
things, not dynamos--"

"Induction coils."

"Yes. You could see his muscles throb and jump, and he twisted about.
There was just two flaring yellow candles, and all the shadows were
shivering, and the little doctor nervous and putting on side, and
him--stark and squirming in the most unnatural ways. Well, it made me
dream."

Pause.

"It's a strange state," said Warming.

"It's a sort of complete absence," said Isbister.

"Here's the body, empty. Not dead a bit, and yet not alive. It's like a
seat vacant and marked 'engaged.' No feeling, no digestion, no beating
of the heart--not a flutter. _That_ doesn't make me feel as if there was
a man present. In a sense it's more dead than death, for these doctors
tell me that even the hair has stopped growing. Now with the proper
dead, the hair will go on growing--"

"I know," said Warming, with a flash of pain in his expression.

They peered through the glass again. Graham was indeed in a strange
state, in the flaccid phase of a trance, but a trance unprecedented in
medical history. Trances had lasted for as much as a year before--but at
the end of that time it had ever been waking or a death; sometimes first
one and then the other. Isbister noted the marks the physicians had
made in injecting nourishment, for that device had been resorted to to
postpone collapse; he pointed them out to Warming, who had been trying
not to see them.

"And while he has been lying here," said Isbister, with the zest of a
life freely spent, "I have changed my plans in life; married, raised
a family, my eldest lad--I hadn't begun to think of sons then--is an
American citizen, and looking forward to leaving Harvard. There's
a touch of grey in my hair. And this man, not a day older nor wiser
(practically) than I was in my downy days. It's curious to think of."

Warming turned. "And I have grown old too. I played cricket with him
when I was still only a lad. And he looks a young man still. Yellow
perhaps. But that is a young man nevertheless."

"And there's been the War," said Isbister.

"From beginning to end."

"And these Martians."

"I've understood," said Isbister after a pause, "that he had some
moderate property of his own?"

"That is so," said Warming. He coughed primly. "As it happens--have
charge of it."

"Ah!" Isbister thought, hesitated and spoke: "No doubt--his keep here is
not expensive--no doubt it will have improved--accumulated?"

"It has. He will wake up very much better off--if he wakes--than when he
slept."

"As a business man," said Isbister, "that thought has naturally been in
my mind. I have, indeed, sometimes thought that, speaking commercially,
of course, this sleep may be a very good thing for him. That he knows
what he is about, so to speak, in being insensible so long. If he had
lived straight on--"

"I doubt if he would have premeditated as much," said Warming. On my
honor, I will: Let me this face in the vicinity IS - Mercutio's
cousin!

the noble Count Paris!

what did my servant underway by storm in my soul herumgewälzte Eight was
not what he said - däucht Mich., he told me Paris should have heurathen
Juliette. Did he not? or dreaming's just me? Or am I foolish, that I
imagine it sey so because I am so fond of him talking Juliette heard?
- O gieb me thy hand, thou that the fate of my Unglük has intertwined, I
will send you a grant-beneidenswürdiges grave -A grave?

Oh no, a glory, young man murdered because Juliette ligt here, and their
beauty meets these gray tomb with full light and glory; Todt,
volunteers here, from a buried Todt.

(He places it in the tomb.) How often is it already encountered, that the
dying shortly before her last Augenblik yet been cleaned up - O
give me such a Augenblik!

- My lover, my wife, the death of the honey of thy Athems absorbed, has
no power over your beauty had , you're not defeated, still floats
the purple flag on the beauty of your lips and cheeks, and the pale
flag of death is not yet aufgestekt - Tybalt, ligst thou here in
thy bloody corpses cloth?

O what can I learn more thun, how can I do better revenge than just
the hand that your young life has geendigt against thy murderer
to use?

Vergieb me Theurer cousin! - Oh! Juliette dearest, why are you still
so beautiful?

Should I believe the minor's death sey thee in love, and the arid
hideous monsters entertain you here in the dark to his sweetheart
to Seyn?

Fearing it would like Seyn so, I will always remain Bey thee, and from
this Augenblik this palace of the dark night never leave here, here
will I remain Bey the worms, the chamber your girls are here, I want
an everlasting peace find, if I tyrannical yoke erboßter stars
from this life-weary of meat was off - my eyes, see it at leztenmal;
umfanget they leztenmal, my arms, and her, seals, o my lips, with
the last kiss the rampant death is a prescription that never again
can be abgelößt - Diss, my love, I drink to thee!

- o honest pharmacist (he drinks the poison from) your potions Würker good
- yet this kiss. (He dies.) (brother Lawrence with a lantern, an iron
crowbar, and a Spath.) brother Lorenz. St. Franciscus Bey, stand
by me!

How often have late night at my old graves feet gestolpert! Who is here?
(Balthasar comes out.) Balthasar.

A friend who you want to know. Lorenz. Sey Heil dir! Tell me, dear
friend, what a Fakel I see there, its light so vain and worms auglosen
skulls borrow? How däucht me, it burns them in the tomb of the Capulets.
Balthasar.

Würklich It is so, holy father, and those who them is, is my Lord, one
of euern dearest friends. Lorenz. As he mentions? Balthasar. Romeo .
Lorenz. How long is he already there? Balthasar.

A full half hour. Lorenz. go with me into the tomb.

Balthasar.

I have not the heart, venerable Lord - My Lord knows nothing other
than that I'd left sey, and bedräute myself to a terrible kind,
that he would kill me if I zurükbleiben and his project would
eavesdrop.

Lorenz.
He will have much to learn, much to unlearn, when
he wakes. If ever a waking comes."

"I'd give anything to be there," said Isbister, "just to hear what he
would say to it all."

"So would I," said Warming. "Aye! so would I," with an old man's sudden
turn to self pity. "But I shall never see him wake."

He stood looking thoughtfully at the waxen figure. "He will never wake,"
he said at last. He sighed "He will never wake again."


CHAPTER III. THE AWAKENING

But Warming was wrong in that. An awakening came.

What a wonderfully complex thing! this simple seeming unity--the self!
Who can trace its reintegration as morning after morning we awaken, the
flux and confluence of its countless factors interweaving, rebuilding,
the dim first stirrings of the soul, the growth and synthesis of
the unconscious to the subconscious, the sub-conscious to dawning
consciousness, until at last we recognise ourselves again. And as it
happens to most of us after the night's sleep, so it was with Graham at
the end of his vast slumber. A dim cloud of sensation taking shape, a
cloudy dreariness, and he found himself vaguely somewhere, recumbent,
faint, but alive.

The pilgrimage towards a personal being seemed to traverse vast gulfs,
to occupy epochs. Gigantic dreams that were terrible realities at the
time, left vague perplexing memories, strange creatures, strange
scenery, as if from another planet. There was a distinct impression,
too, of a momentous conversation, of a name--he could not tell what
name--that was subsequently to recur, of some queer long-forgotten
sensation of vein and muscle, of a feeling of vast hopeless effort, the
effort of a man near drowning in darkness. Then came a panorama of
dazzling unstable confluent scenes.

Graham became aware his eyes were open and regarding some unfamiliar
thing.

It was something white, the edge of something, a frame of wood. He
moved his head slightly, following the contour of this shape. It went up
beyond the top of his eyes. He tried to think where he might be. Did it
matter, seeing he was so wretched? The colour of his thoughts was a dark
depression. He felt the featureless misery of one who wakes towards
the hour of dawn. He had an uncertain sense of whispers and footsteps
hastily receding.

The women looked at the corner of his eye to the old sailors: These
twisted snout. [161.1] Some were thrown to ask: - Is there care, Uncle
Pepe? Uncle Pepe, without taking his eyes from the horizon, answered:
-- Very good is not ... But the sea still did not say 'here I am. "He
said, however, sooner than had been thought. The storm came suddenly,
furious, the sea turned into a moment so formidable, and began to
break in _Huesos San Pedro_, which was the low [161.2] closer to
the coast: the short time also broke the _Cobanín_ that was the
closest on the other side of the creek.

The crowd which crowned the hill of San Esteban contemplated with dread
the progress of the storm, some women began to mourn. However, there
was still reason to grieve, said of the pilots, the port was entirely
free, as long as no anxieties (and this was accounted for, [162.1]
because in their power to avoid), could enter safely in Kneepad. Few
notes: - And the blows of the sea? Will they have time to scoop the
water - if there is time Oops! [162.2] ... But it does not seem that
we have not seen so far seas!

There are people like this to rampage for nothing - said a sailor bilious.
The energy with which he uttered these words silence the pessimists and
reassured one bit by women. Unfortunately, her triumph was short: a
few minutes, the sea broke in _Torno_, another of the low of the
bar. Near the chapel of St. Stephen was a farmer living in a shack
commissioned by the guild of dizzying through a short annual,
lighting bonfires, which served as the signal in the days or nights
of danger. This farmer, but was shipped a few times, knew the sea as any
practice. After carefully watching a good time and have often hesitated,
drew the corrala [162.3] of his hut dry a load of broom and gorse, placed
at the top of the mountain and gave the fire. It was the first notice
to fishermen. Elisa, who was among the crowd, near his mother, seeing
the fire felt that the heart is pressed; acordose of the terrible curse
of the sacristan, and all these sad and terrors superstitious
sleeping in her soul, awakened at once.

He sought, however, punished by shame, but began to tour groups with
ill-concealed anxiety to listen to the views of the sailors: each
sentence left rigid. Some people are just talking and watched a lot, the
wind hitting the face with them the last drops of heavy rain. The sea
grew rapidly after the break _Huesos San Pedro_ in _Cobanín y_ in
_Torno_, also broke into another under more separated from the coast.

He reeled out into the general space of the hall,
greatly astonished. He caught at the table to save himself, knocking one
of the glasses to the floor--it rang but did not break--and sat down in
one of the armchairs.

When he had a little recovered he filled the remaining glass from the
bottle and drank--a colourless liquid it was, but not water, with a
pleasing faint aroma and taste and a quality of immediate support and
stimulus. He put down the vessel and looked about him.

The apartment lost none of its size and magnificence now that the
greenish transparency that had intervened was removed. The archway he
saw led to a flight of steps, going downward without the intermediation
of a door, to a spacious transverse passage. This passage ran between
polished pillars of some white-veined substance of deep ultramarine,
and along it came the sound of human movements and voices and a deep
undeviating droning note. He sat, now fully awake, listening alertly,
forgetting the viands in his attention.

Then with a shock he remembered that he was naked, and casting about him
for covering, saw a long black robe thrown on one of the chairs beside
him. This he wrapped about him and sat down again, trembling.

His mind was still a surging perplexity. Clearly he had slept, and had
been removed in his sleep. But here? And who were those people, the
distant crowd beyond the deep blue pillars? Boscastle? He poured out and
partially drank another glass of the colourless fluid.

What was this place?--this place that to his senses seemed subtly
quivering like a thing alive? He looked about him at the clean and
beautiful form of the apartment, unstained by ornament, and saw that the
roof was broken in one place by a circular shaft full of light, and, as
he looked, a steady, sweeping shadow blotted it out and passed, and came
again and passed. "Beat, beat," that sweeping shadow had a note of its
own in the subdued tumult that filled the air.

He would have called out, but only a little sound came into his throat.
Then he stood up, and, with the uncertain steps of a drunkard, made his
way towards the archway. He staggered down the steps, tripped on the
corner of the black cloak he had wrapped about himself, and saved
himself by catching at one of the blue pillars.

The passage ran down a cool vista of blue and purple, and ended remotely
in a railed space like a balcony, brightly lit and projecting into a
space of haze, a space like the interior of some gigantic building.
Beyond and remote were vast and vague architectural forms. The tumult of
voices rose now loud and clear, and on the balcony and with their backs
to him, gesticulating and apparently in animated conversation, were
three figures, richly dressed in loose and easy garments of bright soft
colourings. The noise of a great multitude of people poured up over the
balcony, and once it seemed the top of a banner passed, and once some
brightly coloured object, a pale blue cap or garment thrown up into the
air perhaps, flashed athwart the space and fell. The shouts sounded like
English, there was a reiteration of "Wake!" He heard some indistinct
shrill cry, and abruptly the three men began laughing.


"Ha, ha, ha!" laughed one--a red-haired man in a short purple robe.
"When the Sleeper wakes--_When!_"

He turned his eyes full of merriment along the passage. His face
changed, the whole man changed, became rigid. The other two turned
swiftly at his exclamation and stood motionless. Their faces assumed an
expression of consternation, an expression that deepened into awe.

Suddenly Graham's knees bent beneath him, his arm against the pillar
collapsed limply, he staggered forward and fell upon his face.


CHAPTER IV. THE SOUND OF A TUMULT

Graham's last impression before he fainted was of a clamorous ringing of
bells. He learnt afterwards that he was insensible, hanging between life
and death, for the better part of an hour. What a perverted love euerm is
the child that you want to come to their senses, as you can see that
it is glüklich! Troknet your Thränen, umstekt this beautiful corpse with
rosemary and traget them, as the use is, in her best suit in the
church.The white framework was still about
him, but the greenish transparent substance that had filled it was
altogether gone. As came home fell in an accident so serious that haste
was necessary to call the surgeon of the place.

VIII When Joseph came to the afternoon of the sea and learned what had
happened, saw the most fierce pain in his life.
Something seemed to fall across this tumult, a door suddenly
closed.

Graham moved his head. "What does this all mean?" he said slowly. "Where
am I?"

He saw the red-haired man who had been first to discover him. A voice
seemed to be asking what he had said, and was abruptly stilled.

The man in violet answered in a soft voice, speaking English with a
slightly foreign accent, or so at least it seemed to the Sleeper's ears,
"You are quite safe. You were brought hither from where you fell asleep.
It is quite safe. You have been here some time--sleeping. In a trance."

He said something further that Graham could not hear, and a little phial
was handed across to him. Graham felt a cooling spray, a fragrant mist
played over his forehead for a moment, and his sense of refreshment
increased. He closed his eyes in satisfaction.

"Better?" asked the man in violet, as Graham's eyes reopened. Joseph,
facing him, eyes twinkling of anger, shouted: - Quiet, pig, or you miss
the water now!

The boy, frightened, shut. - Bring [157.2] borriquete the environment
and the anointing bow - ordered later.

This was done quickly arrived José [157.3] soon as he could, taking care
not to lose the line Kneepad the boat began to sail with extraordinary
speed, because the wind was blowing and increasingly violent Recio.

He knew he ought to be somewhere in Cornwall,
but he could not square these things with that impression.

A matter that had been in his mind during his last waking moments at
Boscastle recurred, a thing resolved upon and somehow neglected. He
cleared his throat.

"Have you wired my cousin?" he asked. "E. Warming, 27, Chancery Lane?"

They were all assiduous to hear. But he had to repeat it. "What an odd
_blurr_ in his accent!" whispered the red-haired man. "Wire, sir?" said
the young man with the flaxen beard, evidently puzzled.

"He means send an electric telegram," volunteered the third, a
pleasant-faced youth of nineteen or twenty. The flaxen-bearded man gave
a cry of comprehension. "How stupid of me! You may be sure everything
shall be done, sir," he said to Graham. Then again look around him
[98.1] and go to the left wall of the bleaching of the teacher's garden
is a large garden and feraz, full of fruit and vegetables, the best
there is in town, or better say, the only good. The criminal thought of
entering that garden and take some of the good gentleman assaulted
pulses; rejected instantly, he begins again; turns to reject it.

Finally, after a stubborn fight, but uneven, overcome sin.

D.
He had a sudden flash
of suspicion. Surely this wasn't some hall of public exhibition! If it
was he would give Warming a piece of his mind. But it scarcely had
that character. And in a place of public exhibition he would not have
discovered himself naked.

