"The Book of the Law of Moses" was the Jewish title given to the
Pentateuch at that time, and is so recognized again and again. Nehemiah
viii. 14 affirms again: "They found written in the law, which the Lord
had commanded by Moses, that the children of Israel should dwell in
booths in the feast of the seventh month." Nehemiah quotes this "command
of the Lord by Moses" from Lev. xxiii. 39-42, which was a fraud on the
part of Nehemiah, if Moses was not the author of the book. Again he says
in the thirteenth chapter of Nehemiah and first verse: "On that day they
read in the book of Moses, in the audience of the people"; but it was
not the book of Moses if he had not written it, but the book of another
one of the "unknown" so frequently found (?) in Scripture by our
critics.

The book of Moses in which this last reference from Nehemiah is written
is the command that the "Ammonite and the Moabite should not come into
the congregation of God for ever," and is recorded in Deut. xxiii. 3, 4.

But our critical friends inform us that Deuteronomy was not written
until after the captivity. Hence, the logic of their position is, that
Nehemiah attributes to Moses what he did not write, and proves himself
to be either ignorant of the truth or practicing a fraud upon the
people. We prefer the testimony of Nehemiah to that of the latter-day
critics.

It should be repeated that the prophets and inspired writers down to
Malachi reiterated their confidence in the Mosaic authorship of the
Pentateuch. And he, the last messenger of the Old Testament to Israel,
gave them this message from God: "Remember ye _the law of Moses_ my
servant, which I commanded unto him" (Mal. iv. 4). Indeed, the entire
testimony of the Old Testament is in harmony with the positive
statements made in the Pentateuch, that Moses was commanded to write,
and that he actually and positively "wrote all the words of the Lord"
(Exod. xxiv. 4). There is not a word, syllable, hint, or shadow of a
hint assigning these five books of Moses to a later date or author.

The presumption, or guess, of the critics carries no weight in the face
of the testimony of the entire Old Testament that God commanded Moses to
write, and that he did write, the five books attributed to him.


IV. WERE CHRIST AND THE APOSTLES MISTAKEN?

_Christ said to his apostles:_

_"Ye shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem, and in all Judea,
and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost parts of the earth." Acts i. 8._

_"I speak the truth in Christ and lie not." Paul in 1 Tim. ii. 7._

_"Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness and the first begotten of
the dead, and the Prince of the kings of the earth." The Apostle John in
Rev. i. 5._

_"We know that thou art a teacher come from God, for no man can do these
miracles that thou doest, except God be with him," Nicodemus, in John
iii. 2._

_"If I say the truth, why do ye not believe me?" Christ, in John viii.
46._

_"I am the way, the truth and the life." Christ, in John xiv. 6._


The opinions and testimony of the apostles are certainly worth
something. They had three years of instruction under our Lord, and the
promise from him that the Holy Spirit should guide them into all truth.
(John xvi. 13.)

A study of the writers of the New Testament proves that they are in
absolute harmony with the writers of the Old Testament as to the Mosaic
authorship of the five books of the Pentateuch. Luke ii. 22 informs us
that the mother of Jesus, "when the days of her purification were
accomplished according to the _law of Moses_," brought the child "to
present him to the Lord." This was done, according to Leviticus xii.
2-6, and accredits that book to Moses, and not to some imaginary author.

The Apostle John informs us that "the law was given by Moses, but grace
and truth came by Jesus Christ" (John i, 17). If he has misled us in
reference to Moses and the law, can we trust him in reference to grace
and truth by Jesus Christ?

When Peter made his address to the people who were surprised at the
healing of the cripple, he said: "_Moses truly said_ unto the fathers, A
prophet shall the Lord your God raise up unto you of your brethren,"
(See Acts iii. 22.)

This saying of Moses is recorded in Deut xviii. 15, the contents of
which book are introduced to us in these words; "These be the words
which Moses spake unto all Israel on this side Jordan in the wilderness,
in the plain over against the Red Sea" (Deut. i. 1), referring to the
whole books spoken by Moses, the learned man, mighty in words and deeds,
but not recorded, the critics say, until after the exile, about a
thousand years! This you are asked to believe on the basis of the
professed or assumed acumen of the critics!

Further, in his great speech before the Sanhedrim at his martyrdom,
Stephen quotes Moses as having received full and complete directions
from God concerning the tabernacle. (Acts vii. 44.) In the twenty-fifth
chapter of Exodus, the book in which Moses was commanded to write and
did write, these directions are recorded. We accept Stephen's testimony,
added to that of Exod. xxv., rather than the testimony of the critics.

When Paul was writing to the Corinthians of the blindness of the Jews (2
Cor. iii. 15) he said: "Even unto _this day, when Moses is read_, the
veil is upon their hearts."

Moses must have written something if he was read. What has become of his
writings? Is it not the Pentateuch which the Scriptures everywhere call
the writings of Moses? Undoubtedly, yes.

In Paul's missionary sermon at Antioch in Pisidia, he declared to his
audience that through Christ "all that believe are justified from all
things, from which ye could not be justified _by the law of Moses_"
(Acts xiii. 39).

Why does Paul refer to the ceremonial of the Jewish ritual as the law of
Moses? It must be answered that Paul was a Jew. He was familiar with the
Jewish scriptures. He had read the following passages and believed them,
and was grounded in the truth which they declare, that "by the hand of
Moses" they were given to the people.

To satisfy the reader that they were "given by the hand of Moses" the
following Scriptures are furnished:

1. "Aaron and his sons did all things which were commanded _by the hand
of Moses_." (Lev. viii. 36.)

2. "That ye may teach the children of Israel all the statutes which the
Lord hath spoken unto them _by the hand of Moses_." (Lev. x. 11.)

3. "These are the statutes and judgments and laws which the Lord made
between him and the children of Israel in Mount Sinai, _by the hand of
Moses_." Produced by Chuck Grief Doña Luz By Juan Valera Library Perojo Paris
1897 A Countess from Mrs Gomar V.

While in house, on a night last summer, was the simple story
of Doña Luz. Hallola V. Well, no doubt thanks to the indulgence
with which you look at me and encouraged me to write it. I promised
to write and engage V.; accepted V. promise, and today, with the
greatest pleasure the meet.

What I regret is worth the short of the gift itself or any claim, if
it attends to the person to whom he dedicated, for her talent and
beauty and so justly praised.

Is, however, shows my dedication, although poor, the respectful affection
that V. inspires me.

Otherwise, although the novel is not fun, I think that is worth something
for the very severe and harsh lessons it contains.

"Even all that the Lord hath commanded you _by the hand of Moses_,
from the day that the Lord commanded Moses." (Num. xv. 23.)

10. "That no stranger, which is not of the seed of Aaron, come near to
offer incense before the Lord, that he be not as Kora and his company,
as the Lord said to him _by the hand of Moses_." (Num. xvi. 40.)

11. "And he laid his hands upon him, and gave him a charge, as the Lord
commanded _by the hand of Moses_." (Num. xxvii. 23.)

12. "These are the commandments and the judgments which the Lord
commanded _by the hand of Moses_." (Num. xxxvi. 13.)

13. "By lot was their inheritance, as the Lord commanded _by the hand of
Moses_." (Joshua xiv. 2.)

14. "Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, Appoint out for you
cities of refuge, whereof I spake unto you _by the hand of Moses_."
(Joshua xx. 2.)

15. "The Lord commanded _by the hand of Moses_ to give us cities to
dwell in, with the suburbs thereof for our cattle." (Joshua xxi. 2.)

16. "And the children of Israel gave by lot unto the Levites these
cities with their suburbs, as the Lord commanded _by the hand of
Moses_." (Joshua xxi. 8.)

17. "And the children of Reuben, and the children of Gad, and the half
tribe of Manasseh returned, ... according to the word of the Lord _by
the hand of Moses_." (Joshua xxii. 9.)

18. "And they were to prove Israel by them, to know whether they would
hearken unto the commandments of the Lord, which he commanded their
fathers _by the hand of Moses_." (Judges iii. 4.)

19. "Thou didst separate them from among all the people of the earth, to
be thine inheritance, as thou spakest _by the hand of Moses, thy
servant_." (1 Kings viii. 53.)

20. "There hath not failed one word of all his good promise, which he
promised _by the hand of Moses his servant_." (1 Kings viii. 56.)

21. "So that they will take heed to do all that I have commanded them,
according to the whole law and the statutes and the ordinances _by the
hand of Moses_." (2 Chron. xxxiii. 8.)

22. "To kill the passover, and sanctify yourselves, and prepare your
brethren, that they may do according to the word of the Lord, _by the
hand of Moses_." (2 Chron. xxxv. 6.)

23. "Thou ... madest known unto them thy holy Sabbath, and commandedst
unto them precepts, statutes and laws, _by the hand of Moses thy
servant_." (Neh. ix. 14.)

24. I wanted to ask: "Is the lady, Catherine is still at home!" But
the word did not want to be on my tongue.

Drüben in a Seitenbau rear of the mansion, was a small chapel, but,
as I knew, not used since long was.He believed that God gave "the whole law
and the statutes and the ordinances _by the hand of Moses_" (2 Chron.
xxxiii. 8), who was learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and was
mighty in words and deeds. (Acts vii. 22.) Hence he called the
Scriptures "The Law of Moses."

Some of the critics will concede that many things were done by Moses,
but not recorded until after the exile. Think of it! The laws, statutes,
and ordinances which were vital to the life of the Jewish nation, which
had been given at Sinai, and were announced with the sanctions of life
or death, were not recorded by God's appointed leader, whom he had
trained in all the learning of the times, but were left for almost a
thousand years to uncertain tradition!

Paul had not forgotten the above statements concerning Moses' personal
connection with the giving of the law. Before Felix he was arraigned,
and testified "what the prophets and Moses did say." (Acts xxvi. 22.)

To the Jews at Rome "he expounded and testified the kingdom of God,
persuading them concerning Jesus, both out of the laws of Moses and out
of the prophets." (Acts xxviii. 23.)

In his Epistle to the Roman Christians he says (quoting from Lev. xviii.
5): "For Moses writeth that the man that doeth the righteousness which
is of the law shall live thereby." (Rom. x. 5, R.V.)

To the Corinthian Christians he says: "It is written in the _law of
Moses_. Thou shalt not muzzle the mouth of the ox when he treadeth out
the corn." (1 Cor. ix. 9.) Here again he quotes from Deut. xxv. 4, and
repeats the quotation in 1 Tim. v. 18. But the critics deny that it was
written until after the exile, at least nine hundred or one thousand
years later.

