THE WOGGLE-BUG BOOK

by

L. FRANK BAUM

Pictures by Ike Morgan


Chicago
The Reilly & Britton Co.
1905

Copyright
1905
by
L. Frank Baum
Every Right Reserved


The Unique Adventures of the WOGGLE-BUG

ONE day Mr. H. M. Woggle-Bug, T. E., becoming separated from his
comrades who had accompanied him from the Land of Oz, and finding that
time hung heavy on his hands (he had four of them), decided to walk
down the Main street of the City and try to discover something or other
of interest.

The initials "H. M." before his name meant "Highly Magnified," for this
Woggle-Bug was several thousand times bigger than any other woggle-bug
you ever saw. And the initials "T. E." after his named meant "Thoroughly
Educated"--and so he was, in the Land of Oz. But his education, being
applied to a woggle-bug intellect, was not at all remarkable in this
country, where everything is quite different than Oz. Yet the
Woggle-Bug did not suspect this, and being, like so many other thoroughly
educated persons, proud of his mental attainments, he marched along the
street with an air of importance that made one wonder what great
thoughts were occupying his massive brain.

Being about as big, in his magnified state, as a man, the Woggle-Bug
took care to clothe himself like a man; only, instead of choosing sober
colors for his garments, he delighted in the most gorgeous reds and
yellows and blues and greens; so that if you looked at him long the
brilliance of his clothing was liable to dazzle your eyes.

I suppose the Waggle-Bug did not realize at all what a queer appearance
he made. Being rather nervous, he seldom looked into a mirror; and as
the people he met avoided telling him he was unusual, he had fallen
into the habit of considering himself merely an ordinary citizen of the
big city wherein he resided.

So the Woggle-Bug strutted proudly along the street, swinging a cane in
one hand, flourishing a pink handkerchief in the other, fumbling his
watch-fob with another, and feeling his necktie was straight with
another. Having four hands to use would prove rather puzzling to you or
me, I imagine; but the Woggie-Bug was thoroughly accustomed to them.

Presently he came to a very fine store with big plate-glass windows,
and standing in the center of the biggest window was a creature so
beautiful and radiant and altogether charming that the first glance at
her nearly took his breath away. Her complexion was lovely, for it was
wax; but the thing which really caught the Woggle-Bug's fancy was the
marvelous dress she wore. Indeed, it was the latest (last year's) Paris
model, although the Woggle-Bug did not know that; and the designer must
have had a real woggly love for bright colors, for the gown was made of
red cloth covered with big checks which were so loud the fashion books
called them "Wagnerian Plaids."

Never had our friend the Woggle-Bug seen such a beautiful gown before,
and it afflicted him so strongly that he straightaway fell in love with
the entire outfit--even to the wax-complexioned lady herself! Very
politely he tipped his to her; but she stared coldly back without in
any way acknowledging the courtesy.

"Never mind," he thought; "'faint heart never won fair lady.' And I'm
determined to win this kaliedoscope of beauty or perish in the
attempt!" You will notice that our insect had a way of using big words
to express himself, which leads us to suspect that the school system in
Oz is the same they employ in Boston.

As, with swelling heart, the Woggle-Bug feasted his eyes upon the
enchanting vision, a small green tag that was attached to a button of
the waist suddenly attracted his attention. Upon the tag was marked:
"Price $7.93--GREATLY REDUCED."

"Ah!" murmured the Woggle-Bug; "my darling is in greatly reduced
circumstances, and $7.93 will make her mine! Where, oh where, shall I
find the seven ninety-three wherewith to liberate this divinity and
make her Mrs. Woggle-Bug?"

"Move on!" said a gruff policeman, who came along swinging his club.
And the Woggle-Bug obediently moved on, his brain working fast and
furious in the endeavor to think of a way to procure seven dollars and
ninety-three cents.

You see, in the Land of Oz they use no money at all, so that when the
Woggle-Bug arrived in America he did not possess a single penny. And no
one had presented him with any money since.

"Yet there must be several ways to procure money in this country," he
reflected; "for otherwise everybody would be as penniless as I am. But
how, I wonder, do they manage to get it?"

Just then he came along a side street where a number of men were at
work digging a long and deep ditch in which to lay a new sewer.

"Now these men," thought the Woggle-Bug, "must get money for shoveling
all that earth, else they wouldn't do it. Here is my chance to win the
charming vision of beauty in the shop window!"

Seeking out the foreman, he asked for work, and the foreman agreed to
hire him.

"How much do you pay these workmen?" asked the highly magnified one.

"Two dollars a day," answered the foreman.

"Then," said the Woggle-Bug, "you must pay me four dollars a day; for I
have four arms to their two, and can do double their work."

"If that is so, I'll pay you four dollars," agreed the man.

The Woggle-Bug was delighted.

"In two days," he told himself, as he threw off his brilliant coat and
placed his hat upon it, and rolled up his sleeves; "in two days I can
earn eight dollars--enough to purchase my greatly reduced darling and
buy her seven cents worth of caramels besides."

He seized two spades and began working so rapidly with his four arms
that the foreman said: "You must have been forewarned."

"Why?" asked the Insect.

"Because there's a saying that to be forewarned is to be four-armed,"
replied the other.

"That is nonsense," said the Woggle-Bug, digging with all his might;
"for they call you the foreman, and yet I only see one of you."

"Ha, ha!" laughed the man, and he was so proud of his new worker that
he went into the corner saloon to tell his friend the barkeeper what a
treasure he had found.

It was just after noon that the Woggle-Bug hired as a ditch-digger in
order to win his heart's desire; so at noon on the second day he quit
work, and having received eight silver dollars he put on his coat and
rushed away to the store that he might purchase his intended bride.

But, alas for the uncertainty of all our hopes! Just as the Woggle-Bug
reached the door he saw a lady coming out of the store dressed in
identical checks with which he had fallen in love!

At first he did not know what to do or say, for the young lady's
complexion was not wax--far from it. But a glance into the window
showed him the wax lady now dressed in a plain black tailor-made suit,
and at once he knew the wearer of the Wagnerian plaids was his real
love, and not the stiff creature behind the glass.

"Beg pardon!" he exclaimed, stopping the young lady; "but you're mine.
Here's the seven ninety-three, and seven cents for candy."

But she glanced at him in a haughty manner, and walked away with her
nose slightly elevated.

He followed. He could not do otherwise with those delightful checks
shining before him like beacon-lights to urge him on.

The young lady stepped into a car, which whirled away rapidly. For a
moment he was nearly paralyzed at his loss; then he started after the
car as fast as he could go, and this was very fast indeed--he being a
woggle-bug.

Somebody cried: "Stop, thief!" and a policeman ran out to arrest him.
But the Woggle-Bug used his four hands to push the officer aside, and
the astonished man went rolling into the gutter so recklessly that his
uniform bore marks of the encounter for many days.

Still keeping an eye on the car, the Woggle-Bug rushed on. He
frightened two dogs, upset a fat gentleman who was crossing the street,
leaped over an automobile that shot in front of him, and finally ran
plump into the car, which had abruptly stopped to let off a passenger.
Breathing hard from his exertions, he jumped upon the rear platform of
the car, only to see his charmer step off at the front and walk
mincingly up the steps of a house. Despite his fatigue, he flew after
her at once, crying out:

"Stop, my variegated dear--stop! Don't you know you're mine?"

But she slammed the door in his face, and he sat down upon the steps
and wiped his forehead with his pink handkerchief and fanned himself
with his hat and tried to think what he should do next.

Presently a very angry man came out of the house. He had a revolver in
one hand and a carving-knife in the other.

"What do you mean by insulting my wife?" he demanded.

"Was that your wife?" asked the Woggle-Bug, in meek astonishment.

"Of course it is my wife," answered the man.

"Oh, I didn't know," said the insect, rather humbled. "But I'll give
you seven ninety-three for her. That's all she's worth, you know; for I
saw it marked on the tag."

The man gave a roar of rage and jumped into the air with the intention
of falling on the Woggle-Bug and hurting him with the knife and pistol.
But the Woggle-Bug was suddenly in a hurry, and didn't wait to be
jumped on. Indeed, he ran so very fast that the man was content to let
him go, especially as the pistol wasn't loaded and the carving-knife
was as dull as such knives usually are.

But his wife had conceived a great dislike for the Wagnerian check
costume that had won for her the Woggle-Bug's admiration. "I'll never
wear it again!" she said to her husband, when he came in and told her
that the Woggle-Bug was gone.

"Then," he replied, "you'd better give it to Bridget; for she's been
bothering me about her wages lately, and the present will keep her
quite for a month longer."

So she called Bridget and presented her with the dress, and the
delighted servant decided to wear it that night to Mickey Schwartz's
ball.

Now the poor Woggle-Bug, finding his affection scorned, was feeling
very blue and unhappy that evening, When he walked out, dressed (among
other things) in a purple-striped shirt, with a yellow necktie and
pea-green gloves, he looked a great deal more cheerful than he really
was. He had put on another hat, for the Woggle-Bug had a superstition
that to change his hat was to change his luck, and luck seemed to have
overlooked the fact that he was in existence.

The hat may really have altered his fortunes, as the Insect shortly met
Ikey Swanson, who gave him a ticket to Mickey Schwartz's ball; for
Ikey's clean dickey had not come home from the laundry, and so he could
not go himself.

The Woggle-Bug, thinking to distract his mind from his dreams of love,
attended the hall, and the first thing he saw as he entered the room
was Bridget clothed in that same gorgeous gown of Wagnerian plaid that
had so fascinated his bugly heart.

The dear Bridget had added to her charms by putting seven full-blown
imitation roses and three second-hand ostrich-plumes in her red hair;
so that her entire person glowed like a sunset in June.

The Woggle-bug was enraptured; and, although the divine Bridget was
waltzing with Fritzie Casey, the Insect rushed to her side and, seizing
her with all his four arms at once, cried out in his truly educated
Bostonian way:

"Oh, my superlative conglomeration of beauty! I have found you at
last!"

Bridget uttered a shriek, and Fritzie Casey doubled two fists that
looked like tombstones, and advanced upon the intruder.

Still embracing the plaid costume with two arms, the Woggle-Bug tipped
Mr. Casey over with the other two. But Bridget made a bound and landed
with her broad heel, which supported 180 pounds, firmly upon the
Insect's toes. He gave a yelp of pain and promptly released the lady,
and a moment later he found himself flat upon the floor with a dozen of
the dancers piled upon him--all of whom were pummeling each other with
much pleasure and a firm conviction that the diversion had been planned
for their special amusement.

But the Woggle-Bug had the strength of many men, and when he flopped
the big wings that were concealed by the tails of his coat, the
gentlemen resting upon him were scattered like autumn leaves in a gust
of wind.

The Insect stood up, rearranged his dress, and looked about him.
Bridget had run away and gone home, and the others were still fighting
amongst themselves with exceeding cheerfulness. So the Woggle-Bug
selected a hat which fit him (his own having been crushed out of shape)
and walked sorrowfully back to his lodgings.

Produced by Chuck Grief Doña Luz By Juan Valera Library Perojo Paris
1897 A Countess from Mrs Gomar V. While in house, on a night last
summer, was the simple story of Doña Luz.

Hallola V. Well, no doubt thanks to the indulgence with which you look
at me and encouraged me to write it. I promised to write and engage V.;
accepted V. promise, and today, with the greatest pleasure the meet.
What I regret is worth the short of the gift itself or any claim,
if it attends to the person to whom he dedicated, for her talent
and beauty and so justly praised.

Is, however, shows my dedication, although poor, the respectful
affection that V. inspires me. Otherwise, although the novel is not
fun, I think that is worth something for the very severe and harsh
lessons it contains. Set aside five hundred thousand and that any sharp
critic if you can get praise and strives to be showcased, and I
am merely giving the lesson, not only to the friars, that in Spain
there are so few now, but by extension the entire courtly gentleman,
old man or something machucho, who falls in love vicious.

The disastrous case of P. Henry will serve as a warning and recording in
the mind of the old courtier as moral principal, those warnings
with the illustrious divine Micer Pietro Bembo and crown hermosea
book _The cortesano_.

The warnings say in summary that the court "his desire to straighten
beauty alone, and the more we can contemplate in itself pure and
simple, and within the imagination in the form of separate matters,
and shape and make friends and family of his soul, and hence the
enjoyment, and it has the days and nights in any place and time
without fear of ever perdella, remembering always that the body is
very different kinds of beauty, and not only not growing, but you
ruin your Apoc.

This way it will be our old courtier out of all those miseries and
troubles that often the young men often feel, and feel no jealousy
or suspicion, or desabrimientos or anger or despair, or a thousand
other follies filled with rage, with which often come to love so
crazy that even unreasonable to kill themselves "as happened to Fr
Enrique, back to my story.

To which Father would have been better to draw on this scale love to
climb to the highest degree. Because, considering the narrowness
of being always occupied in contemplating the beauty of a single
body, he had felt something and desire to widen the exit end so
narrow, and we also had to gather much beauty in his mind, and by
a single , to form that which on the whole nature stretches and
strokes.

We know, finally, that for top of this universal concept of beauty,
there is another excelsa, uncreated and that all came from. If love
comes to columbrarla, what does not forget? And then (and this is the
whole doctrine of micer Pietro Bembo), was at that burns the
soul flame, symbolized and foreshadowed in the huge pyre which
burned Hercules, after all his work there on the summit of Mount
Oeta or and converted back into the burning car, where Elijah left
the earth and was flying to heaven.

"Yo, lady, with the weight of years, and that bothers me a lot, and
not a few disappointments healthy, I'm going to provide, although a
sinner, to climb this way.

And although in my novels are still noticeable remnants of men and worldly
passions, there are already signs of them as I call it very different
from other voices of the world. With this, it lost in what I write
amenity, but win Utilities.

Now that fashion is what teachers tell me V. Frankly if my book does
not teach something when it teaches. V. Give therefore approval;
defiéndala and accept it as it belongs, and believe me your server and
devoted friend, JUAN VALERA.

-I-The Marquis and his manager Not all I refer to stories that have
happened in Villabermeja.

Today I have a very interesting happened a few years has, in another
place nearby, which we call Villafría aside for more things their
real names.

Moreover, among Villabermeja Villafría and is not very noticeable
difference, because, although Villabermeja has a more miraculous
patron saint, Villafría term is richer, more people, better houses,
and wealthy landowners.

These descollaba D. Acisclo, so called since it turned forty-five years,
which in turn had been before, until the age of twenty-eight to thirty,
and uncle Acisclillo Acisclo later.

The gift came and antepuso Finally, the Acisclo, by the tone and the
importance that Mr rightly given to the many funds that were managed
carefully and honestly acquired. His reputation transcended throughout
the province.
Again the Woggle-Bug reluctantly abandoned a dollar; but the end was
not yet. The dear children wanted candy and nuts; and then they warned
pink lemonade; and then pop-corn and chewing-gum; and always the
Woggle-Bug, after a glance at the entrancing costume, found himself
unable to resist paying for the treat.

It was nearly evening when the widow pleaded fatigue and asked to be
taken home. For none of them was able to eat another morsel, and the
Woggle-Bug wearied her with his protestations of boundless admiration.

"Will you permit me to call upon you this evening?" asked the Insect,
pleadingly, as he bade the wearer of the gown good-bye on her
door-step.

"Sure like!" she replied, not caring to dismiss him harshly; and the
happy Woggle-Bug went home with a light heart, murmuring to himself:

"At last the lovely plaids are to be my own! The new hat I found at the
ball has certainly brought me luck."

I am glad our friend the Woggle-Bug had those few happy moments, for he
was destined to endure severe disappointments in the near future.

That evening he carefully brushed his coat, put on a green satin
necktie and a purple embroidered waist-coat, and walked briskly towards
the house of the widow. But, alas! as he drew near to the dwelling a
most horrible stench greeted his nostrils, a sense of great depression
came over him, and upon pausing before the house his body began to
tremble and his eyes rolled wildly in their sockets.

For the wily widow, wishing to escape her admirer, had sprinkled the
door-step and the front walk with insect Exterminator, and not even the
Woggle-Bug's love for the enchanting checked gown could induce him to
linger longer in that vicinity.

Sick and discouraged, he returned home, where his first act was to
smash the luckless hat and replace it with another. But it was some
time before he recovered from the horrors of that near approach to
extermination, and he passed a very wakeful and unhappy night, indeed.

Meantime the widow had traded with a friend of hers (who had once been
a wash-lady for General Funston) the Wagnerian costume for a crazy
quilt and a corset that was nearly as good as new and a pair of silk
stockings that were not mates. It was a good bargain for both of them,
and the wash-lady being colored--that is, she had a deep mahogany
complexion--was delighted with her gorgeous gown and put it on the very
next morning when she went to deliver the wash to the brick-layer's
wife.

Surely it must have been Fate that directed the Woggle-Bug's steps;
for, as he walked disconsolately along, an intuition caused him to
raise his eyes, and he saw just ahead of him his affinity--carrying a
large clothes-basket.

"Stop!" he called our, anxiously; "stop, my fair Grenadine, I implore
you!"

The colored lady cast one glance behind her and imagined that Satan had
at last arrived to claim her. For she had never before seen the
Woggle-Bug, and was horrified by his sudden and unusual appearance.

"Go 'way, Mars' Debbil! Go 'way an' lemme 'lone!" she screeched, and
the next minute she dropped her empty basket and sped up the street
with a swiftness that only fear could have lent her flat-bottomed feet.

Nevertheless, the Woggle-Bug might have overtaken her had he not
stepped into the clothes-basket and fallen headlong, becoming so
tangled up in the thing that he rolled over and over several times
before he could free himself. Then, when he had picked up his hat,
which was utterly ruined, and found his cane, which had flown across
the street, his mahogany charmer in the Wagnerian Plaids had
disappeared from view.

With a sigh at his latest misfortune he returned home for another hat,
and the agitated wash-lady, imagining that the devil had doubtless been
lured by her beautiful gown, made haste to sell it to a Chinaman who
lived next door.

Its bright colors pleased the Chink, who ripped it up and made it over
into a Chinese robe, with flowing draperies falling to his heels. He
dressed himself in his new costume and, being proud of possessing such
finery, sat down on a bench outside his door so that everyone passing
by could see how magnificent he looked.

It was here the wandering Woggle-Bug espied him; and, recognizing at
once the pattern and colors of his infatuating idol, he ran up and sat
beside the Chinaman, saying in agitated but educated tones:

"Oh my prismatic personification of gigantic gorgeousness!--again I
have found you!"

"Sure tling," said the Chink with composure.

"Be mine! Only be mine!" continued the enraptured Woggle-Bug.

The Chinaman did not quite understand.

"Two dlolla a day," he answered, cautiously.

"Oh, joy," exclaimed the insect in delight; "I can then own you for a
day and a half--for I have three dollars left. May I feel your
exquisite texture, my dearest Fabric?"

"No flabic. No feelee. You too flesh. I _man_ Chinaman!" returned the
Oriental calmly.

"Never mind that! 'Tis your beautiful garment I love. Every check in
that entrancing dress is a joy and a delight to my heart!"

While the Woggle-Bug thus raved, the Chinaman's wife (who was Mattie De
Forest before she married him) heard the conversation, and decided this
love affair had gone far enough. So she suddenly appeared with a
broomstick, and with it began pounding the Woggle-Bug as fiercely as
possible--and Mattie was no weakling, I assure you.

The first blow knocked the Insect's hat so far over his eyes that he
was blinded; but, resolving not to be again cheated out of his darling,
he grasped firmly hold of the Wagnerian plaids with all four hands, and
tore a goodly portion of it from the frightened Celestial's body.

Next moment he was dashing down the street, with the precious cloth
tucked securely underneath an arm, and Mattie, being in slight
dishabile, did not think best to follow him.

The triumphant joy of the Woggle-Bug can well be imagined. No more need
he chase the fleeting vision of his love--no more submit to countless
disappointments in his efforts to approach the object of his affection.
The gorgeous plaids were now his own (or a large part of them, anyway),
and upon reaching the quiet room wherein he lodged he gloated long and
happily over its vivid coloring and violent contrasts of its glowing
hues. To the eyes of the Woggle-Bug nothing could be more beautiful,
and he positively regretted the necessity of ever turning his gaze from
this bewitching treasure.

That he might never in the future be separated from the checks, he
folded them, with many loving caresses, into compact form, and wrapped
them in a sheet of stout paper tied with cotton cord that had a
love-knot at the end. Wherever he went, thereafter, he carried the
parcel underneath his left upper arm, pressed as closely to his heart
as possible. And this sense of possession was so delightful that our
Woggle-Bug was happy as the day is long.

In the evening his fortunes changed with cruel abruptness.

He walked out to take the air, and noticing a crowd people standing in
an open space and surrounding a huge brown object, our Woggle-Bug
stopped to learn what the excitement was about.

Pushing his way through the crowd, and hugging his precious parcel, he
soon reached the inner circle of spectators and found they had
assembled to watch a balloon ascension. The Professor who was to go up
with the balloon had not yet arrived; but the balloon itself was fully
inflated and tugging hard at the rope that held it, as if anxious to
escape the blended breaths of the people that crowded around. Just
below the balloon was a small basket, attached to the netting of the
gas-bag, and the Woggle-Bug was bending over the edge of this, to see
what it contained, when a warning cry from the crowd caused him to
pause and glance over his shoulder.

Great horrors and crumpled creeps! Springing toward him, with a scowl
on his face and a long knife with a zig-zag blade in his uplifted hand,
was that very Chinaman from whose body he had torn the Wagnerian
plaids!

The plundered Celestial was evidently vindictive, and intended to push
the wicked knife into the Woggle-Bug's body.

Our hero was a brave bug, as can easily be proved; but he did not wait
for the knife to arrive at the broad of his back. Instead, he gave a
yell (to show he was not afraid) and leaped nimbly into the basket of
the balloon. The descending knife, missing its intended victim, fell
upon the rope and severed it, and instantly the great balloon from the
crowd and soared majestically toward the heavens.

The Woggle-Bug had escaped the Chinaman, but he didn't know whether to
be glad or not.

For the balloon was earning him into the clouds, and he had no idea how
to manage it, or to make it descend to earth again. When he peered over
the edge of the basket he could hear the faint murmur of the crowd, and
dimly see the enraged Professor (who had come too late) pounding the
Chinaman, while the Chinaman tried to dissect the Professor with his
knife.

Then all was blotted out; clouds rolled about him; night fell. The man
in the moon laughed at him; the stars winked at each other as if
delighted at the Woggle-Bug's plight, and a witch riding by on her
broomstick yelled at him to keep on the right side of the road, and not
run her down.

But the Woggle-Bug, squatted in the bottom of the basket and hugging
his precious parcel to his bosom, paid no attention to anything but his
own thoughts.

He had often ridden in the Gump; but never had he been so high as this,
and the distance to the ground made him nervous.

When morning came he saw a strange country far beneath him, and longed
to tread the earth again.

Now all woggle-bugs are born with wings, and our highly-magnified one
had a beautiful, broad pair of floppers concealed beneath ample
coat-tails. But long ago he had learned that his wings were not strong
enough to lift his big body from the ground, so he had never tried to
fly with them.

Here, however, was an occasion when he might put these wings to good
use, for if he spread them in the air and then leaped over the side of
the basket they would act in the same way a parachute does, and bear
him gently to the ground.

No sooner did this thought occur to him than he put it into practice.

Disentangling his wings from his coat-tails, he spread them as wide as
possible and then jumped from the car of the balloon.

Down, down the Woggle-Bug sank; but so slowly that there was no danger
in the flight. He began to see the earth again, lying beneath him like
a sun-kissed panorama of mud and frog-ponds and rocks and brushwood.

There were few trees, yet it was our insect's fate to drop directly
above what trees there were, so that presently he came ker-plunk into a
mass of tangled branches--and stuck there, with his legs dangling
helplessly between two limbs and his wings caught in the foliage at
either side.

Below was a group of Arab children, who at first started to run away.
But, seeing that the queer creature which had dropped from the skies
was caught fast in the tree, they stopped and began to throw stones and
clubs at it. One of the missiles struck the tree-limb at the right of
the Woggle-Bug and jarred him loose. The next instant he fluttered to
the ground, where his first act was to fold up his wings and tuck them
underneath his coat-tails again, and his next action was to assure
himself that the beloved plaids were still safe.

Then he looked for the Arab children; but they had scuttled away
towards a group of tents, and now several men with dark skins and gay
clothing came from the tents and ran towards the Woggle-Bug.

"Good morning," said our hero, removing his hat with a flourish and
bowing politely.

"Meb-la-che-bah!" shouted the biggest Arab, and at once two others
wound coils of rope around the Woggle-Bug and tied the ends in hard
knots.

His hat was knocked off and trampled into the mud by the Shiek (who was
the big Arab), and the precious parcel was seized and ruthlessly
opened.

"Very good!" said the Shiek, eyeing the plaids with pleasure. "My
slaves shall make me a new waistcoat of this cloth."

"No! Casca. 'S is true, it does not fit. Decius. If no one else, as Caesar,
touched? Cassius. Yes, well considered! Me seems that Mark Anthony, so
popular at the Caesar, the Caesar can not survive. He will join us in
looking scheming show, and you know that his power when he uses
it, probably sufficed, we all need to create.

To defend the case both Caesar and Antony. Brutus. Blutge Too way Cajus
Cassius, wär's, The Main zerhaun off and the limbs, Like wrath in
death and malice behind. Anthony is just a member of the Caesar.
Opferer Let us not slaughterman, Cajus.

We all stand against Caesar's spirit, And in the spirit of man is
no blood.

O but we could achieve And Caesar's spirit Cäsarn not zerstücken!

But oh! Caesar must bleed for him.

Noble friends, kühnlich Let us kill him, but not angry, let's cutting
it a feast for the gods, Not zerhauen him like a carrion for dogs.

Let our hearts, like smart men, to stir up their act quickly servant.

And then Scheine diminish.

This will need our works and not spiteful; And if it so the people of
Aug appears, is to get cleaner, not murderers call. What concerns Mark
Anton, does not think of him, because he can no more than Caesar's
arm When Caesar's main only fell. Cassius. But I fear him, because
his love so strongly depends on the Caesar.

Brutus. Alas, good Cassius, denket not him! Loves it Caesar, so he can
not as against it; härmen is, for him to die . and that would be a lot
from him, because he is a pleasure, The Wüstheit, the resulting binge.
Trebonius. It is no Arg in him and he do not die.

For he will live once and this belachen.

(The bell is proposing.) Brutus . Still! counts the bell. Cassius.
It has three beaten. Trebonius. It is time to sheaths. Cassius. But
doubt I still Whether Caesar will now want to appear, because he is
superstitious recently been quite the opposite, as he thought of
otherwise dreams, imagination and heilgen customs.

Perhaps, that the great wonders of things, the unusual horror of
that night, and his persuasion Augurn removes him from the Capitol for
today holds.

Decius. The fear of never, if he so decided, Sun übermeistr 'I
him.

He hears it like The unicorn could start with trees, the lion in the
network, the Elephant in pits, the bear with mirrors and humans by
flatterers; But I tell him that he hates flatterers, he affirms
it, most then flattered. Let me give, because I understand his mind
to steer, And to bring him to the Capitol. Cassius. Yes, let's all
go to him to fetch. Brutus.

The eighth hour on the latest, is not it? Cinna. This is the latest,
and then still not enough. Metellus. Cajus Ligarius Caesar is the enemy
who's referred to him, that he praised Pompey, I am surprised that
nobody's thought.

Brutus. well, good Cimber, goes only to him He loves you very much,
and I gave him reason; hieher send him, I will agree with him already.
Cassius.

The morning rush us: let us go. allayed you friends, but remember all
of what you said and show yourselves real Romans. Brutus.

Behold, worthy men, fresh and cheerful; Carrying your intent is not on
your forehead. No,'s leads through as heroes of our scene, with munterm
spirit and strength würdger. And therefore you overall good morning!
(All from except Brutus.) Hey, Lucius! - fixed in your sleep? It
harms nothing.
"Come, let me introduce you
to our jungle, where strangers of good breeding are always welcome."

"As for breeding," said the Woggle-Bug, "my father, although of
ordinary size, was a famous Bug-Wizard in his day, and claimed descent
from the original protoplasm which constituted the nucleus of the
present planetary satellite upon which we exist."

"That's all right," returned Miss Chim. "Tell that to our king, and
he'll decorate you with the medal of the Omnipotent Order of Onerous
Orthographers, Are you ready to meander?"

The Woggle-Bug did not like the flippant tone in which maiden spoke;
but he at once followed her.

Presently they came to a tall hedge surrounding the Inner Jungle, and
without this hedge stood a patrol of brown bears who wore red
soldier-caps and carried gold-plated muskets in their hands.

"We call this the bearier," said Miss Chim, pointing to the soldiers,
"because they oblige all strangers to paws."

"I should think it was a bearicade," remarked the Woggle-Bug.

But when they approached the gateway the officer in charge saluted
respectfully to Miss Chim, and permitted her to escort the Woggle-Bug
into the sacred precincts of the Inner Jungle.

Here his eyes were soon opened to their widest capacity in genuine
astonishment.

Size it down and talk with her, it is your own. How? Ariel, my
ausrichtsamer servant, Ariel - Zweyte Scene. (Ariel to the former.)
Ariel. What orders, mighty lord? here I am. Prospero. You and your
little earlier Mitgesellen have their service provide the best,
and I want you IZT game to another use.

Go, bring the spirits Schaar, about which I have given thee of violence,
to this place; Muntre to move on, because I have the eyes of this
young couple with any vanity to amuse my art, I've promised, and
it's expected of them me. Ariel. Immediately? Prospero.

Yes, in a Augenblik. Ariel. Eh you say can come and go, zweymal Athmer
and Ruff, so, so, should everyone on the toes tripplend Seyn here, and
make his art. Love me now, my lord?

* (-* Ed. Ariel says that the original verses in small, all in rhyme O,
and, because they all have their type, therefore, are not in rhymes
übersezen leave.)

Prospero. Höchlich, my sense of Ariel; not come back until I thee
Ruff. Ariel. Well, I understand you. (Geht ab.) Prospero (to Ferdinand).
you do not forget to keep your word, the joke does not drift too far,
the only strongest oaths are straw for the fire in our blood,
think better of you, or good night, vow!

Ferdinand. versichre I you, my Lord, this white cold virgin snow
in my heart gedrükt, cools the Hize from my liver.

Prospero .

Well, IZT come, my Ariel, bring a spirit too much rather than that of
a mangle; seemed blithely us - not a word you speak, louder Seyde
eye, Still! (You hear a nice music.)

Third Scene. (An allegorical drama.)
murmured the astonished Insect, putting up his left lower hand
to feel of the beloved necktie.

"You think you have won," continued the Hip; "but there are others who
have 1, 2. You have many heart throbs before you, during your future
life. Afterward I see no heart throbs whatever. Forty cents, please."

"Isn't he just wonderful?" asked Miss Chim, with enthusiasm. "He's the
greatest fortune teller in the jungle."

"On account of his size, I suppose," returned the Woggle-Bug, as they
walked on.

Soon they came to the Royal Palace, which was a beautiful bower formed
of vines upon which grew many brilliant-hued forest flowers. The
entrance was guarded by a Zebra, who barred admission until Miss Chim
whispered the password in his ear. Then he permitted them to enter, and
the Chimpanzee immediately ushered the Woggle-Bug into the presence of
King Weasel.

This monarch lay coiled upon a purple silk cushion, half asleep and yet
wakeful enough to be smoking a big cigar. Beside him crouched two
prairie-dogs who were combing his hair very carefully, while a red
squirrel perched near his head and fanned him with her bushy tail.

"Dear me, what have we here?" exclaimed the King of the Jungle, in a
querulous tone, "Is it an over-grown pinch-bug, or is it a
kissing-bug?"

"I have the honor to be a Woggle-Bug, your Majesty!" replied our hero,
proudly.

"Sav, cut out that Majesty," snapped the King, with a scowl. "If you
can find anything majestic about me, I'd like to know what it is."

"Don't treat him with any respect," whispered Miss Chim to the Insect,
"or you'll get him riled. Sneer at him, and slap his face if you get a
chance."

The Woggle-Bug took the hint.

"Really," he told the King. "I have never seen a more despicable
creature than you. The admirable perspicacity inherent in your tribe
seems to have deteriorated in you to a hyperbolated insousancy." Then
he reached out his arms and slapped the king four times, twice on one
side of his face and twice on the other.

"Thanks, my dear June-Bug," said the monarch; "I now recognize you to
be a person of some importance."

"Sire, I am a Woggle-Bug, highly magnified and thoroughly educated. It
is no exaggeration to say I am the greatest Woggle-Bug on earth."

"I fully believe it, so pray do not play any more foursomes on my jaw.
I am sufficiently humiliated at this moment to recognize you as a
Sullivanthauros, should you claim to be a member of that extinct race."

Then two little weasels--a boy weasel and a girl weasel--came into the
bower and threw their school-books at the squirrel so cleverly that one
hit the King upon the nose and smashed his cigar and the other caught
him fairly in the pit of his stomach.

At first the monarch howled a bit; then he wiped the tears from his
face and said:

"Ah, what delightful children I have! What do you wish, my darlings?"

"I want a cent for chewing gum," said the Girl Weasel.

"Get it from the Guinea-Pig; you have my assent. And what does my dear
boy want?"

"Pop," went the Weasel, "our billy-goat has swallowed the hare you gave
me to play with."

"Dear me," sighed the King, "how often I find a hair in the butter!
Whenever I reign people carry umbrellas; and my son, although quite
polished, indulges only in monkey-shines! Uneasy lies the head that
wears a crown! but if one is scalped, the loss of the crown renders the
head still more uneasy."

"Couldn't they find a better king than you?" enquired the Woggle-Bug,
curiously, as the children left the bower.

"Yes; but no worse," answered the Weasel; "and here in the jungle
honors are conferred only upon the unworthy. For if a truly great
animal is honored he gets a swelled head, and that renders him
unbearable. They now regard the King of the Jungle with contempt, and
that makes all my subjects self-respecting."

"There is wisdom in that," declared the Woggle-Bug, approvingly; "a
single glance at you makes me content with being so excellent a bug."

"True," murmured the King, yawning. "But you tire me, good stranger.
Miss Chim, will you kindly get the gasoline can? It's high time to
eradicate this insect."

"With pleasure," said Miss Chim, moving away with a smile.

But the Woggle-Bug did not linger to be eradicated. With one wild bound
he cleared the door of the palace and sprinted up the entrance of the
Jungle. The bear soldiers saw him running away, and took careful aim
and fired. But the gold-plated muskets would not shoot straight, and
now the Woggle-Bug was far distant, and still running with all his
might.

Nor did he pause until he had emerged from the forest and crossed the
plains, and reached at last the city from whence he had escaped in the
balloon. And, once again in his old lodgings, he looked at himself in
the mirror and said:

"After all, this necktie is my love--and my love is now mine
forevermore! Why should I not be happy and content?"


THE END.


_A full account of the Woggle-Bug is given in Mr. Baum's delightful
counter story, _THE MARVELOUS LAND OF OZ,_ in which is also narrated
the amazing adventures of the Scarecrow, the Tin Woodman, Jack
Pumpkinhead and the Animated Saw Horse.