He whistled and the landlord entered -- answered Maitre Pierre's
bon jour with a reverence -- but in no respect showed any part of
the prating humour properly belonging to a French publican of all
ages.

"I expected a gentleman," said Maitre Pierre, "to order breakfast
-- hath he done so?"

In answer the landlord only bowed; and while he continued to bring,
and arrange upon the table, the various articles of a comfortable
meal, omitted to extol their merits by a single word. And yet the
breakfast merited such eulogiums as French hosts are wont to confer
upon their regales, as the reader will be informed in the next
chapter.


CHAPTER IV: THE DEJEUNER

Sacred heaven! what masticators! what bread!

YORICK'S TRAVELS


We left our young stranger in France situated more comfortably than
he had found himself since entering the territories of the ancient
Gauls. The breakfast, as we hinted in the conclusion of the last
chapter, was admirable. There was a pate de Perigord, over which a
gastronome would have wished to live and die, like Homer's lotus
eaters [see the Odyssey, chap. ix, where Odysseus arrives at
the land of the Lotus eaters: "whosoever of them ate the lotus's
honeyed fruit resolved to bring tidings back no more and never to
leave the place, but with the Lotus eaters there desired to stay,
to feed on lotus and forget his going home." Palmer's Translation.],
forgetful of kin, native country, and all social obligations
whatever. Its vast walls of magnificent crust seemed raised like
the bulwarks of some rich metropolitan city, an emblem of the wealth
which they are designed to protect. There was a delicate ragout,
with just that petit point de l'ail [a little flavor of garlic.
The French is ungrammatical.] which Gascons love, and Scottishmen
do not hate. There was, besides, a delicate ham, which had once
supported a noble wild boar in the neighbouring wood of Mountrichart.
There was the most exquisite white bread, made into little round
loaves called boules (whence the bakers took their French name of
boulangers), of which the crust was so inviting, that, even with
water alone, it would have been a delicacy. But the water was not
alone, for there was a flask of leather called bottrine, which
contained about a quart of exquisite Vin de Beaulne. So many good
things might have created appetite under the ribs of death. What
effect, then, must they have produced upon a youngster of scarce
twenty, who (for the truth must be told) had eaten little for the
two last days, save the scarcely ripe fruit which chance afforded
him an opportunity of plucking, and a very moderate portion of
barley bread? He threw himself upon the ragout, and the plate was
presently vacant -- he attacked the mighty pasty, marched deep
into the bowels of the land, and seasoning his enormous meal with
an occasional cup of wine, returned to the charge again and again, to
the astonishment of mine host, and the amusement of Maitre Pierre.

The latter indeed, probably because he found himself the author of
a kinder action than he had thought of, seemed delighted with the
appetite of the young Scot; and when, at length, he observed that
his exertions began to languish, endeavoured to stimulate him to
new efforts by ordering confections, darioles [cream cakes], and
any other light dainties he could think of, to entice the youth to
continue his meal. While thus engaged, Maitre Pierre's countenance
expressed a kind of good humour almost amounting to benevolence,
which appeared remote from its ordinary sharp, caustic, and severe
character. The aged almost always sympathize with the enjoyments
of youth and with its exertions of every kind, when the mind of
the spectator rests on its natural poise and is not disturbed by
inward envy or idle emulation.

Quentin Durward also, while thus agreeably employed, could do no
otherwise than discover that the countenance of his entertainer,
which he had at first found so unprepossessing, mended when it
was seen under the influence of the Vin de Beaulne, and there was
kindness in the tone with which he reproached Maitre Pierre, that
he amused himself with laughing at his appetite, without eating
anything himself.

"I am doing penance," said Maitre Pierre, "and may not eat anything
before noon, save some comfiture and a cup of water. -- Bid yonder
lady," he added, turning to the innkeeper, "bring them hither to
me."

The innkeeper left the room, and Maitre Pierre proceeded, "Well,
have I kept faith with you concerning the breakfast I promised
you?"

"The best meal I have eaten," said the youth, "since I left Glen
Houlakin."

"Glen -- what?" demanded Maitre Pierre. "Are you going to raise
the devil, that you use such long tailed words?"

"Glen Houlakin," answered Quentin good humouredly, "which is to
say the Glen of the Midges, is the name of our ancient patrimony,
my good sir. You have bought the right to laugh at the sound, if
you please."

"I have not the least intention to offend," said the old man; "but
I was about to say, since you like your present meal so well, that
the Scottish Archers of the guard eat as good a one, or a better,
every day."

"No wonder," said Durward; "for if they be shut up in the swallows'
nests all night, they must needs have a curious appetite in the
morning."

"And plenty to gratify it upon," said Maitre Pierre. "They need
not, like the Burgundians, choose a bare back, that they may have
a full belly -- they dress like counts, and feast like abbots."

"It is well for them," said Durward.

"And wherefore will you not take service here, young man? Your uncle
might, I dare say, have you placed on the file when there should
a vacancy occur. And, hark in your ear, I myself have some little
interest, and might be of some use to you. You can ride, I presume,
as well as draw the bow?"

"Our race are as good horsemen as ever put a plated shoe into
a steel stirrup; and I know not but I might accept of your kind
offer. Yet, look you, food and raiment are needful things, but,
in my case, men think of honour, and advancement, and brave deeds
of arms. Your King Louis -- God bless him, for he is a friend and
ally of Scotland -- but he lies here in this castle, or only rides
about from one fortified town to another; and gains cities and
provinces by politic embassies, and not in fair fighting. Now,
for me, I am of the Douglases' mind, who always kept the fields,
because they loved better to hear the lark sing than the mouse
squeak."

"Young man," said Maitre Pierre, "do not judge too rashly of
the actions of sovereigns. Louis seeks to spare the blood of his
subjects, and cares not for his own. He showed himself a man of
courage at Montl'hery."

"Ay, but that was some dozen years ago or more," answered the youth
-- "I should like to follow a master that would keep his honour
as bright as his shield, and always venture foremost in the very
throng of the battle."

"Why did you not tarry at Brussels, then, with the Duke of Burgundy?
He would put you in the way to have your bones broken every day;
and, rather than fail, would do the job for you himself -- especially
if he heard that you had beaten his forester."

"Very true," said Quentin; "my unhappy chance has shut that door
against me."

"Nay, there are plenty of daredevils abroad, with whom mad youngsters
may find service," said his adviser. "What think you, for example,
of William de la Marck?"

"What!" exclaimed Durward, "serve Him with the Beard -- serve the
Wild Boar of Ardennes -- a captain of pillagers and murderers, who
would take a man's life for the value of his gaberdine, and who
slays priests and pilgrims as if they were so many lance knights
and men at arms? It would be a blot on my father's scutcheon for
ever."

"Well, my young hot blood," replied Maitre Pierre, "if you hold
the Sanglier [Wild Boar] too unscrupulous, wherefore not follow
the young Duke of Gueldres?"

[Adolphus, son of Arnold and of Catherine de Bourbon. . . . He made
war against his father; in which unnatural strife he made the old
man prisoner, and used him with the most brutal violence, proceeding,
it is said, even to the length of striking him with his hand.
Arnold, in resentment of this usage, disinherited the unprincipled
wretch, and sold to Charles of Burgundy whatever rights he had over
the duchy of Gueldres and earldom of Zutphen. . . . S.]

"Follow the foul fiend as soon," said Quentin. "Hark in your ear
-- he is a burden too heavy for earth to carry -- hell gapes for
him! Men say that he keeps his own father imprisoned, and that he
has even struck him -- can you believe it?"

Maitre Pierre seemed somewhat disconcerted with the naive horror
with which the young Scotsman spoke of filial ingratitude, and he
answered, "You know not, young man, how short a while the relations
of blood subsist amongst those of elevated rank;" then changed the
tone of feeling in which he had begun to speak, and added, gaily,
"besides, if the Duke has beaten his father, I warrant you his
father hath beaten him of old, so it is but a clearing of scores."

"I marvel to hear you speak thus," said the Scot, colouring with
indignation; "gray hairs such as yours ought to have fitter subjects
for jesting. If the old Duke did beat his son in childhood, he beat
him not enough; for better he had died under the rod, than have
lived to make the Christian world ashamed that such a monster had
ever been baptized."

"At this rate," said Maitre Pierre, "as you weigh the characters
of each prince and leader, I think you had better become a captain
yourself; for where will one so wise find a chieftain fit to command
him?"

"You laugh at me, Maitre Pierre," said the youth, good humouredly,
"and perhaps you are right; but you have not named a man who is a
gallant leader, and keeps a brave party up here, under whom a man
might seek service well enough."

"I cannot guess whom you mean."

"Why, he that hangs like Mahomet's coffin [there is a tradition
that Mahomet's coffin is suspended in mid air Without any support,
the most generally accepted explanation being that the coffin is of
iron and is placed between two magnets] (a curse be upon Mahomet!)
between the two loadstones -- he that no man can call either French
or Burgundian, but who knows to hold the balance between them both,
and makes both of them fear and serve him, for as great princes as
they be."

"I cannot guess whom you mean," said Maitre Pierre, thoughtfully.

"Why, whom should I mean but the noble Louis de Luxembourg, Count
of Saint Paul, the High Constable of France? Yonder he makes his
place good with his gallant little army, holding his head as high
as either King Louis or Duke Charles, and balancing between them
like the boy who stands on the midst of a plank, while two others
are swinging on the opposite ends."

[This part of Louis XI's reign was much embarrassed by the intrigues
of the Constable Saint Paul, who affected independence, and carried
on intrigues with England, France, and Burgundy at the same time.
According to the usual fate of such variable politicians, the
Constable ended by drawing upon himself the animosity of all the
powerful neighbours whom he had in their turn amused and deceived.
He was delivered up by the Duke of Burgundy to the King of France,
tried, and hastily executed for treason, A. D. 1475. S.]

"He is in danger of the worst fall of the three," said Maitre
Pierre. "And hark ye, my young friend, you who hold pillaging such
a crime, do you know that your politic Count of Saint Paul was the
first who set the example of burning the country during the time of
war? and that before the shameful devastation which he committed,
open towns and villages, which made no resistance, were spared on
all sides?"

"Nay, faith," said Durward, "if that be the case, I shall begin to
think no one of these great men is much better than another, and
that a choice among them is but like choosing a tree to be hung
upon. But this Count de Saint Paul, this Constable, hath possessed
himself by clean conveyance of the town which takes its name from
my honoured saint and patron, Saint Quentin" [it was by his possession
of this town of Saint Quentin that the Constable was able to carry
on those political intrigues which finally cost him so dear. S.]
(here he crossed himself), "and methinks were I dwelling there, my
holy patron would keep some look out for me -- he has not so many
named after him as your more popular saints -- and yet he must have
forgotten me, poor Quentin Durward, his spiritual godson, since
he lets me go one day without food, and leaves me the next morning
to the harbourage of Saint Julian, and the chance courtesy of
a stranger, purchased by a ducking in the renowned river Cher, or
one of its tributaries."

"Blaspheme not the saints, my young friend," said Maitre Pierre.
"Saint Julian is the faithful patron of travellers; and, peradventure,
the blessed Saint Quentin hath done more and better for thee than
thou art aware of."

As he spoke, the door opened, and a girl rather above than under
fifteen years old, entered with a platter, covered with damask,
on which was placed a small saucer of the dried plums which have
always added to the reputation of Tours, and a cup of the curiously
chased plate which the goldsmiths of that city were anciently famous
for executing with a delicacy of workmanship that distinguished
them from the other cities of France, and even excelled the skill
of the metropolis. The form of the goblet was so elegant that
Durward thought not of observing closely whether the material was
of silver, or like what had been placed before himself, of a baser
metal, but so well burnished as to resemble the richer ore.

But the sight of the young person by whom this service was executed
attracted Durward's attention far more than the petty minutiae of
the duty which she performed.

He speedily made the discovery that a quantity of long black tresses,
which, in the maiden fashion of his own country, were unadorned
by any ornament, except a single chaplet lightly woven out of ivy
leaves, formed a veil around a countenance which, in its regular
features, dark eyes, and pensive expression, resembled that of
Melpomene [the Muse of tragedy], though there was a faint glow on
the cheek, and an intelligence on the lips and in the eye, which
made it seem that gaiety was not foreign to a countenance so
expressive, although it might not be its most habitual expression.
Quentin even thought he could discern that depressing circumstances
were the cause why a countenance so young and so lovely was graver
than belongs to early beauty; and as the romantic imagination of
youth is rapid in drawing conclusions from slight premises, he was
pleased to infer, from what follows, that the fate of this beautiful
vision was wrapped in silence and mystery.

"How now, Jacqueline?" said Maitre Pierre, when she entered the
apartment. "Wherefore this? Did I not desire that Dame Perette
should bring what I wanted? -- Pasques dieu! -- Is she, or does
she think herself, too good to serve me?"

"My kinswoman is ill at ease," answered Jacqueline, in a hurried
yet a humble tone, -- "ill at ease, and keeps her chamber."

"She keeps it alone, I hope!" replied Maitre Pierre, with some
emphasis; "I am vieux routier [one who is experienced in the ways
of the world], and none of those upon whom feigned disorders pass
for apologies."

Jacqueline turned pale, and even tottered at the answer of Maitre
Pierre; for it must be owned that his voice and looks, at all times
harsh, caustic, and unpleasing, had, when he expressed anger or
suspicion, an effect both sinister and alarming.

The mountain chivalry of Quentin Durward was instantly awakened,
and he hastened to approach Jacqueline and relieve her of the burden
she bore, and which she passively resigned to him, while, with a
timid and anxious look, she watched the countenance of the angry
burgess. It was not in nature to resist the piercing and pity
craving expression of her looks, and Maitre Pierre proceeded, not
merely with an air of diminished displeasure, but with as much
gentleness as he could assume in countenance and manner, "I blame
not thee, Jacqueline, and thou art too young to be, what it is pity
to think thou must be one day -- a false and treacherous thing,
like the rest of thy giddy sex. No man ever lived to man's estate,
but he had the opportunity to know you all [he (Louis) entertained
great contempt for the understanding, and not less for the character,
of the fair sex. S.]. Here is a Scottish cavalier will tell you
the same."

Jacqueline looked for an instant on the young stranger, as if to
obey Maitre Pierre, but the glance, momentary as it was, appeared
to Durward a pathetic appeal to him for support and sympathy; and
with the promptitude dictated by the feelings of youth, and the
romantic veneration for the female sex inspired by his education,
he answered hastily that he would throw down his gage to any
antagonist, of equal rank and equal age, who should presume to
say such a countenance as that which he now looked upon, could be
animated by other than the purest and the truest mind.

The young woman grew deadly pale, and cast an apprehensive glance
upon Maitre Pierre, in whom the bravado of the young gallant seemed
only to excite laughter, more scornful than applausive. Quentin,
whose second thoughts generally corrected the first, though sometimes
after they had found utterance, blushed deeply at having uttered
what might be construed into an empty boast in presence of an old
man of a peaceful profession; and as a sort of just and appropriate
penance, resolved patiently to submit to the ridicule which he had
incurred. He offered the cup and trencher to Maitre Pierre with a
blush in his cheek, and a humiliation of countenance which endeavoured
to disguise itself under an embarrassed smile.

"You are a foolish young man," said Maitre Pierre, "and know as
little of women as of princes, -- whose hearts," he said, crossing
himself devoutly, "God keeps in his right hand."

"And who keeps those of the women, then?" said Quentin, resolved,
if he could help it, not to be borne down by the assumed superiority
of this extraordinary old man, whose lofty and careless manner
possessed an influence over him of which he felt ashamed.

"I am afraid you must ask of them in another quarter," said Maitre
Pierre, composedly.

Quentin was again rebuffed, but not utterly disconcerted. "Surely,"
he said to himself, "I do not pay this same burgess of Tours all the
deference which I yield him, on account of the miserable obligation
of a breakfast, though it was a right good and substantial meal. Dogs
and hawks are attached by feeding only -- man must have kindness,
if you would bind him with the cords of affection and obligation.
But he is an extraordinary person; and that beautiful emanation
that is even now vanishing -- surely a thing so fair belongs not to
this mean place, belongs not even to the money gathering merchant
himself, though he seems to exert authority over her, as doubtless
he does over all whom chance brings within his little circle. It
is wonderful what ideas of consequence these Flemings and Frenchmen
attach to wealth -- so much more than wealth deserves, that I
suppose this old merchant thinks the civility I pay to his age is
given to his money. I a Scottish gentleman of blood and coat armour,
and he a mechanic of Tours!"

Such were the thoughts which hastily traversed the mind of young
Durward; while Maitre Pierre said with a smile, and at the same time
patting Jacqueline's heed, from which hung down her long tresses,
"This young man will serve me, Jacqueline, thou mayst withdraw. I
will tell thy negligent kinswoman she does ill to expose thee to
be gazed on unnecessarily."

"It was only to wait on you," said the maiden. "I trust you will
not be displeased with my kinswoman, since" --

"Pasques dieu!" said the merchant, interrupting her, but not harshly,
"do you bandy words with me, you brat, or stay you to gaze upon
the youngster here? -- Begone -- he is noble, and his services will
suffice me."

Jacqueline vanished; and so much was Quentin Durward interested
in her sudden disappearance that it broke his previous thread of
reflection, and he complied mechanically when Maitre Pierre said,
in the tone of one accustomed to be obeyed, as he threw himself
carelessly upon a large easy chair, "Place that tray beside me."

The merchant then let his dark eyebrows sink over his keen eyes so
that the last became scarce visible, or but shot forth occasionally
a quick and vivid ray, like those of the sun setting behind a dark
cloud, through which its beams are occasionally darted, but singly
and for an instant.

"That is a beautiful creature," said the old man at last, raising
his head, and looking steadily and firmly at Quentin, when he put
the question, -- "a lovely girl to be the servant of an auberge
[an inn]? She might grace the board of an honest burgess; but 'tis
a vile education, a base origin."

It sometimes happens that a chance shot will demolish a noble castle
in the air, and the architect on such occasions entertains little
goodwill towards him who fires it, although the damage on the
offender's part may be wholly unintentional. Quentin was disconcerted,
and was disposed to be angry -- he himself knew not why -- with
this old man, for acquainting him that this beautiful creature
was neither more nor less than what her occupation announced; the
servant of the auberge -- an upper servant, indeed, and probably
a niece of the landlord, or such like; but still a domestic, and
obliged to comply with the humour of the customers, and particularly
of Maitre Pierre, who probably had sufficiency of whims, and was
rich enough to ensure their being attended to.

The thought, the lingering thought, again returned on him, that he
ought to make the old gentleman understand the difference betwixt
their conditions, and call on him to mark, that, how rich soever
he might be, his wealth put him on no level with a Durward of Glen
Houlakin. Yet, whenever he looked on Maitre Pierre's countenance
with such a purpose, there was, notwithstanding the downcast look,
pinched features, and mean and miserly dress, something which
prevented the young man from asserting the superiority over the
merchant which he conceived himself to possess. On the contrary,
the oftener and more fixedly Quentin looked at him, the stronger
became his curiosity to know who or what this man actually was; and
he set him down internally for at least a Syndic or high magistrate
of Tours, or one who was, in some way or other, in the full habit
of exacting and receiving deference. Meantime, the merchant seemed
again sunk into a reverie, from which he raised himself only to
make the sign of the cross devoutly, and to eat some of the dried
fruit, with a morsel of biscuit. He then signed to Quentin to give
him the cup, adding, however, by way of question, as he presented
it, "You are noble, you say?"

"I surely am," replied the Scot, "if fifteen descents can make me
so -- so I told you before. But do not constrain yourself on that
account, Maitre Pierre -- I have always been taught it is the duty
of the young to assist the more aged."

"An excellent maxim," said the merchant, availing himself of the
youth's assistance in handing the cup, and filling it from a ewer
which seemed of the same materials with the goblet, without any of
those scruples in point of propriety which, perhaps, Quentin had
expected to excite.

"The devil take the ease and familiarity of this old mechanical
burgher!" said Durward once more to himself. "He uses the attendance
of a noble Scottish gentleman with as little ceremony as I would
that of a gillie from Glen Isla."

The merchant, in the meanwhile, having finished his cup of water,
said to his companion, "From the zeal with which you seem to relish
the Vin de Beaulne, I fancy you would not care much to pledge me
in this elemental liquor. But I have an elixir about me which can
convert even the rock water into the richest wines of France."

As he spoke, he took a large purse from his bosom, made of the fur
of the sea otter, and streamed a shower of small silver pieces into
the goblet, until the cup, which was but a small one, was more than
half full.

"You have reason to be more thankful, young man," said Maitre Pierre,
"both to your patron Saint Quentin and to Saint Julian, than you
seemed to be but now. I would advise you to bestow alms in their
name. Remain in this hostelry until you see your kinsman, Le
Balafre, who will be relieved from guard in the afternoon. I will
cause him to be acquainted that he may find you here, for I have
business in the Castle."

Quentin Durward would have said something to have excused himself
from accepting the profuse liberality of his new friend; but Maitre
Pierre, bending his dark brows, and erecting his stooping figure
into an attitude of more dignity than he had yet seen him assume,
said in a tone of authority, "No reply, young man, but do what you
are commanded."

With these words he left the apartment, making a sign, as he
departed, that Quentin must not follow him.

The young Scotsman stood astounded, and knew not what to think of
the matter. His first most natural, though perhaps not most dignified
impulse, drove him to peer into the silver goblet, which assuredly
was more than half full of silver pieces to the number of several
scores, of which perhaps Quentin had never called twenty his
own at one time during the course of his whole life. But could he
reconcile it to his dignity as a gentleman, to accept the money of
this wealthy plebeian? -- This was a trying question; for, though
he had secured a good breakfast, it was no great reserve upon
which to travel either back to Dijon, in case he chose to hazard
the wrath and enter the service of the Duke of Burgundy, or to Saint
Quentin, if he fixed on that of the Constable Saint Paul; for to
one of those powers, if not to the king of France, he was determined
to offer his services. He perhaps took the wisest resolution in the
circumstances, in resolving to be guided by the advice of his uncle;
and, in the meantime, he put the money into his velvet hawking pouch,
and called for the landlord of the house, in order to restore the
silver cup -- resolving, at the same time, to ask him some questions
about this liberal and authoritative merchant.

The man of the house appeared presently; and, if not more
communicative, was at least more loquacious, than he had been
formerly. He positively declined to take back the silver cup. It
was none of his, he said, but Maitre Pierre's, who had bestowed it
on his guest. He had, indeed, four silver hanaps of his own, which
had been left him by his grandmother, of happy memory, but no
more like the beautiful carving of that in his guest's hand, than
a peach was like a turnip -- that was one of the famous cups of
Tours, wrought by Martin Dominique, an artist who might brag all
Paris.

"And, pray, who is this Maitre Pierre," said Durward, interrupting
him, "who confers such valuable gifts on strangers?"

"Who is Maitre Pierre?" said the host, dropping the words as slowly
from his mouth as if he had been distilling them.

"Ay," said Durward, hastily and peremptorily, "who is this Maitre
Pierre, and why does he throw about his bounties in this fashion?
And who is the butcherly looking fellow whom he sent forward to
order breakfast?"

"Why, fair sir, as to who Maitre Pierre is, you should have asked
the question of himself; and for the gentleman who ordered breakfast
to be made ready, may God keep us from his closer acquaintance!"

"There is something mysterious in all this," said the young Scot.
"This Maitre Pierre tells me he is a merchant."

"And if he told you so," said the innkeeper, "surely he is a
merchant."

"What commodities does he deal in?"

"Oh, many a fair matter of traffic," said the host; "and especially
he has set up silk manufactories here which match those rich bales
that the Venetians bring from India and Cathay. You might see the
rows of mulberry trees as you came hither, all planted by Maitre
Pierre's command, to feed the silk worms."

"And that young person who brought in the confections, who is she,
my good friend?" said the guest.

"My lodger, sir, with her guardian, some sort of aunt or kinswoman,
as I think," replied the innkeeper.

"And do you usually employ your guests in waiting on each other?"
said Durward; "for I observed that Maitre Pierre would take nothing
from your hand, or that of your attendant."

"Rich men may have their fancies, for they can pay for them," said
the landlord; "this is not the first time Maitre Pierre has found
the true way to make gentlefolks serve at his beck."

The young Scotsman felt somewhat offended at the insinuation; but,
disguising his resentment, he asked whether he could be accommodated
with an apartment at this place for a day, and perhaps longer.

"Certainly," the innkeeper replied; "for whatever time he was
pleased to command it."

"Could he be permitted," he asked, "to pay his respects to the
ladies, whose fellow lodger he was about to become?"

The innkeeper was uncertain. "They went not abroad," he said, "and
received no one at home."

"With the exception, I presume, of Maitre Pierre?" said Durward.

"I am not at liberty to name any exceptions," answered the man,
firmly but respectfully.

Quentin, who carried the notions of his own importance pretty high,
considering how destitute he was of means to support them, being
somewhat mortified by the innkeeper's reply, did not hesitate to
avail himself of a practice common enough in that age. "Carry to
the ladies," he said, "a flask of vernat, with my humble duty; and
say that Quentin Durward, of the house of Glen Houlakin, a Scottish
cavalier of honour, and now their fellow lodger, desires the
permission to dedicate his homage to them in a personal interview."

The messenger departed, and returned, almost instantly, with the
thanks of the ladies, who declined the proffered refreshment, and,
with their acknowledgments to the Scottish cavalier, regretted
that, residing there in privacy, they could not receive his visit.

Quentin bit his lip, took a cup of the rejected vernat, which the
host had placed on the table. "By the mass, but this is a strange
country," said he to himself, "where merchants and mechanics exercise the
manners and munificence of nobles, and little travelling damsels,
who hold their court in a cabaret [a public house], keep their state
like disguised princesses! I will see that black browed maiden
again, or it will go hard, however;" and having formed this prudent
resolution, he demanded to be conducted to the apartment which he
was to call his own.

The landlord presently ushered him up a turret staircase, and
from thence along a gallery, with many doors opening from it, like
those of cells in a convent; a resemblance which our young hero,
who recollected, with much ennui, an early specimen of a monastic
life, was far from admiring. The host paused at the very end of
the gallery, selected a key from the large bunch which he carried
at his girdle, opened the door, and showed his guest the interior
of a turret chamber; small, indeed, but which, being clean and
solitary, and having the pallet bed and the few articles of furniture,
in unusually good order, seemed, on the whole, a little palace.

"I hope you will find your dwelling agreeable here, fair sir," said
the landlord. "I am bound to pleasure every friend of Maitre Pierre."

"Oh, happy ducking!" exclaimed Quentin Durward, cutting a caper on
the floor, so soon as his host had retired: "Never came good luck
in a better or a wetter form. I have been fairly deluged by my good
fortune."

As he spoke thus, he stepped towards the little window, which, as
the turret projected considerably from the principal line of the
building, not only commanded a very pretty garden of some extent,
belonging to the inn, but overlooked, beyond its boundary, a pleasant
grove of those very mulberry trees which Maitre Pierre was said
to have planted for the support of the silk worm. Besides, turning
the eye from these more remote objects, and looking straight along
the wall, the turret of Quentin was opposite to another turret,
and the little window at which he stood commanded a similar little
window in a corresponding projection of the building. Now, it would
be difficult for a man twenty years older than Quentin to say why
this locality interested him more than either the pleasant garden
or the grove of mulberry trees; for, alas! eyes which have been
used for forty years and upwards, look with indifference on little
turret windows, though the lattice be half open to admit the air,
while the shutter is half closed to exclude the sun, or perhaps a
too curious eye -- nay, even though there hang on the one side of
the casement a lute, partly mantled by a light veil of sea green
silk. But, at Durward's happy age, such accidents, as a painter
would call them, form sufficient foundation for a hundred airy
visions and mysterious conjectures, at recollection of which the
full grown man smiles while he sighs, and sighs while he smiles.

As it may be supposed that our friend Quentin wished to learn a
little more of his fair neighbour, the owner of the lute and veil
-- as it may be supposed he was at least interested to know whether
she might not prove the same whom he had seen in humble attendance
on Maitre Pierre, it must of course be understood that he did not
produce a broad staring visage and person in full front of his
own casement. Durward knew better the art of bird catching; and it
was to his keeping his person skilfully withdrawn on one side of
his window; while he peeped through the lattice, that he owed the
pleasure of seeing a white, round, beautiful arm take down the
instrument, and that his ears had presently after their share in
the reward of his dexterous management.

The maid of the little turret, of the veil, and of the lute sang
exactly such an air as we are accustomed to suppose flowed from
the lips of the high born dames of chivalry, when knights and
troubadours listened and languished. The words had neither so much
sense, wit, or fancy as to withdraw the attention from the music,
nor the music so much of art as to drown all feeling of the words.
The one seemed fitted to the other; and if the song had been recited
without the notes, or the air played without the words, neither
would have been worth noting. It is; therefore, scarcely fair to
put upon record lines intended not to be said or read, but only to
be sung. But such scraps of old poetry have always had a sort of
fascination for us; and as the tune is lost for ever unless Bishop
[Sir Henry Rowley, an English composer and professor of music at
Oxford in 1848. Among his most popular operas are Guy Mannering
and The Kniqht of Snowdon] happens to find the notes, or some lark
teaches Stephens [Catherine (1794-1882): a vocalist and actress
who created Susanna in the Marriage of Figaro, and various parts
in adaptation of Scott.] to warble the air -- we will risk our
credit, and the taste of the Lady of the Lute, by preserving the
verses, simple and even rude as they are:


Ah! County Guy, the hour is nigh,
The sun has left the lea,
The orange flower perfumes the bower,
The breeze is on the sea.
The lark, his lay who thrill'd all day,
Sits hush'd his partner nigh;
Breeze, bird, and flower confess the hour,
But where is County Guy?

The village maid steals through the shade,
Her shepherd's suit to hear;
To beauty shy, by lattice high,
Sings high born Cavalier.
The star of Love, all stars above,
Now reigns o'er earth and sky;
And high and low the influence know --
But where is County Guy?


Whatever the reader may think of this simple ditty, it had a
powerful effect on Quentin, when married to heavenly airs, and sung
by a sweet and melting voice, the notes mingling with the gentle
breezes which wafted perfumes from the garden, and the figure of
the songstress being so partially and obscurely visible as threw
a veil of mysterious fascination over the whole.

At the close of the air, the listener could not help showing himself
more boldly than he had yet done, in a rash attempt to see more
than he had yet been able to discover. The music instantly ceased
-- the casement was closed, and a dark curtain, dropped on the
inside, put a stop to all farther observation on the part of the
neighbour in the next turret.

Durward was mortified and surprised at the consequence of his
precipitance, but comforted himself with the hope that the Lady of
the Lute could neither easily forego the practice of an instrument
which seemed so familiar to her, nor cruelly resolve to renounce
the pleasures of fresh air and an open window for the churlish
purpose of preserving for her own exclusive ear the sweet sounds
which she created. There came, perhaps, a little feeling of
personal vanity to mingle with these consolatory reflections. If,
as he shrewdly suspected, there was a beautiful dark tressed damsel
inhabitant of the one turret, he could not but be conscious that
a handsome, young, roving, bright locked gallant, a cavalier of
fortune, was the tenant of the other; and romances, those prudent
instructors, had taught his youth that if damsels were shy, they were
yet neither void of interest nor of curiosity in their neighbours'
affairs.

Whilst Quentin was engaged in these sage reflections, a sort of
attendant or chamberlain of the inn informed him that a cavalier
desired to speak with him below.


CHAPTER V: THE MAN AT ARMS

Full of strange oaths, and bearded like the pard,
Seeking the bubble reputation
Even in the cannon's mouth.

AS YOU LIKE IT


The cavalier who awaited Quentin Durward's descent into the apartment
where he had breakfasted, was one of those of whom Louis XI had
long since said that they held in their hands the fortune of France,
as to them were intrusted the direct custody and protection of the
royal person.

Charles the Sixth had instituted this celebrated body, the Archers,
as they were called, of the Scottish Bodyguard, with better reason
than can generally be alleged for establishing round the throne
a guard of foreign and mercenary troops. The divisions which tore
from his side more than half of France, together with the wavering
and uncertain faith of the nobility who yet acknowledged his cause,
rendered it impolitic and unsafe to commit his personal safety to
their keeping. The Scottish nation was the hereditary enemy of the
English, and the ancient, and, as it seemed, the natural allies
of France. They were poor, courageous, faithful; their ranks were
sure to be supplied from the superabundant population of their
own country, than which none in Europe sent forth more or bolder
adventurers. Their high claims of descent, too, gave them a good
title to approach the person of a monarch more closely than other
troops, while the comparative smallness of their numbers prevented
the possibility of their mutinying, and becoming masters where they
ought to be servants.

On the other hand, the French monarchs made it their policy to
conciliate the affections of this select band of foreigners, by
allowing them honorary privileges and ample pay, which last most
of them disposed of with military profusion in supporting their
supposed rank. Each of them ranked as a gentleman in place and honour;
and their near approach to the King's person gave them dignity in
their own eyes, as well as importance in those of the nation of
France. They were sumptuously armed, equipped, and mounted; and
each was entitled to allowance for a squire, a valet, a page; and
two yeomen, one of whom was termed coutelier, from the large knife
which he wore to dispatch those whom in the melee his master had
thrown to the ground. With these followers, and a corresponding
equipage, an Archer of the Scottish Guard was a person of quality
and importance; and vacancies being generally filled up by those
who had been trained in the service as pages or valets, the cadets
of the best Scottish families were often sent to serve under some
friend and relation in those capacities, until a chance of preferment
should occur.

The coutelier and his companion, not being noble or capable of
this promotion, were recruited from persons of inferior quality;
but as their pay and appointments were excellent, their masters
were easily able to select from among their wandering countrymen the
strongest and most courageous to wait upon them in these capacities.

Ludovic Lesly, or as we shall more frequently call him, Le Balafre,
by which name he was generally known in France, was upwards of six
feet high, robust, strongly compacted in person, and hard favoured
in countenance, which latter attribute was much increased by a large
and ghastly scar, which, beginning on his forehead, and narrowly
missing his right eye, had laid bare the cheek bone, and descended
from thence almost to the tip of his ear, exhibiting a deep seam,
which was sometimes scarlet, sometimes purple, sometimes blue,
and sometimes approaching to black; but always hideous, because at
variance with the complexion of the face in whatever state it chanced
to be, whether agitated or still, flushed with unusual passion, or
in its ordinary state of weather-beaten and sunburnt swarthiness.

His dress and arms were splendid. He wore his national bonnet,
crested with a tuft of feathers, and with a Virgin Mary of massive
silver for a brooch. These brooches had been presented to the
Scottish Guard, in consequence of the King, in one of his fits of
superstitions piety, having devoted the swords of his guard to the
service of the Holy Virgin, and, as some say, carried the matter
so far as to draw out a commission to Our Lady as their Captain
General. The Archer's gorget, arm pieces, and gauntlets, were of
the finest steel, curiously inlaid with silver, and his hauberk, or
shirt of mail, was as clear and bright as the frostwork of a winter
morning upon fern or brier. He wore a loose surcoat or cassock of
rich blue velvet, open at the sides like that of a herald, with a
large white St. Andrew's cross of embroidered silver bisecting it
both before and behind; his knees and legs were protected by hose
of mail and shoes of steel; a broad, strong poniard (called the
Mercy of God), hung by his right side; the baldric for his two
handed sword, richly embroidered, hung upon his left shoulder; but
for convenience he at present carried in his hand that unwieldy
weapon which the rules of his service forbade him to lay aside.

[St. Andrew was the first called to apostleship. He made many
converts to Christianity and was finally crucified on a cross of
peculiar form, which has since been called the St. Andrew's cross.
Certain of his relics were brought to Scotland in the fourth century,
and he has since that time been honoured as the patron saint of
that country. He is also the patron saint of the Burgundian Order,
the Golden Fleece.]

Quentin Durward -- though, like the Scottish youth of the period,
he had been early taught to look upon arms and war -- thought he
had never seen a more martial looking, or more completely equipped
and accomplished man at arms than now saluted him in the person of
his mother's brother, called Ludovic with the Scar, or Le Balafre;
yet he could not but shrink a little from the grim expression of
his countenance, while, with its rough moustaches, he brushed first
the one and then the other cheek of his kinsman, welcomed his nephew
to France, and, in the same breath, asked what news from Scotland.

"Little good tidings, dear uncle," replied young Durward; "but I
am glad that you know me so readily."

"I would have known thee, boy, in the landes of Bourdeaux, had I met
thee marching there like a crane on a pair of stilts [the crutches
or stilts which in Scotland are used to pass rivers. They are
employed by the peasantry of the country near Bordeaux to traverse
those deserts of loose sand called Landes. S]. But sit thee down --
sit thee down -- if there is sorrow to hear of, we will have wine
to make us bear it. -- Ho! old Pinch Measure, our good host, bring
us of thy best, and that in an instant."

The well known sound of the Scottish French was as familiar in
the taverns near Plessis as that of the Swiss French in the modern
guinguettes [common inns] of Paris; and promptly -- ay, with the
promptitude of fear and precipitation, was it heard and obeyed. A
flagon of champagne stood before them, of which the elder took a
draught, while the nephew helped himself only to a moderate sip to
acknowledge his uncle's courtesy, saying, in excuse, that he had
already drunk wine that morning.

"That had been a rare good apology in the mouth of thy sister, fair
nephew," said Le Balafre; "you must fear the wine pot less, if you
would wear beard on your face, and write yourself soldier. But, come
-- come -- unbuckle your Scottish mail bag -- give us the news of
Glen Houlakin -- How doth my sister?"

"Dead, fair uncle," answered Quentin, sorrowfully.

"Dead!" echoed his uncle, with a tone rather marked by wonder than
sympathy, -- "why, she was five years younger than I, and I was
never better in my life. Dead! the thing is impossible. I have
never had so much as a headache, unless after revelling out of my
two or three days' furlough with the brethren of the joyous science
-- and my poor sister is dead -- And your father, fair nephew, hath
he married again?"

And, ere the youth could reply, he read the answer in his surprise
at the question, and said, "What! no -- I would have sworn that
Allan Durward was no man to live without a wife. He loved to have
his house in order -- loved to look on a pretty woman too; and was
somewhat strict in life withal -- matrimony did all this for him.
Now, I care little about these comforts, and I can look on a pretty
woman without thinking on the sacrament of wedlock -- I am scarce
holy enough for that."

"Alas! dear uncle, my mother was left a widow a year since, when
Glen Houlakin was harried by the Ogilvies. My father, and my two
uncles, and my two elder brothers, and seven of my kinsmen, and
the harper, and the tasker, and some six more of our people, were
killed in defending the castle, and there is not a burning hearth
or a standing stone in all Glen Houlakin."

"Cross of Saint Andrew!" said Le Balafre; "that is what I call an
onslaught! Ay, these Ogilvies were ever but sorry neighbours to
Glen Houlakin -- an evil chance it was; but fate of war -- fate
of war. -- When did this mishap befall, fair nephew?" With that he
took a deep draught of wine, and shook his head with much solemnity,
when his kinsman replied that his family had been destroyed upon
the festival of Saint Jude [October 28] last bypast.

"Look ye there," said the soldier; "I said it was all chance --
on that very day I and twenty of my comrades carried the Castle
of Roche Noir by storm, from Amaury Bras de fer, a captain of
free lances, whom you must have heard of. I killed him on his own
threshold, and gained as much gold as made this fair chain, which
was once twice as long as it now is -- and that minds me to send
part of it on an holy errand. -- Here, Andrew -- Andrew!"

Andrew, his yeoman, entered, dressed like the Archer himself in
the general equipment, but without the armour for the limbs -- that
of the body more coarsely manufactured -- his cap without a plume,
and his cassock made of serge, or ordinary cloth, instead of rich
velvet. Untwining his gold chain from his neck, Balafre twisted
off, with his firm and strong set teeth, about four inches from
the one end of it, and said to his attendant, "Here, Andrew, carry
this to my gossip, jolly Father Boniface, the monk of St. Martin's;
greet him well from me, by the same token that he could not say God
save ye when we last parted at midnight. -- Tell my gossip that my
brother and sister, and some others of my house, are all dead and
gone, and I pray him to say masses for their souls as far as the
value of these links will carry him, and to do on trust what else
may be necessary to free them from Purgatory. And hark ye, as they
were just living people, and free from all heresy, it may be that
they are well nigh out of limbo already, so that a little matter
may have them free of the fetlocks; and in that case, look ye, ye
will say I desire to take out the balance of the gold in curses
upon a generation called the Ogilvies of Angus Shire, in what way
soever the church may best come at them. You understand all this,
Andrew?"

The coutelier nodded.

"Then look that none of the links find their way to the wine house
ere the monk touches them; for if it so chance, thou shalt taste
of saddle girth and stirrup leather till thou art as raw as Saint
Bartholomew [he was flayed alive. In Michael Angelo's Last Judgment
he is represented as holding his skin in his hand] -- Yet hold, I
see thy eye has fixed on the wine measure, and thou shalt not go
without tasting."

So saying, he filled him a brimful cup, which the coutelier drank
off, and retired to do his patron's commission.

"And now, fair nephew, let us hear what was your own fortune in
this unhappy matter."

"I fought it out among those who were older and stouter than I
was, till we were all brought down," said Durward, "and I received
a cruel wound."

"Not a worse slash than I received ten years since myself," said
Le Balafre. "Look at this, now, my fair nephew," tracing the dark
crimson gash which was imprinted on his face. -- "An Ogilvy's sword
never ploughed so deep a furrow."

"They ploughed deep enough," answered Quentin, sadly, "but they
were tired at last, and my mother's entreaties procured mercy for
me, when I was found to retain some spark of life; but although
a learned monk of Aberbrothik, who chanced to be our guest at the
fatal time, and narrowly escaped being killed in the fray, was
permitted to bind my wounds, and finally to remove me to a place
of safety, it was only on promise, given both by my mother and him,
that I should become a monk."

"A monk!" exclaimed the uncle. "Holy Saint Andrew! that is what
never befell me. No one, from my childhood upwards, ever so much
as dreamed of making me a monk. And yet I wonder when I think of
it; for you will allow that, bating the reading and writing, which
I could never learn, and the psalmody, which I could never endure,
and the dress, which is that of a mad beggar -- Our Lady forgive
me! [here he crossed himself] and their fasts, which do not suit my
appetite, I would have made every whit as good a monk as my little
gossip at St. Martin's yonder. But I know not why, none ever proposed
the station to me. -- Oh, so, fair nephew, you were to be a monk,
then -- and wherefore, I pray you?"

"That my father's house might be ended, either in the cloister or
in the tomb," answered Quentin, with deep feeling.

"I see," answered his uncle -- "I comprehend. Cunning rogues --
very cunning! They might have been cheated, though; for, look ye,
fair nephew, I myself remember the canon Robersart who had taken
the vows and afterwards broke out of cloister, and became a captain
of Free Companions. He had a mistress, the prettiest wench I ever
saw, and three as beautiful children. -- There is no trusting
monks, fair nephew -- no trusting them -- they may become soldiers
and fathers when you least expect it -- but on with your tale."

"I have little more to tell," said Durward, "except that, considering
my poor mother to be in some degree a pledge for me, I was induced
to take upon me the dress of a novice, and conformed to the cloister
rules, and even learned to read and write."

"To read and write!" exclaimed Le Balafre, who was one of that sort
of people who think all knowledge is miraculous which chances to
exceed their own. "To write, say'st thou, and to read! I cannot
believe it -- never Durward could write his name that ever I heard
of, nor Lesly either. I can answer for one of them -- I can no
more write than I can fly. Now, in Saint Louis's name, how did they
teach it you?"

"It was troublesome at first," said Durward, "but became more
easy by use; and I was weak with my wounds, and loss of blood, and
desirous to gratify my preserver, Father Peter, and so I was the
more easily kept to my task. But after several months' languishing,
my good, kind mother died, and as my health was now fully restored,
I communicated to my benefactor, who was also Sub Prior of the
convent, my reluctance to take the vows; and it was agreed between
us, since my vocation lay not to the cloister, that I should be
sent out into the world to seek my fortune, and that to save the Sub
Prior from the anger of the Ogilvies, my departure should have the
appearance of flight; and to colour it I brought off the Abbot's
hawk with me. But I was regularly dismissed, as will appear from
the hand and seal of the Abbot himself."

"That is right, that is well," said his uncle. "Our King cares
little what other theft thou mayst have made, but hath a horror at
anything like a breach of the cloister. And I warrant thee, thou
hadst no great treasure to bear thy charges?"

"Only a few pieces of silver," said the youth; "for to you, fair
uncle, I must make a free confession."

"Alas!" replied Le Balafre, "that is hard. Now, though I am never
a hoarder of my pay, because it doth ill to bear a charge about
one in these perilous times, yet I always have (and I would advise
you to follow my example) some odd gold chain, or bracelet, or
carcanet, that serves for the ornament of my person, and can at
need spare a superfluous link or two, or it may be a superfluous
stone for sale, that can answer any immediate purpose. But you may
ask, fair kinsman, how you are to come by such toys as this." (He
shook his chain with complacent triumph.) "They hang not on every
bush -- they grow not in the fields like the daffodils, with whose
stalks children make knights' collars. What then? -- you may get
such where I got this, in the service of the good King of France,
where there is always wealth to be found, if a man has but the
heart to seek it at the risk of a little life or so."

"I understood," said Quentin, evading a decision to which he felt
himself as yet scarcely competent, "that the Duke of Burgundy keeps
a more noble state than the King of France, and that there is more
honour to be won under his banners -- that good blows are struck
there, and deeds of arms done; while the most Christian King, they
say, gains his victories by his ambassadors' tongues."

"You speak like a foolish boy, fair nephew," answered he with the
scar; "and yet, I bethink me, when I came hither I was nearly as
simple: I could never think of a King but what I supposed him either
sitting under the high deas, and feasting amid his high vassals
and Paladins, eating blanc mange, with a great gold crown upon his
head, or else charging at the head of his troops like Charlemagne
in the romaunts, or like Robert Bruce or William Wallace in our
own true histories, such as Barbour and the Minstrel. Hark in thine
ear, man -- it is all moonshine in the water. Policy -- policy does
it all. But what is policy, you will say? It is an art this French
King of ours has found out, to fight with other men's swords, and
to wage his soldiers out of other men's purses. Ah! it is the wisest
prince that ever put purple on his back -- and yet he weareth not
much of that neither -- I see him often go plainer than I would
think befitted me to do."

[Charlemagne (742?-814): King of the Franks and crowned Emperor
of the Holy Roman Empire in 800. His kingdom included Germany and
France, the greater part of Italy, and Spain as far as the Ebro. As
Emperor of the West he bore the title Caesar Augustus. He established
churches and monasteries, and encouraged arts and learning. He
figures largely in mediaeval minstrelsy, where the achievements of
his knights, or paladins, rival those of Arthur's court.]

[Robert Bruce: the grandson of Robert Bruce, the competitor with John
Baliol for the Scottish throne. He defeated the English forces at
Bannockburn in 1314, and thus secured the independence of Scotland,
an independence which lasted until the two kingdoms were united
under one crown in 1707.]

[William Wallace: another brave Scottish leader in the war for
independence against Edward I of England. Wallace was betrayed
in 1305 and carried to London, where he was cruelly executed as a
traitor.]

[Barbour: an eminent Scottish poet contemporary with Chaucer. His
principal work, The Bruce, records the life and deeds of Robert
Bruce.]

[Harry the Minstrel or "Blind Harry" was the author of a poem on
the life and deeds of Wallace which was held in peculiar reverence
by the Scotch people.]

"But you meet not my exception, fair uncle," answered young Durward;
"I would serve, since serve I must in a foreign land, somewhere
where a brave deed, were it my hap to do one, might work me a name."

"I understand you, my fair nephew," said the royal man at arms, "I
understand you passing well; but you are unripe in these matters.
The Duke of Burgundy is a hot brained, impetuous, pudding headed,
iron ribbed dare all. He charges at the head of his nobles and
native knights, his liegemen of Artois and Hainault; think you, if
you were there, or if I were there myself, that we could be much
farther forward than the Duke and all his brave nobles of his own
land? If we were not up with them, we had a chance to be turned on
the Provost Marshal's hands for being slow in making to; if we were
abreast of them, all would be called well and we might be thought
to have deserved our pay; and grant that I was a spear's length
or so in the front, which is both difficult and dangerous in such
a melee where all do their best, why, my lord Duke says in his
Flemish tongue, when he sees a good blow struck, 'Ha! gut getroffen
[well struck]! a good lance -- a brave Scot -- give him a florin
to drink our health;' but neither rank, nor lands, nor treasures
come to the stranger in such a service -- all goes to the children
of the soil."

"And where should it go, in Heaven's name, fair uncle?" demanded
young Durward.

"To him that protects the children of the soil," said Balafre,
drawing up his gigantic height. "Thus says King Louis 'My good
French peasant -- mine honest Jacques Bonhomme, get you to your
tools, your plough and your harrow, your pruning knife and your hoe
-- here is my gallant Scot that will fight for you, and you shall
only have the trouble to pay him. And you, my most serene duke, my
illustrious count, and my most mighty marquis, e'en rein up your
fiery courage till it is wanted, for it is apt to start out of the
course, and to hurt its master; here are my companies of ordnance
-- here are my French Guards -- here are, above all, my Scottish
Archers, and mine honest Ludovic with the Scar, who will fight,
as well or better than you, will fight with all that undisciplined
valour which, in your father's time, lost Cressy and Azincour [two
famous victories in the Hundred Years' War gained over the French
by the English, near the towns of Crecy and Agincourt, in 1346 and
1415. See Shakespeare's Henry V for a description of the latter.].
Now, see you not in which of these states a cavalier of fortune
holds the highest rank, and must come to the highest honour?"

"I think I understand you, fair uncle," answered the nephew; "but,
in my mind, honour cannot be won where there is no risk. Sure,
this is -- I pray pardon me -- an easy and almost slothful life,
to mount guard round an elderly man whom no one thinks of harming,
to spend summer day and winter night up in yonder battlements, and
shut up all the while in iron cages, for fear you should desert
your posts -- uncle, uncle, it is but a hawk upon his perch, who
is never carried out to the fields!"

"Now, by Saint Martin of Tours, the boy has some spirit! a right
touch of the Lesly in him; much like myself, though always with a
little more folly in it. Hark ye, youth -- Long live the King of
France! -- scarce a day but there is some commission in hand, by
which some of his followers may win both coin and credit. Think not
that the bravest and most dangerous deeds are done by daylight. I
could tell you of some, as scaling castles, making prisoners, and
the like, where one who shall be nameless hath run higher risk and
gained greater favour than any desperado in the train of desperate
Charles of Burgundy. And if it please his Majesty to remain behind,
and in the background, while such things are doing, he hath the
more leisure of spirit to admire, and the more liberality of hand
to reward the adventurers, whose dangers, perhaps, and whose feats
of arms, he can better judge of than if he had personally shared
them. Oh, 't is a sagacious and most politic monarch!"

His nephew paused, and then said, in a low but impressive tone of
voice, "the good Father Peter used often to teach me there might
be much danger in deeds by which little glory was acquired. I need
not say to you, fair uncle, that I do in course suppose that these
secret commissions must needs be honourable."

"For whom or for what take you me, fair nephew," said Balafre,
somewhat sternly; "I have not been trained, indeed, in the cloister,
neither can I write or read. But I am your mother's brother; I am
a loyal Lesly. Think you that I am like to recommend to you anything
unworthy? The best knight in France, Du Guesclin himself, if he were
alive again, might be proud to number my deeds among his achievements."

"I cannot doubt your warranty, fair uncle," said the youth; "you
are the only adviser my mishap has left me. But is it true, as
fame says, that this King keeps a meagre Court here at his Castle
of Plessis? No repair of nobles or courtiers, none of his grand
feudatories in attendance, none of the high officers of the crown;
half solitary sports, shared only with the menials of his household;
secret councils, to which only low and obscure men are invited;
rank and nobility depressed, and men raised from the lowest origin
to the kingly favour -- all this seems unregulated, resembles not
the manners of his father, the noble Charles, who tore from the
fangs of the English lion this more than half conquered kingdom of
France."

"You speak like a giddy child," said Le Balafre, "and even as a
child, you harp over the same notes on a new string. Look you: if
the King employs Oliver Dain, his barber, to do what Oliver can do
better than any peer of them all, is not the kingdom the gainer?
If he bids his stout Provost Marshal, Tristan, arrest such or such
a seditious burgher, take off such or such a turbulent noble, the
deed is done, and no more of it; when, were the commission given
to a duke or peer of France, he might perchance send the King back
a defiance in exchange. If, again, the King pleases to give to plain
Ludovic le Balafre a commission which he will execute, instead of
employing the High Constable, who would perhaps betray it, doth it
not show wisdom? Above all, doth not a monarch of such conditions
best suit cavaliers of fortune, who must go where their services
are most highly prized, and most frequently in demand? -- No, no,
child, I tell thee Louis knows how to choose his confidants, and
what to charge them with; suiting, as they say, the burden to each
man's back. He is not like the King of Castile, who choked with
thirst, because the great butler was not beside to hand his cup.
-- But hark to the bell of St. Martin's! I must hasten, back to the
Castle -- Farewell -- make much of yourself, and at eight tomorrow
morning present yourself before the drawbridge, and ask the sentinel
for me. Take heed you step not off the straight and beaten path in
approaching the portal! There are such traps and snap haunches as
may cost you a limb, which you will sorely miss. You shall see the
King, and learn to judge him for yourself -- farewell."

So saying, Balafre hastily departed, forgetting, in his hurry, to
pay for the wine he had called for, a shortness of memory incidental to
persons of his description, and which his host, overawed perhaps by
the nodding bonnet and ponderous two handed sword, did not presume
to use any efforts for correcting. It might have been expected
that, when left alone, Durward would have again betaken himself to
his turret, in order to watch for the repetition of those delicious
sounds which had soothed his morning reverie. But that was a chapter
of romance, and his uncle's conversation had opened to him a page
of the real history of life. It was no pleasing one, and for the
present the recollections and reflections which it excited were
qualified to overpower other thoughts, and especially all of a
light and soothing nature.

Quentin resorted to a solitary walk along the banks of the rapid
Cher, having previously inquired of his landlord for one which he
might traverse without fear of disagreeable interruption from snares
and pitfalls, and there endeavoured to compose his turmoiled and
scattered thoughts, and consider his future motions, upon which
his meeting with his uncle had thrown some dubiety.


CHAPTER VI: THE BOHEMIANS

Sae rantingly, sae wantingly,
Sae dantingly gaed he,
He play'd a spring and danced a round
Beneath the gallows tree!

OLD SONG


[The Bohemians: In . . . Guy Mannering the reader will find some
remarks on the gipsies as they are found in Scotland. Their first
appearance in Europe took place in the beginning of the fifteenth
century. The account given by these singular people was, that it was
appointed to them, as a penance, to travel for a certain number of
years. Their appearance, however, and manners, strongly contradicted
the allegation that they travelled from any religious motive. Their
dress and accoutrements were at once showy and squalid; those who
acted as captains and leaders of any horde, . . . were arrayed in
dresses of the most showy colours, such as scarlet or light green;
were well mounted; assumed the title of dukes and counts, and
affected considerable consequence. The rest of the tribe were most
miserable in their diet and apparel, fed without hesitation on
animals which had died of disease, and were clad in filthy and scanty
rags. . . . Their complexion was positively Eastern, approaching
to that of the Hindoos. Their manners were as depraved as their
appearance was poor and beggarly. The men were in general thieves,
and the women of the most abandoned character. The few arts which
they studied with success were of a slight and idle, though ingenious
description. They practised working in iron, but never upon any
great scale. Many were good sportsmen, good musicians. . . . But
their ingenuity never ascended into industry. . . . Their pretensions
to read fortunes, by palmistry and by astrology, acquired them sometimes
respect, but oftener drew them under suspicion as sorcerers; the
universal accusation that they augmented their horde by stealing
children, subjected them to doubt and execration. . . . The pretension
set up by these wanderers, of being pilgrims in the act of penance,
although it . . . in many instances obtained them protection from
the governments of the countries through which they travelled,
was afterwards totally disbelieved, and they were considered
as incorrigible rogues and vagrants. . . . A curious and accurate
account of their arrival in France is quoted by Pasquier "On August
27th, 1427, came to Paris twelve penitents, . . . viz. a duke, an
earl, and ten men, all on horseback, and calling themselves good
Christians. They were of Lower Egypt, and gave out that, not long
before, the Christians had subdued their country, and obliged them
to embrace Christianity on pain of being put to death. Those who
were baptized were great lords in their own country, and had a king
and queen there. Soon after their conversion, the Saracens overran
the country, and obliged them to renounce Christianity. When the
Emperor of Germany, the King of Poland, and other Christian princes
heard of this, they fell upon them, and obliged the whole of them,
both great and small, to quit the country, and go to the Pope at
Rome, who enjoined them seven years' penance to wander over the
world, without lying in a bed. They had been wandering five years
when they came to Paris first. . . . Nearly all of them had their
ears bored, and wore two silver rings in each. . . . The men were
black, their hair curled; the women remarkably black, their only
clothes a large old duffle garment, tied over the shoulders with a
cloth or cord, and under it a miserable rocket; . . . notwithstanding
their poverty, there were among them women who, by looking into
people's hands, told their fortunes, and what was worse, they
picked people's pockets of their money, and got it into their own,
by telling these things through airy magic, et cetera." Pasquier
remarks upon this singular journal that however the story of
a penance savours of a trick, these people wandered up and down
France, under the eye, and with the knowledge, of the magistrates,
for more than a hundred years; and it was not till 1561, that
a sentence of banishment was passed against them in that kingdom.
The arrival of the Egyptians (as these singular people were called)
in various parts of Europe, corresponds with the period in which
Timur or Tamerlane invaded Hindostan, affording its natives the
choice between the Koran and death. There can be little doubt that
these wanderers consisted originally of the Hindostanee tribes,
who, displaced, and flying from the sabres of the Mohammedans,
undertook this species of wandering life, without well knowing
whither they were going. When they are in closest contact with
the ordinary peasants around them, they still keep their language
a mystery. There is little doubt, however, that it is a dialect of
the Hindostanee, from the specimens produced by Grellman, Hoyland,
and others, who have written on the subject. S.]

The manner in which Quentin Durward had been educated was not of a
kind to soften the heart, or perhaps to improve the moral feeling.
He, with the rest of his family, had been trained to the chase
as an amusement, and taught to consider war as their only serious
occupation, and that it was the great duty of their lives stubbornly
to endure, and fiercely to retaliate, the attacks of their feudal
enemies, by whom their race had been at last almost annihilated.
And yet there mixed with these feuds a spirit of rude chivalry,
and even courtesy, which softened their rigour; so that revenge,
their only justice, was still prosecuted with some regard to humanity
and generosity. The lessons of the worthy old monk, better attended
to, perhaps, during a long illness and adversity, than they might
have been in health and success, had given young Durward still
farther insight into the duties of humanity towards others; and
considering the ignorance of the period, the general prejudices
entertained in favour of a military life, and the manner in which
he himself had been bred, the youth was disposed to feel more
accurately the moral duties incumbent on his station than was usual
at the time.

He reflected on his interview with his uncle with a sense of
embarrassment and disappointment. His hopes had been high; for although
intercourse by letters was out of the question, yet a pilgrim, or
an adventurous trafficker, or a crippled soldier sometimes brought
Lesly's name to Glen Houlakin, and all united in praising his
undaunted courage, and his success in many petty enterprises which
his master had intrusted to him. Quentin's imagination had filled
up the sketch in his own way, and assimilated his successful and
adventurous uncle (whose exploits probably lost nothing in the telling)
to some of the champions and knights errant of whom minstrels sung
and who won crowns and kings' daughters by dint of sword and lance.
He was now compelled to rank his kinsman greatly lower in the scale
of chivalry; but, blinded by the high respect paid to parents and
those who approach that character -- moved by every early prejudice
in his favour -- inexperienced besides, and passionately attached
to his mother's memory, he saw not, in the only brother of that
dear relation, the character he truly held, which was that of an
ordinary mercenary soldier, neither much worse nor greatly better
than many of the same profession whose presence added to the
distracted state of France.

Without being wantonly cruel, Le Balafre was, from habit, indifferent
to human life and human suffering; he was profoundly ignorant,
greedy of booty, unscrupulous how he acquired it, and profuse in
expending it on the gratification of his passions. The habit of
attending exclusively to his own wants and interests had converted
him into one of the most selfish animals in the world; so that he
was seldom able, as the reader may have remarked, to proceed far
in any subject without considering how it applied to himself, or,
as it is called, making the case his own, though not upon feelings
connected with the golden rule, but such as were very different.
To this must be added that the narrow round of his duties and his
pleasures had gradually circumscribed his thoughts, hopes, and
wishes, and quenched in a great measure the wild spirit of honour,
and desire of distinction in arms, by which his youth had been once
animated.

Balafre was, in short, a keen soldier, hardened, selfish, and
narrow minded; active and bold in the discharge of his duty, but
acknowledging few objects beyond it, except the formal observance
of a careless devotion, relieved by an occasional debauch with
brother Boniface, his comrade and confessor. Had his genius been
of a more extended character, he would probably have been promoted
to some important command, for the King, who knew every soldier
of his bodyguard personally, reposed much confidence in Balafre's
courage and fidelity; and besides, the Scot had either wisdom or
cunning enough perfectly to understand, and ably to humour, the
peculiarities of that sovereign. Still, however, his capacity was
too much limited to admit of his rising to higher rank, and though
smiled on and favoured by Louis on many occasions, Balafre continued
a mere Life Guardsman, or Scottish Archer.

Without seeing the full scope of his uncle's character, Quentin
felt shocked at his indifference to the disastrous extirpation of
his brother in law's whole family, and could not help being surprised,
moreover, that so near a relative had not offered him the assistance
of his purse, which, but for the generosity of Maitre Pierre, he
would have been under the necessity of directly craving from him.
He wronged his uncle, however, in supposing that this want of
attention to his probable necessities was owing to avarice. Not
precisely needing money himself at that moment, it had not occurred
to Balafre that his nephew might be in exigencies; otherwise, he
held a near kinsman so much a part of himself, that he would have
provided for the weal of the living nephew, as he endeavoured to do
for that of his deceased sister and her husband. But whatever was
the motive, the neglect was very unsatisfactory to young Durward,
and he wished more than once he had taken service with the Duke
of Burgundy before he quarrelled with his forester. "Whatever had
then become of me," he thought to himself, "I should always have
been able to keep up my spirits with the reflection that I had, in
case of the worst, a stout back friend in this uncle of mine. But
now I have seen him, and, woe worth him, there has been more help
in a mere mechanical stranger, than I have found in my own mother's
brother, my countryman and a cavalier! One would think the slash,
that has carved all comeliness out of his face, had let at the same
time every drop of gentle blood out of his body."

Durward now regretted he had not had an opportunity to mention
Maitre Pierre to Le Balafre, in the hope of obtaining some farther
account of that personage; but his uncle's questions had followed
fast on each other, and the summons of the great bell of Saint
Martin of Tours had broken off their conference rather suddenly.
That old man, he thought to himself, was crabbed and dogged in
appearance, sharp and scornful in language, but generous and liberal
in his actions; and such a stranger is worth a cold kinsman.

"What says our old Scottish proverb? -- 'Better kind fremit, than
fremit kindred.' ['Better kind strangers than estranged kindred.'
The motto is engraved on a dirk, belonging to a person who had but
too much reason to choose such a device. It was left by him to my
father. The weapon is now in my possession. S.] I will find out that
man, which, methinks, should be no difficult task, since he is so
wealthy as mine host bespeaks him. He will give me good advice for
my governance, at least; and if he goes to strange countries, as
many such do, I know not but his may be as adventurous a service
as that of those Guards of Louis."

As Quentin framed this thought, a whisper from those recesses of the
heart in which lies much that the owner does not know of, or will
not acknowledge willingly, suggested that, perchance, the lady of
the turret, she of the veil and lute, might share that adventurous
journey. As the Scottish youth made these reflections, he met two
grave looking men, apparently citizens of Tours, whom, doffing
his cap with the reverence due from youth to age, he respectfully
asked to direct him to the house of Maitre Pierre.

"The house of whom, my fair son?" said one of the passengers.

"Of Maitre Pierre, the great silk merchant, who planted all the
mulberry trees in the park yonder," said Durward.

"Young man," said one of them who was nearest to him, "you have
taken up an idle trade a little too early."

"And have chosen wrong subjects to practise your fooleries upon,"
said the farther one, still more gruffly. "The Syndic of Tours
is not accustomed to be thus talked to by strolling jesters from
foreign parts."

Quentin was so much surprised at the causeless offence which these
two decent looking persons had taken at a very simple and civil
question, that he forgot to be angry at the rudeness of their reply,
and stood staring after them as they walked on with amended pace,
often looking back at him, as if they were desirous to get as soon
as possible out of his reach.

He next met a party of vine dressers, and addressed to them the
same question; and in reply, they demanded to know whether he wanted
Maitre Pierre, the schoolmaster? or Maitre Pierre, the carpenter?
or Maitre Pierre, the beadle? or half a dozen of Maitre Pierres
besides. When none of these corresponded with the description
of the person after whom he inquired, the peasants accused him of
jesting with them impertinently, and threatened to fall upon him
and beat him, in guerdon of his raillery. The oldest amongst them,
who had some influence over the rest, prevailed on them to desist
from violence.

"You see by his speech and his fool's cap," said he, "that he is
one of the foreign mountebanks who are come into the country, and
whom some call magicians and soothsayers, and some jugglers, and
the like, and there is no knowing what tricks they have amongst
them. I have heard of such a one's paying a liard [a small copper
coin worth a quarter of a cent, current in France in the fifteenth
century.] to eat his bellyfull of grapes in a poor man's vineyard;
and he ate as many as would have loaded a wain, and never undid a
button of his jerkin -- and so let him pass quietly, and keep his
way, as we will keep ours. -- And you, friend, if you would shun
worse, walk quietly on, in the name of God, our Lady of Marmoutier,
and Saint Martin of Tours, and trouble us no more about your Maitre
Pierre, which may be another name for the devil, for aught we know."

The Scot finding himself much the weaker party, judged it his Wisest
course to walk on without reply; but the peasants, who at first
shrunk from him in horror, at his supposed talents for sorcery and
grape devouring, took heart of grace as he got to a distance, and
having uttered a few cries and curses, finally gave them emphasis
with a shower of stones, although at such a distance as to do
little or no harm to the object of their displeasure. Quentin, as
he pursued his walk, began to think, in his turn, either that he
himself lay under a spell, or that the people of Touraine were the
most stupid, brutal, and inhospitable of the French peasants. The
next incident which came under his observation did not tend to
diminish this opinion.

On a slight eminence, rising above the rapid and beautiful Cher,
in the direct line of his path, two or three large chestnut trees
were so happily placed as to form a distinguished and remarkable
group; and beside them stood three or four peasants, motionless,
with their eyes turned upwards, and fixed, apparently, upon some
object amongst the branches of the tree next to them. The meditations
of youth are seldom so profound as not to yield to the slightest,
impulse of curiosity, as easily as the lightest pebble, dropped
casually from the hand, breaks the surface of a limpid pool. Quentin
hastened his pace, and ran lightly up the rising ground, in time
enough to witness the ghastly spectacle which attracted the notice
of these gazers -- which was nothing less than the body of a man,
convulsed by the last agony, suspended on one of the branches.

"Why do you not cut him down?" said the young Scot, whose hand was
as ready to assist affliction, as to maintain his own honour when
he deemed it assailed.

One of the peasants, turning on him an eye from which fear had
banished all expression but its own, and a face as pale as clay,
pointed to a mark cut upon the bark of the tree, having the same rude
resemblance to a fleur de lys which certain talismanic scratches,
well known to our revenue officers, bear to a broad arrow. Neither
understanding nor heeding the import of this symbol, young Durward
sprung lightly as the ounce up into the tree, drew from his pouch
that most necessary implement of a Highlander or woodsman, the
trusty skene dhu [black knife; a species of knife without clasp or
hinge formerly much used by the Highlanders, who seldom travelled
without such an ugly weapon, though it is now rarely used. S.],
and, calling to those below to receive the body on their hands,
cut the rope asunder in less than a minute after he had perceived
the exigency.

But his humanity was ill seconded by the bystanders. So far from
rendering Durward any assistance, they seemed terrified at the
audacity of his action, and took to flight with one consent, as if
they feared their merely looking on might have been construed into
accession to his daring deed. The body, unsupported from beneath,
fell heavily to earth in such a manner that Quentin, who presently
afterwards jumped down, had the mortification to see that the last
sparks of life were extinguished. He gave not up his charitable
purpose, however, without farther efforts. He freed the wretched
man's neck from the fatal noose, undid the doublet, threw water
on the face, and practised the other ordinary remedies resorted to
for recalling suspended animation.

While he was thus humanely engaged, a wild clamour of tongues,
speaking a language which he knew not, arose around him; and he had
scarcely time to observe that he was surrounded by several men and
women of a singular and foreign appearance, when he found himself
roughly seized by both arms, while a naked knife, at the same
moment, was offered to his throat.

"Pale slave of Eblis!" [in Mohammedan religion the name of the
chief of the fallen angels] said a man, in imperfect French, "are
you robbing him you have murdered? -- But we have you -- and you
shall abuy it."

There were knives drawn on every side of him, as these words were
spoken, and the grim and distorted countenances which glared on
him were like those of wolves rushing on their prey.

Still the young Scot's courage and presence of mind bore him out.
"What mean ye, my masters?" he said; "if that be your friend's
body, I have just now cut him down, in pure charity, and you will
do better to try to recover his life, than to misuse an innocent
stranger to whom he owes his chance of escape."

The women had by this time taken possession of the dead body, and
continued the attempts to recover animation which Durward had been
making use of, though with the like bad success; so that, desisting
from their fruitless efforts, they seemed to abandon themselves to
all the Oriental expressions of grief; the women making a piteous
wailing, and tearing their long black hair, while the men seemed
to rend their garments, and to sprinkle dust upon their heads. They
gradually became so much engaged in their mourning rites, that they
bestowed no longer any attention on Durward, of whose innocence
they were probably satisfied from circumstances. It would certainly
have been his wisest plan to have left these wild people to their
own courses, but he had been bred in almost reckless contempt of
danger, and felt all the eagerness of youthful curiosity.

The singular assemblage, both male and female, wore turbans and
caps, more similar in general appearance to his own bonnet than
to the hats commonly worn in France. Several of the men had curled
black beards, and the complexion of all was nearly as dark as that
of Africans. One or two who seemed their chiefs, had some tawdry
ornaments of silver about their necks and in their ears, and wore
showy scarfs of yellow, or scarlet, or light green; but their legs
and arms were bare, and the whole troop seemed wretched and squalid
in appearance. There were no weapons among them that Durward saw,
except the long knives with which they had lately menaced him, and
one short, crooked sabre, or Moorish sword, which was worn by an
active looking young man, who often laid his hand upon the hill, while
he surpassed the rest of the party in his extravagant expressions
of grief, and seemed to mingle with them threats of vengeance.

The disordered and yelling group were so different in appearance
from any beings whom Quentin had yet seen, that he was on the point
of concluding them to be a party of Saracens, of those "heathen
hounds," who were the opponents of gentle knights and Christian
monarchs in all the romances which he had heard or read, and was
about to withdraw himself from a neighbourhood so perilous, when
a galloping of horse was heard, and the supposed Saracens, who had
raised by this time the body of their comrade upon their shoulders,
were at once charged by a party of French soldiers.

This sudden apparition changed the measured wailing of the mourners
into irregular shrieks of terror. The body was thrown to the ground
in an instant, and those who were around it showed the utmost and
most dexterous activity in escaping under the bellies as it were
of the horses, from the point of the lances which were levelled at
them, with exclamations of "Down with the accursed heathen thieves
-- take and kill -- bind them like beasts -- spear them like wolves!"

These cries were accompanied with corresponding acts of violence;
but such was the alertness of the fugitives, the ground being
rendered unfavourable to the horsemen by thickets and bushes,
that only two were struck down and made prisoners, one of whom was
the young fellow with the sword, who had previously offered some
resistance. Quentin, whom fortune seemed at this period to have
chosen for the butt of her shafts, was at the same time seized by
the soldiers, and his arms, in spite of his remonstrances, bound
down with a cord; those who apprehended him showing a readiness
and dispatch in the operation, which proved them to be no novices
in matters of police.

Looking anxiously to the leader of the horsemen, from whom he hoped
to obtain liberty, Quentin knew not exactly whether to be pleased
or alarmed upon recognising in him the down looking and silent
companion of Maitre Pierre. True, whatever crime these strangers
might be accused of, this officer might know, from the history of
the morning, that he, Durward, had no connection with them whatever;
but it was a more difficult question, whether this sullen man would
be either a favourable judge or a willing witness in his behalf,
and he felt doubtful whether he would mend his condition by making
any direct application to him.

But there was little leisure for hesitation. "Trois Eschelles and
Petit Andre," said the down looking officer to two of his band,
"These same trees stand here quite convenient. I will teach these
misbelieving, thieving sorcerers to interfere with the King's
justice, when it has visited any of their accursed race. Dismount,
my children, and do your office briskly."

Trois Eschelles and Petit Andre were in an instant on foot, and
Quentin observed that they had each, at the crupper and pommel of
his saddle, a coil or two of ropes, which they hastily undid, and
showed that, in fact, each coil formed a halter, with the fatal
noose adjusted, ready for execution. The blood ran cold in Quentin's
veins, when he saw three cords selected, and perceived that it was
proposed to put one around his own neck. He called on the officer
loudly, reminded him of their meeting that morning, claimed the
right of a free born Scotsman in a friendly and allied country, and
denied any knowledge of the persons along with whom he was seized,
or of their misdeed.

The officer whom Durward thus addressed, scarce deigned to look
at him while he was speaking, and took no notice whatever of the
claim he preferred to prior acquaintance. He barely turned to one
or two of the peasants who were now come forward, either to volunteer
their evidence against the prisoners, or out of curiosity, and said
gruffly, "Was yonder young fellow with the vagabonds?"

"That he was, sir, and it please your noble Provostship," answered
one of the clowns; "he was the very first blasphemously to cut down
the rascal whom his Majesty's justice most deservedly hung up, as
we told your worship."

"I'll swear by God, and Saint Martin of Tours, to have seen him
with their gang," said another, "when they pillaged our metairie
[a small farm]."

"Nay, but," said a boy, "yonder heathen was black, and this youth
is fair; yonder one had short curled hair, and this hath long fair
locks."

"Ay, child," said the peasant, "and perhaps you will say yonder
one had a green coat and this a gray jerkin. But his worship, the
Provost, knows that they can change their complexions as easily as
their jerkins, so that I am still minded he was the same."

"It is enough that you have seen him intermeddle with the course of
the King's justice, by attempting to recover an executed traitor,"
said the officer. -- "Trois Eschelles and Petit Andre, dispatch."

"Stay, signior officer!" exclaimed the youth in mortal agony; "hear
me speak -- let me not die guiltlessly -- my blood will be required
of you by my countrymen in this world, and by Heaven's justice in
that which is to follow."

"I will answer for my actions in both," said the Provost, coldly,
and made a sign with his left hand to the executioners; then, with
a smile of triumphant malice, touched with his forefinger his right
arm, which hung suspended in a scarf, disabled probably by the blow
which Durward had dealt him that morning.

"Miserable, vindictive wretch!" answered Quentin, persuaded by
that action that private revenge was the sole motive of this man's
rigour, and that no mercy whatever was to be expected from him.

"The poor youth raves," said the functionary: "speak a word of
comfort to him ere he make his transit, Trois Eschelles; thou art
a comfortable man in such cases when a confessor is not to be had.
Give him one minute of ghostly advice, and dispatch matters in the
next. I must proceed on the rounds. -- Soldiers, follow me!"

The Provost rode on, followed by his guard, excepting two or three,
who were left to assist in the execution. The unhappy youth cast
after him an eye almost darkened by despair, and thought he heard
in every tramp of his horse's retreating hoofs the last slight
chance of his safety vanish. He looked around him in agony, and was
surprised, even in that moment, to see the stoical indifference of
his fellow prisoners. They had previously testified every sign of
fear, and made every effort of escape; but now, when secured and
destined apparently to inevitable death, they awaited its arrival
with the utmost composure. The scene of fate before them gave,
perhaps, a more yellow tinge to their swarthy cheeks; but it neither
agitated their features, nor quenched the stubborn haughtiness of
their eye. They seemed like foxes, which, after all their wiles
and artful attempts at escape are exhausted, die with a silent and
sullen fortitude which wolves and bears, the fiercer objects of the
chase, do not exhibit. They were undaunted by the conduct of the
fatal executioners, who went about their work with more deliberation
than their master had recommended, and which probably arose from
their having acquired by habit a sort of pleasure in the discharge
of their horrid office. We pause an instant to describe them, because,
under a tyranny, whether despotic or popular, the character of the
hangman becomes a subject of grave importance.

These functionaries were essentially different in their appearance
and manners. Louis used to call them Democritus and Heraclitus,
and their master, the Provost, termed them Jean qui pleure and Jean
qui rit.

[Democritus and Heraclitus: two Greek philosophers of the fifth
century; the former because of his propensity to laugh at the
follies of men was called the "laughing philosopher;" the latter,
according to a current notion, probably unfounded, habitually wept
over the follies of mankind]

[Jean qui pleure, and Jean qui rit: John who weeps and John who
laughs. One of these two persons, . . might with more accuracy
have been called Petit Jean, than Petit Andre. This was actually
the name of the son of Henry de Cousin, master executioner of the
High Court of Justice. S.]

Trois Eschelles was a tall, thin, ghastly man, with a peculiar
gravity of visage, and a large rosary round his neck, the use of
which he was accustomed piously to offer to those sufferers on whom
he did his duty. He had one or two Latin texts continually in his
mouth on the nothingness and vanity of human life; and, had it
been regular to have enjoyed such a plurality, he might have held
the office of confessor to the jail in commendam with that of
executioner. Petit Andre, on the contrary, was a joyous looking,
round, active, little fellow, who rolled about in execution of his
duty as if it were the most diverting occupation in the world. He
seemed to have a sort of fond affection for his victims, and always
spoke of them in kindly and affectionate terms. They were his poor
honest fellows, his pretty dears, his gossips, his good old fathers,
as their age or sex might be; and as Trois Eschelles endeavoured to
inspire them with a philosophical or religious regard to futurity,
Petit Andre seldom failed to refresh them with a jest or two, as if
to induce them to pass from life as something that was ludicrous,
contemptible, and not worthy of serious consideration.

I cannot tell why or wherefore it was, but these two excellent
persons, notwithstanding the variety of their talents, and the rare
occurrence of such among persons of their profession, were both
more utterly detested than perhaps any creatures of their kind,
whether before or since; and the only doubt of those who knew aught
of them was, whether the grave and pathetic Trois Eschelles or the
frisky, comic, alert Petit Andre was the object of the greatest
fear, or of the deepest execration. It is certain they bore the
palm in both particulars over every hangman in France, unless it
were perhaps their master Tristan l'Hermite, the renowned Provost
Marshal, or his master, Louis XI.

It must not be supposed that these reflections were of Quentin
Durward's making. Life, death, time, and eternity were swimming
before his eyes -- a stunning and overwhelming prospect, from which
human nature recoiled in its weakness, though human pride would
fain have borne up. He addressed himself to the God of his fathers;
and when he did so, the little rude and unroofed chapel, which now
held almost all his race but himself, rushed on his recollection.

"Our feudal enemies gave my kindred graves in our own land," he
thought, "but I must feed the ravens and kites of a foreign land,
like an excommunicated felon!"

The tears gushed involuntarily from his eyes. Trois Eschelles,
touching one shoulder, gravely congratulated him on his heavenly
disposition for death, and pathetically exclaiming, Beati qui in
Domino moriuntur [blessed are they who die in the Lord], remarked,
the soul was happy that left the body while the tear was in the eye.
Petit Andre, slapping the other shoulder, called out, "Courage, my
fair son! since you must begin the dance, let the ball open gaily,
for all the rebecs are in tune," twitching the halter at the same
time, to give point to his joke. As the youth turned his dismayed
looks, first on one and then on the other, they made their meaning
plainer by gently urging him forward to the fatal tree, and bidding
him be of good courage, for it would be over in a moment.

In this fatal predicament, the youth cast a distracted look around
him. "Is there any good Christian who hears me," he said, "that will
tell Ludovic Lesly of the Scottish Guard, called in this country Le
Balafre, that his nephew is here basely murdered?" The words were
spoken in good time, for an Archer of the Scottish Guard, attracted
by the preparations for the execution, was standing by, with one
or two other chance passengers, to witness what was passing.

"Take heed what you do," he said to the executioners, "if this young
man be of Scottish birth, I will not permit him to have foul play."

"Heaven forbid, Sir Cavalier," said Trois Eschelles; "but we must
obey our orders," drawing Durward forward by one arm. "The shortest
play is ever the fairest," said Petit Andre, pulling him onward by
the other.

But Quentin had heard words of comfort, and, exerting his strength,
he suddenly shook off both the finishers of the law, and, with
his arms still bound, ran to the Scottish Archer. "Stand by me,
countryman," he said, in his own language, "for the love of Scotland
and Saint Andrew! I am innocent -- I am your own native landsman.
Stand by me, as you shall answer at the last day."

"By Saint Andrew! they shall make at you through me!" said the
Archer, and unsheathed his sword.

"Cut my bonds, countryman," said Quentin, "and I will do something
for myself."

This was done with a touch of the Archer's weapon, and the liberated
captive, springing suddenly on one of the Provost's guard, wrested
from him a halbert with which he was armed. "And now" he said,
"come on, if you dare."

The two officers whispered together.

"Ride thou after the Provost Marshal," said Trois Eschelles, "and
I will detain them here, if I can. Soldiers of the Provost's guard,
stand to your arms."

Petit Andre mounted his horse, and left the field, and the other
Marshals men in attendance drew together so hastily at the command
of Trois Eschelles, that they suffered the other two prisoners to
make their escape during the confusion. Perhaps they were not very
anxious to detain them; for they had of late been sated with the
blood of such wretches, and, like other ferocious animals, were,
through long slaughter, become tired of carnage. But the pretext
was, that they thought themselves immediately called upon to attend
to the safety of Trois Eschelles; for there was a jealousy, which
occasionally led to open quarrels, betwixt the Scottish Archers
and the Marshal guards, who executed the orders of their Provost.

"We are strong enough to beat the proud Scots twice over, if it be
your pleasure," said one of these soldiers to Trois Eschelles.

But that cautious official made a sign to him to remain quiet, and
addressed the Scottish Archer with great civility. "Surely, sir,
this is a great insult to the Provost Marshal, that you should
presume to interfere with the course of the King's justice, duly
and lawfully committed to his charge; and it is no act of justice
to me, who am in lawful possession of my criminal. Neither is
it a well meant kindness to the youth himself, seeing that fifty
opportunities of hanging him may occur, without his being found in
so happy a state of preparation as he was before your ill advised
interference."

"If my young countryman," said the Scot, smiling, "be of opinion I
have done him an injury, I will return him to your charge without
a word more dispute."

"No, no! -- for the love of Heaven, no!" exclaimed Quentin. "I
would rather you swept my head off with your long sword -- it would
better become my birth, than to die by the hands of such a foul
churl."

"Hear how he revileth," said the finisher of the law. "Alas! how
soon our best resolutions pass away! -- he was in a blessed frame
for departure but now, and in two minutes he has become a contemner
of authorities."

"Tell me at once," said the Archer, "what has this young man done."

"Interfered," answered Trois Eschelles, with some earnestness, "to
take down the dead body of a criminal, when the fleur de lys was
marked on the tree where he was hung with my own proper hand."

"How is this, young man?" said the Archer; "how came you to have
committed such an offence?"

"As I desire your protection," answered Durward, "I will tell you
the truth as if I were at confession. I saw a man struggling on the
tree, and I went to cut him down out of mere humanity. I thought
neither of fleur de lys nor of clove gilliflower, and had no more
idea of offending the King of France than our Father the Pope."

"What a murrain had you to do with the dead body, then?" said the
Archer. "You 'll see them hanging, in the rear of this gentleman,
like grapes on every tree, and you will have enough to do in this
country if you go a-gleaning after the hangman. However, I will
not quit a countryman's cause if I can help it. -- Hark ye, Master
Marshals man, you see this is entirely a mistake. You should have
some compassion on so young a traveller. In our country at home
he has not been accustomed to see such active proceedings as yours
and your master's."

"Not for want of need of them, Signior Archer," said Petit Andre,
who returned at this moment. "Stand fast, Trois Eschelles, for
here comes the Provost Marshal; we shall presently see how he will
relish having his work taken out of his hand before it is finished."

"And in good time," said the Archer, "here come some of my comrades."

Accordingly, as the Provost Tristan rode up with his patrol on one
side of the little bill which was the scene of the altercation,
four or five Scottish Archers came as hastily up on the other, and
at their head the Balafre himself.

Upon this urgency, Lesly showed none of that indifference towards
his nephew of which Quentin had in his heart accused him; for he
no sooner saw his comrade and Durward standing upon their defence,
than he exclaimed, "Cunningham, I thank thee. -- Gentlemen --
comrades, lend me your aid. -- It is a young Scottish gentleman --
my nephew -- Lindesay -- Guthrie -- Tyrie, draw, and strike in!"

There was now every prospect of a desperate scuffle between the
parties, who were not so disproportioned in numbers but that the
better arms of the Scottish cavaliers gave them an equal chance
of victory. But the Provost Marshal, either doubting the issue of
the conflict, or aware that it would be disagreeable to the King,
made a sign to his followers to forbear from violence, while he
demanded of Balafre, who now put himself forward as the head of the
other party, what he, a cavalier of the King's Bodyguard, purposed
by opposing the execution of a criminal.

"I deny that I do so," answered the Balafre. "Saint Martin! [patron
saint of Tours, Lucca, and of penitent drunkards. He was greatly
honoured in the Middle Ages.] there is, I think, some difference
between the execution of a criminal and a slaughter of my own
nephew!"

"Your nephew may be a criminal as well as another," said the Provost
Marshal; "and every stranger in France is amenable to the laws of
France."

"Yes, but we have privileges, we Scottish Archers," said Balafre,
"have we not, comrades?"

"Yes, yes," they all exclaimed together. "Privileges -- privileges!
Long live King Louis -- long live the bold Balafre -- long live the
Scottish Guard -- and death to all who would infringe our privileges!"

"Take reason with you, gentlemen cavaliers," said the Provost
Marshal; "consider my commission."

"We will have no reason at your hand," said Cunningham; "our own
officers shall do us reason. We will be judged by the King's grace,
or by our own Captain, now that the Lord High Constable is not in
presence."

"And we will be hanged by none," said Lindesay, "but Sandie Wilson,
the auld Marshals man of our ain body."

"It would be a positive cheating of Sandie, who is as honest
a man as ever tied noose upon hemp, did we give way to any other
proceeding," said the Balafre. "Were I to be hanged myself, no
other should tie tippet about my craig."

"But hear ye," said the Provost Marshal, "this young fellow belongs
not to you, and cannot share what you call your privileges."

"What we call our privileges, all shall admit to be such," said
Cunningham.

"We will not hear them questioned!" was the universal cry of the
Archers.

"Ye are mad, my masters," said Tristan l'Hermite. "No one disputes
your privileges; but this youth is not one of you."

"He is my nephew," said the Balafre, with a triumphant air.

"But no Archer of the Guard, I think," retorted Tristan l'Hermite.

The Archers looked on each other in some uncertainty.

"Stand to it yet, comrade," whispered Cunningham to Balafre. "Say
he is engaged with us."

"Saint Martin! you say well, fair countryman," answered Lesly; and
raising his voice, swore that he had that day enrolled his kinsman
as one of his own retinue. This declaration was a decisive argument.

"It is well, gentlemen," said the Provost Tristan, who was aware of
the King's nervous apprehension of disaffection creeping in among
his Guards. "You know, as you say, your privileges, and it is
not my duty to have brawls with the King's Guards, if it is to be
avoided. But I will report this matter for the King's own decision;
and I would have you to be aware, that, in doing so, I act more
mildly than perhaps my duty warrants."

So saying, he put his troop into motion, while the Archers, remaining
on the spot, held a hasty consultation what was next to be done.
"We must report the matter to Lord Crawford, our Captain, in the
first place, and have the young fellow's name put on the roll."

"But, gentlemen, and my worthy friends and preservers," said
Quentin, with some hesitation, "I have not yet determined whether
to take service with you or no."

"Then settle in your own mind," said his uncle, "whether you choose
to do so, or be hanged -- for I promise you, that, nephew of mine
as you are, I see no other chance of your 'scaping the gallows."

This was an unanswerable argument, and reduced Quentin at once to
acquiesce in what he might have otherwise considered as no very
agreeable proposal; but the recent escape from the halter, which
had been actually around his neck, would probably have reconciled
him to a worse alternative than was proposed.

"He must go home with us to our caserne," said Cunningham; "there
is no safety for him out of our bounds, whilst these man hunters
are prowling."

"May I not then abide for this night at the hostelry where
I breakfasted, fair uncle?" said the youth -- thinking, perhaps,
like many a new recruit, that even a single night of freedom was
something gained.

"Yes, fair nephew," answered his uncle, ironically, "that we may have
the pleasure of fishing you out of some canal or moat, or perhaps
out of a loop of the Loire, knit up in a sack for the greater
convenience of swimming -- for that is like to be the end on't. The
Provost Marshal smiled on us when we parted," continued he, addressing
Cunningham, "and that is a sign his thoughts were dangerous."

"I care not for his danger," said Cunningham; "such game as we are
beyond his bird bolts. But I would have thee tell the whole to the
Devil's Oliver [Oliver Dain: Oliver's name, or nickname, was Le
Diable, which was bestowed on him by public hatred, in exchange
for Le Daim, or Le Dain. He was originally the King's barber, but
afterwards a favourite counsellor. S.], who is always a good friend
to the Scottish Guard, and will see Father Louis before the Provost
can, for he is to shave him tomorrow."

"But hark you," said Balafre, "it is ill going to Oliver empty
handed, and I am as bare as the birch in December."

"So are we all," said Cunningham. "Oliver must not scruple to take
our Scottish words for once. We will make up something handsome
among us against the next payday; and if he expects to share, let
me tell you, the payday will come about all the sooner."

"And now for the Chateau," said Balafre; "and my nephew shall tell
us by the way how he brought the Provost Marshal on his shoulders,
that we may know how to frame our report both to Crawford and
Oliver."


CHAPTER VII: THE ENROLMENT

Justice of Peace. --
Here, hand me down the statute -- read the articles --
Swear, kiss the book -- subscribe, and be a hero;
Drawing a portion from the public stock
For deeds of valour to be done hereafter --
Sixpence per day, subsistence and arrears.

THE RECRUITING OFFICER


An attendant upon the Archers having been dismounted, Quentin
Durward was accommodated with his horse, and, in company of his
martial countrymen, rode at a round pace towards the Castle of
Plessis, about to become, although on his own part involuntarily,
an inhabitant of that gloomy fortress, the outside of which had,
that morning, struck him with so much surprise.

In the meanwhile, in answer to his uncle's repeated interrogations,
he gave him an exact account of the accident which had that morning
brought him into so much danger. Although he himself saw nothing
in his narrative save what was affecting, he found it was received
with much laughter by his escort.

"And yet it is no good jest either," said his uncle, "for what, in
the devil's name, could lead the senseless boy to meddle with the
body of a cursed misbelieving Jewish Moorish pagan?"

"Had he quarrelled with the Marshals men about a pretty wench,
as Michael of Moffat did, there had been more sense in it," said
Cunningham.

"But I think it touches our honour that Tristan and his people pretend
to confound our Scottish bonnets with these pilfering vagabonds --
torques and turbands, as they call them," said Lindesay. "If they
have not eyes to see the difference they must be taught by rule of
hand. But it 's my belief, Tristan but pretends to mistake, that he
may snap up the kindly Scots that come over to see their kinsfolks."

"May I ask, kinsman," said Quentin, "what sort of people these are
of whom you speak?"

"In troth you may ask," said his uncle, "but I know not, fair nephew,
who is able to answer you. Not I, I am sure, although I know, it
may be, as much as other people; but they appeared in this land
within a year or two, just as a flight of locusts might do."

"Ay," said Lindesay, "and Jacques Bonhomme (that is our name for
the peasant, young man -- you will learn our way of talk in time)
-- honest Jacques, I say, cares little what wind either brings them
or the locusts, so he but knows any gale that would carry them away
again."

"Do they do so much evil?" asked the young man.

"Evil? why, boy, they are heathens, or Jews, or Mahommedans at
the least, and neither worship Our Lady, nor the Saints" (crossing
himself) "and steal what they can lay hands on, and sing, and tell
fortunes," added Cunningham.

"And they say there are some goodly wenches amongst these," said
Guthrie; "but Cunningham knows that best."

"How, brother!" said Cunningham. "I trust ye mean me no reproach?"

"I am sure I said ye none," answered Guthrie.

"I will be judged by the company," said Cunningham. "Ye said as
much as that I, a Scottish gentleman, and living within pale of holy
church, had a fair friend among these off scourings of Heathenesse."

"Nay, nay," said Balafre, "he did but jest. We will have no quarrels
among comrades."

"We must have no such jesting then," said Cunningham, murmuring,
as if he had been speaking to his own beard.

"Be there such vagabonds in other lands than France?" said Lindesay.

"Ay, in good sooth, are there -- tribes of them have appeared in
Germany, and in Spain, and in England," answered Balafre. "By the
blessing of good Saint Andrew, Scotland is free of them yet."

"Scotland," said Cunningham, "is too cold, a country for locusts,
and too poor a country for thieves."

"Or perhaps John Highlander will suffer no thieves to thrive there
but his own," said Guthrie.

"I let you all know," said Balafre, "that I come from the Braes
of Angus, and have gentle Highland kin in Glen Isla and I will not
have the Highlanders slandered."

"You will not deny that they are cattle lifters?" said Guthrie.

"To drive a spreagh [to plunder] or so, is no thievery," said
Balafre, "and that I will maintain when and how you dare."

"For shame, comrade!" said Cunningham, "who quarrels now? The young
man should not see such mad misconstruction -- Come, here we are
at the Chateau. I will bestow a runlet of wine to have a rouse in
friendship, and drink to Scotland, Highland and Lowland both, if
you will meet me at dinner at my quarters."

"Agreed -- agreed," said Balafre; "and I will bestow another to
wash away unkindness, and to drink a health to my nephew on his
first entrance to our corps."

At their approach, the wicket was opened, and the drawbridge fell.
One by one they entered; but when Quentin appeared, the sentinels
crossed their pikes, and commanded him to stand, while bows were
bent, and harquebusses aimed at him from the walls, a rigour of
vigilance used, notwithstanding that the young stranger came in
company of a party of the garrison, nay, of the very body which
furnished the sentinels who were then upon duty.

Le Balafre, who had remained by his nephew's side on purpose, gave
the necessary explanations, and, after some considerable hesitation
and delay, the youth was conveyed under a strong guard to the Lord
Crawford's apartment.

This Scottish nobleman was one of the last relics of the gallant band
of Scottish lords and knights who had so long and so truly served
Charles VI in those bloody wars which decided the independence of
the French crown, and the expulsion of the English. He had fought,
when a boy, abreast with Douglas and with Buchan, had ridden beneath
the banner of the Maid of Arc, and was perhaps one of the last of
those associates of Scottish chivalry who had so willingly drawn
their swords for the fleur de lys, against their "auld enemies of
England." Changes which had taken place in the Scottish kingdom, and
perhaps his having become habituated to French climate and manners,
had induced the old Baron to resign all thoughts of returning to
his native country, the rather that the high office which he held
in the household of Louis and his own frank and loyal character
had gained a considerable ascendancy over the King, who, though in
general no ready believer in human virtue or honour, trusted and
confided in those of the Lord Crawford, and allowed him the greater
influence, because he was never known to interfere excepting in
matters which concerned his charge.

[Douglas: fourth earl of Douglas. He was created Duke of Touraine
in 1423 by Charles VII of France.]

[Buchan: Regent of Scotland and grandson of Robert II. He entered
the service of Charles VII in 1420, and was appointed Constable of
France.]

[Maid of Arc (1412-1431): Joan of Arc. She believed that God had
called her to liberate France from the curse of the English who
were besieging Orleans. In person she led the French troops from
victory to victory until she saw the Dauphin crowned as Charles
VII at Rheims. She was then betrayed by her people into the hands
of the English, who, in 1431, sentenced her to the flames.]

Balafre and Cunningham followed Durward and the guard to the
apartment of their officer, by whose dignified appearance, as well
as with the respect paid to him by these proud soldiers, who seemed
to respect no one else, the young man was much and strongly impressed.

Lord Crawford was tall, and through advanced age had become gaunt
and thin; yet retaining in his sinews the strength, at least, if
not the elasticity, of youth, he was able to endure the weight of
his armour during a march as well as the youngest man who rode in
his band. He was hard favoured, with a scarred and weather-beaten
countenance, and an eye that had looked upon death as his playfellow
in thirty pitched battles, but which nevertheless expressed a calm
contempt of danger, rather than the ferocious courage of a mercenary
soldier. His tall, erect figure was at present wrapped in a loose
chamber gown, secured around him by his buff belt, in which was
suspended his richly hilted poniard. He had round his neck the
collar and badge of the order of Saint Michael [a patron saint of
France. In 1469, a military order was instituted in his honour by
Louis XI]. He sat upon a couch covered with deer's hide, and with
spectacles on his nose (then a recent invention) was labouring to
read a huge manuscript called the Rosier de la Guerre, a code of
military and civil policy which Louis had compiled for the benefit
of his son the Dauphin, and upon which he was desirous to have the
opinion of the experienced Scottish warrior.

Lord Crawford laid his book somewhat peevishly aside upon the
entrance of these unexpected visitors, and demanded, in his broad
national dialect, what, in the foul fiend's name, they lacked now.

Le Balafre, with more respect than perhaps he would have shown to
Louis himself, stated at full length the circumstances in which his
nephew was placed, and humbly requested his Lordship's protection.
Lord Crawford listened very attentively. He could not but smile
at the simplicity with which the youth had interfered in behalf of
the hanged criminal, but he shook his head at the account which he
received of the ruffle betwixt the Scottish Archers and the Provost
Marshal's guard.

[Such disputes between the Scots Guards and the other constituted
authorities of the ordinary military corps often occurred. In 1474,
two Scotsmen had been concerned in robbing . . . a fishmonger of
a large sum of money. They were accordingly apprehended by Philip
du Four, Provost, with some of his followers. But ere they could
lodge one of them, . . in the prison of the Chastellet, they were
attacked by two Archers of the King's Scottish Guard, who rescued
the prisoner. . . . S.]

"How often," he said, "will you bring me such ill winded pirns
to ravel out? How often must I tell you, and especially both you,
Ludovic Lesly, and you, Archie Cunningham, that the foreign soldier
should bear himself modestly and decorously towards the people of
the country if you would not have the whole dogs of the town at your
heels? However, if you must have a bargain [a quarrel, videlicet.
S.], I would rather it were with that loon of a Provost than any
one else; and I blame you less for this onslaught than for other
frays that you have made, Ludovic, for it was but natural and
kind-like to help your young kinsman. This simple bairn must come
to no skaith [same as scathe] neither; so give me the roll of the
company yonder down from the shelf, and we will even add his name
to the troop, that he may enjoy the privileges."

"May it please your Lordship" said Durward.

"Is the lad crazed?" exclaimed his uncle. "Would you speak to his
Lordship without a question asked?"

"Patience, Ludovic," said Lord Crawford, "and let us hear what the
bairn has to say."

"Only this, if it may please your Lordship," replied Quentin, "that
I told my uncle formerly I had some doubts about entering this
service. I have now to say that they are entirely removed, since
I have seen the noble and experienced commander under whom I am to
serve; for there is authority in your look."

"Weel said, my bairn," said the old Lord, not insensible to the
compliment; "we have had some experience, had God sent us grace
to improve by it, both in service and in command. There you stand,
Quentin, in our honourable corps of Scottish Bodyguards, as esquire
to your uncle, and serving under his lance. I trust you will do
well, for you should be a right man at arms, if all be good that
is upcome [that is, if your courage corresponds with your personal
appearance. S.], and you are come of a gentle kindred. -- Ludovic,
you will see that your kinsman follow his exercise diligently, for
we will have spears breaking one of these days."

"By my hilts, and I am glad of it, my Lord -- this peace makes
cowards of us all. I myself feel a sort of decay of spirit, closed
up in this cursed dungeon of a Castle."

"Well, a bird whistled in my ear," continued Lord Crawford, "that
the old banner will be soon dancing in the field again."

"I will drink a cup the deeper this evening to that very tune,"
said Balafre.

"Thou wilt drink to any tune," said Lord Crawford; "and I fear
me, Ludovic, you will drink a bitter browst [as much liquor as is
brewed at one time] of your own brewing one day."

Lesly, a little abashed, replied that it had not been his wont for
many a day; but that his Lordship knew the use of the company, to
have a carouse to the health of a new comrade.

"True," said the old leader, "I had forgot the occasion. I will
send a few stoups of wine to assist your carouse; but let it be over
by sunset. And, hark ye -- let the soldiers for duty he carefully
pricked off; and see that none of them be more or less partakers
of your debauch."

"Your Lordship shall be lawfully obeyed," said Ludovic, "and your
health duly remembered."

"Perhaps," said Lord Crawford, "I may look in myself upon your
mirth -- just to see that all is carried decently."

"Your Lordship shall be most dearly welcome;" said Ludovic; and the
whole party retreated in high spirits to prepare for their military
banquet, to which Lesly invited about a score of his comrades, who
were pretty much in the habit of making their mess together.

A soldier's festival is generally a very extempore affair, providing
there is enough of meat and drink to be had; but on the present
occasion, Ludovic bustled about to procure some better wine than
ordinary; observing that the old Lord was the surest gear in their
aught, and that, while he preached sobriety to them, he himself,
after drinking at the royal table as much wine as he could honestly
come by, never omitted any creditable opportunity to fill up the
evening over the wine pot.

"So you must prepare, comrades," he said, "to hear the old histories
of the battles of Vernoil and Beauge [in both these battles the
Scottish auxiliaries of France, under Stewart, Earl of Buchan, were
distinguished. . . . S.]."

The Gothic apartment in which they generally met was, therefore,
hastily put into the best order; their grooms were dispatched to
collect green rushes to spread upon the floor; and banners, under
which the Scottish Guard had marched to battle, or which they had
taken from the enemies' ranks, were displayed, by way of tapestry,
over the table and around the walls of the chamber.

The next point was, to invest the young recruit as hastily as
possible with the dress and appropriate arms of the Guard, that he
might appear in every respect the sharer of its important privileges,
in virtue of which, and by the support of his countrymen, he might
freely brave the power and the displeasure of the Provost Marshal
-- although the one was known to be as formidable as the other was
unrelenting.

The banquet was joyous in the highest degree; and the guests gave
vent to the whole current of their national partiality on receiving
into their ranks a recruit from their beloved fatherland. Old
Scottish songs were sung, old tales of Scottish heroes told -- the
achievements of their fathers, and the scenes in which they were
wrought, were recalled to mind; and, for a time, the rich plains of
Touraine seemed converted into the mountainous and sterile regions
of Caledonia.

When their enthusiasm was at high flood, and each was endeavouring
to say something to enhance the dear remembrance of Scotland, it
received a new impulse from the arrival of Lord Crawford, who, as
Le Balafre had well prophesied, sat as it were on thorns at the
royal board, until an opportunity occurred of making his escape
to the revelry of his own countrymen. A chair of state had been
reserved for him at the upper end of the table; for, according to
the manners of the age and the constitution of that body, although
their leader and commander under the King and High Constable, the
members of the corps (as we should now say, the privates) being all
ranked as noble by birth, their captain sat with them at the same
table without impropriety, and might mingle when he chose in their
festivity, without derogation from his dignity as commander.

At present, however, Lord Crawford declined occupying the seat
prepared for him, and bidding them "hold themselves merry," stood
looking on the revel with a countenance which seemed greatly to
enjoy it.

"Let him alone," whispered Cunningham to Lindesay, as the latter
offered the wine to their noble captain, "let him alone -- hurry
no man's cattle -- let him take it of his own accord."

In fact, the old Lord, who at first smiled, shook his head, and
placed the untasted winecup before him, began presently, as if it
were in absence of mind, to sip a little of the contents, and in
doing so, fortunately recollected that it would be ill luck did he
not drink a draught to the health of the gallant lad who had joined
them this day. The pledge was filled, and answered, as may well be
supposed, with many a joyous shout, when the old leader proceeded
to acquaint them that he had possessed Master Oliver with an account
of what had passed that day.

"And as," he said, "the scraper of chins hath no great love for the
stretcher of throats, he has joined me in obtaining from the King
an order, commanding the Provost to suspend all proceedings, under
whatever pretence, against Quentin Durward; and to respect, on all
occasions, the privileges of the Scottish guard."

Another shout broke forth, the cups were again filled till the
wine sparkled on the brim, and there was an acclaim to the health
of the noble Lord Crawford, the brave conservator of the privileges
and rights of his countrymen. The good old Lord could not but in
courtesy do reason to this pledge also, and gliding into the ready
chair; as it were, without reflecting what he was doing, he caused
Quentin to come up beside him, and assailed him with many more
questions concerning the state of Scotland, and the great families
there, than he was well able to answer, while ever and anon, in the
course of his queries, the good Lord kissed the wine cup by way of
parenthesis, remarking that sociality became Scottish gentlemen,
but that young men, like Quentin, ought to practise it cautiously,
lest it might degenerate into excess; upon which occasion he uttered
many excellent things, until his own tongue, although employed in
the praises of temperance, began to articulate something thicker
than usual. It was now that, while the military ardour of the
company augmented with each flagon which they emptied, Cunningham
called on them to drink the speedy hoisting of the Oriflamme, the
royal banner of France.

"And a breeze of Burgundy to fan it!" echoed Lindesay.

"With all the soul that is left in this worn body do I accept
the pledge, bairns," echoed Lord Crawford; "and as old as I am, I
trust I may see it flutter yet. Hark ye, my mates," (for wine had
made him something communicative), "ye are all true servants to the
French crown, and wherefore should ye not know there is an envoy
come from Duke Charles of Burgundy, with a message of an angry
favour?"

"I saw the Count of Crevecoeur's equipage, horses, and retinue,"
said another of the guests, "down at the inn yonder at the Mulberry
Grove. They say the King will not admit him into the Castle."

"Now, Heaven send him an ungracious answer!" said Guthrie; "but
what is it he complains of?"

"A world of grievances upon the frontier," said Lord Crawford; "and
latterly, that the King hath received under his protection a lady
of his land, a young Countess, who hath fled from Dijon, because,
being a ward of the Duke, he would have her marry his favourite,
Campobasso."

"And hath she actually come hither alone, my lord?" said Lindesay.

"Nay, not altogether alone, but with the old Countess, her kinswoman,
who hath yielded to her cousin's wishes in this matter."

"And will the King," said Cunningham, "he being the Duke's feudal
sovereign, interfere between the Duke and his ward, over whom
Charles hath the same right, which, were he himself dead, the King
would have over the heiress of Burgundy?"

"The King will be ruled as he is wont, by rules of policy, and
you know," continued Crawford, "that he hath not publicly received
these ladies, nor placed them under the protection of his daughters,
the Lady of Beaujeu, or the Princess Joan, so, doubtless, he will
be guided by circumstances. He is our Master -- but it is no treason
to say, he will chase with the hounds, and run with the hare, with
any prince in Christendom."

"But the Duke of Burgundy understands no such doubling;" said
Cunningham.

"No," answered the old Lord; "and, therefore, it is likely to make
work between them."

"Well -- Saint Andrew further the fray!" said Le Balafre. "I had
it foretold me ten, ay, twenty years since, that I was to make
the fortune of my house by marriage. Who knows what may happen, if
once we come to fight for honour and ladies' love, as they do in
the old romaunts."

"Thou name ladies' love, with such a trench in thy visage!" said
Guthrie.

"As well not love at all, as love a Bohemian woman of Heathenesse,"
retorted Le Balafre.

"Hold there, comrades," said Lord Crawford; "no tilting with sharp
weapons, no jesting with keen scoffs -- friends all. And for the
lady, she is too wealthy to fall to a poor Scottish lord, or I would
put in my own claim, fourscore years and all, or not very far from
it. But here is her health, nevertheless, for they say she is a
lamp of beauty."

"I think I saw her," said another soldier, "when I was upon guard
this morning at the inner barrier; but she was more like a dark
lantern than a lamp, for she and another were brought into the
Chateau in close litters."

"Shame! shame! Arnot!" said Lord Crawford; "a soldier on duty should
say naught of what he sees. Besides," he added after a pause, his
own curiosity prevailing over the show of discipline which he had
thought it necessary to exert, "why should these litters contain
this very same Countess Isabelle de Croye?"

"Nay, my Lord," replied Arnot, "I know nothing of it save this,
that my coutelier was airing my horses in the road to the village,
and fell in with Doguin the muleteer, who brought back the litters
to the inn, for they belong to the fellow of the Mulberry Grove
yonder -- he of the Fleur de Lys, I mean -- and so Doguin asked
Saunders Steed to take a cup of wine, as they were acquainted,
which he was no doubt willing enough to do."

"No doubt -- no doubt," said the old Lord; "it is a thing I wish
were corrected among you, gentlemen; but all your grooms, and
couteliers, and jackmen as we should call them in Scotland, are
but too ready to take a cup of wine with any one. -- It is a thing
perilous in war, and must be amended. But, Andrew Arnot, this
is a long tale of yours, and we will cut it with a drink; as the
Highlander says, Skeoch doch nan skial ['Cut a tale with a drink;'
an expression used when a man preaches over his liquor, as bons
vivants say in England. S.]; and that 's good Gaelic. -- Here is to
the Countess Isabelle of Croye, and a better husband to her than
Campobasso, who is a base Italian cullion! -- And now, Andrew Arnot,
what said the muleteer to this yeoman of thine?"

"Why, he told him in secrecy, if it please your Lordship," continued
Arnot, "that these two ladies whom he had presently before convoyed
up to the Castle in the close litters, were great ladies, who had
been living in secret at his house for some days, and that the
King had visited them more than once very privately, and had done
them great honour; and that they had fled up to the Castle, as he
believed, for fear of the Count de Crevecoeur, the Duke of Burgundy's
ambassador, whose approach was just announced by an advanced
courier."

"Ay, Andrew, come you there to me?" said Guthrie. "Then I will be
sworn it was the Countess whose voice I heard singing to the lute,
as I came even now through the inner court -- the sound came from
the bay windows of the Dauphin's Tower; and such melody was there
as no one ever heard before in the Castle of Plessis of the Park.
By my faith, I thought it was the music of the Fairy Melusina's
making. There I stood -- though I knew your board was covered, and
that you were all impatient -- there I stood like --"

[The Fairy Melusina: a water fay who married a mortal on condition
that she should be allowed to spend her Saturdays in deep seclusion.
This promise, after many years, was broken, and Melusina, half
serpent, half woman, was discovered swimming in a bath. For this
breach of faith on the part of her husband, Melusina was compelled
to leave her home. She regularly returned, however, before the death
of any of the lords of her family, and by her wailings foretold
that event. Her history is closely interwoven with the legends of
the Banshee and Mermaid.]

"-- Like an ass, Johnny Guthrie," said his commander; "thy long
nose smelling the dinner, thy long ears hearing the music, and thy
short discretion not enabling thee to decide which of them thou
didst prefer. -- Hark! is that not the Cathedral bell tolling to
vespers? -- Sure it cannot be that time yet? The mad old sexton
has toll'd evensong an hour too soon."

"In faith, the bell rings but too justly the hour," said Cunningham;
"yonder the sun is sinking on the west side of the fair plain."

"Ay," said the Lord Crawford, "is it even so? -- Well, lads, we
must live within compass. -- Fair and soft goes far -- slow fire
makes sweet malt -- to be merry and wise is a sound proverb. --
One other rouse to the weal of old Scotland, and then each man to
his duty."

The parting cup was emptied, and the guests dismissed -- the stately
old Baron taking the Balafre's arm, under pretence of giving him
some instructions concerning his nephew, but, perhaps, in reality,
lest his own lofty pace should seem in the public eye less steady
than became his rank and high command. A serious countenance did
he bear as he passed through the two courts which separated his
lodging from the festal chamber, and solemn as the gravity of a
hogshead was the farewell caution with which he prayed Ludovic to
attend his nephew's motions, especially in the matters of wenches
and wine cups.

Meanwhile, not a word that was spoken concerning the beautiful
Countess Isabelle had escaped the young Durward, who, conducted
into a small cabin, which he was to share with his uncle's page,
made his new and lowly abode the scene of much high musing. The
reader will easily imagine that the young soldier should build a
fine romance on such a foundation as the supposed, or rather the
assumed, identification of the Maiden of the Turret, to whose lay
he had listened with so much interest, and the fair cup bearer of
Maitre Pierre, with a fugitive Countess of rank and wealth, flying
from the pursuit of a hated lover, the favourite of an oppressive
guardian, who abused his feudal power. There was an interlude in
Quentin's vision concerning Maitre Pierre, who seemed to exercise
such authority even over the formidable officer from whose hands
he had that day, with much difficulty, made his escape. At length
the youth's reveries, which had been respected by little Will Harper,
the companion of his cell, were broken in upon by the return of his
uncle, who commanded Quentin to bed, that he might arise betimes
in the morning, and attend him to his Majesty's antechamber, to
which he was called by his hour of duty, along with five of his
comrades.


CHAPTER VIII: THE ENVOY

Be thou as lightning in the eyes of France;
For ere thou canst report I will be there.
The thunder of my cannon shall be heard --
So, hence! be thou the trumpet of our wrath.

KING JOHN


Had sloth been a temptation by which Durward was easily beset,
the noise with which the caserne of the guards resounded after the
first toll of primes, had certainly banished the siren from his
couch; but the discipline of his father's tower, and of the convent
of Aberbrothick, had taught him to start with the dawn; and he did
on his clothes gaily, amid the sounding of bugles and the clash of
armour, which announced the change of the vigilant guards -- some
of whom were returning to barracks after their nightly duty, whilst
some were marching out to that of the morning -- and others, again,
amongst whom was his uncle, were arming for immediate attendance
upon the person of Louis. Quentin Durward soon put on, with the
feelings of so young a man on such an occasion, the splendid dress
and arms appertaining to his new situation; and his uncle, who
looked with great accuracy and interest to see that he was completely
fitted out in every respect, did not conceal his satisfaction at
the improvement which had been thus made in his nephew's appearance.

"If thou dost prove as faithful and bold as thou art well favoured,
I shall have in thee one of the handsomest and best esquires in
the Guard, which cannot but be an honour to thy mother's family.
Follow me to the presence chamber; and see thou keep close at my
shoulder."

So saying, he took up a partisan, large, weighty, and beautifully
inlaid and ornamented, and directing his nephew to assume a lighter
weapon of a similar description, they proceeded to the inner court
of the palace, where their comrades, who were to form the guard of
the interior apartments, were already drawn up and under arms --
the squires each standing behind their masters, to whom they thus
formed a second rank. Here were also in attendance many yeomen
prickers, with gallant horses and noble dogs, on which Quentin
looked with such inquisitive delight that his uncle was obliged
more than once to remind him that the animals were not there for
his private amusement, but for the King's, who had a strong passion
for the chase, one of the few inclinations which he indulged even
when coming in competition with his course of policy; being so
strict a protector of the game in the royal forests that it was
currently said you might kill a man with greater impunity than a
stag.

On a signal given, the Guards were put into motion by the command
of Le Balafre, who acted as officer upon the occasion; and, after
some minutiae of word and signal, which all served to show the extreme
and punctilious jealousy with which their duty was performed, they
marched into the hall of audience where the King was immediately
expected.

New as Quentin was to scenes of splendour, the effect of that
which was now before him rather disappointed the expectations which
he had formed of the brilliancy of a court. There were household
officers, indeed, richly attired; there were guards gallantly armed,
and there were domestics of various degrees. But he saw none of
the ancient counsellors of the kingdom, none of the high officers
of the crown, heard none of the names which in those days sounded
an alarum to chivalry; saw none either of those generals or leaders,
who, possessed of the full prime of manhood, were the strength
of France, or of the more youthful and fiery nobles, those early
aspirants after honour, who were her pride. The jealous habits,
the reserved manners, the deep and artful policy of the King, had
estranged this splendid circle from the throne, and they were only
called around it upon certain stated and formal occasions, when
they went reluctantly, and returned joyfully, as the animals in
the fable are supposed to have approached and left the den of the
lion.

The very few persons who seemed to be there in the character of
counsellors were mean looking men, whose countenances sometimes
expressed sagacity, but whose manners showed they were called into
a sphere for which their previous education and habits had qualified
them but indifferently. One or two persons, however, did appear
to Durward to possess a more noble mien, and the strictness of the
present duty was not such as to prevent his uncle's communicating
the names of those whom he thus distinguished.

With the Lord Crawford, who was in attendance, dressed in the rich
habit of his office, and holding a leading staff of silver in his
hand, Quentin, as well as the reader, was already acquainted. Among
others, who seemed of quality, the most remarkable was the Count
de Dunois, the son of that celebrated Dunois, known by the name of
the Bastard of Orleans, who, fighting under the banner of Jeanne
d'Arc, acted such a distinguished part in liberating France from
the English yoke. His son well supported the high renown which had
descended to him from such an honoured source; and, notwithstanding
his connexion with the royal family, and his hereditary popularity
both with the nobles and the people, Dunois had, upon all occasions,
manifested such an open, frank loyalty of character that he seemed
to have escaped all suspicion, even on the part of the jealous
Louis, who loved to see him near his person, and sometimes even
called him to his councils. Although accounted complete in all the
exercises of chivalry, and possessed of much of the character of
what was then termed a perfect knight, the person of the Count was
far from being a model of romantic beauty. He was under the common
size, though very strongly built, and his legs rather curved
outwards, into that make which is more convenient for horseback,
than elegant in a pedestrian. His shoulders were broad, his hair
black, his complexion swarthy, his arms remarkably long and nervous.
The features of his countenance were irregular, even to ugliness;
yet, after all, there was an air of conscious worth and nobility
about the Count de Dunois, which stamped, at the first glance, the
character of the high born nobleman and the undaunted soldier. His
mien was bold and upright, his step free and manly, and the harshness
of his countenance was dignified by a glance like an eagle, and a
frown like a lion. His dress was a hunting suit, rather sumptuous
than gay, and he acted on most occasions as Grand Huntsman, though
we are not inclined to believe that he actually held the office.

Upon the arm of his relation Dunois, walking with a step so slow
and melancholy that he seemed to rest on his kinsman and supporter,
came Louis Duke of Orleans, the first prince of the Blood Royal
(afterwards King, by the name of Louis XII), and to whom the guards
and attendants rendered their homage as such. The jealously watched
object of Louis's suspicions, this Prince, who, failing the King's
offspring, was heir to the kingdom, was not suffered to absent
himself from Court, and, while residing there, was alike denied
employment and countenance. The dejection which his degraded and
almost captive state naturally impressed on the deportment of this
unfortunate Prince, was at this moment greatly increased by his
consciousness that the King meditated, with respect to him, one of
the most cruel and unjust actions which a tyrant could commit, by
compelling him to give his hand to the Princess Joan of France,
the younger daughter of Louis, to whom he had been contracted in
infancy, but whose deformed person rendered the insisting upon such
an agreement an act of abominable rigour.

The exterior of this unhappy Prince was in no respect distinguished
by personal advantages; and in mind, he was of a gentle, mild and
beneficent disposition, qualities which were visible even through
the veil of extreme dejection with which his natural character
was at present obscured. Quentin observed that the Duke studiously
avoided even looking at the Royal Guards, and when he returned their
salute, that he kept his eyes bent on the ground, as if he feared
the King's jealousy might have construed the gesture of ordinary
courtesy as arising from the purpose of establishing a separate
and personal interest among them.

Very different was the conduct of the proud Cardinal and Prelate,
John of Balue, the favourite minister of Louis for the time, whose
rise and character bore as close a resemblance to that of Wolsey,
as the difference betwixt the crafty and politic Louis and the
headlong and rash Henry VIII of England would permit. The former
had raised his minister from the lowest rank, to the dignity, or
at least to the emoluments, of Grand Almoner of France, loaded him
with benefices, and obtained for him the hat of a cardinal; and
although he was too cautious to repose in the ambitious Balue the
unbounded power and trust which Henry placed in Wolsey, yet he was
more influenced by him than by any other of his avowed counsellors.
The Cardinal, accordingly, had not escaped the error incidental to
those who are suddenly raised to power from an obscure situation,
for he entertained a strong persuasion, dazzled doubtlessly by
the suddenness of his elevation, that his capacity was equal to
intermeddling with affairs of every kind, even those most foreign
to his profession and studies. Tall and ungainly in his person,
he affected gallantry and admiration of the fair sex, although his
manners rendered his pretensions absurd, and his profession marked
them as indecorous. Some male or female flatterer had, in evil hour,
possessed him with the idea that there was much beauty of contour
in a pair of huge, substantial legs, which he had derived from his
father, a car man of Limoges -- or, according to other authorities,
a miller of Verdun, and with this idea he had become so infatuated
that he always had his cardinal's robes a little looped up on one
side, that the sturdy proportion of his limbs might not escape
observation. As he swept through the stately apartment in his
crimson dress and rich cope, he stopped repeatedly to look at the
arms and appointments of the cavaliers on guard, asked them several
questions in an authoritative tone, and took upon him to censure
some of them for what he termed irregularities of discipline, in
language to which these experienced soldiers dared no reply, although
it was plain they listened to it with impatience and with contempt.

[Wolsey (1471-1530): at one time the chief favourite of Henry VIII.
He was raised from obscurity by that sovereign to be Archbishop of
York, Lord Chancellor of England, and Cardinal. As legate of the
Pope, he gained the ill will of Henry by his failure to secure
that king's divorce. He was deprived of his offices, his property
was confiscated to the crown, and in 1530 he was arrested for high
treason, but died on his way to trial.]

"Is the King aware," said Dunois to the Cardinal, "that the Burgundian
Envoy is peremptory in demanding an audience?"

"He is," answered the Cardinal; "and here, as I think, comes the
all sufficient Oliver Dain, to let us know the royal pleasure."

As he spoke, a remarkable person, who then divided the favour
of Louis with the proud Cardinal himself, entered from the inner
apartment, but without any of that important and consequential
demeanour which marked the full blown dignity of the churchman.
On the contrary, this was a little, pale, meagre man, whose black
silk jerkin and hose, without either coat, cloak, or cassock,
formed a dress ill qualified to set off to advantage a very ordinary
person. He carried a silver basin in his hand, and a napkin flung
over his arm indicated his menial capacity. His visage was penetrating
and quick, although he endeavoured to banish such expression from
his features by keeping his eyes fixed on the ground, while, with
the stealthy and quiet pace of a cat, he seemed modestly rather to
glide than to walk through the apartment. But though modesty may
easily obscure worth, it cannot hide court favour; and all attempts
to steal unperceived through the presence chamber were vain, on
the part of one known to have such possession of the King's ear as
had been attained by his celebrated barber and groom of the chamber,
Oliver le Dain, called sometimes Oliver le Mauvais, and sometimes
Oliver le Diable, epithets derived from the unscrupulous cunning with
which he assisted in the execution of the schemes of his master's
tortuous policy. At present he spoke earnestly for a few moments
with the Count de Dunois, who instantly left the chamber, while
the tonsor glided quietly back towards the royal apartment whence
he had issued, every one giving place to him; which civility he only
acknowledged by the most humble inclination of the body, excepting
in a very few instances, where he made one or two persons the
subject of envy to all the other courtiers, by whispering a single
word in their ear; and at the same time muttering something of the
duties of his place, he escaped from their replies as well as from
the eager solicitations of those who wished to attract his notice.
Ludovic Lesly had the good fortune to be one of the individuals
who, on the present occasion, was favoured by Oliver with a single
word, to assure him that his matter was fortunately terminated.

Presently afterwards he had another proof of the same agreeable
tidings; for Quentin's old acquaintance, Tristan l'Hermite, the
Provost Marshal of the royal household, entered the apartment, and
came straight to the place where Balafre was posted. This formidable
officer's uniform, which was very rich, had only the effect of making
his sinister countenance and bad mien more strikingly remarkable,
and the tone, which he meant for conciliatory, was like nothing so
much as the growling of a bear. The import of his words, however,
was more amicable than the voice in which they were pronounced. He
regretted the mistake which had fallen between them on the preceding
day, and observed it was owing to the Sieur Le Balafre's nephew's
not wearing the uniform of his corps, or announcing himself as
belonging to it, which had led him into the error for which he now
asked forgiveness.

Ludovic Lesly made the necessary reply, and as soon as Tristan had
turned away, observed to his nephew that they had now the distinction
of having a mortal enemy from henceforward in the person of this
dreaded officer.

"But we are above his volee [brood, rank, class] -- a soldier,"
said he, "who does his duty, may laugh at the Provost Marshal."

Quentin could not help being of his uncle's opinion, for, as Tristan
parted from them, it was with the look of angry defiance which the
bear casts upon the hunter whose spear has wounded him. Indeed,
even when less strongly moved, the sullen eye of this official
expressed a malevolence of purpose which made men shudder to meet
his glance; and the thrill of the young Scot was the deeper and
more abhorrent, that he seemed to himself still to feel on his
shoulders the grasp of the two death doing functionaries of this
fatal officer.

Meanwhile, Oliver, after he had prowled around the room in the
stealthy manner which we have endeavoured to describe -- all, even
the highest officers making way for him, and loading him with their
ceremonious attentions, which his modesty seemed desirous to avoid
-- again entered the inner apartment, the doors of which were
presently thrown open, and King Louis entered the presence chamber.

Quentin, like all others, turned his eyes upon him; and started so
suddenly that he almost dropped his weapon, when he recognised in
the King of France that silk merchant, Maitre Pierre, who had been
the companion of his morning walk. Singular suspicions respecting
the real rank of this person had at different times crossed his
thoughts; but this, the proved reality, was wilder than his wildest
conjecture.

The stern look of his uncle, offended at this breach of the decorum
of his office, recalled him to himself; but not a little was he
astonished when the King, whose quick eye had at once discovered
him, walked straight to the place where he was posted, without
taking notice of any one else.

"So;" he said, "young man, I am told you have been brawling on your
first arrival in Touraine; but I pardon you, as it was chiefly the
fault of a foolish old merchant, who thought your Caledonian blood
required to be heated in the morning with Vin de Beaulne. If I
can find him, I will make him an example to those who debauch my
Guards. -- Balafre," he added, speaking to Lesly, "your kinsman
is a fair youth, though a fiery. We love to cherish such spirits,
and mean to make more than ever we did of the brave men who are
around us. Let the year, day, hour, and minute of your nephew's
birth be written down and given to Oliver Dain."

Le Balafre bowed to the ground, and re-assumed his erect military
position, as one who would show by his demeanour his promptitude
to act in the King's quarrel or defence. Quentin, in the meantime,
recovered from his first surprise, studied the King's appearance
more attentively, and was surprised to find how differently he now
construed his deportment and features than he had done at their
first interview.

These were not much changed in exterior, for Louis, always a scorner
of outward show, wore, on the present occasion, an old dark blue
hunting dress, not much better than the plain burgher suit of the
preceding day, and garnished with a huge rosary of ebony which had
been sent to him by no less a personage than the Grand Seignior,
with an attestation that it had been used by a Coptic hermit on
Mount Lebanon, a personage of profound sanctity. And instead of
his cap with a single image, he now wore a hat, the band of which
was garnished with at least a dozen of little paltry figures of
saints stamped in lead. But those eyes, which, according to Quentin's
former impression, only twinkled with the love of gain, had, now
that they were known to be the property of an able and powerful
monarch, a piercing and majestic glance; and those wrinkles on the
brow, which he had supposed were formed during a long series of
petty schemes of commerce, seemed now the furrows which sagacity
had worn while toiling in meditation upon the fate of nations.

Presently after the King's appearance, the Princesses of France,
with the ladies of their suite, entered the apartment. With the
eldest, afterwards married to Peter of Bourbon, and known in French
history by the name of the Lady of Beaujeu, our story has but little
to do. She was tall, and rather handsome, possessed eloquence, talent,
and much of her father's sagacity, who reposed great confidence in
her, and loved her as well perhaps as he loved any one.

The younger sister, the unfortunate Joan, the destined bride of
the Duke of Orleans, advanced timidly by the side of her sister,
conscious of a total want of those external qualities which women
are most desirous of possessing, or being thought to possess. She
was pale, thin, and sickly in her complexion; her shape visibly bent
to one side, and her gait was so unequal that she might be called
lame. A fine set of teeth, and eyes which were expressive of
melancholy, softness, and resignation, with a quantity of light
brown locks, were the only redeeming points which flattery itself
could have dared to number, to counteract the general homeliness
of her face and figure. To complete the picture, it was easy to
remark, from the Princess's negligence in dress and the timidity of
her manner, that she had an unusual and distressing consciousness
of her own plainness of appearance, and did not dare to make any
of those attempts to mend by manners or by art what nature had left
amiss, or in any other way to exert a power of pleasing. The King
(who loved her not) stepped hastily to her as she entered.

"How now," he said, "our world contemning daughter -- Are you robed
for a hunting party, or for the convent, this morning? Speak --
answer."

"For which your highness pleases, sire," said the Princess, scarce
raising her voice above her breath.

"Ay, doubtless, you would persuade me it is your desire to quit
the Court, Joan, and renounce the world and its vanities. -- Ha!
maiden, wouldst thou have it thought that we, the first born of
Holy Church, would refuse our daughter to Heaven? -- Our Lady and
Saint Martin forbid we should refuse the offering, were it worthy
of the altar, or were thy vocation in truth thitherward!"

So saying, the King crossed himself devoutly, looking in
the meantime, as appeared to Quentin, very like a cunning vassal,
who was depreciating the merit of something which he was desirous
to keep to himself, in order that he might stand excused for not
offering it to his chief or superior.

"Dares he thus play the hypocrite with Heaven," thought Durward,
"and sport with God and the Saints, as he may safely do with men,
who dare not search his nature too closely?"

Louis meantime resumed, after a moment's mental devotion, "No,
fair daughter, I and another know your real mind better. Ha! fair
cousin of Orleans, do we not? Approach, fair sir, and lead this
devoted vestal of ours to her horse."

Orleans started when the King spoke and hastened to obey him; but
with such precipitation of step, and confusion, that Louis called
out, "Nay, cousin, rein your gallantry, and look before you. Why,
what a headlong matter a gallant's haste is on some occasions! You
had well nigh taken Anne's hand instead of her sister's. -- Sir,
must I give Joan's to you myself?"

The unhappy Prince looked up, and shuddered like a child, when
forced to touch something at which it has instinctive horror --
then making an effort, took the hand which the Princess neither gave
nor yet withheld. As they stood, her cold, damp fingers enclosed
in his trembling hand, with their eyes looking on the ground, it
would have been difficult to say which of these two youthful beings
was rendered more utterly miserable -- the Duke, who felt himself
fettered to the object of his aversion by bonds which he durst not
tear asunder, or the unfortunate young woman, who too plainly saw
that she was an object of abhorrence to him, to gain whose kindness
she would willingly have died.

"And now to horse, gentlemen and ladies -- we will ourselves lead
forth our daughter of Beaujeu," said the King; "and God's blessing
and Saint Hubert's be on our morning's sport!"

"I am, I fear, doomed to interrupt it, Sire," said the Comte de
Dunois; "the Burgundian Envoy is before the gates of the Castle
and demands an audience."

"Demands an audience, Dunois?" replied the King. "Did you not answer
him, as we sent you word by Oliver, that we were not at leisure
to see him today, -- and that tomorrow was the festival of Saint
Martin, which, please Heaven, we would disturb by no earthly thoughts
-- and that on the succeeding day we were designed for Amboise --
but that we would not fail to appoint him as early an audience,
when we returned, as our pressing affairs would permit."

"All this I said," answered Dunois, "but yet, Sire --"

"Pasques dieu! man, what is it that thus sticks in thy throat?" said
the King. "This Burgundian's terms must have been hard of digestion."

"Had not my duty, your Grace's commands, and his character as
an envoy, restrained me," said Dunois, "he should have tried to
digest them himself; for, by our Lady of Orleans, I had more mind
to have made him eat his own words, than to have brought them to
your Majesty."

"Body of me," said the King, "it is strange that thou, one of
the most impatient fellows alive, should have so little sympathy
with the like infirmity in our blunt and fiery cousin, Charles of
Burgundy. Why, man, I mind his blustering messages no more than the
towers of this Castle regard the whistling of the northeast wind,
which comes from Flanders, as well as this brawling Envoy."

"Know then, Sire," replied Dunois, "that the Count of Crevecoeur
tarries below, with his retinue of pursuivants and trumpets, and
says, that since your Majesty refuses him the audience which his
master has instructed him to demand, upon matters of most pressing
concern, he will remain there till midnight, and accost your Majesty
at whatever hour you are pleased to issue from your Castle, whether
for business, exercise, or devotion; and that no consideration,
except the use of absolute force, shall compel him to desist from
this."

"He is a fool," said the King, with much composure. "Does the hot
headed Hainaulter think it any penance for a man of sense to remain
for twenty-four hours quiet within the walls of his Castle, when
he hath the affairs of a kingdom to occupy him? These impatient
coxcombs think that all men, like themselves, are miserable,
save when in saddle and stirrup. Let the dogs be put up, and well
looked to, gentle Dunois. -- We will hold council today, instead
of hunting."

"My Liege," answered Dunois, "you will not thus rid yourself of
Crevecoeur; for his master's instructions are, that if he hath not
this audience which he demands, he shall nail his gauntlet to the
palisade before the Castle in token of mortal defiance on the part
of his master, shall renounce the Duke's fealty to France, and
declare instant war."

"Ay," said Louis without any perceptible alteration of voice, but
frowning until his piercing dark eyes became almost invisible under
his shaggy eyebrows, "is it even so? will our ancient vassal prove
so masterful -- our dear cousin treat us thus unkindly? -- Nay,
then, Dunois, we must unfold the Oriflamme, and cry Dennis Montjoye!"

[Montjoie St. Denis, a former war cry of the French soldiers. Saint
Denis was a patron saint of France who suffered martyrdom in the
third century. Montjoie (mont and joie) may be the name of the
hill where the saint met his death; or it may signify that any such
place is a "hill of joy."]

"Marry and amen, and in a most happy hour!" said the martial Dunois;
and the guards in the hall, unable to resist the same impulse,
stirred each upon his post, so as to produce a low but distinct
sound of clashing arms. The King cast his eye proudly round, and,
for a moment, thought and looked like his heroic father.

But the excitement of the moment presently gave way to the host
of political considerations, which, at that conjuncture, rendered
an open breach with Burgundy so peculiarly perilous. Edward IV, a
brave and victorious king, who had in his own person fought thirty
battles, was now established on the throne of England, was brother
to the Duchess of Burgundy, and, it might well be supposed, waited
but a rupture between his near connexion and Louis, to carry into
France, through the ever open gate of Calais, those arms which had
been triumphant in the English civil wars, and to obliterate the
recollection of internal dissensions by that most popular of all
occupations amongst the English, an invasion of France. To this
consideration was added the uncertain faith of the Duke of Bretagne,
and other weighty subjects of reflection. So that, after a deep
pause, when Louis again spoke, although in the same tone, it was
with an altered spirit. "But God forbid," he said, "that aught
less than necessity should make us, the Most Christian' King, give
cause to the effusion of Christian blood, if anything short of
dishonour may avert such a calamity. We tender our subjects' safety
dearer than the ruffle which our own dignity may receive from the
rude breath of a malapert ambassador, who hath perhaps exceeded the
errand with which he was charged. -- Admit the Envoy of Burgundy
to our presence."

"Beati pacifici, [blessed are the peace makers]" said the Cardinal
Balue.

"True; and your Eminence knoweth that they who humble themselves
shall be exalted," added the King.

The Cardinal spoke an Amen, to which few assented, for even the
pale cheek of Orleans kindled with shame, and Balafre suppressed
his feelings so little, as to let the butt end of his partisan
fall heavily on the floor -- a movement of impatience for which
he underwent a bitter reproof from the Cardinal, with a lecture on
the mode of handling his arms when in presence of the Sovereign.
The King himself seemed unusually embarrassed at the silence around
him.

"You are pensive, Dunois," he said. "You disapprove of our giving
way to this hot headed Envoy."

"By no means,"' said Dunois; "I meddle not with matters beyond my
sphere. I was thinking of asking a boon of your Majesty."

"A boon, Dunois -- what is it? You are an unfrequent suitor, and
may count on our favour."

"I would, then, your Majesty would send me to Evreux to regulate
the clergy," said Dunois, with military frankness.

"That were indeed beyond thy sphere," replied the King, smiling.

"I might order priests as well," replied the Count, "as my Lord
Bishop of Evreux, or my Lord Cardinal, if he likes the title better,
can exercise the soldiers of your Majesty's guard."

The King smiled again, and more mysteriously, while he whispered
Dunois, "The time may come when you and I will regulate the priests
together. -- But this is for the present a good conceited animal
of a Bishop. Ah, Dunois! Rome, Rome puts him and other burdens upon
us. -- But patience, cousin, and shuffle the cards, till our hand
is a stronger one."

[Dr. Dryasdust here remarks that cards, said to have been invented
in a preceding reign, for the amusement of Charles V during the
intervals of his mental disorder, seem speedily to have become
common among the courtiers. . . . The alleged origin of the invention
of cards produced one of the shrewdest replies I have ever heard
given in evidence. It was made by the late Dr. Gregory of Edinburgh
to a counsel of great eminence at the Scottish bar. The Doctor's
testimony went to prove the insanity of the party whose mental
capacity was the point at issue. On a cross interrogation, he admitted
that the person in question played admirably at whist. "And do you
seriously say, doctor," said the learned counsel, "that a person
having a superior capacity for a game so difficult, and which requires
in a preeminent degree, memory, judgment, and combination, can be
at the same time deranged in his understanding?" -- "I am no card
player," said the doctor, with great address, "but I have read in
history that cards were invented for the amusement of an insane
king." The consequences of this reply were decisive. S.]

The flourish of trumpets in the courtyard now announced the arrival
of the Burgundian nobleman. All in the presence chamber made haste
to arrange themselves according to their proper places of precedence,
the King and his daughters remaining in the centre of the assembly.

The Count of Crevecoeur, a renowned and undaunted warrior, entered
the apartment; and, contrary to the usage among the envoys of friendly
powers, he appeared all armed, excepting his head, in a gorgeous
suit of the most superb Milan armour, made of steel, inlaid and
embossed with gold, which was wrought into the fantastic taste called
the Arabesque. Around his neck and over his polished cuirass, hung
his master's order of the Golden Fleece, one of the most honoured
associations of chivalry then known in Christendom. A handsome
page bore his helmet behind him, a herald preceded him, bearing
his letters of credence which he offered on his knee to the King;
while the ambassador himself paused in the midst of the hall, as
if to give all present time to admire his lofty look, commanding
stature, and undaunted composure of countenance and manner. The
rest of his attendants waited in the antechamber, or courtyard.

[The military order of the Golden Fleece was instituted by Philip
the Good, Duke of Burgundy, in the year 1429, the King of Spain
being grand master of the order, as Duke of Burgundy.]

"Approach, Seignior Count de Crevecoeur," said Louis, after a
moment's glance at his commission; "we need not our cousin's letters
of credence, either to introduce to us a warrior so well known,
or to assure us of your highly deserved credit with your master.
We trust that your fair partner, who shares some of our ancestral
blood, is in good health. Had you brought her in your hand, Seignior
Count, we might have thought you wore your armour, on this unwonted
occasion, to maintain the superiority of her charms against the
amorous chivalry of France. As it is, we cannot guess the reason
of this complete panoply."

"Sire," replied the ambassador, "the Count of Crevecoeur must
lament his misfortune, and entreat your forgiveness, that he cannot,
on this occasion, reply with such humble deference as is due to
the royal courtesy with which your Majesty has honoured him. But,
although it is only the voice of Philip Crevecoeur de Cordes which
speaks, the words which he utters must be those of his gracious
Lord and Sovereign, the Duke of Burgundy."

"And what has Crevecoeur to say in the words of Burgundy?" said
Louis, with an assumption of sufficient dignity. "Yet hold --
remember, that in this presence, Philip Crevecoeur de Cordes speaks
to him who is his Sovereign's Sovereign."

Crevecoeur bowed, and then spoke aloud: "King of France, the mighty
Duke of Burgundy once more sends you a written schedule of the
wrongs and oppressions committed on his frontiers by your Majesty's
garrisons and officers; and the first point of inquiry is, whether
it is your Majesty's purpose to make him amends for these injuries?"

The King, looking slightly at the memorial which the herald
delivered to him upon his knee, said, "These matters have been
already long before our Council. Of the injuries complained of,
some are in requital of those sustained by my subjects, some are
affirmed without any proof, some have been retaliated by the Duke's
garrisons and soldiers; and if there remain any which fall under
none of those predicaments, we are not, as a Christian prince,
averse to make satisfaction for wrongs actually sustained by our
neighbour, though committed not only without our countenance, but
against our express order."'

"I will convey your Majesty's answer," said the ambassador, "to my
most gracious master; yet, let me say, that, as it is in no degree
different from the evasive replies which have already been returned
to his just complaints, I cannot hope that it will afford the means
of re-establishing peace and friendship betwixt France and Burgundy."

"Be that at God's pleasure," said the King. "It is not for dread
of thy master's arms, but for the sake of peace only, that I return
so temperate an answer to his injurious reproaches. Proceed with
thine errand."

"My master's next demand," said the ambassador, "is that your
Majesty will cease your secret and underhand dealings with his
towns of Ghent, Liege, and Malines. He requests that your Majesty
will recall the secret agents by whose means the discontents of
his good citizens of Flanders are inflamed; and dismiss from your
Majesty's dominions, or rather deliver up to the condign punishment
of their liege lord, those traitorous fugitives, who, having fled
from the scene of their machinations, have found too ready a refuge
in Paris, Orleans, Tours, and other French cities."

"Say to the Duke of Burgundy," replied the King, "that I know of no
such indirect practices as those with which he injuriously charges
me; that many subjects of France have frequent intercourse with the
good cities of Flanders, for the purpose of mutual benefit by free
traffic, which it would be as much contrary to the Duke's interest
as mine to interrupt; and that many Flemings have residence in my
kingdom, and enjoy the protection of my laws, for the same purpose;
but none, to our knowledge, for those of treason or mutiny against
the Duke. Proceed with your message -- you have heard my answer."

"As formerly, Sire, with pain," replied the Count of Crevecoeur;
"it not being of that direct or explicit nature which the Duke,
my master, will accept, in atonement for a long train of secret
machinations, not the less certain, though now disavowed by your
Majesty. But I proceed with my message. The Duke of Burgundy farther
requires the King of France to send back to his dominions without
delay, and under a secure safeguard, the persons of Isabelle Countess
of Croye, and of her relation and guardian the Countess Hameline,
of the same family, in respect the said Countess Isabelle, being,
by the law of the country and the feudal tenure of her estates, the
ward of the said Duke of Burgundy, hath fled from his dominions,
and from the charge which he, as a careful guardian, was willing
to extend over her, and is here maintained in secret by the King
of France and by him fortified in her contumacy to the Duke, her
natural lord and guardian, contrary to the laws of God and man, as
they ever have been acknowledged in civilized Europe. -- Once more
I pause for your Majesty's reply."

"You did well, Count de Crevecoeur," said Louis, scornfully, "to
begin your embassy at an early hour; for if it be your purpose
to call on me to account for the flight of every vassal whom your
master's heady passion may have driven from his dominions, the
head roll may last till sunset. Who can affirm that these ladies
are in my dominions? who can presume to say, if it be so, that I
have either countenanced their flight hither, or have received them
with offers of protection? Nay, who is it will assert, that, if
they are in France, their place of retirement is within my knowledge?"

"Sire," said Crevecoeur, "may it please your Majesty, I was provided
with a witness on this subject -- one who beheld these fugitive
ladies in the inn called the Fleur de Lys, not far from this
Castle -- one who saw your Majesty in their company, though under
the unworthy disguise of a burgess of Tours -- one who received
from them, in your royal presence, messages and letters to their
friends in Flanders -- all which he conveyed to the hand and ear
of the Duke of Burgundy."

"Bring them forward," said the King; "place the man before my face
who dares maintain these palpable falsehoods."

"You speak in triumph, my lord, for you are well aware that
this witness no longer exists. When he lived, he was called Zamet
Magraubin, by birth one of those Bohemian wanderers. He was yesterday
-- as I have learned -- executed by a party of your Majesty's Provost
Marshal, to prevent, doubtless, his standing here to verify what
he said of this matter to the Duke of Burgundy, in presence of his
Council, and of me, Philip Crevecoeur de Cordes."

"Now, by Our Lady of Embrun," said the King, "so gross are these
accusations, and so free of consciousness am I of aught that
approaches them, that, by the honour of a King, I laugh, rather
than am wroth at them. My Provost guard daily put to death, as is
their duty, thieves and vagabonds; and is my crown to be slandered
with whatever these thieves and vagabonds may have said to our hot
cousin of Burgundy and his wise counsellors? I pray you, tell my
kind cousin, if he loves such companions, he had best keep them in
his own estates; for here they are like to meet short shrift and
a tight cord."

"My master needs no such subjects, Sir King," answered the Count,
in a tone more disrespectful than he had yet permitted himself to
make use of; "for the noble Duke uses not to inquire of witches,
wandering Egyptians, or others, upon the destiny and fate of his
neighbours and allies."

"We have had patience enough, and to spare," said the King,
interrupting him; "and since thy sole errand here seems to be for
the purpose of insult, we will send some one in our name to the
Duke of Burgundy -- convinced, in thus demeaning thyself towards
us, thou hast exceeded thy commission, whatever that may have been."

"On the contrary," said Crevecoeur, "I have not yet acquitted
myself of it -- Hearken, Louis of Valois, King of France -- Hearken,
nobles and gentlemen, who may be present. -- Hearken, all good and
true men. -- And thou, Toison d'Or," addressing the herald, "make
proclamation after me. -- I, Philip Crevecoeur of Cordes, Count
of the Empire, and Knight of the honourable and princely Order of
the Golden Fleece, in the name of the most puissant Lord and Prince,
Charles, by the grace of God, Duke of Burgundy and Lotharingia,
of Brabant and Limbourg, of Luxembourg and of Gueldres; Earl of
Flanders and of Artois; Count Palatine of Hainault, of Holland,
Zealand, Namur, and Zutphen; Marquis of the Holy Empire; Lord
of Friezeland, Salines, and Malines, do give you, Louis, King
of France, openly to know, that you, having refused to remedy the
various griefs, wrongs, and offences, done and wrought by you, or
by and through your aid, suggestion, and instigation, against the
said Duke and his loving subjects, he, by my mouth, renounces all
allegiance and fealty towards your crown and dignity -- pronounces
you false and faithless; and defies you as a Prince, and as a man.
There lies my gage, in evidence of what I have said."

So saying, he plucked the gauntlet off his right hand, and flung
it down on the floor of the hall.

Until this last climax of audacity, there had been a deep silence
in the royal apartment during the extraordinary scene; but no sooner
had the clash of the gauntlet, when cast down, been echoed by the
deep voice of Toison d'Or, the Burgundian herald, with the ejaculation,
"Vive Bourgogne!" than there was a general tumult. While Dunois,
Orleans, old Lord Crawford, and one or two others, whose rank
authorized their interference, contended which should lift up the
gauntlet, the others in the hall exclaimed, "Strike him down! Cut
him to pieces! Comes he here to insult the King of France in his
own palace?"

But the King appeased the tumult by exclaiming, in a voice like
thunder, which overawed and silenced every other sound, "Silence,
my lieges, lay not a hand on the man, not a finger on the gage!
-- And you, Sir Count, of what is your life composed, or how is it
warranted, that you thus place it on the cast of a die so perilous?
or is your Duke made of a different metal from other princes, since
he thus asserts his pretended quarrel in a manner so unusual?"

"He is indeed framed of a different and more noble metal than the
other princes of Europe," said the undaunted Count of Crevecoeur;
"for, when not one of them dared to give shelter to you -- to you, I
say, King Louis -- when you were yet only Dauphin, an exile from
France, and pursued by the whole bitterness of your father's revenge,
and all the power of his kingdom, you were received and protected
like a brother by my noble master, whose generosity of disposition
you have so grossly misused. Farewell, Sire, my mission is discharged."

So saying, the Count de Crevecoeur left the apartment abruptly,
and without farther leave taking.

"After him -- after him -- take up the gauntlet and after him!" said
the King. "I mean not you, Dunois, nor you, my Lord of Crawford,
who, methinks, may be too old for such hot frays; nor you, cousin
of Orleans, who are too young for them. -- My Lord Cardinal --
my Lord Bishop of Auxerre -- it is your holy office to make peace
among princes; do you lift the gauntlet, and remonstrate with Count
Crevecoeur on the sin he has committed, in thus insulting a great
monarch in his own Court, and forcing us to bring the miseries of
war upon his kingdom, and that of his neighbour."

Upon this direct personal appeal, the Cardinal Balue proceeded to
lift the gauntlet, with such precaution as one would touch an adder
-- so great was apparently his aversion to this symbol of war --
and presently left the royal apartment to hasten after the challenger.

Louis paused and looked round the circle of his courtiers, most of
whom, except such as we have already distinguished, being men of
low birth, and raised to their rank in the King's household for
other gifts than courage or feats of arms, looked pale on each
other, and had obviously received an unpleasant impression from
the scene which had been just acted. Louis gazed on them with
contempt, and then said aloud, "Although the Count of Crevecoeur
be presumptuous and overweening, it must be confessed that in him
the Duke of Burgundy hath as bold a servant as ever bore message
for a prince. I would I knew where to find as faithful an Envoy to
carry back my answer."

"You do your French nobles injustice, Sire," said Dunois; "not one
of them but would carry a defiance to Burgundy on the point of his
sword."

"And, Sire," said old Crawford, "you wrong also the Scottish
gentlemen who serve you. I, or any of my followers, being of meet
rank, would not hesitate a moment to call yonder proud Count to a
reckoning; my own arm is yet strong enough for the purpose, if I
have but your Majesty's permission."

"But your Majesty," continued Dunois, "will employ us in no service
through which we may win honour to ourselves, to your Majesty, or
to France."

"Say rather," said the King, "that I will not give way, Dunois,
to the headlong impetuosity, which, on some punctilio of chivalry,
would wreck yourselves, the throne, France, and all. There is not
one of you who knows not how precious every hour of peace is at
this moment, when so necessary to heal the wounds of a distracted
country; yet there is not one of you who would not rush into war
on account of the tale of a wandering gipsy, or of some errant
damosel, whose reputation, perhaps, is scarce higher. -- Here comes
the Cardinal, and we trust with more pacific tidings. -- How now,
my Lord, -- have you brought the Count to reason and to temper?"

"Sire," said Balue, "my task hath been difficult. I put it to
yonder proud Count, how he dared to use towards your Majesty the
presumptuous reproach with which his audience had broken up, and
which must be understood as proceeding, not from his master, but from
his own insolence, and as placing him therefore in your Majesty's
discretion for what penalty you might think proper."

"You said right," replied the King; "and what was his answer?"

"The Count," continued the Cardinal, "had at that moment his foot
in the stirrup, ready to mount; and, on hearing my expostulation,
he turned his head without altering his position. 'Had I,' said
he, 'been fifty leagues distant, and had heard by report that a
question vituperative of my Prince had been asked by the King of
France, I had, even at that distance, instantly mounted, and returned
to disburden my mind of the answer which I gave him but now.'"

"I said, sirs," said the King, turning around, without any show of
angry emotion, "that in the Count Philip of Crevecoeur, our cousin
the Duke possesses as worthy a servant as ever rode at a prince's
right hand. -- But you prevailed with him to stay?"

"To stay for twenty-four hours; and in the meanwhile to receive
again his gage of defiance," said the Cardinal; "he has dismounted
at the Fleur de Lys."

Into these festivities, the heinousness of which was aggravated
by the fact that they included guests of both sexes, the
exasperated Wilder made irruption, and summarily terminated the
proceedings by knocking down the host. The disgrace was too much
for the poor lad. He forthwith sold his books and belongings,
and ran away, vaguely bound for America. But after considerable
privations, including the achievement of a destitution so complete
that a handful of grey peas, given him by a girl at a wake, seemed
a banquet, he turned his steps homeward, and, a reconciliation
having been patched up with his tutor, he was received once more
at college. In February, 1749, he took his degree, a low one, as
B.A., and quitted the university, leaving behind him, for relics
of that time, a scratched signature upon a window-pane, a 'folio'
Scapula scored liberally with 'promises to pay,' and a reputation
for much loitering at the college gates in the study of passing
humanity. Another habit which his associates recalled was his
writing of ballads when in want of funds.

These he would sell at five shillings apiece; and would afterwards
steal out in the twilight to hear them sung to the indiscriminate
but applauding audience of the Dublin streets.

What was to be done with a genius so unstable, so erratic?

Nothing, apparently, but to let him
qualify for orders, and for this he is
too young.

Thereupon ensues a sort of 'Martin's summer' in his changing life,--a
disengaged, delightful time when 'Master Noll' wanders irresponsibly
from house to house, fishing and flute-playing, or, of winter
evenings, taking the chair at the village inn.

When at last the moment came for his presentation to the Bishop
of Elphin, that prelate, sad to say, rejected him, perhaps because
of his college reputation, perhaps because of actual incompetence,
perhaps even, as tradition affirms, because he had the bad taste
to appear before his examiner in flaming scarlet breeches. After this
rebuff, tutoring was next tried.
But he had no sooner saved some thirty pounds by teaching, than he
threw up his engagement, bought a horse, and started once more for
America, by way of Cork. In six weeks he had returned penniless,
having substituted for his roadster a sorry jade, to which he
gave the contemptuous name of Fiddleback. He had also the
simplicity to wonder, on this occasion, that his mother was not
rejoiced to see him again.

His next ambition was to be a lawyer; and, to this end, a kindly
Uncle Contarine equipped him with fifty pounds for preliminary
studies. But on his way to London he was decoyed into gambling,
lost every farthing, and came home once more in bitter
self-abasement. Having now essayed both divinity and law, his next
attempt was physic; and, in 1752, fitted out afresh by his
long-suffering uncle, he started for, and succeeded in reaching,
Edinburgh.

Here more memories survive of his social qualities than of his
studies; and two years later he left the Scottish capital for
Leyden, rather, it may be conjectured, from a restless desire to
see the world than really to exchange the lectures of Monro for the
lectures of Albinus. At Newcastle (according to his own account)
he had the good fortune to be locked up as a Jacobite, and thus
escaped drowning, as the ship by which he was to have sailed to
Bordeaux sank at the mouth of the Garonne. Shortly afterwards he
arrived in Leyden. Gaubius and other Dutch professors figure
sonorously in his future works; but whether he had much experimental
knowledge of their instructions may be doubted.

What seems undeniable is, that the old seduction of play stripped him
of every shilling; so that, like Holberg before him, he set out
deliberately to make the tour of Europe on foot.

'Haud inexpertus loquor,' he wrote in after days, when praising
this mode of locomotion.
He first visited Flanders.

Thence he passed to France, Germany, Switzerland, and Italy,
supporting himself mainly by his flute, and by occasional disputations
at convents or universities. 'Sir,' said Boswell to Johnson, 'he
'disputed' his passage through Europe.' When on the 1st February,
1756, he landed at Dover, it was with empty pockets. But he had
sent home to his brother in Ireland his first rough sketch for the
poem of 'The Traveller'.

He was now seven-and-twenty. He had seen and suffered much, but he was
to have further trials before drifting definitely into literature.

Between Dover and London, it has been surmised, he made a tentative
appearance as a strolling player.

His next ascertained part was that of an apothecary's assistant
on Fish Street Hill. From this, with the opportune aid of an
Edinburgh friend, he proceeded--to use an eighteenth-century
phrase--a poor physician in the Bankside, Southwark, where least of
all, perhaps, was London's fabled pavement to be found.
So little of it, in fact, fell to Goldsmith's share, that we
speedily find him reduced to the rank of reader and corrector
of the press to Samuel Richardson, printer, of Salisbury Court,
author of 'Clarissa'.
Later still he is acting as help or substitute in Dr. Milner's 'classical
academy' at Peckham. Here, at last, chance seemed to open to him the
prospect of a literary life.

He had already, says report, submitted a manuscript tragedy to
Richardson's judgement; and something he said at Dr. Milner's
table attracted the attention of an occasional visitor there, the
bookseller Griffiths, who was also proprietor of the 'Monthly
Review'. He invited Dr. Milner's usher to try his hand at
criticism; and finally, in April, 1757, Goldsmith was bound over
for a year to that venerable lady whom George Primrose dubs 'the
'antiqua mater' of Grub Street'--in other words, he was engaged for
bed, board, and a fixed salary to supply copy-of-all-work to his
master's magazine.

The arrangement thus concluded was not calculated to endure. After some
five months of labour from nine till two, and often later, it came
suddenly to an end. No clear explanation of the breach is
forthcoming, but mere incompatability of temper would probably
supply a sufficient ground for disagreement.

Goldsmith, it is said, complained that the bookseller and his wife
treated him ill, and denied him ordinary comforts; added to which
the lady, a harder taskmistress even than the 'antiqua mater' above
referred to, joined with her husband in 'editing' his articles, a
course which, hard though it may seem, is not unprecedented.

However this may be, either in September or October, 1757, he was
again upon the world, existing precariously from hand to mouth.

'By a very little practice as a physician, and very little
reputation as a poet [a title which, as Prior suggests, possibly
means no more than author], I make a shift to live.' So he wrote
to his brother-in-law in December.

What his literary occupations were cannot be definitely stated; but,
if not prepared before, they probably included the translation of
a remarkable work issued by Griffiths and others in the ensuing
February.

This was the 'Memoirs of a Protestant, condemned to the Galleys of
France for his Religion', being the authentic record of the sufferings
of one Jean Marteilhe of Bergerac, a book of which Michelet has
said that it is 'written as if between earth and heaven.' Marteilhe,
who died at Cuylenberg in 1777, was living in Holland in 1758; and
it may be that Goldsmith had seen or heard of him during his own
stay in that country.

The translation, however, did not bear Goldsmith's name, but
that of James Willington, one of his old class-fellows at Trinity
College. Nevertheless, Prior says distinctly that Griffiths (who
should have known) declared it to be by Goldsmith.
Moreover, the French original had been catalogued in Griffiths'
magazine in the second month of Goldsmith's servitude, a circumstance
which colourably supplies the reason for its subsequent rendering
into English.

The publication of Marteilhe's 'Memoirs' had no influence upon
Goldsmith's fortunes, for, in a short time, he was again installed
at Peckham, in place of Dr.

Milner invalided, waiting hopefully for the fulfilment of a promise
by his old master to procure him a medical appointment on a
foreign station. It is probably that, with a view to provide the
needful funds for this expatriation, he now began to sketch the
little volume afterwards published under the title of 'An Enquiry
into the Present State of Polite Learning in Europe', for towards
the middle of the year we find him addressing long letters to his
relatives in Ireland to enlist their aid in soliciting subscriptions
for this book.

At length the desired advancement was obtained,--a nomination as
a physician and surgeon to one of the factories on the coast of
Coromandel. But banishment to the East Indies was not to be his
destiny.
For some unexplained reason the project came to nothing; and
then--like Roderick Random--he presented himself at Surgeons' Hall
for the more modest office of a hospital mate.

This was on the 21st of December, 1758. The curt official record states
that he was 'found not qualified.' What made matters worse, the
necessity for a decent appearance before the examiners had involved
him in new obligations to Griffiths, out of which arose fresh
difficulties. To pay his landlady, whose husband was arrested for
debt, he pawned the suit he had procured by Griffiths' aid; and
he also raised money on some volumes which had been sent him for
review.

Thereupon ensued an angry and humiliating correspondence with
the bookseller, as a result of which Griffiths, nevertheless,
appears to have held his hand.

By this time Goldsmith had moved into those historic but now
non-existent lodgings in 12 Green Arbour Court, Old Bailey, which
have been photographed for ever in Irving's 'Tales of a Traveller'.
It was here that the foregoing incidents took place; and it was
here also that, early in 1759, 'in a wretched dirty room, in which
there was but one chair,' the Rev.

Thomas Percy, afterwards Bishop of Dromore, found him composing (or more
probably correcting the proofs of) 'The Enquiry'. 'At least spare
invective 'till my book with Mr. Dodsley shall be publish'd,'--he
had written not long before to the irate Griffiths--'and then perhaps
you may see the bright side of a mind when my professions shall
not appear the dictates of necessity but of choice.' 'The Enquiry'
came out on the 2nd of April. It had no author's name, but it was
an open secret that Goldsmith had written it; and to this day it remains
to the critic one of the most interesting of his works.
Obviously, in a duodecimo of some two hundred widely-printed pages,
it was impossible to keep the high-sounding promise of its title;
and at best its author's knowledge of the subject, notwithstanding
his continental wanderings, can have been but that of an external
spectator.

Still in an age when critical utterance was more than ordinarily
full-wigged and ponderous, it dared to be sprightly and epigrammatic.
Some of its passages, besides, bear upon the writer's personal
experiences, and serve to piece the imperfections of his biography.
If it brought him no sudden wealth, it certainly raised his reputation
with the book-selling world. A connexion already begun with
Smollett's 'Critical Review' was drawn closer; and the shrewd
Sosii of the Row began to see the importance of securing so
vivacious and unconventional a pen. Towards the end of the year he
was writing for Wilkie the collection of periodical essays
entitled 'The Bee'; and contributing to the same publisher's
'Lady's Magazine', as well as to 'The Busy Body' of one Pottinger.
In these, more than ever, he was finding his distinctive touch;
and ratifying anew, with every fresh stroke of his pen, his bondage
to authorship as a calling.

He had still, however, to conquer the public. 'The Bee', although
it contains one of his most characteristic essays ('A City
Night-Piece'), and some of the most popular of his lighter verses
('The Elegy on Mrs.
Mary Blaize'), never attained the circulation essential to healthy
existence. It closed with its eighth number in November, 1759.
In the following month two gentlemen called at Green Arbour Court
to enlist the services of its author.

One was Smollett, with a new serial, 'The British Magazine'; the
other was Johnson's 'Jack Whirler,' bustling Mr.
John Newbery from the 'Bible and Sun' in St. Paul's Churchyard,
with a new daily newspaper, 'The Public Ledger'. For Smollett,
Goldsmith wrote the 'Reverie at the Boar's Head Tavern' and the
'Adventures of a Strolling Player,' besides a number of minor
papers.

For Newbery, by a happy recollection of the 'Lettres Persanes' of
Montesquieu, or some of his imitators, he struck almost at once
into that charming epistolary series, brimful of fine observation,
kindly satire, and various fancy, which was ultimately to become
the English classic known as 'The Citizen of the World'. He
continued to produce these letters periodically until the August
of the following year, when they were announced for republication
in 'two volumes of the usual 'Spectator' size.' In this form they
appeared in May, 1762.

But long before this date a change for the better had taken place
in Goldsmith's life.

Henceforth he was sure of work,--mere journey-work though much
of it must have been;--and, had his nature been less improvident,
of freedom from absolute want.

The humble lodgings in the Old Bailey were discarded for new
premises at No. 6 Wine Office Court, Fleet Street; and here, on the
31st of May, 1761, with Percy, came one whose name was often in the
future to be associated with Goldsmith's, the great Dictator of London
literary society, Samuel Johnson. Boswell, who made Johnson's
acquaintance later, has not recorded the humours of that supper;
but it marks the beginning of Goldsmith's friendship with the
man who of all others (Reynolds excepted) loved him most and
understood him best.

During the remainder of 1761 he continued busily to ply his pen.
Besides his contributions to 'The Ledger' and 'The British
Magazine', he edited 'The Lady's Magazine', inserting in it the
'Memoirs of Voltaire', drawn up some time earlier to accompany
a translation of the 'Henriade' by his crony and compatriot Edward
Purdon. Towards the beginning of 1762 he was hard at work on
several compilations for Newbery, for whom he wrote or edited a
'History of Mecklenburgh', and a series of monthly volumes of an
abridgement of 'Plutarch's Lives'. In October of the same year was
published the 'Life of Richard Nash', apparently the outcome
of special holiday-visits to the then fashionable watering-place
of Bath, whence its fantastic old Master of the Ceremonies had only
very lately made his final exit. It is a pleasantly gossiping, and
not unedifying little book, which still holds a respectable place
among its author's minor works. But a recently discovered entry
in an old ledger shows that during the latter half of 1762 he
must have planned, if he had not, indeed, already in part composed,
a far more important effort, 'The Vicar of Wakefield'. For on the
28th of October in this year he sold to one Benjamin Collins,
printer, of Salisbury, for 21 pounds, a third in a work with that
title, further described as '2 vols. 12mo.' How this little circumstance,
discovered by Mr. Charles Welsh when preparing his Life of John
Newbery, is to be brought into agreement with the time-honoured
story, related (with variations) by Boswell and others, to the
effect that Johnson negotiated the sale of the manuscript for
Goldsmith when the latter was arrested for rent by his incensed
landlady--has not yet been satisfactorily suggested.

Possibly the solution is a simple one, referable to some of those
intricate arrangements favoured by 'the Trade' at a time when not
one but half a score publishers' names figured in an imprint. At
present, the fact that Collins bought a third share of the book
from the author for twenty guineas, and the statement that Johnson
transferred the entire manuscript to a bookseller for sixty
pounds, seem irreconcilable. That 'The Vicar of Wakefield' was
nevertheless written, or was being written, in 1762, is demonstrable
from internal evidence.

About Christmas in the same year Goldsmith moved into lodgings at
Islington, his landlady being one Mrs. Elizabeth Fleming, a friend
of Newbery, to whose generalship this step seems attributable. From
the curious accounts printed by Prior and Forster, it is clear that
the publisher was Mrs. Fleming's paymaster, punctually deducting
his disbursements from the account current between himself and
Goldsmith, an arrangement which as plainly indicates the foresight
of the one as it implies the improvidence of the other. Of the
work which Goldsmith did for the businesslike and not unkindly
little man, there is no very definite evidence; but various prefaces,
introductions, and the like, belong to this time; and he undoubtedly
was the author of the excellent 'History of England in a Series of
Letters addressed by a Nobleman to his Son', published anonymously
in June, 1764, and long attributed, for the grace of its style,
to Lyttelton, Chesterfield, Orrery, and other patrician pens.
Meanwhile his range of acquaintance was growing larger.
The establishment, at the beginning of 1764, of the famous association
known afterwards as the 'Literary Club' brought him into intimate
relations with Beauclerk, Reynolds, Langton, Burke, and others.

Hogarth, too, is said to have visited him at Islington, and to
have painted the portrait of Mrs. Fleming. Later in the same year,
incited thereto by the success of Christopher Smart's 'Hannah', he
wrote the Oratorio of 'The Captivity', now to be found in most
editions of his poems, but never set to music. Then after the slow
growth of months, was issued on the 19th December the elaboration
of that fragmentary sketch which he had sent years before to his
brother Henry from the Continent, the poem entitled 'The Traveller;
or, A Prospect of Society'.

In the notes appended to 'The Traveller' in the present volume,
its origin and progress are sufficiently explained. Its success
was immediate and enduring. The beauty of the descriptive passages,
the subtle simplicity of the language, the sweetness and finish of
the versification, found ready admirers,--perhaps all the more
because of the contrast they afforded to the rough and strenuous
sounds with which Charles Churchill had lately filled the public
ear. Johnson, who contributed a few lines at the close, proclaimed
'The Traveller' to be the best poem since the death of Pope; and
it is certainly not easy to find its equal among the works of
contemporary bards.

It at once raised Goldsmith from the condition of a clever newspaper
essayist, or--as men like Sir John Hawkins would have said--a mere
'bookseller's drudge,' to the foremost rank among the poets of the
day. Another result of its success was the revival of some of
his earlier work, which, however neglected by the author, had been
freely appropriated by the discerning pirate. In June, 1765, Griffin
and Newbery published a little volume of 'Essays by Mr. Goldsmith',
including some of the best of his contributions to 'The Bee', 'The
Busy Body', 'The Public Ledger', and 'The British Magazine', besides
'The Double Transformation' and 'The Logicians Refuted,' two pieces
of verse in imitation of Prior and Swift, which have not been
traced to an earlier source. To the same year belongs the first
version of a poem which he himself regarded as his best work, and
which still retains something of its former popularity.
This was the ballad of 'Edwin and Angelina', otherwise known as 'The
Hermit'. It originated in certain metrical discussions with Percy,
then engaged upon his famous 'Reliques of English Poetry'; and in
1765, Goldsmith, who through his friend Nugent (afterwards Lord
Clare) had made the acquaintance of the Earl of Northumberland,
printed it privately for the amusement of the Countess. In a revised
and amended form it was subsequently given to the world in 'The
Vicar of Wakefield'.

With the exception of an abortive attempt to resume his practice
as a medical man,--an attempt which seems to have been frustrated by
the preternatural strength of his prescriptions,--the next memorable
thing in Goldsmith's life is the publication of 'The Vicar of
Wakefield' itself. It made its appearance on the 27th of
March, 1766. A second edition followed in May, a third in August.
Why, having been sold (in part) to a Salisbury printer as far back
as October, 1762, it had remained unprinted so long; and why,
when published, it was published by Francis Newbery and not
by John Newbery, Goldsmith's employer,--are questions at present
unsolved. But the charm of this famous novel is as fresh as when
it was first issued. Its inimitable types, its happy mingling
of Christianity and character, its wholesome benevolence and its
practical wisdom, are still unimpaired. We smile at the
inconsistencies of the plot; but we are carried onward in spite
of them, captivated by the grace, the kindliness, the gentle humour
of the story.
Yet it is a mistake to suppose that its success was instantaneous.

Pirated it was, of course; but, according to expert investigations,
the authorized edition brought so little gain to its first proprietors
that the fourth issue of 1770 started with a loss. The fifth,
published in April, 1774, was dated 1773; and had apparently
been withheld because the previous edition, which consisted of
no more than one thousand copies, was not exhausted. Five years
elapsed before the sixth edition made its tardy appearance in
1779. These facts show that the writer's contemporaries were not his
most eager readers. But he has long since appealed to the wider
audience of posterity; and his fame is not confined to his native
country, for he has been translated into most European languages.
Dr. Primrose and his family are now veritable 'citizens of the
world.'
A selection of 'Poems for Young Ladies', in the 'Moral' division of
which he included his own 'Edwin and Angelina'; two volumes of
'Beauties of English Poesy', disfigured with strange heedlessness, by
a couple of the most objectionable pieces of Prior; a translation
of a French history of philosophy, and other occasional work,
followed the publication of the 'Vicar'. But towards the middle of
1766, he was meditating a new experiment in that line in which
Farquhar, Steele, Southerne, and others of his countrymen had
succeeded before him.

A fervent lover of the stage, he detested the vapid and colourless
'genteel' comedy which had gradually gained ground in England; and
he determined to follow up 'The Clandestine Marriage', then
recently adapted by Colman and Garrick from Hogarth's 'Marriage
A-la-Mode', with another effort of the same class, depending exclusively
for its interest upon humour and character. Early in 1767 it was
completed, and submitted to Garrick for Drury Lane. But Garrick
perhaps too politic to traverse the popular taste, temporized; and
eventually after many delays and disappointments, 'The Good Natur'd
Man', as it was called, was produced at Covent Garden by Colman
on the 29th of January, 1768. Its success was only partial; and
in deference to the prevailing craze for the 'genteel,' an admirable
scene of low humour had to be omitted in the representation.

But the piece, notwithstanding, brought the author 400 pounds, to
which the sale of the book, with the condemned passages restored,
added another 100 pounds. Furthermore, Johnson, whose 'Suspirius'
in 'The Rambler' was, under the name of 'Croaker,' one of its
most prominent personages, pronounced it to be the best comedy
since Cibber's 'Provok'd Husband'.

He then ordered Dunois to see that the boar's carcass was sent to
the brotherhood of Saint Martin, at Tours, to mend their fare on
holydays, and that they might remember the King in their private
devotions.

"And," said Louis, "who hath seen his Eminence my Lord Cardinal?
Methinks it were but poor courtesy, and cold regard to Holy Church
to leave him afoot here in the forest."

"May it please you," said Quentin, when he saw that all were silent,
"I saw his Lordship the Cardinal accommodated with a horse, on
which he left the forest."

"Heaven cares for its own," replied the King. "Set forward to the
Castle, my lords; we'll hunt no more this morning. -- You, Sir
Squire," addressing Quentin, "reach me my wood knife -- it has
dropt from the sheath beside the quarry there. Ride on, Dunois --
I follow instantly."

Louis, whose lightest motions were often conducted like stratagems,
thus gained an opportunity to ask Quentin privately, "My bonny
Scot, thou hast an eye, I see. Canst thou tell me who helped the
Cardinal to a palfrey? -- Some stranger, I should suppose; for,
as I passed without stopping, the courtiers would likely be in no
hurry to do him such a timely good turn."

"I saw those who aided his Eminence but an instant, Sire," said
Quentin; "it was only a hasty glance, for I had been unluckily
thrown out, and was riding fast to be in my place; but I think it
was the Ambassador of Burgundy and his people."

"Ha," said Louis. "Well, be it so. France will match them yet."

There was nothing more remarkable happened, and the King, with his
retinue, returned to the Castle.


CHAPTER X: THE SENTINEL

Where should this music be?  i' the air or the earth?

THE TEMPEST

I was all ear,
And took in strains that might create a soul
Under the ribs of death.

COMUS


Quentin had hardly reached his little cabin, in order to make some
necessary changes in his dress, when his worthy relation required
to know the full particulars of all that had befallen him at the
hunt.

The youth, who could not help thinking that his uncle's hand was
probably more powerful than his understanding, took care, in his
reply, to leave the King in full possession of the victory which he
had seemed desirous to appropriate. Le Balafre's reply was a boast
of how much better he himself would have behaved in the like
circumstances, and it was mixed with a gentle censure of his nephew's
slackness in not making in to the King's assistance, when he might
be in imminent peril. The youth had prudence, in answer, to abstain
from all farther indication of his own conduct, except that, according
to the rules of woodcraft, he held it ungentle to interfere with
the game attacked by another hunter, unless he was specially called
upon for his assistance. The discussion was scarcely ended, when
occasion was afforded Quentin to congratulate himself for observing
some reserve towards his kinsman. A low tap at the door announced
a visitor -- it was presently opened, and Oliver Dain, or Mauvais,
or Diable, for by all these names he was known, entered the apartment.

This able but most unprincipled man has been already described in
so far as his exterior is concerned. The aptest resemblance of his
motions and manners might perhaps be to those of a domestic cat,
which, while couching in seeming slumber, or gliding through the
apartment with slow, stealthy, and timid steps, is now engaged
in watching the hole of some unfortunate mouse, now in rubbing
herself with apparent confidence and fondness against those by whom
she desires to be caressed, and, presently after, is flying upon
her prey, or scratching, perhaps, the very object of her former
cajolements.

He entered with stooping shoulders, a humble and modest look, and
threw such a degree of civility into his address to the Seignior
Balafre, that no one who saw the interview could have avoided
concluding that he came to ask a boon of the Scottish Archer. He
congratulated Lesly on the excellent conduct of his young kinsman
in the chase that day, which, he observed, had attracted the King's
particular attention. He here paused for a reply; and, with his
eyes fixed on the ground, save just when once or twice they stole
upwards to take a side glance at Quentin, he heard Balafre observe
that his Majesty had been unlucky in not having himself by his side
instead of his nephew, as he would questionless have made in, and
speared the brute, a matter which he understood Quentin had left
upon his Majesty's royal hands, so far as he could learn the story.

"But it will be a lesson to his Majesty," he said, "while he lives, to
mount a man of my inches on a better horse; for how could my great
hill of a Flemish dray horse keep up with his Majesty's Norman
runner? I am sure I spurred till his sides were furrowed. It is ill
considered, Master Oliver, and you must represent it to his Majesty."

Master Oliver only replied to this observation by turning towards
the bold, bluff speaker one of those slow, dubious glances which,
accompanied by a slight motion of the hand, and a gentle depression
of the head to one side, may be either interpreted as a mute assent
to what is said, or as a cautious deprecation of farther prosecution
of the subject. It was a keener, more scrutinizing glance, which
he bent on the youth, as he said, with an ambiguous smile, "So,
young man, is it the wont of Scotland to suffer your Princes to
be endangered for the lack of aid in such emergencies as this of
today?"

"It is our custom," answered Quentin, determined to throw no farther
light on the subject, "not to encumber them with assistance in
honourable pastimes, when they can aid themselves without it. We
hold that a Prince in a hunting field must take his chance with
others, and that he comes there for the very purpose. What were
woodcraft without fatigue and without danger?"

"You hear the silly boy," said his uncle; "that is always the way
with him; he hath an answer or a reason ready to be rendered to
every one. I wonder whence he hath caught the gift; I never could
give a reason for anything I have ever done in my life, except
for eating when I was a-hungry, calling the muster roll, and such
points of duty as the like."

"And pray, worthy Seignior," said the royal tonsor, looking at him
from under his eyelids, "what might your reason be for calling the
muster roll on such occasions?"

"Because the Captain commanded me," said Le Balafre. "By Saint
Giles [patron saint of lepers, beggars, and cripples. He has been
especially venerated in England and Scotland], I know no other
reason! If he had commanded Tyrie or Cunningham, they must have
done the same."

"A most military final cause!" said Oliver. "But, Seignior Le
Balafre, you will be glad, doubtless, to learn that his Majesty is
so far from being displeased with your nephew's conduct, that he
hath selected him to execute a piece of duty this afternoon."

"Selected him?" said Balafre in great surprise -- "selected me, I
suppose you mean?"

"I mean precisely as I speak," replied the barber, in a mild but
decided tone; "the King hath a commission with which to intrust
your nephew."

"Why, wherefore, and for what reason?" said Balafre. "Why doth he
choose the boy, and not me?"

"I can go no farther back than your own ultimate cause, Seignior
Le Balafre, such are his Majesty's commands. But," said he, "if
I might use the presumption to form a conjecture, it may be his
Majesty hath work to do, fitter for a youth like your nephew, than
for an experienced warrior like yourself, Seignior Balafre. --
Wherefore, young gentleman, get your weapons and follow me. Bring
with you a harquebuss, for you are to mount sentinel."

"Sentinel!" said the uncle. "Are you sure you are right, Master
Oliver? The inner guards of the Castle have ever been mounted by
those only who have (like me) served twelve years in our honourable
body."

"I am quite certain of his Majesty's pleasure," said Oliver, "and
must no longer delay executing it."

"But," said Le Balafre, "my nephew is not even a free Archer, being
only an Esquire, serving under my lance."

"Pardon me," answered Oliver; "the King sent for the register not
half an hour since, and enrolled him among the Guard. Have the
goodness to assist to put your nephew in order for the service."

Balafre, who had no ill nature, or even much jealousy in his
disposition, hastily set about adjusting his nephew's dress, and
giving him directions for his conduct under arms, but was unable
to refrain from larding them with interjections of surprise at such
luck's chancing to fall upon the young man so early.

It had never taken place before in the Scottish Guard, he said,
not even in his own instance. But doubtless his service must be
to mount guard over the popinjays and Indian peacocks, which the
Venetian ambassador had lately presented to the King -- it could
be nothing else; and such duty being only fit for a beardless boy
(here he twirled his own grim mustaches), he was glad the lot had
fallen on his fair nephew.

Quick and sharp of wit, as well as ardent in fancy, Quentin saw
visions of higher importance in this early summons to the royal
presence, and his heart beat high at the anticipation of rising into
speedy distinction. He determined carefully to watch the manners
and language of his conductor, which he suspected must, in some
cases at least, be interpreted by contraries, as soothsayers are
said to discover the interpretation of dreams. He could not but
hug himself on having observed strict secrecy on the events of the
chase, and then formed a resolution, which, for so young a person,
had much prudence in it, that while he breathed the air of this
secluded and mysterious Court, he would keep his thoughts locked
in his bosom, and his tongue under the most careful regulation.

His equipment was soon complete, and, with his harquebuss on his
shoulder (for though they retained the name of Archers, the Scottish
Guard very early substituted firearms for the long bow, in the use
of which their nation never excelled), he followed Master Oliver
out of the barrack.

His uncle looked long after him, with a countenance in which wonder
was blended with curiosity; and though neither envy nor the malignant
feelings which it engenders entered into his honest meditations,
there was yet a sense of wounded or diminished self importance,
which mingled with the pleasure excited by his nephew's favourable
commencement of service.

He shook his head gravely, opened a privy cupboard, took out a
large bottrine of stout old wine, shook it to examine how low the
contents had ebbed, filled and drank a hearty cup; then took his
seat, half reclining, on the great oaken settle; and having once
again slowly shaken his head, received so much apparent benefit
from the oscillation, that, like the toy called a mandarin, he
continued the motion until he dropped into a slumber, from which
he was first roused by the signal to dinner.

When Quentin Durward left his uncle to these sublime meditations,
he followed his conductor, Master Oliver, who, without crossing any
of the principal courts, led him, partly through private passages
exposed to the open air, but chiefly through a maze of stairs,
vaults, and galleries, communicating with each other by secret
doors and at unexpected points, into a large and spacious latticed
gallery, which, from its breadth, might have been almost termed a
hall, hung with tapestry more ancient than beautiful, and with a
very few of the hard, cold, ghastly looking pictures, belonging to
the first dawn of the arts which preceded their splendid sunrise.
These were designed to represent the Paladins of Charlemagne, who
made such a distinguished figure in the romantic history of France;
and as this gigantic form of the celebrated Orlando constituted the
most prominent figure, the apartment acquired from him the title
of Rolando's Hall, or Roland's Gallery.

[Charlemagne . . . was accounted a saint during the dark ages:
and Louis XI, as one of his successors, honoured his shrine with
peculiar observance. S.]

[Orlando: also called Roland. His history may be read in the Chanson
de Roland.]

"You will keep watch here," said Oliver, in a low whisper, as if
the hard delineations of monarchs and warriors around could have
been offended at the elevation of his voice, or as if he had feared
to awaken the echoes that lurked among the groined vaults and Gothic
drop work on the ceiling of this huge and dreary apartment.

"What are the orders and signs of my watch?" answered Quentin, in
the same suppressed tone.

"Is your harquebuss loaded?" replied Oliver, without answering his
query.

"That," answered Quentin, "is soon done;" and proceeded to charge
his weapon, and to light the slow match (by which when necessary
it was discharged) at the embers of a wood fire, which was expiring
in the huge hall chimney -- a chimney itself so large that it
might have been called a Gothic closet or chapel appertaining to
the hall.

When this was performed, Oliver told him that he was ignorant of
one of the high privileges of his own corps, which only received
orders from the King in person, or the High Constable of France, in
lieu of their own officers. "You are placed here by his Majesty's
command, young man," added Oliver, "and you will not be long here
without knowing wherefore you are summoned. Meantime your walk
extends along this gallery. You are permitted to stand still while
you list, but on no account to sit down, or quit your weapon. You
are not to sing aloud, or whistle, upon any account; but you may,
if you list, mutter some of the church's prayers, or what else you
list that has no offence in it, in a low voice. Farewell, and keep
good watch."

"Good watch!" thought the youthful soldier as his guide stole away
from him with that noiseless gliding step which was peculiar to
him, and vanished through a side door behind the arras.

"Good watch! but upon whom and against whom? -- for what, save
bats or rats, are there here to contend with, unless these grim
old representatives of humanity should start into life for the
disturbance of my guard? Well, it is my duty, I suppose, and I must
perform it."

With the vigorous purpose of discharging his duty, even to the
very rigour, he tried to while away the time with some of the pious
hymns which he had learned in the convent in which he had found
shelter after the death of his father -- allowing in his own mind,
that, but for the change of a novice's frock for the rich military
dress which he now wore, his soldierly walk in the royal gallery
of France resembled greatly those of which he had tired excessively
in the cloistered seclusion of Aberbrothick.

Presently, as if to convince himself he now belonged not to the
cell but to the world, he chanted to himself, but in such tone as
not to exceed the license given to him, some of the ancient rude
ballads which the old family harper had taught him, of the defeat
of the Danes at Aberlemno and Forres, the murder of King Duffus at
Forfar, and other pithy sonnets and lays which appertained to the
history of his distant native country, and particularly of the
district to which he belonged. This wore away a considerable space
of time, and it was now more than two hours past noon when Quentin
was reminded by his appetite that the good fathers of Aberbrothick,
however strict in demanding his attendance upon the hours of devotion,
were no less punctual in summoning him to those of refection; whereas
here, in the interior of a royal palace, after a morning spent in
exercise, and a noon exhausted in duty, no man seemed to consider it
as a natural consequence that he must be impatient for his dinner.

There are, however, charms in sweet sounds which can lull to rest
even the natural feelings of impatience by which Quentin was now
visited. At the opposite extremities of the long hall or gallery
were two large doors, ornamented with heavy architraves, probably
opening into different suites of apartments, to which the gallery
served as a medium of mutual communication. As the sentinel directed
his solitary walk betwixt these two entrances, which formed the
boundary of his duty, he was startled by a strain of music which
was suddenly waked near one of those doors, and which, at least in
his imagination, was a combination of the same lute and voice by
which he had been enchanted on the preceding day. All the dreams of
yesterday morning, so much weakened by the agitating circumstances which
he had since undergone, again arose more vivid from their slumber,
and, planted on the spot where his ear could most conveniently, drink
in the sounds, Quentin remained, with his harquebuss shouldered,
his mouth half open, ear, eye, and soul directed to the spot, rather
the picture of a sentinel than a living form, -- without any other
idea than that of catching, if possible, each passing sound of the
dulcet melody.

These delightful sounds were but partially heard -- they languished,
lingered, ceased entirely, and were from time to time renewed after
uncertain intervals. But, besides that music, like beauty, is often
most delightful, or at least most interesting, to the imagination
when its charms are but partially displayed and the imagination
is left to fill up what is from distance but imperfectly detailed,
Quentin had matter enough to fill up his reverie during the intervals
of fascination. He could not doubt, from the report of his uncle's
comrades and the scene which had passed in the presence chamber
that morning, that the siren who thus delighted his ears, was not,
as he had profanely supposed, the daughter or kinswoman of a base
Cabaretier [inn keeper], but the same disguised and distressed
Countess for whose cause kings and princes were now about to buckle
on armour, and put lance in rest. A hundred wild dreams, such as
romantic and adventurous youth readily nourished in a romantic and
adventurous age, chased from his eyes the bodily presentiment of
the actual scene, and substituted their own bewildering delusions,
when at once, and rudely, they were banished by a rough grasp laid
upon his weapon, and a harsh voice which exclaimed, close to his
ear, "Ha! Pasques dieu, Sir Squire, methinks you keep sleepy ward."

The voice was the tuneless, yet impressive and ironical tone
of Maitre Pierre, and Quentin, suddenly recalled to himself, saw,
with shame and fear, that he had, in his reverie, permitted Louis
himself -- entering probably by some secret door, and gliding along
by the wall, or behind the tapestry -- to approach him so nearly
as almost to master his weapon.

The first impulse of his surprise was to free his harquebuss by
a violent exertion, which made the King stagger backward into the
hall. His next apprehension was that, in obeying the animal instinct,
as it may be termed, which prompts a brave man to resist an attempt
to disarm him, he had aggravated, by a personal struggle with the
King, the displeasure produced by the negligence with which he
had performed his duty upon guard; and, under this impression, he
recovered his harquebuss without almost knowing what he did, and,
having again shouldered it, stood motionless before the Monarch,
whom he had reason to conclude he had mortally offended.

Louis, whose tyrannical disposition was less founded on natural
ferocity or cruelty of temper, than on cold blooded policy
and jealous suspicion, had, nevertheless, a share of that caustic
severity which would have made him a despot in private conversation,
and he always seemed to enjoy the pain which he inflicted on
occasions like the present. But he did not push his triumph far,
and contented himself with saying, "Thy service of the morning hath
already overpaid some negligence in so young a soldier. -- Hast
thou dined?"

Quentin, who rather looked to be sent to the Provost Marshal than
greeted with such a compliment, answered humbly in the negative.

"Poor lad," said Louis, in a softer tone than he usually spoke in,
"hunger hath made him drowsy. -- I know thine appetite is a wolf,"
he continued; "and I will save thee from one wild beast as thou
didst me from another; thou hast been prudent too in that matter,
and I thank thee for it. -- Canst thou yet hold out an hour without
food?"

"Four-and-twenty, Sire," replied Durward, "or I were no true Scot."

"I would not for another kingdom be the pasty which should encounter
thee after such a vigil," said the King; "but the question now is,
not of thy dinner, but of my own. I admit to my table this day, and
in strict privacy, the Cardinal Balue and this Burgundian -- this
Count de Crevecoeur -- and something may chance; the devil is most
busy when foes meet on terms of truce."

He stopped, and remained silent, with a deep and gloomy look. As
the King was in no haste to proceed, Quentin at length ventured to
ask what his duty was to be in these circumstances.

"To keep watch at the beauffet, with thy loaded weapon," said Louis;
"and if there is treason, to shoot the traitor."

"Treason, Sire! and in this guarded castle!" exclaimed Durward.

"You think it impossible," said the King, not offended, it would
seem, by his frankness; "but our history has shown that treason can
creep into an auger hole. -- Treason excluded by guards! Oh, thou
silly boy! -- quis custodiat ipsos custodes -- who shall exclude
the treason of those very warders?"

"Their Scottish honour," answered Durward, boldly.

"True: most right: -- thou pleasest me," said the King, cheerfully;
"the Scottish honour was ever true, and I trust it accordingly.
But treason!" -- here he relapsed into his former gloomy mood, and
traversed the apartment with unequal steps -- "she sits at our feasts,
she sparkles in our bowls, she wears the beard of our counsellors,
the smiles of our courtiers, the crazy laugh of our jesters -- above
all, she lies hid under the friendly air of a reconciled enemy.
Louis of Orleans trusted John of Burgundy -- he was murdered in
the Rue Barbette. John of Burgundy trusted the faction of Orleans
-- he was murdered on the bridge of Montereau. -- I will trust no
one -- no one. Hark ye; I will keep my eye on that insolent Count;
ay, and on the churchman too, whom I hold not too faithful. When
I say, Ecosse, en avant [Forward, Scotland], shoot Crevecoeur dead
on the spot."

"It is my duty," said Quentin, "your Majesty's life being endangered."

"Certainly -- I mean it no otherwise," said the King. "What should
I get by slaying this insolent soldier? -- Were it the Constable
Saint Paul indeed" -- here he paused, as if he thought he had said
a word too much, but resumed, laughing, "our brother-in-law, James
of Scotland -- your own James, Quentin -- poniarded the Douglas
when on a hospitable visit, within his own royal castle of Skirling."

[Douglas: the allusion in the text is to the fate of James, Earl of
Douglas, who, upon the faith of a safe conduct, after several acts
of rebellion, visited James the Second in the Castle of Stirling.
The king stabbed Douglas, who received his mortal wound from Sir
Patrick Grey, one of the king's attendants.]

"Of Stirling," said Quentin, "and so please your Highness. -- It
was a deed of which came little good."

"Stirling call you the castle?" said the King, overlooking the
latter part of Quentin's speech. "Well, let it be Stirling -- the
name is nothing to the purpose. But I meditate no injury to these
men -- none. -- It would serve me nothing. They may not purpose
equally fair by me -- I rely on thy harquebuss."

"I shall be prompt at the signal," said Quentin; "but yet"

"You hesitate," said the King. "Speak out -- I give thee full leave.
From such as thou art, hints may be caught that are right valuable."

"I would only presume to say," replied Quentin, "that your Majesty
having occasion to distrust this Burgundian, I marvel that you
suffer him to approach so near your person, and that in privacy."

"Oh, content you, Sir Squire," said the King. "There are some
dangers which when they are braved, disappear, and which yet, when
there is an obvious and apparent dread of them displayed, become
certain and inevitable. When I walk boldly up to a surly mastiff,
and caress him, it is ten to one I soothe him to good temper; if I
show fear of him, he flies on me and rends me. I will be thus far
frank with thee. -- It concerns me nearly that this man returns
not to his headlong master in a resentful humour. I run my risk,
therefore. I have never shunned to expose my life for the weal of
my kingdom. Follow me."

Louis led his young Life Guardsman, for whom he seemed to have taken
a special favour, through the side door by which he had himself
entered, saying, as he showed it him, "He who would thrive at Court
must know the private wickets and concealed staircases -- ay, and
the traps and pitfalls of the palace, as well as the principal
entrances, folding doors, and portals."

After several turns and passages, the King entered a small vaulted
room, where a table was prepared for dinner with three covers. The
whole furniture and arrangements of the room were plain almost to
meanness. A beauffet, or folding and movable cupboard, held a few
pieces of gold and silver plate, and was the only article in the
chamber which had in the slightest degree the appearance of royalty.
Behind this cupboard, and completely hidden by it, was the post which
Louis assigned to Quentin Durward; and after having ascertained,
by going to different parts of the room, that he was invisible
from all quarters, he gave him his last charge: "Remember the word,
Posse, en avant; and so soon as ever I utter these sounds, throw
down the screen -- spare not for cup or goblet, and be sure thou
take good aim at Crevecoeur -- if thy piece fail, cling to him,
and use thy knife -- Oliver and I can deal with the Cardinal."

Having thus spoken, he whistled aloud, and summoned into the
apartment Oliver, who was premier valet of the chamber as well as
barber, and who, in fact, performed all offices immediately connected
with the King's person, and who now appeared, attended by two old
men, who were the only assistants or waiters at the royal table. So
soon as the King had taken his place, the visitors were admitted;
and Quentin, though himself unseen, was so situated as to remark
all the particulars of the interview.

The King welcomed his visitors with a degree of cordiality which
Quentin had the utmost difficulty to reconcile with the directions
which he had previously received, and the purpose for which he stood
behind the beauffet with his deadly weapon in readiness. Not only
did Louis appear totally free from apprehension of any kind, but
one would have supposed that those visitors whom he had done the
high honour to admit to his table were the very persons in whom he
could most unreservedly confide, and whom he was, most willing to
honour. Nothing could be more dignified, and, at the same time,
more courteous than his demeanour. While all around him, including
even his own dress, was far beneath the splendour which the petty
princes of the kingdom displayed in their festivities, his own
language and manners were those of a mighty Sovereign in his most
condescending mood. Quentin was tempted to suppose, either that the
whole of his previous conversation with Louis had been a dream, or
that the dutiful demeanour of the Cardinal, and the frank, open,
and gallant bearing of the Burgundian noble had entirely erased
the King's suspicion.

But whilst the guests, in obedience to the King, were in the act
of placing themselves at the table, his Majesty darted one keen
glance on them, and then instantly directed his look to Quentin's
post. This was done in an instant; but the glance conveyed so much
doubt and hatred towards his guests, such a peremptory injunction
on Quentin to be watchful in attendance, and prompt in execution,
that no room was left for doubting that the sentiments of Louis
continued unaltered, and his apprehensions unabated. He was,
therefore, more than ever astonished at the deep veil under which
that Monarch was able to conceal the movements of his jealous
disposition.

Appearing to have entirely forgotten the language which Crevecoeur
had held towards him in the face of his Court, the King conversed
with him of old times, of events which had occurred during his own
exile in the territories of Burgundy, and inquired respecting all
the nobles with whom he had been then familiar, as if that period
had indeed been the happiest of his life, and as if he retained
towards all who had contributed to soften the term of his exile,
the kindest and most grateful sentiments.

"To an ambassador of another nation," he said, "I would have
thrown something of state into our reception; but to an old friend,
who often shared my board at the Castle of Genappes [during his
residence in Burgundy, in his father's lifetime, Genappes was the
usual abode of Louis. . . . S.], I wished to show myself, as I love
best to live, old Louis of Valois, as simple and plain as any of
his Parisian badauds [idlers]. But I directed them to make some
better cheer than ordinary for you, Sir Count, for I know your
Burgundian proverb, 'Mieux vault bon repas que bel habit' [a good
meal is better than a beautiful coat. (Present spelling is vaut.)];
and therefore I bid them have some care of our table. For our wine,
you know well it is the subject of an old emulation betwixt France
and Burgundy, which we will presently reconcile; for I will drink
to you in Burgundy, and you, Sir Count, shall pledge me in Champagne.
-- Here, Oliver, let me have a cup of Vin d'Auxerre;" and he hummed
gaily a song then well known,


"Auxerre est le boisson des Rois."

[Auxerre wine is the beverage of kings]


"Here, Sir Count, I drink to the health of the noble Duke of Burgundy,
our kind and loving cousin. -- Oliver, replenish yon golden cup
with Vin de Rheims, and give it to the Count on your knee -- he
represents our loving brother. -- My Lord Cardinal, we will ourself
fill your cup."

"You have already, Sire, even to overflowing," said the Cardinal,
with the lowly mien of a favourite towards an indulgent master.

"Because we know that your Eminence can carry it with a steady
hand," said Louis. "But which side do you espouse in the great
controversy, Sillery or Auxerre -- France or Burgundy?"

"I will stand neutral, Sire," said the Cardinal, "and replenish my
cup with Auvernat."

"A neutral has a perilous part to sustain," said the King; but as he
observed the Cardinal colour somewhat, he glided from the subject
and added, "But you prefer the Auvernat, because it is so noble
a wine it endures not water. -- You, Sir Count, hesitate to empty
your cup. I trust you have found no national bitterness at the
bottom."

"I would, Sire," said the Count de Crevecoeur, "that all national
quarrels could be as pleasantly ended as the rivalry betwixt our
vineyards."

"With time, Sir Count," answered the King, "with time -- such time
as you have taken to your draught of Champagne. -- And now that it
is finished, favour me by putting the goblet in your bosom, and
keeping it as a pledge of our regard. It is not to every one that we
would part with it. It belonged of yore to that terror of France,
Henry V of England, and was taken when Rouen was reduced, and those
islanders expelled from Normandy by the joint arms of France and
Burgundy. It cannot be better bestowed than on a noble and valiant
Burgundian, who well knows that on the union of these two nations
depends the continuance of the freedom of the continent from the
English yoke."

The Count made a suitable answer, and Louis gave unrestrained way
to the satirical gaiety of disposition which sometimes enlivened
the darker shades of his character. Leading, of course, the
conversation, his remarks, always shrewd and caustic, and often
actually witty, were seldom good natured, and the anecdotes with
which he illustrated them were often more humorous than delicate;
but in no one word, syllable, or letter did he betray the state of
mind of one who, apprehensive of assassination, hath in his apartment
an armed soldier with his piece loaded, in order to prevent or
anticipate an attack on his person.

The Count de Crevecoeur gave frankly in to the King's humour [the
nature of Louis XI's coarse humour may be guessed at by those who
have perused the Cent Nouvelles Nouvelles, which are grosser than
most similar collections of the age. S.]; while the smooth churchman
laughed at every jest and enhanced every ludicrous idea, without
exhibiting any shame at expressions which made the rustic young
Scot blush even in his place of concealment. In about an hour and
a half the tables were drawn; and the King, taking courteous leave
of his guests, gave the signal that it was his desire to be alone.

So soon as all, even Oliver, had retired, he called Quentin from
his place of concealment; but with a voice so faint, that the youth
could scarcely believe it to be the same which had so lately given
animation to the jest, and zest to the tale. As he approached, he saw
an equal change in his countenance. The light of assumed vivacity
had left the King's eyes, the smile had deserted his face, and
he exhibited all the fatigue of a celebrated actor, when he has
finished the exhausting representation of some favourite character,
in which, while upon the stage, he had displayed the utmost vivacity.

"Thy watch is not yet over," said he to Quentin; "refresh thyself
for an instant -- yonder table affords the means; I will then
instruct thee in thy farther duty. Meanwhile it is ill talking
between a full man and a fasting."

He threw himself back on his seat, covered his brow with his hand,
and was silent.


CHAPTER XI: THE HALL OF ROLAND

Painters show cupid blind -- Hath Hymen eyes?
Or is his sight warp'd by those spectacles
which parents, guardians, and advisers, lent him,
That he may look through them on lands and mansions,
On jewels, gold, and all such rich dotations,
And see their value ten times magnified? --
Methinks 't will brook a question.

THE MISERIES OF ENFORCED MARRIAGE


Louis XI of France, though the sovereign in Europe who was fondest
and most jealous of power, desired only its substantial enjoyment;
and though he knew well enough, and at times exacted strictly, the
observances due to his rank, he was in general singularly careless
of show.

In a prince of sounder moral qualities, the familiarity with
which he invited subjects to his board -- nay, occasionally sat at
theirs -- must have been highly popular; and even such as he was,
the King's homeliness of manners atoned for many of his vices with
that class of his subjects who were not particularly exposed to
the consequences of his suspicion and jealousy. The tiers etat, or
commons of France, who rose to more opulence and consequence under
the reign of this sagacious Prince, respected his person, though
they loved him not; and it was resting on their support that he was
enabled to make his party good against the hatred of the nobles,
who conceived that he diminished the honour of the French crown,
and obscured their own splendid privileges by that very neglect of
form which gratified the citizens and commons.

With patience which most other princes would have considered as
degrading, and not without a sense of amusement, the Monarch of
France waited till his Life Guardsman had satisfied the keenness
of a youthful appetite. It may be supposed, however, that Quentin
had too much sense and prudence to put the royal patience to a long
or tedious proof; and indeed he was repeatedly desirous to break
off his repast ere Louis would permit him.

"I see it in thine eye," he said good naturedly, "that thy courage
is not half abated. Go on -- God and Saint Denis! -- charge again.
I tell thee that meat and mass" (crossing himself) "never hindered
the work of a good Christian man. Take a cup of wine; but mind thou
be cautious of the wine pot -- it is the vice of thy countrymen as
well as of the English, who, lacking that folly, are the choicest
soldiers ever wore armour. And now wash speedily -- forget not thy
benedicite, and follow me."

Quentin obeyed, and, conducted by a different but as maze-like an
approach as he had formerly passed, he followed Louis into the Hall
of Roland.

"Take notice," said the King, imperatively, "thou hast never left
this post -- let that be thine answer to thy kinsman and comrades
-- and, hark thee, to bind the recollection on thy memory, I give
thee this gold chain" (flinging on his arm one of considerable
value). "If I go not brave myself, those whom I trust have ever
the means to ruffle it with the best. But when such chains as these
bind not the tongue from wagging too freely, my gossip, L'Hermite,
hath an amulet for the throat, which never fails to work a certain
cure. And now attend. -- No man, save Oliver or I myself, enters
here this evening; but ladies will come hither, perhaps from the
one extremity of the hall, perhaps from the other, perhaps one from
each. You may answer if they address you, but, being on duty, your
answer must be brief; and you must neither address them in your
turn, nor engage in any prolonged discourse. But hearken to what
they say. Thine ears as well as thy hands are mine -- I have bought
thee, body and soul. Therefore, if thou hearest aught of their
conversation, thou must retain it in memory until it is communicated
to me, and then forget it. And, now I think better on it, it will be
best that thou pass for a Scottish recruit, who hath come straight
down from his mountains, and hath not yet acquired our most Christian
language. -- Right. -- So, if they speak to thee, thou wilt not
answer -- this will free you from embarrassment, and lead them to
converse without regard to your presence. You understand me. --
Farewell. Be wary, and thou hast a friend."

The King had scarce spoken these words ere he disappeared behind the
arras, leaving Quentin to meditate on what he had seen and heard.
The youth was in one of those situations from which it is pleasanter
to look forward than to look back; for the reflection that he had
been planted like a marksman in a thicket who watches for a stag,
to take the life of the noble Count of Crevecoeur, had in it nothing
ennobling. It was very true that the King's measures seemed on this
occasion merely cautionary and defensive; but how did the youth know
but he might be soon commanded on some offensive operation of the
same kind? This would be an unpleasant crisis, since it was plain,
from the character of his master, that there would be destruction
in refusing, while his honour told him that there would be disgrace
in complying. He turned his thoughts from this subject of reflection
with the sage consolation so often adopted by youth when prospective
dangers intrude themselves on their mind, that it was time enough
to think what was to be done when the emergence actually arrived,
and that sufficient for the day was the evil thereof.

Quentin made use of this sedative reflection the more easily that the
last commands of the King had given him something more agreeable to
think of than his own condition. The Lady of the Lute was certainly
one of those to whom his attention was to be dedicated; and well
in his mind did he promise to obey one part of the King's mandate,
and listen with diligence to every word that might drop from her
lips that he might know if the magic of her conversation equalled
that of her music. But with as much sincerity did he swear to
himself, that no part of her discourse should be reported by him
to the King which might affect the fair speaker otherwise than
favourably.

Meantime, there was no fear of his again slumbering on his post.
Each passing breath of wind, which, finding its way through the
open lattice, waved the old arras, sounded like the approach of
the fair object of his expectation. He felt, in short, all that
mysterious anxiety and eagerness of expectation which is always
the companion of love, and sometimes hath a considerable share in
creating it.

At length, a door actually creaked and jingled (for the doors even
of palaces did not in the fifteenth century turn on their hinges so
noiseless as ours); but, alas! it was not at that end of the hall
from which the lute had been heard. It opened, however, and a female
figure entered, followed by two others, whom she directed by a sign
to remain without, while she herself came forward into the hall. By
her imperfect and unequal gait, which showed to peculiar disadvantage
as she traversed this long gallery, Quentin at once recognised the
Princess Joan, and with the respect which became his situation,
drew himself up in an attitude of silent vigilance, and lowered
his weapon to her as she passed. She acknowledged the courtesy by
a gracious inclination of her head, and he had an opportunity of
seeing her countenance more distinctly than he had in the morning.

There was little in the features of this ill fated Princess to atone
for the misfortune of her shape and gait. Her face was, indeed, by
no means disagreeable in itself, though destitute of beauty; and
there was a meek impression of suffering patience in her large blue
eyes, which were commonly fixed upon the ground. But besides that
she was extremely pallid in complexion, her skin had the yellowish
discoloured tinge which accompanies habitual bad health; and though
her teeth were white and regular, her lips were thin and pale.
The Princess had a profusion of flaxen hair, but it was so light
coloured as to be almost of a bluish tinge; and her tire woman,
who doubtless considered the luxuriance of her mistress's tresses
as a beauty, had not greatly improved matters by arranging them in
curls around her pale countenance, to which they added an expression
almost corpse-like and unearthly. To make matters still worse, she
had chosen a vest or cymar of a pale green silk, which gave her,
on the whole, a ghastly and even spectral appearance.

While Quentin followed this singular apparition with eyes in which
curiosity was blended with compassion, for every look and motion
of the Princess seemed to call for the latter feeling, two ladies
entered from the upper end of the apartment.

One of these was the young person who upon Louis's summons had
served him with fruit, while Quentin made his memorable breakfast
at the Fleur de Lys. Invested now with all the mysterious dignity
belonging to the nymph of the veil and lute, and proved, besides
(at least in Quentin's estimation), to be the high born heiress of
a rich earldom, her beauty made ten times the impression upon him
which it had done when he beheld in her one whom he deemed the daughter
of a paltry innkeeper, in attendance upon a rich and humorous old
burgher. He now wondered what fascination could ever have concealed
from him her real character. Yet her dress was nearly as simple
as before, being a suit of deep mourning, without any ornaments.
Her headdress was but a veil of crape, which was entirely thrown
back, so as to leave her face uncovered; and it was only Quentin's
knowledge of her actual rank, which gave in his estimation new
elegance to her beautiful shape, a dignity to her step which had
before remained unnoticed, and to her regular features, brilliant
complexion, and dazzling eyes, an air of conscious nobleness that
enhanced their beauty.

Had death been the penalty, Durward must needs have rendered to
this beauty and her companion the same homage which he had just
paid to the royalty of the Princess. They received it as those who
were accustomed to the deference of inferiors, and returned it with
courtesy; but he thought -- perhaps it was but a youthful vision
-- that the young lady coloured slightly, kept her eyes on the
ground, and seemed embarrassed though in a trifling degree, as she
returned his military salutation. This must have been owing to her
recollection of the audacious stranger in the neighbouring turret
at the Fleur de Lys; but did that discomposure express displeasure?
This question he had no means to determine.

The companion of the youthful Countess, dressed like herself simply
and in deep mourning, was at the age when women are apt to cling
most closely to that reputation for beauty which has for years been
diminishing. She had still remains enough to show what the power
of her charms must once have been, and, remembering past triumphs,
it was evident from her manner that she had not relinquished the
pretensions to future conquests. She was tall and graceful, though
somewhat haughty in her deportment, and returned the salute of
Quentin with a smile of gracious condescension, whispering the next
instant something into her companion's ear, who turned towards the
soldier as if to comply with some hint from the elder lady, but
answered, nevertheless, without raising her eyes. Quentin could
not help suspecting that the observation called on the young lady
to notice his own good mien; and he was (I do not know why) pleased
with the idea that the party referred to did not choose to look at
him, in order to verify with her own eyes the truth of the observation.
Probably he thought there was already a sort of mysterious connexion
beginning to exist between them, which gave importance to the
slightest trifle.

This reflection was momentary, for he was instantly wrapped up in
attention to the meeting of the Princess Joan with these stranger
ladies. She had stood still upon their entrance, in order to receive
them, conscious, perhaps, that motion did not become her well; and
as she was somewhat embarrassed in receiving and repaying their
compliments, the elder stranger, ignorant of the rank of the party
whom she addressed, was led to pay her salutation in a manner rather
as if she conferred than received an honour through the interview.

"I rejoice," she said, with a smile which was meant to express
condescension at once and encouragement, "that we are at length
permitted the society of such a respectable person of our own sex
as you appear to be. I must say that my niece and I have had but
little for which to thank the hospitality of King Louis. -- Nay,
niece, never pluck my sleeve -- I am sure I read in the looks of
this young lady sympathy for out situation. -- Since we came hither,
fair madam, we have been used little better than mere prisoners;
and after a thousand invitations to throw our cause and our persons
under the protection of France, the Most Christian King has afforded
us at first but a base inn for our residence, and now a corner of
this moth eaten palace, out of which we are only permitted to creep
towards sunset, as if we were bats or owls, whose appearance in
the sunshine is to be held matter of ill omen."

"I am sorry," said the Princess, faltering with the awkward embarrassment
of the interview, "that we have been unable, hitherto, to receive
you according to your deserts. -- Your niece, I trust, is better
satisfied?"

"Much -- much better than I can express," answered the youthful
Countess. "I sought but safety and I have found solitude and secrecy
besides. The seclusion of our former residence, and the still
greater solitude of that now assigned to us, augment, in my eye,
the favour which the King vouchsafed to us unfortunate fugitives."

"Silence, my silly cousin," said the elder lady, "and let us speak
according to our conscience, since at last we are alone with one
of our own sex -- I say alone, for that handsome young soldier is
a mere statue, since he seems not to have the use of his limbs,
and I am given to understand he wants that of his tongue, at least
in civilized language -- I say, since no one but this lady can
understand us, I must own there is nothing I have regretted equal
to taking this French journey. I looked for a splendid reception,
tournaments, carousals, pageants, and festivals; instead of which,
all has been seclusion and obscurity! and the best society whom the
King introduced to us, was a Bohemian vagabond, by whose agency he
directed us to correspond with our friends in Flanders. -- Perhaps,"
said the lady, "it is his politic intention to mew us up here
until our lives' end, that he may seize on our estates, after the
extinction of the ancient house of Croye. The Duke of Burgundy was
not so cruel; he offered my niece a husband, though he was a bad
one."

"I should have thought the veil preferable to an evil husband,"
said the Princess, with difficulty finding opportunity to interpose
a word.

"One would at least wish to have the choice, madam," replied the
voluble dame. "It is, Heaven knows, on account of my niece that I
speak; for myself, I have long laid aside thoughts of changing my
condition. I see you smile, but by my halidome, it is true -- yet
that is no excuse for the King, whose conduct, like his person,
hath more resemblance to that of old Michaud, the moneychanger of
Ghent, than to the successor of Charlemagne."

"Hold!" said the Princess, with some asperity in her tone; "remember
you speak of my father."

"Of your father!" replied the Burgundian lady, in surprise.

"Of my father," repeated the Princess, with dignity, "I am Joan
of France. -- But fear not, madam," she continued, in the gentle
accent which was natural to her, "you designed no offence, and I
have taken none. Command my influence to render your exile and that
of this interesting young person more supportable. Alas! it is but
little I have in my power, but it is willingly offered."

Deep and submissive was the reverence with which the Countess Hameline
de Croye, so was the elder lady called, received the obliging offer
of the Princess's protection. She had been long the inhabitant of
courts, was mistress of the manners which are there acquired, and
held firmly the established rule of courtiers of all ages, who,
although their usual private conversation turns upon the vices and
follies of their patrons, and on the injuries and neglect which
they themselves have sustained, never suffer such hints to drop
from them in the presence of the Sovereign or those of his family.
The lady was, therefore, scandalised to the last degree at the
mistake which had induced her to speak so indecorously in presence
of the daughter of Louis. She would have exhausted herself in
expressing regret and making apologies, had she not been put to
silence and restored to equanimity by the Princess, who requested,
in the most gentle manner, yet which, from a Daughter of France,
had the weight of a command, that no more might be said in the way
either of excuse or of explanation.

The Princess Joan then took her own chair with a dignity which
became her, and compelled the two strangers to sit, one on either
hand, to which the younger consented with unfeigned and respectful
diffidence, and the elder with an affectation of deep humility and
deference which was intended for such.

They spoke together, but in such a low tone that the sentinel could
not overhear their discourse, and only remarked that the Princess
seemed to bestow much of her regard on the younger and more
interesting lady; and that the Countess Hameline, though speaking
a great deal more, attracted less of the Princess's attention by
her full flow of conversation and compliment, than did her kinswoman
by her brief and modest replies to what was addressed to her.

The conversation of the ladies had not lasted a quarter of an
hour, when the door at the lower end of the hall opened, and a man
entered shrouded in a riding cloak. Mindful of the King's injunction,
and determined not to be a second time caught slumbering, Quentin
instantly moved towards the intruder, and, interposing between him
and the ladies, requested him to retire instantly.

"By whose command?" said the stranger, in a tone of contemptuous
surprise.

"By that of the King," said Quentin, firmly, "which I am placed
here to enforce."

"Not against Louis of Orleans," said the Duke, dropping his cloak.

The young man hesitated a moment; but how enforce his orders against
the first Prince of the Blood, about to be allied, as the report
now generally went, with the King's own family?

"Your Highness," he said, "is too great that your pleasure should
be withstood by me. I trust your Highness will bear me witness that
I have done the duty of my post so far as your will permitted."

"Go to -- you shall have no blame, young soldier," said Orleans;
and passing forward, paid his compliments to the Princess, with that
air of constraint which always marked his courtesy when addressing
her.

He had been dining, he said, with Dunois, and understanding there
was society in Roland's Gallery, he had ventured on the freedom of
adding one to the number.

The colour which mounted into the pale cheek of the unfortunate
Joan, and which for the moment spread something of beauty over her
features, evinced that this addition to the company was anything
but indifferent to her. She hastened to present the Prince to the
two Ladies of Croye, who received him with the respect due to his
eminent rank; and the Princess, pointing to a chair, requested him
to join their conversation party.

The Duke declined the freedom of assuming a seat in such society;
but taking a cushion from one of the settles, he laid it at the feet
of the beautiful young Countess of Croye, and so seated himself,
that, without appearing to neglect the Princess, he was enabled to
bestow the greater share of his attention on her lovely neighbour.

At first, it seemed as if this arrangement rather pleased
than offended his destined bride. She encouraged the Duke in his
gallantries towards the fair stranger, and seemed to regard them as
complimentary to herself. But the Duke of Orleans, though accustomed
to subject his mind to the stern yoke of his uncle when in the
King's presence, had enough of princely nature to induce him to
follow his own inclinations whenever that restraint was withdrawn;
and his high rank giving him a right to overstep the ordinary
ceremonies, and advance at once to familiarity, his praises of the
Countess Isabelle's beauty became so energetic, and flowed with such
unrestrained freedom, owing perhaps to his having drunk a little
more wine than usual -- for Dunois was no enemy to the worship of
Bacchus -- that at length he seemed almost impassioned, and the
presence of the Princess appeared well nigh forgotten.

The tone of compliment which he indulged was grateful only to
one individual in the circle; for the Countess Hameline already
anticipated the dignity of an alliance with the first Prince of the
Blood, by means of her whose birth, beauty, and large possessions
rendered such an ambitious consummation by no means impossible, even
in the eyes of a less sanguine projector, could the views of Louis
XI have been left out of the calculation of chances. The younger
Countess listened to the Duke's gallantries with anxiety and
embarrassment, and ever and anon turned an entreating look towards
the Princess, as if requesting her to come to her relief. But the
wounded feelings and the timidity of Joan of France rendered her
incapable of an effort to make the conversation more general; and
at length, excepting a few interjectional civilities of the Lady
Hameline, it was maintained almost exclusively by the Duke himself,
though at the expense of the younger Countess of Croye, whose beauty
formed the theme of his high flown eloquence.

Nor must I forget that there was a third person, the unregarded
sentinel, who saw his fair visions melt away like wax before the
sun, as the Duke persevered in the warm tenor of his passionate
discourse. At length the Countess Isabelle de Croye made a determined
effort to cut short what was becoming intolerably disagreeable to
her, especially from the pain to which the conduct of the Duke was
apparently subjecting the Princess.

Addressing the latter, she said, modestly, but with some firmness,
that the first boon she had to claim from her promised protection
was, "that her Highness would undertake to convince the Duke
of Orleans that the ladies of Burgundy, though inferior in wit
and manners to those of France, were not such absolute fools as
to be pleased with no other conversation than that of extravagant
compliment."

"I grieve, lady," said the Duke, preventing the Princess's answer,
"that you will satirize, in the same sentence, the beauty of the
dames of Burgundy and the sincerity of the Knights of France. If
we are hasty and extravagant in the expression of our admiration,
it is because we love as we fight, Without letting cold deliberation
come into our bosoms, and surrender to the fair with the same
rapidity with which we defeat the valiant."

"The beauty of our countrywomen," said the young Countess, with
more of reproof than she had yet ventured to use towards the high
born suitor, "is as unfit to claim such triumphs, as the valour of
the men of Burgundy is incapable of yielding them."

"I respect your patriotism, Countess," said the Duke; "and the last
branch of your theme shall not be impugned by me, till a Burgundian
knight shall offer to sustain it with lance in rest. But for
the injustice which you have done to the charms which your land
produces, I appeal from yourself to yourself. -- Look there," he
said, pointing to a large mirror, the gift of the Venetian republic,
and then of the highest rarity and value, "and tell me, as you
look, what is the heart that can resist the charms there represented?"

The Princess, unable to sustain any longer the neglect of her
lover, here sunk backwards on her chair with a sigh, which at once
recalled the Duke from the land of romance, and induced the Lady
Hameline to ask whether her Highness found herself ill.

"A sudden pain shot through my forehead," said the Princess,
attempting to smile; "but I shall be presently better."

Her increasing paleness contradicted her words, and induced the
Lady Hameline to call for assistance, as the Princess was about to
faint.

The Duke, biting his lip, and cursing the folly which could not
keep guard over his tongue, ran to summon the Princess's attendants,
who were in the next chamber, and when they came hastily, with the
usual remedies, he could not but, as a cavalier and gentleman, give
his assistance to support and to recover her. His voice, rendered
almost tender by pity and self reproach, was the most powerful
means of recalling her to herself, and just as the swoon was passing
away, the King himself entered the apartment.


CHAPTER XII: THE POLITICIAN

This is a lecturer, so skill'd in policy,
That (no disparagement to Satan's cunning)
He well might read a lesson to the devil,
And teach the old seducer new temptations.

OLD PLAY


As Louis entered the gallery, he bent his brows in the manner we
have formerly described as peculiar to him, and sent, from under
his gathered and gloomy eyebrows, a keen look on all around; in
darting which, as Quentin afterwards declared, his eyes seemed to
turn so small, so fierce, and so piercing, as to resemble those
of an aroused adder looking through the bush of heath in which he
lies coiled.

When, by this momentary and sharpened glance, the King had
reconnoitered the cause of the bustle which was in the apartment,
his first address was to the Duke of Orleans.

"You here, my fair cousin?" he said; -- and turning to Quentin,
added sternly, "Had you not charge?"

"Forgive the young man, Sire," said the Duke; "he did not neglect
his duty; but I was informed that the Princess was in this gallery."

"And I warrant you would not be withstood when you came hither to
pay your court," said the King, whose detestable hypocrisy persisted
in representing the Duke as participating in a passion which was
felt only on the side of his unhappy daughter; "and it is thus you
debauch the sentinels of my guard, young man? -- But what cannot
be pardoned to a gallant who only lives par amours [by his love
affairs]?"

The Duke of Orleans raised his head, as if about to reply in some
manner which might correct the opinion conveyed in the King's
observation; but the instinctive reverence, not to say fear, of
Louis, in which he had been bred from childhood, chained up his
voice.

"And Joan hath been ill?" said the King; "but do not be grieved,
Louis; it will soon pass away; lend her your arm to her apartment,
while I will conduct these strange ladies to theirs."

The order was given in a tone which amounted to a command, and
Orleans accordingly made his exit with the Princess at one extremity
of the gallery, while the King, ungloving his right hand, courteously
handed the Countess Isabelle and her kinswoman to their apartment,
which opened from the other. He bowed profoundly as they entered,
and remained standing on the threshold for a minute after they had
disappeared; then, with great composure, shut the door by which
they had retired and turning the huge key, took it from the lock,
and put it into his girdle -- an appendage which gave him still
more perfectly the air of some old miser, who cannot journey in
comfort unless he bear with him the key of his treasure closet.

With slow and pensive step, and eyes fixed on the ground, Louis
now paced towards Quentin Durward, who, expecting his share of the
royal displeasure, viewed his approach with no little anxiety.

"Thou hast done wrong," said the King, raising his eyes, and fixing
them firmly on him when he had come within a yard of him, -- "thou
hast done foul wrong, and deservest to die. -- Speak not a word
in defence! -- What hadst thou to do with Dukes or Princesses? --
what with any thing but my order?"

"So please your Majesty," said the young soldier, "what could I
do?"

"What couldst thou do when thy post was forcibly passed?" answered
the King, scornfully, -- "what is the use of that weapon on
thy shoulder? Thou shouldst have levelled thy piece, and if the
presumptuous rebel did not retire on the instant, he should have
died within this very hall! Go -- pass into these farther apartments.
In the first thou wilt find a large staircase, which leads to the
inner Bailley; there thou wilt find Oliver Dain [the inner bailey
contained the stables and often the chapel. It communicated directly
with the keep]. Send him to me -- do thou begone to thy quarters.
-- As thou dost value thy life, be not so loose of thy tongue as
thou hast been this day slack of thy hand."

Well pleased to escape so easily, yet with a soul which revolted
at the cold blooded cruelty which the King seemed to require from
him in the execution of his duty, Durward took the road indicated;
hastened down stairs, and communicated the royal pleasure to Oliver,
who was waiting in the court beneath. The wily tonsor bowed, sighed,
and smiled, as, with a voice even softer than ordinary, he wished
the youth a good evening; and they parted, Quentin to his quarters,
and Oliver to attend the King.

In this place, the Memoirs which we have chiefly followed in
compiling this true history were unhappily defective; for, founded
chiefly on information supplied by Quentin, they do not convey the
purport of the dialogue which, in his absence, took place between
the King and his secret counsellor. Fortunately the Library of
Hautlieu contains a manuscript copy of the Chronique Scandaleuse of
Jean de Troyes [the Marquis de Hautlieu is the name of an imaginary
character in whose library Scott declares himself to have found the
memorials which form the basis of the novel of Quentin Durward],
much more full than that which has been printed; to which are added
several curious memoranda, which we incline to think must have been
written down by Oliver himself after the death of his master, and
before he had the happiness to be rewarded with the halter which he
had so long merited. From this we have been able to extract a very
full account of the obscure favourite's conversation with Louis
upon the present occasion, which throws a light upon the policy of
that Prince, which we might otherwise have sought for in vain.

When the favourite attendant entered the Gallery of Roland, he
found the King pensively seated upon the chair which his daughter
had left some minutes before. Well acquainted with his temper, he
glided on with his noiseless step until he had just crossed the
line of the King's sight, so as to make him aware of his presence,
then shrank modestly backward and out of sight, until he should
be summoned to speak or to listen. The Monarch's first address was
an unpleasant one: "So, Oliver, your fine schemes are melting like
snow before the south wind! -- I pray to Our Lady of Embrun that
they resemble not the ice heaps of which the Switzer churls tell
such stories, and come rushing down upon our heads."

"I have heard with concern that all is not well, Sire," answered
Oliver.

"Not well!" exclaimed the King, rising and hastily marching up and
down the gallery. "All is ill, man -- and as ill nearly as possible;
so much for thy fond romantic advice, that I, of all men, should
become a protector of distressed damsels! I tell thee Burgundy is
arming, and on the eve of closing an alliance with England. And
Edward, who hath his hands idle at home, will pour his thousands
upon us through that unhappy gate of Calais. Singly, I might cajole
or defy them; but united, united -- and with the discontent and
treachery of that villain Saint Paul! -- All thy fault, Oliver,
who counselled me to receive the women, and to use the services of
that damned Bohemian to carry messages to their vassals."

"My lord," said Oliver, "you know my reasons. The Countess's
domains lie between the frontiers of Burgundy and Flanders -- her
castle is almost impregnable -- her rights over neighbouring estates
are such as, if well supported, cannot but give much annoyance to
Burgundy, were the lady but wedded to one who should be friendly
to France."

"It is, it is a tempting bait," said the King; "and could we have
concealed her being here, we might have arranged such a marriage
for this rich heiress as would have highly profited -- France. But
that cursed Bohemian, how couldst thou recommend such a heathen
hound for a commission which required trust?"

"Please you," said Oliver, "to remember it was your Grace's self
who trusted him too far -- much farther than I recommended. He
would have borne a letter trustily enough to the Countess's kinsman,
telling him to hold out her castle, and promising speedy relief;
but your Highness must needs put his prophetic powers to the test;
and thus he became possessed of secrets which were worth betraying
to Duke Charles."

"I am ashamed, I am ashamed," said Louis. "And yet, Oliver, they
say that these heathen people are descended from the sage Chaldeans,
who did read the mysteries of the stars in the plains of Shinar
[they lie between the Tigris and Euphrates]."

Perhaps his coming later than the rest may have contributed to
lessen the esteem he deserves.
Garth had success as a poet; and, for a time, his fame was even
greater than his desert. In his principal work, 'The Dispensary',
his versification is negligent; and his plot is now become
tedious; but whatever he may lose as a poet, it would be improper
to rob him of the merit he deserves for having written the prose
dedication, and preface, to the poem already mentioned; in which
he has shown the truest wit, with the most refined elegance.

Parnell, though he has written but one poem, namely, 'The
Hermit', yet has found a place among the English first rate poets.
Gay, likewise, by his 'Fables' and 'Pastorals', has acquired an
equal reputation.

But of all who have added to the stock of English Poetry, Pope,
perhaps, deserves the first place. On him, foreigners look as one
of the most successful writers of his time; his versification is
the most harmonious, and his correctness the most remarkable of all
our poets.

A noted contemporary of his own calls the English the finest writers
on moral topics, and Pope the noblest moral writer of all the English.
Mr. Pope has somewhere named himself the last English Muse; and,
indeed, since his time, we have seen scarce any production that
can justly lay claim to immortality; he carried the language to its
highest perfection; and those who have attempted still farther to
improve it, instead of ornament, have only caught finery.'

APPENDIX F

CRITICISMS FROM GOLDSMITH'S 'BEAUTIES OF ENGLISH POESY.'
To 'The Beauties of English Poesy', 2 vols., 1767, Goldsmith prefixed,
in each case, 'short introductory criticisms.' They are, as he
says, 'rather designed for boys than men'; and aim only at being
'obvious and sincere'; but they carry his views on the subject
somewhat farther than the foregoing account from the 'History of
England'.

THE RAPE OF THE LOCK.

This seems to be Mr. Pope's most finished production, and is,
perhaps, the most perfect in our language. It exhibits stronger powers
of imagination, more harmony of numbers, and a greater knowledge of
the world, than any other of this poet's works; and it is probable,
if our country were called upon to show a specimen of their genius
to foreigners, this would be the work here fixed upon.

THE HERMIT.

This poem is held in just esteem, the versification being chaste, and
tolerably harmonious, and the story told with perspicuity and
conciseness. It seems to have cost great labour, both to Mr. Pope
and Parnell himself, to bring it to this perfection.* It may not
be amiss to observe that the fable is taken from one of Dr.

Henry More's Dialogues.

[footnote] *Parnell's 'Poems', 1770, xxiv.

IL PENSEROSO.

I have heard a very judicious critic say, that he had an higher
idea of Milton's style in poetry, from the two following poems
['Il Penseroso' and 'l'Allegro'], than from his 'Paradise Lost'.
It is certain the imagination shown in them is correct and strong.
The introduction to both in irregular measure is borrowed from the
Italian, and hurts an English ear.

AN ELEGY, WRITTEN IN A COUNTRY CHURCH YARD.

This is a very fine poem, but overloaded with epithet.* The heroic
measure with alternate rhyme is very properly adapted to the
solemnity of the subject, as it is the slowest movement that our
language admits of.

The latter part of the poem is pathetic and interesting.

[footnote] *This is a strange complaint to come from Goldsmith, whose
own 'Hermit', as was pointed out to the present Editor by the late
Mr. Kegan Paul, is certainly open to this impeachment.
LONDON. IN IMITATION OF THE THIRD SATIRE OF JUVENAL.
This poem of Mr. Johnson's is the best imitation of the original
that has appeared in our language, being possessed of all the force
and satirical resentment of Juvenal. Imitation gives us a much truer
idea of the ancients than even translation could do.
THE SCHOOL-MISTRESS. IN IMITATION OF SPENSER.
This poem is one of those happinesses in which a poet excels himself,
as there is nothing in all Shenstone which in any way approaches
it in merit; and, though I dislike the imitations of our old English
poets in general, yet, on this minute subject, the antiquity of the
style produces a very ludicrous solemnity.But methinks
thy speech sounded strangely in that key. -- Well, to return. -- I
dare not wed this beauty to one of my subjects -- I dare not return
her to Burgundy -- I dare not transmit her to England or to Germany,
where she is likely to become the prize of some one more apt to
unite with Burgundy than with France, and who would be more ready
to discourage the honest malcontents in Ghent and Liege, than to
yield them that wholesome countenance which might always find Charles
the Hardy enough to exercise his valour on, without stirring from
his domains -- and they were in so ripe a humour for insurrection,
the men of Liege in especial, that they alone, well heated and
supported, would find my fair cousin work for more than a twelvemonth;
and backed by a warlike Count of Croye -- O, Oliver! the plan is
too hopeful to be resigned without a struggle. -- Cannot thy fertile
brain devise some scheme?"

Oliver paused for a long time -- then at last replied, "What if a
bridal could be accomplished betwixt Isabelle of Croye and young
Adolphus, the Duke of Gueldres?"

"What!" said the King, in astonishment "sacrifice her, and she,
too, so lovely a creature, to the furious wretch who deposed,
imprisoned, and has often threatened to murder his own father! --
No, Oliver, no that were too unutterably cruel even for you and
me, who look so steadfastly to our excellent end, the peace and the
welfare of France, and respect so little the means by which it is
attained. Besides, he lies distant from us and is detested by the
people of Ghent and Liege. -- No, no -- I will none of Adolphus of
Gueldres -- think on some one else."

"My invention is exhausted, Sire," said the counsellor; "I can
remember no one who, as husband to the Countess of Croye, would be
likely to answer your Majesty's views. He must unite such various
qualities -- a friend to your Majesty -- an enemy to Burgundy --
of policy enough to conciliate the Ghentois and Liegeois, and of
valour sufficient to defend his little dominions against the power
of Duke Charles -- of noble birth besides -- that your Highness
insists upon; and of excellent and virtuous character to the boot
of all."

"Nay, Oliver," said the King, "I leaned not so much -- that is so
very much, on character; but methinks Isabelle's bridegroom should
be something less publicly and generally abhorred than Adolphus
of Gueldres. For example, since I myself must suggest some one --
why not William de la Marck?"

"On my halidome, Sire," said Oliver, "I cannot complain of your
demanding too high a standard of moral excellence in the happy
man, if the Wild Boar of Ardennes can serve your turn. De la Marck!
-- why, he is the most notorious robber and murderer on all the
frontiers -- excommunicated by the Pope for a thousand crimes."

"We will have him released from the sentence, friend Oliver -- Holy
Church is merciful."

"Almost an outlaw," continued Oliver, "and under the ban of the
Empire, by an ordinance of the Chamber at Ratisbon."

[Ratisbon was the seat of the German Reichstag from 1663 to 1806.]

"We will have the ban taken off, friend Oliver," continued the
King, in the same tone; "the Imperial Chamber will hear reason."

[A supreme court of appeals established in 1495 by Maximilian I:
the first law court established in Germany.]

"And admitting him to be of noble birth," said Oliver, "he hath the
manners, the face, and the outward form, as well as the heart, of
a Flemish butcher -- she will never accept of him."

"His mode of wooing, if I mistake him not," said Louis, "will render
it difficult for her to make a choice."

"I was far wrong indeed, when I taxed your Majesty with being
over scrupulous," said the counsellor. "On my life, the crimes of
Adolphus are but virtues to those of De la Marck! -- And then how
is he to meet with his bride? Your Majesty knows he dare not stir
far from his own forest of Ardennes."

"That must be cared for," said the King; "and, in the first place,
the two ladies must be acquainted privately that they can be no
longer maintained at this Court, except at the expense of a war
between France and Burgundy, and that, unwilling to deliver them up
to my fair cousin of Burgundy, I am desirous they should secretly
depart from my dominions."

"They will demand to be conveyed to England," said Oliver "and we
shall have her return to Flanders with an island lord, having a
round, fair face, long brown hair, and three thousand archers at
his back."

"No -- no," replied the king; "we dare not (you understand me) so
far offend our fair cousin of Burgundy as to let her pass to England.
It would bring his displeasure as certainly as our maintaining her
here. No, no -- to the safety of the Church alone we will venture
to commit her; and the utmost we can do is to connive at the Ladies
Hameline and Isabelle de Croye departing in disguise, and with a
small retinue, to take refuge with the Bishop of Liege, who will
place the fair Isabelle for the time under the safeguard of a
convent."

"And if that convent protect her from William de la Marck, when
he knows of your Majesty's favourable intentions, I have mistaken
the man."

"Why, yes," answered the King, "thanks to our secret supplies of
money, De la Marck hath together a handsome handful of as unscrupulous
soldiery as ever were outlawed; with which he contrives to maintain
himself among the woods, in such a condition as makes him formidable
both to the Duke of Burgundy and the Bishop of Liege. He lacks
nothing but some territory which he may call his own; and this
being so fair an opportunity to establish himself by marriage, I
think that, Pasques dieu! he will find means to win and wed, without
more than a hint on our part. The Duke of Burgundy will then have
such a thorn in his side as no lancet of our time will easily
cut out from his flesh. The Boar of Ardennes, whom he has already
outlawed, strengthened by the possession of that fair lady's lands,
castles, and seigniory, with the discontented Liegeois to boot,
who, by may faith, will not be in that case unwilling to choose
him for their captain and leader -- let Charles then think of wars
with France when he will, or rather let him bless his stars if she
war not with him. -- How dost thou like the scheme, Oliver, ha?"

"Rarely," said Oliver, "save and except the doom which confers
that lady on the Wild Boar of Ardennes. -- By my halidome, saving
in a little outward show of gallantry, Tristan, the Provost Marshal,
were the more proper bridegroom of the two."

"Anon thou didst propose Master Oliver the barber," said Louis; "but
friend Oliver and gossip Tristan, though excellent men in the way
of counsel and execution, are not the stuff that men make counts of.
- Know you not that the burghers of Flanders value birth in other
men precisely because they have it not themselves? -- A plebeian
mob ever desire an aristocratic leader. Yonder Ked, or Cade, or
-- how called they him? -- in England, was fain to lure his rascal
rout after him by pretending to the blood of the Mortimers [Jack
Cade was the leader of Cade's Rebellion. Calling himself Mortimer,
and claiming to be a cousin of Richard, Duke of York, in 1450,
at the head of twenty thousand men, he took formal possession of
London. His alleged object was to procure representation for the
people, and so reduce excessive taxation.]. William de la Marck
comes of the blood of the Princes of Sedan, as noble as mine own.
-- And now to business. I must determine the ladies of Croye to a
speedy and secret flight, under sure guidance. This will be easily
done -- we have but to hint the alternative of surrendering them
to Burgundy. Thou must find means to let William de la Marck know
of their motions, and let him choose his own time and place to push
his suit. I know a fit person to travel with them."

"May I ask to whom your Majesty commits such an important charge?"
asked the tonsor.

"To a foreigner, be sure," replied the King, "one who has neither
kin nor interest in France, to interfere with the execution of my
pleasure; and who knows too little of the country and its factions,
to suspect more of my purpose than I choose to tell him -- in
a word, I design to employ the young Scot who sent you hither but
now."

Oliver paused in a manner which seemed to imply a doubt of the
prudence of the choice, and then added, "Your Majesty has reposed
confidence in that stranger boy earlier than is your wont."

"I have my reasons," answered the King. "Thou knowest" (and he
crossed himself) "my devotion for the blessed Saint Julian. I had
been saying my orisons to that holy Saint late in the night before
last, wherein (as he is known to be the guardian of travellers) I
made it my humble petition that he would augment my household with
such wandering foreigners as might best establish throughout our
kingdom unlimited devotion to our will; and I vowed to the good
Saint in guerdon, that I would, in his name, receive, and relieve;
and maintain them."

"And did Saint Julian," said Oliver, "send your Majesty this long
legged importation from Scotland in answer to your prayers?"

Although the barber, who well knew that his master had superstition
in a large proportion to his want of religion, and that on such
topics nothing was more easy than to offend him -- although, I
say, he knew the royal weakness, and therefore carefully put the
preceding question in the softest and most simple tone of voice,
Louis felt the innuendo which it contained, and regarded the speaker
with high displeasure.

"Sirrah," he said, "thou art well called Oliver the Devil, who
darest thus to sport at once with thy master and with the blessed
Saints. I tell thee, wert thou one grain less necessary to me,
I would have thee hung up on yonder oak before the Castle, as an
example to all who scoff at things holy -- Know, thou infidel slave,
that mine eyes were no sooner closed; than the blessed Saint Julian
was visible to me, leading a young man whom he presented to me,
saying that his fortune should be to escape the sword, the cord,
the river, and to bring good fortune to the side which he should
espouse, and to the adventures in which he should be engaged.
I walked out on the succeeding morning and I met with this youth,
whose image I had seen in my dream. In his own country he hath escaped
the sword, amid the massacre of his whole family, and here within
the brief compass of two days, he hath been strangely rescued from
drowning and from the gallows, and hath already, on a particular
occasion, as I but lately hinted to thee, been of the most material
service to me. I receive him as sent hither by Saint Julian to
serve me in the most difficult, the most dangerous, and even the
most desperate services."

The King, as he thus expressed himself, doffed his hat, and selecting
from the numerous little leaden figures with which the hat band was
garnished that which represented Saint Julian, he placed it on the
table, as was often his wont when some peculiar feeling of hope,
or perhaps of remorse, happened to thrill across his mind, and,
kneeling down before it, muttered, with an appearance of profound
devotion, "Sancte Juliane, adsis precibus nostris! Ora, ora, pro
nobis! [St. Julian, give heed to our prayers. Plead, plead for
us!]"

This was one of those ague fits of superstitious devotion which
often seized on Louis in such extraordinary times and places, that
they gave one of the most sagacious monarchs who ever reigned the
appearance of a madman, or at least of one whose mind was shaken
by some deep consciousness of guilt.

While he was thus employed, his favourite looked at him with
an expression of sarcastic contempt which he scarce attempted to
disguise. Indeed, it was one of this man's peculiarities, that in
his whole intercourse with his master, he laid aside that fondling,
purring affectation of officiousness and humility which distinguished
his conduct to others; and if he still bore some resemblance to a
cat, it was when the animal is on its guard, -- watchful, animated,
and alert for sudden exertion. The cause of this change was probably
Oliver's consciousness that his Master was himself too profound a
hypocrite not to see through the hypocrisy of others.

"The features of this youth, then, if I may presume to speak," said
Oliver, "resemble those of him whom your dream exhibited?"

"Closely and intimately," said the King, whose imagination, like
that of superstitious people in general, readily imposed upon itself.
"I have had his horoscope cast, besides, by Galeotti Martivalle, and
I have plainly learned, through his art and mine own observation,
that, in many respects, this unfriended youth has his destiny under
the same constellation with mine."

Whatever Oliver might think of the causes thus boldly assigned
for the preference of an inexperienced stripling, he dared make no
farther objections, well knowing that Louis, who, while residing in
exile, had bestowed much of his attention on the supposed science
of judicial astrology, would listen to no raillery of any kind which
impeached his skill. He therefore only replied that he trusted the
youth would prove faithful in the discharge of a task so delicate.

"We will take care he hath no opportunity to be otherwise," said
Louis; "for he shall be privy to nothing, save that he is sent to
escort the Ladies of Croye to the residence of the Bishop of Liege.
Of the probable interference of William de la Marck he shall know
as little as they themselves. None shall know that secret but the
guide; and Tristan or thou must find one fit for our purpose."

"But in that case," said Oliver, "judging of him from his country
and his appearance, the young man is like to stand to his arms as
soon as the Wild Boar comes on them, and may not come off so easily
from the tusks as he did this morning."

"If they rend his heart strings," said Louis, composedly, "Saint
Julian, blessed be his name! can send me another in his stead.
It skills as little that the messenger is slain after his duty is
executed, as that the flask is broken when the wine is drunk out.
-- Meanwhile, we must expedite the ladies' departure, and then
persuade the Count de Crevecoeur that it has taken place without our
connivance; we having been desirous to restore them to the custody
of our fair cousin, which their sudden departure has unhappily
prevented."

"The Count is perhaps too wise, and his master too prejudiced, to
believe it."

"Holy Mother!" said Louis, "what unbelief would that be in Christian
men! But, Oliver, they shall believe us. We will throw into our
whole conduct towards our fair cousin, Duke Charles, such thorough
and unlimited confidence, that, not to believe we have been sincere
with him in every respect, he must be worse than an infidel. I
tell thee, so convinced am I that I could make Charles of Burgundy
think of me in every respect as I would have him, that, were it
necessary for silencing his doubts, I would ride unarmed, and on
a palfrey, to visit him in his tent, with no better guard about me
than thine own simple person, friend Oliver."

"And I," said Oliver, "though I pique not myself upon managing
steel in any other shape than that of a razor, would rather charge
a Swiss battalion of pikes, than I would accompany your Highness
upon such a visit of friendship to Charles of Burgundy, when he
hath so many grounds to be well assured that there is enmity in
your Majesty's bosom against him."

"Thou art a fool, Oliver," said the King, "with all thy pretensions
to wisdom -- and art not aware that deep policy must often assume
the appearance of the most extreme simplicity, as courage occasionally
shrouds itself under the show of modest timidity. Were it needful,
full surely would I do what I have said -- the Saints always blessing
our purpose, and the heavenly constellations bringing round in
their course a proper conjuncture for such an exploit."

In these words did King Louis XI give the first hint of the
extraordinary resolution which he afterwards adopted in order to
dupe his great rival, the subsequent execution of which had very
nearly proved his own ruin.

He parted with his counsellor, and presently afterwards went to
the apartment of the Ladies of Croye. Few persuasions beyond his
mere license would have been necessary to determine their retreat
from the Court of France, upon the first hint that they might not
be eventually protected against the Duke of Burgundy; but it was
not so easy to induce them to choose Liege for the place of their
retreat. They entreated and requested to be transferred to Bretagne
or Calais, where, under protection of the Duke of Bretagne or
King of England, they might remain in a state of safety, until the
sovereign of Burgundy should relent in his rigorous purpose towards
them. But neither of these places of safety at all suited the plans
of Louis, and he was at last successful in inducing them to adopt
that which did coincide with them.

The power of the Bishop of Liege for their defence was not to be
questioned, since his ecclesiastical dignity gave him the means
of protecting the fugitives against all Christian Princes; while,
on the other hand, his secular forces, if not numerous, seemed at
least sufficient to defend his person, and all under his protection,
from any sudden violence. The difficulty was to reach the little
Court of the Bishop in safety; but for this Louis promised to provide,
by spreading a report that the Ladies of Croye had escaped from
Tours by night, under fear of being delivered up to the Burgundian
Envoy, and had taken their flight towards Bretagne. He also promised
them the attendance of a small but faithful retinue, and letters
to the commanders of such towns and fortresses as they might pass,
with instructions to use every means for protecting and assisting
them in their journey.

The Ladies of Croye, although internally resenting the ungenerous
and discourteous manner in which Louis thus deprived them of the
promised asylum in his Court, were so far from objecting to the
hasty departure which he proposed, that they even anticipated his
project, by entreating to be permitted to set forward that same
night. Sir Roland had just got out of a compartment further up the
train, and soon we were in conversation. He too had come from
London, but whereas Dick and I had only just caught the train,
Sir Roland had, he said, entered it as soon as it came into the
station, which accounted for our not having seen him at Paddington.
As we walked along the Newbury platform I explained to him very
briefly the reason I had come down, and how it was I had Dick with
me, inwardly congratulating myself upon my good fortune in thus
meeting Sir Roland and so being able to explain everything to him
concerning what had happened that day, before he should meet his
sister and hear what she would tell him.

"It was only at the last moment I decided to come by this train,"
Sir Roland said as he entered the taxi that a porter had hailed,
and I followed him, while Dick hopped in after us.

"How tiresome it is one can't get a conveyance at
Holt Stacey; people are for ever complaining
to me about it. As I have not telegraphed for
the car to meet me I had to come on to Newbury."

"I came to Newbury for the same reason," I said; and then, as the
taxi rolled swiftly along the dark lanes, for we had a twelve miles'
run before us, I gave Sir Roland a detailed account of all that had
happened that day, from the time Easterton had rung me up at my
flat to tell me of Jack Osborne's disappearance and to ask me to
come to him at once, down to the sudden and unexpected arrival of
Dick at Jack's rooms at the Russell Hotel.

Sir Roland was astounded, and a good deal perturbed. Several
times during the course of my narrative he had interrupted in
order to put some question or other to Dick. At first he had reproved
him for going to London on what Dick called "his own"; but when
I told him more he admitted that what the boy had done he had
done probably for the best.

"Oh, I haven't told you one thing," Dick suddenly interrupted.

"Well, what?" Sir Roland asked.

"While I was on my way to Holt Stacey this morning, Mrs. Stapleton
passed me in her car. I was on that part of the road, about a
mile from the lodge, where if you look round you can see a long
bit of the avenue.
I wondered if Mrs. Stapleton were going to Holt by any chance, so
I bicycled rather slowly for a minute or two, and looked round
once or twice. I had guessed right, because all at once I saw her
car going up the avenue."
"Are you sure it was Mrs. Stapleton?" I asked, suddenly interested.

"Oh, quite. But I don't think she saw me, her car went by so fast."

"Was anybody with her?"
"No, she was alone--the chauffeur was driving."
"And the car that went up the drive, are you sure it was the same?"

"Positive--that long grey car of hers, I'd know it anywhere; you
can recognize it ever so far away."
We were half a mile from the lodge, now. Soon we had shot through
the open gates, and were sliding up the splendid avenue. I felt
intensely excited, also happier than when in the train, for I
knew I now possessed Sir Roland's entire confidence. Delicious was
it to think that in a few minutes I should see Dulcie again, but
what excited me--and I knew it must be exciting Sir Roland
too--was the thought of that man--or would it prove to be a woman?--lying
concealed in the hiding-hole. Who could he be? How long had he
been there? How had he got there and what could he be doing?

I had told Sir Roland of the false conclusion Aunt Hannah had come
to with regard to the sending of that typed telegram, and how
bitterly she had spoken to me about it--I had thought it best to
prepare him for the absurd story that I felt sure Aunt Hannah would
proceed to pour into his ear directly she met him.

To my relief he had laughed, appearing to treat the matter of her
annoyance and suspicion as a joke, though the sending of the
telegram he looked upon, naturally, as a very grave matter.
Consequently, upon our arrival at Holt, instead of inquiring for his
sister, and at once consulting her upon the subject of the day's
events, as he would, I knew, have done under ordinary circumstances,
he told Charles, the footman, to send the butler to him at once,
and to return with him.

We were now in the little library--Sir Roland and myself, Dick, the
butler and the footman, and the door was shut. Without any preliminaries
Sir Roland came straight to the point. He told the two servants of
Dick's discovery that morning, told them that presumably the man
was still in hiding where Dick had bolted him down, and that
the four of us were at once going, as he put it, "to unearth the
scoundrel."
[Martius Galeotti . . . was secretary to Matthias Carvinus, King of
Hungary. He left Hungary in 1477, and was made prisoner at Venice
on a charge of having propagated heterodox opinions. . . . He might
have suffered seriously but for the protection of Sixtus IV, then
Pope, who had been one of his scholars. . . . He attached himself
to Louis XI, and died in his service. S.]

Martivalle was none of those ascetic, withered, pale professors
of mystic learning of those days, who bleared their eyes over the
midnight furnace, and macerated their bodies by out watching the
Polar Bear. He indulged in all courtly pleasures, and until he
grew corpulent, had excelled in all martial sports and gymnastic
exercises, as well as in the use of arms; insomuch, that Janus
Pannonius [a Hungarian poet of the fifteenth century] has left a
Latin epigram upon a wrestling match betwixt Galeotti and a renowned
champion of that art, in the presence of the Hungarian King and
Court, in which the Astrologer was completely victorious.

The apartments of this courtly and martial sage were far more
splendidly furnished than any which Quentin had yet seen in the royal
palace; and the carving and ornamented woodwork of his library, as
well as the magnificence displayed in the tapestries, showed the
elegant taste of the learned Italian. Out of his study one door
opened to his sleeping apartment, another led to the turret which
served as his observatory. A large open table, in the midst of
the chamber, was covered with a rich Turkey carpet, the spoils of
the tent of a Pacha, after the great battle of Jaiza, where the
Astrologer had fought abreast with the valiant champion of Christendom,
Matthias Corvinus. On the table lay a variety of mathematical and
astrological instruments, all of the most rich materials and curious
workmanship. His astrolabe of silver was the gift of the Emperor
of Germany, and his Jacob's staff of ebony [a divining rod made of
a hazel fork], jointed with gold and curiously inlaid, was a mark
of esteem from the reigning Pope.

There were various other miscellaneous articles disposed on the
table, or hanging around the walls; amongst others, two complete
suits of armour, one of mail, the other of plate, both of which,
from their great size, seemed to call the gigantic Astrologer their
owner; a Spanish toledo, a Scottish broadsword, a Turkish scymetar,
with bows, quivers, and other warlike weapons; musical instruments
of several different kinds; a silver crucifix, a sepulchral antique
vase, and several of the little brazen Penates of the ancient
heathens, with other curious nondescript articles, some of which,
in the superstitious opinions of that period, seemed to be designed
for magical purposes. The library of this singular character was of
the same miscellaneous description with its other effects. Curious
manuscripts of classical antiquity lay mingled with the voluminous
labours of Christian divines, and of those painstaking sages who
professed the chemical science, and proffered to guide their students
into the most secret recesses of nature, by means of the Hermetical
Philosophy [a system of philosophy ascribed to the Egyptian Hermes
(Thoth) who was reputed to have written certain sacred books
treating of religion and the natural sciences]. Some were written
in the Eastern character, and others concealed their sense or
nonsense under the veil of hieroglyphics and cabalistic characters.
The whole apartment and its furniture of every kind, formed a scene
very impressive on the fancy, considering the general belief then
indisputably entertained concerning the truth of the occult sciences;
and that effect was increased by the manners and appearance of
the individual himself, who, seated in a huge chair, was employed
in curiously examining a specimen, just issued from the Frankfort
press, of the newly invented art of printing.

Galeotti Martivalle was a tall, bulky, yet stately man, considerably
past his prime, and whose youthful habits of exercise, though
still occasionally resumed, had not been able to contend with his
natural tendency to corpulence, increased by sedentary study, and
indulgence in the pleasures of the table. His features, though
rather overgrown, were dignified and noble, and a Santon might have
envied the dark and downward sweep of his long descending beard.
His dress was a chamber robe of the richest Genoa velvet, with
ample sleeves, clasped with frogs of gold, and lined with sables.
It was fastened round his middle by a broad belt of virgin parchment,
round which were represented, in crimson characters, the signs of
the Zodiac. He rose and bowed to the King, yet with the air of one
to whom such exalted society was familiar, and who was not at all
likely, even in the royal presence, to compromise the dignity then
especially affected by the pursuers of science.

"You are engaged, father," said the King, "and, as I think, with
this new fashioned art of multiplying manuscripts by the intervention
of machinery. Can things of such mechanical and terrestrial import
interest the thoughts of one before whom Heaven has unrolled her
own celestial volumes?"

"My brother," replied Martivalle. "for so the tenant of this cell
must term even the King of France, when he deigns to visit him as
a disciple -- believe me that in considering the consequences of
this invention, I read with as certain augury as by any combination
of the heavenly bodies, the most awful and portentous changes.
When I reflect with what slow and limited supplies the stream of
science hath hitherto descended to us, how difficult to be obtained
by those most ardent in its search, how certain to be neglected by
all who regard their ease; how liable to be diverted, altogether
dried up, by the invasions of barbarism; can I look forward without
wonder and astonishment to the lot of a succeeding generation
on whom knowledge will descend like the first and second rain,
uninterrupted, unabated, unbounded; fertilizing some grounds,
and overflowing others; changing the whole form of social life;
establishing and overthrowing religions; erecting and destroying
kingdoms"

"Hold, Galeotti," said Louis, "shall these changes come in our
time?"

"No, my royal brother," replied Martivalle; "this invention may
be likened to a young tree, which is now newly planted, but shall,
in succeeding generations, bear fruit as fatal, yet as precious,
as that of the Garden of Eden; the knowledge, namely, of good and
evil."

Louis answered, after a moment's pause, "Let futurity look to what
concerns them -- we are men of this age, and to this age we will
confine our care. Sufficient for the day is the evil thereof.

"Tell me, hast thou proceeded farther in the horoscope Which I sent
to thee, and of which you made me some report? I have brought the
party hither, that you may use palmistry, or chiromancy if such is
your pleasure. The matter is pressing."

The bulky sage arose from his seat, and, approaching the young
soldier, fixed on him his keen large dark eyes as if he were in
the act of internally spelling and dissecting every lineament and
feature.

Blushing and borne down by this close examination on the part of
one whose expression was so reverend at once and commanding, Quentin
bent his eyes on the ground, and did not again raise them, till in
the act of obeying the sonorous command of the Astrologer, "Look
up and be not afraid, but hold forth thy hand."

When Martivalle had inspected his palm, according to the form of the
mystic arts which he practised, he led the King some steps aside.

"My royal brother," he said, "the physiognomy of this youth, together
with the lines impressed on his hand, confirm, in a wonderful
degree, the report which I founded on his horoscope, as well as
that judgment which your own proficiency in our sublime arts induced
you at once to form of him. All promises that this youth will be
brave and fortunate."

"And faithful?" said the King; "for valour and fortune square not
always with fidelity."

"And faithful also," said the Astrologer; "for there is manly
firmness in look and eye, and his linea vitae [the line of life, a
term used in palmistry] is deeply marked and clear, which indicates
a true and upright adherence to those who do benefit or lodge trust
in him. But yet --"

"But what?" said the King; "Father Galeotti, wherefore do you now
pause?"

"The ears of Kings," said the sage, "are like the palates of those
dainty patients which are unable to endure the bitterness of the
drugs necessary for their recovery."

"My ears and my palate have no such niceness," said Louis; "let me
hear what is useful counsel, and swallow what is wholesome medicine.
I quarrel not with the rudeness of the one, or the harsh taste of
the other. I have not been cockered in wantonness or indulgence;
my youth was one of exile and suffering. My ears are used to harsh
counsel, and take no offence at it."

"Then plainly, Sire," replied Galeotti, "if you have aught in
your purposed commission which -- which, in short, may startle a
scrupulous conscience -- intrust it not to this youth, at least,
not till a few years' exercise in your service has made him as
unscrupulous as others."

"And is this what you hesitated to speak, my good Galeotti? and
didst thou think thy speaking it would offend me?" said the King.
"Alack, I know that thou art well sensible that the path of royal policy
cannot be always squared (as that of private life ought invariably
to be) by the abstract maxims of religion and of morality. Wherefore
do we, the Princes of the earth, found churches and monasteries,
make pilgrimages, undergo penances, and perform devotions with
which others may dispense, unless it be because the benefit of the
public, and the welfare of our kingdoms, force us upon measures
which grieve our consciences as Christians? But Heaven has mercy,
the Church, an unbounded stock of merits and the intercession of
Our Lady of Embrun and the blessed saints, is urgent, everlasting,
and omnipotent."

He laid his hat on the table, and devoutly kneeling before the
images stuck into the hat band, repeated in an earnest tone, "Sancte
Huberte, Sancte Juliane, Sancte Martine, Sancta Rosalia, Sancti
quotquot adestis, orate pro me peccatore!" [St. Hubert, St. Julian,
St. Martin, St. Rosalia, all ye saints who hear me, pray for me,
a sinner.] He then smote his breast, arose, reassumed his hat, and
continued: "Be assured, good father, that whatever there may be in
our commission of the nature at which you have hinted, the execution
shall not be intrusted to this youth, nor shall he be privy to such
part of our purpose."

"In this," said the Astrologer, "you, my royal brother, will walk
wisely. -- Something may be apprehended likewise from the rashness
of this your young commissioner, a failing inherent in those of
sanguine complexion. But I hold that, by the rules of art, this
chance is not to be weighed against the other properties discovered
from his horoscope and otherwise."

"Will this next midnight be a propitious hour in which to commence
a perilous journey?" said the King. "See, here is your Ephemerides
-- you see the position of the moon in regard to Saturn, and the
ascendence of Jupiter. -- That should argue, methinks, in submission
to your better art, success to him who sends forth the expedition
at such an hour."

"To him who sends forth the expedition," said the Astrologer,
after a pause, "this conjunction doth indeed promise success; but,
methinks, that Saturn, being combust, threatens danger and infortune
to the party sent; whence I infer that the errand may be perilous,
or even fatal to those who are to journey. Violence and captivity,
methinks, are intimated in that adverse conjunction."

"Violence and captivity to those who are sent," answered the King,
"but success to the wishes of the sender. -- Runs it not thus, my
learned father?"

"Even so," replied the Astrologer.

The King paused, without giving any farther indication how far
this presaging speech (probably hazarded by the Astrologer from his
conjecture that the commission related to some dangerous purpose)
squared with his real object, which, as the reader is aware, was
to betray the Countess Isabelle of Croye into the hands of William
de la Marck, a nobleman indeed of high birth, but degraded by his
crimes into a leader of banditti, distinguished for his turbulent
disposition and ferocious bravery.

The King then pulled forth a paper from his pocket, and, ere he
gave it to Martivalle, said, in a tone which resembled that of an
apology, "Learned Galeotti, be not surprised that, possessing in
you an oracular treasure, superior to that lodged in the breast
of any now alive, not excepting the great Nostradamus himself [a
French astrologer of the sixteenth century, author of a book of
prophecies, which was condemned by the papal court in 1781], I am
desirous frequently to avail myself of your skill in those doubts
and difficulties which beset every Prince who hath to contend with
rebellion within his land, and with external enemies, both powerful
and inveterate."

"When I was honoured with your request, Sire," said the philosopher,
"and abandoned the Court of Buda for that of Plessis, it was with
the resolution to place at the command of my royal patron whatever
my art had, that might be of service to him."

"Enough, good Martivalle -- I pray thee attend to the import of
this question."

He proceeded to read from the paper in his hand: "A person having
on hand a weighty controversy, which is like to draw to debate
either by law or by force of arms, is desirous, for the present,
to seek accommodation by a personal interview with his antagonist.
He desires to know what day will be propitious for the execution
of such a purpose; also what is likely to be the success of such
a negotiation, and whether his adversary will be moved to answer
the confidence thus reposed in him, with gratitude and kindness, or
may rather be likely to abuse the opportunity and advantage which
such meeting may afford him."

"It is an important question," said Martivalle, when the King had
done reading, "and requires that I should set a planetary figure
[to prepare a diagram which would represent the heavens at that
particular moment], and give it instant and deep consideration."

"Let it be so, my good father in the sciences, and thou shalt know
what it is to oblige a King of France. We are determined, if the
constellations forbid not -- and our own humble art leads us to
think that they approve our purpose -- to hazard something, even
in our own person, to stop these anti-Christian wars."

"May the Saints forward your Majesty's pious intent," said the
Astrologer, "and guard your sacred person."

"Thanks, learned father. Here is something, the while, to enlarge
your curious library."

He placed under one of the volumes a small purse of gold; for,
economical even in his superstitions, Louis conceived the Astrologer
sufficiently bound to his service by the pensions he had assigned
him, and thought himself entitled to the use of his skill at a
moderate rate, even upon great exigencies.

Louis, having thus, in legal phrase, added a refreshing fee to his
general retainer, turned from him to address Durward.

"Follow me," he said, "my bonny Scot, as one chosen by Destiny and
a Monarch to accomplish a bold adventure. All must be got ready,
that thou mayest put foot in stirrup the very instant the bell of
Saint Martin's tolls twelve. One minute sooner, one minute later,
were to forfeit the favourable aspect of the constellations which
smile on your adventure."

Thus saying, the King left the apartment, followed by his young
guardsman; and no sooner were they gone than the Astrologer gave
way to very different feelings from those which seemed to animate
him during the royal presence.

"The niggardly slave!" he said, weighing the purse in his hand
-- for, being a man of unbounded expense, he had almost constant
occasion for money -- "The base, sordid scullion! A coxswain's wife
would give more to know that her husband had crossed the narrow
seas in safety. He acquire any tincture of humane letters! -- yes,
when prowling foxes and yelling wolves become musicians. He read
the glorious blazoning of the firmament! -- ay, when sordid moles
shall become lynxes. Post tot promissa -- after so many promises
made, to entice me from the Court of the magnificent Matthias, where
Hun and Turk, Christian and Infidel, the Czar of Muscovia and the
Cham of Tartary themselves, contended to load me with gifts --
doth he think I am to abide in this old castle like a bullfinch in
a cage, fain to sing as oft as he chooses to whistle, and all for
seed and water? Not so -- aut inveniam viam, aut faciam -- I will
discover or contrive a remedy. The Cardinal Balue is politic and
liberal -- this query shall to him, and it shall be his Eminence's
own fault if the stars speak not as he would have them."

He again took the despised guerdon, and weighed it in his hand.
"It may be," he said, "there is some jewel, or pearl of price,
concealed in this paltry case -- I have heard he can be liberal
even to lavishness, when it suits his caprice or interest."

He emptied the purse, which contained neither more nor less than
ten gold pieces. The indignation of the Astrologer was extreme.

"Thinks he that for such paltry rate of hire I will practise that
celestial science which I have studied with the Armenian Abbot of
Istrahoff, who had not seen the sun for forty years -- with the
Greek Dubravius, who is said to have raised the dead -- and have even
visited the Sheik Ebn Hali in his cave in the deserts of Thebais?
No, by Heaven! -- he that contemns art shall perish through his
own ignorance. Ten pieces! -- a pittance which I am half ashamed
to offer to Toinette, to buy her new breast laces."

So saying, the indignant Sage nevertheless plunged the contemned
pieces of gold into a large pouch which he wore at his girdle,
which Toinette, and other abettors of lavish expense, generally
contrived to empty fully faster than the philosopher, with all his
art, could find the means of filling.


CHAPTER XIV: THE JOURNEY

I see thee yet, fair France -- thou favour'd land
Of art and nature -- thou art still before me,
Thy sons, to whom their labour is a sport,
So well thy grateful soil returns its tribute,
Thy sunburnt daughters, with their laughing eyes
And glossy raven locks. But, favour'd France,
Thou hast had many a tale of woe to tell
In ancient times as now.

ANONYMOUS


Avoiding all conversation with any one (for such was his charge),
Quentin Durward proceeded hastily to array himself in a strong but
plain cuirass, with thigh and arm pieces, and placed on his head
a good steel cap without any visor. To these was added a handsome
cassock of chamois leather, finely dressed, and laced down the seams
with some embroidery, such as might become a superior officer in
a noble household.

These were brought to his apartment by Oliver, who, with his quiet,
insinuating smile and manner, acquainted him that his uncle had been
summoned to mount guard purposely that he might make no inquiries
concerning these mysterious movements.

"Your excuse will be made to your kinsman," said Oliver, smiling
again, "and, my dearest son, when you return safe from the execution
of this pleasing trust, I doubt not you will be found worthy of such
promotion as will dispense with your accounting for your motions
to any one, while it will place you at the head of those who must
render an account of theirs to you."

So spoke Oliver le Diable, calculating, probably, in his own mind,
the great chance there was that the poor youth whose hand he squeezed
affectionately as he spoke, must necessarily encounter death or
captivity in the commission intrusted to his charge. He added to
his fair words a small purse of gold, to defray necessary expenses
on the road, as a gratuity on the King's part.

At a few minutes before twelve at midnight, Quentin, according to
his directions, proceeded to the second courtyard, and paused under
the Dauphin's Tower, which, as the reader knows, was assigned for
the temporary residence of the Countesses of Croye. He found, at
this place of rendezvous, the men and horses appointed to compose
the retinue, leading two sumpter mules already loaded with baggage,
and holding three palfreys for the two Countesses and a faithful
waiting woman, with a stately war horse for himself, whose steel
plated saddle glanced in the pale moonlight. Not a word of recognition
was spoken on either side. The men sat still in their saddles as
if they were motionless, and by the same imperfect light Quentin
saw with pleasure that they were all armed, and held long lances
in their hands. They were only three in number, but one of them
whispered to Quentin, in a strong Gascon accent, that their guide
was to join them beyond Tours.

Meantime, lights glanced to and fro at the lattices of the tower,
as if there was bustle and preparation among its inhabitants. At
length a small door, which led from the bottom of the tower to the
court, was unclosed, and three females came forth attended by a
man wrapped in a cloak. They mounted in silence the palfreys which
stood prepared for them, while their attendant on foot led the way,
and gave the passwords and signals to the watchful guards, whose
posts they passed in succession. Thus they at length reached the
exterior of these formidable barriers. Here the man on foot, who had
hitherto acted as their guide, paused, and spoke low and earnestly
to the two foremost females.

"May heaven bless you, Sire," said a voice which thrilled upon
Quentin Durward's ear, "and forgive you, even if your purposes be
more interested than your words express! To be placed in safety
under the protection of the good Bishop of Liege, is the utmost
extent of my desire."

The person whom she thus addressed muttered an inaudible answer,
and retreated back through the barrier gate, while Quentin thought
that, by the moon glimpse, he recognized in him the King himself,
whose anxiety for the departure of his guests had probably induced
him to give his presence, in case scruples should arise on their
part, or difficulties on that of the guards of the Castle.

When the riders were beyond the Castle, it was necessary for some
time to ride with great precaution, in order to avoid the pitfalls,
snares, and similar contrivances which were placed for the annoyance
of strangers. The Gascon was, however, completely possessed of the
clew to this labyrinth, and in a quarter of an hour's riding they
found themselves beyond the limits of Plessis le Parc, and not far
distant from the city of Tours.

The moon, which had now extricated herself from the clouds through
which she was formerly wading, shed a full sea of glorious light
upon a landscape equally glorious. They saw the princely Loire
rolling his majestic tide through the richest plain in France, and
sweeping along between banks ornamented with towers and terraces,
and with olives and vineyards. They saw the walls of the city of
Tours, the ancient capital of Touraine, raising their portal towers
and embattlements white in the moonlight, while from within their
circle rose the immense Gothic mass, which the devotion of the
sainted Bishop Perpetuus erected as early as the fifth century,
and which the zeal of Charlemagne and his successors had enlarged
with such architectural splendour as rendered it the most magnificent
church in France. The towers of the church of Saint Gatien [the
cathedral of Tours] were also visible, and the gloomy strength
of the Castle, which was said to have been, in ancient times, the
residence of the Emperor Valentinian [a Roman emperor who strengthened
the northern frontiers against the barbarians].

Even the circumstances in which he was placed, though of a nature
so engrossing, did not prevent the wonder and delight with which
the young Scottishman, accustomed to the waste though impressive
landscape of his own mountains, and the poverty even of his country's
most stately scenery, looked on a scene which art and nature seemed
to have vied in adorning with their richest splendour. But he was
recalled to the business of the moment by the voice of the elder
lady (pitched at least an octave higher than those soft tones which
bade adieu to King Louis), demanding to speak with the leader of
the band. Spurring his horse forward, Quentin respectfully presented
himself to the ladies in that capacity, and thus underwent the
interrogatories of the Lady Hameline.

"What was his name, and what his degree?"

He told both.

"Was he perfectly acquainted with the road?"

"He could not," he replied, "pretend to much knowledge of the route,
but he was furnished with full instructions, and he was, at their
first resting place, to be provided with a guide, in all respects
competent to the task of directing their farther journey, meanwhile,
a horseman, who had just joined them and made the number of their
guard four, was to be their guide for the first stage."

"And wherefore were you selected for such a duty, young gentleman?"
said the lady. "I am told you are the same youth who was lately
upon guard in the gallery in which we met the Princess of France.
You seem young and inexperienced for such a charge -- a stranger,
too, in France, and speaking the language as a foreigner."

"I am bound to obey the commands of the King, madam, but am not
qualified to reason on them," answered the young soldier.

"Are you of noble birth?" demanded the same querist.

"I may safely affirm so, madam," replied Quentin.

"And are you not," said the younger lady, addressing him in her
turn, but with a timorous accent, "the same whom I saw when I was
called to wait upon the King at yonder inn?"

Lowering his voice, perhaps from similar feelings of timidity,
Quentin answered in the affirmative.

"Then methinks, my cousin," said the Lady Isabelle, addressing
the Lady Hameline, "we must be safe under this young gentleman's
safeguard, he looks not, at least, like one to whom the execution
of a plan of treacherous cruelty upon two helpless women could be
with safety intrusted."

"On my honour," said Durward, "by the fame of my house, by the
bones of my ancestry, I could not, for France and Scotland laid
into one, be guilty of treachery or cruelty towards you!"

"You speak well, young man," said the Lady Hameline, "but we are
accustomed to hear fair speeches from the King of France and his
agents. It was by these that we were induced, when the protection
of the Bishop of Liege might have been attained with less risk than
now, or when we might have thrown ourselves on that of Winceslaus
of Germany, or of Edward of England, to seek refuge in France.
And in what did the promises of the King result? In an obscure
and shameful concealing of us, under plebeian names, as a sort of
prohibited wares in yonder paltry hostelry, when we -- who, as thou
knowest, Marthon" (addressing her domestic), "never put on our head
tire save under a canopy, and upon a dais of three degrees -- were
compelled to attire ourselves, standing on the simple floor, as if
we had been two milkmaids."

Marthon admitted that her lady spoke a most melancholy truth.

"I would that had been the sorest evil, dear kinswoman," said the
Lady Isabelle, "I could gladly have dispensed with state."

"But not with society," said the elder Countess, "that, my sweet
cousin, was impossible."

"I would have dispensed with all, my dearest kinswoman," answered
Isabelle, in a voice which penetrated to the very heart of her
young conductor and guard, "with all, for a safe and honourable
retirement. I wish not -- God knows, I never wished -- to occasion
war betwixt France and my native Burgundy, or that lives should
be lost for such as I am. I only implored permission to retire to
the Convent of Marmoutier, or to any other holy sanctuary."

"You spoke then like a fool, my cousin," answered the elder lady,
"and not like a daughter of my noble brother. It is well there
is still one alive who hath some of the spirit of the noble House
of Croye. How should a high born lady be known from a sunburnt
milkmaid, save that spears are broken for the one, and only hazel
poles shattered for the other? I tell you, maiden, that while I
was in the very earliest bloom, scarcely older than yourself, the
famous Passage of Arms at Haflinghem was held in my honour, the
challengers were four, the assailants so many as twelve. It lasted
three days, and cost the lives of two adventurous knights, the
fracture of one backbone, one collarbone, three legs, and two arms,
besides flesh wounds and bruises beyond the heralds' counting, and
thus have the ladies of our House ever been honoured. Ah! had you
but half the heart of your noble ancestry, you would find means at
some court where ladies' love and fame in arms are still prized,
to maintain a tournament at which your hand should be the prize, as
was that of your great grandmother of blessed memory, at the spear
running of Strasbourg, and thus should you gain the best lance in
Europe, to maintain the rights of the House of Croye, both against
the oppression of Burgundy and the policy of France."

"But, fair kinswoman," answered the younger Countess, "I have
been told by my old nurse, that although the Rhinegrave [formerly
a Rhenish prince] was the best lance at the great tournament at
Strasbourg, and so won the hand of my respected ancestor, yet the
match was no happy one, as he used often to scold, and sometimes
even to beat, my great grandmother of blessed memory."

"And wherefore not?" said the elder Countess, in her romantic enthusiasm
for the profession of chivalry, "why should those victorious arms,
accustomed to deal blows when abroad, be bound to restrain their
energies at home? A thousand times rather would I be beaten twice
a day by a husband whose arm was as much feared by others as by
me, than be the wife of a coward, who dared neither to lift hand
to his wife, nor to any one else!"

"I should wish you joy of such an active mate, fair aunt," replied
Isabelle, "without envying you, for if broken bones be lovely in
tourneys, there is nothing less amiable in ladies' bower."

"Nay, but the beating is no necessary consequence of wedding with
a knight of fame in arms," said the Lady Hameline, "though it is
true that your ancestor of blessed memory, the Rhinegrave Gottfried,
was something rough tempered, and addicted to the use of Rheinwein.

"The very perfect knight is a lamb among ladies, and a lion among
lances. A thing I liked about Albeury was that he made up his mind
almost instantly--that he never hesitated a moment.

"All the same, Mr. Osborne," he added quickly, "you must pardon my
saying that I consider you barely sane. It's no business of
mine, I know, but do for God's sake think what you are doing
before you bind yourself for life to such a woman--think of it, _for
life!_"
"That's all right," Jack answered quietly.

"Don't distress yourself. I know exactly what I am doing, and--"
He paused, looking hard at Albeury.

"From now onward," he said slowly, "Jasmine Gastrell will be a wholly
different woman. I am going away with her at once, Albeury; to-morrow,
at latest--we may even leave to-night. We shall not return to England
for a year--that I promise you.

For a year I shall see neither Berrington nor you nor any of my
friends. But in a year's time you and Berrington and I, and Jasmine
too, will meet again, and then--"
The telephone in the flat rang loudly. Albeury sprang up. An
instant later he was in the hall, preventing Simon from answering
the call.

Quickly he returned, while the bell continued ringing.

"What's your code--Morse?" he said sharply to the men.
"No--secret," the elder man answered.
"Quick, then--go; if it's not for you, say so."
Carefully the man Albeury had cross-questioned unhooked the receiver.
He held it to his ear, and an instant later nodded. Then, with the
pencil which hung down by a string, he tapped the transmitter five
times, with measured beat.When you and others, Seignior Archer,
go by the bow, I always go by the cord."

The moon had by this time long been down, and the lights of dawn
were beginning to spread bright and strong in the east, and to gleam
on the bosom of a small lake, on the verge of which they had been
riding for a short space of time. This lake lay in the midst of a
wide plain, scattered over with single trees, groves and thickets,
but which might be yet termed open, so that objects began to be
discerned with sufficient accuracy. Quentin cast his eye on the
person whom he rode beside, and under the shadow of a slouched
overspreading hat, which resembled the sombrero of a Spanish peasant,
he recognised the facetious features of the same Petit Andre whose
fingers, not long since, had, in concert with those of his lugubrious
brother, Trois Eschelles, been so unpleasantly active about his
throat. -- Impelled by aversion, not altogether unmixed with fear
(for in his own country the executioner is regarded with almost
superstitious horror), which his late narrow escape had not
diminished, Durward instinctively moved his horse's head to the
right, and pressing him at the same time with the spur, made a
demi-volte, which separated him eight feet from his hateful companion.

"Ho, ho, ho, ho!" exclaimed Petit Andre, "by Our Lady of the Grave,
our young soldier remembers us of old. What! comrade, you bear no
malice, I trust? -- every one wins his bread in this country. No
man need be ashamed of having come through my hands, for I will do
my work with any that ever tied a living weight to a dead tree. --
And God hath given me grace to be such a merry fellow withal. --
Ha! ha! ha! -- I could tell you such jests I have cracked between
the foot of a ladder and the top of the gallows, that, by my
halidome, I have been obliged to do my job rather hastily, for fear
the fellows should die with laughing, and so shame my mystery!"

As he thus spoke he edged his horse sideways to regain the interval
which the Scot had left between them, saying, at the same time,
"Come, Seignior Archer, let there be no unkindness betwixt us! --
For my part, I always do my duty without malice, and with a light
heart, and I never love a man better than when I have put my scant
of wind collar about his neck, to dub him Knight of the order of
Saint Patibularius [patibulum, a gibbet], as the Provost's Chaplain,
the worthy Father Vaconeldiablo [possibly Baco (Bacchus) el Diablo
(the Devil)], is wont to call the Patron Saint of the Provostry."

"Keep back, thou wretched object!" exclaimed Quentin, as the finisher
of the law again sought to approach him closer, "or I shall be
tempted to teach you the distance that should be betwixt men of
honour and such an outcast."

"La you there, how hot you are!" said the fellow, "had you said
men of honesty, there had been some savour of truth in it, but for
men of honour, good lack, I have to deal with them every day, as
nearly and closely as I was about to do business with you. -- But
peace be with you, and keep your company to yourself. I would have
bestowed a flagon of Auvernat upon you to wash away every unkindness
-- -- but 't is like you scorn my courtesy. -- Well. Be as churlish
as you list -- I never quarrel with my customers -- my jerry come
tumbles, my merry dancers, my little playfellows, as Jacques Butcher
says to his lambs -- those in fine, who, like your seigniorship,
have H. E. M. P. written on their foreheads. -- No, no, let them
use me as they list, they shall have my good service at last -- and
yourself shall see, when you next come under Petit Andre's hands,
that he knows how to forgive an injury."

So saying, and summing up the whole with a provoking wink, and such
an interjectional tchick as men quicken a dull horse with, Petit
Andre drew off to the other side of the path, and left the youth
to digest the taunts he had treated him with, as his proud Scottish
stomach best might. A strong desire had Quentin to have belaboured
him while the staff of his lance could hold together, but he put
a restraint on his passion, recollecting that a brawl with such
a character could be creditable at no time or place, and that a
quarrel of any kind, on the present occasion, would be a breach of
duty, and might involve the most perilous consequences. He therefore
swallowed his wrath at the ill timed and professional jokes of Mons.
Petit Andre, and contented himself with devoutly hoping that they
had not reached the ears of his fair charge, on which they could
not be supposed to make an impression in favour of himself, as one
obnoxious to such sarcasms. But he was speedily roused from such
thoughts by the cry of both the ladies at once, to "Look back --
look back! -- For the love of Heaven look yourself, and us -- we
are pursued!"

Quentin hastily looked back, and saw that two armed men were in
fact following them, and riding at such a pace as must soon bring
them up with their party. "It can," he said, "be only some of the
Provostry making their rounds in the forest. -- Do thou look," he
said to Petit Andre, "and see what they may be."

Petit Andre obeyed, and rolling himself jocosely in the saddle
after he had made his observations, replied, "These, fair sir, are
neither your comrades nor mine -- neither Archers nor Marshals men
-- for I think they wear helmets, with visors lowered, and gorgets
of the same. -- A plague upon these gorgets of all other pieces
of armour! -- I have fumbled with them an hour before I could undo
the rivets."

"Do you, gracious ladies," said Durward, without attending to
Petit Andre, "ride forward -- not so fast as to raise an opinion
of your being in flight, and yet fast enough to avail yourself of
the impediment which I shall presently place between you and these
men who follow us."

The Countess Isabelle looked to their guide, and then whispered to
her aunt, who spoke to Quentin thus: "We have confidence in your
care, fair Archer, and will rather abide the risk of whatever may
chance in your company, than we will go onward with that man, whose
mien is, we think, of no good augury."

"Be it as you will, ladies," said the youth. "There are but two
who come after us, and though they be knights, as their arms seem
to show, they shall, if they have any evil purpose, learn how a
Scottish gentleman can do his devour in the presence and for the
defence of such as you.

"Which of you," he continued, addressing the guards whom he
commanded, "is willing to be my comrade, and to break a lance with
these gallants?"

Two of the men obviously faltered in resolution, but the third,
Bertrand Guyot, swore that cap de diou, were they Knights of King
Arthur's Round Table, he would try their mettle, for the honour of
Gascony.

While he spoke, the two knights -- for they seemed of no less rank
-- came up with the rear of the party, in which Quentin, with his
sturdy adherent, had by this time stationed himself. They were
fully accoutred in excellent armour of polished steel, without any
device by which they could be distinguished.

One of them, as they approached, called out to Quentin, "Sir Squire,
give place -- we come to relieve you of a charge which is above
your rank and condition. You will do well to leave these ladies in
our care, who are fitter to wait upon them, especially as we know
that in yours they are little better than captives."

"In return to your demand, sirs," replied Durward, "know, in the
first place, that I am discharging the duty imposed upon me by my
present sovereign, and next, that however unworthy I may be, the
ladies desire to abide under my protection."

"Out, sirrah!" exclaimed one of the champions, "will you, a wandering
beggar, put yourself on terms of resistance against belted knights?"

"They are indeed terms of resistance," said Quentin, "since they oppose
your insolent and unlawful aggression, and if there be difference
of rank between us, which as yet I know not, your discourtesy has
done it away. Draw your sword, or if you will use the lance, take
ground for your career."

While the knights turned their horses, and rode back to the distance
of about a hundred and fifty yards, Quentin, looking to the ladies,
bent low on his saddlebow, as if desiring their favourable regard,
and as they streamed towards him their kerchiefs, in token of
encouragement, the two assailants had gained the distance necessary
for their charge.

Calling to the Gascon to bear himself like a man, Durward put his
steed into motion, and the four horsemen met in full career in the
midst of the ground which at first separated them. The shock was
fatal to the poor Gascon, for his adversary, aiming at his face,
which was undefended by a visor, ran him through the eye into the
brain, so that he fell dead from his horse.

On the other hand, Quentin, though labouring under the same
disadvantage, swayed himself in the saddle so dexterously, that
the hostile lance, slightly scratching his cheek, passed over his
right shoulder, while his own spear, striking his antagonist fair
upon the breast, hurled him to the ground. Quentin jumped off, to
unhelm his fallen opponent, but the other knight (who had never
yet spoken), seeing the fortune of his companion, dismounted still
more speedily than Durward, and bestriding his friend, who lay
senseless, exclaimed, "In the name of God and Saint Martin, mount,
good fellow, and get thee gone with thy woman's ware -- Ventre
Saint Gris, they have caused mischief enough this morning."

"By your leave, Sir Knight," said Quentin, who could not brook the
menacing tone in which this advice was given, "I will first see whom
I have had to do with, and learn who is to answer for the death of
my comrade."

"That shalt thou never live to know or to tell," answered the
knight. "Get thee back in peace, good fellow. If we were fools for
interrupting your passage, we have had the worst, for thou hast done
more evil than the lives of thee and thy whole hand could repay.
-- Nay, if thou wilt have it" (for Quentin now drew his sword, and
advanced on him), "take it with a vengeance!"

So saying, he dealt the Scot such a blow on the helmet, as, till
that moment (though bred where good blows were plenty), he had only
read of in romance. It descended like a thunderbolt, beating down
the guard which the young soldier had raised to protect his head,
and, reaching his helmet of proof, cut it through so far as to
touch his hair, but without farther injury while Durward, dizzy,
stunned, and beaten down on one knee, was for an instant at the
mercy of the knight, had it pleased him to second his blow. But
compassion for Quentin's youth, or admiration of his courage, or
a generous love of fair play, made him withhold from taking such
advantage: while Durward, collecting himself, sprang up and attacked
his antagonist with the energy of one determined to conquer or
die, and at the same time with the presence of mind necessary for
fighting the quarrel out to the best advantage. Resolved not again
to expose himself to such dreadful blows as he had just obtained,
he employed the advantage of superior agility, increased by the
comparative lightness of his armour, to harass his antagonist by
traversing on all sides, with a suddenness of motion and rapidity
of attack against which the knight -- in his heavy panoply -- found
it difficult to defend himself without much fatigue.

It was in vain that this generous antagonist called aloud to Quentin
that there now remained no cause of fight betwixt them, and that
he was loath to be constrained to do him injury. Listening only
to the suggestions of a passionate wish to redeem the shame of his
temporary defeat, Durward continued to assail him with the rapidity
of lightning -- now menacing him with the edge, now with the point
of his sword, and ever keeping such an eye on the motions of his
opponent, of whose superior strength he had had terrible proof, that
he was ready to spring backward, or aside, from under the blows of
his tremendous weapon.

"Now the devil be with thee for an obstinate and presumptuous fool,"
muttered the knight, "that cannot be quiet till thou art knocked
on the head!"

So saying, he changed his mode of fighting, collected himself, as
if to stand on the defensive, and seemed contented with parrying,
instead of returning, the blows which Quentin unceasingly aimed
at him, with the internal resolution that the instant when either
loss of breath or any false or careless pass of the young soldier
should give an opening, he would put an end to the fight by a single
blow. It is likely he might have succeeded in this artful policy,
but Fate had ordered it otherwise.

The duel was still at the hottest, when a large party of horse rode
up, crying, "Hold, in the King's name!"

Both champions stepped back -- and Quentin saw, with surprise,
that his Captain, Lord Crawford, was at the head of the party who
had thus interrupted their combat. There was also Tristan l'Hermite,
with two or three of his followers, making, in all, perhaps twenty
horse.


CHAPTER XV: THE GUIDE

He was a son of Egypt, as he told me,
And one descended from those dread magicians,
Who waged rash war, when Israel dwelt in Goshen,
With Israel and her Prophet -- matching rod
With his, the son's of Levi's -- and encountering
Jehovah's miracles with incantations,
Till upon Egypt came the avenging Angel,
And those proud sages wept for their first born,
As wept the unletter'd peasant.

Osborne.

The widow was not at 'The Book' when we arrived--we knew she wouldn't
be, and, of course, you know where she was, she was at the house in
Hampstead where you found Miss Challoner when you called there this
morning; she arrived home about two o'clock, however, and while
'Baron Poppenheimer' was making himself agreeable to her--your
friend Mr.

Osborne is a most splendid actor, and ought to have been in the
detective force--I was making headway with her chauffeur out in
the garage. Yes, Mr.It will
ruin the gallant with the King, for ever and a day."

"Ask no questions," said Dunois -- for it was no other than he
-- "it was all my fault. See, he stirs. I came forth but to have
a snatch at yonder damsel, and make myself a landed and a married
man -- and see what is come on 't. Keep back your canaille -- let
no man look upon him."

So saying, he opened the visor of Orleans, and threw water on his
face, which was afforded by the neighbouring lake.

Quentin Durward, meanwhile, stood like one planet struck [affected
by the supposed influence of the planets], so fast did new adventures
pour in upon him. He had now, as the pale features of his first
antagonist assured him, borne to the earth the first Prince of the
Blood in France, and had measured swords with her best champion,
the celebrated Dunois, -- both of them achievements honourable in
themselves: but whether they might be called good service to the
King, or so esteemed by him, was a very different question.

The Duke had now recovered his breath, and was able to sit up and
give attention to what passed betwixt Dunois and Crawford, while
the former pleaded eagerly that there was no occasion to mention in
the matter the name of the most noble Orleans, while he was ready
to take the whole blame on his own shoulders, and to avouch that
the Duke had only come thither in friendship to him.

Lord Crawford continued listening with his eves fixed on the ground,
and from time to time he sighed and shook his head. At length he
said, looking up, "Thou knowest, Dunois, that, for thy father's
sake, as well as thine own, I would full fain do thee a service."

