Produced by David Widger


THE STORY OF THE LITTLE MAMSELL

By Charlotte Niese

Translated from the German by Miss E. C. Emerson


"Have you got something good? Then put the basket down and go along
home!" This was one usual greeting from old Mahlmann when we brought
him provisions. He was very old, and rarely out of his bed, only now and
then on warm summer days he sat on the bench before his tiny cottage and
basked in the sun. If a painter had ever strayed to our uninteresting
little town he would certainly have put old Mahlmann's characteristic
head on his canvas. He had a clever old face with a firm mouth and
glittering eyes whose expression was so sombre and at the same time
observant that we children imagined old Mahlmann was different from
other people. And indeed so he was. To begin with he never thanked
anyone for bringing him food; in fact he criticized freely the benefits
he received. If one brought what was not to his liking, he would say:
"Go home and tell your mother old Mahlmann is not a waste-tub where you
throw what's not fit to eat. You needn't come again either!"

In this manner he got himself into disfavor with many a good housewife,
who would protest by all that was holy that never would she send the
hoary old sinner anything again. But Mahlmann never cared. His needs
were few and there was always some one to satisfy them.

For me the old man with the sombre eyes had a peculiar fascination; I
think from the fact that he once told me a wonderful ghost-story. There
were at least half a dozen witches and a whole dozen ghosts in this
tale, and for many nights after I went to bed in tears, and only on
condition some one sat with me till I fell asleep. Still the spell of
these horrors was so strong upon me that I visited Mahlmann all the
more» and often bought him something out of my own slender pocket-money
to induce him to tell stories. I was not always successful, for the old
man had morose moods, when he spoke little. At other times he would tell
us his own experiences, and his life had not lacked variety. McCURDY'S
amendment. I ask for information. I do not quite see how that amendment
can be informally passed over without at the same time passing the
consideration of the whole article.

The PRESIDENT:--It was passed by universal consent.

Mr.

CHASE:--As I understand it, the gentleman from Illinois made the motion
that the vote be reconsidered, and the consideration of the amendment
passed for the present, and this was agreed to by the Conference
unanimously.

The motion of Mr. BROWNE to lay the motion of Mr.

HITCHCOCK on the table, was agreed to without a division.

Mr. BALDWIN:--I move to strike out these words in the third section:
"Nor shall Congress have power to authorize any higher rate of
taxation on persons bound to labor than on land." I have already stated
that I think this language singularly inappropriate to a provision
of the Constitution. The Constitution already prohibits such distinctions
in the laying of taxes, and, therefore, there is no necessity for the
adoption of this clause. But I have another and more important
objection to it; it contains and proposes to place in the Constitution
the distinct recognition of the right of property in slaves. This
recognition was carefully avoided in the Convention which framed the
Constitution, and the North always has been, and always will be,
opposed to any such recognition. Place it there, and your article will
never be adopted in any of the free States.

Mr. WICKLIFFE:--The first statutes passed by Congress on this subject
recognized the right to tax slaves. This implied the right to hold slaves.
This recognition of the right of taxation was made in express terms. The
gentleman has forgotten the history of the legislation on this
subject.

The object of the committee is to prevent any possibility that those who
come after us should make any distinction between these classes of
property in levying taxes. We do not seek a recognition of the right
of property in slaves in this; that right is already recognized to our
satisfaction in the Constitution.

Mr. TUCK:--I understand the gentleman from Kentucky, and I think he is
right. If we adopt the article at all we ought to retain this language.

The vote was taken by States on the amendment proposed by Mr. BALDWIN,
with the following result:

AYES.

--Maine, Massachusetts, and Connecticut--3.

NOES.--New Hampshire, Vermont, New York, Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Iowa,
Kansas, Rhode Island, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland,
Virginia, North Carolina, Tennessee, Kentucky, and Missouri--18.

Mr. PRATT dissented from the vote of Connecticut.

Messrs. NOYES and SMITH also dissented from the vote of New York.

Mr. FOWLER:--I move to strike out the words "without the consent of
Maryland," immediately following the words "service in the District of
Columbia."
I can see no necessity for requiring the consent of Maryland to the
abolition of slavery in the District. There is no more reason for it
than for requiring the consent of Maine, or any other State. By the cession
of the District to the United States Maryland has parted with all power
over it, and the exclusive power of legislation is given to Congress.
The District has become the common property of the Union as much as
any of the Territories, and ought to be controlled in the same
way.

Mr. CRISFIELD:--I hope this amendment will not prevail. The District
is almost surrounded by the Territory of Maryland. The abolition of
slavery in it would be very destructive to our interests and
property.
To convert the District into free territory would offer a direct
invitation to our slaves to abscond and go into the District. Even
if the rendition clause of the Constitution was faithfully observed
and carried out, it would involve us in much expense and difficulty.
If we are required to maintain faith with the Government, the
Government must keep faith with us.
Mr. FOWLER:--I did not suppose my motion would meet with such serious
objections. If they exist I will withdraw it.
Mr. BATES:--I have an amendment to propose, which I think will
improve the language of the section, and make it more consonant
with that used in the Constitution. I move to amend the third section
by striking out the word "bound" wherever it occurs therein, and
inserting in its place the word "held;" also to insert after the
words "to labor" wherever they occur, the words "or service."
The amendments proposed by Mr. BATES were adopted without a
division.
Mr. CARRUTHERS:--I propose to amend the section as it stands after
the adoption of the amendments of Mr. BATES, by inserting between
the words "or" and "service" where they occur in that connection,
the word "involuntary."
Mr. EWING:--I had rather leave out the word "involuntary;" it would
look better.Mahlmann was silent for a moment and wrapped himself with a shiver in
his red coat.

"Dear me! how cold it always is now; it used to be warm in July. Things
never turn out as one expects. The little Mamseli had promised me
faithfully I should have my good clothes back--yes, indeed--bless you!
But I must say she looked downright pretty in my best black suit, and I
saw why she hadn't worn clothes of the Baron's, or of her own father's.
He was short and fat, and the Baron was tall and broad-shouldered,
and the little one would not have looked well in their things. Now she
looked like a real boy, and like two boys we ran to one of the many
prisons where the aristocrats were, I With a basket and she with a
basket, with bread and writing-paper, and we took them to the wife
of one of the gaolers who earned a lot of money by selling them. The
aristocrats were always writing letters, which shows what do-nothings
they were; for an honest man has a tongue to talk with, and doesn't need
to make marks on paper to kill time. We went to the great prison two or
three times; I stayed outside because I was afraid, but Mamseli Manon
went in and talked with the gaolers. What more she did I don't know;
I waited outside and thought of my confirmation suit, for the little
Mamseli wasn't very careful of it. She had had it three days and took
it home with her, and I never knew where it was when she was in the shop
with her ordinary clothes on. It was always dark when we went out, then
she'd come for me and we'd start* I must say she always brought me some*
thing, a drop of wine or a bit of cake. The evening of the fourth day
when I was waiting for her at the gate of the prison, someone seized
hold of my shoulder and said in German, 'Forward!' It was my Baron who
stood before me all at once and was in a devil of a hurry to get away.
'Franz!' he said to me, 'be quick or I am lost!' 'Where is the little
Mamsell?' I asked, 'and where is my confirmation suit?' Then he grabbed
me by the arm and dragged me through the streets till I was out of
breath. 'She will come,' he said half to himself, 'to-morrow the mistake
will be cleared up, when I am out of the city. Her father will save
her.' But though he was still pulling me along, I stopped short. 'Herr
Baron,' I said, 'the little Mamsell has got on my best black suit, and
the trousers were made out of the Herr Pastor's own, and I tell you if
I don't get my suit that I was confirmed in, I'll go to the gentlemen
of the head-chopping company and tell them you've broken out of prison,
which they certainly won't like. For by rights all the aristocrats ought
to go to the "Gartine," or whatever you call it, so that we can have
"égalité" and liberty, and we poor fellows can amuse ourselves instead
of having all the good times used up by the great gentlemen!' Then he
looked at me as if he would like to kill me, but he couldn't do that,
so he tried to talk me round with promises. Dear me! what didn't the man
promise me! A bag full of money, and a pig every year, and every year a
black suit, if I would only go quietly home with him. And he put on my
finger on the spot a ring with a red stone that I had always fancied,
so I went along quietly with him to his apartment that I had the key of.
The Baron slept in my attic room, and I had to lie on the sofa in his
best room to look as if I was trying to play the gentleman. The next day
the Baron went out twice in a blue blouse with a cap on his head, and
the second morning we both went on foot out of the city, in clothes that
I wouldn't have liked to touch with a pair of tongs!"

Mahlmann stopped and rubbed his left knee. "What rheumatism I do have!
And in the month of July! Well, well, it's always the way when you begin
to get old; I suppose I must be about ninety. My grandfather's aunt,
though, was more than a hundred and only died then from eating too much
at a pig-killing!" He sighed and nodded. "We've all got to be put under
ground some day, but it's queer just the same what a difference there is
about dying. I'm old now, and that time when I went through Paris in
the early morning with a rag-bag on my back, and my Baron with just such
another one, was the first time in my life that I ever thought of death,
and it isn't a thought for a boy. It was because the carts were passing
us with the aristocrats who were going to have their heads chopped off.
I'd seen those old carts often enough and naturally thought nothing of
it, because it was a good thing that the fine Monsieurs and Madames were
got rid off; but this time it startled me, for the little Mamsell was in
one of the ramshackle old wagons too. And the strangest of all was she
still had on my confirmation suit that made her look like a pretty boy.
She had folded her hands and looked as if she was going to communion.
There weren't many people in the street,' it was so early, and I was
just about to open my mouth and cry out that Mamsell had on my black
suit and I wanted her to give it back, when my Baron clapped his hand
over my mouth and I nearly choked. 'Donner-wetter' how he gripped me!
But only a minute, for suddenly his strength gave out and he stood
stock-still and began to tremble. He had looked at Manon and she at him.
Such a smile came over her face and she bowed her head, and then the
cart drove quickly on. My master stood in one spot for as much as a
quarter of an hour, and big tears rolled down his cheeks. Mr. DENT:--Maryland
and Virginia originally joined in the cession of the District to
the United States. Afterwards that portion which came from her was
re-ceded to Virginia. But this question is not one of territory alone.
The policy and interest of the two States are intimately connected. It
would be far more satisfactory to both these States, and to the South,
if the assent of Virginia was required before Congress could abolish
slavery in the District. Still Maryland does not insist upon it.

And by this time she's certainly in heaven,
and that's a very good place they say!'

"I talked like this to my Baron, till he began to walk, and went faster
and faster, out through the city gates, and never looked back for me
till we came to some houses where English lived in a village a few miles
from Paris, where the French didn't make such a time as in the city
itself. The English were going back to their own country, as all this
was rather uncomfortable, and we traveled with them by slow stages to
the coast, and then in a small boat to England, where they eat their
beef too red for my taste; In other ways they live well enough, and I
would have had nothing to complain of if my Baron had been a little more
cheerful. Why should you undertake to interfere with the policy of a
neighboring State concerning a people about which you know nothing? We
feel, we know that we have done that race no wrong. Deep into the
Southern heart has this feeling penetrated.The old man looked thoughtfully toward the setting sun. "When I thought
over the whole affair I felt dreadfully sorry about little Mam-sell. 
MADISON], whose expositions of that instrument all classes, all parties,
have heretofore received, and still receive, or pretend to receive,
with profound deference and respect, has left on record his views of
the injustice, impracticability, and inefficacy of force as a means of
coercing States into obedience to Federal authority.

Among the statesmen of the Revolution--those who participated in the
formation of our Government--there was no one who had such exalted
notions of the power and dignity of the Federal Government, as the
great HAMILTON. He was a consolidationist. The advocates of coercion
might naturally expect to obtain "aid and comfort" from the recorded
declarations of one of his peculiar political faith.But it's always so, there's no 'égalité'
in this country, and if we don't have a good revolution it will never be
any different. Though it doesn't always turn out well for everyone even
then, The French grocer who did such a good business with the King's
wine was one of those who could never get enough aristocrats killed; and
finally his own flesh and blood went to her death for the sake of one of
them. If misfortune is bound to come there's no getting out of it, and
it came to me the time they said I belonged to that band of thieves
there was such a talk about. I defended myself well, but all the same I
was put in gaol in Gluckstadt, and there's no knowing how long I might
have stayed there if it hadn't been for a lucky chance that brought the
Danish king to see the prison, along with a lot of fine gentlemen.
All of us convicts had to stand in rank and file while old Friedrich
inspected us. And who should be behind the King but my Baron, with white
hair and bent back, and a great star on his breast. They were going
slowly past us, when I coughed, and he started and came close to me. 'Do
I not know you?' he said, and I laughed a little. 'Herr Baron, do you
remember the story of my best black suit?' He looked rather queer and
drew his hand across his forehead as if he were wiping something off,
and passed on. Some of them have interests which are superior to those
of their country.

In the common affairs of life there are always a great many differences
of opinion. Some treat these differences one way--some another. Foolish
men go to law, and always come out worse off than when they started.
Sensible men get together, and talk matters over; one gives up a little,
the other gives up a little, and finally they get together. Now,
friends, that is just what I want to see done here.I went to see him and he sent me ten thalers, and his
servant told me he had great trouble with his sons. He is long dead,
which is a pity, for he often sent me something. Everything comes to
an end, everything. In the morning when I lie in bed and can't sleep,
I often think of little Manon who died in my black suit in the midst
of the aristocrats, where she didn't belong, and my black suit didn't
belong there either. Things never turn out as one expects, never!"