"Now we are even," said Henri, laughing; "but really, without joking,
I feel confident that the white flag is floating at this moment on the
castle at Nantes; but it is not of that, Charles, that I wish to speak
now. You have always been an elder brother to me. We have always been
like brothers, have we not?"

"Thank God, we have, Henri! and I do not think it likely that we shall
ever be more distant to each other."

"No, that I'm sure we never shall. You are too good either to quarrel
yourself, or to let me quarrel with you; but though we never can be more
distant, we may yet be more near to each other. You know what I mean,
Charles?"

"I believe I do," said de Lescure; "but why do you not speak out? You
are not likely, I think, to say or to propose anything that we shall not
approve of--that is, Victorine and I."

"God bless you both!" said Henri. "You are too kind to me; but can you
consent to give me your own dear favourite sister--your sweet Marie? You
know what I mean in saying that I would be nearer to you."

De Lescure was in the act of answering his cousin, when. the quick fall
of a horse's foot was heard in the avenue close to the house, and then
there was a sudden pause as the brute was pulled up violently in the
yard of the château, and the eager voices of domestics answering the
rapid questions of the man who had alighted.

Interested as the two friends were in their conversation, the times were
too full of important matters to allow of their remaining quiet, after
having heard such tokens of a hurried messenger. Larochejaqnelin ran off
to the yard of the château, and de Lescure followed him as quickly as
his wounded arm would allow.

Henri had hardly got off the lawn, when he met a couple of servants
coming from the yard, and between them a man booted, spurred, and armed,
covered with dust and spattered with fuam, whom he at once recognized
as Foret, the friend and townsman of Cathelineau.

"What news, Foret, what news?" said Henri, rushing up to him, and
seizing him by the hand. "Pray God you bring with you good tidings."

"The worst news that ever weighed heavy on a poor man's tongue, M.
Henri," said Foret, sorrowfully.

"Cathelineau is not dead?" said Henri, but the tone of his inquiry
shewed plainly how much he feared what the reply would be.

"He was not dead," answered Foret, "when I left him five leagues on this
side Nantes, but he had not many days to live."

The two had turned back over the lawn, and now met de Lescure, as he
hastened to join them.

"Cathelineau," said Henri, "is mortally wounded! Victory will have been
bought too dear at such a price; but I know not yet even whether the
Vendeans have been victorious."

Hardships.
Steuben's Arrival and Drill.

Battle of Monmouth.

CHAPTER V. THE NORTHERN CAMPAIGN
On to Canada.
Ethan Allen takes "Old Ti." Montgomery's Advance.
Benedict Arnold's.
They attack Quebec.

Montgomery Falls.

Morgan in the Lower Town.
The Siege Raised.
Retreat.
Burgoyne's Advance.
The British Plan.
Ticonderoga again in British Hands.
On to Fort Edward.
St. Leger's Expedition.
Battle of Oriskany.
St. Leger Driven Back.
Baume's Expedition.

Battle of Bennington.
Stark.
Burgoyne in a Cul-de-sac.
Gates Succeeds Schuyler.

First Battle of Bemis's Heights or Stillwater.
Burgoyne's Position Critical.
No Tidings from Clinton.
Second Battle.
Arnold the Hero.
The Briton Retreats.

Capitulates.
Little Thanks to Gates, Importance of Burgoyne's Surrender.

CHAPTER VI. THE SOUTHERN CAMPAIGNS
Massacres of Wyoming and Cherry Valley.

Battle of Rhode Island.
Raids.
Wayne takes Stony Point.
Paul Jones and his Naval Victory.
The War in the South.
Lincoln Surrenders.
All South Carolina Gone.
Clinton's Severity.
Bravely withstood by Southern Leaders and People.
Washington Sends Aid.
Gates and De Kalb.
Battle of Camden.
Exit Gates.
De Kalb's Valor and Death.
Arnold's Treason.
The South Prostrate.
Colonial Victory of King's Mountain.
General Greene to the South.
His History.
His Plan.
Morgan Beats Carleton at Cowpens.
Cornwallis Sweeps Northward.
Greene's Skilful Retreat.
Battle of Guilford Court-House.
Cornwallis to Virginia.
The Carolinas and Georgia Recovered.

Washington to Yorktown.

French Aid.
Cornwallis Surrenders.
Effects.

CHAPTER VII. PEACE 
Peace Sentiment in England.
Reasons.
Ill Conduct of the War.
Expense.
Vain Concession.
France Aids America.
Spain too.
Lord North Wavers.
Holland Joins the Colonies.
Cornwallis's Surrender.
Franklin in France.
Influence and Skill.
Joy.
Negotiations for a Treaty of Peace.
The Treaty Signed.
Its Provisions.
Peace a Benediction.
Cessation of Hostilities.
Redcoats Depart.
New York Evacuated.
Washington's Adieu to the Army.
Resigns his Commission.
Revisits Mount Vernon.
CHAPTER VIII. AMERICAN MANHOOD IN THE REVOLUTION
Character of Revolutionary Soldiers.
Causes.
Physical Basis and Previous Training.
Bunker Hill.
Moultrie.
Marylanders at Long Island.
At Monmouth.
Nathan Hale.
Andre.
Paul Jones and his Exploit.
Ethan Allen.
Prescott.
"Old Put." Richard Montgomery.
General Greene.
Stark.
Dan Morgan.
Other Generals.
Colonel Washington.
De Kalb.
Robert Morris, Financier.
Franklin, Diplomatist.
Washington.
Military Ability.
Mental and Moral Characteristics.
Honesty.
Modesty.
Encomia upon Him.

CHAPTER IX. THE OLD CONFEDERATION
The Revolutionary Congress.
The Articles of Confederation.
Synopsis.
Congress.
Its Powers.
Advantages of the Confederation.
Critical State of Affairs after the War.
State Sovereignty.
Antagonized by Existence of the Articles.
Faults of the Confederation.
No Power over Individuals.
Treaties.
Taxation.
War Debt.
Mutinous Spirit in Army.
Washington's Steadfastness.
Congress Menaced.
Discord of Commercial Laws.
England's Hostile Attitude.
Needed Amendments to the Articles.
Lack of a Central Power.
Northwest Territory.
Ordinance of 1787.
Its Excellence.
The Ohio Company.
Settlement at Marietta.
CHAPTER X. RISE OF THE NEW CONSTITUTION
Anarchy after the Revolution.
Shays' Rebellion.
Washington's Influence.
Continental Sects.
Hamilton's Motion for a Stronger Government.
Massachusetts's Motion.
Forwardness of Virginia.
Of Madison.
Origin of Annapolis Convention, 1786.
Its Action.
Meeting of the Constitutional Convention, 1787.
The Virginia Plan.
New Jersey Plan.
Growth of the Constitution.
Personnel of the Convention.
Its Distinguished Men.
Subsequent Careers of Many.
Rutledge.
Rufus King.
Completion of the Constitution.
Ratification.
Struggle in Massachusetts.
In Virginia.
In New York.
In North Carolina.
In Rhode Island.
"More Perfect Union" at Last.

Part Second
THE UNITED STATES UNDER THE CONSTITUTION 
PERIOD I
THE UNITED STATES AND THE FRENCH REVOLUTION 
1789-1814
CHAPTER I. THE NEW GOVERNMENT 
Launching the Constitution.
Washington's First Inauguration.
Distribution of our Population in 1790.
In the States.
Cities.
New York City.
Difference between the Old Government and the New.
Status of the State.
Benefits of the New Order.
Popularity of the Constitution.
Thoroughness of First Congress.
Origin of Post-office Department.
Treasury.
Revenue and Monetary System.
Judiciary.
Secretary of War.
Leaders in First Congress.
CHAPTER II. FEDERALISM AND ANTI--FEDERALISM
Origin and Development of the Two Terms.
Policy of Federalism.
Federalists Aristocratic.
Two Stripes of Federalists.
Policy of the Anti-federalists.
Close and Liberal Constructionists.
Argument of the Federalists on Article 1., Section 8.Our hearts were nearly broken, and our arms were
weak; it ended in our retreating to Pirmil, and leaving the town in the
hands of the republicans."

"How truly spoke that General who said, 'build a bridge of gold for a
flying enemy!'" said de Lescure.

"And is Cathelineau's wound so surely mortal?" asked Henri.

"The surgeon who examined him in Pirmil said so; indeed, Cathelineau
never doubted it himself. He told me, as soon as he could speak, that
he should never live to see the Republic at an end. 'But,' added he,
'you, Foret, and others will; and it delights me to think that I have
given my life to so good a cause.'"

Henri's horse was now ready, and he made no longer delay than to say
adieu to his hostess, and to speak one or two last words to his cousin
Marie, and then he made the best of his way to Chatillon and St.
Laurent, hoping once more to see Cathelineau before he died. All his
spurring and his hurrying was in vain.

A few hours before Henri could reach the hospital, the Saint of Anjou
had breathed his last, and Agatha Larochejaquelin had soothed his dying
moments.

As Foret had related, Agatha, on hearing of Cathelineau's wound, had
turned deadly pale. It was not love that made her feel that the world
was darkened by his fall; that from henceforward nothing to her could
be bright and cheerful; at least not such love as that which usually
warms a woman's heart, for Agatha had never hoped, or even wished to be
more to Cathelineau than an admiring friend; nor yet was it grief for
the loss of services which she knew were invaluable to the cause she had
so warmly espoused. These two feelings were blended together in her
breast. She had taught herself to look to Cathelineau as the future
saviour of her country; she loved his virtue, his patriotism, and his
valour; and her heart was capable of no other love while that existed
in it so strongly. The idea of looking on Cathelineau as a lover, of
seeing him kneeling at her feet, or listening to him while he whispered
sweet praises of her beauty, had never occurred to her; had she dreamed
it possible that he could do so, half her admiration of him would have
vanished. No, there was nothing earthly, nothing mundane in Agatha's
love, for though she did love the fallen hero of La Vendée, the patriot
postillion of St. Florent, she did not shed a tear when she heard that
he was dragging his wounded body to St. Laurent, that he might have the
comfort of her tender care in his last moments; her hand did not shake
as she wrote a line to her father to say that she could not leave the
hospital that evening, or probably the next; nor did she for one half
hour neglect the duties which her less distinguished patients required
her to perform; but still she felt her heart was cold within her, and
that if God had so willed it, she could, without regret, take her place
in the grave beside the stricken idol of her admiration, who had fallen
at Nantes while fighting for his God and his King.

Early on the morning after Foret's departure for Clisson, the litter
which bore the wounded chief reached the hospital, and Agatha's arm
assisted him from the door-step to the death-bed, which she had prepared
for him. Agatha's feelings towards him have been imperfectly described;
but what were his feelings towards her? What was the nature of the
mysterious love, which no kind words had ever encouraged, which no look
had ever declared, which he had hardly dared to acknowledge to his own
heart, and which had yet induced the wounded man to make so painful a
journey, to travel over twenty long, long leagues, that he might once
more see the glorious face which had filled his breast with such an
unutterable passion? Not for a moment had he ever dreamt that Agatha
regarded him differently than she did the many others who had taken up
arms in the service of their country. His name he knew must be familiar
to her ears, for chance had made it prominent in the struggle; but
beyond that, it had never occurred to his humble mind that Agatha
Larochejaquelin had given one thought to the postillion of St. Florent.
For some time, Cathelineau had been unable to define to himself the
passion which he felt, but had gradually become aware that he loved
Agatha passionately, incurably, and hopelessly. Her image had been
present to him continually; it had been with him in the dead of night,
and in the heat of day; in the hour of battle, and at the council-table;
in the agony of defeat, and in the triumph of victory. When he found
himself falling in the square at Nantes, and all visible objects seemed
to swim before his eyes, still he saw Agatha's beautiful pale face, and
then she seemed to smile kindly on him, and to bid him hope. As soon as
his senses returned to him, he was made conscious that he was dying, and
then he felt that he should die more happily if he could see once more
the fair angel, who had illuminated and yet troubled the last few days
of his existence.

Cathelineau had heard that Agatha had taken under her own kind care the
hospital at St. Laurent, but he had not expected that she would be on
the step to meet him as he was lifted out of his litter; but hers was
the first face he saw on learning that his painful journey was at an
end. His wound had been pronounced to be inevitably mortal, and he had
been told that he might possibly live for two or three days, but that
in all probability his sufferings would not be protracted so long. The
fatal bullet had passed through his arm into his breast, had perforated
his lungs, and there, within the vitals of his body, the deadly missile
was still hidden. At some moments, his agony was extreme, but at others,
he was nearly free from pain; and as his life grew nearer to its close,
his intervals of ease became longer, and the periods of his suffering
were shortened. He had confessed, and received absolution and the
sacrament of his church at Remouille; and when he reached St. Laurent,
nothing was left for him but to die.

He tried to thank her, as Agatha assisted him to the little chamber
which she had prepared for him; but his own feelings, and his exertions
in moving were at first too much for him. The power of speech, however,
soon returned to him, and he said:

"How can I thank you, Mademoiselle, what am I to say to thank you for
such care as this?"

"You are not to thank us at all," said Agatha, (there was one of the
sisters of mercy with her in the room). "We are only doing what little
women can do for the cause, for which you have done so much."

Again he essayed to speak, but the sister stopped him with a kind yet
authoritative motion of her hand, and bade him rest tranquil a while,
and so he did. Sometimes Agatha sat by the window, and watched his bed,
and at others, she stole quietly out of the room to see her other
patients, and then she would return again, and take her place by the
window; and as long as she remained in the room, so that he could look
upon her face, Cathelineau felt that he was happy.

He had been at St. Laurent some few hours, and was aware that his
precious moments were fast ebbing. He hardly knew what it was that he
longed to say, but yet he felt that he could not die in peace without
expressing to the fair creature who sat beside him the gratitude he felt
for her tender care. Poor Cathelineau! he did not dream how difficult
he would find it to limit gratitude to its proper terms, when the heart
from which he spoke felt so much more than gratitude!

"Ah, Mademoiselle!" he began, but she interrupted him.

"Hush, hush, Cathelineau!" she said. "Did you not hear sister Anna say
that you should not speak."

"What avails it now for me to be silent?" said he. "I know,
Mademoiselle, that I am dying, and, believe me, I do not fear to die.
Your kind care can make my last few hours tranquil and easy, but it
cannot much prolong them. Let me have the pleasure of telling you that
I appreciate your kindness, and that I give you in return all that a
dying man can give--my prayers."

"And I will pray for you, Cathelineau," said Agatha. "But will not every
Vendean pray for the hero who first led them to victory, who first
raised his hand against the Republic?"

"How precious are the praises of such as you!" said he. "Pray for me
and for your other poor countrymen who have fallen in this contest; such
prayers as yours will assuredly find entrance into heaven."

He then again laid tranquil for a while, but his spirit was not quiet
within him; he felt that there was that which he longed to say before
he died, and that the only moments in which the power of speaking would
be left to him were fast passing from him.

"Do not bid me be silent," he said; "did I not know that no earthly
power could prolong my life, I would do nothing to defeat the object of
my kind nurses; but as it is, a few moments' speech are of value to me,
but an extra hour or so of torpid life can avail me nothing. Ah,
Mademoiselle, though I cannot but rejoice to see our cause assisted by
the nobility and excellence of the country, though I know that the
angelic aid of such as thou art--"

"Stop, stop," said Agatha, interrupting him, "if you will speak, at any
rate do not flatter; your last words are too precious to be wasted in
such idleness."

"It does not seem to be flattery in me to praise you, Mademoiselle;
heaven knows that I do not wish to flatter; but my rude tongue knows not
how to express what my heart feels. I would say, that valuable as is
your aid to our poor peasants, I almost regret to see you embarked in
a cause which will bathe the country in blood, and which, unless
speedily victorious, will bring death and desolation on the noble
spirits who have given to it all their energies and all their courage."

"Do you think so badly, Cathelineau, of the hopes of the royalists?"

"If we could make one great and glorious effort," said he, and his eyes
shone as brightly as ever while he spoke; "if we could concentrate all
our forces, and fill them with the zeal which, at different times, they
all have shewn, we might still place the King upon his throne, and the
white flag might still wave for ages from our churches, as a monument
of the courage of La Vendée. But if, as I fear, the war become one of
detached efforts, despite the wisdom of de Lescure, the skill of
Bonchamps, the piety of d'Elbée, the gallant enthusiasm of
Larochejaquelin, and the devoted courage of them all, the Republic by
degrees will devour their armies, will consume their strength, will
desolate the country, and put to the sword even their wives and
children: neither high nobility, nor illustrious worth, nor surpassing
beauty will shield the inhabitants of this devoted country from the
brutality of the conquerors, who have abjured religion, and proclaimed
that blood alone can satisfy their appetites."

"Surely God will not allow his enemies to prevail," said Agatha.

"God's ways are inscrutable," answered Cathelineau, "and his paths are
not plain to mortal eyes; but it is not the less our duty to struggle
on to do those things which appear to us to be acceptable to Him. But
should these sad days come, should atheism and the love of blood stride
without control through our villages; if it be doomed that our houses
are to be burnt and our women to be slaughtered, why should all remain
to be a prey to our enemies? "Mad Anthony Wayne" led a brilliant attack
against Stony Point on the Hudson, captured the British garrison, and
destroyed the fortifications. This year was also marked by a great
naval victory. Paul Jones lashed his vessel, the Bonhomme Richard, to
the British Serapis, off the northeast coast of England, and after
a desperate fight of three hours forced the Serapis to surrender.

But the brunt of the war now fell on the South, where the British,
unsuccessful in the Northern and Middle States, hoped for an easy
conquest.

The capture of Savannah in December, 1778, and of Augusta the next month,
laid Georgia prostrate. The royal government was re-instated by
Prevost, the British general. Our General Lincoln, who had been placed
in command of the Southern army, assisted by D'Estaing with his fleet,
besieged Savannah, but on October 9, 1779, was repulsed with heavy
loss.

[1780]

In the spring of 1780 Clinton arrived from New York with a fleet and
troops. Charleston, S. C, was besieged by land and sea. Lincoln was
compelled to surrender with his whole army.

Beaufort, Ninety-Six, and Camden capitulated in rapid succession. Marauding
expeditions overran the State. President Andrew Jackson carried to
his grave scars of hurts, one on his head, another on his hand, given
him by Tarleton's men when he was a boy at Waxhaw. The patriots
lay helpless.

The loyalists organized as militia and joined the British. Clinton, elated
by success, hoped to force the entire population into allegiance to
the king. The estates of patriots were sequestered. Any Carolinian found
in arms against the king might be, and multitudes were, hung for
treason.

Clinton even issued a proclamation requiring all inhabitants to take
active part on the royalist side. Sumter, Marion, and other leaders,
gathering around them little companies of bold men, carried on a guerilla
warfare which proved very annoying to the British. They would sally
forth from their hiding-places in the swamps, surprise some British
outpost or cut off some detachment, and retreat with their booty and
prisoners before pursuit could be made.

[Illustration: Medal with portrait.] John Paul Jones's Medal.
"Joanni Pavlo Jones" "Classis Praefecto." "Comitia American"

[Illustration: Medal with ship.] John Paul Jones's Medal (Reverse).
"HOSTIVM NAVIBVS" "CAPTIS AVTFVCATTS" "AD ORAM SCOTIAE XXIII SEPT."

"MDCCLXXVIII." "Dupre E"

But the British army in South Carolina and Georgia was 7,000 strong.
Help must come from without.

And help was coming. Washington detached from his scanty army 2,000 Maryland
troops and the Delaware regiment--all veterans--and sent them
south under De Kalb, a brave officer of German blood, who had seen
long service in France.

Virginia, though herself exposed, nobly contributed arms and men. Gates,
the laurels of Saratoga still fresh upon his brow, was, against
Washington's judgment, appointed by Congress to succeed Lincoln.

Cornwallis, whom the return of Clinton to New York had left in command,
lay at Camden, S. C. Gates, as if he had but to look the Briton in
the eye to beat him, pompously assumed the offensive. On August 15th
he made a night march to secure a more favorable position near
Camden.
Cornwallis happened to have chosen the same night for an attack upon
Gates. The two armies unexpectedly met in the woods, nine miles from
Camden, early in the morning of the 16th. Gates's force, increased by
North Carolina militia, was between 3,000 and 4,000. Cornwallis had about
2,000.

The American position was strong, a swamp protecting both flanks, but at
the first bayonet charge of the British veterans the raw militia threw
away their guns and "ran like a torrent." The Maryland and Delaware
Continentals stood their ground bravely, but were finally obliged to
retreat. De Kalb fell, with eleven wounds.

[Illustration: Portrait, holding a spear.] General Sullivan.
This heroic foreigner had been sent hither by Choiseul before the
Revolution to report to the French minister on American affairs,
and at the outbreak of war had at great cost cast in his lot with
our fathers.
Sent south to aid Lincoln, he arrived only in time to be utilized
by Gates. De Kalb was the hero of Camden. Wounded and his horse
shot from under him, on foot he led his stanch division in a charge
which drove Rawdon's men and took fifty prisoners. Believing his
side victorious he would not yield, though literally ridden down
by Cornwallis' dragoons, till his wounds exhausted him."Yes, Mademoiselle," he continued," I know you will
forgive, when coming from a dying man, words which would have been
insane had they been spoken at any other time--my life has been wholly
different since that day when your brother led me, unwilling as I was,
into your presence at Durbellière. Since that time I have had no other
thought than of you; it was you who gave me courage in battle, and, more
wonderful than that, enabled me to speak aloud, and with authority among
those who were all so infinitely my superiors. It was your beauty that
softened my rough heart, your spirit that made me dauntless, your
influence that raised me up so high. I have not dared to love you as
love is usually described, for they say that love without hope makes the
heart miserable, and my thoughts of you have made me more blessed than
I ever was before, and yet I hoped for nothing; but I have adored you
as I hardly dared to adore anything that was only human. I hardly know
why I should have had myself carried hither to tell you this, but I felt
that I should die more easily, when I had confessed to you the liberty
which my thoughts had taken with your image."

As he continued speaking, Agatha had risen from her seat, and she was
now kneeling at the foot of his bed, hiding her face between her hands,
and the tears were streaming fast down her cheeks.

"Tell me, Mademoiselle, that you forgive me," said he, "tell me that you
pardon my love, and above all, pardon me for speaking of it. I have now
but a few hours' breath, and in them I feel that I shall be but feeble;
but tell me that you forgive me, and, though dying, I shall be happy."

Agatha was too agitated to speak for a time, but she stretched her hand
out to him, and he grasped it in his own as forcibly as his strength
would allow.

"I know that you have pardoned my boldness," said he. "May God bless
you, and protect you in the dangers which are coming."

"May He bless you also, Cathelineau--dear Cathelineau," said Agatha,
still sobbing. "May He bless you, and receive you into His glory, and
seat you among His angels, and make you blessed and happy in His
presence for ever and ever through eternity." And she drew herself
nearer to him, and kissed the hand which she still held within her own,
and bathed it with her tears, and pressed it again and again to her
bosom. "The memory of the words you have spoken to me shall be dearer
to me than the love of man, shall be more precious to me than any homage
a living prince could lay at my feet--to remember that Cathelineau has
loved me--that the sainted Cathelineau has held my image in his heart,
shall be love enough for Agatha Larochejaquelin."

Cathelineau lingered on for the whole of that day, and the greater
portion of the night. Agatha did not leave his bed-side for a moment,
but sat during most of the time still holding his hand in hers. He spoke
no farther respecting the singular passion he had nursed in his heart,
nor did she allude to it; but when be spoke at all, he felt that he was
speaking to a dear, and tried, and valued friend, and he spoke,
therefore, without hesitation and without reserve. He desired her to
give various messages from him to the Vendean chiefs, but especially to
de Lescure, to whom he said he looked with most hope for a successful
issue to the struggle. A Christian by the very conditions of his creed,
and the obligations of his faith is, of necessity, in mind and soul--and
therefore in word and act--a gentleman, but a man may be polite without
being a Christian.
[Illustration] 

CHAPTER III.Agatha promised faithfully to be
a true messenger of these last injunctions, and then she saw the Vendean
chief expire in perfect tranquillity, happy in an assured hope of
everlasting joy.

