Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software


THE FOUNDATIONS OF PERSONALITY

BY
ABRAHAM MYERSON, M.D.


CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION

I. THE ORGANIC BASIS OF CHARACTER

II. THE ENVIRONMENTAL BASIS OF CHARACTER

III. MEMORY AND HABIT

IV. STIMULATION, INHIBITION, ORGANIZING ENERGY, CHOICE
     AND CONSCIOUSNESS

V. HYSTERIA, SUBCONSCIOUSNESS AND FREUDIANISM

VI. EMOTION, INSTINCT, INTELLIGENCE AND WILL

VII. EXCITEMENT, MONOTONY AND INTEREST

VIII. THE SENTIMENTS OF LOVE, FRIENDSHIP, HATE, PITY
     AND DUTY, COMPENSATION AND ESCAPE

IX. ENERGY RELEASE AND THE EMOTIONS

X. COURAGE, RESIGNATION, SUBLIMATION, PATIENCE, THE
     WISH AND ANHEDONIA

XI. THE EVOLUTION OF CHARACTER WITH ESPECIAL REFERENCE
     TO THE GROWTH OF PURPOSE AND PERSONALITY

XII. THE METHODS OF PURPOSE-WORK CHARACTERS

XIII. THE QUALITIES OF THE LEADER AND THE FOLLOWER

XIV. SEX CHARACTERS AND DOMESTICITY

XV. PLAY, RECREATION, HUMOR AND PLEASURE SEEKING

XVI. RELIGIOUS CHARACTERS. DISHARMONY IN CHARACTER

XVII. SOME CHARACTER TYPES


THE FOUNDATIONS OF PERSONALITY

INTRODUCTION

Man's interest in character is founded on an intensely practical
need. In whatsoever relationship we deal with our fellows, we
base our intercourse largely on our understanding of their
characters. The trader asks concerning his customer, "Is he
honest?" and the teacher asks about the pupil, "Is he earnest?"
The friend bases his friendship on his good opinion of his
friend; the foe seeks to know the weak points in the hated one's
make-up; and the maiden yearning for her lover whispers to,
herself, "Is he true?" Upon our success in reading the character
of others, upon our understanding of ourselves hangs a good deal
of our life's success or failure.

Because the feelings are in part mirrored on the face and body,
the experience of mankind has become crystallized in beliefs,
opinions and systems of character reading which are based on
physiognomy, shape of head, lines of hand, gait and even the
method of dress and the handwriting. Some of these all men
believe in, at least in part. For example, every one judges
character to a certain extent by facial expression, manner,
carriage and dress. A few of the methods used have become
organized into specialties, such as the study of the head or
phrenology, and the study of the hand or palmistry. All of these
systems are really "materialistic" in that they postulate so
close a union of mind and body as to make them inseparable.

But there are grave difficulties in the way of character-judging
by these methods. Take, for example, the study of the physiognomy
as a means to character understanding. All the physiognomists, as
well as the average man, look upon the high, wide brow as related
to great intelligence. And so it is--sometimes. But it is also
found in connection with disease of the brain, as in
hydrocephalus, and in old cases of rickets. You may step into
hospitals for the feeble-minded or for the insane and find here
and there a high, noble brow. Conversely you may attend a
scientific convention and find that the finest paper of the
meeting will be read not by some Olympian-browed member, but by a
man with a low, receding forehead, who nevertheless possesses a
high-grade intellect.

So for centuries men have recognized in the large aquiline nose a
sign of power and ability. Napoleon's famous dictum that no man
with this type of proboscis is a fool has been accepted by many,
most of whom, like Napoleon probably, have large aquiline noses.
The number of failures with this facial peculiarity has never
been studied, nor has any one remarked that many a highly
successful man has a snub nose. And in fact the only kind of a
nose that has a real character value is the one presenting no
obstruction to breathing. The assigned value given to a "pretty"
nose has no relation to character, except as its owner is vain
because of it.

One might go on indefinitely discussing the various features of
the face and discovering that only a vague relationship to
character existed. The thick, moist lower lip is the sensual lip,
say the physiognomists, but there are saints with sensual lips
and chaste thoughts. Squinty eyes may indicate a shifty
character, but more often they indicate conjunctivitis or some
defect of the optical apparatus. A square jaw indicates
determination and courage, but a study of the faces of men who
won medals in war for heroism does not reveal a preponderance of
square jaws. In fact, man is a mosaic of characters, and a fine
nature in one direction may be injured by a defect in another;
even if one part of the face really did mean something definite,
no one could figure out its character value because of the
influence of other features--contradictory, inconsistent,
supplementary. Just as the wisest man of his day took bribes as
Lord Chancellor, so the finest face may be invalidated by some
disharmony, and a fatal weakness may disintegrate a splendid
character. Moreover, no one really studies faces disinterestedly,
impartially, without prejudice. We like or dislike too readily,
we are blinded by the race, sex and age of the one studied, and,
most fatal of all, we judge by standards of beauty that are
totally misleading. The sweetest face may hide the most arrant
egoist, for facial beauty has very little to do with the nature
behind the face. In fact, facial make-up is more influenced by
diet, disease and racial tendency than by character.

It would be idle to take up in any detail the claims of
phrenologist and palmist. The former had a very respectable start
in the work of Broca and Gall[1] in that the localization of
function in the various parts of the brain made at least partly
logical the belief that the conformation of the head also
indicated functions of character. But there are two fatal flaws
in the system of phrenological claims. First, even if there were
an exact cerebral localization of powers, which there is not, it
would by no means follow that the shape of the head outlined the
brain. In fact, it does not, for the long-headed are not
long-brained, nor are the short-headed short-brained. Second, the
size and disposal of the sinuses, the state of nutrition in
childhood have far more to do with the "bumps" of the head than
brain or character. The bump of philoprogenitiveness has in my
experience more often been the result of rickets than a sign of
parental love.

[1] It is to be remembered that phrenology had a good standing at
one time, though it has since lapsed into quackdom. This is the
history of many a "short cut" into knowledge. Thus the wisest men
of past centuries believed in astrology. Paracelsus, who gave to
the world the use of Hg in therapeutics, relied in large part for
his diagnosis and cures upon alchemy and astrology.


Without meaning to pun, we may dismiss the claims of palmistry
offhand. Normally the lines of the hand do not change from birth
to death, but character does change. The hand, its shape and its
texture are markedly influenced by illness,[1] toil and care. And
gait, carriage, clothes and the dozen and one details by which we
judge our fellows indicate health, strength, training and
culture, all of which are components of character, or rather are
characters of importance but give no clue to the deeper-lying
traits.

[1] Notably is the shape of the hand changed by chronic heart and
lung disease and by arthritis. But the influence of the
endocrinal secretions is very great.


As a matter of fact, judgment of character will never be attained
through the study of face, form or hand. As language is a means
not only of expressing truth but of disguising it, so these
surface phenomena are as often masks as guides. Any sober-minded
student of life, intent on knowing himself or his fellows, will
seek no royal road to this knowledge, but will endeavor to
understand the fundamental forces of character, will strive to
trace the threads of conduct back to their origins in motive,
intelligence, instinct and emotion.

We have emphasized the practical value of some sort of character
analysis in dealing with others. But to know himself has a hugely
practical value to every man, since upon that knowledge depends
self-correction. For "man is the only animal that deliberately
undertakes while reshaping his outer world to reshape himself
also."[1] Moreover, man is the only seeker of perfection; he is a
deep, intense critic of himself. I am to set out this day for
London, and hope to have the honour of paying my respects to
Mr Johnson and you, about a week or ten days hence. I shall then
do what I can, to enforce the topick you mentioned; but at
present I cannot enter upon it, as I am in a very great hurry;
for I intend to begin my journey within an hour or two.

He was as good as his word, and threw some pleasing motives into
the northern scale. But, indeed, Mr Johnson loved all that he heard
from one whom he tells us, in his Lives of the Poets, Gray found
'a poet, a philosopher, and a good man'.

My Lord Elibank did not answer my letter to his lordship for some
time.

The reason will appear, when we come to the Isle of Sky.

I shall then insert my letter, with letters from his lordship,
both to myself and Mr Johnson. I beg it may be understood, that
I insert my own letters, as I relate my own sayings, rather
as keys to what is valuable belonging to others, than
for their own sake.

Luckily Mr Justice (now Sir Robert) Chambers, who was about
to sail for the East Indies, was going to take leave of his
relations at Newcastle, and he conducted Dr Johnson to that
town. Mr Scott, of University College, Oxford, (now Dr Scott,
of the Commons) accompanied him from thence to Edinburgh.
With such propitious convoys did he proceed to my native city.
But, lest metaphor should make it be supposed he actually went
by sea, I choose to mention that he travelled in post-chaises,
of which the rapid motion was one of his most favourite amusements.

Dr Samuel Johnson's character, religious, moral, political, and
literary, nay his figure and manner, are, I believe, more generally
known than those of almost any man; yet it may not be superfluous
here to attempt a sketch of him.

Let my readers then remember that he was a sincere and zealous
Christian, of high Church of England and monarchical principles,
which he would not tamely suffer to be questioned; steady
and inflexible in maintaining the obligations of piety and virtue,
both from a regard to the order of society, and from a veneration
for the Great Source of all order; correct, nay stern in his taste;
hard to please, and easily offended, impetuous and irritable in his
temper, but of a most humane and benevolent heart; having a mind
stored with a vast and various collection of learning and knowledge,
which he communicated with peculiar perspicuity and force, in rich
and choice expression.

He united a most logical head with a most fertile imagination,
which gave him an extraordinary advantage in arguing; for he
could reason close or wide, as he saw best for the moment. He
could, when he chose it, be the greatest sophist that ever
wielded a weapon in the schools of declamation; but he indulged
this only in conversation; for he owned he sometimes talked for
victory; he was too conscientious to make errour permanent and
pernicious, by deliberately writing it. He was conscious of
his superiority. He loved praise when it was brought to him;
but was too proud to seek for it. He was somewhat susceptible of
flattery. His mind was so full of imagery, that he might have been
perpetually a poet. It has been often remarked, that in his
poetical pieces, which it is to be regretted are so few, because
so excellent, his style is easier than in his prose. There is
deception in this: it is not easier, but better suited to the
dignity of verse; as one may dance with grace, whose motions,
in ordinary walking--in the common step--are awkward. He had a
constitutional melancholy, the clouds of which darkened the
brightness of his fancy, and gave a gloomy cast to his whole course
of thinking: yet, though grave and awful in his deportment, when
he thought it necessary or proper, he frequently indulged himself
in pleasantry and sportive sallies.

He was prone to superstition, but not to credulity. Though
his imagination might incline him to a belief of the marvellous,
and the mysterious, his vigorous reason examined the evidence
with jealousy. He had a loud voice, and a slow deliberate utterance,
which no doubt gave some additional weight to the sterling
metal of his conversation. Lord Pembroke said once to me at
Wilton, with a happy pleasantry, and some truth, that 'Dr
Johnson's sayings would not appear so extraordinary, were it
not for his bow-wow way': but I admit the truth of this only
on some occasions. The Messiah, played upon the Canterbury
organ, is more sublime than when played upon an inferior
instrument: but very slight musick will seem grand, when conveyed
to the ear through that majestick medium. WHILE THEREFORE DOCTOR
JOHNSON'S SAYINGS ARE READ, LET HIS MANNER BE TAKEN ALONG WITH
THEM. Let it however be observed, that the sayings themselves
are generally great; that, though he might be an ordinary composer
at times, he was for the most part a Handel.
His person was large, robust, I may say approaching to the gigantick,
and grown unwieldy from corpulency.

His countenance was naturally of the craft of an ancient statue,
but somewhat disfigured by the scars of that evil, which, it
was formerly imagined, the royal touch could cure. He was now
in his sixty-fourth year, and was become a little dull of
hearing.

His sight had always been somewhat weak; yet, so much does mind
govern, and even supply the deficiency of organs, that his perceptions
were uncommonly quick and accurate. His head, and sometimes
also his body, shook with a kind of motion like the effect of
a palsy: he appeared to be frequently disturbed by cramps, or
convulsive contractions, [Footnote: Such they appeared to me:
but since the first edition, Sir Joshua Reynolds has observed
to me, 'that Dr Johnson's extraordinary gestures were only habits,
in which he indulged himself at certain times.

When in company, where he was not free, or when engaged earnestly
in conversation, he never gave way to such habits, which proves
that they were not involuntary', I still however think, that
these gestures were involuntary; for surely had not that been the
case, he would have restrained them in the publick streets.]
of the nature of that distemper called St Vitus's dance. He
wore a full suit of plain brown clothes, with twisted-hair buttons
of the same colour, a large bushy greyish wig, a plain
shirt, black worsted stockings, and silver buckles.

Upon this tour, when journeying, he wore boots, and a very
wide brown cloth great coat, with pockets which might have
almost held the two volumes of his folio dictionary; and he carried
in his hand a large English oak stick. Let me not be censured
for mentioning such minute particulars.

Every thing relative to so great a man is worth observing. I
remember Dr Adam Smith, in his rhetorical lectures at Glasgow,
told us he was glad to know that Milton wore latchets in his shoes,
instead of buckles. When I mention the oak stick, it is but
letting Hercules have his club; and, by-and-by, my readers
will find this stick will bud, and produce a good joke.

This imperfect sketch of 'the combination and the form' of that
Wonderful Man, whom I venerated and loved while in this world, and
after whom I gaze with humble hope, now that it has pleased Almighty
God to call him to a better world, will serve to introduce to the
fancy of my readers the capital object of the following journal,
in the course of which I trust they will attain to a considerable
degree of acquaintance with him.

His prejudice against Scotland was announced almost as soon as he
began to appear in the world of letters. In his London, a poem,
are the following nervous lines:

For who would leave, unbrib'd, Hibernia's land Or change the rocks
of Scotland for the Strand There none are swept by sudden fate
away; But all, whom hunger spares, with age decay.

The truth is, like the ancient Greeks and Romans, he allowed himself
to look upon all nations but his own as barbarians: not only Hibernia,
and Scotland, but Spain, Italy, and France, are attacked in the
same poem.

If he was particularly prejudiced against the Scots, it was because
they were more in his way; because he thought their success in
England rather exceeded the due proportion of their real
merit; and because he could not but seenin them that nationality
which I believe no liberal-minded Scotsman will deny. He was
indeed, if I may be allowed the phrase, at bottom much of a
John Bull; much of a blunt 'true born Englishman'. There was
a stratum of common clay under the rock of marble. He was voraciously
fond of good eating; and he had a great deal of that quality
called humour, which gives an oiliness and a gloss to every
other quality.

I am, I flatter myself, completely a citizen of the world. In
my travels through Holland, Germany, Switzerland, Italy, Corsica,
France, I never felt myself from home; and I sincerely
love 'every kindred and tongue and people and nation'. I
subscribe to what my late truly learned and philosophical friend
Mr Crosbie said, that the English are better animals than
the Scots; they are nearer the sun; their blood is richer, and
more mellow: but when I humour any of them in an outrageous contempt
of Scotland, I fairly own I treat them as children.

And thus I have, at some moments, found myself obliged to treat
even Dr Johnson.

To Scotland however he ventured; and he returned from it in great
humour, with his prejudices much lessened, and with very
grateful feelings of the hospitality with which he was treated;
as is evident from that admirable work, his Journey to the Western
Islands of Scotland, which, to my utter astonishment, has been
misapprehended, even to rancour, by many of my countrymen.

To have the company of Chambers and Scott, he delayed his journey
so long, that the court of session, which rises on the eleventh
of August, was broke up before he got to Edinburgh.

On Saturday the fourteenth of August, 1773, late in the evening,
I received a note from him, that he was arrived at Boyd's
inn, at the head of the Canongate. I went to him directly. He
embraced me cordially; and I exulted in the thought, that I now
had him actually in Caledonia.

Mr Scott's amiable manners, and attachment to our Socrates,
at once united me to him. He told me that, before I came in,
the Doctor had unluckily had a bad specimen of Scottish
cleanliness.
He then drank no fermented liquor. He asked to have his lemonade
made sweeter; upon which the waiter, with his greasy fingers,
lifted a lump of sugar, and put it into it. The Doctor, in
indignation, threw it out of the window. Scott said, he was afraid
he would have knocked the waiter down. Mr Johnson told me, that
such another trick was played him at the house of a lady in Paris.

He was to do me the honour to lodge under my roof. I
regretted sincerely that I had not also a room for Mr Scott.
Mr Johnson and I walked arm-in-arm up the High Street, to my
house in James's court: it was a dusky night: I could not
prevent his being assailed by the evening effluvia of Edinburgh.
I heard a late baronet, of some distinction in the political world
in the beginning of the present reign, observe, that 'walking
the streets of Edinburgh at night was pretty perilous, and a
good deal odoriferous'.

The peril is much abated, by the care which the magistrates have
taken to enforce the city laws against throwing foul water from
the windows; but, from the structure of the houses in the old
town, which consist of many stories, in each of which a different
family lives, and there being no covered sewers, the odour
still continues.

A zealous Scotsman would have wished Mr Johnson to be without
one of his five senses upon this occasion. As we marched slowly
along, he grumbled in my ear, 'I smell you in the dark!' But he
acknowledged that the breadth of the street, and the
loftiness of the buildings on each side, made a noble
appearance.

My wife had tea ready for him, which it is well known he
delighted to drink at all hours, particularly when sitting up late,
and of which his able defence against Mr Jonas Hanway should have
obtained him a magnificent reward from the East India Company.

He shewed much complacency upon finding that the mistress of the
house was so attentive to his singular habit; and as no man could
be more polite when he chose to be so, his address to her was
most courteous and engaging; and his conversation soon charmed
her into a forgetfulness of his external appearance.

I did not begin to keep a regular full journal till some days after
we had set out from Edinburgh; but I have luckily preserved a
good many fragments of his Memorabilia from his very first evening
in Scotland.

We had, a little before this, had a trial for murder, in which the
judges had allowed the lapse of twenty years since its commission
as a plea in bar, in conformity with the doctrine of prescription
in the civil law, which Scotland and several other countries in
Europe have adopted.

He at first disapproved of this; but then he thought there was
something in it, if there had been for twenty years a neglect
to prosecute a crime which was KNOWN.

He would not allow that a murder, by not being DISCOVERED for
twenty years, should escape punishment. We talked of the ancient
trial by duel. He did not think it so absurd as is generally
supposed; 'For,' said he, 'it was only allowed when the
question was in equilibria, as when one affirmed and another denied;
and they had a notion that Providence would interfere in favour of
him who was in the right.

But as it was found that in a duel, he who was in the right had
not a better chance than he who was in the wrong, therefore society
instituted the present mode of trial, and gave the advantage
to him who is in the right.'
We sat till near two in the morning, having chatted a good while
after my wife left us.

She had insisted, that to shew all respect to the Sage, she would
give up her own bed-chamber to him, and take a worse.
This I cannot but gratefully mention, as one of a thousand obligations
which I owe her, since the great obligation of her being pleased
to accept of me as her husband.

Sunday, 15th August
Mr Scott came to breakfast, at which I introduced to Dr Johnson,
and him, my friend Sir William Forbes, now of Pitsligo; a man of
whom too much good cannot be said; who, with distinguished
abilities and application in his profession of a banker, is at
once a good companion, and a good Christian; which I think is
saying enough. Yet it is but justice to record, that once, when
he was in a dangerous illness, he was watched with the anxious
apprehension of a general calamity; day and night his house was
beset with affectionate inquiries; and, upon his recovery, Te deum
was the universal chorus from the hearts of his countrymen.

Mr Johnson was pleased with my daughter Veronica,[Footnote: "The
saint's name of Veronica was introduced into our family through
my great grandmother Veronica, Countess of Kincardine, a Dutch
lady of the noble house of Sommelsdyck, of which there is a full
account in Bayle's Dictionary.

The family had once a princely right in Surinam.
The governour of that settlement was appointed by the States
General, the town of Amsterdam, and Sommelsdyck. The States General
have acquired Sommelsdyck's right; but the family has still great
dignity and opulence, and by intermarriages is connected with many
other noble families.

When I was at the Hague, I was received with all the affection
of kindred. The present Sommelsdyck has an important charge in
the Republick, and is as worthy a man as lives. He has
honoured me with his correspondence for these twenty years. My
great grandfather, the husband of Countess Veronica, was Alexander,
Earl of Kincardine, that eminent Royalist whose character is
given by Burnet in his History of his own Times. From him the
blood of Bruce flows in my veins. Of such ancestry who would not
be proud? And, as Nihil est, nisi hoc sciat alter, is peculiarly
true of genealogy, who would not be glad to seize a fair opportunity
to let it be known "] then a child of about four months old.

She had the appearance of listening to him.
His motions seemed to her to be intended for her amusement;
and when he stopped, she fluttered, and made a little infantine
noise, and a kind of signal for him to begin again. She would
be held close to him; which was a proof, from simple nature,
that his figure was not horrid.
Her fondness for him endeared her still more to me, and I declared
she should have five hundred pounds of additional fortune.

We talked of the practice of the law. William Forbes said, he thought
an honest lawyer should never undertake a cause which he was
satisfied was not a just one. 'Sir,' said Mr Johnson, 'a lawyer
has no business with the justice or injustice of the cause
which he undertakes, unless his client asks his opinion, and then
he is bound to give it honestly.

The justice or injustice of the cause is to be decided by the
judge.
Consider, sir; what is the purpose of courts of justice? It is,
that every man may have his cause fairly tried, by men appointed
to try causes. A lawyer is not to tell what he knows to be a lie:
he is not to produce what he knows to be a false deed; but
he is not to usurp the province of the jury and of the judge,
and determine what shall be the effect of evidence--what shall be
the result of legal argument.

As it rarely happens that a man is fit to plead his own
cause, lawyers are a class of the community, who, by study
and experience, have acquired the art and power of arranging
evidence, and of applying to the points of issue what the law has
settled. A lawyer is to do for his client all that his client
might fairly do for himself, if he could. If, by a superiority
of attention, of knowledge, of skill, and a better method of
communication, he has the advantage of his adversary, it is an
advantage to which he is entitled. There must always be some
advantage, on one side or other; and it is better that advantage
should be had by talents, than by chance.

If lawyers were to undertake no causes till they were sure they
were just, a man might be precluded altogether from a trial of his
claim, though, were it judicially examined, it might be found
a very just claim.' This was sound practical doctrine, and
rationally repressed a too refined scrupulosity of
conscience.

Emigration was at this time a common topick of discourse. Dr Johnson
regretted it as hurtful to human happiness: 'For,' said he, 'it
spreads mankind which weakens the defence of a nation, and
lessens the comfort of living.

Men, thinly scattered, make a shift, but a bad shift, without
many things. A smith is ten miles off: they'll do without a
nail or a staple. A taylor is far from them: they'll botch
their own clothes. It is being concentrated which produces high
convenience.'
Sir William Forbes, Mr Scott, and I, accompanied Mr Johnson to the
chapel, founded by Lord Chief Baron Smith, for the Service
of the Church of England. The Reverend Mr Carre, the senior
clergyman, preached from these words, 'Because the Lord
reigneth, let the earth be glad.' I was sorry to think Mr
Johnson did not attend to the sermon, Mr Carre's low voice not
being strong enough to reach his hearing. A selection of Mr
Carre's sermons has, since his death, been published by Sir William
Forbes, and the world has acknowledged their uncommon merit.

I am well assured Lord Mansfield has pronounced them to be
excellent.

Here I obtained a promise from Lord Chief Baron Orde, that he would
dine at my house next day. I presented Mr Johnson to his
Lordship, who politely said to him, 'I have not the honour of
knowing you; but I hope for it, and to see you at my house.

I am to wait on you tomorrow.' This respectable English judge will
be long remembered in Scotland, where he built an elegant house,
and lived in it magnificently. His own ample fortune, with
the addition of his salary, enabled him to be splendidly hospitable.
It may be fortunate for an individual amongst ourselves to
be Lord Chief Baron; and a most worthy man now has the
office; but, in my opinion, it is better for Scotland
in general, that some of our publick employments should
be filled by gentlemen of distinction from the south side of
the Tweed, as we have the benefit of promotion in England.

Such an interchange would make a beneficial mixture of manners,
and render our union more complete.
Lord Chief Baron Orde was on good terms with us all, in
a narrow country filled with jarring interests and keen
parties; and, though I well knew his opinion to be the same with
my own, he kept himself aloof at a very critical period indeed,
when the Douglas cause shook the sacred security of birthright
in Scotland to its foundation; a cause, which had it happened
before the Union, when there was no appeal to a British House of
Lords, would have left the great fortress of honours and of property
in ruins.

When we got home, Dr Johnson desired to see my books. He took
down Ogden's Sermons on Prayer, on which I set a very high
value, having been much edified by them, and he retired
with them to his room. He did not stay long, but soon joined us
in the drawing room.

I presented to him Mr Robert Arbuthnot, a relation of the
celebrated Dr Arbuthnot, and a man of literature and taste.
To him we were obliged for a previous recommendation, which
secured us a very agreeable reception at St Andrews, and which
Dr Johnson, in his Journey, ascribes to 'some invisible friend'.

Of Dr Beattie, Mr Johnson said, 'Sir, he has written like
a man conscious of the truth, and feeling his own strength. Treating
your adversary with respect, is giving him an advantage to
which he is not entitled. The greatest part of men cannot judge
of reasoning, and are impressed by character; so that, if you
allow your adversary a respectable character, they will think,
that though you differ from him, you may be in the wrong. Sir,
treating your adversary with respect, is striking soft in a battle.
And as to Hume--a man who has so much conceit as to tell all mankind
that they have been bubbled for ages, and he is the wise man who
sees better than they--a man who has so little scrupulosity
as to venture to oppose those principles which have been thought
necessary to human happiness--is he to be surprised if
another man comes and laughs at him? If he is the great man he
thinks himself, all this cannot hurt him: it is like throwing
peas against a rock.' He added 'something much too
rough', both as to Mr Hume's head and heart, which I suppress.

Violence is, in my opinion, not suitable to the Christian cause.

To affirm the dependence of mind upon
body is not to deny that one may build up faith, hope, courage,
through example and precept, or that one may not inherit a
cheerfulness and courage (or the reverse). "There are men," says
James, "who are born under a cloud." But exceptional individuals
aside, the mass of mankind generates its mood either in the
tissues of the body or in the circumstances of life.

Children, because they have not built up standards of thought,
mood and act, demonstrate in a remarkable manner the dependence
of their character upon health.

A child shows the onset of an illness by a complete change in
character. I remember one sociable, amiable lad of two, rich in
the curiosity and expanding friendliness of that time of life,
who became sick with diphtheria. All his basic moods became
altered, and all his wholesome reactions to life disappeared. He
was cross and contrary, he had no interest in people or in
things, he acted very much as do those patients in an insane
hospital who suffer from Dementia Praecox. What is character if
it is not interest and curiosity, friendliness and love,
obedience and trust, cheerfulness and courage? Yet a sick child,
especially if very young, loses all these and takes on the
reverse characters. The little lad spoken of became "himself"
again when the fever and the pain lifted. Yet for a long time
afterward he showed a greater liability to fear than before, and
it was not until six months or more had repaired the more subtle
damage to his organism that he became the hardy little adventurer
in life that he had been before the illness.

There is plenty of chemical proof of this thesis as here set
forth. Men have from time immemorial put things "in their bellies
to steal their brains away." The chemical substance known as
ethyl alcohol has been an artificial basis of good fellowship the
world over, as well as furnishing a very fair share of the
tragedy, the misery and the humor of the world. This is because,
when ingested in any amount, its absorption produces changes in
the flow of thought, in the attitude toward life, in the mood,
the emotions, the purposes, the conduct,--in a word, in
character. One sees the austere man, when drunk, become ribald;
the repressed, close-fisted become open-mouthed and
open-hearted; the kindly, perhaps brutal; the controlled,
uncontrolled. In the change of character it effects is the regret
over its passing and the greatest reason for prohibition.

Alcohol causes several well-defined mental diseases as well as
mere drunkenness. In Delirium Tremens there is an acute delirium,
with confusion, excitement and auditory and visual hallucinations
of all kinds. The latter symptom is so prominent as to give the
reason for the popular name of the "snakes." In alcoholic
hallucinosis the patient has delusions of persecution and hears
voices accusing him of all kinds of wrong-doing. Very
frequently, as all the medical writers note, these voices are
"conscience exteriorized"; that is, the voices say of him just
what he has been saying of himself in the struggle against drink.
Then there is Alcoholic Paranoia, a disease in which the main
change is a delusion of jealousy directed against the mate, who
is accused of infidelity. It is interesting that in the last two
diseases the patient is "clear-headed"; memory and orientation
are good; the patient speaks well and gives no gross signs of his
trouble. As the effects of the alcohol wear away, the patient
recovers,--i.e., his character returns to its normal.

It becomes necessary at this point to take up a reverse side of
our study, namely, what is often called the influence of "mind
over matter." Such cures of disease as seem to follow prayer and
faith are cited; such incidents as the great strength of men
under emotion or the disturbances of the body by ideas are listed
as examples. This is not the place to discuss cures by faith. It
suffices to say this: that in the first place most of such cures
relate to hysteria, a disease we shall discuss later but which is
characterized by symptoms that appear and disappear like magic. I
have seen "cured" (and have "cured") such patients, affected with
paralysis, deafness, dumbness, blindness, etc., with reasoning,
electricity, bitter tonics, fake electrodes, hypnotism, and in
one case by a forcible slap upon a prominent and naked part of
the body. Hysteria has been the basis of many a saint's
reputation and likewise has aided many a physician into
affluence.

Nor is the effect of coincidence taken into account in estimating
cures, whether by faith or by drugs. Many a physician has owed
his start to the fact that he was called in on some obscure case
just when the patient was on the turn towards recovery. He then
receives the credit that belonged to Nature. Medical men
understand this,--that many diseases are "self-limited" and pass
through a cycle influenced but little by treatment. But faith
curists do not so understand, and neither does the mass of
people, so that neither one nor the other separates "post hoc"
from "propter hoc." If the truth were told, most of the miracle
and faith cures that are not of hysterical origin are due to
coincidence. Faith curists report in detail their successes, but
we have no statistics whatever of their failures.

If thought is a product of the brain activated by the rest of the
organism, it would be perfectly natural to expect that thought
would influence the organism. That thought is intimately
associated with impulses to action is well known. This action
largely takes place in the speech muscles but also it irradiates
into the rest of the organism. Especially is this true if the
thought is associated with some emotion. Emotion, as we shall
discuss it later, is at least in large part a bodily reaction, a
disturbance in heart, lungs, abdominal organs, blood vessels,
sympathetic nervous system, endocrines, etc. The effect of
thought and emotion upon the body, whether to heighten its
activity or to lower its activity, is, from my point of view,
merely the effect of one function of the organism upon others. We
are not surprised if digestion affects thinking and mood, and we
need not be surprised if thought and mood disturb or improve
digestion. And we may substitute for digestion any other organic
function.

As a working basis, substantiated by the kind of proof we use in
our daily lives in laboratories and machine shops, we may state
that mind, character and personality are organic in their origin
and are functions of the entire organism. What a man thinks, does
and feels (or perhaps we should reverse this order) is the result
of environmental forces playing upon a marvelously intricate
organism in which every part reacts on every other part, in which
nervous energy influences digestion and digestion influences
nervous energy, in which enzymes, hormones, and endocrines engage
in an extraordinary game of checks and balance, which in the
normal course of events make for the individual's welfare. What a
man thinks, does, and feels influences the fate of his organism
from one end of life to the other.

We have not adduced in favor of the organic nature of mind,
character and personality the facts of heredity. This is a most
important set of facts, for if the egg and the sperm carry
mentality and personality, they may be presumed to carry them in
some organic form, as organic potentialities, just as they carry
size,[1] color, sex, etc. That abnormal mind is inherited is
shown in family insanity in the second, third and fourth
generation cases of mental disease. Certain types of
feeble-mindedness surely are transmitted from generation to
generation, as witness the case of the famous (or infamous) Jukes
family. In this group vagabondage, crime, immorality and other
character abnormalities appeared linked with the
feeble-mindedness. But there is plenty of evidence to show that
normal character qualities are inherited as well as the
abnormal.[2] Galton, the father of eugenics, collected facts from
the history of successful families to prove this. It is true that
he failed to take into account the facts of SOCIAL heredity, in
that a gifted man establishes a place for himself and a tradition
for his family that is of great help to his son. Nevertheless,
musical ability runs in families and races, as does athletic
ability, high temper, passion, etc. In short, at least the
potentialities, the capacities for character, are transmitted
together with other qualities as part of the capital of heredity.

[1] I have collected and published from the records and wards of
the State Hospital at Taunton, Mass., many such cases. The whole
subject is to be reviewed in a following book on the transmission
of mental disease, but no one seriously doubts that there is a
transference of "insane" character from generation to generation.
In fact, I believe that a little too much stress hag been laid on
this aspect of mental disease and not enough on the fact that
sickness may injure a family stock and cause the descendants to
be insane. Any one who has seen a single case of congenital
General Paresis, where a child has a mental disease due to the
syphilis of a parent, and can doubt that character and mind are
organic, simply is blinded by theological or metaphysical
prejudice.

[2] See his book "Genius."


This means that in studying character and personality, we must
start with an analysis of the physical make-up of the individual.
We are not yet at the point in science where we can easily get at
the activities of the endocrinal glands in normal mentality. We
are able to recognize certain fundamental types, but more we
cannot do; nor are we able to measure nervous energy except in
relatively crude ways, but these crude ways have great value
under certain conditions.

When there has been a change in personality, the question of
bodily disease is always paramount. The first questions to be
asked under such circumstances are, "Is this person sick?" "Is
the brain involved?" "Are endocrinal glands involved?" "Is there
disease of some organ of the body, acting to lower the feeling of
well-being, acting to slacken the purposes and the will or to
obscure the intelligence?"

There are other important questions of this type to answer, some
of which may be deferred for the time. Meanwhile, the next
equally fundamental thesis is on the effect of the environment
upon mind, character and personality.


CHAPTER II. THE ENVIRONMENTAL BASIS OF CHARACTER

From the time any one of us is born into the world he is subject
to the influences of forces that reach backwards to the earliest
days of the race. The "dead hand" rules,--yes, and the dead
thought, belief and custom continue to shape the lives and
character of the living. The invention and development of speech
and writing have brought into every man's career the mental life
and character of all his own ancestors and the ancestors of every
other man.

A child is not born merely to a father and a mother. He is born
to a group, fiercely and definitely prejudiced in custom, belief
and ideal, with ways of doing, feeling and thinking which it
seeks to impose on each of its new members. Family, tribe, race
and nation all demand of each accession that he accept their
ideals, habits and beliefs on peril of disapproval and even of
punishment. And man is so constituted that the approval and
disapproval of his group mean more to him even than his life.

The social setting into which each one is born is his social
heredity. "The heredity with which civilization is most
supremely concerned," says Sir Edwin Ray Lankester, "is not that
which is inborn in the individual. It is the SOCIAL inheritance
which constitutes the dominant factor in human progress."[1] It
is this social inheritance which shapes our characters,
rough-hewn by nature. It is by the light of each person's social
inheritance that we must also judge his character.

[1] The Eugenists fiercely contest this statement, and rightly,
for it is extreme. Society is threatened at its roots by the
present high birth rate of the low grade and the low birth rate
of the high grade. Environment, culture, can do much, but they
cannot make a silk purse out of a sow's ear. Neither can heredity
make a silk purse out of silk; without culture and the
environmental influences, without social heredity, the silk
remains crude and with no special value. The aims of a rational
society, which we are born a thousand years too soon to see would
be twofold: to control marriage and birth so that the number of
the unfit would be kept as low as possible, and then to bring
fostering influences to bear on the fit.


"Education," says Oliver Wendell Holmes, "is only second to
nature. Imagine all the infants born this year in Boston and
Timbuctoo to change places!" And education is merely social
inheritance organized by parents and teachers for the sake of
molding the scholar into usefulness and conformity to the group
into which he is born. There may be in each individual an innate
capacity for this ability or that, for expressing and controlling
this or that emotion, for developing this or that purpose. Which
ability will be developed, which emotion or purpose will be
expressed, is a matter of the age in which a man is born, the
country in which he lives, the family which claims him as its
own. In a warrior age the fighting spirit chooses war as its
vocation and develops a warlike character; in a peaceful time
that same fighting spirit may seek to bring about such reforms as
will do away with war.[1] When the world said that a man might
and really ought now and then to beat his wife and rule her by
force, the really conformable man did so, while his descendant,
living in a time and country where woman is the domestic "boss,"
submits, humorously and otherwise, to a good-natured henpecking.
And in the times where a woman had no vocation but that of
housewife, the wife of larger ability merely became a
discontented, futile woman; whereas in an age which opens up
politics to her, the same type of person expands into a vigorous,
dominating political leader. Though the force of the water remain
the same, the nature of the land determines whether the water
shall collect as a river, carrying the produce of the land to the
sea, or as a stagnant lake in which idlers fish. Time, social
circumstances, education and a thousand and one factors determine
whether one shall be a "Village Hampden," quarreling in a petty
way with a petty autocrat over some petty thing, or a national
Hampden, whose defiance of a tyrannical king stirs a nation into
revolt.

[1] Indeed, a reformer is to-day called a crusader, though the
knight of the twelfth century armed cap-a-pie for a joust with
the Saracen would hardly recognize as his spiritual descendant a
sedentary person preaching against rum. Yet to the student of
character there is nothing anomalous in the transformation.


How conceptions of right and wrong, of proper and improper
conduct, ideals and thoughts arise, it is not my function to
treat in detail. That intelligence primarily uses the method of
trial and error to learn is as true of groups as of individuals;
and established methods of doing things--customs--are often
enough temporary conclusions, though they last a thousand years.
The feeling that such group customs are right and that to depart
from them is wrong, is perhaps based on a specific instinct, the
moral instinct; but much more likely, in my opinion, is it
obedience to leadership, fear of social disapproval and
punishment, conscience, imitation, suggestibility and sympathy,
all of which are parts of that social cement substance, the
social instinct. No child ever learns "what is right and wrong"
except through teaching, but no child would ever conform, except
through gross fear, unless he found himself urged by deep-seated
instincts to be in conformity, in harmony and in sympathy with
his group,--to be one with that group. Perhaps it is true, as
Bergson suggests, as Galton[1] hints and as Samuel Butler boldly
states, that there are no real individuals in life but we are
merely different aspects of reality or, to phrase it
materialistically, corpuscles in the blood stream of an organism
too vast and complicated to be encompassed by our imagination.
Just as a white blood cell obeys laws of which it can have no
conception, fulfills purposes whose meaning transcends its own
welfare, so we, with all our self-consciousness and all the
paraphernalia of individuality, are perhaps parts of a life we
cannot understand.

[1] For example, read what the hard-headed Galton says
("Hereditary Genius," p. 376):

"There is decidedly a solidarity as well as a separateness in all
human and probably in all lives whatsoever, and this
consideration goes far, I think, to establish an opinion that the
constitution of the living universe is a pure theism and that its
form of activity is what may he described as cooperative. It
points to the conclusion that all life is single in its essence,
but various, ever-varying and interactive in its manifestations,
and that men and all other living animals are active workers and
sharers in a vastly more extended system of cosmic action than
any of ourselves, much less of them, can possibly comprehend. It
also suggests that they may contribute, more or less
unconsciously, to the manifestation of a far higher life than our
own, somewhat as . . . the individual cells of one of the more
complex animals contribute to the manifestations of its higher
order of personality." Perhaps such a unity is the basis of
instinct, of knowledge without teaching, of desire and wish that
has not the individual welfare as its basis. No man can reject
such phenomena as telepathy or thought transference merely
because he cannot understand them on a basis of strict human
individuality. To reject because one cannot understand is the
arrogance of the "clerico-academic" type of William James.


No one can read the stories of travelers or the writings of
anthropologists without concluding that codes of belief and
action arise out of the efforts of groups to understand and to
influence nature and that out of this practical effort AND
seeking of a harmonious reality arises morality. "Man seeks the
truth, a world that does not contradict itself, that does not
deceive, that does not change; a real world,--a world in which
there is no suffering. Contradiction, deception and variability
are the causes of suffering. He does not doubt there is such a
thing as, a world as it might be, and he would fain find a road
to it."[1] But alas, intelligence and knowledge both are
imperfect, and one group seeking a truth that will bring them
good crops, fine families, victory over enemies, riches, power
and fellowship, as well as a harmonious universe, finds it in
idol worship and polygamy; another group seeking the same truth
finds it in Christianity and monogamy. And the members of some
groups are born to ideals, customs and habits that make it right
for a member to sing obscene songs and to be obscene at certain
periods, to kill and destroy the enemy, to sacrifice the
unbeliever, to worship a clay image, to have as many wives as
possible, and that make it WRONG to do otherwise. Indeed, he who
wishes a child to believe absolutely in a code of morals would
better postpone teaching him the customs and beliefs of other
people until habit has made him adamant to new ideas.

[1] Nietzsche.


It is with pleasure that I turn the attention of the reader to
the work of Frazier in the growth of human belief, custom and
institutions that he has incorporated into the stupendous series
of books called "The Golden Bough." The things that influence us
most in our lives are heritages, not much changed, from the
beliefs of primitive societies. Believing that the forces of the
world were animate, like himself, and that they might be moved,
persuaded, cajoled and frightened into favorable action,
undeveloped man based most of his customs on efforts to obtain
some desired result from the gods. Out of these customs grew the
majority of our institutions; out of these queer beliefs and
superstitions, out of witchcraft, sympathetic magic, the "Old
Man" idea, the primitive reaction to sleep, epilepsy and death
grew medicine, science, religion, festivals, the kingship, the
idea of soul and most of the other governing and directing ideas
of our lives. It is true that the noble beliefs and sciences also
grew from these rude seeds, but with them and permeating our
social structure are crops of atrophied ideas, hampering customs,
cramping ideals. Further, in every race in every country, in
every family, there are somewhat different assortments of these
directing traditional forces; and it is these social inheritances
which are more responsible for difference in people than a native
difference in stock.

Consider the difference that being born and brought up in Turkey
and being born, let us say, in New York City, would make in two
children of exactly the same disposition, mental caliber and
physical structure. One would grow up a Turk and the other a New
Yorker, and the mere fact that they had the same original
capacity for thought, feeling and action would not alter the
result that in character the two men would stand almost at
opposite poles. One need not judge between them and say that one
was superior to the other, for while I feel that the New Yorker
might stand OUR inspection better, I am certain that the Turk
would be more pleasing to Turkish ideas. The point is that they
would be different and that the differences would result solely
from the environmental forces of natural conditions and social
inheritance.

Study the immigrant to the United States and his descendant,
American born and bred. Compare Irishman and Irish-American,
Russian Jew and his American-born descendant; compare Englishman
and the Anglo-Saxon New England descendant. Here is a race, the
Jew, which in the Ghetto and under circumstances that built up a
tremendously powerful set of traditions and customs developed a
very distinctive type of human being. Poor in physique, with
little physical pugnacity, but worshiping, learning and reaching
out for wealth and power in an unusually successful manner, the
crucible of an adverse and hostile environment rendered him
totally different in manners from his Gentile neighbors. With a
high birth rate and an intensely close and pure family life, the
Ghetto Jew lived and died shut off by the restrictions placed
upon him and his own social heredity from the life of the country
of his birth. Then came immigration to the United States through
one cause or another,--and note the results.

With the old social heredity still at work, another set of
customs, traditions and beliefs comes into open competition with
it in the bosom of the American Jew. Nowhere is the struggle
between the old and the new generations so intense as in the home
of the Orthodox Jew. His descendant is clean-shaven and no longer
observes (or observes only perfunctorily or with many a gross
inconsistency) the dietary and household laws. He is a free
spender and luxurious in his habits as compared with his
economical, ascetic forefathers. He marries late and the birth
rate drops with most astonishing rapidity, so that in one
generation the children of parents who had eight or ten children
have families of one or two or three children. He becomes a
follower of sports, and with his love for scholarship still
strong, as witness his production of scholars and scientists, the
remarkable rise of the Jewish prize fighter stands out as a
divergence from tradition that mocks at theories of inborn racial
characters. And a third generation differs in customs, manners,
ideals, purposes and physique but little from the social class of
Americans in which the individual members move. The names become
Anglicized; gone are the Abrahams and Isaacs and Jacobs, the
Rachels and Leahs and Rebeccas, and in their place are Vernon,
Mortimer, Winthrop, Alice, Helen and Elizabeth. And this change
in name symbolizes the revolution in essential characters.

Has the racial stock changed in one generation or two? No. A new
social heredity has overcome--or at least in part supplanted--an
older social heredity and released and developed characters
hitherto held in check. In every human being--and this is a theme
we shall enlarge upon later--there are potential lines of
development far outnumbering those that can be manifested, and
each environment and tradition calls forth some and suppresses
others. Every man is a garden planted with all kinds of seeds;
tradition and teaching are the gardeners that allow only certain
ones to come to bloom. In each age, each country and each family
there is a different gardener at work, repressing certain trends
in the individual, favoring and bringing to an exaggerated growth
other trends.

That each family, or type of family, acts in this way is
recognized in the value given to the home life. The home, because
of its sequestration, allows for the growth of individual types
better than would a community house where the same traditions and
ideals governed the life of each child. In the home the parents
seek to cultivate the specific type of character they favor. The
home is par excellence the place where prejudice and social
attitude are fostered. Though the mother and father seek to give
broadmindedness and wide culture to the child, their efforts must
largely be governed by their own attitudes and reactions,--in
short, by their own character and the resultant examples and
teaching. It is true that the native character of the child may
make him resistant to the teachings of the parents or may even
develop counter-prejudices, to react violently against the
gardening. This is the case when the child is of an opposing
temperament or when in the course of time he falls under the
influence of ideals and traditions that are opposed to those of
his home. Unless the home combines interest and freedom, together
with teaching, certain children become violent rebels, and,
seeking freedom and interest outside of the home, find themselves
in a conflict, both with their home teaching and the home
teachers, that shakes the unity and the happiness of parent and
child. Like all civil wars this war between new and old
generations reaches great bitterness.

In studying the cases of several hundred delinquent girls, as a
consultant to the Parole Department of Massachusetts, it was
found that the family life of the girls could be classified in
two ways. The majority of the girls that reached the Reformatory
came from bad homes,--homes in which drunkenness, prostitution,
feeble-mindedness, and insanity were common traits of the
parents. Or else the girls were orphans brought up by a
stepmother or some careless foster mother. In any case, through
either example, cruelty or neglect, they drifted into the
streets.

And the streets! Only the poor child (or the child brought up
over strictly) can know the lure of the streets. THERE is
excitement, THERE is freedom from prohibitions and inhibitions.
So the boy or girl finds a world without discipline, is without
the restraints imposed on the sex instincts and comes under the
influence of derelicts, sex-adventurers, thieves, vagabonds and
the aimless of all sorts. Into this university of the vices most
of the girls I am speaking of drifted, largely because the home
influence either was of the street type or had no advantages to
offer in competition with the street.

But the child on the streets is no more a solitary individual
than the savage is, or for that matter the civilized man. He
quickly forms part of a group, a roving group, called "The Gang."
In the large cities gangs are usually composed of boys of one age
or nearly so; in the small towns the gangs will consist of the
boys of a neighborhood. In fact, regardless of whether they are
street children or home children, boys form gangs spontaneously.
The gang is the first voluntary organization of society, for the
home, in so far as the child is concerned, is an involuntary
organization. The gang has its leader or leaders, usually the
strongest or the best fighter. At any rate, the best fighter is
the nominal leader, though a shrewder lad may assume the real
power. The gang has rules, it plays according to regulations, its
quarrels are settled according to a code, property has a definite
status and distribution.[1] The members of the gang are always
quarreling with each other, but here, as in the larger
aggregations of older human beings, "politics ends at the
border," and the gang is a unit against foreign aggression.
Indeed, gangs of a neighborhood may league against a group of
other gangs, as did the quarreling cities of Greece against
Persia.

[1] In the gang of which I was a member there was a ritual in the
formation of partnership, an association within the association.
Two boys, fond of each other and desiring to become partners,
would link little fingers, while a third boy acting as a sort of
priest--an elder of the gang--would raise his hand and strike the
link, shouting, "Partners, partners, never break!" This ritual
was a symbol of the unity of the pair, so that they fought for
each other, shared all personal goods (such as candy, pocket
money, etc.,) and were to be loyal and sympathetic throughout
life. Alas, dear partner of my boyhood, most gallant of fighters
and most generous of souls, where are you, and where is our
friendship, now?


For the student of mankind the gang is one of the most
fascinating phenomena. Here the power of tradition, without the
aid of records, is seen. Throughout America, in a mysterious way,
all the boys start spinning tops at a certain season and then
suddenly cease and begin, to play marbles. Without any
standardization of a central type they have the same rules for
their games, call them by the same names and use in their songs
the same rhymes and airs. Every generation of children has the
same jokes and trick games: "Eight and eight are sixteen, stick
your nose in kerosene"--"A dead cat, I one it, you two it, I
three it, you four it, I five it, you six it, I seven it, you
eight it!" The fact is, of course, that there are no generations
as distinct entities; there are always individuals of one age,
and there is a mutual teaching and learning going on at all
times, which is the basis of transmission of tradition. I have
seen books made of things that were never either studied or
understood; the author committing to several of his learned
friends the examination of this and t'other matter to compile it,
contenting himself, for his share, with having projected the design,
and by his industry to have tied together this faggot of unknown
provisions; the ink and paper, at least, are his.

This is to buy or borrow a book, and not to make one; 'tis to show
men not that he can make a book, but that, whereof they
may be in doubt, he cannot make one.
A president, where I was, boasted that he had amassed together
two hundred and odd commonplaces in one of his judgments; in
telling which, he deprived himself of the glory he had got by it:
in my opinion, a pusillanimous and absurd vanity for such
a subject and such a person.

I do the contrary; and amongst so many borrowed things, am
glad if I can steal one, disguising and altering it for some
new service; at the hazard of having it said that 'tis for want
of understanding its natural use; I give it some particular touch
of my own hand, to the end it may not be so absolutely foreign.
These set their thefts in show and value themselves upon
them, and so have more credit with the laws than I have:
we naturalists I think that there is a great and incomparable
preference in the honour of invention over that of allegation.

If I would have spoken by learning, I had spoken sooner; I had
written of the time nearer to my studies, when I had more wit
and better memory, and should sooner have trusted to the vigour
of that age than of this, would I have made a business of writing.

And what if this gracious favour --[His acquaintance with
Mademoiselle de Gournay.]--which Fortune has lately offered me
upon the account of this work, had befallen me in that time
of my life, instead of this, wherein 'tis equally desirable to
possess, soon to be lost!

Two of my acquaintance, great men in this faculty, have, in my
opinion, lost half, in refusing to publish at forty years old,
that they might stay till threescore. Maturity has its defects as
well as green years, and worse; and old age is as unfit for this
kind of business as any other.

He who commits his decrepitude to the press plays the fool if
he think to squeeze anything out thence that does not relish of
dreaming, dotage, and drivelling; the mind grows costive and
thick in growing old. I deliver my ignorance in pomp and state,
and my learning meagrely and poorly; this accidentally
and accessorily, that principally and expressly; and write
specifically of nothing but nothing, nor of any science but
of that inscience. I have chosen a time when my life, which I
am to give an account of, lies wholly before me; what remains
has more to do with death; and of my death itself, should I
find it a prating death, as others do, I would willingly
give an account at my departure.

Socrates was a perfect exemplar in all great qualities, and I am
vexed that he had so deformed a face and body as is said,
and so unsuitable to the beauty of his soul, himself being so
amorous and such an admirer of beauty: Nature did him wrong. There
is nothing more probable than the conformity and relation of the
body to the soul:

"Ipsi animi magni refert, quali in corpore locati sint: multo
enim a corpore existunt, qux acuant mentem: multa qua obtundant;"

["It is of great consequence in what bodies minds are
placed, for many things spring from the body that may sharpen
the mind, and many that may blunt it."--Cicero, Tusc. Quaes.,
i. 33.]
this refers to an unnatural ugliness and deformity of limbs; but
we call ugliness also an unseemliness at first sight, which
is principally lodged in the face, and disgusts us on very slight
grounds: by the complexion, a spot, a rugged countenance,
for some reasons often wholly inexplicable, in members
nevertheless of good symmetry and perfect. The deformity, that
clothed a very beautiful soul in La Boetie, was of this
predicament:
that superficial ugliness, which nevertheless is always the most
imperious, is of least prejudice to the state of the mind, and of
little certainty in the opinion of men. The other, which is never
properly called deformity, being more substantial, strikes
deeper in. Not every shoe of smooth shining leather, but every
shoe well-made, shews the shape of the foot within. As Socrates
said of his, it betrayed equal ugliness in his soul, had he not
corrected it by education; but in saying so, I hold he was
in jest, as his custom was; never so excellent a soul formed
itself.

I cannot often enough repeat how great an esteem I have for beauty,
that potent and advantageous quality; he (La Boetie) called it "a
short tyranny," and Plato, "the privilege of nature."

We have nothing that excels it in reputation; it has the
first place in the commerce of men; it presents itself in the
front; seduces and prepossesses our judgments with great authority
and wonderful impression. Phryne had lost her cause in the hands
of an excellent advocate, if, opening her robe, she had not
corrupted her judges by the lustre of her beauty. And I find that
Cyrus, Alexander, and Caesar, the three masters of the
world, never neglected beauty in their greatest affairs; no more
did the first Scipio. The same word in Greek signifies both fair
and good; and the Holy Word often says good when it means fair:
I should willingly maintain the priority in good things, according
to the song that Plato calls an idle thing, taken out of
some ancient poet: "health, beauty, riches." Aristotle says that
the right of command appertains to the beautiful; and that, when
there is a person whose beauty comes near the images of the
gods, veneration is equally due to him. To him who asked why
people oftener and longer frequent the company of handsome
persons: "That question," said he, "is only to be asked by the
blind." Most of the philosophers, and the greatest, paid for
their schooling, and acquired wisdom by the favour and
mediation of their beauty. Not only in the men that serve me,
but also in the beasts, I consider it within two fingers'
breadth of goodness.

And yet I fancy that those features and moulds of face, and those
lineaments, by which men guess at our internal complexions and our
fortunes to come, is a thing that does not very directly and simply
lie under the chapter of beauty and deformity, no more than every
good odour and serenity of air promises health, nor all fog and
stink infection in a time of pestilence.

Such as accuse ladies of contradicting their beauty by their
manners, do not always hit right; for, in a face which is none
of the best, there may dwell some air of probity and
trust; as, on the contrary, I have read, betwixt two beautiful
eyes, menaces of a dangerous and malignant nature. There are
favourable physiognomies, so that in a crowd of victorious
enemies, you shall presently choose, amongst men you never saw
before, one rather than another to whom to surrender, and with
whom to intrust your life; and yet not properly upon the
consideration of beauty.

A person's look is but a feeble warranty; and yet it is
something considerable too; and if I had to lash them,
I would most severely scourge the wicked ones who belie and
betray the promises that nature has planted in their foreheads; I
should with greater severity punish malice under a mild and gentle
aspect.

It seems as if there were some lucky and some unlucky faces; and
I believe there is some art in distinguishing affable from merely
simple faces, severe from rugged, malicious from pensive, scornful
from melancholic, and such other bordering qualities.
There are beauties which are not only haughty, but sour, and others
that are not only gentle, but more than that, insipid; to prognosticate
from them future events is a matter that I shall leave undecided.

I have, as I have said elsewhere as to my own concern, simply and
implicitly embraced this ancient rule, "That we cannot fail in
following Nature," and that the sovereign precept is to conform
ourselves to her.
I have not, as Socrates did, corrected my natural composition by
the force of reason, and have not in the least disturbed my
inclination by art; I have let myself go as I came: I contend
not; my two principal parts live, of their own accord, in peace
and good intelligence, but my nurse's milk, thank God, was tolerably
wholesome and good. Shall I say this by the way, that I see in
greater esteem than 'tis worth, and in use solely among ourselves,
a certain image of scholastic probity, a slave to precepts,
and fettered with hope and fear? I would have it such as that
laws and religions should not make, but perfect and authorise
it; that finds it has wherewithal to support itself without
help, born and rooted in us from the seed of universal reason,
imprinted in every man by nature.

That reason which strengthens Socrates from his vicious bend
renders him obedient to the gods and men of authority in his
city:

courageous in death, not because his soul is immortal, but because
he is mortal. 'Tis a doctrine ruinous to all government, and
much more hurtful than ingenious and subtle, which persuades
the people that a religious belief is alone sufficient, and without
conduct, to satisfy the divine justice. Use demonstrates
to us a vast distinction betwixt devotion and conscience.

I have a favourable aspect, both in form and in interpretation:

"Quid dixi, habere me? imo habui, Chreme."
["What did I say? that I have? no, Chremes, I had." --Terence,
Heaut., act i., sec. 2, v. 42.]
"Heu! tantum attriti corporis ossa vides;"
["Alas! of a worn body thou seest only the bones"]
and that makes a quite contrary show to that of Socrates. It has
often befallen me, that upon the mere credit of my presence and
air, persons who had no manner of knowledge of me have put a
very great confidence in me, whether in their own affairs
or mine; and I have in foreign parts thence obtained
singular and rare favours. But the two following examples are,
peradventure, worth particular relation.

A certain person planned to surprise my house and me in it; his
scheme was to come to my gates alone, and to be importunate
to be let in. I knew him by name, and had fair reason to repose
confidence in him, as being my neighbour and something related
to me. I caused the gates to be opened to him, as I do to every
one. There I found him, with every appearance of alarm, his horse
panting and very tired. He entertained me with this story:
"That, about half a league off, he had met with a certain enemy of
his, whom I also knew, and had heard of their quarrel; that his
enemy had given him a very brisk chase, and that having been
surprised in disorder, and his party being too weak, he had
fled to my gates for refuge; and that he was in great trouble
for his followers, whom (he said) he concluded to be all
either dead or taken." I innocently did my best to comfort,
assure, and refresh him. Shortly after came four or five of his
soldiers, who presented themselves in the same countenance
and affright, to get in too; and after them more, and still
more, very well mounted and armed, to the number of five-and-twenty
or thirty, pretending that they had the enemy at their heels.
This mystery began a little to awaken my suspicion; I was not
ignorant what an age I lived in, how much my house might
be envied, and I had several examples of others of my
acquaintance to whom a mishap of this sort had happened. But
thinking there was nothing to be got by having begun to do a
courtesy, unless I went through with it, and that I could not
disengage myself from them without spoiling all, I let myself go
the most natural and simple way, as I always do, and invited them
all to come in.

And in truth I am naturally very little inclined to suspicion
and distrust; I willingly incline towards excuse and the gentlest
interpretation; I take men according to the common order, and do
not more believe in those perverse and unnatural inclinations,
unless convinced by manifest evidence, than I do in monsters and
miracles; and I am, moreover, a man who willingly commit myself to
Fortune, and throw myself headlong into her arms; and I have hitherto
found more reason to applaud than to blame myself for so doing,
having ever found her more discreet about, and a greater friend to,
my affairs than I am myself.

There are some actions in my life whereof the conduct may justly
be called difficult, or, if you please, prudent; of these,
supposing the third part to have been my own, doubtless the other
two-thirds were absolutely hers. We make, methinks, a mistake
in that we do not enough trust Heaven with our affairs,
and pretend to more from our own conduct than appertains
to us; and therefore it is that our designs so often miscarry.
Heaven is jealous of the extent that we attribute to the
right of human prudence above its own, and cuts it all the
shorter by how much the more we amplify it. The last comers remained
on horseback in my courtyard, whilst their leader, who was with
me in the parlour, would not have his horse put up in the stable,
saying he should immediately retire, so soon as he had news of
his men. He saw himself master of his enterprise, and nothing now
remained but its execution.
He has since several times said (for he was not ashamed to tell
the story himself) that my countenance and frankness had
snatched the treachery out of his hands. He again mounted his
horse; his followers, who had their eyes intent upon him, to see
when he would give the signal, being very much astonished to find
him come away and leave his prey behind him.

Another time, relying upon some truce just published in the army,
I took a journey through a very ticklish country. I had not ridden
far, but I was discovered, and two or three parties of horse, from
various places, were sent out to seize me; one of them overtook me
on the third day, and I was attacked by fifteen or twenty gentlemen
in vizors, followed at a distance by a band of foot-soldiers.

I was taken, withdrawn into the thick of a neighbouring forest,
dismounted, robbed, my trunks rifled, my money-box taken,
and my horses and equipage divided amongst new masters.
We had, in this copse, a very long contest about my ransom,
which they set so high, that it was manifest that I was not
known to them. They were, moreover, in a very great debate about
my life; and, in truth, there were various circumstances that
clearly showed the danger I was in:

"Tunc animis opus, AEnea, tunc pectore firmo."
["Then, AEneas, there is need of courage, of a firm heart."
--AEneid, vi. 261.]
I still insisted upon the truce, too willing they should have
the gain of what they had already taken from me, which was not
to be despised, without promise of any other ransom. After two
or three hours that we had been in this place, and that
they had mounted me upon a horse that was not likely to run
from them, and committed me to the guard of fifteen or twenty
harquebusiers, and dispersed my servants to others, having
given order that they should carry us away prisoners several
ways, and I being already got some two or three musket-shots
from the place,
"Jam prece Pollucis, jam Castoris, implorata,"
["By a prayer addressed now to Pollux, now to Castor."

--Catullus, lxvi. 65.]
behold a sudden and unexpected alteration; I saw the chief return
to me with gentler language, making search amongst the
troopers for my scattered property, and causing as much as could
be recovered to be restored to me, even to my money-box; but the
best present they made was my liberty, for the rest did
not much concern me at that time.

The true cause of so sudden a change, and of this reconsideration,
without any apparent impulse, and of so miraculous a repentance,
in such a time, in a planned and deliberate enterprise, and
become just by usage (for, at the first dash, I plainly confessed
to them of what party I was, and whither I was going),
truly, I do not yet rightly understand. The most prominent amongst
them, who pulled off his vizor and told me his name, repeatedly
told me at the time, over and over again, that I owed my deliverance
to my countenance, and the liberty and boldness of my speech, that
rendered me unworthy of such a misadventure, and should secure me
from its repetition.

'Tis possible that the Divine goodness willed to make use of this
vain instrument for my preservation; and it, moreover, defended
me the next day from other and worse ambushes, of which these
my assailants had given me warning. The last of these two
gentlemen is yet living himself to tell the story; the first was
killed not long ago.

If my face did not answer for me, if men did not read in my
eyes and in my voice the innocence of intention, I had not
lived so long without quarrels and without giving offence,
seeing the indiscreet whatever comes into my head, and to judge
so rashly of things.

This way may, with reason, appear uncivil, and ill adapted to our
way of conversation; but I have never met with any who judged
it outrageous or malicious, or that took offence at my liberty,
if he had it from my own mouth; words repeated have another kind
of sound and sense. Nor do I hate any person; and I am so slow
to offend, that I cannot do it, even upon the account of
reason itself; and when occasion has required me to sentence
criminals, I have rather chosen to fail in point of justice than
to do it:

"Ut magis peccari nolim, quam satis animi ad vindicanda peccata
habeam."
["So that I had rather men should not commit faults than that I
should have sufficient courage to condemn them."---Livy,
xxxix. 21.]

Aristotle, 'tis said, was reproached for having been too merciful
to a wicked man: "I was indeed," said he, "merciful to the
man, but not to his wickedness."

Ordinary judgments exasperate themselves to punishment by
the horror of the fact: but it cools mine; the horror of the first
murder makes me fear a second; and the deformity of the first
cruelty makes me abhor all imitation of it.' That may be
applied to me, who am but a Squire of Clubs, which was said of
Charillus, king of Sparta: "He cannot be good, seeing he is not
evil even to the wicked."

Or thus--for Plutarch delivers it both these ways, as he does a
thousand other things, variously and contradictorily--"He must
needs be good, because he is so even to the wicked." Even as in
lawful actions I dislike to employ myself when for such as are
displeased at it; so, to say the truth, in unlawful things I do
not make conscience enough of employing myself when it is for
such as are willing.
Thus, instead of merely obeying an impulse to take the
tart, as an uninstructed child would, he has now become a little
thief and has had his first real moral struggle.

But it is a grim law that sensual pleasures do not last beyond
the period of gratification. If this were not so there could be
no morality in the world, and conscience would never reach any
importance. Whether we gratify sex appetite or gastric hunger,
the pleasure goes at once. True, there may be a short afterglow
of good feeling, but rarely is it strongly affective, and very
often it is replaced by a positive repulsion for the appetite. On
the other hand, to be out of conformity with your group is a
permanent pain, and the fear of being found out is an anxiety
often too great to be endured. And so our child, with the tart
gone, wishes he had not taken it, perhaps not clearly or
verbally; he is regretful, let us say. Out of this regret, out of
this fear of being found out, out of the pain of nonconformity,
arises the conscience feeling which says, "Thou shalt not" or
"Thou shalt," according to social teaching.

It may be objected that "Conscience often arrays itself against
society, against social teaching, against perhaps all men." It is
not my place to trace the growth in mind of the idea of the
Absolute Good, or absolute right and wrong, with which a man must
align himself. I believe it is the strength of the ego feeling
which gives to some the vigor and unyieldingness of their
conscience. "I am right," says such a person, "and the rest of
the world is wrong. God is with me, my conscience and future
times will agree," thus appealing to the distant tribunal as
James pointed out. All the insane hospitals have their sufferers
for conscience's sake, paranoid personalities whose egos have
expanded to infallibility and whose consciences are
correspondingly developed.

Conscience thus represents the power of the permanent purposes
and ideals of the individuals, and it wars on the less permanent
desires and impulses, because there is in memory the uneasiness
and anxiety that resulted from indulgence and the pain of the
feeling of inferiority that results when one is hiding a secret
weakness or undergoing reproof or punishment. This group of
permanent purposes, ideals and aspirations corresponds closely to
the censor of the Freudian concept and here is an example where a
new name successfully disguises an age-old thought.

In other words, conscience is social in its origin, developing
differently in different people according to their teaching,
intelligence, will, ego-feeling, instincts, etc. From the
standpoint of character analysis there are many types of people
in regard to conscience development.

In respect to the reactions to praise and blame the following
types are conspicuous:

1. A "weak" group in whom these act as apparently the sole
motives.

2. A group energized by love of praise.

3. A group energized mainly by fear of blame.

4. A type that scorns anything but material reward.

5. Another, that "takes advantage" of reward; likes praise but is
merely made conceited by it, hates blame but is merely made angry
by it, fears punishment and finds its main goad to good conduct
in this fear.

6. Then there are those in whom all these motives operate in
greater or lesser degree,--the so-called normal person. In
reality he has his special inclinations and dreads.

7. The majority of people are influenced mainly by the group with
which they have cast their positions, the blame of others being
relatively unimportant or arousing anger. For there is this great
difference between our reactions to praise and blame: that while
the praise of almost any one and for almost any quality is
welcome, the blame of only a few is taken "well," and for the
rest there is anger, contempt or defiance. The influence of blame
varies with the respect, love and especially acknowledged
superiority of the blamer. The "boss" has a right to blame and so
has father or mother while we are children, but we resent
bitterly the blame of a fellow employee; "he has no right to
blame," and we rebel against the blame of our parents when we
grow up. In fact, the war of the old and new generations starts
with the criticism of the elder folk and the resentment of the
younger folk.

It will be seen that reaction to praise and blame, etc., will
depend upon the irritability of ego feeling, the love of
superiority and the dislike for inferiority. This basic situation
we must defer discussing, but what is of importance is that the
primitive disciplinary weapons we have discussed never lose their
cardinal value and remain throughout life and in all societies
the prime modes of thought and conduct.

In similar fashion the conscience types might be depicted. From
the over-conscientious who rigidly hold themselves to an ideal,
who watch every departure from perfection with agony and
self-reproach, and who may either reach the highest level or
"break down" and become inefficient to the almost conscienceless
group, doing only what seems more profitable, are many
intermediate types merging one with the other.

There are people whose conscience is localized, as the
self-sacrificing father who is a pirate in business, or as the
policeman who holds rigidly to conscience in courage and loyalty
to his fellows, but who finds no internal reproach when he takes
a bribe or perjures himself about a criminal. What we call a code
is really a localized conscience, and there are many men whose
consciences do not permit seduction of the virgin but who are
quite easy in mind about an intrigue with a married woman. So,
too, you may be as wily as you please in business but find
cheating at cards base and unthinkable. Conscience in the
abstract may be a divine entity, but in the realities of everyday
life it is a medley of motives, purposes and teachings, varying
from the grotesque and mischief-working to the sublime and
splendid.


CHAPTER III. MEMORY AND HABIT

There are two qualities of nervous tissues (possibly of all
living tissue) that are basic in all nervous and mental
processes. They are dependent upon the modificability of nerve
cells and fibers by stimuli, e. g., a light flashing through the
pupil and passing along the optical tracts to the occipital
cortex produces changes which constitute the basis of visual
memory. Experience modifies nervous tissue in definite manner,
and SOMETHING remembers. Who remembers? Who is conscious? Believe
what you please about that, call it ego, soul, call it
consciousness dipped out of a cosmic consciousness; and I have no
quarrel with you.

Memory has its mechanics, in the association of ideas, which
preoccupied the early English psychologists and philosophers; it
is the basis of thought and also of action, and it is a prime
mystery. We know its pathology, we think that memories for speech
have loci in the brain, the so-called motor memories in Broca's
area.[1] We know that a hemorrhage in these areas or in the
fibers passing from them, or a tumor pressing on them may destroy
or temporarily abolish these memories, so that a man may KNOW
what he wishes to say, understand speech and be unable to say it,
though he may write it (motor aphasia). In sensory aphasia the
defect is a loss of the capacity to understand spoken speech,
though the patient may be able to say what he himself wishes. (It
is fair to say that the definite location of these capacities in
definite areas has been challenged by Marie, Moutier and others,
but this denial does not deny the organic brain location of
speech memories; it merely affirms that they are scattered rather
than concentrated in one area.)

[1] Foot of the left or right third frontal convolutions,
auditory speech in the supramarginal, etc.


In its widest phases memory alters with the state of the brain.
In childhood impressibility is high, but until the age or four or
five the duration of impression is low, and likewise the power of
voluntary recall. In youth (eighteen-twenty) all these capacities
are perhaps at their highest. As time goes on impressibility
seems first of all to be lost, so that it becomes harder and
harder to learn new things, to remember new faces, new names.

The typical difficulty of middle age is to remember names,
because these have no real relationship or logical value and must
be arbitrarily remembered. The typical senile defect is the
dropping out of the recent memories, though the past may be
preserved in its entirety. With any disease of the brain,
temporary or permanent, amnesia or memory loss may and usually is
present (e. g., general paresis, tumor, cerebral
arteriosclerosis, etc.). JOHNSON. 'I doubt, sir, if he would
speak to us.' Colonel M'Leod said, 'I am sure Mr Boswell
would speak to HIM.' But, seeing me a little disconcerted by his
remark, he politely added, 'and with great propriety'. Here
let me offer a short defence of that propensity in my disposition,
to which this gentleman alluded.
It has procured me much happiness. I hope it does not deserve so
hard a name as either forwardness or impudence. If I know
myself, it is nothing more than an eagerness to share the society
of men distinguished either by their rank or their talents, and
a diligence to attain what I desire.

If a man is praised for seeking knowledge, though mountains
and seas are in his way, may he not be pardoned, whose ardour,
in the pursuit of the same object, leads him to encounter
difficulties as great, though of a different kind?

After the ladies were gone from table, we talked of the highlanders
not having sheets; and this led us to consider the advantage of
wearing linen. JOHNSON. 'All animal substances are less cleanly
than vegetables. Wool, of which flannel is made, is an animal
substance; flannel therefore is not so cleanly as linen. I remember
I used to think tar dirty; but when I knew it to be only a
preparation of the juice of the pine, I thought so no longer.
It is not disagreeable to have the gum that oozes from a
plumb-tree upon your fingers, because it is vegetable, but
if you have any candle-grease, any tallow upon your fingers, you
are uneasy till you rub it off. I have often thought, that, if I
kept a seraglio, the ladies should all wear linen gowns, or cotton--I
mean stuffs made of vegetable substances.

I would have no silk; you cannot tell when it is clean: it will
be very nasty before it is perceived to be so. Linen detects its
own dirtiness.'
To hear the grave Dr Samuel Johnson, 'that majestick teacher of
moral and religious wisdom', while sitting solemn in an arm-chair
in the Isle of Sky, talk, ex cathedra, of his keeping a seraglio,
and acknowledge that the supposition had OFTEN been in his thoughts,
struck me so forcibly with ludicrous contrast, that I could not but
laugh immoderately.

He was too proud to submit, even for a moment, to be the object
of ridicule, and instantly retaliated with such keen sarcastick
wit, and such a variety of degrading images, of every one of which
I was the object, that, though I can bear such attacks as well as
most men, I yet found myself so much the sport of all the company,
that I would gladly expunge from my mind every trace of this severe
retort.

Talking of our friend Langton's house in Lincolnshire, he
said, 'the old house of the family was burnt.

A temporary building was erected in its room; and to this day they
have been always adding as the family increased. It is like a
shirt made for a man when he was a child, and enlarged always as
he grows older.'

We talked to-night of Luther's allowing the Landgrave of Hesse
two wives, and that it was with the consent of the wife to
whom he was first married. JOHNSON. 'There was no harm in
this, so far as she was only concerned, because volenti non fit
injuria.

But it was an offence against the general order of society, and
against the law of the Gospel, by which one man and one woman are
to be united. No man can have two wives, but by preventing
somebody else from having one.'

Friday, 17th September
After dinner yesterday, we had a conversation upon cunning.
M'Leod said that he was not afraid of cunning people; but would
let them play their tricks about him like monkeys. 'But,' said I,
'they scratch'; and Mr M'Queen added, 'they'll invent new
tricks, as soon as you find out what they do.'

JOHNSON. 'Cunning has effect from the credulity of others,
rather than from the abilities of those who are cunning. It
requires no extraordinary talents to lie and deceive.' This led
us to consider whether it did not require great abilities to be
very wicked.
JOHNSON. 'It requires great abilities to have the POWER of being
very wicked; but not to BE very wicked. A man who has the power,
which great abilities procure him, may use it well or ill; and
it requires more abilities to use it well, than to use it ill.
Wickedness is always easier than virtue; for it takes the short
cut to every thing.
It is much easier to steal a hundred pounds, than to get it by
labour, or any other way.

Consider only what act of wickedness requires great abilities to
commit it, when once the person who is to do it has the power;
for THERE is the distinction. It requires great abilities to
conquer an army, but none to massacre it after it is conquered.'

The weather this day was rather better than any that we had
since we came to Dunvegan. Mr M'Queen had often mentioned a
curious piece of antiquity near this which he called a temple
of the goddess Anaitis.
Having often talked of going to see it, he and I set out after
breakfast, attended by his servant, a fellow quite like a
savage. I must observe here, that in Sky there seems to be much
idleness; for men and boys follow you, as colts follow passengers
upon a road.

The usual figure of a Sky boy, is a lown with bare legs and
feet, a dirty kilt, ragged coat and waistcoat, a bare head, and
a stick in his hand, which, I suppose, is partly to help the lazy
rogue to walk, partly to serve as a kind of a defensive
weapon. We walked what is called two miles, but is probably
four, from the castle, till we came to the sacred place.

The country around is a black dreary moor on all sides, except to
the sea-coast, towards which there is a view through a valley, and
the farm of Bay shews some good land. The place itself is green
ground, being well drained, by means of a deep glen on each side,
in both of which there runs a rivulet with a good quantity of water,
forming several cascades, which make a considerable appearance and
sound.

The first thing we came to was an earthen mound, or dyke, extending
from the one precipice to the other. A little farther on,
was a strong stone-wall, not high, but very thick, extending in
the same manner.

On the outside of it were the ruins of two houses, one on each
side of the entry or gate to it.

The wall is built all along of uncemented stones, but of so large
a size as to make a very firm and durable rampart. It has
been built all about the consecrated ground, except where the
precipice is deep enough to form an enclosure of itself. The
sacred spot contains more than two acres. There are within
it the ruins of many houses, none of them large, a cairn, and
many graves marked by clusters of stones.

Mr M'Queen insisted that the ruin of a small building, standing
east and west, was actually the temple of the goddess Anaitis,
where her statue was kept, and from whence processions were
made to wash it in one of the brooks. There is, it must be owned,
a hollow road visible for a good way from the entrance; but Mr
M'Queen, with the keen eye of an antiquary, traced it much farther
than I could perceive it. There is not above a foot and a half
in height of the walls now remaining; and the whole extent of the
building was never, I imagine, greater than an ordinary Highland
house.

Mr M'Queen has collected a great deal of learning on the subject
of the temple of Anaitis; and I had endeavoured, in my journal,
to state such particulars as might give some idea of it, and
of the surrounding scenery; but from the great difficulty of
describing visible objects, I found my account so unsatisfactory,
that my readers would probably have exclaimed
And write about it, Goddess, and about it; and therefore I
have omitted it. When we got home, and were again at table with
Dr Johnson, we first talked of portraits. He agreed in thinking
them valuable in families. I wished to know which he preferred,
fine portraits, or those of which the merit was resemblance.

JOHNSON. 'Sir, their chief excellence is being like.'
BOSWELL. 'Are you of that opinion as to the portraits of ancestors,
whom one has never seen?' JOHNSON. 'It then becomes of more
consequence that they should be like; and I would have them in
the dress of the times, which makes a piece of history. One
should like to see how Rorie More looked. Truth, sir, is of the
greatest value in these things.' Mr M'Queen observed, that if
you think it of no consequence whether portraits are like, if
they are but well painted, you may be indifferent whether a
piece of history is true or not, if well told.

Dr Johnson said at breakfast to day, 'that it was but of late that
historians bestowed pains and attention in consulting
records, to attain to accuracy. Bacon, in writing his History of
Henry VII, does not seem to have consulted any, but to
have just taken what he found in other histories, and blended it
with what he learnt by tradition.'

He agreed with me that there should be a chronicle kept in every
considerable family, to preserve the characters and transactions
of successive generations.

After dinner I started the subject of the temple of Anaitis.
Mr M'Queen had laid stress on the name given to the
place by the country people, Ainnit; and added, 'I knew not
what to make of this piece of antiquity, till I met with the
Anaitidis delubrum in Lydia, mentioned by Pausanias and the
elder Pliny.' Dr Johnson, with his usual acuteness, examined
Mr M'Queen as to the meaning of the word Ainnit, in Erse; and
it proved to be a WATER-PLACE, or a place near water, 'which,'
said Mr M'Queen, 'agrees with all the descriptions of the
temples of that goddess, which were situated near rivers, that
there might be water to wash the statue'. JOHNSON. 'Nay, sir,
the argument from the name is gone. The name is exhausted by
what we see. We have no occasion to go to a distance for what we
can pick up under our feet. Had it been an accidental name, the
similarity between it and Anaitis might have had something
in it; but it turns out to be a mere physiological name.'
Macleod said, Mr M'Queen's knowledge of etymology had destroyed
his conjecture. JOHNSON. 'You have one possibility for you, and
all possibilities against you. It is possible it may be the
temple of Anaitis. But it is also possible that it may
be a fortification; or it may be a place of Christian worship,
as the first Christians often chose remote and wild places, to
make an impression on the mind; or, if it was a heathen temple,
it may have been built near a river, for the purpose of lustration;
and there is such a multitude of divinities, to whom it may have
been dedicated, that the chance of its being a temple of Anaitis
is hardly any thing.

It is like throwing a grain of sand upon the sea-shore today,
and thinking you may find it tomorrow.

No, sir, this temple, like many an ill-built edifice, tumbles down
before it is roofed in.' In his triumph over the reverend
antiquarian, he indulged himself in a conceit; for, some vestige
of the ALTAR of the goddess being much insisted on in support
of the hypothesis, he said, 'Mr M'Queen is fighting pro aris
et focis.'
It was wonderful how well time passed in a remote castle,
and in dreary weather. After supper, we talked of Pennant. It
was objected that he was superficial. Dr Johnson defended him
warmly. He said, 'Pennant has greater variety of inquiry than
almost any man, and has told us more than perhaps one in ten
thousand could have done, in the time that he took.
He has not said what he was to tell; so you cannot find fault
with him, for what he has not told. If a man comes to look for
fishes, you cannot blame him if he does not attend to fowls.'
'But,' said Colonel M'Leod, 'he mentions the unreasonable
rise of rents in the Highlands, and says, "the gentlemen are
for emptying the bag, without filling it"; for that is the phrase
he uses.

Why does he not tell how to fill it?' JOHNSON. 'Sir, there is no
end of negative criticism. He tells what he observes, and as
much as he chooses. If he tells what is not true, you may
find fault with him; but, though he tells that the land is not
well cultivated, he is not obliged to tell how it may be well
cultivated. If I tell that many of the highlanders go bare-footed,
I am not obliged to tell how they may get shoes.
Pennant tells a fact. He need go no farther, except he pleases.
He exhausts nothing; and no subject whatever has yet been exhausted.
But Pennant has surely told a great deal.

Here is a man six feet high, and you are angry because he is not
seven.' Notwithstanding this eloquent Oratio pro Pennantio,
which they who have read this gentleman's TOURS, and recollect
the Savage and the Shopkeeper at Monboddo will probably impute
to the spirit of contradiction. I still think that he had better
have given more attention to fewer things, than have thrown together
such a number of imperfect accounts.

Saturday, 18th September
Before breakfast, Dr Johnson came up to my room, to forbid me
to mention that this was his birthday; but I told him I had
done it already; at which he was displeased; I suppose from wishing
to have nothing particular done on his account. Lady M'Leod
and I got into a warm dispute. She wanted to build a house upon a
farm which she has taken, about five miles from the castle, and
to make gardens and other ornaments there; all of which I
approved of; but insisted that the seat of the family should
always be upon the rock of Dunvegan.
JOHNSON. 'Ay, in time we'll build all round this rock. You may make
a very good house at the farm; but it must not be such as to
tempt the Laird of M'Leod to go thither to reside. Most of the
great families of England have a secondary residence, which is
called a jointure-house:
let the new house be of that kind.' The lady insisted that the
rock was very inconvenient; that there was no place near it
where a good garden could be made; that it must always be the rude
place; that it was a Herculean labour to make a dinner here.

I was vexed to find the alloy of modern refinement in a lady who
had so much old family spirit. 'Madam,' said I, 'if once you quit
this rock, there is no knowing where you may settle. You
move five miles first, then to St Andrews, as the late laird
did; then to Edinburgh; and so on till you end at Hampstead,
or in France. No, no; keep to the rock: it is the very jewel of
the estate. It looks as if it had been let down from heaven by the
four corners, to be the residence of a chief. Have all the comforts
and conveniencies of life upon it, but never leave Rorie More's
cascade.' 'But,' said she, 'is it not enough if we keep it?
Must we never have more convenience than Rorie More had? He had
his beef brought to dinner in one basket, and his bread in
another. Why not as well be Rorie More all over, as live upon his
rock? And should not we tire, in looking perpetually on this
rock? It is very well for you, who have a fine place, and every
thing easy, to talk thus, and think of chaining honest folks to a
rock.

You would not live upon it yourself.' 'Yes, madam,' said I, 'I would
live upon it, were I Laird of M'Leod, and should be unhappy
if I were not upon it.' JOHNSON (with a strong voice, and most
determined manner). 'Madam, rather than quit the old rock, Boswell
would live in the pit; he would make his bed in the dungeon.' I
felt a degree of elation, at finding my resolute feudal enthusiasm
thus confirmed by such a sanction. The lady was puzzled a
little. She still returned to her pretty farm--rich ground, fine
garden. 'Madam,' said Dr Johnson, 'were they in Asia, I would not
leave the rock.' My opinion on this subject is still the same.
An ancient family residence ought to be a primary object; and
though the situation of Dunvegan be such that little can be
done here in gardening, or pleasure-ground, yet, in addition
to the veneration acquired by the lapse of time, it has many
circumstances of natural grandeur, suited to the seat of a Highland
chief: it has the sea, islands, rocks, hills, a noble cascade;
and when the family is again in opulence, something may be
done by art.

Mr Donald M'Queen went away today, in order to preach at Bracadale
next day.

We were so comfortably situated at Dunvegan, that Dr Johnson could
hardly be moved from it. I proposed to him that we should leave
it on Monday. 'No, sir,' said he, 'I will not go before Wednesday.
I will have some more of this good.' However, as the weather
was at this season so bad, and so very uncertain, and we had a
great deal to do yet, Mr M'Queen and I prevailed with him to agree
to set out on Monday, if the day should be good.

Mr M'Queen though it was inconvenient for him to be absent
from his harvest, engaged to wait on Monday at Ulinish for us.
When he was going away, Dr Johnson said, 'I shall ever
retain a great regard for you'; then asked him if he had the
Rambler. Mr M'Queen said, 'No; but my brother has it' JOHNSON.

'Have you the Idler?' M'QUEEN. 'No, sir.' JOHNSON. 'Then I
will order one for you at Edinburgh, which you will keep in
remembrance of me.'

Mr M'Queen was much pleased with this. He expressed to me, in the
strongest terms, his admiration of Dr Johnson's wonderful knowledge,
and every other quality for which he is distinguished. I asked
Mr M'Queen, if he was satisfied with being a minister in Sky. He
said he was; but he owned that his forefathers having been so
long there, and his having been born there, made a chief ingredient
in forming his contentment. I should have mentioned, that on
our left hand, between Portree and Dr Macleod's house, Mr M'Queen
told me there had been a college of the Knights Templars; that
tradition said so; and that there was a ruin remaining of their
church, which had been burnt: but I confess Dr Johnson has weakened
my belief in remote tradition.

In the dispute about Anaitis, Mr M'Queen said, Asia Minor was
peopled by Scythians, and, as they were the ancestors of the
Celts, the same religion might be in Asia Minor and Sky. JOHNSON.
'Alas! sir, what can a nation that has not letters tell of
its original? I have always difficulty to be patient when
I hear authors gravely quoted, as giving accounts of savage
nations, which accounts they had from the savages themselves.
What can the M'Craas tell about themselves a thousand years ago?
There is no tracing the connection of ancient nations, but
by language; and therefore I am always sorry when any
language is lost, because languages are the pedigree of nations.
If you find the same language in distant countries, you may
be sure that the inhabitants of each have been the same people;
that is to say, if you find the languages a good deal the
same; for a word here and there being the same, will not do.

Thus Butler, in his Hudibras, remembering that Penguin, in the
Straits of Magellan, signifies a bird with a white head, and that
the same word has, in Wales, the signification of a white-headed
wench (PEN head, and GUIN white), by way of ridicule,
concludes that the people of those Straits are Welch.'
A young gentleman of the name of M'Lean, nephew to the Laird
of the Isle of Muck, came this morning; and, just as we sat
down to dinner, came the Laird of the Isle of Muck himself, his
lady, sister to Talisker, two other ladies their relations,
and a daughter of the late M'Leod of Hamer, who wrote a
treatise on the second sight, under the designation of
Theophilus Insulanus. It was somewhat droll to hear this
laird called by his title. Muck would have founded ill; so he
was called Isle of Muck, which went off with great
readiness. The name, as now written, is unseemly, but is not
so bad in the original Erse, which is MOUACH, signifying the
Sows' Island. Buchanan calls it Insula Porcorum. It is so
called from its form.

Some call it Isle of MONK.
The laird insists that this is the proper name. It was formerly
church-land belonging to Icolmkill, and a hermit lived in it.
It is two miles long, and about three quarters of a mile broad.
The laird said, he had seven score of souls upon it. Last year
he had eighty persons inoculated, mostly children, but
some of them eighteen years of age. He agreed with the surgeon
to come and do it, at half a crown a head. It is very
fertile in corn, of which they export some; and its coasts
abound in fish. A taylor comes there six times in a year.
They get a good blacksmith from the Isle of Egg.

Sunday, 19th September
It was rather worse weather than any that we had yet.

At breakfast Dr Johnson said, 'Some cunning men choose fools
for their wives, thinking to manage them, but they always fail.

There is a spaniel fool and a mule fool. The spaniel fool may be
made to do by beating.
Curiously enough, one of the sex perversions, masturbation, has
in a few cases a similar genesis. I have known patients who, when
under the influence of depression, or humiliated in some way or
other, found a compensating pleasure in the act. Here we come to
a cardinal truth in the understanding of ourselves and our
fellows and one we shall pursue in detail later,--that face to
face with mental pain, men seek relief or pleasure or both by
alcohol, drugs, sensual pleasures of all kinds, and that the
secret explanation of all such habits is that they offer
compensation for some pain and are turned to at such times. What
one man seeks in work, another man seeks in religion, another
finds in self-flagellation, and still others seek in alcohol,
morphine, sexual excesses, etc.

With the increasing excitement and tension of our times there is
a constant search for relief, and here is the origin of much of
the smoking. Most men find in the deliberate puff, in the slow
inhalation and in the prolonged exhalation with the formation of
the white cloud of smoke, a shifting of consciousness from the
major businesses of their mind, from a constant tension to a
minor business not requiring concentration and thereby breaking
up in a pleasurable, rhythmic fashion the sense of effort. When
one is alone the fatigue and even the pain of one's thinking is
relieved by shifting the attention to the smoking. Keeping one's
attention at a high and constant pitch is apt to produce a
restless fatigue and this is often offset to the smoker by his
habit. Excessive smoking may cause "nervousness" but as a matter
of fact it is more often a means by which the excessively nervous
try to relieve themselves. Of course it is not good therapeutics
under such conditions, but I believe that in moderation smoking
does no harm and is an innocent pleasure.

Some of the pathological motor habits, such as the tics, often
have a curious background. The most common tics are snuffing,
blinking, shaking of the head, facial contortions of one kind or
another. These arise usually under exciting conditions or in the
excitable, sometimes in the acutely self-conscious. Frequently
they represent a motor outlet for this excitement; they are the
motor analogues of crying, shouting, laughing, etc. (Indeed, a
common habit is the one so frequently heard,--a little laugh when
there is no feeling of merriment and no occasion for it.) Motor
activity discharges tension and is pleasurable and these tics
furnish a momentary pleasure; they relieve a feeling that some of
the victims compare to an itch and the habit thus is based on a
seeking of relief, even though that relief is obtained in a way
that distresses the more settled purposes of the individual.

In the establishment of good habits, those desirable from the
point of view of the important issues of life, training is of
course essential. But in the training of children, certain things
must be kept in mind: the usefulness, the practical value must be
presented to the child's mind in a way he can understand, or else
various ways of energizing him to help in the formation of the
habit must be used--praise and blame, reward and punishment.
Further, these habits are not to be held holy; cleanliness and
method are desirable acquisitions but not so desirable as a
feeling of freedom to play and experiment with life and things.
If the child is constantly worried lest he get too dirty, or
fears to play in his room because he may disorder it, he is
forming the good habits of cleanliness and method but also the
worse one of worry.

In the breaking of a bad habit, its root in desire and difficulty
must be discovered. Often enough a man does not face the source
of his trouble, preferring not to. I am not at all sure that it
is best in all cases for a man to know his own weakness; in fact,
I feel convinced to the contrary in some cases. But in the
majority of difficulties, self-revelation is salutary and makes
an intelligent coping with the situation possible. Here is the
value of the good friend, the respected pastor, the wise doctor.
The human being will always need a confessor and a confidante,
and he who is struggling with a habit is in utmost need of such
help.

Shall the struggler with a bad habit break it with its thralldom?
Shall he say to his chains, "From this time, nevermore!" To some
men it is given to win the victory this way, to rise to the
heights of a stubborn resolution and to be free. But not to many
is this possible. To others there is a long history of repeated
effort and repeated failures and then--one day there comes a
feeling of power, perhaps through a great love, a great cause, a
sermon heard, a chance sentence, or a bitter experience, and
then, like a religious conversion, the tracks of the old habit
are obliterated, never to be used again.

I have in mind two men, both heavy drinkers but differing in
everything else. One was a philosopher who saw the world in that
dreadful, clear white light of which Jack London[1] spoke, that
light which leaves no cozy, pleasant obscurities, in which Truth,
the naked, is horrible to look at, when life seems too unreal,
when purposes seem most futile. At such times he would get drunk
and be happy for the time being, and afterwards find himself
bitterly repentant, though even that was a pleasure compared to
the hollow world in which his sober self dwelt. Then one day,
when all his friends had given him up as hopeless, as destined
for disaster, he read a book. "The Varieties of Religious
Experience," by William James, came to him as a clear light comes
to a man lost in the darkness; he saw himself as a "sick soul,"
obsessed with the idea that he saw life relentlessly and clearly.
There came to him the conviction that he had been arrogant, a
conceited ass, bent on ruin, "a sickly soul," he said. Out of
that realization grew resolutions that needed no vowing or
pledging, for as simply as a man turns from one road to another
he turned from his habit into healthy-minded work.

[1] Jack London's "John Barleycorn."


The other was an essentially healthy-minded man but he loved
joviality, freedom and good fellowship. Without ever knowing how
he came to it, he found himself a confirmed drinker, holding an
inferior place, passed by men of lesser caliber. He struggled
fitfully but always slipped when the next "good fellow" slapped
him on the back and invited him to have a drink. One day he
stepped out of a barroom with a group of his cronies, and though
he walked straight there was a reckless, happy feeling in him
that pushed him on to his folly. A young lady standing on a
street corner waiting for a car caught his eye. Signaling to his
companions, he walked up to her, put his arms around her and
kissed her. The girl stood as if petrified, then she pushed him
off and looked him up and down deliberately with cold scorn in
her eyes. Then she took off her glove and slapped him across the
face with it, as if disdaining to use her hand. With that she
walked away.

The man was a gentleman, and he stood there stricken. The laugh
of his companions aroused him. He saw them as if they were
himself, with a horror and disgust that made him suddenly run
away from them.

"From that moment I never again had the slightest desire for
drink. The slap sobered me for good."

While these conversions occur now and then there are certain
practical points in the breaking of a habit that need attention
in each case.

In the first place it is best in the majority of instances to
avoid the particular stimuli and associations that set off the
habit. The stimulus is a kind of trigger; pull it and the habit
can hardly be checked. Whatever the situation is that acts as the
temptation, avoid it. Not for nothing do men pray, "Lead us not
into temptation." The will needs no such exercise and rarely
stands up well against such strain. This may mean a removal for
the time being from the source of temptation, a flying away to
gain strength.

Further, a substitution of habit, of purpose, is necessary. Some
line of activities must be selected to fill in the vacuum. A
hobby is needed, a devotion to some larger purpose, whether it be
in work or social activity. "Nature abhors a vacuum"; boredom
must be avoided, for that is a pain, awakening desire. The
gymnasium, golf, sports of all kinds are substitute pleasures of
great value.

Third, harness a friend, a superior or a respected equal to the
yoke with you. Pull double harness; let him lend his strength to
yours. Throw away pride; confess and receive new energy from his
sympathy and wisdom. If you are lucky enough to have such a
friend, or some wise counselor, thank God for him. For here is
where the true friend finds his highest value.

In the analysis of any character the question of the kind of
habits formed demands attention. Since almost all traits become
matters of habit, such an inquiry would sooner or later lead to a
catalogue of qualities. What is here pertinent is this,--that one
might inquire into the kind of habits that are easily formed by
the individual and the kind that are not. Habits fall into groups
such as these:

1. Relating to care of the body: cleanliness, diet, exercise,
bowel function, sleep. Here we learn about personal tidiness or
the reverse, foppery, dandyism, gluttony, asceticism, etc.

2. Relating to method, efficiency, neatness in work: some people
find it almost impossible to become methodical or neat; others
become obsessed by these qualities to the exclusion of mobility.

3. Relating to the pursuit of pleasure: type of pleasure sought,
time given to it, hobbies.

4. Relating to special habits: alcohol, tobacco, drugs, sex
perversions.

5. Relating to study and advancement: love of books, attendance
at lectures.

Especially in the study of children is some such scheme
essential, for then one gets a definite idea of their defects and
takes definite efforts to make habitual the desired practice, or
else one sees the special trend, and, if it is good, fosters it.
This, of course, is the long and short of character development.


CHAPTER IV. STIMULATION, INHIBITION, ORGANIZING ENERGY, CHOICE
AND CONSCIOUSNESS

There are three fundamental factors in the relation of any
organism to the environment and in the relation of the various
parts of an organism to each other which we must now consider. To
consider a living thing of any kind as something separate from
the stimuli the world streams in on it, or to consider it as a
real unit, is a mistake that falsifies most of the thinking of
the world.

On us, as living things, the universe pours in stimuli of a few
kinds. Or rather there are few kinds of stimuli we are
specialized to receive and react to; there may be innumerable
other kinds to which we cannot react because they do not reach
us. The world for us is a collection of things that we see, hear,
smell, taste and feel, but there may be vast reaches of things
for which we have no avenues of approach,--completely
unimaginable things because our images are built upon our senses.

To some of the stimuli the world pours in on us we must react
properly or die. Certain "mechanisms" with which we are equipped
must respond to these stimuli or the forces of the world destroy
us. A lion on the horizon must awaken flight, or concealment, or
the modified fight reaction of using weapons; extreme cold or
heat must start up impulses and reflexes leading away from their
disintegrating effects. Food must, when smelled or seen, lead us
to conduct whereby we supply ourselves or we die from hunger.
Dangers and needs awaken reactions, both through instinctive
responses and through intelligence. The main activities of life
are to be classed as "averting" and "acquiring," for if life
showers us with the things we would or need to have, it also
pelts us with the things we fear, hate or despise. It would be
interesting to know which activities are the most numerous;
presumably the lucky or successful man is busy acquiring while
the unlucky or unsuccessful finds himself busiest averting. The
averting activities are directed largely against the
disagreeable, disgusting, dangerous and the undesired; the
acquiring activities are directed toward the pleasant, the
necessary, the desired. The problems of life are to know what is
really good or bad for us and how to acquire the one and avert
the other. While there are certain things that "naturally"[1] are
deemed good or bad, there are more that are so regarded through
training and education. Morality and Taste are alike concerned
with bringing about attitudes that will determine the "right"
response to the stimuli of the world.

[1] I place in quotations NATURALLY because it is difficult to
know what is "natural" and what is cultural. In the widest sense
everything is natural; in the narrowest very few things are
natural. Cooked food, clothing, houses, marriages, education,
etc., are not found in a state of nature, any more than clocks
and plays by Ibsen are. Our judgment as to what is good and bad
is mainly instinctive leaning directed or smothered by education.


The stimuli that thus pour in upon the individual, and to which
he must react, must find an organism ready to respond in some way
or other. A sleeping man naturally does not adjust himself to
danger, nor does a paralyzed man fly. The most attractive female
in the world causes no response in the very young male child and
perhaps stirs only reminiscences in the aged. Food, which causes
the saliva to flow in the mouth of the hungry, may disgust the
full. Throughout life there are factors in the internal life of
the organism instantly changing one's reaction to things of
physical, mental and moral significance. He talks loudest of
restraint and control who has no desire; and in satiation even
the sinner sees the beauty of asceticism. There must be a
coincidence of stimulus, readiness and opportunity for the full,
successful response to take place.[1]

[1] A slang epigram puts it better: The time, the place, and the
girl.


The simplest response to any stimulus from the outer world is the
reflex act. Theoretically a reflex act is dependent upon the
interaction of a sensory surface, a sensory nerve cell, a motor
nerve cell and a muscle, i. e., a receptive apparatus and a motor
apparatus in such close union that the will and intelligence play
no part. Thus if one puts his finger on a hot stove he withdraws
it immediately, and such responses are present even in the
decapitated frog and human for a short time. So if light streams
in on the wide-open pupil of the eye, it contracts, grows
smaller, without any effort of the will, and in fact entirely
without the consciousness of the individual. Swallowing is a
series of reflexes in a row, so that food in the back part of the
mouth sets a reflex going that carries it beyond the epiglottis;
another reflex carries it to the esophagus and then one reflex
after the other transports the food the rest of the way. Except
for the first effort of swallowing, the rest is entirely
involuntary and even unconscious. Those readers who are
interested would do well to read the work of Pavlow on the
conditioned reflex, in which the great Russian physiologist
builds up all action on a basis of a modification of the
primitive reflex which he calls the "conditioned reflex."[1]

[1] Pavlow is one of the scientists who regard all mental life as
built up out of reflexes. The immediate reflex is only one
variety; thought, emotion, etc., are merely reflexes placed end
to end. Pavlow divides action into two trends, one due to an
unconditioned reflex, of innate structure, and the other a
modified or conditioned reflex which arises because some stimulus
has become associated with the reflex act. Thus saliva dripping
from a dog's mouth at the smell of food is an unconditioned
reflex; if a bell is heard at the same time the food is smelled
then in the course of time the saliva flows at the sound of the
bell alone,--a conditioned reflex. A very complex system has been
built up of this kind of facts, which I have criticized
elsewhere.


The simple reflex, immediate response to a stimulus, has only a
limited field in human life or adult life. Sherrington points out
in his notable book, "The Integrative Action of the Nervous
System," that there is a play of the entire organism on each
responding element, and there is also a competition throughout
each pathway to action. Let us examine this a little closer.

A man is hungry, let us say; i. e., there arise from his
gastro-intestinal tract and from the tissues stimuli which arouse
motor mechanisms to action and the man seeks food. The need of
the body arouses desire in the form of an organic sensation and
this arouses mechanisms whose function is to satisfy that desire.
Let us assume that he finds something that looks good and he is
about to seize it when an odor, called disagreeable, assails his
nostrils from the food, which stops him. Then there arises a
competition for action between the desire for food and the visual
stimulus, associated memories, etc., on the one hand, and the
odor, the awakened fear, memories, disgust, etc., on the other
hand. This struggle for action, for use of the mechanisms of
action, is the struggling of choosing, one of the fundamental
phenomena of life. In order for a choice to become manifest, what
is known as inhibition must come into play; an impulse to action
must be checked in order that an opposing action can be
effective. The movement of rejection uses muscles that oppose the
movement of acquirement; e. g., one uses the triceps and the
other the biceps, muscles situated in opposite sides of the upper
arm and having antagonistic action. In order for triceps to act,
biceps must be inhibited from action, and in that inhibition is a
fundamental function of the organism. In every function of the
body there are opposing groups of forces; for every dilator there
is a contractor, for every accelerator of action there is
inhibition. Nature drives by two reins, and one is a checkrein.

This function of inhibition, then, delays, retards or prevents an
action and is in one sense a higher function than the response to
stimulation. Its main seat is the cerebrum, the "highest" nervous
tissue, whereas reflex and instinctive actions usually are in the
vegetative nervous system, the spinal cord, the bulbar regions
and the mid-brain, all of which are lower centers. Choice, which
is intimately associated with inhibition, is par excellence a
cerebral function and in general is associated with intense
consciousness. The act of choosing brings to the circumstances
the whole past history of the individual; it marshals his
resources of judgment, intelligence, will, purposes and desires.
In choice lies the fate of the personality, for it is basically
related to habit formation. Further, in the dynamics of life a
right, proper choice, an appropriate choice, opens wide the door
of opportunity, whereas an unfortunate choice may commit one to
the mercies of wrecking forces. Education should aim to teach
proper choosing and then proper action.

The capacity for perceiving and responding to stimuli, for
inhibiting or delaying action and for choosing, are of cardinal
importance in our study. But there is another phase of life and
character without which everything else lacks unity and is
unintelligible. From the beginning of life to the end there is
choice. Who and what chooses? From infancy one sees the war of
purposes and desires and the gradual rise of one purpose or set
of purposes into dominance,--in short, the growth of unity, the
growth of personality. The common man calls this unity his soul,
the philosopher speaks of the ego and implies some such thing as
this organizing energy of character.

But a naturalistic view of character must reject such a
metaphysical entity, for one sees the organizing energy increase
and diminish with the rest of character through health, age,
environment, etc. Further, there is at work in all living things
a similar something that organizes the action of the humblest bit
of protoplasm. This organizing energy of character will be, for
us, that something inherent in all life which tends to
individualize each living thing. It is as if all life were
originally of one piece and then, spreading itself throughout the
world, it tended to differentiate and develop (according to the
Spencerian formula) into genera, species, groups and individuals.
This organizing energy works up the experiences of the individual
so that new formulae for action develop, so that what is
experienced becomes the basis of future reaction.

It must be remembered that the world we live in has its great
habits. Night follows day in a cycle that never fails, the
seasons are repeated each year, and there is a periodicity in the
lives of plants and animals that is manifested in growth,
nutrition, mating and resting. Things happen again and again,
though in slightly altered form, and our desires, satisfied now,
soon repeat their urge. The great organic needs and sensations
repeat themselves and with the periodic world of outer experience
must be dealt with according to a more or less settled policy. It
is the organizing energy that works out the policy, that learns,
inhibits, chooses and acts,--and it is the essential
character-developing principle. For like our bodily organs which
are whipped into line by the nervous system, our impulses,
instincts, and reflexes[1] have their own policy of action and
therefore need, for the good of the entire organism, discipline
and coordination. It may sound as if the body were made up of
warring entities and states and that there gradually arose a
centralized good, and though the analogy may lead to error, it
offers a convenient method of thinking.

[1] Roux, the great French biologist, has shown that each tissue
and each cell competes with the other tissues and the other
cells. The organism, though it reaches a practical working unity
as viewed by consciousness, is nevertheless no entity; it is a
collection, an aggregate of living cells which are organized on a
cooperation basis just as men are, but maintain individuality and
competition nevertheless.


Moreover, the organizing energy seems often to be at work when
consciousness itself is at rest, as in sleep. Often enough a man
debates and debates on lines of conduct and wakes up with his
problem solved. Or he works hard to learn and goes to bed
discouraged, because the matter is a jumble, and wakes up in the
morning with an orderly and useful arrangement of the facts. A
writer seeks to find the proper opening,--and gives up in a
frenzy of despair. He is perhaps walking or driving when suddenly
he lifts his head as one does who is listening to a longed-for
voice, and in himself he finds the phrases that he longs for.
Something within has set itself, so it seems, the task of
bringing the right associations into consciousness. What we call
quickness of mind, energy of mind, is largely this function.

It is this which adapts us to different situations, different
groups, by calling into play organized modes of talking or
acting. We pass from a group of ladies in whose presence we have
been friendly but decorous, perhaps unconventionally formal, to a
group of business intimates, men of long acquaintance. Without
even being conscious of it we lounge around, feet on the table,
carelessly dropping cigarette ash to the floor, using language
chosen for force rather than elegance; we discuss sports, women,
business and a whole group of different emotions, habits and
purposes come to the surface, though we were not at all conscious
of having repressed them while in the presence of the ladies. A
faux pas is where the organizer has "slipped" on his job; lack of
tact implies in part a rigid organizing energy, neither plastic
nor versatile enough.

We are now ready to face certain developments of these three main
factors, viz., the response to stimuli; choice and inhibition,
and the organizing energy. Largely we might classify people
according to the type of vigor of their reactions to stimuli, the
quality and vigor of choice and of inhibition, and the quality
and vigor of the organizing energy. We note that there are people
who have, as it were, exquisitely sensitive feelers for the
stimuli of one kind or another and who react vigorously, perhaps
excessively; that there are others of a duller, less reactive
nature, largely because they are stimuli-proof. Others are
under-inhibited, follow desire or outer stimulus without heed,
without a brake; others are over-inhibited, too cautious, too
full of doubt, unable to choose the reaction that seems
appropriate. The organizing energy of some is low; they never
seem to unify their experiences into a code of life and living;
they are like a string of beads loosely strung together with
disharmonious emotions, desires, purposes. In others this energy
is high, they chew the cud of every experience and (to change the
metaphor) they weld life's happenings, their memories, their
emotions and purposes into a more unified ego, a real I,
harmonious, self-enlightened; clearly conscious of aim and end
and striving bravely towards it. Or there is over-unification and
fanaticism, with narrow aim and little sympathy for other aims.
Sketched in this very broad way we see masses of people, rather
than individuals, and we are not finely adjusted to our subject.

Psychologists rarely concern themselves to any extent with these
matters; they deal mainly with their outgrowths,--emotions,
instinct, intelligence and will. We are at once beset with
difficulties which are resolved mainly by ignoring them. In such
a book as this we are not concerned with the fundamental nature
of these divisions of the mental life, we must omit such
questions as the relation of instinct to racial habit, or the
evolution of instinct from habit, if that is really its origin.
Again I must repeat that we shall deal with these as organic, as
arising in the sensitized individual as a result of environmental
forces, as manifestations of a life which is as yet--and perhaps
always will be--mysterious to us. We shall best consider these
manifestations of mental activity as an interplay of the
reactions of stimulation, inhibition, choice, organizing energy,
and not as separate and totally different matters. We shall see
that probably emotion is one aspect of reaction to the world,
while instinct is merely another aspect; that intelligence is a
cerebral shift of instinct, and that will is no unity but the
energy of instincts and purposes.

We shall see that island fully, and then visit some more of the
Hebrides; after which we are to land in Argyleshire, proceed by
Glasgow to Auchinleck, repose there a competent time, and then
return to Edinburgh, from whence the Rambler will depart for
old England again, as soon as he finds it convenient. Hitherto
we have had a very prosperous expedition. I flatter myself
servetur ad imum, qualis ab incepto processerit. He is
in excellent spirits, and I have a rich Journal of his conversation.
Look back, Davy, [Footnote: I took the liberty of
giving this familiar appellation to my celebrated friend, to bring
in a more lively manner to his remembrance the period when he was
Dr Johnson's pupil.] to Litchfield; run up through the time
that has elapsed since you first knew Mr Johnson, and enjoy with
me his present extraordinary tour. I could not resist the
impulse of writing to you from this place. The situation of the
old castle corresponds exactly to Shakspeare's description. While
we were there to-day, it happened oddly, that a raven
perched upon one of the chimney-tops, and croaked. Then I
in my turn repeated,
'The raven himself is hoarse.

That croaks the fatal entrance of Duncan, Under my battlements.'

I wish you had been with us. Think what enthusiastick happiness I
shall have to see Mr Samuel Johnson walking among the romantick
rocks and woods of my ancestors at Auchinleck! Write to me at
Edinburgh. You owe me his verses on great George and tuneful
Cibber, and the bad verses which led him to make his fine ones
on Philips the musician.
Keep your promise, and let me have them. I offer my very best
compliments to Mrs Garrick, and ever am
Your warm admirer and friend, JAMES BOSWELL.

To David Garrick, Esq; London.

His answer was as follows.

Hampton, September 14, 1773, Dear Sir,
You stole away from London, and left us all in the lurch; for we
expected you one night at the club, and knew nothing of your
departure. Had I payed you what I owed you, for the book you
bought for me, I should only have grieved for the loss of your
company, and slept with a quiet conscience; but, wounded as it
is, it must remain so till I see you again, though I am sure our
good friend Mr Johnson will discharge the debt for me, if you
will let him. Your account of your journey to Fores, the RAVEN,
OLD CASTLE, &c. &c. made me half mad. Are you not rather too
late in the year for fine weather, which is the life and
soul of seeing places? I hope your pleasure will continue
qualis ab incepto, &c.

Your friend---[Footnote: I have suppressed my Mend's name
from an apprehension of wounding his sensibility; but I would not
withhold from my readers a passage which shews Mr Gamck's mode of
writing as the Manager of a Theatre, and contains a pleasing trait
of his domestick life.

His judgment of dramatick pieces, so far as concerns their
exhibition on the stage, must be allowed to have considerable
weight. But from the effect which a perusal of the tragedy here
condemned had upon myself, and from the opinions of some eminent
criticks.

I venture to pronounce that it has much poetical merit; and Its
author has distinguished himself by several performances which
shew that the epithet poetaster was, in the present
Instance, much misapplied.] threatens me much. I only wish that
he would put his threats in execution, and, if he prints his play,
I will forgive him.
I remember he complained to you, that his bookseller called
for the money for some copies of his--, which I
subscribed for, and that I desired him to call again. The truth
is, that my wife was not at home, and that for weeks together I
have not ten shillings in my pocket.
However, had it been otherwise, it was not so great a crime to
draw his poetical vengeance upon me.

I despise all that he can do, and am glad that I can
so easily get rid of him and his ingratitude. I am hardened
both to abuse and ingratitude.

You, I am sure, will no more recommend your poetasters to my
civility and good offices.

Shall I recommend to you a play of Eschylus (the Prometheus),
published and translated by poor old Morel], who is a good scholar,
and an acquaintance of mine. It will be but half a guinea, and
your name shall be put in the list I am making for him. You
will be in very good company.

Now for the Epitaphs!

(These, together with the verses on George the Second, and Colley
Gibber, as his Poet Laureat, of which imperfect copies are
gone about, will appear in my Life of Dr Johnson.)
I have no more paper, or I should have said more to you. My
love and respects to Mr Johnson.

Yours ever, D. GARRICK.
I can't write. I have the gout in my hand.

To James Boswell, Esq., Edinburgh.

Sunday, 24th October
We passed the forenoon calmly and placidly. I prevailed on Dr
Johnson to read aloud Ogden's sixth sermon on prayer, which he
did with a distinct expression, and pleasing solemnity. He praised
my favourite preacher, his elegant language, and remarkable
acuteness; and said, he fought infidels with their own weapons.

As a specimen of Ogden's manner, I insert the following passage
from the sermon which Dr Johnson now read. The preacher, after
arguing against that vain philosophy which maintains, in conformity
with the hard principle of eternal necessity, or unchangeable
predetermination, that the only effect of prayer for others,
although we are exhorted to pray for them, is to produce
good dispositions in ourselves towards them; thus expresses
himself:

A plain man may be apt to ask, But if this then, though enjoined
in the holy Scriptures, is to be my real aim and intention, when I
am taught to pray for other persons, why is it that I do not plainly
so express it?

Why is not the form of the petition brought nearer to the meaning?
Give them, say I to our heavenly father, what is good. But this,
I am to understand, will be as it will be, and is not for me
to alter. What is it then that I am doing? I am desiring
to become charitable myself; and why may I not plainly say so?
Is there shame in it, or impiety? The wish is laudable: why
should I form designs to hide it?

Or is it, perhaps, better to be brought about by indirect means,
and in this artful manner? Alas! who is it that I would impose on?
From whom can it be, in this commerce, that I desire to hide any
thing?

When, as my Saviour commands me, I have 'entered into my closet,
and shut my door', there are but two parties privy to my
devotions, God and my own heart; which of the two am I
deceiving?

He wished to have more books, and, upon inquiring if there were any
in the house, was told that a waiter had some, which were brought
to him; but I recollect none of them, except Hervey's Meditations.
He thought slightingly of this admired book. He treated it with
ridicule, and would not allow even the scene of the dying husband
and father to be pathetick. I am not an impartial judge; for
Hervey's Meditations engaged my affections in my early
years. He read a passage concerning the moon, ludicrously, and
shewed how easily he could, in the same style, make reflections
on that planet, the very reverse of Hervey's, representing
her as treacherous to mankind. He did this with much humour;
but I have not preserved the particulars. He then indulged a
playful fancy, in making a Meditation on a Pudding, of which I
hastily wrote down, in his presence, the following note; which,
though imperfect, may serve to give my readers some idea of
it.

MEDITATION ON A PUDDING
Let us seriously reflect of what a pudding is composed. It is
composed of flour that once waved in the golden grain, and drank
the dews of the morning; of milk pressed from the swelling udder
by the gentle hand of the beauteous milk-maid, whose beauty and
innocence might have recommended a worse draught; who,
while she stroked the udder, indulged no ambitious thoughts
of wandering in palaces, formed no plans for the destruction of
her fellow-creatures: milk, which is drawn from the cow, that
useful animal, that eats the grass of the field, and supplies
us with that which made the greatest part of the food
of mankind in the age which the poets have agreed to call
golden.
It is made with an egg, that miracle of nature, which the theoretical
Burnet has compared to creation.

An egg contains water within its beautiful smooth surface; and an
unformed mass, by the incubation of the parent, becomes a regular
animal, furnished with bones and sinews, and covered with feathers.
Let us consider; can there be more wanting to complete the Meditation
on a Pudding?

If more is wanting, more may be found. It contains salt,
which keeps the sea from putrefaction:
salt, which is made the image of intellectual
excellence, contributes to the formation of a pudding.

In a magazine I found a saying of Dr Johnson's, something to
this purpose; that the happiest part of a man's life is what he
passes lying awake in bed in the morning. I read it to him.
He said, 'I may, perhaps, have said this; for nobody, at
times, talks more laxly than I do.' I ventured to suggest to
him, that this was dangerous from one of his authority.

I spoke of living in the country, and upon what footing
one should be with neighbours. I observed that some people were
afraid of being on too easy a footing with them, from an
apprehension that their time would not be their own. He made the
obvious remark, that it depended much on what kind of neighbours
one has, whether it was desirable to be on an easy footing with
them, or not. I mentioned a certain baronet, who told me, he
never was happy in the country, till he was not on speaking
terms with his neighbours, which he contrived in different ways
to bring about. 'Lord ---', said he, 'stuck along; but at last
the fellow pounded my pigs, and then I got rid of him.'
JOHNSON. 'Nay, sir, My Lord got rid of Sir John, and shewed how
little he valued him, by putting his pigs in the pound.'
I told Dr Johnson I was in some difficulty how to act at Inveraray.

I had reason to think that the Duchess of Argyle disliked me, on
account of my zeal in the Douglas cause; but the Duke of Argyle
had always been pleased to treat me with great civility.
They were now at the castle, which is a very short walk from our
inn; and the question was, whether I should go and pay my
respects there. Dr Johnson, to whom I had stated the case,
was clear that I ought; but, in his usual way, he was very shy
of discovering a desire to be invited there himself.
Though from a conviction of the benefit of subordination to society,
he has always shewn great respect to persons of high rank, when
he happened to be in their company, yet his pride of character has
ever made him guard against any appearance of courting the great.

Besides, he was impatient to go to Glasgow, where he expected
letters. At the same time he was, I believe, secretly not
unwilling to have attention paid him by so great a chieftain, and
so exalted a nobleman. He insisted that I should not go to the
castle this day before dinner, as it would look like seeking an
invitation. 'But,' said I, 'if the duke invites us to dine with
him to-morrow, shall we accept?' 'Yes, sir,' I think he said,
'to be sure.' But, he added, 'He won't ask us!' I mentioned,
that I was afraid my company might be disagreeable to the duchess.
He treated this objection with a manly disdain: 'THAT, sir,
he must settle with his wife.' We dined well. I went to the
castle just about the time when I supposed the ladies would be
retired from dinner.

I sent in my name; and, being shewn in, found the amiable duke
sitting at the head of his table with several gentlemen.

I was most politely received, and gave his grace some particulars
of the curious journey which I had been making with Dr Johnson.
When we rose from table, the duke said to me, 'I hope you
and Dr Johnson will dine with us to-morrow.' I thanked his grace;
but told him, my friend was in a great hurry to get back to London.
The duke, with a kind complacency, said, 'He will stay one day;
and I will take care he shall see this place to advantage.' I
said, I should be sure to let him know his grace's invitation.
As I was going away, the duke said, 'Mr Boswell, won't you
have some tea?' I thought it best to get over the meeting
with the duchess this night; so respectfully agreed. I was
conducted to the drawing-room by the duke, who announced my name;
but the duchess, who was sitting with her daughter, Lady Betty
Hamilton, and some other ladies, took not the least notice of me.

I should have been mortified at being thus coldly received by
a lady of whom I, with the rest of the world, have always entertained
a very high admiration, had I not been consoled by the
obliging attention of the duke.

When I returned to the inn, I informed Dr Johnson of the Duke
of Argyle's invitation, with which he was much pleased, and
readily accepted of it. We talked of a violent contest which was
then carrying on, with a view to the next general
election for Ayrshire; where one of the candidates, in order
to undermine the old and established interest, had artfully held
himself out as a champion for the independency of the county
against aristocratick influence, and had persuaded several gentlemen
into a resolution to oppose every candidate who was supported
by peers. 'Foolish fellows!' said Dr Johnson. 'Didn't they
see that they are as much dependent upon the peers one way
as the other. The peers have but to OPPOSE a candidate, to ensure
him success. It is said, the only way to make a pig go forward,
is to pull him back by the tail. These people must be treated
like pigs.'

Monday, 25th October
My acquaintance, the Reverend Mr John M'Aulay, one of the
ministers of Inveraray, and brother to our good friend at
Calder, came to us this morning, and accompanied us to the
castle, where I presented Dr Johnson to the Duke of Argyle. We
were shewn through the house; and I never shall forget the impression
made upon my fancy by some of the ladies' maids tripping about in
neat morning dresses.

After seeing for a long time little but rusticity, their lively
manner, and gay inviting appearance, pleased me so much, that I
thought, for the moment, I could have been a knight-errant
for them. [Footnote: On reflection, at the distance of several
years, I wonder that my venerable fellow-traveller should have
read this passage without censuring my levity.]

We then got into a low one-horse chair, ordered for us
by the duke, in which we drove about the place. Dr Johnson was
much struck by the grandeur and elegance of this princely seat.
He thought, however, the castle too low, and wished it had been
a story higher. He said, 'What I admire here, is the total defiance
of expence.' I had a particular pride in shewing him a great
number of fine old trees, to compensate for the nakedness which
had made such an impression on him on the eastern coast of
Scotland.

When we came in, before dinner, we found the duke and some gentlemen
in the hall. Dr Johnson took much notice of the large
collection of arms, which are excellently disposed there. I
told what he had said to Sir Alexander McDonald, of his
ancestors not suffering their arms to rust. 'Well,' said the
doctor, 'but let us be glad we live in times when arms MAY rust.
We can sit to-day at his grace's table, without any risk of
being attacked, and perhaps sitting down again wounded or maimed.'
The duke placed Dr Johnson next himself at table. I was in
fine spirits; and though sensible that I had the misfortune of
not being in favour with the duchess, I was not in the least
disconcerted, and offered her grace some of the dish that was before
me.

It must be owned that I was in the right to be quite unconcerned,
if I could. I was the Duke of Argyle's guest; and I had no reason
to suppose that he adopted the prejudices and resentments
of the Duchess of Hamilton.

I knew it was the rule of modern high life not to drink to any
body; but, that I might have the satisfaction for once to look
the duchess in the face, with a glass in my hand, I with a
respectful air addressed her, 'My Lady Duchess, I have the honour
to drink your grace's good health.' I repeated the words audibly,
and with a steady countenance. This was, perhaps, rather
too much; but some allowance must be made for human feelings.

The duchess was very attentive to Dr Johnson. I know not how a
middle state came to be mentioned. Her grace wished to hear
him on that point. 'Madam,' said he, 'your own relation, Mr
Archibald Campbell, can tell you better about it than I can. He
was a bishop of the nonjuring communion, and wrote a book
upon the subject.' [Footnote: As this book is now
become very scarce, I shall subjoin the title, which is
curious:

'The Doctrines of a Middle State between Death and the
Resurrection:

Of Prayers for the Dead: And the Necessity of Purification:
plainly proved from the holy Scriptures, and the Writings
of the Fathers of the Primitive Church: And acknowledged
by several learned Fathers and great Divines of the Church of
England and others since the Reformation. To which is added, an
Appendix concerning the Descent of the Soul of Christ into
Hell, while his Body lay in the Grave.
Together with the Judgment of the Reverend Dr Hickes concerning
this Book, so far as relates to a Middle State, particular Judgment,
and Prayers for the Dead as it appeared in the first Edition.
And a Manuscript of the Right Reverend Bishop Overall upon the
Subject of a Middle State, and never before printed. Also, a
Preservative against several of the Errors of the Roman
Church, in six small Treatises. By the Honourable Archibald
Campbell.' Folio, 1721.]

He engaged to get it for her grace. He afterwards gave a full
history of Mr Archibald Campbell, which I am sorry I do
not recollect particularly. He said, Mr Campbell had been bred
a violent Whig, but afterwards 'kept BETTER COMPANY, and became a
Tory'. He said this with a smile, in pleasant allusion, as I
thought, to the opposition between his own political principles
and those of the duke's clan. He added that Mr Campbell, after the
Revolution, was thrown in gaol on account of his tenets; but, on
application by letter to the old Lord Townshend, was
released:
that he always spoke of his Lordship with great gratitude, saying,
'though a WHIG, he had humanity'.

Dr Johnson and I passed some time together, in June 1784, at Pembroke
College, Oxford, with the Reverend Dr Adams, the master, and I
having expressed a regret that my note relative to Mr Archibald
Campbell was imperfect, he was then so good as to write with his
own hand, on the blank page of my Journal, opposite to that which
contains what I have now mentioned, the following paragraph; which,
however, is not quite so full as the narrative he gave at Inveraray:
The Honourable Archibald Campbell was, I believe, the nephew of the
Marquis of Argyle.

He began life by engaging in Monmouth's rebellion, and, to
escape the law, lived some time in Surinam. When he returned,
he became zealous for episcopacy and monarchy; and at the Revolution
adhered not only to the Nonjurors, but to those who refused to
communicate with the Church of England, or to be present at any
worship where the usurper was mentioned as king. He was, I believe,
more than once apprehended in the reign of King William, and
once at the accession of George. He was the familiar friend
of Hicks and Nelson; a man of letters, but injudicious; and very
curious and inquisitive, but credulous.

He lived in 1743, or 44, about 75 years old.

The subject of luxury having been introduced, Dr Johnson defended
it.
'We have now,' said he, 'a splendid dinner before us. Which of
all these dishes is unwholsome?'

The duke asserted, that he had observed the grandees of Spain
diminished in their size by luxury.

Dr Johnson politely refrained from opposing directly an observation
which the duke himself had made; but said, 'Man must be very
different from other animals, if he is diminished by good living;
for the size of all other animals is increased by it.' I made
some remark that seemed to imply a belief in second sight.
The duchess said, 'I fancy you will be a METHODIST.' This
was the only sentence her grace deigned to utter to me; and
I take it for granted, she thought it a good hit on my CREDULITY
in the Douglas cause.

A gentleman in company, after dinner, was desired by the
duke to go to another room, for a specimen of curious marble, which
his grace wished to shew us. He brought a wrong piece, upon which
the duke sent him back again. He could not refuse;
but, to avoid any appearance of servility, he whistled
as he walked out of the room, to show his independency. On my
mentioning this afterwards to Dr Johnson, he said, it was a nice
trait of character.

Dr Johnson talked a great deal, and was so entertaining, that Lady
Betty Hamilton, after dinner, went and placed her chair
close to his, leaned upon the back of it, and listened eagerly.
It would have made a fine picture to have drawn the Sage and
her at this time in their several attitudes. He did not know,
all the while, how much he was honoured. I told him afterwards.
I never saw him so gentle and complaisant as this day.

We went to tea. The duke and I walked up and down the drawing-room,
conversing. The duchess still continued to shew the same marked
coldness for me; for which, though I suffered from it, I made
every allowance, considering the very warm part that I had taken
for Douglas, cause in which she thought her son deeply interested.

Had not her grace discovered some displeasure towards me, I
should have suspected her of insensibility or dissimulation.

Her grace made Dr Johnson come and sit by her, and asked him why
he made his journey so late in the year. 'Why, madam,' said he,
'you know Mr Boswell must attend the Court of Session, and it does
not rise till the twelfth of August.' She said, with some
sharpness, 'I KNOW NOTHING of Mr Boswell.' Poor Lady Lucy
Douglas, to whom I mentioned this, observed, 'She knew TOO
MUCH of Mr Boswell.' I shall make no remark on her grace's speech.
I indeed felt it as rather too severe; but when I recollected
that my punishment was inflicted by so dignified a beauty, I had
that kind of consolation which a man would feel who is strangled
by a SILKEN CORD. Dr Johnson was all attention to her grace. He
used afterwards a droll expression, upon her enjoying the three
titles of Hamilton, Brandon, and Argyle. Borrowing an image from
the Turkish empire, he called her a 'Duchess with three tails'.
He was much pleased with our visit at the castle of Inveraray. The
Duke of Argyle was exceedingly polite to him, and, upon his complaining
of the shelties which he had hitherto ridden being too small for
him, his grace told him he should be provided with a good horse to
carry him next day.
Mr John M'Aulay passed the evening with us at our inn. When Dr
Johnson spoke of people whose principles were good, but whose
practice was faulty, Mr M'Aulay said, he had no notion of people
being in earnest in their good professions, whose practice was not
suitable to them.
The Doctor grew warm, and said, 'Sir, you are so grossly ignorant
of human nature, as not to know that a man may be very sincere in
good principles, without having good practice?'
Dr Johnson was unquestionably in the right; and whoever examines
himself candidly, will be satisfied of it, though the inconsistency
between principles and practice is greater in some men than in
others.
I recollect very little of this night's conversation. I am sorry
that indolence came upon me towards the conclusion of our journey,
so that I did not write down what passed with the same assiduity
as during the greatest part of it.

Tuesday, 26th October
Mr M'Aulay breakfasted with us, nothing hurt or dismayed by his
last night's correction.Nothing is ever
forgotten, according to Freud, and the reason our childhood is
not voluntarily remembered is because it is full of forbidden
desires and curiosities and the developing censor thrusts it all
into the subconsciousness, where it continues to make trouble all
the rest of the individual's life. In fact, a cardinal part of
Freudianism (which he and his followers are lately modifying) is
that it is the results of the "psychic traumata" (psychical
injuries) of infancy and childhood that cause the hysteria of the
adult; and these psychical traumata are largely (about ninety-
nine per cent.) sexual.

4. Freudianism has borrowed the time-honored dictum that every
sensation has a natural result in action and has elaborated it
into the statement that every affective state, every desire and
craving of whatever sort, needs a motor discharge, an avenue of
outlet. If the desire or emotion is inhibited, its excitement is
transferred with it into the subconscious and that excitement may
attach itself to other excitements and break into consciousness
as a mental disturbance of one type or another. If you can get at
the complex by psychoanalysis, by dragging it to the light, by
making it conscious, you discharge the excitement and health is
restored. This originally was very important in the Freudian work
and was called by the crude term of catharsis.

5. How can one get at these subterranean cravings and strivings,
at the fact that originally one desired one's mother and was
jealous of one's father, or vice versa? Here Freud developed an
elaborate technique based on the following:

Though the censor sits on the lid of the subconsciousness, that
wily self has ways and means of expression. In dreams, in humor,
in the slip of the tongue, in forgetfulness, in myths of the
race, in the symptoms of the hysteric patient, in the creations
of writers and artists, the subconsciousness seeks to symbolize
in innocent (or acceptable) form its crude wishes. By taking a
dream, for example, and analyzing it by what is known as the free
association method, one discovers the real meaning of the terms
used, the meaning behind the symbol; and behind the apparent
dream-content one sees revealed the wishes and disorganizing
desires of the subconscious or the real person. For throughout
Freud's work, though not so definitely expressed, there is the
idea that the subconscious is by far the most important part of
the personality, and that the social purposes, the moral
injunctions and feelings are not the real purposes and real
desires of the real personality.

In analyzing dreams, the symbols become quite standardized. The
horses, dogs, beards, queer situations of the dream (falling,
walking without clothes, picking up money, etc.), the demons,
ghosts, flying, relate definitely to sex situations, sex organs,
sex desires. (The Freudians are apt to deny this theoretically,
but practically every dream of the thousands they publish is a
sex dream of crude content.) Naturally a "pure" girl is quite
shocked when told that because she dreamed she was riding a gray
horse in a green meadow that she really has bad (and still is
troubled by) incestuous desires for her father, but that is the
way to cure her of her neurasthenia or fatigue or obsession of
one kind or other.

I have not attempted a detailed account of the technique of free
association, nor the Freudian account of humor, etc. There are
plenty of books on the market written by Freud himself and his
followers. Frankly I advise the average person not to read them.
I am opposed to the Freudian account of life and character,
though recognizing that he has caused the psychologist to examine
life with more realism, to strip away pretense, to be familiar
with the crude and to examine conduct with the microscope.

I do not believe there is an ORGANIZED subconsciousness, having a
PERSONALITY. Most of the work which proves this has been done on
hysterics. Hysterics are usually proficient liars, are very
suggestible and quite apt to give the examiner what he looks for,
because they seek his friendly interest and eager study. Wherever
I have checked up the "subconscious" facts as revealed by the
patient as a result of his psychoanalysis or through hypnosis, I
have found but little truth. On the other hand, the Freudians
practically never check up the statements of their patients; if a
woman tells all sorts of tales of her husband's attitude toward
her, or of the attitude of her parents, it is taken for granted
that she tells the truth. My belief is that had the statements of
Freud's patients been carefully investigated he would probably
never have evolved his theories.

The Freudians have made no consecutive study of normal childhood,
though they lay great stress on this period of life and in fact
trace the symptoms of their patients back to "infantile trauma."
Most of Freud's ideas on sex development can be traced to, the
one four-and-a-half-years-old child he analyzed, who was as
representative of normal childhood as the little chess champion
of nine years now astounding the world is representative of the
chess ability of the average child. Moreover, the basis of the
technique is the free association, an association released from
inhibitions of all kinds. There isn't any such thing, as
Professor Woodworth has pointed out. All associations are
conditioned by the physical condition of the patient, by his
mood, by the nature of the environment he finds himself in, by
the personality of the examiner and his powers of suggesting, his
purposes and (very important) by the patient's purposes, which he
cannot bid "Disappear!" As for the results of treatment, every
neurologist meets patients again and again who have been
"psychoanalyzed" without results. Moreover, psychoneurotic
patients get well without treatment, as do all other classes of
the sick, and the Christian Scientist, the osteopath and the
chiropractic also have records of "cures."

This is not the place to discuss in further detail the Freudian
ideas (the wish, the symbol, the jargon of transference, etc).
The leading follower of Freud, Jung, has already broken away from
the parent church, and there is an amusing cry of heresy raised.
Soon the eminent Austrian will have the pleasure of seeing a
half-dozen schools that have split off from his own,--followers
of Bleuler, Jung, Adler and others.

There IS a subconsciousness in that much of the nervous activity
of the organism has but little or no relation to consciousness.
There are mechanisms laid down by heredity and by the racial
structure that accomplish great functions without any but the
most indirect effect on consciousness and without any control by
the conscious personality. We are spurred on to sex life, to
marriage, to the care of our children by instinct; but the
instinct is not a personality any more than the automatic
heartbeat is. We repress a forbidden desire; if we are successful
and really overcome the desire by setting up new desires or in
some other way, the inhibited desire is not locked up in a
subterranean limbo. There is nothing pathological about
inhibition, for inhibition is as normal a part of character as
desire, and the social instinct which bids us inhibit is as
fundamental as the sex instinct. Most conflicts are on a
conscious plane, but most people will not admit to any one else
their deeply abhorrent desires. To all of us, or nearly all, come
desires and temptations that we would not acknowledge for the
world. If a wise examiner succeeds in getting us to admit them,
it is very agreeable to find a scapegoat in the form of the
subconsciousness. I have often said this to students: if all our
thoughts and conscious desires could be exposed, the most of us
would almost die of shame. True, we do not clearly understand
ourselves and our conflicts and explanation is often necessary,
but that is not equivalent to the subconsciousness; it merely
means that introspection is not sagacious.

Nor is it true, in my belief, that dreams are important psychical
events, nor that the subconsciousness evades a censor in
elaborating them. To what end would that be done? What would be
the use of it? Suppose that Freud and his school had never been;
then dreams would always be useless, for they would have no
interpreter. Men have dreamed in the countless ages before Freud
was born,--in vain. Think how the poor, misguided
subconsciousness has labored for nothing,--and how grateful it
should be to Freud! Dreams are results and have the same kind of
function that a stomach-ache has.

Things, experiences are forgotten, and whether they are
remembered or not depends upon the number of times they are
experienced, the attention they are given, the use they are put
to and the quality of the brain experiencing them. Disease and
old age may lower the recording power of the brain so that
experiences and sensations do not stick, and now and then the
brain is hypermnesic so that things are remembered with
surprising ease.

The conflicts of life are generally conscious conflicts, in my
experience. Desires and lusts that one does not know of do no
harm; it is the conflict which we cannot settle, the choice we
cannot make, the doubt we cannot resolve, that injures. It is not
those who find it easy to inhibit a desire or any impulse that
are troubled, though they may and do grow narrow. It is those
whose unlawful or discordant desires are not easily inhibited who
find themselves the theater of a constant struggle that breaks
them down. The uneasiness of a desire that arises from the
activity of the sex organs is not a manifestation of a
subconscious personality, unless we include in our personality
our livers, spleen and internal organs of all kinds. Such an
uneasiness may not be clearly understood by the individual merely
because the uneasiness is diffuse and not localized. But there is
no personality, Do will, wish or desire in that uneasiness; it
may and does cause to arise in the conscious personality wills
and wishes and desires against which there is rebellion and
because of which there is conflict.

Upon the issue of the conflicts within the personality hangs the
fate of the individual. Race-old lines of conduct are inhibited
by custom, tradition, teaching, conformity and the social
instinct and its allies. Here is a subject worthy of extended
consideration.

Freud has done the thought of our times a great service in
emphasizing conflict. From the earliest restriction laid by men
on his own conduct, wrestling with desire and temptation has been
the greatest of man's struggles. Internal warfare between
opposing purposes and desires may proceed to a disruption of the
personality, to failure and unhappiness, or else to a solidified
personality, efficient, single-minded and successful. Freud's
work has directed our attention to the thousand and one aberrant
desires that we will hardly acknowledge to ourselves, and he has
forced the professional worker in abnormal and normal mental life
to disregard his own prejudices, to strip away the camouflage
that we put over our motives and our struggles. Together with
Jung and Bleuler, he has helped our science of character a great
deal through no other method than by arousing it to action
against him. In order to fight him, our thought has been forced
to arm itself with the weapons that he has used.


CHAPTER VI. EMOTION, INSTINCT, INTELLIGENCE AND WILL

In a preceding chapter we discussed man as an organism reacting
against an outside world and spurred on by internal activities
and needs. We discussed stimulation, reflexes, inhibition, choice
and the organizing activity, memory and habit, consciousness and
subconsciousness, all of which are primary activities of the
organism. But these are mere theories of function, for the
activities we are interested in reside in more definite
reactions, of which the foregoing are parts.

We see a dreaded object on the horizon or foresee a
calamity,--and we fear. That state of the organism (note I do not
say that STATE OF MIND) resulting from the vision is an emotion.
We fly at once, we hide, and the action is in obedience to an
instinct. But ordinarily we do not fly or hide haphazard; we
think of ways and means, if only in a rudimentary fashion; we
shape plans, perhaps as we fly; we pick up a stick on the run,
hoping to escape but preparing for the reaction of fight if
cornered. "What shall I do--what shall I do? finds no conscious
answer if the emotion is overwhelming or the instinctive flight a
pell-mell affair; but ordinarily memories of other experiences or
of teaching come into the mind and some effort is made to meet
the situation in an "intelligent" manner.

Here, then, is a response in which three cardinal reactions have
occurred and are blended,--the emotion, the instinctive action,
and the intelligent action; or to make abstractions, emotion,
instinct and intelligence. (Personally, I think half the trouble
with our thought is that, we abstract from our experiences a
common group of associations and believe that the abstraction has
some existence outside our thoughts.) Thus there arise in us, as
a result of things experienced, curious feelings and we speak of
the feelings as emotions; we make a race-old response to a
situation,--an instinctive reaction; our memories, past
experiences and present purposes are stirred into activity, and
we plan and scheme, and this is an intelligent reaction, but
there is in reality no metaphysical entity Emotion, Instinct,
Intelligence. I believe that here the philosophers whose mental
activities are essentially in the direction of forming abstract
ideas have misled us.

What I wish to point out is this: that to any situation all three
reactions may take place and modify one another. We are
insulted--some one slaps our face--the fierce emotion of anger
arises and through us surge waves of feeling manifested on the
motor side by tensed muscles, rapid heart, harsh breathing,
perhaps a general reddening of face and eyes. Instinctively our
fists are clenched, a part of the reaction of fight, and it needs
but the slightest increase of anger to send us leaping on the
aggressor, to fight him perhaps to the death. But no,--the
situation has aroused certain memories and certain inhibitions:
the one who struck us has been our friend and we can see that he
is acting under a mistaken impression, or else we perceive that
he is right, that we have done him a wrong for which his blow is
a sort of just reaction. We are checked by these cerebral
activities, we choose some other reaction than fight; perhaps we
prevent him from further assault, or we turn and walk away, or we
start to explain, to mollify and console, or to remonstrate and
reprove. In other words, "intelligence" steps in to inhibit, to
bring to the surface the possibilities, to choose, and thus
overrides the emotional instinctive reaction. It may not succeed
in the overriding; we may hesitate, inhibit, etc., for only a
second or so, before hot anger overcomes us, and the instinctive
response of fight and retaliation takes place.

These examples might be multiplied a thousandfold. Every day of
our lives situations come up in which there is a blending or an
antagonism between emotional, instinctive and intelligent
responses. In fact, very few acts of the organized human being
are anything else. For every emotion awakens memories of past
emotions and the consequences; every instinct is hampered by
other instincts or by the inhibitions aroused by obstacles; and
intelligence continually struggles against emotion and blind
instinct. Teaching, experience, knowledge, all modify emotional
and instinctive responses so that sometimes they are hardly
recognizable as such. On the other hand, though intelligence
normally occupies the seat of power, it is easily ousted and in
reality only steers and directs the vehicle of life, choosing not
the goal but the road by which the goal can safely be reached.

In general terms we shall define emotions, instincts and
intelligence as follows:

1. For emotions we shall accept a modified James-Lange theory,
supplementing it by the developments of science since their day.
When a thing is seen or heard (or smelled or tasted or thought),
it arouses an emotion; that emotion consists of at least three
parts. First, the arousal of memories and experiences that give
it a value to the individual, make it a desired object or a
dreaded, distasteful object. Second, at the same time, or shortly
preceding or succeeding this, a great variety of changes takes
place in the organism, changes that we shall call the
vaso-visceral-motor changes. This means merely that there is a
series of reactions set up in the sympathetic nervous system, in
the blood vessels and bodily structures they control and in the
glands of internal secretion,--changes which include the blush or
the pallor, the rapid heartbeat, the quickened or labored
breathing, the changes in the digestive tract which include the
vomiting of disgust and the diarrhoea of fear; the changes that
passion brings in the male and the female and many other
alterations to be discussed again. Third, there is then the
feeling of these coenaesthetic changes,--a feeling of
pleasantness, unpleasantness mingled with the basic feeling of
excitement, and from then on that situation is linked in memory
with the feeling that we usually call the emotion but which is
only a part of it. Nevertheless, it becomes the part longed for
or thereafter avoided; it is the value of the emotion to us, as
conscious personalities, although it may be a false, disastrous,
dangerous value. Excitement is the generalized mood change that
results in consciousness in consequence of the
vaso-visceral-motor changes of emotion; it is therefore based on
bodily changes as is the feeling, pleasant or unpleasant, that
also occurs. William James said that we laugh and are therefore
happy; we weep and are therefore sad; the bodily changes are
primary and the feeling secondary. We do not accept this dictum
entirely, but we say that the organism reacts in a complicated
way and that the feeling--sadness, disgust, anger, joy--springs
from the memories and past experiences aroused by a situation as
well as from the widespread bodily excitement also so aroused.
For the neurologist both the cerebral and the sympathetic-
endocrinal components of emotion are important.

For the moment we turn to instinct and instinctive reactions.

2. Man has always wondered that things can be known without
teaching. So slow and painful is the process of mastering a
technique, whether of handicraftsmanship or of art, so imbued are
we with the need of education for the acquirement of knowledge,
that we are taken aback by the realization that all around us are
creatures carrying on the most elaborate technique, going through
the most complicated procedures and apparently possessed of the
surest knowledge without the possibility of teaching. The flight
of birds, the obstetric and nursing procedures of all animals,
and especially the complicated and systematized labors of bees,
ants and other insects, have aroused the wonder, admiration and
awe of scientists. A chick pecks its way out of its egg and
shakes itself,--then immediately starts on the trail of food and
usually needs no instruction as to diet. The female insect lays
its eggs, the male insect fertilizes them, the progeny go through
the states of evolution leading to adult life without teaching
and without the possibility of previous experience. Since the
parent never sees the progeny, and the progeny assume various
shapes and have very varied capacities at these times, there can
be no possible teaching of what is remarkably skillful and
marvelously adapted conduct.[1]

[1] The nature of instinct has been a subject of discussion for
centuries, but it is only within the last fifty years or
thereabouts that instinctive actions have really been studied. I
refer the reader to the works of Darwin, Romanes, Lloyd Morgan,
the Peckhams, Fabre, Hobhouse, and McDougall for details as to
the controversies and the facts obtained.


Herbert Spencer considered the instinct as a series of inevitable
reflexes. The carrion fly, when gravid, deposits her eggs in
putrid meat in order that the larvae may have appropriate food,
although she never sees the larvae or cannot know through
experience their needs. "The smell of putrid meat attracts the
gravid carrion fly. That is, it sets up motions of the wings
which bring the fly to it, and the fly having arrived, the smell,
and the contact combined stimulate the functions of
oviposition."[1] But as all the critics have pointed out, the
theory of compound reflex action leaves out of account that there
are any number of stimuli pouring in on the carrion fly at the
same time that the meat attracts her. The real mystery lies in
that internal condition which makes the smell of the meat act so
inevitably.

[1] Hobhouse.


In fact, it is this internal condition in the living creature
that is the most important single link in instinct. In the
non-mating season the sight of the female has no effect on the
male. But periodically his internal organs become tense with
procreative cells; these change his coenaesthesia; that starts
desire, and desire sets going the mechanisms of search,
courtship, the sexual act and the care of the female while she is
gravid. All instinctive acts have back of them either a tension
or a deficit of some kind or other, brought about by the
awakening of function of some glandular structure, so that the
organism becomes ready to respond to some appropriate outside
stimulus and inaccessible to others. During the mating season,
with certain animals, the stimulus of food has no effect until
there is effected the purposes of the sexual hunger. Changes in
the body due to the activity of sex glands or gastric juices or
any other organic product have two effects. They increase the
stimulation that comes from the thing sought and decrease the
stimulation that comes from other things. In physiological
language, the threshold for the first is lowered and for the
other it is raised.

But this does not explain HOW the changes in glands MAKE the
animal seek this or that, except by saying that the animal has
hereditary structures all primed to explode in the right way. We
may fall back on Bergson's mystical idea that all life is a
unity, and that instinct, which makes one living thing know what
to do with another--to kill it in a scientific way for the good
of the posterity of the killer--is merely the knowledge,
unconscious, that life has of life. That pleasant explanation
projects us back to a darker problem than ever: how life knows
life and why one part of life so obviously seeks to circumvent
the purpose of another part of life.

For us it is best to say that instinct arises out of the racial
and individual needs; that physically there occur changes in the
glands and tissues; that these set up desires which arouse into
action simple or elaborate mechanisms which finally satisfy the
need of the organs and tissues.[1]

[1] Kempf in his book on the vegetative nervous system goes into
great detail the way the visceral needs force the animal or human
to satisfy them. Life is a sort of war between the vegetative and
the central nervous system. There is just enough truth in this
point of view to make it very entertaining.


Even in the low forms of life instincts are not perfect at the
start, or perfect in details, and almost every member of a
species will show individuality in dealing with an obstacle to an
instinctive action. In other words, though there is instinct and
this furnishes the basis for action in the lowest forms of life,
there is also the capacity for learning by experience,--and this
is Intelligence. "The basis of instinct is heredity and we can
impute an action to pure instinct only if it is hereditary. The
other class of actions are those devised by the individual animal
for himself on the basis of his own experience and these are
called generally intelligent. Of intelligence operating within
the sphere of instinct there is ample evidence. There are
modifications of instinctive action directly traceable to
experience which cannot be explained by the interaction of purely
hereditary tendencies and there are cases in which the whole
structure of the instinct is profoundly modified by the
experience of the individual." Hobhouse, whom I quote, goes on to
give many examples of instinctive action modified by experience
and intelligence in the insect and lower animal world.

What I wish especially to point out is that man has many
instinctive bases for conduct, but instincts as such are not
often seen in pure form in man. They are constantly modified by
other instincts and through them runs the influence of
intelligence. The function of intelligence is to control
instincts, to choose ways and means for the fulfillment of
instincts that are blocked, etc. Moreover, the effects of
teachings, ethics, social organization and tradition, operating
through the social instincts, are to repress, inhibit and whip
into conformity every mode of instinctive conduct. The main
instincts are those relating to nutrition and reproduction, the
care of the young, to averting danger or destroying it, to play
and organized activity, to acquiring, perhaps to teaching and
learning and to the social relations generally. But manners creep
in to regulate our methods of eating and the things we shall eat;
and we may not eat at all unless we agree to get the things to
eat a certain way. We may not cohabit except under tremendous
restriction, and marriage with its aims and purposes is sexual in
origin but modified largely and almost beyond recognition by
social consideration, taste, esthetic matters, taboos and
economic conditions. We may not treat our enemy as instinct bids
us do,--for only in war may one kill and here one kills without
any personal purpose or anger, almost without instinct. We may be
compelled through social exigencies to treat our enemy politely,
eat with him, sleep with him and help him out of difficulties and
thus completely thwart one instinctive set of reactions. Play
becomes regulated by rules and customs, becomes motivated by the
desire for superiority, or the desire for gain, and may even
leave the physical field entirely and become purely mental. And
so on. It does no special practical good to discuss instincts as
if they operated in man as such. They become purposes. Therefore
we shall defer the consideration of instincts and purposes in
detail until later chapters of this book.

Since instincts are too rigid to meet the needs of the social and
traditional life of man, they become intellectualized and
socialized into purposes and ambitions, sometimes almost beyond
recognition. Nevertheless, the driving force of instinct is
behind every purpose, every ambition, even though the individual
himself has not the slightest idea of the force that is at work.
This does not mean that instinct acts as a sort of cellar-
plotter, roving around in a subconsciousness, or at least no such
semi-diabolical personality need be postulated, any more than it
need be postulated for the automatic mechanism that regulates
heartbeat or digestion. The organic tensions and depressions that
constitute instinct are not conscious or subconscious; they
affect our conscious personalities so that we desire something,
we fit that desire in with the rest of our desires, we seek the
means of gratifying that desire first in accordance with means
that Nature has given us and second in accordance with social
teaching and our intelligence. If the desire brings us sharply in
contact with obstacles imposed either by circumstances or more
precious desire, we inhibit that desire,--and thus the instinct.
Because organic tensions and depressions are periodic and are
dependent upon the activities of glands and tissues not within
our control, the desires may never be completely squelched and
may arise as often as some outer stimulus brings them into
activity, to plague and disorder the life of the conscious
personality.

3. With this preliminary consideration of instinct, we pass on to
certain of the phases of intelligence. How to define intelligence
is a difficulty best met by ignoring definition. But this much is
true: that the prime function of intelligence is to store up the
past and present experiences so that they can be used in the
future, and that it adds to the rigid mechanism of instinct a
plastic force which by inhibiting and exciting activity according
to need steers the organism through intricate channels.

Instinct, guided by a plan, conveniently called Nature's plan, is
not itself a planner. The discharge of one mechanism discharges
another and so on through a series until an end is reached,--an
end apparently not foreseen by the organism but acting for the
good of the race to which the organism belongs. Intelligence,
often enough not conscious of the plans of Nature,[1] indeed,
decidedly ignorant of these plans, works for some good
established by itself out of stimuli set up by the instincts. It
plans, looks backward and forward, reaches the height of
reflecting on itself, gets to recognize the existence of instinct
and sets itself the task of controlling instinct. Often enough it
fails, instinct breaks through, takes possession of the means of
achievement, accomplishes its purpose--but the failure of
intelligence to control and the misguided control it attempts and
assumes are merely part of the general imperfections of the
organism. A perfect intelligence would be clearly able to
understand its instincts, to give each of them satisfaction by a
perfect compromise, would pick the methods for accomplishment
without error, and storing up the past experiences without loss,
would meet the future according to a plan.


[1] We are at this stage in a very dark place in human thought.
We say that instincts seek the good of the race, or have some
racial purpose, as the sexual instinct has procreation as its
end. But the lover wooing his sweetheart has no procreation plan
in his mind; he is urged on by a desire to win this particular
girl, a desire which is in part sexual, in part admiration of her
beauty, grace, and charm; again it is the pride of possession and
achievement; and further is the result of the social and romantic
ideals taught in books, theaters, etc. He may not have the
slightest desire for a child; as individual he plans one
thing,--but we who watch him see in his approach the racial urge
for procreation and even disregard his purposes as unimportant.
Who and what is the Race, where does it reside, how can it have
purposes? Call it Nature, and we are no better off. We must fall
back on an ancient personalization of forces, and our minds rest
easier when we think of a Planner operating in all of us and
perhaps smiling as He witnesses our strivings.


As we study the nervous systems of animals, we find that with the
apparent growth of intelligence there is a development of that
part of the brain called the cerebrum. In so far as certain other
parts of the brain are concerned--medulla, pons, mid-brain, basal
ganglia cerebellum--we who are human are not essentially superior
to the dog, the cow, the elephant or the monkey. But when the
neopallium, or the cerebrum, is considered, the enormous
superiority of man (and the superiority of the higher over the
lower animals) becomes striking. Anatomically the cerebrum is a
complex elaboration of cells and fibers that have these main
purposes: First, to record in perfect and detailed fashion the
EXPERIENCES of the organism, so that here are memory centers for
visual and auditory experiences, for skin, joint and bone
experiences of all kinds, speech memories, action memories, and
undoubtedly for the recording in some way not understood of the
pleasure-pain feelings. Second, it has a hold, a grip on the
motor mechanism of the body, on the muscles that produce action,
so that the intelligence can nicely adapt movement to the
circumstances, to purpose, and can inhibit the movements that
arise reflexly. Thus in certain diseases, where the part of the
brain involved in movement is injured, voluntary movement
disappears but reflex action is increased. Third, the neopallium,
or cerebrum, is characterized by what are known as association
tracts, i.e., connections of intricate kinds which link together
areas of the brain having different functions and thus allow for
combinations of activity of all kinds. The brain thus acts to
increase the memories of the past, and, as we all know, man is
probably the only animal to whom the past is a controlling force,
sometimes even an overpowering force. It acts to control the
conduct of the individual, to delay or to inhibit it, and it acts
to increase in an astonishing manner the number of reactions
possible. One stimulus arousing cerebral excitement may set going
mechanisms of the brain through associated tracts that will
produce conduct of one kind or another for years to come.

We spoke in a previous chapter of choice as an integral function
of the organism. While choice, when two competing stimuli awake
competing mechanisms, may be non-cerebral in its nature, largely
speaking it is a function of the cerebrum, of the intelligence.
To choose is a constant work of the intelligence, just as to
doubt is an unavailing effort to find a choice. Choice blocked is
doubt, one of the unhappiest of mental states. I shall not
pretend to solve the mystery of WHO chooses,--WHAT chooses;
perhaps there is a constant immortal ego; perhaps there is built
up a series of permanently excited areas which give rise to ego
feeling and predominate in choice; perhaps competing mechanisms,
as they struggle (in Sherrington's sense) for motor pathways,
give origin to the feeling of choice. At any rate, because we
choose is the reason that the concept of will has arisen in the
minds of both philosopher and the man in the street, and much of
our feeling of worth, individuality and power--mental factors of
huge importance in character--arises from the power to choose.
Choice is influenced by--or it is a net result of--the praise and
blame of others, conscience, memory, knowledge of the past, plans
for the future. It is the fulcrum point of conduct!

That animals have intelligence in the sense in which I have used
the term is without doubt. No one who reads the work of Morgan,
the Peckhams, Fabre, Hobhouse and other recent investigators of
the instincts can doubt it. Whether animals think in anything
like the form our thought takes is another matter. We are so
largely verbal in thought that speech and the capacity to speak
seem intimately related to thought. For the mechanics of thought,
for the laws of the association of ideas, the reader is referred
to the psychologists. That minds differ according to whether they
habitually follow one type of associations or another is an old
story. Dr Johnson, however, was right in resolving to go, if we
were not asked again, as it is best to err on the safe side in
such cases, and to be sure that one is quite welcome. To
my great joy, when Mr Boyd returned, he told Dr Johnson that it
was Lady Errol who had called him out, and said that she would
never let Dr Johnson into the house again, if he went away that
night; and that she had ordered the coach, to carry us to view a
great curiosity on the coast, after which we should see the house.
We cheerfully agreed.

Mr Boyd was engaged, in 1745-6, on the same side with many
unfortunate mistaken noblemen and gentlemen. He escaped,
and lay concealed for a year in the island of Arran, the ancient
territory of the Boyds. He then went to France, and was about
twenty years on the continent. He married a French lady, and
now lived very comfortably at Aberdeen, and was much at Slains
castle. He entertained us with great civility. He had a pompousness
or formal plenitude in his conversation which I did not
dislike. Dr Johnson said, there was too much elaboration in his
talk. It gave me pleasure to see him, a steady branch of the
family, setting forth all its advantages with much zeal. He
told us that Lady Errol was one of the most pious and sensible
women in the island; had a good head, and as good a heart. He
said, she did not use force or fear in educating her children.
JOHNSON. 'Sir, she is wrong; I would rather have the rod
to be the general terror to all, to make them learn, than tell a
child, if you do thus or thus, you will be more esteemed than your
brothers or sisters. The rod produces an effect which terminates
itself. A child is afraid of being whipped, and gets his task,
and there's an end on't; whereas, by exciting emulation, and
comparisons of superiority, you lay the foundation of lasting
mischief; you make brothers and sisters hate each
other.'
During Mr Boyd's stay in Arran, he had found a chest
of medical books, left by a surgeon there, and had read
them till he acquired some skill in physick, in consequence
of which he is often consulted by the poor.
There were several here waiting for him as patients. We walked
round the house till stopped by a cut made by the influx of the
sea.

The house is built quite upon the shore; the windows look upon the
main ocean, and the King of Denmark is Lord Errol's nearest
neighbour on the north-east.

We got immediately into the coach, and drove to Dunbui, a rock
near the shore, quite covered with sea-fowls; then to a circular
bason of large extent, surrounded with tremendous rocks. On the
quarter next the sea, there is a high arch in the rock, which the
force of the tempest has driven out. This place is called Buchan's
Buller, or the Buller of Buchan, and the country people call
it the Pot. Mr Boyd said it was so called from the French
Bouloir. It may be more simply traced from Boiler in our
own language. We walked round this monstrous cauldron. In some
places, the rock is very narrow; and on each side there is a
sea deep enough for a man of war to ride in; so that it is
somewhat horrid to move along. However, there is earth and grass
upon the rock, and a kind of road marked out by the print of
feet; so that one makes it out pretty safely: yet it alarmed
me to see Dr Johnson striding irregularly along. He insisted on
taking a boat, and sailing into the Pot. We did so. He was stout,
and wonderfully alert. The Buchan-men all shewing their teeth,
and speaking with that strange sharp accent which distinguishes
them, was to me a matter of curiosity. He was not sensible of the
difference of pronunciation in the south and north of Scotland,
which I wondered at.

As the entry into the Buller is so narrow that oars cannot
be used as you go in, the method taken is to row very hard when
you come near it, and give the boat such a rapidity of motion that
it glides in. Dr Johnson observed what an effect this scene would
have had, were we entering into an unknown place. There are caves
of considerable depth; I think, one on each side. The boatmen
had never entered either of them far enough to know the size.
Mr Boyd told us that it is customary for the company at Peterhead
well, to make parties, and come and dine in one of the caves
here.

He told us, that, as Slains is at a considerable distance from
Aberdeen, Lord Errol, who has a very large family, resolved
to have a surgeon of his own. With this view he educated one
of his tenant's sons, who is now settled in a very neat house
and farm just by, which we saw from the road. By the salary which
the earl allows him, and the practice which he has had, he is in
very easy circumstances.

He had kept an exact account of all that had been laid out on his
education, and he came to his lordship one day, and told him that
he had arrived at a much higher situation than ever he expected;
that he was now able to repay what his lordship had advanced,
and begged he would accept of it. The earl was pleased with
the generous gratitude and genteel offer of the man; but
refused it. Mr Boyd also told us, Cumming the Quaker first
began to distinguish himself, by writing against Dr Leechman
on prayer, to prove it unnecessary, as God knows best what should
be, and will order it without our asking--the old hackneyed
objection.

When we returned to the house we found coffee and tea in the
drawing-room.

Lady Errol was not there, being, as I supposed, engaged with
her young family. There is a bow-window fronting the sea.
Dr Johnson repeated the ode, Jam satis terris, while Mr Boyd was
with his patients. He spoke well in favour of entails, to preserve
lines of men whom mankind are accustomed to reverence. His
opinion was that so much land should be entailed as that families
should never fall into contempt, and as much left free as to give
them all the advantages of property in case of any emergency.
'If,' said he, 'the nobility are suffered to sink into
indigence, they of course become corrupt; they are ready to do
whatever the king chooses; therefore it is fit they should be
kept from becoming poor, unless it is fixed that when they fall
below a certain standard of wealth they shall lose their peerages.
We know the House of Peers have made noble stands, when the
House of Commons durst not. The two last years of Parliament
they dare not contradict the populace.'
This room is ornamented with a number of fine prints, and
with a whole length picture of Lord Errol, by Sir Joshua Reynolds.
This led Dr Johnson and me to talk of our amiable and elegant
friend, whose panegyrick he concluded by saying, 'Sir Joshua
Reynolds, sir, is the most invulnerable man I know; the man
with whom if you should quarrel, you would find the most
difficulty how to abuse.'
Dr Johnson observed, the situation here was the noblest he
had ever seen, better than Mount Edgecumbe, reckoned the first in
England; because, at
Mount Edgecumbe, the sea is bounded by land on the other side, and,
though there is there the grandeur of a fleet, there is also the
impression of there being a dock-yard, the circumstances of which
are not agreeable.

At Slains is an excellent old house. The noble owner has built
of brick, along the square in the inside, a gallery, both on the
first and second story, the house being no higher; so that he has
always a dry walk, and the rooms, to which formerly
there was no approach but through each other, have now all
separate entries from the gallery, which is hung with Hogarth's
works, and other prints. We went and sat a while in the library.
There is a valuable numerous collection. It was chiefly made
by Mr Falconer, husband to the late Countess of Errol in her own
right. This earl has added a good many modern books.

About nine the earl came home. Captain Gordon of Park was with
him.
His lordship put Dr Johnson in mind of their having dined together
in London, along with Mr Beauclerk. I was exceedingly pleased
with Lord Errol. His dignified person and agreeable countenance,
with the most unaffected affability, gave me high satisfaction.
From perhaps a weakness, or, as I rather hope, more fancy and
warmth of feeling than is quite reasonable, my mind is ever
impressed with admiration for persons of high birth, and I could,
with the most perfect honesty, expatiate on Lord Errol's good
qualities; but he stands in no need of my praise.

His agreeable manners and softness of address prevented
that constraint which the idea of his being Lord High Constable
of Scotland might otherwise have occasioned. He talked very
easily and sensibly with his learned guest. I observed
that Dr Johnson, though he shewed that respect to his
lordship, which, from principle, he always does to high rank,
yet, when they came to argument, maintained that manliness
which becomes the force and vigour of his understanding.

To shew external deference to our superiors, is proper: to seem
to yield to them in opinion, is meanness. [Footnote: Lord Chesterfield,
in his letters to his son, complains of one who argued in an
indiscriminate manner with men of all ranks. Probably the noble
lord had felt with some uneasiness what it was to encounter
stronger abilities than his own. If a peer will engage at foils
with his inferior in station, he must expect that his inferior
in station will avail himself of every advantage; otherwise it
is not a fair trial of strength and skill. The same will hold in
a contest of reason, or of wit.

A certain king entered the lists of genius with Voltaire.

The consequence was, that, though the king had great and
brilliant talents, Voltaire had such a superiority that his majesty
could not bear it; and the poet was dismissed, or escaped, from
that court. In the reign of James I of England. Crichton, Lord
Sanquhar, a peer of Scotland, from a vain ambition to excel a
fencing-master in his own art, played at rapier and dagger with
him. The fencing-master, whose fame and bread were at stake, put
out one of his lordship's eyes. Exasperated at this. Lord
Sanquhar hired ruffians, and had the fencing-master assassinated;
for which his lordship was capitally tried, condemned, and
hanged. Not being a peer of England, he was tried by the name of
Robert Crichton, Esq.; but he was admitted to be a baron of three
hundred years standing. See the State Trials; and the History of
England by Hume, who applauds the impartial justice executed upon
a man of high rank.]

The earl said grace, both before and after supper, with much
decency.
He told us a story of a man who was executed at Perth, some years
ago, for murdering a woman who was with child by him, and
a former child he had by her. His hand was cut off: he was then
pulled up; but the rope broke, and he was forced to lie an hour
on the ground, till another rope was brought from Perth,
the execution being in a wood at some distance, at the place
where the murders were committed. 'There,' said my lord, 'I see
the hand of Providence.' I was really happy here. I saw in this
nobleman the best dispositions and best principles; and I saw him,
in my mind's eye, to be the representative of the ancient Boyds of
Kilmarnock.

I was afraid he might have urged drinking, as, I believe, he used
formerly to do, but he drank port and water out of a large
glass himself, and let us do as we pleased. He went with us to
our rooms at night; said, he took the visit very kindly; and
told me, my father and he were very old acquaintances; that I
now knew the way to Slains, and he hoped to see me
there again.

I had a most elegant room; but there was a fire in it which blazed;
and the sea, to which my windows looked, roared; and the pillows
were made of the feathers of some sea-fowl, which had to me a
disgreeable smell: so that, by all these causes, I was kept awake
a good while.

I saw, in imagination, Lord Errol's father, Lord Kilmarnock (who
was beheaded on Tower Hill in 1746), and I was somewhat
dreary. But the thought did not last long, and I fell
asleep.

Wednesday, 25th August
We got up between seven and eight, and found Mr Boyd in the
dining-room, with tea and coffee before him, to give us breakfast.
We were in an admirable humour. Lady Errol had given each of
us a copy of an ode by Beattie, on the birth of her son,
Lord Hay. Mr Boyd asked Dr Johnson, how he liked it. Dr Johnson,
who did not admire it, got off very well, by taking it out,
and reading the second and third stanzes of it with much melody.

This, without his saying a word, pleased Mr Boyd. He observed,
however, to Dr Johnson, that the expression as to the family
of Errol,
A thousand years have seen it shine compared with what went before,

was an anticlimax, and that it would have been better
Ages have seen, etc.

Dr Johnson said, 'So great a number as a thousand is better. Dolus
latet in universalibus. Ages might be only two ages.' He talked
of the advantage of keeping up the connections of relationship,
which produce much kindness. 'Every man,' said he, 'who comes
into the world, has need of friends. If he has to get them for
himself, half his life is spent, before his merit is known.
Relations are a man's ready friends who support him. When a
man is in real distress, he flies into the arms of his relations.
An old lawyer, who had much experience in making wills, told me,
that after people had deliberated long, and thought of
many for their executors, they settled at last by fixing on
their relations. This shews the universality of the principle.'

I regretted the decay of respect for men of family, and that a
Nabob now would carry an election from them. JOHNSON. 'Why, sir,
the Nabob will carry it by means of his wealth, in a country
where money is highly valued, as it must be where nothing can
be had without money; but, if it comes to personal preference,
the man of family will always carry it. There is generally a
scoundrelism about a low man.' Mr Boyd said, that was a good
ism.

I said, I believed mankind were happier in the ancient
feudal state of subordination, than they are in the modern state
of independency.
JOHNSON. To be sure, the CHIEF was: but we must think of the
number of individuals. That THEY were less happy, seems plain; for
that state from which all escape as soon as they can, and to which
none return after they have left it, must be less happy;
and this is the case with the state of dependance on a chief or
great man.'
I mentioned the happiness of the French in their subordination,
by the reciprocal benevolence and attachment between the great
and those in lower rank. Mr Boyd gave us an instance of their
gentlemanly spirit.
An old Chevalier de Malthe, of ancient noblesse, but in low
circumstances, was in a coffee-house at Paris, where was
Julien, the great manufacturer at the Gobelins, of the fine
tapestry, so much distinguished both for the figures and the
colours. The chevalier's carriage was very old. Says Julien,
with a plebeian insolence, 'I think, sir, you had better have your
carriage new painted.'

The chevalier looked at him with indignant contempt, and answered,
'Well, sir. you may take it home and DYE it!' All the coffee-house
rejoiced at Julien's confusion.

We set out about nine. Dr Johnson was curious to see one of those
structures which northern antiquarians call a Druid's temple. I
had a recollection of one at Strichen; which I had seen
fifteen years ago:
so we went four miles out of our road, after passing Old Deer,
and went thither. Mr Fraser, the proprietor, was at home, and
shewed it to us. But I had augmented it in my mind; for all that
remains is two stones set up on end, with a long one laid
upon them, as was usual and one stone at a little distance from
them. That stone was the capital one of the circle which
surrounded what now remains. Mr Fraser was very hospitable.
[Footnote: He is the worthy son of a worthy father, the late
Lord Strichen, one of our judges, to whose kind notice I was much
obliged. Lord Strichen was a man not only honest, but highly
generous: for after his succession to the family estate, he paid
a large sum of debts contracted by his predecessor, which he was
not under any obligation to pay.

Let me here, for the credit of Ayrshire, my own county, record a
noble instance of liberal honesty in William Hutchison,
drover, in Lanehead, Kyle, who formerly obtained a full
discharge from his creditors upon a composition of his debts:
but upon being restored to good circumstances, invited his creditors
last winter to a dinner, without telling the reason, and paid
them their full sums, principal and interest. They presented him
with a piece of plate, with an inscription to commemorate this
extraordinary instance of true worth; which should make
some people in Scotland blush, while, though mean themselves, they
strut about under the protection of great alliance conscious of
the wretchedness of numbers who have lost by them, to whom they
never think of making reparation, but indulge themselves and
their families in most unsuitable expence.] There was a fair
at Strichen; and he had several of his neighbours from it at
dinner. One of them, Dr Fraser, who had been in the
army, remembered to have seen Dr Johnson at a lecture on
experimental philosophy, at Lichfield.

The doctor recollected being at the lecture; and he was
surprised to find here somebody who knew him.

Mr Fraser sent a servant to conduct us by a short passage into the
high-road. I observed to Dr Johnson, that I had a most disagreeable
notion of the life of country gentlemen; that I left Mr
Fraser just now, as one leaves a prisoner in a jail. Dr Johnson
said, that I was right in thinking them unhappy; for that they
had not enough to keep their minds in motion.

I started a thought this afternoon which amused us a great part of
the way. 'If,' said I, 'our club should come and set up in St
Andrews, as a college, to teach all that each of us can, in the
several departments of learning and taste, we should rebuild
the city: we should draw a wonderful concourse of students.' Dr
Johnson entered fully into the spirit of this project. We
immediately fell to distributing the offices. I was to teach
civil and Scotch law; Burke, politicks and eloquence; Garrick,
the art of publick speaking; Langton was to be our Grecian,
Colman our Latin professor; Nugent to teach physick; Lord
Charlemont, modern history; Beauclerk, natural philosophy; Vesey,
Irish antiquities, or Celtick learning;[Footnote: Since the first
edition, it has been suggested by one of the clubs, who knew Mr
Vesey better than Dr Johnson and I, that we did not assign
him a proper place; for he was quite unskilled in Irish antiquities
and Celtick learning, but might with propriety have been made
professor of architecture, which he understood well, and has left
a very good specimen of his knowledge and taste in that art, by an
elegant house built on a plan of his own formation, at Lucan, a few
miles from Dublin.]

Jones, Oriental learning; Goldsmith, poetry and ancient history;
Chamier, commercial politicks; Reynolds, painting, and the arts
which have beauty for their object; Chambers, the law of England.

Dr Johnson at first said. 'I'll trust theology to nobody but
myself.' But, upon due consideration, that Percy is a
clergyman, it was agreed that Percy should teach practical
divinity and British antiquities; Dr Johnson himself, logick,
metaphysicks and scholastick divinity. In this manner did we
amuse ourselves, each suggesting, and each varying or adding,
till the whole was adjusted. Dr Johnson said, we only wanted
a mathematician since Dyer died, who was a very good one; but
as to every thing else, we should have a very capital
university, [Footnote: Our club, originally at the Turk's Head,
Gerrard Street, then at Prince's, Sackville Street, now at Baxter's
Dover Street, which at Mr Garrick's funeral acquired a name for
the first time, and was called The Literary Club, was instituted
in 1764, and now consists of thirty-five members.

It has, since 1773, been greatly augmented; and though Dr Johnson
with justice observed, that, by losing Goldsmith, Garrick,
Nugent, Chamier, Beauclerk, we had lost what would make an eminent
club, yet when I mention, as an accession, Mr Fox, Dr George
Fordyce, Sir Charles Bunbury, Lord Offory, Mr Gibbon, Dr Adam
Smith, Mr R. B. Sheridan, the Bishops of Kilaloe and St Asaph,
Dean Marlay, Mr Steevens, Mr Dunning, Sir Joseph Banks, Dr Scott
of the Commons, Earl Spencer, Mr Windham of Norfolk, Lord Elliot,
Mr Malone, Dr Joseph Warton, the Rev. Thomas Warton, Lord Lucan,
Mr Burke junior, Lord Palmerston, Dr Burney, Sir William Hamilton,
and Dr Warren, it will be acknowledged that we might establish
a second university of high reputation.]
We got at night to Banff. I sent Joseph on to Duff house: but Earl
Fife was not at home, which I regretted much, as we should have
had a very elegant reception from his lordship. We found here but
an indifferent inn. [Footnote: Here, unluckily the windows had
no pullies; and Dr Johnson, who was constantly eager for
fresh air, had much struggling to get one of them kept open. Thus
he had a notion impressed upon him, that this wretched defect was
general in Scotland; in consequence of which he has erroneously
enlarged upon it in his Journey.

I regretted that he did not allow me to read over his book before
it was printed.

I should have changed very little; but I should have
suggested an alteration in a few places where he has laid himself
open to be attacked. I hope I should have prevailed
with him to omit or soften his assertion, that 'a Scotsman
must be a sturdy moralist, who does not prefer Scotland to
truth', for I really think it is not founded; and it is harshly
said.] Dr Johnson wrote a long letter to Mrs Thrale. I wondered
to see him write so much so easily. He verified his own doctrine
that 'a man may always write when he will set himself DOGGEDLY to
it'.

Thursday, 26th August
We got a fresh chaise here, a very good one, and very good horses.
We breakfasted at Cullen.

They set down dried haddocks broiled, along with our tea.
I ate one; but Dr Johnson was disgusted by the sight of
them, so they were removed. Cullen has a comfortable appearance,
though but a very small town, and the houses mostly poor
buildings.

I called on Mr Robertson, who has the charge of Lord
Findlater's affairs, and was formerly Lord Monboddo's clerk, was
three times in France with him, and translated Condamine's
Account of the Savage Girl, to which his lordship wrote a preface,
containing several remarks of his own. Robertson said, he
did not believe so much as his lordship did; that it was plain
to him, the girl confounded what she imagined with what she
remembered: that, besides, she perceived Condamine and Lord Monboddo
forming theories, and she adapted her story to them.

Dr Johnson said, 'It is a pity to see Lord Monboddo publish
such notions as he has done; a man of sense, and of so much elegant
learning. There would be little in a fool doing it; we should
only laugh; but when a wise man does it, we are sorry. Other
people have strange notions; but they conceal them. If they have
tails, they hide them; but Monboddo is as jealous of his
tail as a squirrel.' I shall here put down some more remarks of
Dr Johnson's on Lord Monboddo, which were not made exactly at this
time, but come in well from connection. He said, he did not approve
of a judge's calling himself FARMER Burnett, [Footnote: It is the
custom in Scotland for the judges of the Court of Session to have
the title of LORDS, from their estates: thus Mr Burnett is Lord
MONBODDO, as Mr Home was Lord KAMES.
There is something a little aukward in this; for they are denominated
in deeds by their NAMES, with the addition of one of the Senators
of the College of Justice'; and subscribe their Christian and
surname, as JAMES BURNETT, HENRY HOME, even in judicial acts.] and
going about with a little round hat. He laughed heartily at his
lordship's saying he was an ENTHUSIASTICAL farmer; 'for,' said he,
'what can he do in farming by his ENTHUSIASM?' Here, however, I
think Dr Johnson mistaken.Crowds, though usually pleasurable, become
too exciting, and there is a sort of confusion resulting because
attention and comprehension are interfered with. The neurasthenic
finds himself a prey to stimuli, his reaction is too great and he
fatigues too readily. He finds sleep difficult because the little
noises and discomforts make difficult the relaxation that is so
important. The neurasthenic's voluntary attention is lowered
because of the excitement he feels when his involuntary attention
is aroused.

In the condition called anhedonia, which we shall hear of from
time to time, there is a blocking or dropping out of the sense of
desire and satisfaction even if through habit one eats, drinks,
has sexual relationship, keeps up his work and carries out his
plans. This lack of desire for the joys of life is attended by a
restlessness, a seeking of excitement for a time, until there
arises a curious over-reaction to excitement. The anhedonic
patient finds that noises are very troublesome, that he becomes
unpleasantly excited over music, that company is distressing
because he becomes confused and excited, and crowds, busy scenes
and streets are intolerable. Many a hermit, I fancy, who found
the sensual and ambitious pleasure of life intolerable, who
sought to fly from crowds to the deserts, was anhedonic but he
called it renunciation. (Whether one really ever renounces when
desire is still strong is a nice question. I confess to some
scepticism on this point.)

2. Seeking excitement is one of the great pleasure-trends of
life. In moderation, tension, expectation and the diffuse bodily
reactions are agreeable; there is a feeling of vigor, the
attention is drawn from the self and there is a feeling of being
alive that is pleasurable. The tension must not be too long
sustained, nor the bodily reaction too intense; relaxation and
lowered attention must relieve the excitement from time to time;
but with these kept in mind, it is true that Man is a seeker of
excitement.

The grave-stones of Sir Allan M'Lean's family, and of
that of M'Quarrie, had as good an appearance as the royal
grave-stones; if they were royal, we doubted.

My easiness to give credit to what I heard in the course of our
tour was too great.The multiplicity and variety of the
stimuli of a city--social, sexual, its stir and bustle--make it
difficult for those once habituated ever to tolerate the quiet of
the country. Excitement follows the great law of stimulation; the
same internal effect, the same feeling, requires a greater and
greater stimulus, as well as new stimuli. So, the cities grow
larger, increase their modes of excitement, and the dweller in
the city, unless fortified by a steady purpose, becomes a seeker
of excitement.

Not only is excitement pleasurable when reached through the
intrinsically agreeable but it can be obtained from small doses
of the intrinsically disagreeable. This is the explanation of the
pleasure obtained from the gruesome, from the risk of life or
limb, or from watching others risk life or limb. Aside from the
sense of power obtained by traveling fast, it is the risk, THE
SLIGHT FEAR, producing excitement, that makes the speed maniac a
menace to the highways. And I think that part of the pleasure
obtained from bitter foods is that the disagreeable element is
just sufficient to excite the gastro-intestinal tract. The
fascination of the horrible lies in the excitement produced, an
excitement that turns to horror and disgust if the disagreeable
is presented too closely. Thus we can read with pleasurable
excitement of things that in their reality would shock us into
profoundest pain. The more jaded one is, the more used to
excitement, the more he seeks what are, ordinarily, disagreeable
methods of excitement. Thus pain in slight degree is exciting,
and in the sexual sphere pain is often sought as a means of
heightening the pleasure, especially by women and by the roue. I
suspect also that the haircloth shirt and the sackcloth and ashes
of the anhedonic hermit were painful methods of seeking
excitement.

Sometimes pain is used in small amounts to relieve excitement.
Thus the man who bites his finger nails to the quick gets a
degree of satisfaction from the habit. Indeed, all manner of
habitual and absurd movements, from scratching to pacing up and
down, are efforts to relieve the tension of excitement. One of my
patients under any excitement likes to put his hands in very hot
water, and the pain, by its localization, takes away from the
diffuse and unpleasant excitement. The diffuse uncontrolled
excitement of itching is often relieved by painful biting and
scratching. Here is an effort to localize a feeling and thus
avoid diffuse discomfort, a sort of homeopathic treatment.

3. As a corollary to the need of excitement and its pleasure is
the reaction to monotony. Monotony is one of the most dreaded
factors in the life of man. The internal resources of most of us
are but small; we can furnish excitement and interest from our
own store for but a short time, and there then ensues an intense
yearning for something or somebody that will take up our
attention and give a direction to our thought and action. Under
monotony the thought turns inward, there is daydreaming and
introspection,[1] which are pleasurable only at certain times for
most of us and which grow less pleasurable as we grow older.
Watch the faces of people thinking as they travel alone in
cars,--and rarely does one see a happy face. The lines of the
face droop and sighs are frequent. Monotony and melancholy are
not far apart; monotony and a restless seeking for excitement are
almost synonymous. Of course, what constitutes monotony will
differ in the viewpoint of each person, for some are so
constituted and habituated (for habit is a great factor) that it
takes but few stimuli to arouse a well-sustained interest, and
others need or think they need many things, a constantly changing
set of circumstances for pleasure.

[1] Stanley Hall, in his book "Adolescence," lays great stress on
monotony and its effects. See also Graham Wallas' "The Great
Society."


Restlessness, eager searching for change, intense dissatisfaction
are the natural fruit of monotony. Here is an important item in
the problems of our times. Side by side with growth of the cities
and their excitement is the growing monotony of most labor. The
factory, with its specialized production, reduces the worker to a
cog in the machinery. In some factories, in the name of
efficiency, the windows are whitewashed so that the outside world
is shut out and talking is prohibited; the worker passes his day
performing his unvaried task from morning to night. Under such
circumstances there arises either a burning sense of wrong, of
injustice, of slavery and a thwarting of the individual dignity,
or else a yearning for the end of the day, for dancing, drinking,
gambling, for anything that offers excitement. Or perhaps both
reactions are combined. Our industrial world is poorly organized
economically, as witness the poor distribution of wealth and the
periodic crises, but it is abominably organized from the
standpoint of the happiness of the worker. Of this, more in
another place.

Monotony brings fatigue, because there is a shutting out of the
excitement that acts as an antidote to fatigue-feeling. A man
who works without fatigue six days a week is tired all day Sunday
and longs for Monday. The modern housewife,[1] with her four
walls and the unending, uninteresting tasks, is worn out, and her
fatigue reaction is the greater the more her previous life has
been exciting and varied. Fatigue often enough is present not
because of the work done but because the STIMULUS TO WORK HAS
DISAPPEARED. Monotony is an enemy of character. Variety, in its
normal aspect, is not only the spice of life; it is a great need.
Stabilization of purpose and work are necessary, but a
standardization that stamps out the excitement of variety is a
deadly blow to human happiness.

[1] See my book "The Nervous Housewife!"


Under monotony certain types of personalities develop an intense
inner life, which may be pathological, or it may be exceedingly
fruitful of productive thought.

Some build up a delusional thought and feeling. For delusion
merely means uncorrected thought and belief, and we can only
correct by contact and collision. The whole outer world may
vanish or become hostile and true mental disease develop. Perhaps
it is more nearly correct to say that minds predisposed to mental
disease find in monotony a circumstance favoring disease.

On the other hand, a vigorous mind shut out from outer stimuli[1]
finds in this circumstance the time to develop leisurely, finds a
freedom from distraction that leads to clear views of life and a
proper expression. A periodic retirement from the busy, too-busy
world is necessary for the thinker that he may digest his
material, that he may strip away unessential beliefs, that he may
find what it is he really needs, strives for and ought to have.

[1] Perhaps this is why real genius does not flourish in our
crowded, over-busy days, despite the great amount of talent.


4. Here we come to another corollary of the need for excitement,
the need of relaxation. At any rate, satisfaction and pleasure
need periods of hunger in order to be felt. In the story of
Buddha he is represented as being shielded from all sorrow and
pain, living a life filled with pleasure and excitement, yet he
sought out pain. So excitement, if too long continued--or rather
if a situation that produces excitement of a pleasurable kind be
too long endured--will result in boredom. "Things get to be the
same," whether it be the excitement of love, the city, sports or
what not. This is a basic law of all pleasures. In order that
life may have zest, that excitement may be easily and pleasurably
evoked and by normal means, we need relaxation, periods free from
excitement, or we must pass on to a costly chase for excitement
that brings breakdown of the character.

5. If the seeking of excitement, as such, is one of the prime
pleasures of life, organized excitement in the form of interest
is the directing and guiding principle of activity. At the outset
of life interest is in the main involuntary and is aroused by the
sights, sounds and happenings of the outer world. As time goes
on, as the organism develops, as memories of past experiences
become active, as peculiarities of personality develop, and as
instincts reach activity, interest commences to take definite
direction, to become canalized, so to speak. In fact, the
development of interest is from the diffuse involuntary form of
early childhood to a specialization, a condensation into definite
voluntary channels. This development goes on unevenly, and is a
very variable feature in the lives of all of us. Great ability
expresses itself in a sustained interest; a narrow character is
one with overdeformed, too narrow interest; failure is often the
retention of the childish character of diffuse, involuntary
interest. And the capacity to sustain interest depends not only
on the special strength of the various abilities of the
individual, but remarkably on his energy and health. Sustained
"voluntary" interest is far more fatiguing than involuntary
interest, and where fatigue is already present it becomes
difficult and perhaps impossible. Thus after much work, whether
physical or mental, during and after illness--especially in
influenza, in neurasthenic states generally, or where there is an
inner conflict--interest in its adult form is at a low ebb.

There are two main directions which interest may take, because
there are two worlds in which we live. There is the inner world
of our feelings, our thoughts, our desires and our
struggles,[1]--and there is the outer world, with its people, its
things, its hostilities, its friendships, its problems and facts,
its attractions and repulsions. Man divides his interest between
the two worlds, for in both of them are the values of existence.
The chief source of voluntary interest lies in desire and value,
and though these are frequently in coalescence, so that the thing
we desire is the thing we value, more often they are not in
coalescence and then we have the divided self that James so
eloquently describes. So there are types of men to whom the outer
world, whether it is in its "other people," or its things, or its
facts, or its attractions and repulsions, is the chief source of
interest and these are the objective types, exteriorized folks,
whose values lie in the goods they can accumulate, or the people
they can help, or the external power they exercise, or the
knowledge they possess of the phenomena of the world, or the
things they can do with their hands. These are on the whole
healthy-minded, finding in their pursuits and interest a real
value, rarely stopping from their work to ask, "Why do I work? To
what end? Are things real?" Contrasted with them are those whose
gaze is turned inward, who move through life carrying on the
activities of the average existence but absorbed in their
thoughts, their emotions, their desires, their
conflicts,--perhaps on their sensations and coenaesthetic
streams. Though there is no sharp line of division between the
two types, and all of us are blends in varying degrees, these
latter are the subjective introspective folk, interiorized,
living in the microcosmos, and much more apt than the objective
minded to be "sick souls" obsessed with "whys and wherefores."
They are endlessly putting to themselves unanswerable questions,
are apt to be the mentally unbalanced, or, but now and then, they
furnish the race with one whose answers to the meaning of life
and the direction of efforts guide the steps of millions.

[1] Herbert Spencer's description of these two worlds is the best
in literature. "Principles of Psychology."


There is a good and a bad side to the two types of interest. The
objective minded conquer the world in dealing with what they call
reality. They bridge the water and dig up the earth; they invent,
they plow, they sell and buy, they produce and distribute wealth,
and they deal with the education that teaches how to do all these
things. They find in the outer world an unalterable sense of
reality, and they tend rather naively to accept themselves, their
interests and efforts as normal. In their highest forms they are
the scientist, reducing to law this tangle of outer realities, or
the artist, who though he is a hybrid with deep subjective and
objective interest, nevertheless remodels the outer world to his
concept of beauty. These objective-minded folk, the bulk of the
brawn and in lesser degree of the brain of the world, are apt to
be "materialists," to value mainly quantity and to be
self-complacent. Of course, since no man is purely objective,
there come to them as to all moments of brooding over the eggs of
their inner life, when they wonder whether they have reached out
for the right things and whether the goods they seek or have are
worth while. Such introspective interest comes on them when they
are alone and the outer world does not reach in, or when they
have witnessed death and misfortune, or when sickness and fatigue
have reduced them to a feeling of weakness. For it is true that
the objective minded are more often robust, hearty, with more
natural lust, passion and desire than your introspectionists,
more virile and less sensitive to fine impressions.

The introspectionists, culling, chewing the cud of their
experiences and sensations, find in their own reactions the
realities. In fact, interested in consciousness, they are
sometimes bold enough to deny the realities of anything else.
Where the others build bridges, they build up the ideas of
eternal good and bad, of beauty, of the transitory and the
permanent, of now and eternity. They deal with abstract ideas,
and they luxuriate in emotions. They build up beliefs where
thought is the only reality and is omnipotent. They are the
founders of religious, cults, fads and fancies. They inculcate
the permanent ideals, because they are the only ones who interest
themselves in something beside the show of the universe.

But too often they are the sick folk. Without the hardihood and
the energy to conquer the outer world, they fall back on a world
requiring less energy to study, less energy to conquer. Sometimes
they develop a sense of unreality which vitiates all their
efforts to succeed; or they become hypochondriacs, feeling every
flutter of the heart and every vague ache and pain. The Hamlet
doubting type is an introspectionist and oscillates in his mind
from yea to nay on every question. Such as this type develop
ideas of compensation and power and become cranks and fake
prophets. Or else, and this we shall see again, they become
imbued with a sense of inferiority, feel futile as against the
red-blooded and shrink from others through pain.

Everywhere one sees these phases of interest in antagonism and
cooperation. The "healthy-minded" acknowledge the leadership of a
past introspectionist but despise the contemporary one as futile
and light-headed. The introverted (to use a Freudian term) call
the others Philistines, and mock them for their lack of spiritual
insight, yet in everything they do they depend for aid and
sustenance upon them. Introspection gives no exact measurements
of value, but it gives value and without it, there can be no
wisdom. But always it needs the correction of the outer world to
keep it healthy.

'No, sir; 'tis making the cow have a calf.'
About eleven at night we arrived at Montrose. We found but a
sorry inn, where I myself saw another waiter put a lump of sugar
with his fingers into Dr Johnson's lemonade, for which he called
him 'Rascal!' It put me in great glee that our landlord was an
Englishman. I rallied the Doctor upon this, and he
grew quiet. Both Sir John Hawkins's and Dr Burney's History
of Musick had then been advertised. I asked if this was not
unlucky: would not they hurt one another? JOHNSON. 'No, sir. They
will do good to one another. Some will buy the one, some
the other, and compare them; and so a talk is made about a thing,
and the books are sold.'

He was angry at me for proposing to carry lemons with us to Sky,
that he might be sure to have his lemonade.

'Sir,' said he, 'I do not wish to be thought that feeble man
who cannot do without any thing. Sir, it is very bad manners to
carry provisions to any man's house, as if he could not entertain
you. To an inferior, it is oppressive; to a superior, it is
insolent.'
Having taken the liberty, this evening, to remark to Dr
Johnson, that he very often sat quite silent for a long time,
even when in company with only a single friend, which I myself
had sometimes sadly experienced, he smiled and said, 'It is true,
sir.

Tom Tyers' (for so he familiarly called our ingenious friend,
who, since his death, has paid a biographical tribute to his memory)
'Tom Tyers described me the best.

He once said to me, "Sir, you are like a ghost: you never speak
till you are spoken to" [Footnote: This description of Dr
Johnson, appears to have been borrowed from Tom Jones, Book XI.
chap, ii. "The other, who like a ghost, only wanted to be spoke
to, readily answered.' &c.

Saturday, 21st August
Neither the Rev. Mr Nisbet, the established minister, nor the Rev.
Mr Spooner, the episcopal minister, were in town. Before breakfast,
we went and saw the town-hall, where is a good dancing-room,
and other rooms for tea-drinking.

The appearance of the town from it is very well; but many of
the houses are built with their ends to the street, which
looks awkward. When we came down from it, I met Mr Gleg, a
merchant here. He went with us to see the English chapel. It
is situated on a pretty dry spot, and there is a fine walk to it.
It is really an elegant building, both within and without. The
organ is adorned with green and gold. Dr Johnson gave a shilling
extraordinary to the clerk, saying, 'He belongs to an
honest church.' I put him in mind, that episcopals were but
DISSENTERS here; they were only TOLERATED. 'Sir,' said he, 'we are
here, as Christians in Turkey.' He afterwards went into an
apothecary's shop, and ordered some medicine for himself, and
wrote the prescription in technical characters. The boy took
him for a physician.

I doubted much which road to take, whether to go by the coast, or
by Lawrence Kirk and Monboddo. I knew Lord Monboddo and Dr Johnson
did not love each other: yet I was unwilling not to visit his
lordship; and was also curious to see them together. [Footnote:
There were several points of similarity between them: learning,
clearness of head, precision of speech, and a love of research
on many subjects which people in general do not investigate.
Foote paid Lord Monboddo the compliment of saying, that he was
'an Elzevir edition of Johnson'.

It has been shrewdly observed that Foote must have meant a diminutive,
or POCKET edition.]

I mentioned my doubts to Dr Johnson, who said, he would go two
miles out of his way to see Lord Monboddo. I therefore sent Joseph
forward, with the following note.

Montrose, 21 August.
My dear Lord,
Thus far I am come with Mr Samuel Johnson. We must be at Aberdeen
to-night. I know you do not admire him so much as I do; but I
cannot be in this country without making you a bow at your old
place, as I do not know if I may again have an opportunity of seeing
Monboddo.

Besides, Mr Johnson says, he would go two miles out of his
way to see Lord Monboddo. I have sent forward my servant, that
we may know if your lordship be at home. I am ever, my dear lord,

Most sincerely yours, James Boswell.

As we travelled onwards from Montrose, we had the Grampion
hills in our view, and some good land around us, but
void of trees and hedges.
Dr Johnson has said ludicrously, in his Journey, that the
HEDGES were of STONE; for, instead of the verdant THORN to
refresh the eye, we found the bare WALL or DIKE intersecting the
prospect. He observed, that it was wonderful to see a country so
divested, so denuded of trees.

We stopped at Lawrence Kirk, where our great grammarian, Ruddiman,
was once schoolmaster. We respectfully remembered that excellent
man and eminent scholar, by whose labours a knowledge of the
Latin language will be preserved in Scotland, if it shall be
preserved at all.

Lord Gardenston, one of our judges, collected money to raise a
monument to him at this place, which I hope will be well
executed. I know my father gave five guineas towards it. Lord
Gardenston is the proprietor of Lawrence Kirk, and has
encouraged the building of a manufacturing village, of which he
is exceedingly fond, and has written a pamphlet upon it, as if
he had founded Thebes, in which, however there are many useful
precepts strongly expressed. The village seemed to be irregularly
built, some of the houses being of clay, some of brick, and
some of brick and stone. Dr Johnson observed, they thatched
well here.

I was a little acquainted with Mr Forbes, the minister of the
parish.
I sent to inform him that a gentleman desired to see him.

He returned for answer, 'that he would not come to a stranger'.
I then gave my name, and he came. I remonstrated to him for
not coming to a stranger; and, by presenting him to Dr
Johnson, proved to him what a stranger might sometimes be. His
Bible inculcates 'be not forgetful to entertain strangers', and
mentions the same motive.

He defended himself by saying, he had once come to a stranger
who sent for him; and he found him 'a little worth person!'

Dr Johnson insisted on stopping at the inn, as I told him that Lord
Gardenston had furnished it with a collection of books, that
travellers might have entertainment for the mind, as well
as the body.
He praised the design, but wished there had been more books,
and those better chosen.

About a mile from Monboddo, where you turn off the road,
Joseph was waiting to tell us my lord expected us to
dinner. We drove over a wild moor. It rained, and the scene was
somewhat dreary. Dr Johnson repeated, with solemn emphasis,
Macbeth's speech on meeting the witches. As we travelled on, he
told me, 'Sir, you got into our club by doing what a man
can do. [Footnote: This, I find, is considered as obscure. I
suppose Dr Johnson meant, that I assiduously and earnestly
recommended myself to some of the members, as in a canvass for an
election into Parliament.] Several of the members wished to keep
you out. Burke told me, he doubted if you were fit for it: but,
now you are in, none of them are sorry. Burke says, that you
have so much good humour naturally, it is scarce a virtue.'
BOSWELL. 'They were afraid of you, sir, as it was you who proposed
me.'

JOHNSON. 'Sir, they knew, that if they refused you, they'd
probably never have got in another.
I'd have kept them all out. Beauclerk was very earnest for you.'
BOSWELL. 'Beauclerk has a keenness of mind which is very uncommon.'
JOHNSON. 'Yes, sir; and every thing comes from him so easily.
It appears to me that I labour, when I say a good thing.' BOSWELL.
'You are loud, sir; but it is not an effort of mind.'
Monboddo is a wretched place, wild and naked, with a poor old
house; though, if I recollect right, there are two turrets which
mark an old baron's residence. Lord Monboddo received us at his
gate most courteously; pointed to the Douglas arms upon his house,
and told us that his great-grandmother was of that family,
'In such houses,' said he, 'our ancestors lived, who were better
men than we.' 'No, no, my lord,' said Dr Johnson.

'We are as strong as they, and a great deal wiser.' This
was an assault upon one of Lord Monboddo's capital dogmas, and
I was afraid there would have been a violent altercation in the
very close, before we got into the house. But his lordship is
distinguished not only for 'ancient metaphysicks', but for ancient
politesse, la vieille cour, and he made no reply.

His lordship was drest in a rustick suit, and wore a little round
hat; he told us, we now saw him as Farmer Burnett, and we should
have his family dinner, a farmer's dinner.

He said, 'I should not have forgiven Mr Boswell, had he not
brought you here, Dr Johnson.' He produced a very long stalk of
corn, as a specimen of his crop, and said, 'You see here
the loetas segetes.' He added, that Virgil seemed to be as
enthusiastick a farmer as he, and was certainly a practical
one.
JOHNSON. 'It does not always follow, my lord, that a man who has
written a good poem on an art, has practised it. Philip Miller
told me, that in Philips's "Cyder", a poem, all the precepts were
just, and indeed better than in books written for the purpose of
instructing; yet Philips had never made cyder.'

I started the subject of emigration. JOHNSON. 'To a man of
mere animal life, you can urge no argument against going to
America, but that it will be some time before he will get the earth
to produce. But a man of any intellectual enjoyment will not
easily go and immerse himself and his posterity for ages
in barbarism.'
He and my lord spoke highly of Homer. JOHNSON. 'He had all the
learning of his age.

The shield of Achilles shews a nation in war, a nation in peace;
harvest sport, nay stealing.'

[Footnote: My note of this is much too short. Brevis esse
laboro, obscurus fio. Yet as I have resolved that THE VERY
Journal WHICH DR JOHNSON READ, shall be presented to the publick,
I will not expand the text in any considerable degree, though
I may occasionally supply a word to complete the sense, as
I fill up the blanks of abbreviation in the writing; neither
of which can be said to change the genuine Journal.
One of the best criticks of our age conjectures that the imperfect
passage above has probably been as follows: 'In his book we have
an accurate display of a nation in war, and a nation in peace;
the peasant is delineated as truly as the general; nay, even
harvest-sport, and the modes of ancient theft are described.']

MONBODDO. 'Ay, and what we' (looking to me)?'would call a
parliament-house scene; a cause pleaded.' JOHNSON. 'That is
part of the life of a nation in peace. And there are in
Homer such characters of heroes, and combinations of qualities
of heroes, that the united powers of mankind ever since have
not produced any but what are to be found there.'
MONBODDO. 'Yet no character is described.' JOHNSON. 'No; they
all develope themselves.

Agamemnon is always a gentleman-like character; he has always
<Greek>. That the ancients held so, is plain from this; that
Euripides, in his Hecuba, makes him the person to interpose.'
[Footnote: Dr Johnson modestly said, he had not read Homer
so much as he wished he had done. But this conversation shews
how well he was acquainted with the Moeonian bard; and he has
shewn it still more in his criticism upon Pope's Homer, in
his Life of that poet. My excellent friend, Mr Langton, told
me, he was once present at a dispute between Dr Johnson and Mr
Burke, on the comparative merits of Homer and Virgil, which was
carried on with extraordinary abilities on both sides. Dr Johnson
maintained the superiority of Homer.] MONBODDO.
'The history of manners is the most valuable. I never set a
high value on any other history.' JOHNSON. 'Nor I; and therefore
I esteem biography, as giving us what comes near to ourselves,
what we can turn to use.' BOSWELL. 'But in the course of
general history, we find manners. In wars, we see the dispositions
of people, their degrees of humanity, and other particulars.'
JOHNSON. 'Yes; but then you must take all the facts to get this;
and it is but a little you get.' MONBODDO. 'And it is that little
which makes history valuable.' Bravo!
thought I; they agree like two brothers. MONBODDO. 'I am sorry,
Dr Johnson, you were not longer at Edinburgh, to receive the
homage of our men of learning.'

JOHNSON. 'My lord, I received great respect and great kindness.'
BOSWELL. 'He goes back to Edinburgh after our tour.' We talked
of the decrease of learning in Scotland, and the Muses' Welcome.
JOHNSON. 'Learning is much decreased in England, in my remembrance.'
MONBODDO. 'You, sir, have lived to see its decrease in England,
I its extinction in Scotland.' However, I brought him to confess
that the High School of Edinburgh did well. JOHNSON. 'Learning
has decreased in England, because learning will not do so
much for a man as formerly. There are other ways of getting
preferment. Few bishops are now made for their learning.
To be a bishop, a man must be learned in a learned age, factious
in a factious age; but always of eminence. Warburton is an
exception; though his learning alone did not raise him. He was
first an antagonist to Pope, and helped Theobald to publish his
Shakspeare; but, seeing Pope the rising man, when Crousaz attacked
his Essay on Man, for some faults which it has, and some which
it has not, Warburton defended it in the Review of that time.
This brought him acquainted with Pope, and he gained his friendship.

Pope introduced him to Allen, Allen married him to his niece:
so, by Allen's interest and his own, he was made a bishop. But
then his learning was the sine qua non: he knew how to make the
most of it; but I do not find by any dishonest means.' MONBODDO.
'He is a great man.' JOHNSON. 'Yes; he has great knowledge, great
power of mind.

Hardly any man brings greater variety of learning to
bear upon his point.' MONBODDO. 'He is one of the greatest
lights of your church.' JOHNSON.
'Why, we are not so sure of his being very friendly to us.
He blazes, if you will, but that is not always the steadiest
light. Lowth is another bishop who has risen by his learning.'

Dr Johnson examined young Arthur, Lord Monboddo's son, in Latin.
He answered very well; upon which he said, with complacency, 'Get
you gone! When King James comes back, [Footnote: I find, some doubt
has been entertained concerning Dr Johnson's meaning here. It is
to be supposed that he meant, 'when a king shall again be entertained
in Scotland'.] you shall be in the "Muses' Welcome"!' My lord and
Dr Johnson disputed a little, whether the savage or the London
shopkeeper had the best existence; his lordship, as usual, preferring
the savage.
My lord was extremely hospitable, and I saw both Dr Johnson and him
liking each other better every hour.
Dr Johnson having retired for a short time, his lordship spoke of
his conversation as I could have wished. Dr Johnson had said, 'I
have done greater feats with my knife than this;' though he had
eaten a very hearty dinner. My lord, who affects or believes he
follows an abstemious system, seemed struck with Dr Johnson's manner
of living. I had a particular satisfaction in being under the roof
of Monboddo, my lord being my father's old friend, and having been
always very good to me.We ALLOW a friend to say that we have acted wrongly
because we think he has our interest at heart, because he has
shown that he has this interest at heart, though his saying so
sometimes strains the friendship for a while. Friendship ideally
expects no material benefits, but it lives on the spiritual
benefit of sympathy and expressed interest and the flattery of a
taste in common. It is a unification of individuals that has been
glorified as the perfect relationship, since it has no
classifiable instinct behind it and is in a sense democracy at
its noblest. Friendship is easiest formed in youth, because men
are least selfish, least specialized at that time. As time goes
on, alas, our own interests and purposes narrow down in order
that we may succeed; there is less time and energy for
friendship.

Sex love is only in part made up of tender feeling. Passion,
admiration of beauty, desire of possession, the love of conquest,
take away from the "other" feeling that is the basis of
tenderness or true love. We desire so much for ourselves in sex
love that we have not so much capacity for tender feeling as we
usually think we have. The protests of eternal devotion and
unending self-sacrifice are sincere enough but they have this
proviso in the background: "You must give yourself to me." If the
lovers can also be friends, if they have a real harmony of
tastes, desires and ambitions, if they can recede their ego
feeling, know how to compromise, then this added to sex feeling
makes the most genuinely satisfying of all human relations, or at
least the most reciprocal. But the two human beings who fall in
love are rarely enough alike, and their relationship is rarely
one of equality; traditional duties and rights are not equal;
they will seek different things, and their relationship is too
close and intimate to be an easy one to maintain. Sex love and
marriage are different matters, for though they may be the same,
too often they are not. Rarely does sex love maintain itself
without marriage and marriage colors over sex love with parental
feelings, financial interests, home and its emotions, etc. In sex
gratification[1] there is the danger of all sensuous pleasure:
that a periodic appetite gratified often leaves behind it an
ennui, a distaste,--sometimes reaching dislike--of the entire act
and associations.

[1] Stanley Hall says that after sex gratification there is
"taedium vitae," weariness of life. In unsanctioned sex
gratification this is extreme and takes on either bitter
self-reproach or else a hate of the partner. But this is due to
the inner conflict rather than the sex act.


Is all tender feeling, all love, sexual in its essential nature?
The Freudians say yes to this, or what amounts to yes. All mother
love arises from the sex sphere, and it cannot be denied that in
the passionate desire to fondle, to kiss and even to bite there
is something very like the excitement of sex. But there is
something very different in the wish for self-sacrifice, the pity
for the helpless state, the love of the littleness. Women, when
they love men, often add maternal feeling to it, but mainly they
love their strength, size and vigor; and there tenderness and
passion differ. Certainly there seems little of the sexual in the
love of a father for his baby,[1] though the Freudians do not
hesitate in their use of the term homosexual. Apparently all
children have incestuous desire for their parents, if we are to
trust Freud. Without entering into detailed reasoning, I disavow
any truly sexual element in tender feeling. It is part of the
reception we give to objects having a favorable relation to
ourselves. Indeed, we give it to our houses, our dogs, our
cattle; our pipes are hallowed by friendly association, and so
with our books, our clothes and our homes. We extend it in deep,
full measure to the very rocks and rills of our native land or to
some place where we spent happy or tender days. Tender feeling,
love, is inclusive of much of the sex emotion, and the
characteristic mistake of the Freudians of identifying somewhat
similar things has here been made.

[1] It's a very difficult world to live in, if we are to trust
the Freudians. If your boy child loves his mother, that's
heterosexual; if he loves his father, that's homosexual; and the
love of a girl child for her parents simply reverses the above
formula. If your wife says of the baby boy, "How I love him! He
looks just like my father," be careful; that's a daughter-father
complex of a dangerous kind and means the most unhallowed things,
and may cause her to have a nervous breakdown some day!


Love, then, is this tender feeling made purposive and
intelligent. It is a sentiment, in Shand's phrase, and seeks the
good of its object. It may be narrow, it may be broad, it may be
intense or feeble, but in its organized sense it plans, fights
and cherishes. It has organized with it the primary
emotions,--fear if the object is in danger, or anger is evoked
according to the circumstances; joy if the object of love is
enhanced or prospers; sorrow if it is lost or injured under
circumstances that make the lover helpless. Love is not only the
tenderest feeling, but it is also the most heroic and desperate
fighter in behalf of the loved one. Here we are face to face with
the contradictions that we always meet when we personify a
quality or make an abstraction. Love may do the most hateful
things; love may stunt, the character of the lover and the
beloved. In other words, love, tender feeling, must be conjoined
with intelligence, good judgment, determination and fairness
before it is useful. It would be a nice question to determine
just how much harm misguided love has done.

What is pity? Though objects of love always elicit pity, when
helpless or injured, objects of pity are not necessarily objects
of love. In fact, we may pity through contempt. Objective pity is
a type of tender feeling in which there is little or no
self-feeling. We do not extend the ego to the piteous object. We
desire to help, even though the object of pity is an enemy or
disgusting. One of the commonest struggles of life is that
between self-interest and pity,--and the selfish resent any
situation that arouses their pity, because they dislike to give.
Pity tends to disappear from the life of the soldier and is,
indeed, a trait he does not need; in the lives of the strong and
successful, pity is apt to be a hindering quality. In a world in
which competition is keen, the cooperative gentle qualities
hinder success. The weak seek the pity of others; they need it;
and the pity-seeker is a very distinct type. The strong and proud
hate to be pitied, and when wounded they hide, shun their friends
and keep the semblance of strength with a brave face. Pity
directed toward oneself as the object is self-pity,--a quality
found in children and in a certain amiable, weak, egoistic type,
whose eyes are always full of tears as they talk of themselves.
Of course, at times, we are all prone to this vice of character,
but there are some chronically afflicted.

Certain so-called sentimentalists are those who die, tribute
their pity in an erratic fashion. These are the vegetarians who
are sad because it is wrong to kill for food; yet they wear
without compunction the leather of cattle who have neither
committed suicide nor died of old age. And the
anti-vivisectionists view without any stir of pity the children
of the slums and the sick of all kinds. Pity raises man to the
divine but, like all the gentle qualities, it needs guidance by
reason and common sense before it is of any value.

Just as there are objects and individuals recognized or believed
to be as somehow favorable and who evoke tender feeling, so there
are objects and individuals regarded as unfavorable, perhaps
dangerous, who arouse aversion and hatred. The feeling thus
produced is the other great sentiment of life, which on the whole
organizes character and conduct on a great plane. Hatred, a
decidedly primitive reaction, still is powerful in the world and
is back of dissension of all kinds, from lawsuits to war. When
one hates he is attached to the hated object in a fashion just
the reverse of the attachment of love; joy, anger, fear and
sorrow arise under exactly the opposite circumstances, and the
aim and end of hate is to block, thwart and destroy the hated
one. The earlier history of man lays emphasis on the activities
of hate,--war, feats of arms, individual feuds. Hate, unlike
love, needs no moral code or teaching to bring it into activity;
it springs into being and constantly needs repression. Unlikeness
alone often brings it to life; to be too different from others is
recognized as a legitimate reason for hatred. The most important
cause is conflict of interest and wounding of self-feeling and
pride. Revengeful feeling, fostered by tradition and
"patriotism," caused many wars and in its lesser spheres of
operation is back of murders, assaults, insults and the lesser
categories of injuries of all kinds.

The prime emotion of hatred is anger; in its less intense aspect
of aversion it is disgust. The aim and end of anger is
destruction of the offending object; the aim and end of aversion
is removal, ejection. Hate may be and often is a noble sentiment,
though the trend of modern thought, as it minimizes personal
responsibility, is to eliminate hate against persons and
intellectualize hate so that it is reserved for the battle
against ideas. Whether you can really summon all your effort
against any one, against his plans, opinions and actions, unless
you have built up the steady sentiment of hatred for him, is a
nice psychological question. Hate is most intense in little
people, in persons absolutely convinced that their interests,
opinions and plans are sacred, sure of their superiority and
righteousness. Once let insight into yourself, your weakness and
your real motives creep into your mind and your hate against
opponents and obstructors must lessen. Those who realize most the
fallibility of men and women, to whom Pilate's question "What is
truth?" has added to it a more sceptical question, "What is
right," find it hard to hate. Therefore, such persons, the
broad-minded and the most deeply wise, are not the best fighters
for a cause, since their efforts are lessened by sympathy for the
opponent. Here is the marvel of Abraham Lincoln; rich with
insight, he could hate slavery and secession and yet not hate the
southern people. In that division of himself lies his greatness
and his suffering.

The disappearance of personal hate from the world can only come
when men realize the essential unity of mankind. For part of the
psychological origin of hate lies in unlikeness. Great unlikeness
in color and facial line seems to act as a challenge to the
feeling of superiority. Wherever a "different" group challenges
another's superiority, or enters into active competition for the
goods of life, there hate enters in its most virulent form. The
disappearance of the "unlike" feeling is very slow and is
hindered by the existence of small "particular" groups. Little
nationalities,[1] small sects, even exclusive clubs and circles
are means of generating difference and thus hate.

[1] The more nationalities, each with its claim to a great
destiny, the more wars! There is the essential danger and folly
of tribal patriotism.


We shall not enter into the origin of hate through the danger to
purpose, through rivalry among those not separated by unlikeness.
Hate seems to be a chronic anger, or at least that emotion kept
at a more or less constant level by perception of danger and the
threat at personal dignity and worth. Dr Johnson disapproved of
them, 'because,' said he, 'it makes the under story of a
house very dark, which greatly over-balances the conveniency,
when it is considered how small a part of the year it rains; how
few are usually in the street at such times; that many who are
might as well be at home; and the little that people suffer, supposing
them to be as much wet as they commonly are in walking a street'.

We fared but ill at our inn here; and Dr Johnson said, this was
the first time he had seen a dinner in Scotland that he could
not eat.

In the afternoon, we drove over the very heath where Macbeth
met the witches, according to tradition. Dr Johnson again solemnly
repeated
'"How far is't called to Fores? What are these, So wither'd,
and so wild in their attire That look not like the inhabitants
o' the earth.
And yet are on't "'
He repeated a good deal more of Macbeth. His recitation was grand
and affecting, and, as Sir Joshua Reynolds has observed to me,
had no more tone than it should have: it was the better for
it. He then parodied the 'All-hail' of the witches to Macbeth,
addressing himself to me. I had purchased some land called Dalblair;
and, as in Scotland it is customary to distinguish landed men by
the name of their estates, I had thus two titles, Dalblair and Young
Auchinleck.

So my friend, in imitation of
All hail Macbeth! hail to thee, Thane of Cawdor!

condescended to amuse himself with uttering
All hail Dalblair! hail to thee, Laird of Auchinleck!

We got to Fores at night, and found an admirable inn, in which
Dr Johnson was pleased to meet with a landlord who styled himself
'Wine-Cooper, from London'.

Friday, 27th August
It was dark when we came to Fores last night; so we did not see
what is called King Duncan's monument. I shall now mark
some gleanings of Dr Johnson's conversation. I spoke of Leonidas,
and said there were some good passages in it. JOHNSON. 'Why,
you must SEEK for them.' He said, Paul Whitehead's Manners was
a poor performance.

Speaking of Derrick, he told me he had a kindness for him, and
had often said, that if his letters had been written by one of a
more established name, they would have been thought very
pretty letters.

This morning I introduced the subject of the origin of evil.
JOHNSON.
'Moral evil is occasioned by free will, which implies choice between
good and evil. With all the evil that there is, there is no
man but would rather be a free agent, than a mere machine without
the evil; and what is best for each individual, must be best for
the whole. If a man would rather be the machine, I cannot argue
with him. He is a different being from me.' BOSWELL. 'A
man, as a machine, may have agreeable sensations; for instance,
he may have pleasure in musick.'

JOHNSON, 'No, sir, he can not have pleasure in musick; at least no
power of producing musick; for he who can produce musick may
let it alone: he who can play upon a fiddle may break it: such
a man is not a machine.' This reasoning satisfied me. It
is certain, there cannot be a free agent, unless there is the
power of being evil as well as good.
We must take the inherent possibilities of things into consideration,
in our reasonings or conjectures concerning the works of God.

We came to Nairn to breakfast. Though a county town and
royal burgh, it is a miserable place. Over the room where
we sat, a girl was spinning wool with a great wheel, and
singing, an Erse song: 'I'll warrant you,' said Dr Johnson, 'one
of the songs of Ossian.' He then repeated these lines:

'"Verse sweetens toil, however rude the sound.
All at her work the village maiden sings; Nor, while she turns
the giddy wheel around Revolves the sad vicissitude of things."'

I thought I had heard these lines before. JOHNSON. 'I fancy
not, sir; for they are in a detached poem, the name of which I
do not remember, written by one Giffard, a parson.'
I expected Mr Kenneth M'Aulay, the minister of Calder, who
published the history of St Kilda, a book which Dr Johnson liked,
would have met us here, as I had written to him from Aberdeen.
But I received a letter from him, telling me that he could not
leave home, as he was to administer the sacrament the following
Sunday, and earnestly requesting to see us at his manse. 'We'll
go,' said Dr Johnson; which we accordingly did. Mrs M'Aulay
received us, and told us her husband was in the church
distributing tokens. [Footnote: In Scotland, there is a great
deal of preparation before administering the sacrament. The
minister of the parish examines the people as to their fitness,
and to those of whom he approves gives little pieces of tin, stamped
with the name of the parish, as TOKENS, which they must produce
before receiving it. This is a species of priestly power,
and sometimes may be abused. I remember a lawsuit brought
by a person against his parish minister, for refusing him admission
to that sacred ordinance.]

We arrived between twelve and one o'clock, and it was near
three before he came to us.

Dr Johnson thanked him for his book, and said 'it was a very
pretty piece of topography'. M'Aulay did not seem much to
mind the compliment. From his conversation, Dr Johnson was
persuaded that he had not written the book which goes under his
name. I myself always suspected so; and I have been told it was
written by the learned Dr John M'Pherson of Sky, from the
materials collected by M'Aulay. Dr Johnson said privately to me,
'There is a combination in it of which M'Aulay is not capable.'
However, he was exceedingly hospitable; and, as he obligingly
promised us a route for our tour through the Western Isles, we
agreed to stay with him all night.

After dinner, we walked to the old castle of Calder (pronounced
Cawder), the Thane of Cawdor's seat. I was sorry that my
friend, this 'prosperous gentleman', was not there. The old
tower must be of great antiquity. There is a draw-bridge,--what
has been a moat--and an ancient court. There is a hawthorn-tree,
which rises like a wooden pillar through the rooms of the castle;
for, by a strange conceit, the walls have been built round it.
The thickness of the walls, the small slaunting windows, and a
great iron door at the entrance on the second story as you ascend
the stairs, all indicate the rude times in which this castle was
erected. There were here some large venerable trees.

I was afraid of a quarrel between Dr Johnson and Mr
M'Aulay, who talked slightingly of the lower English clergy.

The Doctor gave him a frowning look, and said, 'This is a day of
novelties: I have seen old trees in Scotland, and I have heard
the English clergy treated with disrespect.'
I dreaded that a whole evening at Caldermanse would be heavy;
however, Mr Grant, an intelligent and well-bred minister in
the neighbourhood, was there, and assisted us by his conversation.
Dr Johnson, talking of hereditary occupations in the Highlands,
said, 'There is no harm in such a custom as this; but it is
wrong to enforce it, and oblige a man to be a taylor or
a smith, because his father has been one.' This custom,
however, is not peculiar to our Highlands; it is well
known that in India a similar practice prevails.

Mr M'Aulay began a rhapsody against creeds and confessions.
Dr Johnson shewed, that 'what he called "imposition", was
only a voluntary declaration of agreement in certain articles of
faith, which a church has a right to require, just as
any other society can insist on certain rules being observed
by its members. Nobody is compelled to be of the church, as nobody
is compelled to enter into a society.' This was a very clear
and just view of the subject: but, M'Aulay could not be driven out
of his track.

Dr Johnson said, 'Sir, you are a BIGOT TO LAXNESS.'
Mr M'Aulay and I laid the map of Scotland before us; and he pointed
out a rout for us from Inverness, by Fort Augustus, to Glenelg,
Sky, Mull, Icolmkill, Lorn, and Inveraray, which I wrote down. As
my father was to begin the northern circuit about the 18th of
September, it was necessary for us to make our tour with great
expedition, so as to get to Auchinleck before he set out,
or to protract it, so as not to be there till his return, which
would be about the 10th of October. By M'Aulay's calculation,
we were not to land in Lorn till the 20th of September. I
thought that the interruptions by bad days, or by occasional
excursions, might make it ten days later; and I thought too, that
we might perhaps go to Benbecula, and visit Clanranald, which
would take a week of itself.

Dr Johnson went up with Mr Grant to the library, which consisted
of a tolerable collection; but the Doctor thought it rather a
lady's library, with some Latin books in it by chance, than
the library of a clergyman. It had only two of the Latin fathers,
and one of the Greek fathers in Latin. I doubted whether Dr Johnson
would be present at a Presbyterian prayer. I told Mr M'Aulay
so, and said that the Doctor might sit in the library while
we were at family worship. Mr M'Aulay said, he would omit it,
rather than give Dr Johnson offence: but I would by no means
agree that an excess of politeness, even to so great a man,
should prevent what I esteem as one of the best pious
regulations. I know nothing more beneficial, more comfortable,
more agreeable, than that the little societies of each
family should regularly assemble, and unite in praise
and prayer to our heavenly Father, from whom we daily receive so
much good, and may hope for more in a higher state of existence.
I mentioned to Dr Johnson the over-delicate scrupulosity of
our host. He said, he had no objection to hear the
prayer. This was a pleasing surprise to me; for he refused to go
and hear Principal Robertson preach. 'I will hear him,' said
he, 'if he will get up into a tree and preach; but I will not
give a sanction, by my presence, to a Presbyterian assembly.'

Mr Grant having prayed, Dr Johnson said, his prayer was a
very good one; but objected to his not having introduced the
Lord's Prayer.

He told us, that an Italian of some note in London said once to
him, 'We have in our service a prayer called the Pater Noster,
which is a very fine composition. I wonder who is the author of
it.' A singular instance of ignorance in a man of some
literature and general inquiry!

Saturday, 28th August
Dr Johnson had brought a Sallust with him in his pocket from
Edinburgh. He gave it last night to Mr M'Aulay's son, a smart
young lad about eleven years old. Dr Johnson had given an
account of the education at Oxford, in all its gradations. The
advantage of being servitor to a youth of little fortune struck
Mrs M'Aulay much. I observed it aloud. Dr Johnson very handsomely
and kindly said, that, if they would send their boy to him, when
he was ready for the university, he would get him made a servitor,
and perhaps would do more for him. He could not promise to do
more; but would undertake for the servitorship. [Footnote: Dr
Johnson did not neglect what he had undertaken. By his interest
with the Rev. Dr Adams, master of Pembroke College, Oxford,
where he was educated for some time, he obtained a servitorship
for young M'Aulay.

But it seems he had other views; and I believe went abroad.]
I should have mentioned that Mr White, a Welchman, who has
been many years factor (i.e. steward) on the estate of Calder,
drank tea with us last night, and upon getting a note from Mr
M'Aulay, asked us to his house. We had not time to accept
of his invitation. He gave us a letter of introduction to Mr
Ferne, master of stores at Fort George.
He shewed it to me. It recommended 'two celebrated
gentlemen; no less than Dr Johnson, AUTHOR OF HIS DICTIONARY,
and Mr Boswell, known at Edinburgh by the name of Paoli'.

He said, he hoped I had no objection to what he had written;
if I had, he would alter it. I thought it was a pity to check
his effusions, and acquiesced; taking care, however, to seal
the letter, that it might not appear that I had read
it.

A conversation took place, about saying grace at breakfast (as
we do in Scotland) as well as at dinner and supper; in
which Dr Johnson said, 'It is enough if we have stated seasons of
prayer; no matter when. A man may as well pray when he mounts
his horse, or a woman when she milks her cow, (which Mr Grant
told us is done in the Highlands), as at meals; and custom is
to be followed.' [Footnote: He could not bear to have it thought
that, in any instance whatever, the Scots are more pious than
the English. I think grace as proper at breakfast as at any
other meal. It is the pleasantest meal we have. Dr Johnson has
allowed the peculiar merit of breakfast in Scotland.]

We proceeded to Fort George. When we came into the square, I sent
a soldier with the letter to Mr Ferne. He came to us immediately,
and along with him came Major Brewse of the Engineers, pronounced
BRUCE.
He said he believed it was originally the same Norman name
with Bruce.
That he had dined at a house in London, where were three Bruces,
one of the Irish line, one of the Scottish line, and himself of
the English line. He said he was shewn it in the Herald's
office spelt fourteen different ways. I told him the different
spellings of my name. Dr Johnson observed, that there had been
great disputes about the spelling of Shakspear's name; at last
it was thought it would be settled by looking at the original
copy of his will; but, upon examining it, he was found to have
written it himself no less than three different ways.

Mr Ferne and Major Brewse first carried us to wait on Sir Eyre
Coote, whose regiment, the 37th, was lying here, and who then
commanded the fort. He asked us to dine with him, which we agreed
to do.

Before dinner we examined the fort. The Major explained the
fortification to us, and Mr Ferne gave us an account of the stores.

Dr Johnson talked of the proportions of charcoal and salt-petre in
making gunpowder, of granulating it, and of giving it a
gloss. He made a very good figure upon these topicks. He said
to me afterwards, that he had talked OSTENTATIOUSLY. We reposed
ourselves a little in Mr Ferne's house. He had every thing in
neat order as in England; and a tolerable collection of books. I
looked into Pennant's Tour in Scotland. He says little of this
fort; but that 'the barracks, &c. form several streets'. This is
aggrandizing. Mr Ferne observed, if he had said they form a
square, with a row of buildings before it, he would have given
a juster description. Dr Johnson remarked, 'how seldom
descriptions correspond with realities; and the reason is,
that people do not write them till some time after, and
then their imagination has added circumstances'.

We talked of Sir Adolphus Oughton. The Major said, he knew a
great deal for a military man. JOHNSON. 'Sir, you will find
few men, of any profession, who know more. Sir Adolphus is a very
extraordinary man; a man of boundless curiosity and unwearied
diligence.'
I know not how the Major contrived to introduce the contest between
Warburton and Lowth.

JOHNSON. 'Warburton kept his temper all along, while Lowth was in
a passion.

Lowth published some of Warburton's letters. Warburton drew
HIM on to write some very abusive letters, and then asked his leave
to publish them; which he knew Lowth could not refuse,
after what he had done. So that Warburton contrived that he
should publish, apparently with Lowth's consent, what could not
but shew Lowth in a disadvantageous light.' [Footnote: Here Dr
Johnson gave us part of a conversation held between a Great
Personage and him, in the library at the Queen's Palace, to the
course of which this contest was considered. I have been at
great pains to get that conversation as perfectly preserved as
possible. It may perhaps at some future time be given to the
publick.]
At three the drum beat for dinner. I, for a little while,
fancied myself a military man, and it pleased me. We went
to Sir Eyre Coote's, at the governour's house, and found him a
most gentleman-like man. His lady is a very agreeable woman,
with an uncommonly mild and sweet tone of voice. There was a
pretty large company: Mr Ferne, Major Brewse, and several officers.
Sir Eyre had come from the East Indies by land, through the
Desarts of Arabia. He told us, the Arabs could live five days
without victuals, and subsist for three weeks on nothing else
but the blood of their camels, who could lose so much of it as
would suffice for that time, without being exhausted. He highly
praised the virtue of the Arabs; their fidelity, if they undertook
to conduct any person; and said, they would sacrifice their lives
rather than let him be robbed. Dr Johnson, who is always for
maintaining the superiority of civilized over uncivilized men, said,
'Why, sir, I can see no superiour virtue in this. A serjeant and
twelve men, who are my guard, will die, rather than that I shall
be robbed.' Colonel Pennington, of the 37th regiment, took up the
argument with a good deal of spirit and ingenuity. PENNINGTON. 'But
the soldiers are compelled to this, by fear of punishment.' JOHNSON.
'Well, sir, the Arabs are compelled by the fear of infamy.' PENNINGTON.
'The soldiers have the same fear of infamy, and the fear of punishment
besides; so have less virtue; because they act less voluntarily.'
Lady Coote observed very well, that it ought to be known if there
was not, among the Arabs, some punishment for not being faithful
on such occasions.
We talked of the stage. I observed, that we had not now such a
company of actors as in the last age; Wilks, Booth, &c. &c. JOHNSON.
'You think so, because there is one who excels all the rest so much:
you compare them with Garrick, and see the deficiency. Garrick's
great distinction is his universality. He can represent all modes
of life, but that of an easy fine-bred gentleman.' PENNINGTON. 'He
should give over playing young parts.' JOHNSON. 'He does not take
them now; but he does not leave off those which he has been used
to play, because he does them better than any one else can do them.The tragedy of a great
founder of religion like Buddha or Christ is that though he gives
out a great pure principle, his followers must have, demand and
evolve a dogmatic religion with fixed ceremonials. Man, on the
whole, does not want to choose; he wants to have the feeling that
he ought to do this or that according to a code laid down by
authority. This will make a real democracy always impossible.

However the sentiment of duty arises, it becomes the central
feeling in all inner conflicts, and it wrestles with inclination
and the pleasant choice. Duty is the great inhibitor, but also it
says "Thou shalt!" Ideally, duty involves self-sacrifice, and
practically man dislikes self-sacrifice save where love is very
strong. Duty chains a man to his task where he is inclined for a
holiday. Duty may demand a man's life, and that sacrifice seems
easier for men to make than the giving up of power and pelf. (In
the late war it was no great trouble to pass laws conscripting
life; it was impossible to pass laws conscripting wealth. It was
easier for a man to allow his son to go to war than to give up
his wealth en masse.)

The power of the feeling of duty and right over men is very
variable. There are a few to whom the feeling of "ought" is all
powerful; they cannot struggle against it, even though they wish
to. All of their goings, comings and doings are governed thereby,
and even though they find the rest of the world dropping from
them, they resist the herd. For the mass of men duty governs a
few relationships--to family and country--and even here
self-interest is camouflaged by the term "duty" in the phrase "a
man owes a duty to himself." This is the end of real duty. The
average man or woman makes a duty of nonessentials, of
ceremonials, but is greatly moved by the cry of duty if it comes
from authority or from those he respects. He fiercely resents it
if told he is not doing his duty, but is quick to tell others
they are not doing theirs.

There is also a group in whom the sense of duty is almost
completely lacking, or rather fails to govern action. Ordinarily
these are spoken of as lacking moral fiber, but in reality the
organizing energy of character and the inhibition of the impulse
to seek pleasure and present desire is feeble. Sometimes there is
lack of affection toward others, little of the real glow of
tender feeling, either towards children[1] or parents or any one.
Though these are often emotional, they are not, in the good
meaning of the term, sentimental.

[1] It is again to be emphasized that the most vital instincts
may be lacking. Even the maternal feeling may be absent, not only
in the human mother but in the animal mother. So we need not be
surprised if there are those with no sense of right or duty.


Is the sentiment of duty waning? The alarmists say it is and
point to the increase of divorce, falling off in church
attendance, and the unrest among the laboring classes as evidence
that there is a decadence. Pleasure is sought, excitement is the
goal, and sober, solid duty is "forgotten." They point out a
resemblance to the decadent days of Rome, in the rise of luxury
and luxurious tastes, and indicate that duty and the love of
luxury cannot coexist. Woman has forgotten her duty to bear
children and to maintain the home and man has forgotten his duty
to God.

Superficially these critics are right. There is a demand for a
more satisfying life, involving less self sacrifice on the part
of those who have in the past made the bulk of the sacrifices.
Woman, demanding equality, refuses to be regarded as merely a
child bearer and is become a seeker of luxury. The working man,
looking at the world he has built, now able to read, write and
vote, asks why the duty is all on his side. In other words, a
demand for justice, which is merely reciprocal, universal duty,
has weakened something of the sense of duty. In fact, that is the
first effect of the feeling of injustice, of unjust inequality.
Dealing with the emancipated, the old conception of duty as
loyalty under all conditions has not worked, and we need new
ideals of duty on the part of governments and governing groups
before we can get the proper ideals of duty in the governed.

Some of those ideals are commencing to be heard. International
duty for governments is talked of and some are bold to say that
national feeling prevents a real feeling of duty to the world, to
man. These claim that duty must have its origin in the extension
of tender feeling, in fraternity, to all men. In a lesser way
business is commencing to substitute for its former motto,
"Handelschaft ist keine Bruderschaft" (business is no
brotherhood), the ideal of service, as the duty of business.
Everywhere we are commencing to hear of "social duty," of
obligation to the lesser and unfortunate, of the responsibility
of the leaders to the led, of the well to the sick, of the
law-abiding to the criminal. Strange notion, this last, but one
at bottom sound and practical.

In the end, the true sense of duty is in a sense of individual
responsibility. Our age feels this as no other age has felt it.
Other ages have placed responsibility on the Church, on God and
on the State. Difficult and onerous as is the burden, we are
commencing to place duty on the individual, and in that respect
we are not in the least a decadent generation.


CHAPTER IX. ENERGY RELEASE AND THE EMOTIONS

One of the problems in all work is to place things in their right
order, in the order of origin and importance. This difficulty is
almost insoluble when one studies the character of man. As we see
him in operation, the synthesis is so complete that we can hardly
discern the component parts. Inheritance, social pressure,
excitement, interest, love, hate, self-interest, duty and
obligation, --these are not unitary in the least and there is
constantly a false dissection to be made, an artefact, in order
that clearness in presentation may be obtained.

We see men as discharging energy in work and play, in the
activities that help or hurt themselves and the race. They obtain
that energy from the world without, from the sunshine, the air,
the plants and the animals; it is built up in their bodies, it is
discharged either because some inner tension builds up a desire
or because some outer stimulus, environmental or social, directs
it. Though we have no way of measuring one man's energy against
another, we say, perhaps erroneously, "He is very energetic," or
"He is not"; "He is tireless," or "He breaks down easily." As
students of character, we must take this question of the energies
of men into account as integral in our study.

Granting that the human being takes in energy as food and drink
and builds it up into dischargeable tissues, we are not further
concerned with the details of its physiology. How does the
feeling of energy arise, what increases the energy discharge and
what blocks, inhibits or lowers it? For from day to day, from
hour to hour, we are conscious either of a desire to be active, a
feeling of capacity or the reverse. We depend on that feeling of
capacity to guide us, and though it is organic, it has its
mysterious disappearances and marvelous reenforcements.

It arises, so we assume, from the visceral-neuronic activities,
subconsciously, in the sense we have used that word. It therefore
fluctuates with health, with fatigue, with the years. We marvel
at the energy of childhood and youth, and the deepest sadness we
have is the depletion of energy-feeling in old age. We love
energy in ourselves and we yield admiration, willing or
unwilling, to its display in others. The Hero, the leader, is
always energetic. In our times, in America, we demand "pep,"
action and energy-display as an essential in our play and in our
work, and we worship quite too frankly where all men have always
worshiped.

What besides the organic activity, besides health and well-being,
excites the feeling of energy and what depresses it?

1. This feeling is excited by the society of others, by the
herd-feeling, and depressed by long-continued solitude or
loneliness. The stimuli that come from other people's faces,
voices, contacts--their emotions, feelings and manifestations of
energy--are those we are best adapted to react to, those most
valuable in stirring us up. Scenery, the grandeur of the outer
world, finally depress the most of us, and we can bear these
things best in company. Who has not, on a long railroad journey,
watched with weariness and flickering interest valley and hill
and meadow swing by and then sat up with energy and definite
attention as a human being passed along on some rural road?
Talisker, Mr M'Queen, and I, walked out, and looked at no less
than fifteen different waterfalls near the house, in the space
of about a quarter of a mile. We also saw Cuchullin's well, said
to have been the favourite spring of that ancient hero. I
drank of it. The water is admirable. On the shore are many stones
full of crystallizations in the heart.

Though our obliging friend, Mr M'Lean, was but the young laird,
he had the title of Col constantly given him. After dinner he
and I walked to the top of Prieshwell, a very high rocky hill,
from whence there is a view of Barra, the Long Island, Bernera,
the Loch of Dunvegan, part of Rum, part of Rasay, and a vast deal
of the isle of Sky.

Col, though he had come into Sky with an intention to be at
Dunvegan, and pass a considerable time in the island, most
politely resolved first to conduct us to Mull, and then to
return to Sky. This was a very fortunate circumstance; for he
planned an expedition for us of more variety than merely going
to Mull. He proposed we should flee the islands of Egg, Muck,
Col, and Tyr-yi.

In all these islands he could shew us every thing worth seeing;
and in Mull he said he should be as if at home, his father having
lands there, and he a farm.

Dr Johnson did not talk much to-day, but seemed intent in listening
to the schemes of future excursion, planned by Col. Dr Birch,
however, being mentioned, he said, he had more anecdotes than
any man. I said, Percy had a great many; that he flowed with
them like one of the brooks here. JOHNSON. 'If Percy is like one
of the brooks here. Birch was like the river Thames. Birch excelled
Percy in that, as much as Percy excels Goldsmith.'

I mentioned Lord Hailes as a man of anecdote.
He was not pleased with him, for publishing only such memorials
and letters as were unfavourable for the Stuart family. 'If,'
said he, 'a man fairly warns you, "I am to give all the ill;
do you find the good", he may: but if the object which he
professes be to give a view of a reign, let him tell all the
truth. I would tell truth of the two Georges, or of that
scoundrel, King William. Granger's Biographical History is
full of curious anecdote, but might have been better done.
The dog is a Whig. I do not like much to see a Whig in any dress;
but I hate to see a Whig in a parson's gown.'

Saturday, 25th September
It was resolved that we should set out, in order to return to Slate,
to be in readiness to take boat whenever there should be a fair
wind.

Dr Johnson remained in his chamber writing a letter, and it was
long before we could get him into motion.

He did not come to breakfast, but had it sent to him. When he
had finished his letter, it was twelve o'clock, and we should
have set out at ten. When I went up to him, he said to me,
'Do you remember a song which begins,
"Every island is a prison Strongly guarded by the sea; Kings and
princes, for that reason, Prisoners are, as well as we."'
I suppose he had been thinking of our confined situation.

He would fain have gone in a boat from hence, instead of
riding back to Slate.
A scheme for it was proposed. He said, 'We'll not be
driven tamely from it': but it proved impracticable.

We took leave of M'Leod and Talisker, from whom we parted with
regret.
Talisker, having been bred to physick, had a tincture of scholarship
in his conversation, which pleased Dr Johnson, and he had some
very good books; and being a colonel in the Dutch service, he
and his lady, in consequence of having lived abroad, had introduced
the ease and politeness of the continent into this rude region.

Young Col was now our leader. Mr M'Queen was to accompany us half
a day more. We stopped at a little hut, where we saw an old woman
grinding with the quern, the ancient Highland instrument, which
it is said was used by the Romans, but which, being very slow
in its operation, is almost entirely gone into disuse.

The walls of the cottages in Sky, instead of being one compacted
mass of stones, are often formed by two exterior surfaces of stone,
filled up with earth in the middle, which makes them very warm.

The roof is generally bad. They are thatched, sometimes with straw,
sometimes with heath, sometimes with fern. The thatch is secured
by ropes of straw, or of heath; and, to fix the ropes, there
is a stone tied to the end of each. These stones hang round the
bottom of the roof, and make it look like a lady's hair in papers;
but I should think that, when there is wind, they would come
down, and knock people on the head.

We dined at the inn at Sconser, where I had the pleasure to find
a letter from my wife. Here we parted from our learned companion,
Mr Donald M'Queen. Dr Johnson took leave of him very affectionately,
saying, 'Dear sir, do not forget me!' We settled, that he should
write an account of the Isle of Sky, which Dr Johnson promised
to revise. He said, Mr M'Queen should tell all that he could;
distinguishing what he himself knew, what was traditional, and
what conjectural.

We sent our horses round a point of land, that we might shun some
very bad road; and resolved to go forward by sea. It was seven
o'clock when we got into our boat. We had many showers, and it
soon grew pretty dark. Dr Johnson sat silent and patient. Once
he said, as he looked on the black coast of Sky--black, as being
composed of rocks seen in the dusk--'This is very solemn.'

Our boatmen were rude singers, and seemed so like wild Indians,
that a very little imagination was necessary to give one an
impression of being upon an American river.

We landed at Strolimus, from whence we got a guide to walk before
us, for two miles, to Corrichatachin. Not being able to procure
a horse for our baggage, I took one portmanteau before me, and
Joseph another. We had but a single star to light us on our
way. It was about eleven when we arrived. We were most
hospitably received by the master and mistress, who were just
going to bed, but, with unaffected ready kindness, made a good
fire, and at twelve o'clock at night had supper on the
table.

James Macdonald, of Knockow, Kingsburgh's brother, whom we had
seen at Kingsburgh, was there. He shewed me a bond granted by the
late Sir James Macdonald, to old Kingsburgh, the preamble
of which does so much honour to the feelings of that much-lamented
gentleman, that I thought it worth transcribing. It was as
follows:--
I, Sir James Macdonald, of Macdonald, Baronet, now, after arriving
at my perfect age, from the friendship I bear to Alexander Macdonald
of Kingsburgh, and in return for the long and faithful services
done and performed by him to my deceased father, and to myself
during my minority, when he was one of my Tutors and Curators; being
resolved, now that the said Alexander Macdonald is advanced in
years, to contribute my endeavours for making his old age placid
and comfortable, therefore he grants him an annuity of fifty pounds
sterling.

Dr Johnson went to bed soon. When one bowl of punch was finished,
I rose, and was near the door, in my way up stairs to bed; but
Corrichatachin said, it was the first time Col had been in his
house, and he should have his bowl; and would not I join in drinking
it?

The heartiness of my honest landlord, and the desire of doing
social honour to our very obliging conductor, induced me to sit
down again.
Col's bowl was finished; and by that time we were well warmed. A
third bowl was soon made, and that too was finished. We
were cordial, and merry to a high degree; but of what passed I
have no recollection, with any accuracy.

I remember calling Corrichatachin by the familiar appellation of
Corri, which his friends do. A fourth bowl was made, by which
time Col, and young M'Kinnon, Corrichatachin's son, slipped away
to bed. I continued a little with Corri and Knockow; but at last
I left them. It was near five in the morning when I got to
bed.

Sunday, 26th September
I awaked at noon, with a severe head-ach. I was much vexed that
I should have been guilty of such a riot, and afraid of a reproof
from Dr Johnson. I thought it very inconsistent with that conduct
which I ought to maintain, while the companion of the
Rambler. About one he came into my room, and accosted me, 'What,
drunk yet?' His tone of voice was not that of severe upbraiding;
so I was relieved a little.
'Sir,' said I, 'they kept me up.' He answered, 'No, you kept
them up, you drunken dog.' This he said with good-humoured English
pleasantry.
Soon afterwards, Corrichatachin, Col, and other friends assembled
round my bed. Corri had a brandy-bottle and glass with him,
and insisted I should take a dram.

'Ay,' said Dr Johnson, 'fill him drunk again. Do it in the
morning, that we may laugh at him all day. It is a
poor thing for a fellow to get drunk at night, and sculk to bed,
and let his friends have no sport.' Finding him thus jocular, I
became quite easy; and when I offered to get up, he very
good-naturedly said, 'You need be in no such hurry now.'
[Footnote: My ingenuously relating this occasional instance of
intemperance has I find been made the subject both of serious
criticism and ludicrous banter. With the banterers I shall not
trouble myself, but I wonder that those who pretend to the
appellation of serious criticks should not have had sagacity
enough to perceive that here, as in every other part of the present
work, my principal object was to delineate Dr Johnson's manners and
character.

In justice to him I would not omit an anecdote, which, though
in some degree to my own disadvantage, exhibits in so strong a
light the indulgence and good humour with which he could treat
those excesses in his friends, of which he highly disapproved.
In some other instances, the criticks have been equally wrong
as to the true motive of my recording particulars, the
objections to which I saw as clearly as they. But it would be
an endless talk for an authour to point out upon every occasion
the precise object he has in view.
Contenting himself with the approbation of readers of discernment
and taste, he ought not to complain that some are
found who cannot or will not understand him.] I took my host's
advice, and drank some brandy, which I found an effectual cure
for my head-ach. When I rose, I went into Dr Johnson's room, and
taking up Mrs M'Kinnon's prayer-book, I opened it at the twentieth
Sunday after Trinity, in the epistle for which I read,
'And be not drunk with wine, wherein there is excess.' Some
would have taken this as a divine interposition.

Mrs M'Kinnon told us at dinner, that old Kingsburgh, her father,
was examined at Mugstot, by General Campbell, as to the
particulars of the dress of the person who had come to his house
in woman's clothes, along with Miss Flora M'Donald; as the General
had received intelligence of that disguise. The particulars
were taken down in writing, that it might be seen how far
they agreed with the dress of the 'Irish girl' who went with Miss
Flora from the Long Island.
Kingsburgh, she said, had but one song, which he always sung
when he was merry over a glass. She dictated the words to
me, which are foolish enough:

Green sleeves and pudding pies, Tell me where my mistress lies, And
I'll be with her before the rise, Fiddle and aw' together.

May our affairs abroad succeed, And may our king come home
with speed, And all pretenders shake for dread, And let HIS
health go round.

To all our injured friends in need, This side and beyond the
Tweed!
Let all pretenders shake for dread, And let HIS health go
round.
Green sleeves, &c.

While the examination was going on, the present Talisker, who was
there as one of M'Leod's militia, could not resist the pleasantry
of asking Kingsburgh, in allusion to his only song, 'Had she GREEN
SLEEVES?'

Kingsburgh gave him no answer. Lady Margaret M'Donald was very angry
at Talisker for joking on such a serious occasion, as Kingsburgh
was really in danger of his life. Mrs M'Kinnon added that Lady
Margaret was quite adored in Sky. That when she travelled
through the island, the people ran in crowds before her, and took
the stones off the road, lest her horse should stumble and she
be hurt. Her husband, Sir Alexander, is also remembered with
great regard. We were told that every week a hogshead of claret
was drunk at his table.

This was another day of wind and rain; but good cheer and good
society helped to beguile the time. I felt myself comfortable
enough in the afternoon. I then thought that my last night's
riot was no more than such a social excess as may happen without
much moral blame; and recollected that some physicians
maintained, that a fever produced by it was, upon the whole, good
for health: so different are our reflections on the same subject,
at different periods; and such the excuses with which we palliate
what we know to be wrong.

Monday, 27th September
Mr Donald M'Leod, our original guide, who had parted from
us at Dunvegan, joined us again to-day. The weather was still so
bad that we could not travel. I found a closet here, with a good
many books, beside those that were lying about. Dr Johnson
told me, he found a library in his room at Talisker; and
observed, that it was one of the remarkable things of Sky, that
there were so many books in it.

Though we had here great abundance of provisions, it is remarkable
that Corrichatachin has literally no garden: not even a turnip, a
carrot or a cabbage.

 After dinner, we talked of the crooked spade
      used in Sky, already described, and they maintained
  that it was better than the usual
      garden-spade, and that there was an art in tossing it, by which
those who were accustomed to it could work very easily with it.

'Nay,' said Dr Johnson, 'it may be useful in land where there are
many stones to raise; but it certainly is not a good instrument
for digging good land.

A man may toss it, to be sure; but he will toss a light spade
much better: its weight makes it an incumbrance. A man MAY dig
any land with it; but he has no occasion for such a weight in
digging good land. You may take a field-piece to shoot sparrows;
but all the sparrows you can bring home will not be worth the
charge.' He was quite social and easy amongst them; and, though
he drank no fermented liquor, toasted Highland beauties with
great readiness.

His conviviality engaged them so much, that they seemed eager to
shew their attention to him, and vied with each other in crying
out, with a strong Celtick pronunciation, 'Toctor Shonson, Toctor
Shonson, your health!'
This evening one of our married ladies, a lively pretty little
woman, good-humouredly sat down upon Dr Johnson's knee, and, being
encouraged by some of the company, put her hands round his neck,
and kissed him.

'Do it again,' said he, 'and let us see who will tire first.'
He kept her on his knee some time, while he and she drank
tea. He was now like a BUCK indeed. All the company were much
entertained to find him so easy and pleasant. To me it was highly
comick, to see the grave philosopher--the Rambler--toying with
a Highland beauty! But what could he do? He must have been
surly, and weak too, had he not behaved as he did. He would have
been laughed at, and not more respected, though less loved.

He read to-night, to himself, as he sat in company, a great
deal of my Journal, and said to me, 'The more I read of this, I
think the more highly of you.' The gentlemen sat a long time
at their punch, after he and I had retired to our chambers. The
manner in which they were attended struck me as singular:
the bell being broken, a smart lad lay on a table in the corner
of the room, ready to spring up and bring the kettle, whenever it
was wanted.

They continued drinking, and singing Erse songs, till near five in
the morning, when they all came into my room, where some of them
had beds. Unluckily for me, they found a bottle of punch in a
corner, which they drank; and Corrichatachin went for another,
which they also drank. They made many apologies for disturbing
me.

I told them, that, having been kept awake by their mirth, I had
once thoughts of getting up, and joining them again.
Honest Corrichatachin said, 'To have had you done so, I would
have given a cow.'

Tuesday, 28th September
The weather was worse than yesterday. I felt as if imprisoned.
Dr Johnson said, it was irksome to be detained thus: yet he seemed
to have less uneasiness, or more patience, than I had.

What made our situation worse here was, that we had no rooms
that we could command; for the good people had no notion that
a man could have any occasion but for a mere sleeping-place; so,
during the day, the bed-chambers were common to all the house.
Servants eat in Dr Johnson's; and mine was a kind of general
rendezvous of all under the roof, children and dogs not excepted.
As the gentlemen occupied the parlour, the ladies had no
place to sit in, during the day, but Dr Johnson's room. I had
always some quiet time for writing in it, before he was up;
and, by degrees, I accustomed the ladies to let me sit
in it after breakfast, at my Journal, without minding me.

Dr Johnson was this morning for going to see as many islands as we
could; not recollecting the uncertainty of the season, which might
detain us in one place for many weeks.

He said to me, 'I have more the spirit of adventure than
you.' For my part, I was anxious to get to Mull, from whence
we might almost any day reach the main land.

Dr Johnson mentioned, that the few ancient Irish gentlemen yet
remaining have the highest pride of family; that Mr Sandford, a
friend of his, whose mother was Irish, told him, that O'Hara (who
was true Irish, both by father and mother) and he, and Mr Ponsonby,
son to the Earl of Besborough, the greatest man of the three, but
of an English family, went to see one of those ancient Irish, and
that he distinguished them thus: 'O'Hara, you are welcome!

Mr Sandford, your mother's son, is welcome! Mr Ponsonby, you may
sit down.'
He talked both of threshing and thatching. He said, it was very
difficult to determine how to agree with a thresher. 'If you
pay him by the day's wages, he will thresh no more than he pleases;
though, to be sure, the negligence of a thresher is more easily
detected than that of most labourers, because he must always make
a sound while he works. If you pay him by the piece, by the
quantity of grain which he produces, he will thresh only while
the grain comes freely, and, though he leaves a good deal in the
ear, it is not worth while to thresh the straw over again;
nor can you fix him to do it sufficiently, because it is so
difficult to prove how much less a man threshes than he ought to
do. Here then is a dilemma: but, for my part, I would engage
him by the day; I would rather trust his idleness than his fraud.'
He said, a roof thatched with Lincolnshire reeds would last
seventy years, as he was informed when in that county; and that
he told this in London to a great thatcher, who said, he believed
it might be true.

Such are the pains that Dr Johnson takes to get the best information
on every subject.

He proceeded: 'It is difficult for a farmer in England to find day-
labourers, because the lowest manufacturers can always get more
than a day-labourer. It is of no consequence how high the wages
of manufacturers are; but it would be of very bad consequence
to raise the wages of those who procure the immediate necessaries
of life, for that would raise the price of provisions.
Here then is a problem for politicians. It is not reasonable that
the most useful body of men should be the worst paid; yet it
does not appear how it can be ordered otherwise. It were to be
wished, that a mode for its being otherwise were found out. In
the mean time, it is better to give temporary assistance by
charitable contributions to poor labourers, at times when
provisions are high, than to raise their wages; because, if
wages are once raised, they will never get down again.'

Happily the weather cleared up between one and two o'clock, and we
got ready to depart; but our kind host and hostess would not
let us go without taking a 'snatch', as they called it; which
was in truth a very good dinner. While the punch went round,
Dr Johnson kept a close whispering conference with Mrs
M'Kinnon, which, however, was loud enough to let us hear that
the subject of it was the particulars of Prince Charles's escape.
The company were entertained and pleased to observe it. Upon
that subject, there was something congenial between the soul of
Dr Samuel Johnson, and that of an isle of Sky farmer's wife.
It is curious to see people, how far soever removed from each
other in the general system of their lives, come close together
on a particular point which is common to each. We were merry with
Corrichatachin, on Dr Johnson's whispering with his wife.
She, perceiving this, humorously cried, 'I am in love
with him. What is it to live and not to love?' Upon her saying
something, which I did not hear, or cannot recollect, he seized
her hand eagerly, and kissed it.

As we were going, the Scottish phrase of 'honest man!' which
is an expression of kindness and regard, was again and again applied
by the company to Dr Johnson. I was also treated with much civility;
and I must take some merit from my assiduous attention to him,
and from my contriving that he shall be easy wherever he goes,
that he shall not be asked twice to eat or drink any thing
(which always disgusts him), that he shall be provided with
water at his meals, and many such little things, which, if
not attended to would fret him.

I also may be allowed to claim some merit in leading the
conversation: I do not mean leading, as in an orchestra, by playing
the first fiddle; but leading as one does in examining a
witness--starting topics, and making him pursue them. He appears
to me like a great mill, into which a subject is thrown to be
ground. It requires, indeed, fertile minds to furnish materials
for this mill. I regret whenever I see it unemployed; but sometimes
I feel myself quite barren, and having nothing to throw in.

I know not if this mill be a good figure; though Pope makes
his mind a mill for turning verses.

We set out about four. Young Corrichatachin went with us. We had a
fine evening, and arrived in good time at Ostig, the residence of
Mr Martin M'Pherson, minister of Slate. It is a pretty good house,
built by his father, upon a farm near the church. We were
received here with much kindness by Mr and Mrs M'Pherson, and
his sister, Miss M'Pherson, who pleased Dr Johnson much, by
singing Erse songs, and playing on the guittar. He afterwards sent
her a present of his Rasselas. In his bed-chamber was a press
stored with books, Greek, Latin, French, and English, most of which
had belonged to the father of our host, the learned Dr M'Pherson;
who, though his Dissertations have been mentioned in a former page
as unsatisfactory, was a man of distinguished talents.

In its lesser form anger becomes
irritability, a reaction common to the neurotic and the weak.
When anger is not frank, but manifests itself by a lowered brow
and sidelong look, we speak of sullenness or surliness. The
sullen or surly person, chronically ill-tempered and hostile, is
regarded as unsocial and dangerous, whereas the most lovable
persons are quick to anger and quick to repent.

As a man's anger, so is he. There are some whose anger is always
a reaction against interference with their comfort, their
dignity, their property and their will; it never by any chance is
aroused by the wrongs of others. Usually, however, these folk
camouflage their motive. "It's the principle of the thing I
object to," is its commonest social disguise, which sometimes
successfully hides the real motive from the egoist himself.
Wherever wills and purposes meet in conflict, there anger, or its
offshoot, contempt, is present, and the more egoistic one is, the
more egoistic the sources of anger.

The explosiveness of the anger will depend on the power of
inhibition and the power of the intelligence, as well as on the
strength of the opponent. There are enough whose temper is
uncontrolled in the presence of the weak who manage to be quite
calm in the presence of the strong. I believe there is much less
difference amongst races in this respect than we suspect, and
there is more in tradition and training. There was a time when it
was perfectly proper for a gentleman to lose his temper, but now
that it is held "bad form," most gentlemen manage to control it.

If it is common for men to become angry at ego-injury, there are
in this world, as its leaven of reform, noble spirits who become
angry at the wrongs of others. The world owes its progress to
those whose anger, sustained and intellectualized, becomes the
power behind reform; to those like Abraham Lincoln, who vowed to
destroy slavery because he saw a slave sold down the river; to
the Pinels, outraged by the treatment of the insane; to the
sturdy "Indignant Citizen," who writes to newspapers about what
"is none of his business," but who is too angry to keep still,
and whose anger makes public opinion. Whether anger is useful or
not depends upon its cause and the methods it employs. Righteous
anger, whether against one's own wrongs or the wrongs of others,
is the hall-mark of the brave and noble spirit; mean, egoistic
anger is a great world danger, born of prejudice and egoism. A
violent-tempered child may be such because he is outraged by
wrong; if so, teach him control but do not tell him in modern
wishy-washy fashion that "one must never get angry." Control it,
intellectualize it, do not permit it to destroy effectiveness, as
it is prone to do; but it cannot be eliminated without
endangering personality.

Fear and anger have this in common: whenever the controlling
energy of the mind goes, as in illness, fatigue or early mental
disease, they become more prominent and uncontrolled. This cannot
be overemphasized. When a man (or woman) finds himself
continually getting apprehensive and irritable, then it is the
time to ask, "What's the matter with me," and to get expert
opinion on the subject.

These two emotions are in more need of rationalizing and
intelligent control than the other emotions, for they are more
explosive. Certainly of anger it is truly said that "He who is
master of himself is greater than he who taketh a city." The
angry man is disliked, he arouses unpleasant feelings, he is
unpopular and a nuisance and a danger in the view of his fellows.
The underlying idea underneath courtesy and social regulations is
to avoid anger and humiliation. Controversial subjects are
avoided, and one must not brag or display concern because these
things cause anger and disgust. Politeness and tact are essential
to turn away wrath, to avoid that ego injury that brings anger.

We contrast with the brusque type, careless of whether he arouses
anger, the tactful, which conciliates by avoiding prejudice, and
which hates force and anger as unpleasant. Against the quick to
anger there is the slow type, whose anger may be enduring. We may
contrast egoistic anger with the altruistic and oppose the anger
which is effective with the anger that disturbs reason and
judgment; intellectual anger against brute anger. Rarely do men
show anger to their superiors; extreme provocation and
desperation are necessary. Men flare up easily against equals but
more easily and with mingled contempt against the inferior.
Anger, though behind the fighting spirit, need not bluster or
storm; usually that is a "worked up" condition intended in a
naive way to frighten and intimidate, or through disgust, to win
a point. Anger is not necessarily courage, which replaces it the
higher up one goes in culture.

8. Disgust, also a primary emotion, is one of the basic reactions
of life and civilization. Literally "disagreeable taste," its
facial expression, with mouth open and lower lip drawn down,[1]
is that preliminary to vomiting. We eject or retract when
disgusted; we are not afraid nor are we angry. We say "he--or
she, or it--makes me sick," and this is the stock phrase of
disgust. Inelegant as it is, it exactly expresses the situation.
Disgust easily mingles with fear and anger; it is often dispelled
by curiosity and interest, as in the morbid, as in medical
science, and it of ten displaces less intense curiosity and
interest.

[1] See Darwin's "The Expression of Emotions in Man and Animals,"
--a great book by a great man.


After anything has been accepted as standard in cleanliness, a
deviation in a "lower" direction causes disgust. Those who are
accustomed to clean tablecloths, clean linen are disgusted by
dirty tablecloths, dirty linen. The excreta of the body have been
so effectively tabooed, in the interest perhaps of sanitation,
that their sight or smell is disgusting, and they are used as
symbols of disgust in everyday language. Indeed, the so-called
animal functions have to be decorated and ceremonialized to avoid
disgust. We turn with ridicule and repugnance from him who eats
without "manners" and one of the functions of manners is to avoid
arousing disgust.

Disgust kills desire and passion, and from that fact we may trace
a large part of moral progress. Satiety brings a slight disgust;
thus after a heavy meal there may be contentment but the sight of
food is not at all appealing and often enough rather repelling.
In the sex field, a deep repulsion is often felt when lust alone
has brought the man and woman together or when the situation is
illegal or unhallowed. With satisfaction of desire, the
inhibiting forces come to their own, and the violence of
repentance and disgust may be extreme. Stanley Hall, Havelock
Ellis and other writers lay stress on this; and, indeed, one of
the bases of asceticism is this disgust. Further, when we have no
desires or passion, the sight of others hugging and kissing, or
acting "intimate" in any way, is usually disgusting, an offense
against "good taste" based on the "bad taste" it arouses in the
observer. In memory we are often disgusted at what we did in the
heat of desire, but usually memory itself does not prevent us
from repeating the act; desire itself must slacken. Thus the old
are often intensely disgusted at the conduct of the young, and it
is never wise for a young couple to live with older people. For
in the early days of married life the intensity of the intimate
feelings needs seclusion in order to avoid disgusting others. It
is no accident that Dame Grundy is depicted as an elderly person
with a "sour look"; her prudishness has an origin in disgust at
that which she has outlived. Sometimes the old are wise--not
often enough--and then their humor, love and sympathy keeps them
from disgust.

Love counteracts disgust. The young girl who turns in loathing
from uncleanliness finds it easy and a pleasure to care for her
soiled baby. In fact, tender feeling of any kind overcomes--or
tends to overcome--disgust; and pity, the tenderest of all
feelings and without passion, impels us to march into the very
jaws of disgust. The angry may have no pity,--but they are not
less unkind in commission than the disgusted are unkind in
omission. Thus a too refined breeding leads people away from
effective pity and that sturdiness of conduct which is real
philanthropy. Indeed, too much of refinement increases the number
of disgusting things in the world; he who must have this or that
luxury is not so much pleased with it as disgusted without it.
Raising standards in things material cannot increase the
happiness or contentment of the world, for it merely makes men
impatient and disgusted at lesser standards. We cannot hope to
increase happiness through the material improvements of
civilization.

Self-disgust and shame are not identical but are so kindred that
shame may well be studied here. Shame is lowered self-valuation,
brought on by social or self-disapproval. Usually it is acute
and, like fear, it tends to make the individual hide or fly. It
is based on insight, and there are thus some who are never
ashamed, simply because they do not understand disapproval. Shame
is essentially a feeling of inferiority, and when we say to a
man, "Shame on you," we say, "You have done wrong, humble
yourself, be little!" When we say, "I am ashamed of you," we say,
"I had pride in you; I enlarged myself through you, and now you
make me little." When the community cries shame, it uses a force
that redresses wrong by the need of the one addressed to
vindicate himself. When a man feels shame he feels small,
inferior in his own eyes and in the eyes of others. He feels
impelled, if he is generous, to make amends or to do penance, and
thus he recovers his self-esteem. Unfortunately, shame arises
more frequently and often more violently from a violation of
custom and manner than from a violation of ethics or morals. Thus
we are more ashamed of the so-called "bad break" than of our
failures to be kind. Sometimes our fellow feeling is so strong
that we avoid seeing any one who is humiliated or embarrassed,
because sympathy spreads his feeling to us. Gentle people are
those who dislike to shame any one else, and often one of this
type will endure being wronged rather than reprimand or cause
humiliation and shame. Let something be said to shame any member
of a company and a feeling of shame spreads through the group,
except in the case of those who are very hostile.

Disgust, too, is extremely contagious, especially its
manifestations. One of the most crude of all manifestations, to
spit upon some one, is a symbol taken from disgust, though it has
come to mean contempt, which is a mixture of hatred and disgust.

To raise the tastes and not raise the acquisitions is a sure way
to bring about chronic disgust, which is really an angry
dissatisfaction mixed with disgust. This type of reaction is very
common as a factor in neurasthenia. In fact, my motto is "search
for the disgust" in all cases of neurasthenia and "search for it
in the intimate often secret desires and relationships. Seek for
it in the husband-wife relationship, especially from the
standpoint of the wife." Women, we say, are more refined in their
feelings than men, which is another way of saying they are more
easily disgusted and therefore more easily injured. For disgust
is an injury, when chronic or too easily elicited, and is then a
sign and symbol of weakness.

Thus disgust is a great reenforcer of social taboo and custom, as
well as morality. Just as it fails to keep us from eating the
wrong kind of foods, so it may fail to keep us from the wrong
conduct. Like every emotion it is only in part adapted to our
lives, and in those people where it becomes a prominent emotion
it is a great mischief worker, subordinating life to finickiness
and hindering the growth of generous feeling.

9. We come to two opposite emotions, very readily considered
together. One of the linkings of opposites is in the connection
of Joy and Sorrow. Whether these are primary emotions or
outgrowths of Pleasure and Pain I leave to others. For Shand the
fact that Joy tends to prolong a situation in which it occurs
raises it into an active emotion.

Joy is perhaps the most energizing of the emotions for it tends
to express itself in shouts, smiles and laughter, dancing and
leaping. Sorrow ordinarily is quite the reverse and expresses
itself by immobility, bowed head and hands that shut out from the
view the sights of the world. There is, however, a quiet joy
called relief, which is like sailing into a smooth, safe harbor
after a tempestuous voyage; and there is an agitated grief, with
lamentation, the wringing of hands and self-punishment of a
frantic kind. Joy and triumph are closely associated, sorrow and
defeat likewise. There are some whose rivalry-competitive
feelings are so widespread that they cannot rejoice even at the
triumph of a friend, and a little of that nature is in even the
noblest of us. There are others who find sorrow in defeat of an
enemy, so widespread is their sympathy. This is the generous
victor. For the most of us youth is the most joyous period
because youth finds in its pleasures a novelty and freshness that
tend to disappear with experience. For the same reason the sorrow
of youth, though evanescent, is unreasoning and intense.

Joy and sorrow are reactions and they are noble or the reverse,
according to the nature of the person. Joy may be noble,
sensuous, trivial or mean; many a "jolly" person is such because
he has no real sympathy. At the present time not one of us could
rejoice over anything could we SEE and sympathize deeply with the
misery of Europe and China, to say nothing of that in our own
country. Nay, any wrong to others would blast all our pleasure,
could we really feel it. Fortunately only a few are so cursed
with sympathy. When the capacity for joyous feeling is joined
with fortitude or endurance, then we have the really cheerful,
who spread their feeling everywhere, whom all men love. Where
cheerfulness is due to lack of sympathy and understanding, we
speak of a cheerful idiot; and well does that type merit the
name. There is a modern cult whose followers sing "La, la, la" at
all times and places, who minimize all misfortune, crime,
suffering, who find "good in everything,"--the "Pollyana" tribe.
My objection to them is based on this,--that mankind must see
clearly in order to rid itself of unnecessary suffering. Hiding
one's head (and brains) in a desert of optimism merely
perpetuates evil, even though one sufferer here and there is
deluded into happiness.

Sorrow may enrich the nature or it may embitter and narrow it.
Wisdom may spring from it; indeed, who can be wise who has not
sorrowed? Says Goethe:

 "Wer nie sein Brot in Thranen ass
      Wer nie die kummervollen Nachte
  Auf seinem Bette weinend sass
      Er weiss Euch nicht--himmelischen Machte."


The afflicted in their sorrow may turn from self-seeking to God
and good deeds. But sorrow may come in a trivial nature from
trivial causes; the soul may be plunged into despair because one
has been denied a gift or a pleasure. The demonstrativeness of
grief or sorrow is not at all in proportion to the emotion felt;
it is more often based on the effort to get sympathy and help.
For sorrow is "Help, help" in one form or another, even though
one refuses to be comforted. All our emotions, because they are
socially powerful, become somewhat theatrical; in some completely
theatrical. We are so constituted that emotional display is not
indifferent to us; it pleases, repels, annoys, angers, frightens,
disgusts or awes us according to the kind of emotion displayed,
the displayer and the circumstances.

The psychologists speak of sympathy as this susceptibility to the
emotions of others, but there is an antipathy to their emotions,
as well. If we feel that our emotions will be "well received," we
do not fear to display them, and therein is one of the uses of
the friend. If we feel that they will be poorly received, that
they will annoy or anger or disgust, we strive to repress them.
The expression of emotion, especially of fear and sorrow, has
become synonymous with weakness, and a powerful self-feeling
operates against their display, especially in adults, men and
certain races. It is no accident that the greatest actors are
from the Latin and Hebrew races, for there is a certain
theatricality in fear and sorrow that those schooled to
repression lose. We resent what we call insincerity in emotional
expression because we fear being "fooled," and there are many
whose experiences in being "fooled" chill sympathy with doubt. We
resent insincere sympathy, on the other hand, because we regret
showing weakness before those to whom that weakness is regarded
as such and who perhaps rejoice at it as ridiculous. We like the
emotional expression of children because we can always
sympathize, through our tender feeling with them, and their very
sincerity pleases as well.

Is there a harm in the repression of emotion?[1] Is emotion a
heaped-up tension which, unless it is discharged, causes damage?
Shall man inhibit his anger, fear, joy, sorrow, disgust, at least
in some measure, or shall he express them in gesture, speech and
act? The answer is obvious: he must control them, and in that
term control we mean, not inhibition, not expression in its naive
sense, but that combination of inhibition, expression and
intelligent act we call adjustment. To express fear in the face
of danger or anger at an offense might thwart the whole life's
purpose, might bring disaster and ruin. The emotions are poor
adjustments in their most violent form, their natural form, and
invite disaster by clouding the intelligence and obscuring
permanent purposes. Therefore, they must be controlled. To
establish this control is a primary function of training and
intelligence and does no harm unless carried to excess. True,
there is a relief in emotional expression, a wiping out of sorrow
by tears, an increase of the pleasure of joy in freely laughing,
a discharge of anger in the blow or the hot word, even the
profane word. There is a time and a place for these things, and
to get so "controlled" that one rarely laughs or shows sadness or
anger is to atrophy, to dry up. But the emotional expression
makes it easy to become an habitual weeper or stormer, makes it
easy to become the over-emotional type, whose reaction to life is
futile, undignified and a bodily injury. For emotion is in large
part a display of energy, and the overemotional rarely escape the
depleted neurasthenic state. In fact, hysteria and neurasthenia
are much more common in the races freely expressing emotion than
in the stolid, repressed races. Jew, Italian, French and Irish
figure much more largely than English, Scotch or Norwegian in the
statistics of neurasthenia and hysteria.

[1] Isador N. Coriat's book, "The Repression of Emotions" deals
with the subject from psychoanalytic. point of view.


10. I have said but little on other emotions,--on admiration,
surprise and awe. This group of affective states is of great
importance. Surprise may be either agreeable or disagreeable and
is our reaction to the unexpected. Its expression, facially and
of body, is quite characteristic, with staring eyes and mouth
slightly open, raised eyebrows, hands hanging with fingers
tensely spread apart, so that a thing held therein is apt to
drop. Surprise heightens the feeling of internal tension, and in
all excitement it is an element, in that the novel brings
excitement and surprise, whereas the accustomed gives little
excitement or surprises. In all wit and humor surprise is part of
the technique and constitutes part of the pleasure. Surprise
usually heightens the succeeding feeling, whether of joy, sorrow,
anger, fear, pleasure or pain, or in any form. But sometimes the
effect of surprise is so benumbing that an incapacity to feel, to
realize, is the most marked result and it is only afterward that
the proper emotion or feeling becomes manifest.

The reaction to the unexpected is an important adjustment in
character. There are situations beyond the power of any of us
quickly to adjust ourselves to and we expect the great
catastrophe to surprise and overwhelm. Nevertheless, we judge
people by the way they react to the unexpected; the man who
rallies quickly from the confusion of surprise is, we say,
"cool-headed," keeps his wits about him; and the man who does not
so rally or adjust "loses his head,"--"loses his wits." Part of
this cool-headedness is not only the rallying from surprise but
also the throwing off of fear. A warning has for its purpose,
"Don't be surprised!" and training must teach resources against
the unexpected. "If you expect everything you are armed against
half the trouble of the world." The cautious in character
minimize the number of surprises they may get by preparing. The
impulsive, who rarely prepare, are always in danger from the
unforeseen. Aside from preparation and knowledge, there is in the
condition of the organism a big factor in the reaction to the
unexpected. Fatigue, neurasthenia, hysteria and certain depressed
conditions render a man more liable to react excessively and
badly to surprise. The tired soldier has lessened resources in
wit and courage when surprised, for fatigue heightens the
confusion and numbness of surprise and decreases the scope of
intelligent conduct. Choice is made difficult, and the
neurasthenic doubt is transformed to impotence by surprise.

Face to face with what is recognized as superior to ourselves in
a quality we hold to be good, we fall into that emotional state,
a mingling of surprise and pleasure, called admiration. In its
original usage, admiration meant wonder, and there is in all
admiration something of that feeling which is born in the
presence of the superior. The more profound the admiration, the
greater is the proportion of wonder in the feeling.

We find it difficult to admire where the competitive feeling is
strongly aroused, though there are some who can do so. It is the
essence of good sportsmanship, the ideal aimed at, to admire the
rival for his good qualities, though sticking fast to one's
confidence in oneself. The English and American athletes, perhaps
also the athletes of other countries, make this part of their
code of conduct and so are impelled to act in a way not entirely
sincere. Wherever jealousy or envy are strongly aroused,
admiration is impossible, and so it comes about that men find it
easy to praise men in other noncompetitive fields or for
qualities in which they are not competing. Thus an author may
strongly admire an athlete or a novelist may praise the
historian; a beautiful woman admires another for her learning,
though with some reservation in her praise, and a successful
business man admires the self-sacrificing scientist, albeit there
is a little complacency in his approval.

He is truly generous-hearted who can admire his competitor. I do
not mean lip-admiration, through the fear of being held jealous.
Many a man joins in the praise of one who has outstripped him,
with envy gnawing at his heart, and waits for the first note of
criticism to get out the hammer. "He is very fine--but" is the
formula, and either through innuendo, insinuation or direct
attack, the "subordinate" statement becomes the most sincere and
significant. But there are those who can admire their conqueror,
not only through the masochism that lurks in all of us, but
because they have lifted their ideal of achievement and character
higher than their own possibilities and seek in others the
perfection they cannot hope to have in themselves. In other
words, where competition is hopeless, in the presence of the
greatly superior, a feeling of humility which is really
admiration to the point of worship comes over us, and we can
glory in the quality we love. To admire is to recede the
ego-feeling, is to feel oneself in an ecstasy that becomes
mystical, and in that sense the contradiction arises that we feel
ourselves larger in a unification with the admired one.

Each age, each country, each group and each family set up the
objects and qualities for admiration, in a word, the ideals. Out
of these the individual selects his specialties in admiration,
according to his nature and training. All the world admires
vigor, strength, courage and endurance,--and these in their
physical aspects. The hero of all times has had these qualities:
he is energetic, capable of feats beyond the power of others, is
fearless and bears his ills with equanimity. Beauty, especially
in the woman, but also in man, has received an over-great share
of homage, but here "tastes differ." We have no difficulty in
agreement on what constitutes strength, and we have objective
tests for its measurement; but who can agree on beauty? What one
race prizes as its fairest is scorned by another race. We laugh
at the ideal of beauty of the Hottentot, and the physical
peculiarity they praise most either disgusts or amuses us. But
what is there about a white skin more lovely than a black one,
and why thrill over blue eyes and neglect the brown ones? What is
the rationale for the admiration of slimness as against
stoutness? Indeed, there are races who would turn with scorn from
our slender debutante[1] and worship their more buxom
heavy-busted and wide-hipped beauties. The only "rational" beauty
in face and figure is that which stands as the outer mask of
health, vigor, intelligence and normal procreative function. The
standards set up in each age and place usually arise from local
pride, from the familiar type. The Mongolian who finds beauty in
his slanting-eyed, wide-cheek boned, yellow mate has as valid a
sanction as the Anglo-Saxon who worships at the shrine of his
wide-eyed, straight-nosed blonde.

[1] The peasant type, greatly admired by the agricultural folk of
Central Europe, is stout and ruddy. This is a better ideal of
beauty than the lily-white, slender and dainty maid of the
cultured, who very often can neither work nor bear and nurse
children.


When we leave the physical qualities and pass to the mental we
again find a lack of agreement as to the admirable. All agree
that intelligence is to be admired, but how shall that
intelligence be manifested? In practice, the major part of the
world admires the intelligence that is financially and socially
successful, and the rich and powerful have the greatest share of
the world's praise. Power, strength, and superiority command
admiration, even from the unwilling, and the philosopher who
stands aloof from the world and is without real strength finds
himself admiring a crude, bustling fellow ordering men about.
True, we admire such acknowledged great intelligences as Plato,
Galileo, Newton, Pascal, Darwin, etc., but in reality only a
fragment of the men and women of any country know anything at all
about these men, and the admiration of most is an acceptance of
the authority of others as to what it is proper to admire.
Genuine admiration is in proportion to the intelligence and
idealism of the admirer. And there are in this country a thousand
intense admirers of Babe Ruth and his mighty baseball club to one
who pours out his soul before the image of Pasteur. You may know
a man (or woman) not by his lip-homage, but by what he genuinely
admires, by that which evokes his real enthusiasm and praise.
Judge by that and then note that the most constant admiration of
the women of our country goes out to actresses, actors,
professional beauties, with popular authors and lecturers a bad
second, and that of the men is evoked by prize fighters, ball
players and the rich. No wonder the problems of the world find no
solution, for it is only by fits and starts that men and women
admire real intelligence and real ability. The orator has more
admirers than the thinker, and this is the curse of politics; the
executive has more admirers than the research worker, and this is
the bane of industry; the entertainer is more admired than the
educator, and that is why Charlie Chaplin makes a million a year
and President Eliot received only a few thousand. The race and
the nation has its generous enthusiasms and its bursts of
admiration for the noble, but its real admiration it gives to
those whom it best understands. Fortunately the leaders of the
race have more of generosity and fine admiration than have the
mass they lead. Left to itself, the mass of the race limits its
hero-worship to the lesser, unworthy race of heroes.

The school histories, which should emphasize the admirable as
well as point out the reverse, have played a poor role in
education. The hero they depict is the warrior, and they fire the
hearts of the child with admiration and desire for emulation.
They say almost nothing of the great inventors, scientists and
philanthropists. The teaching of history should, above all, set
up heroes for the child to study, admire and emulate. "When the
half-gods go the gods arrive." The stage of history as taught is
cluttered with the tin-plate shedders of blood to the exclusion
of the greater men.[1]

[1] Plutarch's Lives are an example of the praise and place given
to the soldier and orator; and many a child, reading them, has
burned to be an Alexander or a Caesar. Wells' History, with all
its defects, pushes the "conquerors" to their real place as
enemies of the race.


When the object that confronts us is so superior, so vast, that
we sink into insignificance, then admiration takes on a tinge of
fear in the state or feeling of awe. All men feel awe in the
presence of strength and mystery, so that the concept of God is
that most wrapped up with this emotion, and the ceremonies with
which kings and institutions have been surrounded strike awe by
their magnificence and mystery into the hearts of the governed.
We contemplate natural objects, such as mountains, mighty rivers
and the oceans, with awe because we feel so little and puny in
comparison, and we do not "enjoy" contemplating them because we
hate to feel little. Or else we grow familiar with them, and the
awe disappears. The popular and the familiar are never awe-full,
and even death loses in dignity when one has dissected a few
bodies. So objects viewed by night or in gloom inspire awe,
though seen by day they are stripped of mystery and interest. To
the adolescent boy, woman is a creature to be regarded with
awe,--beautiful, strangely powerful and mysterious. To the
grown-up man, enriched and disillusioned by a few experiences,
woman, though still loved, is no longer worshiped.

Though the reverent spirit is admirable and poetic, it is not by
itself socially valuable. It has been played upon by every false
prophet, every enslaving institution. It prevents free inquiry;
it says to science, "Do not inquire here. They who believe do not
investigate. This is too holy a place for you." We who believe in
science deny that anything can be so holy that it can be
cheapened by light, and we believe that face to face with the
essential mysteries of life itself even the most assiduous and
matter-of-fact must feel awe. Man, the little, has probed into
the secrets of the universe of which he is a part. What he has
learned, what he can learn, make him bow his head with a
reverence no worshiper of dogmatic mysteries can ever feel.


CHAPTER X. COURAGE, RESIGNATION, SUBLIMATION, PATIENCE, THE WISH,
AND ANHEDONIA

In the preceding chapter we spoke of the feeling of energy and
certain of the basic emotions--such as fear, anger, joy, sorrow,
disgust, surprise and admiration. It is important to know that
rarely does a man react to any life situation in which the
feeling of energy is not an emotional constituent and governs in
a general way that reaction. Moreover, fear, anger, joy and the
other feelings described mingle with this energy feeling and so
are built great systems of the affective life.

1. Courage is one of these systems. It is not merely the absence
of fear that constitutes courage, though we interchange
"fearless" with "courageous." Frequently it is the conquest of
fear by the man himself that leads him to the highest courage.
There is a type of courage based on the lack of imagination, the
inability to see ahead the disaster that lurks around every
corner. There is another type of courage based on the philosophy
that to lose control of oneself is the greatest disaster. There
are the nobly proud, whose conception of "ought," of "noblesse
oblige," makes them the real aristocrats of the race.

The fierce, the predisposed to anger are usually courageous.
Unrestrained anger tends to break down imagination and foresight;
caution disappears and the smallest will attack the largest. In
racial propaganda, one way to arouse courage is to arouse anger.
The enemy is represented as all that is despicable and mean and
as threatening the women and children, religion, or the flag. It
is not sufficient to arouse hate, for hate may fear. While
individuals of a fierce type may be cowards, and the gentle often
enough are heroes, the history of the race shows that physical
courage resides more with the fierce races than with the gentle.

Those who feel themselves superior in strength and energy are
much more apt to be courageous than those who feel themselves
inferior. In fact, the latter have to force themselves to
courage, whereas the former's courage is spontaneous. Men do not
fear to be alone in a house as women do, largely because men feel
themselves equal to coping with intruders, who are sure to be
men, while women do not. One of the early signs of chronic
sickness is a feeling of fear, a loss of courage, based on a
feeling of inferiority to emergencies. The Spartans made it part
of that development of courage for which their name stands, to
develop the physique of both their men and women. Their example,
in rational measure, should be followed by all education, for
courage is essential to nobility of character. I emphasize that
such training should be extended to both male and female, for we
cannot expect to have a timorous mother efficiently educate her
boy to be brave, to say nothing of the fact that her own
happiness and efficiency rest on courage.

Tradition is a mighty factor in the production of courage. To
feel that something is expected of one because one's ancestors
lived up to a high standard becomes a guiding feeling in life.
Not to be inferior, not to disappoint expectation, to maintain
the tradition that a "So-and-So" never shows the white feather,
makes, heroes of the soldiers of famous regiments, of firemen and
policemen, of priests, of the scions of distinguished families,
aye, even of races. To every man in the grip of a glorious
tradition it seems as if those back of him are not really dead,
as if they stand with him, and speak with his voice and act in
his deeds. The doctor who knows of the martyrs of his profession
and knows that in the code of his calling there are no diseases
he must hesitate to face, goes with equanimity where others who
are braver in facing death of other kinds do not dare to enter.

Courage is competitive, courage is cooperative, as is every other
phase of the mental life of men. We gather courage as we watch a
fellow worker face his danger with a brave spirit, for we will
not be outdone. Amour propre will not permit us to cringe or give
in, though we are weary to death of a struggle. But also we
thrill with a common feeling at the sight of the hero holding his
own, we are enthused by it, we wish to be with him; and his
shining example moves us to a fellowship in courage. We find
courage in the belief that others are "with us," whether that
courage faces physical or moral danger. To be "with" a man is to
more than double his resources of strength, intelligence and
courage; it is more than an addition, for it multiplies all his
virtues and eliminates his defects. The sum total is the Hero. 
Good MR BROWN, Keeper of the Advocates Library. 'We had better
say nothing about it.' BOSWELL. 'You would have been glad,
however, to have had us last war, sir, to fight your battles!'
JOHNSON. 'We should have had you for the same price, though there
had been no Union, as we might have had Swiss, or other troops.

No, no, I shall agree to a separation. You have only to GO HOME.'
Just as he had said this, I to divert the subject, shewed him the
signed assurances of the three successive Kings of the Hanover
family, to maintain the Presbyterian establishment in Scotland.
'We'll give you that,' said he, 'into the bargain.'
We next went to the great church of St Giles, which has lost
its original magnificence in the inside, by being divided into
four places of Presbyterian worship.

'Come,' said Dr Johnson jocularly to Principal Robertson, [Footnote:
I have hitherto called him Dr William Robertson, to distinguish
him from Dr James Robertson, who is soon to make his appearance.
But 'Principal', from his being the head of our college, is his
usual designation, and is shorter; so I shall use it hereafter.]
'let me see what was once a church!' We entered that
division which was formerly called the New Church, and of late the
High Church, so well known by the eloquence of Dr Hugh Blair.

It is now very elegantly fitted up; but it was then shamefully
dirty. Dr Johnson said nothing at the time; but when we came
to the great door of the Royal Infirmary, where, upon a board, was
this inscription, CLEAN YOUR FEET! he turned about slyly, and said,
'There is no occasion for putting this at the doors of your
churches!'
We then conducted him down the Post-house stairs,
Parliament Close, and made him look up from the Cow-gate to the
highest building in Edinburgh (from which he had just
descended), being thirteen floors or stories from the ground
upon the back elevation; the front wall being built upon the edge
of the hill, and the back wall rising from the bottom of the hill
several stories before it comes to a level with the front wall.

We proceeded to the College, with the Principal at our head. Dr
Adam Fergusson, whose Essay on the History of Civil Society gives
him a respectable place in the ranks of literature, was with
us.
As the College buildings are indeed very mean, the Principal
said to Dr Johnson, that he must give them the same epithet
that a Jesuit did when shewing a poor college abroad: Hae miseriae
nostrae. Dr Johnson was, however, much pleased with the
library, and with the conversation of Dr James Robertson, Professor
of Oriental Languages, the Librarian.

We talked of Kennicot's edition of the Hebrew Bible, and hoped
it would be quite faithful. JOHNSON. 'Sir, I know not any
crime so great that a man could contrive to commit, as poisoning
the sources of eternal truth.'
I pointed out to him where there formerly stood an old wall
enclosing part of the college, which I remember bulged out in a
threatening manner, and of which there was a common tradition
similar to that concerning Bacon's study at Oxford, that it
would fall upon some very learned man. It had some time before
this been taken down, that the street might be widened, and a
more convenient wall built.

Dr Johnson, glad of an opportunity to have a pleasant
hit at Scottish learning, said, 'they have been afraid it never
would fall'.

We shewed him the Royal Infirmary, for which, and for every other
exertion of generous publick spirit in his power, that noble-minded
citizen of Edinburgh, George Drummond, will be ever held in
honourable remembrance. And we were too proud not to carry him
to the Abbey of Holyrood House, that beautiful piece of architecture,
but, alas! that deserted mansion of royalty, which Hamilton of
Bangour, in one of his elegant poems, calls
A virtuous palace, where no monarch dwells.

I was much entertained while Principal Robertson fluently
harangued to Dr Johnson, upon the spot, concerning scenes
of his celebrated History of Scotland.

We surveyed that part of the palace appropriated to the
Duke of Hamilton, as Keeper, in which our beautiful Queen Mary
lived, and in which David Rizzio was murdered; and also the State
Rooms.

Dr Johnson was a great reciter of all sorts of things serious
or comical.
I over-heard him repeating here, in a kind of muttering tone, a
line of the old ballad, 'Johnny Armstrong's Last Good-Night':

'And ran him through the fair body!' [Footnote: The stanza from
which he took this line is:
But then rose up all Edinburgh, They rose up by thousands three;
A cowardly Scot came John behind, And ran him through the fair
body!]
We returned to my house, where there met him, at dinner, the
Duchess of Douglas, Sir Adolphus Oughton, Lord Chief Baron, Sir
William Forbes, Principal Robertson, Mr Cullen, advocate.
Before dinner, he told us of a curious conversation between the
famous George Faulkner and him. George said that England had
drained Ireland of fifty thousand pounds in specie,
annually, for fifty years. 'How so, sir!' said Dr Johnson, 'you
must have a very great trade?' 'No trade.' 'Very rich mines?' 'No
mines.'

'From whence, then, does all this money come?' 'Come! why out of
the blood and bowels of the poor people of Ireland!'
He seemed to me to have an unaccountable prejudice against Swift;
for I once took a liberty to ask him, if Swift had personally
offended him, and he told me, he had not. He said to-day, 'Swift
is clear, but he is shallow. In coarse humour, he is inferior to
Arbuthnot; in delicate humour, he is inferior to Addison: so
he is inferior to his contemporaries; without putting him against
the whole world. I doubt if the Tale of a Tub was his: it
has so much more thinking, more knowledge, more power, more
colour, than any of the works which are indisputably
his. If it was his, I shall only say, he was impar sibi.'
We gave him as good a dinner as we could. Our Scotch muir-fowl,
or growse, were then abundant, and quite in season; and, so
far as wisdom and wit can be aided by administering agreeable
sensations to the palate, my wife took care that our great guest
should not be deficient.

Sir Adolphus Oughton, then our Deputy Commander in Chief, who was
not only an excellent officer, but one of the most universal
scholars I ever knew, had learned the Erse language, and expressed
his belief in the authenticity of Ossian's poetry. Dr
Johnson took the opposite side of that perplexed question; and I
was afraid the dispute would have run high between them. But
Sir Adolphus, who had a very sweet temper, changed the discourse,
grew playful, laughed at Lord Monboddo's notion of men having
tails, and called him a Judge, a posteriori, which amused Dr
Johnson; and thus hostilities were prevented.

At supper we had Dr Cullen, his son the advocate, Dr Adam Fergusson,
and Mr Crosbie, advocate. Witchcraft was introduced. Mr Crosbie
said, he thought it the greatest blasphemy to suppose evil spirits
counteracting the Deity, and raising storms, for instance, to
destroy his creatures. JOHNSON. 'Why, sir, if moral evil be
consistent with the government of the Deity, why may not physical
evil be also consistent with it? It is not more strange that
there should be evil spirits, than evil embodied spirits.

And as to storms, we know there are such things; and it is
no worse that evil spirits raise them, than that they rise.'
CROSBIE. 'But it is not credible, that witches should have effected
what they are said in stories to have done.' JOHNSON.
'Sir, I am not defending their credibility. I am only saying,
that your arguments are not good, and will not overturn the belief
of witchcraft.' (Dr Fergusson said to me, aside, 'He is
right.') 'And then, sir, you have all mankind, rude and
civilized, agreeing in the belief of the agency of
preternatural powers. You must take evidence:
you must consider, that wise and great men have condemned witches
to die.' CROSBIE. 'But an Act of Parliament put an end to
witchcraft.' JOHNSON. 'No, sir; witchcraft had ceased; and therefore
an Act of Parliament was passed to prevent persecution for what
was not witchcraft. Why it ceased, we cannot tell, as we cannot
tell the reason of many other things.' Dr Cullen, to keep up the
gratification of mysterious disquisition, with the grave
address for which he is remarkable in his companionable as in his
professional hours, talked, in a very entertaining manner, of people
walking and conversing in their sleep.

I am very sorry I have no note of this. We talked of the Ouran-Outang,
and of Lord Monboddo's thinking that he might be taught
to speak. Dr Johnson treated this with ridicule. Mr Crosbie said,
that Lord Monboddo believed the existence of every thing possible;
in short, that all which is in posse might be found in esse.
JOHNSON.
'But, sir, it is as possible that the Ouran-Outang does
not speak, as that he speaks. However, I shall not contest the
point. I should have thought it not possible to find a Monboddo;
yet HE exists.' I again mentioned the stage. JOHNSON. 'The
appearance of a player, with whom I have drunk tea, counteracts
the imagination that he is the character he represents.

Nay, you know, nobody imagines that he is the character he
represents. They say, "See Garrick! how he looks to-night! See
how he'll clutch the dagger!" That is the buz of the theatre.'

Tuesday, 17th August
Sir William Forbes came to breakfast, and brought with him Dr
Blacklock, whom he introduced to Dr Johnson, who received him with
a most humane complacency. 'Dear Blacklock, I am glad to see
you!' Blacklock seemed to be much surprised, when Dr Johnson
said, 'it was easier to him to write poetry than to compose his
Dictionary. His mind was less on the stretch in doing the one than
the other. Besides; composing a dictionary requires books and a
desk: you can make a poem walking in the fields, or lying in bed.'
Dr Blacklock spoke of scepticism in morals and religion, with
apparant uneasiness, as if he wished for more certainty.

Dr Johnson, who had thought it all over, and whose vigorous
understanding was fortified by much experience, thus
encouraged the blind bard to apply to higher speculations what we
willingly submit to in common life: in short, he gave him more
familiarly the able and fair reasoning of Butler's Analogy: 'Why,
sir, the greatest concern we have in this world, the choice of our
profession, must be determined without demonstrative reasoning.

Human life is not yet so well known, as that we can have it.
And take the case of a man who is ill. I call two physicians:
they differ in opinion. I am not to lie down, and die between
them: I must do something.' The conversation then turned
on atheism; on that horrible book, Systeme de la Nature; and
on the supposition of an eternal necessity, without
design, without a governing mind. JOHNSON. 'If it were so, why
has it ceased? Why don't we see men thus produced around
us now? Why, at least, does it not keep pace, in some measure,
with the progress of time? If it stops because there is now no
need of it, then it is plain there is, and ever has been, an
all-powerful intelligence.

But stay!' said he, with one of his satyrick laughs.
'Hal ha! ha! I shall suppose Scotchmen made necessarily, and
Englishmen by choice.'
At dinner this day, we had Sir Alexander Dick, whose amiable
character, and ingenious and cultivated mind, are so generally
known (he was then on the verge of seventy, and is now (1785)
eighty-one, with his faculties entire, his heart warm, and his
temper gay); Sir David Dalrymple; Lord Hailes; Mr Maclaurin,
advocate; Dr Gregory, who now worthily fills his father's medical
chair; and my uncle, Dr Boswell.

This was one of Dr Johnson's best days. He was quite in his
element. All was literature and taste, without any interruption.
Lord Hailes, who is one of the best philologists in Great
Britain, who has written papers in the World, and a variety of
other works in prose and in verse, both Latin and English, pleased
him highly. He told him, he had discovered the Life of Cheynel,
in the Student, to be his.
JOHNSON. 'No one else knows it.' Dr Johnson had, before this,
dictated to me a law-paper, upon a question purely in
the law of Scotland, concerning 'vicious intromission', that
is to say, intermeddling with the effects of a deceased person,
without a regular title; which formerly was understood to subject
the intermeddler to payment of all the defunct's debts.

The principle has of late been relaxed. Dr Johnson's argument
was, for a renewal of its strictness. The paper was printed,
with additions by me, and given into the Court of Session.
Lord Hailes knew Dr Johnson's part not to be mine, and pointed
out exactly where it began, and where it ended. Dr Johnson
said, 'It is much, now, that his lordship can distinguish so.'

In Dr Johnson's Vanity of Human Wishes, there is the following
passage:

The teeming mother, anxious for her race, Begs, for each birth,
the fortune of a face:
Yet VANE could tell, what ills from beauty spring; And SEDLEY curs'd
the charms which pleas'd a king.

Lord Hailes told him, he was mistaken in the instances he had
given of unfortunate fair ones; for neither Vane nor Sedley
had a title to that description.

His Lordship has since been so obliging as to send me a note of
this, for the communication of which I am sure my readers
will thank me.

The lines in the tenth Satire of Juvenal, according to my
alteration, should have run thus:

Yet SHORE [Footnote: Mistress of Edward IV.] could tell--; And
VALIERE [Footnote: Mistress of Louis XIV.] curs'd--.

The first was a penitent by compulsion, the second by sentiment;
though the truth is, Mademoiselle de la Valiere threw herself
(but still from sentiment) in the King's way.

'Our friend chose Vane, who was far from being well-looked; and
Sedley, who was so ugly, that Charles II said, his brother had her
by way of penance.'

Mr Maclaurin's learning and talents enabled him to do his
part very well in Dr Johnson's company. He produced two epitaphs
upon his father, the celebrated mathematician. One was in
English, of which Dr Johnson did not change one word. In the
other, which was in Latin, he made several alterations. In place
of the very words of Virgil, Ubi luctus et pavor et plurima mortis
imago, he wrote Ubi luctus regnant et pavor. He introduced the
word prorsus into the line Mortalibus prorsus non absit solatium
and after Hujus enim scripta evolve, he added, Mentemque tantarum
rerum capacem corpori caduco superstitem crede; which is quite
applicable to Dr Johnson himself. [Footnote: Mr Maclaurin's
epitaph, as engraved on a marble tombstone, in the Gray-Friars
church-yard, Edinburgh:

Infra situs est COLIN MACLAURIN Mathes. olim in Acad. Edin.
Prof.
Electus ipso Newtono suadente.
H. L. P. F.
Non ut nomini paterno consulat, Nam tali auxilio nil eget; Sed
ut in hoc infelici campo, Ubi luctus regnant et pavor,
Mortalibus prorsus non absit solatium:
Hujus enim scripta evolve, Mentemque tantarum rerum capacem
Corpori caduco superstitem crede.]
Mr Murray, advocate, who married a niece of Lord Mansfield's and
is now one of the Judges of Scotland, by the title of Lord Henderland,
sat with us a part of the evening; but did not venture to say any
thing, that I remember, though he is certainly possessed of talents
which would have enabled him to have shewn himself to advantage,
if too great anxiety had not prevented him.
At supper we had Dr Alexander Webster, who, though not learned, had
such a knowledge of mankind, such a fund of information and
entertainment, so clear a head and such accommodating manners, that
Dr Johnson found him a very agreeable companion.
When Dr Johnson and I were left by ourselves, I read to him my notes
of the opinions of our Judges upon the questions of Literary
Property.This is not to deny that these energy manifestations can be
aroused from the outside. That is the purpose of teaching and
preaching; the purpose of writer and orator. There is a social
spread of enthusiasm that is the most marked feature of crowds
and assemblies, and this eagerness makes a unit of thousands of
diverse personalities. Further, the problem of awakening
enthusiasm and desire is the therapeutic problem of the physician
and especially in the condition described as anhedonia.

In anhedonia, as first described by Ribot, mentioned by James,
and which has recently been worked up by myself as a group of
symptoms in mental and nervous disease, as well as in life in
general, there is a characteristic lack of enthusiasm in
anticipation and realization, a lack of appetite and desire, a
lack of satisfaction. I observed to-day, that the common way of
carrying home their grain here is in loads on horse-back.
They have also a few sleds, or cars, as we call them in Ayrshire,
clumsily made, and rarely used.

We got to Ulinish about six o'clock, and found a very good
farm-house, of two stories. Mr M'Leod of Ulinish, the
sheriff-substitute of the island, was a plain honest gentleman, a
good deal like an English justice of peace; not much given to talk,
but sufficiently sagacious, and somewhat droll.

His daughter, though she was never out of Sky, was a very well-bred
woman. Our reverend friend, Mr Donald M'Queen, kept his
appointment, and met us here.

Talking of Phipps's voyage to the North Pole, Dr Johnson observed,
that it 'was conjectured that our former navigators have kept
too near land, and so have found the sea frozen far north,
because the land hinders the free motion of the tide; but,
in the wide ocean, where the waves tumble at their full convenience,
it is imagined that the frost does not take effect'.

Wednesday, 22d September
In the morning I walked out, and saw a ship, the Margaret of
Clyde, pass by with a number of emigrants on board. It was a
melancholy sight. After breakfast, we went to see what was called
a subterraneous house, about a mile off. It was upon the side
of a rising-ground. It was discovered by a fox's having taken
up his abode in it, and in chasing him, they dug into it. It was
very narrow and low, and seemed about forty feet in length.

Near it, we found the foundations of several small huts, built of
stone. Mr M'Queen, who is always for making every thing
as ancient as possible, boasted that it was the dwelling of
some of the first inhabitants of the island, and observed,
what a curiosity it was to find here a specimen of the houses of
the Aborigines, which he believed could be found no where else;
and it was plain that they lived without fire. Dr Johnson remarked,
that they who made this were not in the rudest state; for
that it was more difficult to make it than to build a house;
therefore certainly those who made it were in possession of
houses, and had this only as a hiding-place.
It appeared to me, that the vestiges of houses, just by it,
confirmed Dr Johnson's opinion.

From an old tower, near this place, is an extensive view of Loch
Braccadil, and, at a distance, of the isles of Barra and South
Uist; and on the landside, the Cuillin, a prodigious range
of mountains, capped with rocky pinnacles in a strange variety of
shapes.

They resemble the mountains near Corte in Corsica, of which
there is a very good print. They make part of a great range for
deer, which, though entirely devoid of trees, is in these countries
called a forest.

In the afternoon, Ulinish carried us in his boat to an island
possessed by him, where we saw an immense cave, much more deserving
the title of antrum immane than that of the Sybil described by
Virgil, which I likewise have visited.

It is one hundred and eighty feet long, about thirty feet broad,
and at least thirty feet high. This cave, we were told, had
a remarkable echo; but we found none. They said it was owing to
the great rains having made it damp. Such are the excuses
by which the exaggeration of Highland narratives is palliated.
There is a plentiful garden at Ulinish (a great rarity in Sky),
and several trees; and near the house is a hill, which has an
Erse name, signifying 'the hill of strife', where, Mr M'Queen
informed us, justice was of old administered. It is like
the mons placiti of Scone, or those hills which are called laws,
such as Kelly law, North Berwick law, and several others.

It is singular that this spot should happen now to be the sheriff's
residence.

We had a very cheerful evening, and Dr Johnson talked a good
deal on the subject of literature. Speaking of the noble
family of Boyle, he said, that all the Lord Orrerys, till the
present, had been writers.
The first wrote several plays; the second was Bentley's antagonist;
the third wrote the Life of Swift, and several other things;
his son Hamilton wrote some papers in the Adventurer and World.
He told us, he was well acquainted with Swift's Lord Orrery.
He said, he was a feeble-minded man; that, on the publication of
Dr Delany's Remarks on his book, he was so much alarmed that he was
afraid to read them.

Dr Johnson comforted him, by telling him they were both in the
right; that Delany had seen most of the good side of Swift, Lord
Orrery most of the bad. M'Leod asked, if it was not wrong in
Orrery to expose the defects of a man with whom he lived in
intimacy. JOHNSON. 'Why no, sir, after the man is dead; for then
it is done historically.' He added, 'If Lord Orrery had been rich,
he would have been a very liberal patron.

His conversation was like his writings, neat and elegant, but
without strength. He grasped at more than his abilities could
reach; tried to pass for a better talker, a better writer,
and a better thinker than he was. There was a quarrel between him
and his father, in which his father was to blame; because it
arose from the son's not allowing his wife to keep company
with his father's mistress. The old lord shewed his resentment
in his will--leaving his library from his son, and assigning, as
his reason, that he could not make use of it.'
I mentioned the affectation of Orrery, in ending all his letters
on the Life of Swift in studied varieties of phrase, and
never in the common mode of 'I am', &c. an observation which I
remember to have been made several years ago by old Mr Sheridan.

This species of affectation in writing, as a foreign lady of
distinguished talents once remarked to me, is almost peculiar to
the English.

I took up a volume of Dryden, containing the Conquest of Granada,
and several other plays, of which all the dedications had such
studied conclusions. Dr Johnson said, such conclusions were more
elegant, and, in addressing persons of high rank (as when
Dryden dedicated to the Duke of York), they were likewise
more respectful. I agreed that THERE it was much better: it was
making his escape from the royal presence with a genteel
sudden timidity, in place of having the resolution to stand still,
and make a formal bow.

Lord Orrery's unkind treatment of his son in his will, led
us to talk of the dispositions a man should have when dying.
I said, I did not see why a man should act differently
with respect to those of whom he thought ill when in health, merely
because he was dying.

JOHNSON. 'I should not scruple to speak against a party, when
dying; but should not do it against an individual. It is told of
Sixtus Quintus, that on his death-bed, in the intervals of his
last pangs, he signed death-warrants.' Mr M'Queen said,
he should not do so; he would have more tenderness of heart.
JOHNSON. 'I believe I should not either; but Mr M'Queen and I
are cowards. It would not be from tenderness of heart; for the
heart is as tender when a man is in health as when he is
sick, though his resolution may be stronger. Sixtus
Quintus was a sovereign as well as a priest; and, if the
criminals deserved death, he was doing his duty to the
last. You would not think a judge died ill, who should be carried
off by an apoplectick fit while pronouncing sentence of death.
Consider a class of men whose business it is to distribute
death: soldiers, who die scattering bullets. Nobody thinks they
die ill on that account.'
Talking of biography, he said, he did not think that the life of
any literary man in England had been well written.

Beside the common incidents of life, it should tell us his studies,
his mode of living, the means by which he attained to excellence,
and his opinion of his own works. He told us, he had sent
Derrick to Dryden's relations, to gather materials for his
Life; and he believed Derrick had got all that he himself should
have got; but it was nothing. He added, he had a kindness for
Derrick, and was sorry he was dead.

His notion as to the poems published by Mr M'Pherson, as the
works of Ossian, was not shaken here. Mr M'Queen always evaded
the point of authenticity, saying only that Mr M'Pherson's pieces
fell far short of those he knew in Erse, which were said to be
Ossian's. JOHNSON. 'I hope they do.

I am not disputing that you may have poetry of great merit; but
that M'Pherson's is not a translation from ancient poetry.
You do not believe it. I say before you, you do not believe it,
though you are very willing that the world should believe
it.' Mr M'Queen made no answer to this. Dr Johnson proceeded, 'I
look upon M'Pherson's Fingal to be as gross an imposition as
ever the world was troubled with. Had it been really an
ancient work, a true specimen how men thought at that time, it
would have been a curiosity of the first rate. As a modern
production, it is nothing.' He said, he could never get the
meaning of an Erse song explained to him. They told him, the
chorus was generally unmeaning. 'I take it,' said he, 'Erse
songs are like a song which I remember: it was composed in Queen
Elizabeth's time, on the Earl of Essex; and the burthen was
"Radaratoo, radarate, radara tadara tandore."'
'But surely,' said Mr M'Queen, 'there were words to it, which
had meaning.' JOHNSON. 'Why, yes, sir, I recollect a stanza, and
you shall have it:

"O! then bespoke the prentices all, Living in London, both proper
and tall, For Essex's sake they would fight all.
Radaratoo, radarate, radara, tadara, tandore."'
[Footnote: This droll quotation, I have since found, was from a
song in honour of the Earl of Essex, called 'Queen Elizabeth's
Champion', which is preserved in a collection of Old Ballads, in
three volumes, published in London in different years, between 1720
and 1730.

The full verse is as follows:

Oh! then bespoke the prentices all, Living in London, both
proper and tall, In a kind letter sent straight to the Queen, For
Essex's sake they would fight all.

Raderer too, tandaro te, Raderer, tenderer, tan do re.]
When Mr M'Queen began again to expatiate on the beauty of Ossian's
poetry, Dr Johnson entered into no further controversy, but,
with a pleasant smile, only cried, 'Ay, ay; Radaratoo, radarate.'

Thursday, 23d September
I took Fingal down to the parlour in the morning, and tried a test
proposed by Mr Roderick M'Leod, son to Ulinish. Mr M'Queen had
said he had some of the poem in the original. I desired him to
mention any passage in the printed book, of which he could repeat
the original. He pointed out one in page 50 of the quarto
edition, and read the Erse, while Mr Roderick M'Leod and I looked
on the English; and Mr M'Leod said, that it was pretty like what
Mr M'Queen had recited.

But when Mr M'Queen read a description of Cuchullin's sword in Erse,
together with a translation of it in English verse, by
Sir James Foulis, Mr M'Leod said, that was much more like
than Mr M'Pherson's translation of the former passage. Mr M'Queen
then repeated in Erse a description of one of the horses in
Cuchillin's car. Mr M'Leod said, Mr M'Pherson's English was
nothing like it.

When Dr Johnson came down, I told him that I had now
obtained some evidence concerning Fingal; for that Mr M'Queen had
repeated a passage in the original Erse, which Mr M'Pherson's
translation was pretty like; and reminded him that he himself
had once said, he did not require Mr M'Pherson's Ossian to be more
like the original than Pope's Homer. JOHNSON. 'Well, sir, this
is just what I always maintained. He has found names, and stories,
and phrases, nay passages in old songs, and with them has blended
his own compositions, and so made what he gives to the world
as the translation of an ancient poem.' If this was the case, I
observed, it was wrong to publish it as a poem in six books.
JOHNSON. 'Yes, sir; and to ascribe it to a time too when
the Highlanders knew nothing of BOOKS, and nothing of SIX; or
perhaps were got the length of counting six.

We have been told, by Condamine, of a nation that could count no
more than four.

This should be told to Monboddo; it would help him. There is
as much charity in helping a man down-hill, as in helping him
up-hill.' BOSWELL. 'I don't think there is as much charity.'
JOHNSON. 'Yes, sir, if his TENDENCY be downwards.
Till he is at the bottom, he flounders; get him once there, and
he is quiet. Swift tells, that Stella had a trick, which she
learned from Addison, of encouraging a man in absurdity, instead
of endeavouring to extricate him.'
Mr M'Queen's answers to the inquiries concerning Ossian were
so unsatisfactory, that I could not help observing, that, were
he examined in a court of justice, he would find himself under a
necessity of being more explicit. JOHNSON. 'Sir, he has
told Blair a little too much, which is published; and he
sticks to it.

He is so much at the head of things here, that he has never been
accustomed to be closely examined; and so he goes on quite
smoothly.' BOSWELL. 'He has never had any body to work him.'
JOHNSON. 'No, sir; and a man is seldom disposed to work
himself; though he ought to work himself, to be sure.' Mr M'Queen
made no reply. [Footnote: I think it but justice to say,
that I believe Dr Johnson meant to ascribe Mr M'Queen's conduct
to inaccuracy and enthusiasm, and did not mean any severe
imputation against him.]
Having talked of the strictness with which witnesses are examined
in courts of justice, Dr Johnson told us, that Garrick, though
accustomed to face multitudes, when produced as a witness in
Westminster Hall, was so disconcerted by a new mode of publick
appearance, that he could not understand what was asked. It was a
cause where an actor claimed a free benefit; that is to say, a
benefit without paying the expence of the house; but the meaning
of the term was disputed.

Garrick was asked, 'Sir, have you a free benefit?' 'Yes.' 'Upon
what terms have you it?' 'Upon...the terms...of ...a FREE BENEFIT.'
He was dismissed as one from whom no information could be obtained.
Dr Johnson is often too hard on our friend Mr Garrick. When I asked
him, why he did not mention him in the Preface to his Shakspeare,
he said, 'Garrick has been liberally paid for any thing he
has done for Shakspeare. If I should praise him, I should much
more praise the nation who paid him.
He has not made Shakspeare better known; [Footnote: It has
been triumphantly asked, 'Had not the plays of Shakspeare lain
dormant for many years before the appearance of Mr Garrick?

Did he not exhibit the most excellent of them frequently for
thirty years together, and render them extremely popular by his
own inimitable performance?' He undoubtedly did. But Dr Johnson's
assertion has been misunderstood.
Knowing as well as the objectors what has been just stated, he
must necessarily have meant, that 'Mr Garrick did not as A CRITICK
make Shakspeare better known; he did not ILLUSTRATE any one PASSAGE
in any of his plays by acuteness of disquisition, sagacity of
conjecture:' and what had been done with any degree of excellence
in THAT way was the proper and immediate subject of his preface.

I may add in support of this explanation the following anecdote,
related to me by one of the ablest commentators on Shakspeare, who
knew much of Dr Johnson:
'Now I have quitted the theatre,' cries Garrick, 'I will
sit down and read Shakspeare.' ''Tis time you should,' exclaimed
Johnson, 'for I much doubt if you ever examined one of his plays
from the first scene to the last.'] he cannot illustrate Shakspeare:
So I have reasons enough against mentioning him, were reasons
necessary. There should be reasons FOR it.'

I spoke of Mrs Montague's very high praises of Garrick. JOHNSON.
'Sir, it is fit she should say so much, and I should say nothing.
Reynolds is fond of her book, and I wonder at it; for neither
I, nor Beauclerk, nor Mrs Thrale, could get through it.' [Footnote:
No man has less inclination to controversy than I have,
particularly with a lady. But as I have claimed, and am conscious
of being entitled to, credit, for the strictest fidelity, my respect
for the publick obliges me to take notice of an insinuation
which tends to impeach it.

Mrs Piozzi (late Mrs Thrale), to her Anecdotes of Dr Johnson,
added the following postscript:

Naples, Feb. 10, 1786.

Since the foregoing went to the press, having seen a passage from
Mr Boswell's Tour to the Hebrides, in which it is said, that I
could not get through Mrs Montague's Essay on Shakspeare, I do
not delay a moment to declare, that, on the contrary, I have always
commended it myself, and heard it commended by every one else;
and few things would give me more concern than to be thought
incapable of tasting, or unwilling to testify my opinion of its
excellence.

It is remarkable that this postscript is so expressed, as
not to point out the person who said that Mrs Thrale could not get
through Mrs Montague's book; and therefore I think it necessary
to remind Mrs Piozzi, that the assertion concerning her was
Dr Johnson's, and not mine. The second observation that I shall
make on this postscript is, that it does not deny the fact
asserted, though I must acknowledge from the praise it bestows
on Mrs Montague's book, it may have been designed to convey that
meaning.

What Mrs Thrale's opinion is or was, or what she may or may not
have said to Dr Johnson concerning Mrs Montague's book, it is
not necessary for me to inquire. It is only incumbent on me to
ascertain what Dr Johnson said to me. I shall therefore
confine myself to a very short state of the fact.

The unfavourable opinion of Mrs Montague's book, which Dr Johnson
is here reported to have given, is known to have been that which
is uniformly expressed, as many of his friends well
remember. So much for the authenticity of the paragraph, as far
as it relates to his own sentiments. The words containing the
assertion, to which Mrs Piozzi objects, are printed from my
manuscript Journal, and were taken down at the time.

The Journal was read by Dr Johnson, who pointed out some inaccuracies,
which I corrected, but did not mention any inaccuracy in the
paragraph in question: and what is still more material, and very
flattering to me, a considerable part of my Journal, containing
this paragraph, WAS READ SEVERAL YEARS AGO BY MRS THRALE HERSELF,
who had it for some time in her possession, and returned it to
me, without intimating that Dr Johnson had mistaken her
sentiments.

When the first edition of my Journal was passing through the
press, it occurred to me, that a peculiar delicacy was necessary
to be observed in reporting the opinion of one literary lady
concerning the performance of another; and I had such
scruples on that head, that in the proof sheet I struck out
the name of Mrs Thrale from the above paragraph, and two
or three hundred copies of my book were actually printed
and published without it; of these Sir Joshua Reynolds's
copy happened to be one. But while the sheet was working off, a
friend, for whose opinion I have great respect, suggested that
I had no right to deprive Mrs Thrale of the high honour
which Dr Johnson had done her, by stating her opinion along
with that of Mr Beauclerk, as coinciding with, and, as it were,
sanctioning his own. The observation appeared to me so weighty
and conclusive, that I hastened to the printing house, and, as a
piece of justice, restored Mrs Thrale to that place from which a
too scrupulous delicacy had excluded her.

On this simple state of facts I shall make no observation whatever.]

Last night Dr Johnson gave us an account of the whole process
of tanning, and of the nature of milk, and the various operations
upon it, as making whey, &c. His variety of information is surprizing;
and it gives one much satisfaction to find such a man bestowing
his attention on the useful arts of life. Ulinish was much
struck with his knowledge; and said, 'He is a great orator,
sir; it is musick to hear this man speak.'

A strange thought struck me, to try if he knew any thing of an
art, or whatever it should be called, which is no doubt very
useful in life, but which lies far out of the way of a philosopher
and poet; I mean the trade of a butcher. I enticed him into the
subject, by connecting it with the various researches
into the manners and customs of uncivilized nations, that have
been made by our late navigators into the South Seas. I began
with observing, that Mr (now Sir Joseph) Banks tells us,
that the art of slaughtering animals was not known in Otaheite,
for, instead of bleeding to death their dogs (a common food with
them), they strangle them. This he told me himself; and I supposed
that their hogs were killed in the same way. Dr Johnson said, 'This
must be owing to their not having knives, though they have
sharp stones with which they can cut a carcase in pieces tolerably.'
By degrees, he shewed that he knew something even of butchery.
'Different animals,' said he, 'are killed differently. An ox
is knocked down, and a calf stunned; but a sheep has its throat
cut, without any thing being done to stupify it. The butchers
have no view to the ease of the animals, but only to make them
quiet, for their own safety and convenience. A sheep can give
them little trouble. Hales is of opinion, that every animal
should be blooded, without having any blow given to it,
because it bleeds better.' BOSWELL. 'That would be cruel.'
JOHNSON. 'No, sir; there is not much pain, if the jugular vein
be properly cut.'

Pursuing the subject, he said, the kennels of Southwark ran
with blood two or three days in the week; that he was afraid there
were slaughter-houses in more streets in London than one supposes
(speaking with a kind of horrour of butchering), and yet, he added,
'any of us would kill a cow, rather than not have beef.'

I said we COULD not. 'Yes,' said he, 'any one may. The business
of a butcher is a trade indeed, that is to say, there is an
apprenticeship served to it; but it may be learnt in a month.'
I mentioned a club in London, at the Boar's Head in Eastcheap,
the very tavern where Falstaff and his joyous companions
met; the members of which all assume Shakspeare's characters.
One is Falstaff, another Prince Henry, another Bardolph, and so
on. JOHNSON. 'Don't be of it, sir. Now that you have a name, you
must be careful to avoid many things, not bad in themselves,
but which will lessen your character.
[Footnote: I do not see why I might not have been of this club
without lessening my character. But Dr Johnson's caution
against supposing one's self concealed in London, may be very
useful to prevent some people from doing many things, not only
foolish, but criminal.] This every man who has a name must
observe. A man who is not publickly known may live in London
as he pleases, without any notice being taken of him; but it
is wonderful how a person of any consequence is watched. There
was a Member of Parliament, who wanted to prepare himself to speak
on a question that was to come in the House; and he and I were to
talk it over together.

He did not wish it should be known that he talked with me; so he
would not let me come to his house, but came to mine. Some
time after he had made his speech in the house, Mrs Cholmondeley,
a very airy lady, told me, "Well, you could make nothing of him!"
naming the gentleman, which was a proof that he was watched.

I had once some business to do for government, and I went to Lord
North's. Precaution was taken that it should not be known. It
was dark before I went; yet a few days after I was told,
"Well, you have been with Lord North." That the door of the Prime
Minister should be watched, is not strange; but that a Member
of Parliament should be watched, or that my door should be
watched, is wonderful.'
We set out this morning on our way to Talisker, in Ulinish's boat,
having taken leave of him and his family. Mr Donald M'Queen still
favoured us with his company, for which we were much obliged to
him.
As we sailed along Dr Johnson got into one of his fits of railing
at the Scots. He owned that they had been a very learned nation
for a hundred years, from about 1550 to about 1650; but that
they afforded the only instance of a people among whom the arts
of civil life did not advance in proportion with learning; that
they had hardly any trade, any money, or any elegance, before the
Union; that it was strange that, with all the advantages possessed
by other nations, they had not any of those conveniences and
embellishments which are the fruit of industry, till they came in
contact with a civilized people.

'We have taught you,' said he, 'and we'll do the same in time to
all barbarous nations, to the Cherokees, and at last to the
Ouran- Outangs'; laughing with as much glee as if Monboddo had
been present.
BOSWELL. 'We had wine before the Union.' JOHNSON. 'No, sir; you
had some weak stuff, the refuse of France, which would not make
you drunk.' BOSWELL. 'I assure you, sir, there was a great deal of
drunkenness.' JOHNSON. 'No, sir; there were people who died of
dropsies, which they contracted in trying to get drunk.'Out
of the desire for activity grows a desire for experience born of
the pleasure of excitement that we spoke of previously. This
desire for experience becomes built up into strange forms under
teaching and through the results of experience. It is very strong
in some who become explorers, roues, vagabonds, scientists as a
result, and it is very weak in others who stay at home and seek
only the safe and limited experience. You see two children in one
room,--and one sits in the middle of the floor, perhaps playing
with a toy or looking around, and the other has investigated the
stove and found it hotter than he supposed, has been under the
table and bumped his head, has found an unusually sweet white
lump which in later life he will call sugar. The good child is
often without sufficient curiosity to be bad, whereas the bad
child may be an overzealous seeker of experience.

So our child reaching out for things develops ideas of cause,
effect and power, commences to have an idea of himself as a cause
and likes the feeling of power. As he learns to walk, the world
widens, his sense of power grows, and his feeling of personality
increases. Meanwhile another side of his nature has been
developing and one fully as important.

The persons in his world have become quite individual; mother is
now not alone, for father is recognized with pleasure as one who
likewise is desirable. He carries one on his shoulder so that a
pleasurable excitement results; he plays with one, holds out
strings and toys and other instruments for the obtaining of
experience. Usually both of these great personages are friendly,
their faces wear a smile or a tender look, and our little one is
so organized that smiles and tender looks awaken comfortable
feelings and he smiles in return. The smile is perhaps the first
great message one human being sends to another; it says, "See, I
am friendly, I wish you well." Later on in the history of the
child, he will learn much about smiles of other kinds, but at
this stage they are all pleasant. Though his parents are usually
friendly and give, now and then they deprive, and they look
different; they say, "No, no!" This "no, no" is social
inhibition, it is backed up by the power of deprivation,
punishment, disapproval; it has its power in a something in our
nature that gives society its power over us. From now there steps
in a factor in the development of character of which we have
already spoken, a group of desires that have their source in the
emotional response of the child to the parent, in the emotional
response of an individual to his group. Out of the social
pressure arises the desire to please, to win approval, to get
justification, and these struggle in the mind of the child with
other desires.

We said the child seeks experience,--but not only on his own
initiative. The father stands against the wall, perhaps with one
foot crossing the other. Soon he feels a pressure and looks down;
there is the little one standing in his imitation of the same
position. Imitation, in my belief, is secondary to a desire for
experience. The child does not imitate everything; he is equipped
to notice only simple things, and these he imitates. Why? The
desire to experience what others are experiencing is a basic
desire; it expresses both a feeling of fellowship and a
competitive feeling. We do not feel a strong tendency to imitate
those we dislike or despise, or do not respect, we tend to
imitate those we love and respect, those for whom we have a
fellow feeling. Part of the fellow feeling is an impulse to
imitate and to receive in a positive way the suggestion offered
by their conduct and manners.

Analogous to imitation, and part of the social instinct, is a
credulity, a willingness to accept as if personally experienced
things stated. Part of the seeking of experience is the asking of
questions, because the mind seeks a cause for every effect, a
something to work from. Indeed, one of the main mental activities
lies in the explaining of things; an unrest is felt in the
presence of the "not understood" which is not stilled until the
unknown is referred back to a thing understood or accepted
without question. The child finds himself in a world with
laid-down beliefs and with explanations of one kind or another
for everything. His group differs from other groups in its
explanations and beliefs; his family even may be peculiar in
these matters. He asks, he is answered and enjoined to believe.
Without credulity there could be no organization of society, no
rituals, no ceremonials, no religions and customs,--but without
the questioning spirit there could be no progress. Most of the
men and women of this world have much credulity and only a feeble
questioning tendency, but there are a few who from the start
subject the answers given them to a rigid scrutiny and who test
belief by results. Let any one read the beliefs of savages, let
him study the beliefs of the civilized in the spirit in which he
would test the statement of the performance of an automobile, and
he can but marvel at man's credulity. Belief and the acceptance
of authority are the conservative forces of society, and they
have their origin in the nursery when the child asks, "Why does
the moon get smaller?" and the mother answers, "Because, dear,
God cuts a piece off every day to make the stars with." The
authorities, recognizing that their power lay in unquestioning
belief, have always sanctified it and made the pious,
non-skeptical type the ideal and punished the non-believer with
death or ostracism. Fortunately for the race, the skeptic, if
silenced, modifies the strength of the belief he attacks and in
the course of time even they who have defended begin to shift
from it and it becomes refuted. Beliefs, as Lecky[1] so well
pointed out, are not so of ten destroyed as become obsolete.

[1] Lecky: "History of European Morals." As he points out, the
belief in witchcraft never was disproved, it simply died because
science made it impossible to believe that witches could
disorganize natural laws.


It may seem as if imitation were a separate principle in mental
growth, and there have been many to state this. As is well known
Tarde made it a leading factor in human development. It seems to
me that it is linked up with desire for experience, desire for
fellowship, and also with a strongly competitive feeling, which
is early manifest in children and which may be called "a want of
what the other fellow has." Children at the age of a year and up
may be perfectly pleased with what they have until they see
another child playing with something,--something perhaps
identical with their own. They then betray a decided,
uncontrollable desire for the other child's toy; they are no
longer content with their own, and by one means or another they
seek to get it,--by forcible means, by wheedling or coaxing, or
by tormenting their parents. The disappearance of contentment
through the competitive feeling, the competitive nature of
desire, the role that envy plays in the happiness and effort of
man, is a thesis emphasized by every moralist and philosopher
since the beginning of things. In the strivings of every man,
though he admit it or not, one of the secret springs of his
energy is this law of desire, that a large part of its power and
persistence is in the competitive feeling, is in envy and the
wish to taste what others are experiencing.

A basic law of desire lies in an observation of Lotze, elaborated
by William James. We may talk of selfishness and altruism as if
they were entirely separate qualities of human nature. But what
seems to be true is that one is an extension of the other, that
is, we are always concerned with the ego feeling, but in the one
case the ego feeling is narrow and in the other case it includes
others as part of the ego. Lotze's observations on clothes shows
that we expend ego feeling in all directions, that we tend to be
as tall as our top hats and as penetrating as our walking sticks,
that the man who has a club in his hand has a tactile sense to
the very end of the club. James in his marvelous chapter on the
various selves points out that a man's interests and affections
are his selves, and that they enclose one another like the petals
of a rose. We may speak of unipetalar selves, who include only
their own bodies in self-feeling; of bipetalar selves who include
in it their families, and from there on we go to selves who
include their work, their community, their nation, until we reach
those very rare souls whose petals cover all living things. So
men extend their self-feeling, if ambitious, to their work, to
their achievements,--if paternal to their children; if domestic,
to wife and home; if patriotic to the nation, etc. Development
lies in the extension of the self-feeling and in the increase of
its intensity. But the obstacle lies in the competitive feelings,
in that dualism of man's nature that makes him yearn not only for
fellowship, but also for superiority. These desires are in
eternal opposition, but are not necessarily antagonistic, any
more than are the thumb and the little finger as they meet in
some task, any more than are excitation and inhibition. Every
function in our lives has its check and balance, and fellowship,
yearning and superiority urge one another.

From the cradle to the grave, we desire fellowship as an addition
to our gregarious feeling. We ask for approval, for we expand
under sympathy and contract under cold criticism. Nothing is so
pleasant as "appreciation," which means taking us at our own
valuation or adding to it,, and there is no complaint so common
as, "They don't understand me," which merely means, "They blame
me without understanding that I really seek the good, that I am
really good, though perhaps I seem not to be." The child who
hurts its thumb runs to its mother for sympathy, and the pain is
compensated for, at least in part, by that sympathy. Throughout
life we desire sympathy for our hurts, except where that sympathy
brings with it a feeling of inferiority. To be helped by others
in one way or another is the practical result of this aspect of
fellowship.

(There is a convincing physical element in the feelings and
desires of man, evidenced in language and phrase. Superiority
equals aboveness, inferiority equals beneathness; sympathy equals
the same feeling. To criticize is to "belittle" and to cause the
feeling of littleness; to praise is "to make a man expand," to
enlarge him. Blame hurts one's feelings,--"He wounded me," etc.)

At the same time we are strangely affected by the condition of
others. Where no competitive-jealousy complex is at work, we
laugh with other people in their happiness, we are moved to tears
by suffering; we admire vigor, beauty and the fine qualities of
others; we accept their purposes and beliefs; we are glad to
agree with the stranger or the friend and hate to disagree. We
establish within ourselves codes and standards largely because we
wish to accept and believe and act in the same way as do those we
want as fellows. Having set up that code as conscience or ideals,
it helps us to govern our lives, it gives a stability in that we
tend at once to resist jealousy, envy, the "wrong" emotions and
actions. "Helping others" becomes a great motive in life,
responding to misery with tears, consolation and kindness,
reacting to the good deeds of others with praise. To be generous
and charitable becomes method for the extension of fellowship.

Asking for help in its varied form of praise, appreciation and
kindness, giving help as appreciation and kindness, are the weak
and strong aspects of the fellowship feelings. It is a cynical
view of life, perhaps, but it is probably true that the weak
phase is more common and more constant than the second. Almost
everybody loves praise and appreciation, for these enlarge the
ego feeling, and some, perhaps most, like to be helped, though
here, as was above stated, there is a feeling of inferiority
aroused which may be painful. Relatively there are few who are
ready to praise, especially those with whom they are in close
contact and with whom they are in a sort of rivalry. The same is
true of genuine appreciation, of real warm fellow feeling; the
leader, the hero, the great man receives that but not the fellow
next door. As for giving, charity, kindness, these are common
enough in a sporadic fashion, but rarely are they sustained and
constant, and often they have to depend on the desire "not to be
outdone," not to seem inferior,--have, as it were, to be shamed
into activity. For there is competition even in fellowship.

There are people, especially among the hysterics, who are deeply
wounded when sympathy is not given, when appreciation and praise
is withheld or if there is the suggestion of criticism. They are
people of a "tender ego," not self-sustaining, demanding the help
of others and reacting to the injury sustained, when it is not
given, by prolonged emotion. These sensitive folk, who form a
most difficult group, do not all react alike, of course. Some
respond with anger and ideas of persecution, some with a
prolonged humiliation and feeling of inferiority; still others
develop symptoms that are meant to appeal to the conscience of
the one who has wounded them. On the other hand, there are those
whose feeling of self sustains them in the face of most
criticism, who depend largely upon the established mentor within
themselves and who seek to conform to the rulings of that inward
mentor. Such people, if not martyred too soon, and if possessed
of a fruitful ideal, lay new criteria for praise and blame.

Contrasting with the desires and purposes of fellowship we find
the desires and purposes of superiority and power. Primarily
these are based on what McDougall calls the instinct of
self-display, which becomes intellectualized and socialized very
early in the career of the child. In fact, we might judge a man
largely by the way he displays himself, whether by some
essentially personal bodily character, some essentially mental
attribute or some essentially moral quantity; whether he seeks
superiority as a means of getting power or as a means of doing
good; whether he seeks it within or without the code. One might
go on indefinitely, including such matters as whether he seeks
superiority with tact or the reverse and whether he understands
the essential shallowness and futility of his pursuit or not. To
be superior is back of most of striving, and it is the most
camouflaged of all human motives and pleasures. For this is true:
that the preaching of humility, of righteous conduct, of service,
of self-sacrifice, by religion and ethics have convinced man that
these are the qualities one ought to have. So men seek, whenever
they can, to dress their other motives and feelings in the garb
of altruism.

Camouflage of motive as a means of social approval has thus
become a very important part of character; we seek constantly to
penetrate the camouflage of our rivals and enemies and bitterly
resist any effort to strip away our own, often enough hiding it
successfully from ourselves. There are few who face boldly their
own egoism, and their sincerity is often admired. Indeed, the
frank child is admired because his egoism is refreshing, i. e.,
he offers no problem to the observer. Out of the uneasiness that
we feel in the presence of dissimulation and insincerity has
arisen the value we place on sincerity, frankness and honesty. To
be accused of insincerity or dishonesty of motive and act is
fiercely resented.

The desire for power and superiority will of course take
different directions in each person, according to his make-up,
teaching and the other circumstances of his life. Property as a
means of pleasure, and as a symbol of achievement and of personal
worth, is valued highly from the earliest days of the child's
life. Very early does the child show that it prizes goods, shows
an acquisitive trend that becomes finally glorified into a goal,
an ambition. Money and goods become the symbol and actuality of
power, triumph, superiority, pleasure, safety, benevolence and a
dozen and one other things. Men who seek money and goods may
therefore be seeking very different things; one is merely
acquisitive, has the miser trend; another loves the game for the
game's sake, picks up houses, bonds, money, ships, as a fighter
picks up trophies, and they stand to him as symbols of his
superiority. Some see in property the fulcrum by which they can
apply the power that will shift the lives of other men and make
of themselves a sort of God or Fate in the destinies of others.
For others, and for all in part, there is in money the safety
against emergencies and further a something that purchases
pleasure, whether that pleasure be of body, or taste or spirit.
Wine and women, pictures and beautiful things, leisure for
research and contemplation,--money buys any and all of these, and
as the symbol of all kinds of value, as the symbol of all kinds
of power, it is sought assiduously by all kinds of men.

There are many who start on their careers with the feeling and
belief that money is a minor value, that to be useful and of
service is greater than to be rich. But this idealistic ambition
in only a few cases stands up against the strain of life. Unless
money comes, a man cannot marry, or if he marries, then his wife
must do without ease and leisure and pretty things, and he must
live in a second-rate way. Sooner or later the idealist feels
himself uneasily inferior, and though he may compensate by
achievement or by developing a strong trend towards
seclusiveness, more often he regrets bitterly his idealism and in
his heart envies the rich. For they, ignorant and arrogant, may
purchase his services, his brains and self-sacrifice and buy
these ingredients of himself with the air of one purchasing a
machine. So the idealist finds himself condemned to a meager
life, unless his idealism brings him wealth, and he drifts in
spirit away from the character of his youth. It is the strain of
life, the fear of old age and sickness, the silent pressure of
the deprivations of a man's beloved ones, the feeling of
helplessness in disaster and the silent envious feeling of
inferiority that makes inroads in the ranks of the idealists so
that at twenty there are ten idealists to the one found at forty.

I remember well one of my colleagues, working patiently in a
laboratory, out of sight of the world and out of the stream of
financial reward, enthused by science and service, who threw up
his work and went into the practice of medicine. "Why?" I asked
him. "Because when one of my brothers took sick and was in dire
need, I who loved him could not help. I had no money, and all my
monographs put together could not help him buy a meal. There is a
cousin of ours, who has grown rich running a cheap moving-picture
house, where the taste of the community is debauched every day.
He lent my brother two thousand dollars out of his superfluities;
it involved no sacrifice to him, for he purchased a third car at
the same time--and yet HE is our savior. Love alone is a torture.
I am going to get money."

The world is built up on the sacrifices of the idealists, and
eternally it crucifies them. Wealth and power are to him who has
a marketable commodity, and one cannot complain when true genius
becomes rich. But the genius to make money may be and often
is--an exploiting type of ability, a selfishly practical
industry, which neither invents nor is of great service. The men
who now do the basic work in invention and scientific work in
laboratories are poorly paid and only now and then honored. Every
year in the United States hundreds of them leave their work in
research and seek "paying jobs," to the impoverishment of the
world, but to their own financial benefit. Countries where the
scramble for wealth is not so keen, where the best brains do not
find themselves pressed into business, produce far more science,
art and literature than we do, with all our wealth. We will
continue to be a second-rate nation in these regards, still
looking for our great American novel and play, still seeking real
singers and artists, until our idealism can withstand the
pressure of our practical civilization.

For here is a great division in people. There are those who
become enthused by the noble aims of life, by the superiority and
service that come in the work of teacher, priest, physician,
scientist, philosopher and philanthropist, and those that seek
superiority and power in wealth, station and influence. Those
who, will fellowship and those who will power is a short way of
putting it, the idealists and the practical is another.
Fellowship is built up on sympathy, pity, friendliness and the
desire to help others; it is essentially democratic, and in it
runs the cooperative activities of man. For it is not true that
"competition is the life of trade"; cooperation is its life. Men
dig ore in mines, others transport their produce, others smelt it
and work it into shape, according to the designs and plans of
still other men; then it is transported by new groups and
marketed by an endless chain of men whose labors dovetail to the
end that mankind has a tool, a habitation or an ornament. The
past and present cooperate in this labor, as do the remote ends
of the earth. Competition is the SPUR of trade; its mighty
sinews, its strong heart and stout lungs are cooperative.

Power is aristocratic, and elaborates and calls into play
competitive spirit. In all men the desire for power and the
desire for fellowship blend and interplay in their ambitions and
activities; in some fellowship predominates, in others power. If
a man specializes in fellowship aims, without learning the secret
of power, he is usually futile and sterile of results; if a man
seeks power only and disregards fellowship, is hated and is a
tyrant, cruel and without pity. To be an idealist and practical
is of course difficult and usually involves a compromise of the
ideal. Some degree of compromise is necessary, and the rigid
idealist would have a better sanction for his refusal to
compromise if he or any one could be sure of the perfection of
his ideal.

The practical seek their own welfare or the welfare of others
through direct means, through exerting the power and the
influence that is money and station. Rarely do they build for a
distant future, and their goal is in some easily and popularly
understood good. What they say and what they do applies to
getting rich or healthy, to being good in a conventional way;
success is their goal and that success lies in the tangibles of
life. They easily become sordid and mean, since it is not
possible always to separate good and evil when one is governed by
expediency and limited idea of welfare. This is also true,--that
while the practical usually tend to lose idealism entirely, and
find themselves the tools of habits and customs they cannot break
from, now and then a practical man reaches a high place of power
and becomes the idealist.

Though all men seek power and fellowship, we have a right to ask
what are a man's leading pursuits. And we must be prepared to
tear off a mask before we understand the most of our fellows, for
society and all of life is permeated with disguise. Now and then
one seeks to appear worse than he is, hates fuss and praise, but
this rare bird (to use slang and Latin in one phrase) is the
exception that proves the rule that men on the whole try to
appear better than they are. Rarely does a man say, "I am after
profit and nothing else," although occasionally he does; rarely
does the scientist say, "I seek fame and reward," even though his
main stimulus may be this desire and not the ideal of adding to
the knowledge of the world. Behind the philanthropist may lurk
the pleasure in changing the lives of others, behind the reformer
the picture of himself in history. The best of men may and do
cherish power motives, and we must say that to seek power is
ethically good, provided it does not injure fellowship. One must
not, however, be misled by words; duty, service, fellowship come
as often to the lips of the selfish as the unselfish.

We spoke of power as a form of superiority. Since all superiority
is comparative, there are various indirect ways of seeking
superiority and avoiding inferiority. One of these is by adverse
criticism of our fellows. The widespread love of gossip, the
quick and ever-present tendency to disparage others, especially
the fortunate and the successful, are manifestations of this type
of superiority seeking. Half the humor of the world is the
pleasure, produced by a technique, of feeling superior to the
boor, the pedant, the fool, the new rich, the pompous, the
over-dignified, etc. Half, more than half, of the conversation
that goes on in boudoir, dining room, over the drinks and in the
smoking room, is criticism, playful and otherwise, of others.
There are people in whom the adversely critical spirit is so
highly developed that they find it hard to praise any one or to
hear any one praised--their criticism leaps to the surface in one
way or another, in the sneer, in the "butt," in the joke, in the
gibe, in the openly expressed attack. This way of being superior
may be direct and open, more often it is disguised. Many a woman
(and man) who denounces the sinner receives from her
contemplation of that sinner the most of her feeling of virtue
and goodness. The more bitterly the self-acknowledged "saint"
denounces the sinner, the more, by implication, he praises
himself.

People seek the strangest roads to the feeling of superiority.
I would not advise him to commit such an act. On the contrary, I
would bid him submit to the determination of society, because a
man is bound to submit to the inconveniences of it, as
he enjoys the good: but the young man, though politically
wrong, would not be morally wrong. He would have to say, "Here I
am amongst barbarians, who not only refuse to do justice, but
encourage the greatest of all crimes. I am therefore in a state
of nature: for, so far as there is now law, it is a state of
nature: and consequently, upon the eternal and immutable law
of justice, which requires that he who sheds man's blood should
have his blood shed, I will stab the murderer of my father."'

We went to our inn, and sat quietly. Dr Johnson borrowed, at Mr
Riddoch's, a volume of Massilon's Discourses on the Psalms: but
I found he read little in it. Ogden too he sometimes took up, and
glanced at; but threw it down again. I then entered upon religious
conversation. Never did I see him in a better frame:
calm, gentle, wise, holy. I said, 'Would not the same objection
hold against the Trinity as against transubstantiation?' 'Yes,'
said he, 'if you take three and one in the same sense. If you do,
to be sure you cannot believe it: but the three persons in the
Godhead are Three in one sense, and One in another. We cannot
tell how; and that is the mystery!'
I spoke of the satisfaction of Christ. He said his notion was,
that it did not atone for the sins of the world; but, by satisfying
divine justice, by shewing that no less than the Son of God
suffered for sin, it shewed to men and innumerable created beings,
the heinousness of it, and therefore rendered it unnecessary for
divine vengeance to be exercised against sinners, as it otherwise
must have been; that in this way it might operate even in favour
of those who had never heard of it: as to those who did hear of
it, the effect it should produce would be repentance and piety, by
impressing upon the mind a just notion of sin: that original sin
was the propensity to evil, which no doubt was occasioned by the
fall.

He presented this solemn subject in a new light to me, [Footnote:
My worthy, intelligent, and candid friend, Dr Kippis, informs
me, that several divines have thus explained the mediation
of our Saviour. What Dr Johnson now delivered, was but a
temporary opinion; for he afterwards was fully convinced of the
propitiatory sacrifice, as I shall shew at large in my future
work, The life of Samuel Johnson, LL.D.] and rendered much more
rational and clear the doctrine of what our Saviour has done for
us, as it removed the notion of imputed righteousness in co-operating;
whereas by this view, Christ has done all already that he had to
do, or is ever to do, for mankind, by making his great satisfaction;
the consequences of which will affect each individual according to
the particular conduct of each.

I would illustrate this by saying, that Christ's satisfaction
resembles a sun placed to shew light to men, so that it depends
upon themselves whether they will walk the right way or
not, which they could not have done without that sun,
'the sun of righteousness'. There is, however, more in it than
merely giving light--'a light to lighten the Gentiles': for
we are told, there is 'healing under his wings'.
A democracy acknowledging in theory no
superiors will insist that every man be called "sir" and every
woman "madam," whereas an aristocracy laughs at that. In reality
there is no democracy anywhere, and so we address differently the
woman of the mansion and the woman of the hovel, The mistress of
the house calls her maid by her first name but would wonder what
the world is coming to if the maid became as familiar. In a
limited sense, manners and courtesy are conventional ways of
doing things, as the way of living, the tipping of the hat, the
form of greetings, the way of eating, but these conventions have
great value to the majority of people as evidencing breeding and
training or the lack (superiority or inferiority), and also as
removing doubt and choice, so that things run smoothly and
without contradiction. In a more noble sense, manners and
courtesy prescribe conduct in order to proscribe offense to the
self-valuation of others. Convention says, "Address people as if
they were your equals at least; don't contradict brusquely
because that implies their inferiority or stupidity; avoid too
controversial topics since bitterness and humiliation may thus
arise; do not notice defects or disabilities for the same reason;
do not brag or be too conspicuous, since to boast of superiority
is to imply the inferiority of others, and they will dislike
you," etc. We tend to dislike and hate those who make us feel
inferior, except under those special circumstances where
sex-love, awe and admiration enter to make a certain inferiority
desirable or befitting. So a large part of manners and courtesy
concern themselves with the formulae of conduct which avoid this
result to others, and we are also enjoined to conduct ourselves
so that others will not regard us as inferior. We speak of a man
as a "low person" if he eats with his knife, and very few things
so humiliate us as the knowledge that we have behaved in an
unmannerly way. One of the great purposes, then, is to be
conventional, to behave, dress and "look" according to an
accepted standard, one that is laid down for age, sex and social
station. There are people to whom convention is truly almost
holy, and true to our principle of variability, there are others
who hate convention.

Because many writers have shot shafts of satire and ridicule at
convention and custom, and because of the enormous reading
public, the artificial nature of convention has been emphasized
to that large part of the community that desires to be different
merely for the sake of being different, and there is built up a
conventional unconventionality. It has become the mark of the
artist, the great in spirit, to be unconventional (at least in
novels), and so there are a hundred "unconventional" poseurs to
one genuinely free in spirit. Anything that becomes a dogma or a
cult is not unconventional, for it is the standard or the custom
of a group. Most Bohemians, so-called, are poseurs and
conventionalized to their marrow. And most of the really
unconventional are "freaks," "odd sticks" whose grotesque
individualities cannot conform. But in the mass of the
unconventional one finds here and there, like nuggets of gold in
sand, the true reformers of the world.

The "poseurs" in custom have their analogies in the pompous,
over-dignified and over-important; the affected, in a word.
Affectation is felt to be a disharmony between the pose and the
inner values or an attempt to win superiority or "difference" of
a superior kind by acting. In either case it excites ridicule,
hatred or disgust, and shafts at it form part of the stock in
trade of the satirist, humorist and indeed every portrayer of
life. What men demand of each other is sincerity, and even where
the insincerity is merely a habitual pose it arouses hostile
feeling which expresses itself all the way from criticism to the
overt act.

Since to feel superior is so highly prized in social
relationships of all kinds, part of the technique of those
seeking some advantage or other--economic, social, personal--from
those who must be influenced is to give them the feeling of
superiority. Flattery, cajolement, humble supplication and the
finer maneuvers of tact, all have this in mind. These however are
palatable to the intelligent only when felt to be sincere and
when emanating from some one more or less esteemed, though there
are plenty who "fall" for the grossest flattery from almost any
one, whose ego feeling is easily inflated with a corresponding
shrinking in judgment and common sense. In the relations of men
and women, flattery in one shape or another plays an enormous
role --from the effect on women of the statement or implication
in a subtle or gross way that they are charming, and the effect
on men of acknowledged superiority in strength courage or
intelligence. Of course, in both cases the effect is partly in
the physical attractiveness of the flatterer and tends to become
ridiculous when he or she is without charm. The simpering
language that is irresistible when uttered by a starry-eyed maid
of eighteen loses somewhat in beauty and effect when emanating
from the lips of bespectacled forty. The power to use and the
power to resist flattery in any of its forms have played almost
as great a role in the history of the race as strength, beauty or
intelligence.

It would be futile to elaborate in detail the various ways of
seeking superiority or resisting inferiority. Two directions of
this impulse need some attention, as they lead to personality
traits of great importance. "Having one's way" becomes a dominant
desire with many people, and much of the clashing that occurs in
families, organizations and the council chambers of nations
arises from a childish, egoistic seeking of superiority. People
enter into the most heated and sterile arguments, often coming to
blows, if the course of conduct they desire to have followed is
modified or blocked. Even when secretly convinced that they are
wrong, husbands and wives will continue to insist on victory, for
too often the domestic relationship is a struggle for leadership
and dominance rather than a partnership and a conference. He
remarked, that attacks on authors did them much service. 'A man
who tells me my play is very bad, is less my enemy than he who
lets it die in silence. A man, whose business it is to be talked
of, is much helped at being attacked.' Garrick, I observed, had
been often so helped. JOHNSON. 'Yes, sir; though Garrick
had more opportunities than almost any man, to keep the publick
in mind of him, by exhibiting himself to such numbers, he would
not have had so much reputation, had he not been so much
attacked. Every attack produces a defence; and so attention is
engaged. There is no sport in mere praise, when people are all
of a mind.' BOSWELL. 'Then Hume is not the worse for Seattle's
attack?' JOHNSON. 'He is, because Beattie has confuted him. I
do not say, but that there may be some attacks which will hurt
an author. Though Hume suffered from Beattie, he was the better
for other attacks.' (He certainly could not include in that
number those of Dr Adams, and Mr Tytler.) BOSWELL. 'Goldsmith
is the better for attacks.' JOHNSON.
'Yes, sir; but he does not think so yet. When Goldsmith and I
published, each of us something, at the same time, we were given
to understand that we might review each other. Goldsmith was for
accepting the offer. I said, No; set reviewers at defiance. It was
said to old Bentley, upon the attacks against him, "Why, they'll
write you down." "No, sir," he replied; "depend upon it, no man
was ever written down but by himself."'

He observed to me afterwards, that the advantages authours derived
from attacks, were chiefly in subjects of taste, where you
cannot confute, as so much may be said on either side. He told
me he did not know who was the authour of the Adventures of
a Guinea, but that the bookseller had sent the first volume
to him in manuscript, to have his opinion if it should be
printed; and he thought it should.

The weather being now somewhat better, Mr James M'Donald, factor
to Sir Alexander M'Donald in Slate, insisted that all the company
at Ostig should go to the house at Armidale, which Sir Alexander
had left having gone with his lady to Edinburgh, and be his
guests, till we had an opportunity of sailing to Mull. We accordingly
got there to dinner; and passed our day very cheerfully,
being no less than fourteen in number.

Saturday, 2d October
Dr Johnson said, that 'a chief and his lady should make their
house like a court. They should have a certain number
of the gentlemen's daughters to receive their education
in the family, to learn pastry and such things from the housekeeper,
and manners from my lady.

That was the way in the great families in Wales; at Lady Salisbury's,
Mrs Thrale's grandmother, and at Lady Philips's. I distinguish the
families by the ladies, as I speak of what was properly their
province.

There were always six young ladies at Sir John Philips's:
when one was married, her place was filled up. There was a large
school-room, where they learnt needlework and other things.' I
observed, that, at some courts in Germany, there were academies
for the pages, who are the sons of gentlemen, and receive their
education without any expence to their parents. Dr Johnson said,
that manners were best learnt at those courts. 'You are admitted
with great facility to the prince's company, and yet must treat
him with much respect. At a great court, you are at such a distance
that you get no good.' I said, 'Very true: a man sees the court
of Versailles, as if he saw it on a theatre.' He said, 'The best
book that ever was written upon good breeding, Il Corteggiano,
by Castiglione, grew up at the little court of Urbino,
and you should read it.' I am glad always to have his opinion of
books. At Mr M'Pherson's, he commended Whitby's Commentary, and
said, he had heard him called rather lax; but he did not
perceive it.

He had looked at a novel, called The Man of the World, at
Rasay, but thought there was nothing in it. He said to-day,
while reading my Journal, 'This will be a great treasure
to us some years hence.'
Talking of a very penurious gentleman of our acquaintance, he
observed, that he exceeded L'Avare in the play. I concurred
with him, and remarked that he would do well, if introduced in
one of Foote's farces; that the best way to get it done, would be
to bring Foote to be entertained at his house for a week, and then
it would be facit indignatio.

JOHNSON. 'Sir, I wish he had him. I, who have eaten his bread,
will not give him to him, but I should be glad he came
honestly by him.'
He said, he was angry at Thrale, for sitting at General
Oglethorpe's without speaking. He censured a man for
degrading himself to a non-entity. I observed, that
Goldsmith was on the other extreme; for he spoke at all ventures.
JOHNSON. 'Yes, sir; Goldsmith, rather than not speak, will
talk of what he knows himself to be ignorant, which can only end
in exposing him.' 'I wonder,' said I, 'if he feels that he
exposes himself. If he was with two taylors...' 'Or with two
founders,' said Dr Johnson, interrupting me, 'he would fall a
talking on the method of making cannon, though both of them would
soon see that he did not know what metal a cannon is made of.'
We were very social and merry in his room this forenoon. In the
evening the company danced as usual. We performed, with much
activity, a dance which, I suppose, the emigration from Sky
has occasioned. They call it 'America'. Each of the couples,
after the common involutions and evolutions, successively whirls
round in a circle, till all are in motion; and the dance seems
intended to shew how emigration catches, till a whole neighbourhood
is set afloat. Mrs M'Kinnon told me, that last year when a
ship sailed from Portree for America, the people on shore were
almost distracted when they saw their relations go off; they lay
down on the ground, tumbled, and tore the grass with their teeth.

This year there was not a tear shed. The people on shore seemed
to think that they would soon follow. This indifference is a mortal
sign for the country.

We danced to night to the musick of the bagpipe, which made us
beat the ground with prodigious force. I thought it better to
endeavour to conciliate the kindness of the people of
Sky, by joining heartily in their amusements, than to play the
abstract scholar. I looked on this tour to the Hebrides as
a copartnership between Dr Johnson and me.
Each was to do all he could to promote its success; and I have
some reason to flatter myself, that my gayer exertions were
of service to us. Dr Johnson's immense fund of knowledge and wit
was a wonderful source of admiration and delight to them; but they
had it only at times; and they required to have the intervals
agreeably filled up, and even little elucidations of his learned
text. I was also fortunate enough frequently to draw him forth to
talk, when he would otherwise have been silent. The fountain
was at times locked up, till I opened the spring. It was curious
to hear the Hebridians, when any dispute happened while
he was out of the room, saying, 'Stay till Dr Johnson
comes: say that to HIM!'
Yesterday Dr Johnson said, 'I cannot but laugh, to think of
myself roving among the Hebrides at sixty. I wonder where I shall
rove at fourscore!'

This evening he disputed the truth of what is said, as to
the people of St Kilda catching cold whenever strangers come.
'How can there,' said he, 'be a physical effect without a
physical cause?' He added, laughing, 'the arrival of a ship full
of strangers would kill them; for, if one stranger gives them
one cold, two strangers must give them two colds; and so in
proportion.' I wondered to hear him ridicule this, as he had
praised M'Aulay 247 for putting it in his book: saying, that it
was manly in him to tell a fact, however strange, if he himself
believed it. He said, the evidence was not adequate to the
improbability of the thing; that if a physician, rather
disposed to be incredulous, should go to St Kilda, and report
the fact, then he would begin to look about him. They said, it was
annually proved by M'Leod's steward, on whose arrival all the
inhabitants caught cold.

He jocularly remarked, 'the steward always comes to demand
something from them; and so they fall a coughing. I suppose
the people in Sky all take a cold, when--' (naming a certain
person) 'comes.' They said, he came only in summer. JOHNSON. 'That
is out of tenderness to you. Bad weather and he, at the same
time, would be too much.'

Sunday, 3d October
Joseph reported that the wind was still against us. Dr Johnson
said, 'A wind, or not a wind? that is the question'; for he
can amuse himself at times with a little play of words, or rather
sentences. I remember when he turned his cup at Aberbrothick,
where we drank tea, he muttered, Claudite jam rivos, pueri. I
must again and again apologize to fastidious readers, for
recording such minute particulars. They prove the scrupulous
fidelity of my Journal. Dr Johnson said it was a very
exact picture of a portion of his life.

While we were chatting in the indolent stile of men who were to
stay here all this day at least, we were suddenly roused
at being told that the wind was fair, that a little fleet
of herring-busses was passing by for Mull, and that Mr Simpson's
vessel was about to sail. Hugh M'Donald, the skipper, came
to us, and was impatient that we should get ready, which we soon
did. Dr Johnson, with composure and solemnity, repeated the
observation of Epictetus, that, 'as man has the voyage of death
before him, whatever may be his employment, he should be ready
at the master's call; and an old man should never be far
from the shore, lest he should not be able to get himself
ready'.

He rode, and I and the other gentlemen walked, about an English
mile to the shore, where the vessel lay. Dr Johnson said, he
should never forget Sky, and returned thanks for all civilities.
We were carried to the vessel in a small boat which she had, and
we set sail very briskly about one o'clock. I was much pleased
with the motion for many hours.
Dr Johnson grew sick, and retired under cover, as it rained a
good deal. I kept above, that I might have fresh air, and
finding myself not affected by the motion of the vessel, I exulted
in being a stout seaman, while Dr Johnson was quite in a
state of annihilation. But I was soon humbled; for after imagining
that I could go with ease to America or the East Indies, I became
very sick, but kept above board, though it rained hard.

As we had been detained so long in Sky by bad weather, we gave up
the scheme that Col had planned for us of visiting several islands,
and contented ourselves with the prospect of seeing Mull,
and Icolmkill and Inchkenneth, which lie near to it.

Mr Simpson was sanguine in his hopes for a-while, the wind being
fair for us. He said, he would land us at Icolmkill that night.
But when the wind failed, it was resolved we should make for
the sound of Mull, and land in the harbour of Tobermorie. We
kept near the five herring vessels for some time; but afterwards
four of them got before us, and one little wherry fell behind
us. When we got in full view of the point of Ardnamurchan,
the wind changed, and was directly against our getting into the
sound. We were then obliged to tack, and get forward in that tedious
manner. As we advanced, the storm grew greater, and the sea
very rough. Col then began to talk of making for Egg, or Canna,
or his own island. Our skipper said, he would get us into the Sound.

Having struggled for this a good while in vain, he said, he
would push forward till we were near the land of Mull, where
we might cast anchor, and lie till the morning; for although,
before this, there had been a good moon, and I had pretty
distinctly seen not only the land of Mull, but up the
Sound, and the country of Morven as at one end of it, the night
was now grown very dark. Our crew consisted of one M'Donald,
our skipper, and two sailors, one of whom had but one eye; Mr
Simpson himself, Col, and Hugh M'Donald his servant, all helped.
Simpson said, he would willingly go for Col, if young Col or his
servant would undertake to pilot us to a harbour; but, as the
island is low land, it was dangerous to run upon it in the dark.
Col and his servant appeared a little dubious. The scheme of
running for Canna seemed then to be embraced; but Canna was
ten leagues off, all out of our way; and they were
afraid to attempt the harbour of Egg.
All these different plans were sucessively in agitation. The
old skipper still tried to make for the land of Mull, but then
it was considered that there was no place there where we could
anchor in safety. Much time was lost in striving against
the storm. At last it became so rough, and threatened to be so
much worse, that Col and his servant took more courage, and
said they would undertake to hit one of the harbours
in Col. 'Then let us run for it in God's name,' said the skipper;
and instantly we turned towards it. The little wherry which had
fallen behind us, had hard work.

The master begged that, if we made for Col, we should put
out a light to him. Accordingly one of the sailors waved a
glowing peat for some time. The various difficulties that
were started, gave me a good deal of apprehension, from which I
was relieved, when I found we were to run for a harbour before the
wind. But my relief was but of short duration; for I soon heard
that our sails were very bad, and were in danger of being torn in
pieces, in which case we should be driven upon the rocky shore
of Col. It was very dark, and there was a heavy and
incessant rain. The sparks of the burning peat flew so much about,
that I dreaded the vessel might take fire. Then, as Col was a
sportman, and had powder on board, I figured that we might
be blown up. Simpson and he appeared a little frightened,
which made me more so; and the perpetual talking, or rather
shouting, which was carried on in Erse, alarmed me still more.
A man is always suspicious of what is saying in an unknown
tongue; and, if fear be his passion at the time, he grows more
afraid. Our vessel often lay so much on one side, that I trembled
lest she should be overset, and indeed they told me afterwards,
that they had run her sometimes to within an inch of the water,
so anxious were they to make what haste they could before the night
should be worse. I now saw what I never saw before, a
prodigious sea, with immense billows coming upon a vessel, so as
that it seemed hardly possible to escape. There was something
grandly horrible in the sight. I am glad I have seen it once.
Amidst all these terrifying circumstances, I endeavoured to
compose my mind. It was not easy to do it; for all the stories
that I had heard of the dangerous sailing among the Hebrides,
which is proverbial, came full upon my recollection. When I thought
of those who were dearest to me, and would suffer severely,
should I be lost, I upbraided myself, as not having a sufficient
cause for putting myself in such danger. Piety afforded me
comfort; yet I was disturbed by the objections that have been
made against a particular providence, and by the arguments of those
who maintain that it is in vain to hope that the petitions of an
individual, or even of congregations, can have any influence with
the Deity; objections which have been often made, and which Dr
Hawkesworth has lately revived, in his preface to the Voyages to
the South Seas; but Dr Ogden's excellent doctrine on the efficacy
of intercession prevailed.

It was half an hour after eleven before we set ourselves
in the course for Col. As I saw them all busy doing something,
I asked Col, with much earnestness, what I could do. He,
with a happy readiness, put into my hand a rope, which was fixed
to the top of one of the masts, and told me to hold it till he
bade me pull. If I had considered the matter, I might have
seen that this could not be of the least service; but his
object was to keep me out of the way of those who were
busy working the vessel, and at the same time to divert my
fear, by employing me, and making me think that I was of use.
Thus did I stand firm to my post, while the wind and rain beat
upon me, always expecting a call to pull my rope.

The man with one eye steered; old M'Donald, and Col and his
servant, lay upon the fore-castle, looking sharp out for the
harbour. It was necessary to carry much 'cloth', as they
termed it, that is to say, much sail, in order to keep the vessel
off the shore of Col. This made violent plunging in a rough sea.
At last they spied the harbour of Lochiern, and Col cried, 'Thank
God, we are safe!' We ran up till we were opposite to it, and
soon afterwards we got into it, and cast anchor.

Dr Johnson had all this time been quiet and unconcerned. He had
lain down on one of the beds, and having got free from sickness,
was satisfied. The truth is, he knew nothing of the danger
we were in:

but, fearless and unconcerned, might have said, in the words
which he has chosen for the motto to his Rambler.

Quo me cunque rapit tempestas, deferor hospes.
[Footnote: For as the tempest drives, I shape my way. FRANCIS.]

Once, during the doubtful consultations, he asked whither we were
going; and upon being told that it was not certain whether to
Mull or Col, he cried, 'Col for my money!' I now went down, with
Col and Mr Simpson, to visit him. He was lying in philosophick
tranquillity with a greyhound of Col's at his back, keeping him
warm. Col is quite the Juvenis qui gaudet canibus. He had, when
we left Talisker, two greyhounds, two terriers, a pointer, and a
large Newfoundland water-dog. He lost one of his terriers by the
road, but had still five dogs with him. I was very ill, and very
desirous to get to shore. When I was told that we could not land
that night, as the storm had now increased, I looked so miserably,
as Col afterwards informed me, that what Shakspeare has made the
Frenchman say of the English soldiers, when scantily dieted, 'Piteous
they will look, like drowned mice!' might, I believe, have been
well applied to me.Play, sports, short frequent vacations rather than long
ones, freedom from ceremony as a rule--but now and then a full
indulgence in ceremonials--and a realization that there is no
freedom in self-indulgence.

I remember one Puritanically bred young woman who fled from her
restrictions and inhibitions and joined a "free love" colony in
New York. After two years she left, them and came back to New
England. Her statement of the situation she found herself; it
summarizes all attempts at "freedom." "It wasn't freedom. You
found yourself bound to your desires, a slave to every wish. It
grew awfully tiresome and besides, it brought so many
complications. Sometimes you loved where you weren't loved--and
vice versa. Jealousy was there, oh, so much of it--and pleasure
disappeared after a while. It wasn't conscience--I still believe
that right and wrong are arbitrary matters --but I found myself
envying people who had some guide, some belief, some restrictions
in themselves! For it seemed to me they were more free than I."

The fact is, for most men and women inhibition is no artificial
phenomenon, despite its burdensomeness. It is not only
inevitable, it is desirable. A feeling of power appears when one
resists; there is mental gain, character growth as a result. Life
must be purposive else it is vain and futile, and the feeling of
no achievement and failure is far more disastrous than a thousand
inhibitions.

Though man battles and compromises with himself, he also battles
and compromises with his fellows and circumstances. That is to
say, he must continually adjust himself to the unforeseen, the
obstacle, the favoring circumstance; the possible and impossible;
the certain and uncertain. Adjustment to reality is what the
neurologists call it, but they do not define reality, which
indeed cannot be defined. It is not the same thing for any two
persons. For some reality is success, for others it is virtue.
The scientist smiles at the reality of the love-sick girl, and
she would think his reality a bad dream. The artist says, "Beauty
is the reality"; the miser says, "Cash"; the sentimentalist
answers, "None of this but Love"; and the philosopher, aloof from
all these, defines reality as "Truth." And the skeptic asks,
"What is Truth?" We gain nothing by saying a man must adjust
himself to reality; we say something definite when we say he must
adjust his wishes to his abilities, to the opposing wills,
wisher, and abilities of others; to the needs of his family and
his country; to disease, old age and death; to the flux of the
river of life. In the quickness of adjustment we have a great
character factor; in the farsightedness of adjustment
(foreseeing, planning) we have another. Does a man take his
difficulties with courage and good cheer does he make the "best
of it" or is he plunged into doubt and indecision by obstacles or
complications? Is he calm, cool, collected, well poised, in that
he watches and works without too much emotion and maintains
self-feeling against adversity? We say a man is self-reliant when
he finds in himself resources against obstacles and does not call
on his neighbors for help. We would do well to extend the term to
the one whose fund of courage, hope, energy and resource springs
largely from within himself; who resists the forces that reduce
courage, hope and energy. A higher sort of man not only supplies
himself with the energetic factors of character, but he inspires,
as we say, others; he is a sort of bank of these qualities, with
high reserves which he gives to others. Contrast him with those
whose cry constantly is "Help, help." Charming they may be as
ornaments, but they deplete the treasury of life for their
associates and are only of value as they call out the altruism of
others.

There is no formula for adjustment. Intelligence, insight into
one's powers and capacities, caution, boldness, compromise,
firmness, aggressiveness, tact,--these and a dozen other traits
and qualities come into play. It is a favorite teaching of
optimistic sentimentalists, "Will conquers everything--it is
omnipotent." God's will is,--but no one else's. What happens when
two will and pray for diametrically opposing results? "Then God
is on the side of the heaviest battalions," said Napoleon.
Victory comes to the best prepared, the most intelligent, the
least hampered and the luckiest. Outside of metaphysics and
theology there is no abstract will; it is a part of purpose,
intelligence and instinct and shares in their imperfections and
limitations. To will the impossible is to taste failure, although
it may be difficult to know what is impossible. Fight hard, be
brave, keep your powder dry and have good friends is the best
counsel for adjustment. But learn resignation and cultivate a
sense of humor.

No inspiration in that? Well, I must leave inspiration to others
who have an infallible formula. The best I can offer in
adjustment is the old prayer, "Lord, make me love the chase and
not the quarry! Lord, make me live up to my ideals!"

Out of the welter of conflicts into which the individual is
plunged through his own nature and the nature of the life around
him, out of the experience of the race and the teaching of its
leaders come ideals. Good, Beauty, Justice,--these are good
deeds, beautiful things, true and non-contradictory expressions,
just acts raised to the divine and absolute, and therefore
worshiped. And their opposite, arising from evil deeds, ugly and
disgusting things, misleading experiences and suffering, become
unified into various forms of Evil. Life becomes divided into two
parts, Good and Evil, and personified (by the great majority)
into God and the Devil. Man seeks the Good, hates Evil, esteems
himself when he conforms to the ideal, loathes himself when he
violates it. He cannot judge himself; he wishes to know the
judgment of others and accepts or rejects that judgment.

We say man seeks pleasure, satisfaction, the Good. True. But it
is important to know that essentially he seeks a higher
self-valuation, seeks to establish his own dignity and worth and
has his highest satisfaction when that valuation is reached
through conformity with absolute standards.


CHAPTER XII. THE METHODS OF PURPOSE--WORK CHARACTERS

Having asked concerning any person, "What are his purposes?"
whether of power or fellowship, whether permanent or transitory,
whether adjustable or not, we next ask, "How does he seek their
fulfillment?"

"He who wills the end wills the means" is an old saying, but men
who will the same end may will different means. There have been
those who used assassination to bring about reform, and there are
plenty who use philanthropy to hasten their egoistic aims. The
nihilist who throws a bomb to bring about an altruistic state is
own cousin to the ward heeler who gives coal to his poor
constituents so that his grafting rule may continue.

1. There are those who use the direct route of force to reach
their goal of desire and purpose. They attempt to make no nice
adjustments of their wishes to the wishes of others; the
obstacle, whether human or otherwise must get out of their way or
be forcibly removed or destroyed. "A straight line is the
shortest distance between two points," and there is only one
absolute law,--"the good old rule, the simple plan that they may
take who have the power and they may keep who can." The
individuals who react this way to obstacles are choleric,
passionate, egoistic and in the last analysis somewhat brutal.
This is especially true if they seek force at first, for with
nearly all of us extreme provocation or desperation brings
direct-action measures.

Conspicuously those accustomed to arbitrary power use this
method. They have grown accustomed to believing that their will
or wish is a cause, able to remove obstacles of all kinds. When
at all opposed the angry reaction is extreme, and they tend to
violence at once. The old-fashioned home was modeled in tyranny,
and the force reaction of the father and husband to his children
and wife was sanctioned by law and custom. The attitude of the
employer to employee, universally in the past and still
prominent, was that of the master, able in ancient times to use
physical punishment and in our day to cut off a man's livelihood
if he showed any rebellion. In a larger social way War is crude
brute force, and those who delude themselves that the God of
victory is a righteous God have read history with a befoozled
mind. Force, though the world rests on it, is a terrible weapon
and engenders brutality in him who uses it and rebellion, hate
and humiliation in him upon whom it is used. It is an insult to
the dignity and worth of the human being. It must be used for
disciplining purposes only,--on children, on the criminal, and
then more to restrain than to punish. It cannot disappear from
the world, but it should be minimized. Only the sentimentalized
believe it can disappear entirely, only the brutal rejoice in its
use. Force is a crude way of asserting and obtaining superiority;
the gentle hate to use it, for it arouses their sympathy for
their opponent. Whoever preaches force as the first weapon in any
struggle is either deluded as to its value or an enemy of
mankind.

As a non-inhibited response, force and brutality appear in the
mentally sick. General paresis, cerebral arterio-selerosis,
alcoholic psychoses present classical examples of the impatient
brutal reaction, often in men hitherto patient and gentle.

2. Strategy or cunning appears as a second great method of
obtaining the fulfillment of one's purposes. We all use strategy
in the face of superior or equal power, just as we tend to use
force confronted by inferiority. There is of course a legitimate
use of cunning, but there is also an anti-social trend to it,
quite evident in those who by nature or training are schemers.
The strategist in love, war or business simulates what he does
not feel, is not frank or sincere in his statements and believes
firmly that the end justifies the means. He uses the indirect
force of the lie, the slander, insinuation --he has no aversion
to flattery and bribery--he uses spies and false witnesses. He is
a specialist in the unexpected and seeks to lull suspicion and
disarms watchfulness, waiting for the moment to strike. Sometimes
he weaves so tangled a web that he falls into it himself, and one
of the stock situations in humor, the novel and the stage is
where the cunning schemer falls into the pit he has dug for
others. In his highest aspect he is the diplomat; in his lowest
he is the sneak. People who are weak or cowardly tend to the use
of these methods, but also there is a group of the strong who
hate direct force and rather like the subtler weapons.

The strategist tends to be quite cynical, and his effect on his
fellow men is to increase cynicism and pessimism. They who have
suffered through the schemer grow to suspect their fellows under
any guise. They become suspicious and hard, determined never to
trust any one again. Indeed, practical wisdom to a large extent
is the wisdom of strategy and is full of mottoes and proverbs
inculcating non-generous ideals. When people have been "fooled"
or misled, the most valuable of the social cementing qualities,
faith in one's fellows, is weakened. Despite the disintegrating
effect of unscrupulous shrewdness, it is common enough to hear
men say of a successful votary of the art, "Well, I give him
credit. He is a very clever fellow, and he has brought home the
bacon." Success is so highly prized and admired that the means of
obtaining it becomes secondary in the eyes of the majority.

3. The role of speech in the relationships of human beings is of
course too great to be over-estimated. Speech becomes the prime
weapon in swaying and molding the opinions and acts of others. It
is the medium of the threat of force and the stratagem of
cunning, but also it enters human life as the medium of
persuasion and conviction. The speech ability, the capacity to
use words in attaining purpose, shows as striking variations as
any other capacity.

Though a function of intelligence, the power to speak (and write)
convincingly and easily, is not at all related to other phases of
intelligence. Though it can be cultivated, good verbalism is an
innate ability, and a most valuable one. The power to speak
clearly so as to express what is on one's own mind is uncommon,
as any one can testify who has watched people struggling to
express themselves. "You know" is a very frequent phrase in the
conversation of the average man, and he means that, "My words are
inadequate, but you know what I mean." The delight in the good
writer or speaker is that he relieves other people's
dissatisfaction in their own inadequate expression by saying what
they yearn to say for themselves, thus giving them a vicarious
achievement.

But the power of clear expression is not at all the power of
persuasion, although it may be a part of it. One may clearly
express himself and antagonize others. The persuader seeks to
discover the obstacles to agreement with him in the minds of
others and to remove or nullify them. He may seek to do this by a
clear exposition of his wishes and desires, by showing how these
will benefit the others (or at least not harm them), by meeting
logically or otherwise the objections and demonstrating their
futility. This he will attempt, if he is wise and practical, only
in a limited group or among those who are keen-minded and open to
reason. Even with them he will have to kindle and maintain their
interest, and he must arouse a favorable emotional state.

This latter is the principal goal in persuasion. Every good
speaker or writer who seeks to reach the mass of people needs the
effect of the great feelings--of patriotism, sympathy and
humor--needs flattery, gross or subtle, makes people laugh or
smile or feel kindly disposed to him before he attempts to get
their cooperation. He must place himself on their level, be
regarded as one of them; fellowship and the cooperative
tendencies must be awakened before logic will have value.

The persuader cuts his cloth to suit his case. He is a
psychologist of the intuitive type. He may thunder and scold if
he finds in his audience, whether numbering one or a million, a
tendency to yield to authority, and he then poses as that
authority, handing out his dicta in an awe-inspiring fashion. He
will awaken the latent trend to ridicule and scoffing by pointing
out inconsistency in others, or he may awaken admiration for his
fairness and justice by lauding his opponent, taking care not to
overdo it.

Persuasion is often a part of scheming, rarely is it used by the
forceful, except in the authoritative way or to arouse anger
against the opponent. It is the weapon of those who believe in
democracy, for all exposition has persuasion as its motive. A
statement must not only be true to others,--to the mass.
Therefore persuasion as applied to the great mass of people is
rarely closely knit or a fine exposition of truth and historical
evolution; that one must leave for the highbrow book or treatise.
It is passionate and pleading; it thunders and storms; it has wit
and humor; it deals with symbols and analogies, it plays on the
words of truth, justice, ideals, patriotism. It may be honest and
truthful, but it cannot be really accurate or of high
intellectual value.

Tradition has it that the original house was a summer residence of
Nell Gwynne, where she frequently entertained her royal
lover. It has also been stated that there was a place of public
entertainment here as early as 1738.

Whatever truth there may be in both those assertions, there
is no gainsaying the fact that the prosperity of Bagnigge Wells
dates from a discovery made by a Mr. Hughes, the tenant of the
house, in 1757.
This Mr.

Hughes took a pride in his garden, and was consequently much
distressed to find that the more he used his watering-can, the
less his flowers thrived. At this juncture a Dr. Bevis appeared
on the scene, to whom the curious circumstance was
mentioned. On tasting the water from the garden well he was
surprised to find its "flavour so near that of the best
chalybeates," and at once informed Mr. Hughes that it might be
made of great benefit both to the public and himself.

The next day a huge bottle of the water was delivered at Dr.
Bevis's house, and analysis confirmed his first impression.
Before he could proceed further in the matter, Dr. Bevis fell ill,
and by the time he had recovered notable doings had been accomplished
at Bagnigge Wells.

For Mr. Hughes was not wholly absorbed in the cultivation of flowers.
Visions of wealth residing in that well evidently captured his
imagination, and he at once set to work fitting up his gardens
as a kind of spa, where the public could drink for his
financial benefit. A second well was sunk and found to yield
another variety of mineral water, and the two waters were connected
with a double pump over which a circular edifice named the Temple
was constructed.

Other attractions were added as their necessity became
apparent.
They included a spacious banqueting hall known as the Long Room,
provided with an organ, and the laying out of the gardens in
approved style. No doubt the curative qualities of the waters
speedily became a secondary consideration with the patrons of the
place, but that probably troubled Mr. Hughes not at all so long as
those patrons came in sufficient numbers.
That they did come in crowds is demonstrated by the literature which
sprang up around the gardens, and by many other evidences.The emotional display renders the man uncomfortable,
it disturbs him, he fears to increase it lest the opponent become
sick, his conscience reproaches him, and he yields rather than
"make a fuss." Tears can be replaced by symptoms of a hysteric
nature. I do not mean that these symptoms are caused by the
effort to win, but they become useful and are made habitual. Nor
is this found only in woman; after an accident there are men in
plenty whose symptoms play a role in securing compensation for
themselves, not necessarily as malingerers. It is in human nature
to desire the sympathy of others, and in some cases this sympathy
is sought because through sympathy some other good will be
forthcoming,--a new dress, a lump sum of money, or merely
securing one's own way. Very noticeably do children tend to
injure themselves if crossed; anger tends to turn on itself, and
the effect on the other party is soon realized, and often
utilized. A child may strike its head against the floor without
any other motive than that arising from hopeless anger, but if
this brings the parents to their knees,[1] the association is
made and the experience becomes part of the working technique of
the child.

[1] This turning of anger upon itself is a factor in
self-destruction. It is seen, so the naturalists say, in the
snake and the asp, and it is common in human relations.


5. There is in man an urge to activity independent of reward save
in the satisfaction that comes from that activity. This current
is organized into work, and the goal becomes achievement. The
most powerful factor in discharging the energies of man is the
desire for achievement. Wealth, superiority, power, philanthropy,
renown, safety and pleasure enormously reinforce this purpose,
but behind the GOOD work of the world is the passion to create,
to make something, to mold the resisting forces of nature into
usefulness and beauty. Handicraftsman, artist, farmer, miner,
housewife, writer,--all labor contradicts the legend that work
is a curse. To gain by work, to obtain desires through labor, is
a method of attainment that is a natural ideal of man.

This makes opportune a discussion of the work-traits. Since ours
is an industrial society, in which the work of a member is his
means of obtaining not only respect, but a living, these traits
are largely those by which he is judged and by which he judges
himself.

Since work for some is their life and for others their means of
obtaining a living, it is obvious that the work-traits may be
all the traits of the individual, or only a few of them. Certain
traits are especially important, and to these we must limit
ourselves.

The energy of the individual. Some are so constituted that they
can constantly discharge their energy at a high rate. These are
the dynamics, the hyperkinetic, the Rooseveltian--strenuous--the
busy people, always able to do more. The modern American life
holds this type as an ideal, though it is quite questionable
whether these rather over-busy people do not lose in reflective
and creative ability. The rushing stream turns the wheels of the
mills, but it is too strenuous for stately ships. This type
however achieves things, is seen often in the fine executive and
usually needs no urging.

There is another fine type not so well adapted to our
civilization, which is easily exhausted, but can accomplish very
much in a short time; in other words discharges energy
intermittently at a high rate. Charles Darwin was of this
kind--intermittently hyperkinetic --obliged to rest after an
hour's labor, but by understanding this, WILLING to rest.
Unfortunately, unless one is a genius or rich, industry does not
make allowances for this type. Industry is organized on
steadiness of energy discharge,--eight hours every day, six days
a week.

The commonest type is the "average" person who is capable of
moderately intense but constant activity. This is the steady man
and woman; it is upon this steadiness that the whole
factory--shop system--is based. That this steadiness deadens,
injures vivacity and makes for restlessness, is another matter.

A distinctly pathological type is found in some feebleminded and
some high mentalities. This unfortunate discharges energy at a
low rate is slow in action and often intermittent as well as
hypokinetic. The loafer and the tramp are of this type. Around
the water front of the seaports one can find the finest specimens
who do odd jobs for as much as will pay for lodging and food and
drink. Perhaps the order of the desired rewards should be
reversed. Every village furnishes individuals of this group,
either unable or unwilling to work consecutively or with energy.
Often purposeless day-dreamers or else bereft of normal human
mentality, these are the chronically unemployed of our social-
industrial system.

It must be remembered that to work steadily every day and in the
same place is not an innate circumstance of man's life. For the
untold centuries before he developed into an agriculturist and a
handicraftsman, he sought his food and his protection in the
simplest way and with little steady labor. Whether as hunter or
fisher or nomad herdsman, he lived in the open air, slept in
caves or in rudely constructed shelters and knew nothing of those
purposes that keep men working from morning till night. It's a
long way from primitive man and his occupations, with their
variety and their relaxations, to the factory hand, shut up in a
shop all day and doing just one thing year in and year out, to
the housewife with her multitudinous, never-ending tasks within
four walls, to the merchant engrossed with profit and loss,
weighing, measuring, buying, selling and worrying without
cessation. The burden of steadiness in labor is new to the race,
and it is only habit, necessity and social valuation that keeps
most men to their wheel.

We would, I think, be oversentimental in our treatment of this
subject if we omitted two hugely important factors in work
character. Two powerful motives operate,--the necessity of
working and work as an escape from ourselves.

Not much need be said of the pressure of necessity. "To eat one
must work." This sentence condenses the threat behind most of the
workers of the world. They cannot stop if they would--for few are
those, even in prosperous communities, who have three months of
idleness in their savings. The feeling of insecurity this fact
brings makes a nightmare out of the lives of the many, for to the
poor worker the charity organization is part of the penalty to be
paid for sickness or unemployment. To my mind there are few
things more pathetic than a good man out of a job, and few things
for which our present society can be so heartily damned. Few even
of the middle class can rest; their way of living leaves them
little reserve, and so they plug along, with necessity as the
spur to their industry.

To escape ourselves! Put any person of adult age, or younger, in
a room with nothing to do but think, and you reduce him to abject
misery and restlessness. Most of our reading, entertainment, has
this object, and if necessity did not spur men on to work
steadily, the tedium of their own thoughts would. To reflect is
pleasant only to a few, and the need of a task is the need of the
average human being. Perhaps once upon a time in some idyllic
age, some fabled age of innocence, time passed pleasantly without
work. To-day, work is the prime way of killing time, adding
therefore to its functions of organizing activity, achievement
and social value of recreation.

Yet contradictory as it seems, though many of us love work for
its own sake, most of us do not love our own work. That is
because few of us choose our work; it is thrust upon us. Happy is
he who has chosen and chosen wisely!

Industry, energy, steadiness are parts of the work-equipment;
enthusiasm, eagerness, the love of work, in short, is another
part. Love of work is not a unitary character; it is a resultant
of many forces and motives. Springing from the love of activity,
it receives its direction from ambition and is reinforced by
success and achievement. Few can continue to love a work at which
they fail, for self-love is injured and that paralyzes the
activity. Here and there is some one who can love his work, even
though he is half-starved as a result,--a poet, a novelist, an
inventor, a scientist, but these dream and hope for better
things. But the bulk of the half-starved labor of the world,
half-starved literally as well as symbolically, has no light of
hope ahead of it and cannot love the work that does not offer a
reward. It is easy for those who reap pleasure and reward from
their labors to sing of the joy of work; business man,
professional man, artist, handicraftsman, farmer,--these may find
in the thing they do the satisfaction of the creative desires and
the reward of seeing their product; but the factory is a
Frankenstein delivering huge masses of products but eating up the
producers. The more specialized it becomes the less each man
creates of the unit, machine or ornament; the less he feels of
achievement. Go into a cotton mill and watch the machines and
their less than human attendants at their over-specialized tasks.
Then ask how such workers can take any joy in work? Let us say
they are paid barely enough to live upon. What food does the
desire for achievement receive? What feeds the love of the
concrete finished product of which a man can proudly say, "I did
it!" The restlessness of this thwarted desire is back of much of
that social restlessness that puzzles, annoys and angers the
better-to-do of the world. As the factory system develops, as
"efficiency" removes more and more of the interest in the task,
social unrest will correspondingly increase. One of the great
problems of society is this:

How are we to maintain or increase production and still maintain
the love of work? To solve this problem will take more than the
efficiency expert who works in the interest of production alone;
it will take the type of expert who seeks to increase human
happiness.

Native industry, the love of work are variables of importance. No
matter what social condition we evolve, there will be some who
will be "slackers," who will regard work as secondary to
pleasure, who will take no joy or pride in the finished product,
who will feel no loyalty to their organization; and vice versa,
there will be those working under the most adverse conditions who
will identify themselves, their wishes and purposes with "the
job" and the product. Nowhere are the qualities of persistent
effort and interest of such importance as in industry, and
nowhere so well rewarded.

In the habits of efficiency we have a group of mechanically
performed actions and stereotyped reactions essential for work.
Except in certain high kinds of work, which depend upon
originality and initiative, method, neatness and exactness are
essential. "Time is money" in most of the business of the world;
in fact time is the great value, since in it life operates. The
unmethodical and untidy waste time as well as offend the esthetic
tastes, as well as directly lose material and information. The
habits in this sense are the tools of industry, though exactness
may be defined as more than a tool, since it is also part of the
final result. He whose work-conscience permits him to be inexact,
permits himself to do less than his best and in that respect
cheats and steals.

The work-conscience is as variably developed as any other type of
conscience. There are those who are rogues in all else but not in
their work. They will not turn out a bad piece of work for they
have identified the best in them with their work. Contrariwise,
there are others who are punctilious in all other phases of
morality who are slackers of an easy standard in their work
efforts. This is as truly a double standard of morals as anything
in the sex sphere,--and as disastrous.

There is on every second wall in America the motto typical of our
country, "Do it now!" To it could be added a much better one, "Do
it well!" The energy of work and its promptness are only valuable
when controlled by an ideal of service and thoroughness. A great
part of the morals of the world is neglected; part of the
responsibility is not felt, in that a code of work is yet to be
enunciated in an authoritative way. I would have it shown
graphically that all inefficiency is a social damage with a
boomerang effect on the inefficient and careless, and in the
earliest school, teaching the need of thoroughness would be
emphasized. Our schools are tending in the other direction; the
curriculum has become so extensive that superficiality is
encouraged, the thorough are penalized, and "to get away with it"
is the motto of most children as a result.

In an ideal community every man and woman will be evaluated as to
intelligence and skill, and a place found accordingly. Since we
live a few centuries too soon to see that community, since jobs
are given out on a sort of catch-as-catch-can plan, it would be
merely a counsel of perfection to urge some such method.

Nevertheless ambitious parents, whose means or whose
self-sacrifice enable them to plan careers for their children,
should take into solemn account, not their own ambitions, but the
ability of the child. A man is apt to see in his son his second
self and to plan for him as for a self that was somehow to
succeed where he failed. But every tub in the ocean of human life
must navigate on its own bottom, and a father's wishes will not
make a poet into a banker or a fool into a philosopher. Nothing
is so disastrous to character as to be misplaced in work, and
there is as much social inefficiency in the high-grade man in the
low-grade place as when the low-grade man occupies a high-grade
place. We have no means of discovering originality, imagination
or special ability in our present-day psychological tests, and we
cannot measure intensity of purpose, courage and the quality of
interest. Yet watching a child through its childhood and its
adolescence ought to tell us whether it is brilliant or stupid,
whether it is hand-minded or word-minded, whether it is brave,
loyal, honest, a leader or a follower, etc. Moreover, the child's
inclinations should play a part in the plans made. A man who
develops a strong will where his desires lead the way will hang
back and be a slacker where dissatisfaction is aroused.

To that employer of labor who seeks more than dividends from his
"hands," who has in mind that he is merely an agent of the
community, and is not obsessed with the idea that he is "boss," I
make bold to make the following suggestions:

Any plan of efficiency must be based on sympathy and human
feeling. To avoid unnecessary fatigue is imperative, not only
because it increases production, but because it increases
happiness. Fatigue may have its origin in little matters,--in a
bad bench, in a poor work table, or an inferior tool. Chronic
fatigue[1] alters character; the drudge and slave are not really
human, and if your workers become drudges, to that degree have
you lapsed from your stewardship. Men react to fatigue in
different ways: one is merely tired, weak and sleepy --a "dope,"
to use ordinary characterization--but another becomes a dangerous
rebel, ready to take fire at any time.

[1] The Gilbreths have written an excellent little book on this
subject. Doctor Charles E. Myers' recent publication, "Mind and
Work," is less explicit, but worth reading.


More important than physical fatigue (or at least as important)
is the fatigue of monotony. If your shop is organized on a highly
mechanical basis, then the worker must be allowed to interrupt
his labors now and then, must have time for a chat, or to change
his position or even to lie down or walk. Monotony disintegrates
mind and body--disintegrates character and personality--brings
about a fierce desire for excitement; and the well-known fact
that factory towns are very immoral is no accident, but the
direct result of monotony and opportunity. Sunday, 7th November

My father and I went to publick worship in our parish-church, in
which I regretted that Dr Johnson would not join us; for, though
we have there no form of prayer, nor magnificent solemnity,
yet, as God is worshipped in spirit and in truth, and the same
doctrines preached as in the Church of England, my friend would
certainly have shewn more liberality, had he attended. I doubt
not, however, but he employed his time in private to very good
purpose.

His uniform and fervent piety was manifested on many
occasions during our tour, which I have not mentioned. His reason
for not joining in Presbyterian worship has been recorded in a
former page.

Monday, 8th November
Notwithstanding the altercation that had passed, my father who had
the dignified courtesy of an old Baron, was very civil to Dr
Johnson, and politely attended him to the post-chaise,
which was to convey us to Edinburgh.

Thus they parted. They are now in another, and a higher, state
of existence: and as they were both worthy Christian men, I trust
they have met in happiness. But I must observe, in justice
to my friend's political principles, and my own, that they have
met in a place where there is no room for Whiggism.

We came at night to a good inn at Hamilton. I recollect no
more.

Tuesday, 9th November
I wished to have shewn Dr Johnson the Duke of Hamilton's
house, commonly called the Palace of Hamilton, which is close by
the town. It is an object which, having been pointed out
to me as a splendid edifice, from my earliest years, in travelling
between Auchinleck and Edinburgh, has still great grandeur in my
imagination.

My friend consented to stop, and view the outside of it, but could
not be persuaded to go into it.

We arrived this night at Edinburgh, after an absence of
eighty-three days. For five weeks together, of the tempestuous
season, there had been no account received of us. I cannot
express how happy I was on finding myself again at home.

Wednesday, 10th November

Old Mr Drummond, the bookseller, came to breakfast. Dr Johnson
and he had not met for ten years. There was respect on his side,
and kindness on Dr Johnson's. Soon afterwards Lord Elibank came
in, and was much pleased at seeing Dr Johnson in Scotland.

His lordship said, 'hardly any thing seemed to him more
improbable'. Dr Johnson had a very high opinion of him. Speaking
of him to me, he characterized him thus:
'Lord Elibank has read a great deal. It is true, I can find in
books all that he has read; but he has a great deal of what
is in books, proved by the test of real life.' Indeed, there have
been few men whose conversation discovered more knowledge
enlivened by fancy. He published several small pieces of
distinguished merit; and has left some in manuscript, in particular
an account of the expedition against Carthagena, in which he
served as an officer in the army. His writings deserve to be
collected. He was the early patron of Dr Robertson, the historian,
and Mr Home, the tragick poet; who, when they we were ministers
of country parishes, lived near his seat. He told me, 'I saw
these lads had talents, and they were much with me.' I hope they
will pay a grateful tribute to his memory.

The morning was chiefly taken up by Dr Johnson's giving him an
account of our tour. The subject of difference in political
principles was introduced. JOHNSON. 'It is much increased by
opposition. There was a violent Whig, with whom I used to contend
with great eagerness. After his death I felt my Toryism much
abated.'

I suppose he meant Mr Walmsley of Lichfield, whose character
he has drawn so well in his life of Edmund Smith.

Mr Nairne came in, and he and I accompanied Dr Johnson to
Edinburgh castle, which he owned was 'a great place'. But I
must mention, as a striking instance of that spirit of contradiction
to which he had a strong propensity, when Lord Elibank was some
days after talking of it with the natural elation of a Scotchman,
or of any man who is proud of a stately fortress in his own
country, Dr Johnson affected to despise it, observing that,
'it would make a good PRISON in ENGLAND'.

Lest it should be supposed that I have suppressed one of
his sallies against my country, it may not be improper here to
correct a mistaken account that has been circulated, as to his
conversation this day. It has been said, that being desired to
attend to the noble prospect from the Castle Hill, he replied,
'Sir, the noblest prospect that a Scotchman ever sees, is the
high road that leads him to London.' This lively sarcasm was
thrown out at a tavern in London, in my presence, many years
before.

We had with us to day at dinner, at my house, the Lady Dowager
Colvill, and Lady Anne Erskine, sisters of the Earl of Kelly;
the Honourable Archibald Erskine, who has now succeeded to
that title; Lord Elibank; the Reverend Dr Blair; Mr Tytler, the
acute vindicator of Mary Queen of Scots, and some other
friends.

Fingal being talked of, Dr Johnson, who used to boast that he
had, from the first, resisted both Ossian and the giants of
Patagonia, averred his positive disbelief of its authenticity.
Lord Elibank said, 'I am sure it is not McPherson's.

Mr Johnson, I keep company a great deal with you; it is known
I do. I may borrow from you better things than I can say myself,
and give them as my own; but, if I should, every body will know
whose they are.' The Doctor was not softened by this compliment.
He denied merit to Fingal, supposing it to be the production of
a man who has had the advantages that the present age affords;
and said, 'nothing is more easy than to write enough in that style
if once you begin'. [Footnote: I desire not to be understood
as agreeing ENTIRELY with the opinions of Dr Johnson, which I
relate without any remark.

The many imitations, however, of Fingal, that have been published,
confirm this observation in a considerable degree.] One
gentleman in company expressing his opinion 'that Fingal was
certainly genuine, for that he had heard a great part of it
repeated in the original', Dr Johnson indignantly asked him,
whether he understood the original; to which an answer being
given in the negative, 'Why then,' said Dr Johnson, 'we see to
what THIS testimony comes: thus it is.'
I mentioned this as a remarkable proof how liable the mind of man
is to credulity, when not guarded by such strict examination as
that which Dr Johnson habitually practised. The talents and
integrity of the gentleman who made the remark, are unquestionable;
yet, had not Dr Johnson made him advert to the consideration,
that he who does not understand a language, cannot know that
something which is recited to him is in that language, he might
have believed, and reported to this hour, that he had 'heard a great
part of Fingal repeated in the original'.

For the satisfaction of those on the north of the Tweed, who may
think Dr Johnson's account of Caledonian credulity and inaccuracy
too strong, it is but fair to add, that he admitted the same
kind of ready belief might be found in his own country. 'He would
undertake,' he said, 'to write an epick poem on the story of Robin
Hood, and half England, to whom the names and places he should
mention in it are familiar, would believe and declare they had
heard it from their earliest years.'
One of his objections to the authenticity of Fingal, during the
conversation at Ulinish, is omitted in my Journal, but I perfectly
recollect it. 'Why is not the original deposited in some publick
library, instead of exhibiting attestations of its existence?
Suppose there were a question in a court of justice, whether
a man be dead or alive. You aver he is alive, and you bring
fifty witnesses to swear it: I answer, "Why do you not
produce the man "' This is an argument founded on one of the
first principles of the LAW OF EVIDENCE, which Gilbert would
have held to be irrefragable.

I do not think it incumbent on me to give any precise decided opinion
upon this question, as to which I believe more than some, and less
than others.

The subject appears to have now become very uninteresting to the
publick. That Fingal is not from beginning to end a
translation from the Gallick, but that some passages have been
supplied by the editor to connect the whole, I have heard
admitted by very warm advocates for its authenticity.
If this be the case, why are not these distinctly ascertained?
Antiquaries, and admirers of the work, may complain, that they
are in a situation similar to that of the unhappy gentleman
whose wife informed him, on her death-bed, that one of their
reputed children was not his; and, when he eagerly begged her
to declare which of them it was, she answered, 'THAT you shall
never know', and expired, leaving him in irremediable doubt as to
them all.

I beg leave to say something upon second sight, of which I have
related two instances, as they impressed my mind at the time. I
own, I returned from the Hebrides with a considerable degree of
faith in the many stories of that kind which I heard
with a too easy acquiescence, without any clear examination
of the evidence: but, since that time, my belief in those stories
has been much weakened, by reflecting on the careless inaccuracy
of narrative in common matters, from which we may certainly conclude
that these may be the same in what is more extraordinary. It is
but just, however, to add, that the belief in second sight
is not peculiar to the Highlands and Isles.

Some years after our tour, a cause was tried in the Court of
Session where the principal fact to be ascertained was, whether
a ship-master, who used to frequent the Western Highlands and
Isles, was drowned in one particular year, or in the year after.
A great number of witnesses from the parts were examined on each
side, and swore directly contrary to each other upon this
simple question. One of them, a very respectable chieftain,
who told me a story of second sight, which I have not mentioned,
but which I too implicitly believed, had in this case, previous to
this publick examination, not only said, but attested under his
hand, that he had seen the ship-master in the year subsequent to
that in which the court was finally satisfied he was drowned.

When interrogated with the strictness of judicial inquiry, and under
the awe of an oath, he recollected himself better, and retracted
what he had formerly asserted, apologizing for his inaccuracy, by
telling the judge 'A man will SAY what he will not SWEAR.'
By many he was much censured and it was maintained that every
gentleman would be as attentive to truth without the sanction
of an oath, as with it. Dr Johnson, though he himself was
distinguished at all times by a scrupulous adherence to truth,
controverted this proposition; and, as a proof that this
was not, though it ought to be, the case, urged the very
different decisions of elections under Mr Greville's Act, from
those formerly made. 'Gentlemen will not pronounce upon oath,
what they would have said, and voted in the House without the
sanction.'
However difficult it may be for men who believe in preternatural
communications, in modern times, to falsify those who are of a
different opinion, they may easily refute the doctrine of their
opponents, who impute a belief in second sight to superstition.

To entertain a visionary notion that one sees a distant or future
event, may be called superstition; but the correspondence of the
fact or event with such an impression on the fancy, though certainly
very wonderful, IF PROVED, has no more connection with superstition,
than magnetism or electricity.

After dinner, various topicks were discussed; but I recollect
only one particular. Dr Johnson compared the different talents
of Garrick and Foote, as companions, and gave Garrick greatly the
preference for elegance, though he allowed Foote extraordinary
powers of entertainment. He said, 'Garrick is restrained by some
principle; but Foote has the advantage of an unlimited range.
Garrick has some delicacy of feeling; it is possible to put him
out; you may get the better of him; but Foote is the most incompressible
fellow that I ever knew: when you have driven him into a corner,
and think you are sure of him, he runs through between your legs,
or jumps over your head, and makes his escape.'

Dr Erskine and Mr Robert Walker, two very respectable ministers
of Edinburgh, supped with us, as did the Reverend
Dr Webster. The conversation turned on the Moravian missions,
and on the Methodists.
Dr Johnson observed in general, that missionaries were too
sanguine in their accounts of their success among savages, and
that much of what they tell is not to be believed. He owned that
the Methodists had done good; had spread religious impressions
among the vulgar part of mankind: but, he said, they had great
bitterness against other Christians, and that he never could get
a Methodist to explain in what he excelled others; that it always
ended in the indispensible necessity of hearing one of their
preachers.

Thursday, 11th November
Principal Robertson came to us as we sat at breakfast; he advanced
to Dr Johnson, repeating a line of Virgil, which I forget. I
suppose, either
Post varios casus, per tot discrimina rerum, [Footnote: Through
various hazards and events we move.]
or
... multum ille et terris jactatus, et alto.
[Footnote: Long labours both by sea and land he bore. DRYDEN.]

Every body had accosted us with some studied compliment on our
return.
Dr Johnson said, 'I am really ashamed of the congratulations which
we receive. We are addressed as if we had made a voyage to Nova
Zembla, and suffered five persecutions in Japan.' And he afterwards
remarked, that, 'to see a man come up with a formal air, and a
Latin line, when we had no fatigue and no danger, was provoking.'

I told him, he was not sensible of the danger, having
lain under cover in the boat during the storm: he was like the
chicken, that hides its head under its wing, and then thinks
itself safe.

Lord Elibank came to us, as did Sir William Forbes. The rash
attempt in 1745 being mentioned, I observed, that it would make a
fine piece of history. Dr Johnson said it would. Lord
Elibank doubted whether any man of this age could give it
impartially. JOHNSON.

'A man, by talking with those of different sides, who were
actors in it, and putting down all that he hears, may in time
collect the materials of a good narrative. You are to consider,
all history was at first oral. I suppose Voltaire was fifty years
in collecting his Louis XIV which he did in the way that I am
proposing.' ROBERTSON. 'He did so. He lived much with all the
great people who were concerned in that reign, and heard them
talk of every thing: and then either took Mr Boswell's way, of
writing down what he heard, or, which is as good, preserved it in
his memory; for he has a wonderful memory.' With the leave,
however, of this elegant historian, no man's memory can preserve
facts or sayings with such fidelity as may be done by writing
them down when they are recent. Dr Robertson said, 'it was now
full time to make such a collection as Dr Johnson suggested;
for many of the people who were then in arms, were dropping off;
and both Whigs and Jacobites were now come to talk with
moderation.' Lord Elibank said to him, 'Mr Robertson, the first
thing that gave me a high opinion of you, was your saying in
the Select Society, [Footnote: A society for debate in Edinburgh,
consisting of the most eminent men.] while parties ran high, soon
after the year 1745, that you did not think worse of a man's moral
character for his having been in rebellion.

This was venturing to utter a liberal sentiment, while both sides
had a detestation of each other.'
Dr Johnson observed, that being in rebellion from a notion
of another's right, was not connected with depravity; and that
we had this proof of it, that all mankind applauded the pardoning
of rebels; which they would not do in the case of robbers and
murderers. He said, with a smile, that 'he wondered that the
phrase of UNNATURAL rebellion should be so much used, for that
all rebellion was natural to man'.

As I kept no journal of any thing that passed after this morning,
I shall, from memory, group together this and the other days, till
that on which Dr Johnson departed for London. They were in all
nine days; on which he dined at Lady Colvill's, Lord Hailes's, Sir
Adolphus Oughton's, Sir Alexander Dick's, Principal Robertson's,
Mr McLaurin's, and thrice at Lord Elibank's seat in the country,
where we also passed two nights.

He supped at the Honourable Alexander Gordon's, now one of our
judges, by the title of Lord Rockville; at Mr Nairne's, now
also one of our judges, by the title of Lord Dunsinan; at Dr
Blair's, and Mr Tytler's; and at my house thrice, one evening
with a numerous company, chiefly gentlemen of the law; another
with Mr Menzies of Culdares, and Lord Monboddo, who disengaged
himself on purpose to meet him; and the evening on which we
returned from Lord Elibank's, he supped with my wife and me by
ourselves.

He breakfasted at Dr Webster's, at old Mr Drummond's, and at Dr
Blacklock's; and spent one forenoon at my uncle Dr Boswell's,
who shewed him his curious museum; and, as he was an elegant
scholar, and a physician bred in the school of Boerhaave, Dr
Johnson was pleased with his company.

On the mornings when he breakfasted at my house, he had,
from ten o'clock till one or two, a constant levee of various
persons, of very different characters and descriptions. I could
not attend him, being obliged to be in the Court of Session; but
my wife was so good as to devote the greater part of the
morning to the endless task of pouring out tea for my friend and
his visitors.

Such was the disposition of his time at Edinburgh. He said one
evening to me, in a fit of langour, 'Sir, we have been harrassed
by invitations.' I acquiesced. 'Ay, sir,' he replied; 'but how
much worse would it have been, if we had been neglected?'

From what has been recorded in this Journal, it may well be
supposed that a variety of admirable conversation has been lost,
by my neglect to preserve it. I shall endeavour to recollect
some of it, as well as I can.

At Lady Colvill's, to whom I am proud to introduce any stranger
of eminence, that he may see what dignity and grace is to be found
in Scotland, an officer observed, that he had heard Lord Mansfield
was not a great English lawyer.

JOHNSON. 'Why, sir, supposing Lord Mansfield not to have the
splendid talents which he possesses, he must be a great English
lawyer, from having been so long at the bar, and having passed
through so many of the great offices of the law. Sir, you may
as well maintain that a carrier, who has driven a packhorse
between Edinburgh and Berwick for thirty years, does not know the
road, as that Lord Mansfield does not know the law of
England.'

At Mr Nairne's, he drew the character of Richardson, the author
of Clarissa, with a strong yet delicate pencil. I lament much
that I have not preserved it: I only remember that he expressed a
high opinion of his talents and virtues; but observed, that 'his
perpetual study was to ward off petty inconveniencies, and
procure petty pleasures; that his love of continual superiority
was such, that he took care to be always surrounded by women,
who listened to him implicitly, and did not venture to controvert
his opinions; and that his desire of distinction was so great,
that he used to give large vails to the Speaker Onslow's servants,
that they might treat him with respect'.

On the same evening, he would not allow that the private life of
a judge, in England, was required to be so strictly decorous as
I supposed. 'Why then, sir,' said I, 'according to your
account, an English judge may just live like a gentleman.'

JOHNSON. 'Yes, sir--if he CAN.'
At Mr Tytler's, I happened to tell that one evening, a great many
years ago, when Dr Hugh Blair and I were sitting together in the
pit of Drury-lane play-house, in a wild freak of youthful
extravagance, I entertained the audience PRODIGIOUSLY, by imitating
the lowing of a cow.

A little while after I had told this story, I differed from
Dr Johnson, I suppose too confidently, upon some point, which I
now forget. He did not spare me. 'Nay, sir,' said he, 'if you
cannot talk better as a man, I'd have you bellow like a cow.'
[Footnote: As I have been scrupulously exact in relating anecdotes
concerning other persons, I shall not withhold any part of this
story, however ludicrous.--I was so successful in this
boyish frolick, that the universal cry of the galleries was,
'Encore the cow! Encore the cow!' In the pride of my heart, I
attempted imitations of some other animals, but with very inferior
effect. My reverend friend, anxious for my fame, with an air
of the utmost gravity and earnestness, addressed me thus: 'My dear
sir, I would CONFINE myself to the COW!']

At Dr Webster's, he said, that he believed hardly any man died
without affectation. This remark appears to me to be well
founded, and will account for many of the celebrated death-bed
sayings which are recorded.

On one of the evenings at my house, when he told that Lord Lovat
boasted to an English nobleman, that though he had not his
wealth, he had two thousand men whom he could at any
time call into the field, the Honourable Alexander Gordon observed,
that those two thousand men brought him to the block. 'True, sir,'
said Dr Johnson: 'but you may just as well argue, concerning a man
who has fallen over a precipice to which he has walked too near,
"His two legs brought him to that"--is he not the better for having
two legs?'

At Dr Blair's I left him, in order to attend a consultation, during
which he and his amiable host were by themselves. I returned
to supper, at which were Principal Robertson, Mr Nairne, and
some other gentlemen.

Dr Robertson and Dr Blair, I remember, talked well upon
subordination and government; and, as my friend and I were walking
home, he said to me, 'Sir, these two doctors are good
men, and wise men.' I begged of Dr Blair to recollect what he
could of the long conversation that passed between
Dr Johnson and him alone, this evening, and he obligingly
wrote to me as follows:

March 3, 1785.
Dear Sir,
... As so many years have intervened, since I chanced to have that
conversation with Dr Johnson in my house, to which you refer, I
have forgotten most of what then passed, but remember that I was
both instructed and entertained by it. Among other subjects, the
discourse happening to turn on modern Latin poets, the Dr expressed
a very favourable opinion of Buchanan, and instantly repeated, from
beginning to end, an ode of his, intituled Calendae Maiae (the
eleventh in his Miscellaneorum Liber), beginning with these words,
Salvete sacris deliciis sacrae, with which I had formerly been
unacquainted; but upon perusing it, the praise which he bestowed
upon it, as one of the happiest of Buchanan's poetical compositions,
appeared to me very just. He also repeated to me a Latin ode he had
composed in one of the western islands, from which he had lately
returned.Every police department knows these girls and boys, as does every
social service agency.

I am afraid we all yield to the desire to be interesting or to
make artistic our adventures. To tell of what happens to us, of
what we have seen or said or done exactly as it was, is
difficult, not only because of faulty memory, but because we like
to make the tale more like a story, because, let us say, of the
artist in us. Life is so incomplete and unfinished! We so rarely
retort as we should have! And a bald recital of most events is
not interesting and so,--the proportions are altered, humor is
introduced, the conversation becomes more witty, especially our
share, and the adventure is made a little more thrilling. And
each who tells of it adds little or much, and in the end what is
told never happened. "The Devil is the father of lies," runs the
old proverb. If so, we have all given birth to some of his
children.

Though direct lying is held to be harmful and socially
disastrous, and evidence of either fear and cowardice or
malevolence, the essential honesty of people is usually summed up
in the term sincerity. The advance of civilization is marked by
the appearance of toleration, the recognition that belief is a
private right, especially as concerns religion, and that
sincerity in belief is more important than the nature of belief.
What is really implied by sincerity is the absence of camouflage
or disguise, so that it becomes possible to know what a man
believes and thinks by his words and his acts. As a matter of
fact, that ideal is neither realized nor desirable, and it is as
wise and natural to inhibit the expression of our beliefs and
feelings as it is to inhibit our actions. To be frank with a man,
to tell him sincerely that we believe he is a scoundrel, and that
we hate him and to show this feeling by act, would be to plunge
the world into barbarism. We must disguise hate, and there are
times when we must disguise love. Sincerity is at the best only
relative; we ought to be sincere about love, religion and the
validity of our purposes, but in the little relationships
sincerity must be replaced by caution, courtesy and the needs of
efficiency. In reality we ask for sincerity only in what is
pleasant to us; the sincere whose frankness and honesty offend we
call boors.

Sincere self-revelation, if well done, is one of the most
esteemed forms of literary production. Montaigne's preface to his
"Essays" is a promise that he lived up to in the sincerity and
frankness of his self and other analysis. "Pepy's Diary" charms
because the naked soul of an Englishman of the seventeenth
century is laid before us, with its trivialities, lusts,
repentance and aspirations. In the latter nineteenth century,
Mary MacLane's diary had an extraordinary vogue because of the
apparent sincerity of the eager original nature there revealed.
We love young children because their selfishness, their
curiosity, their "real" nature, is shown to us in their every
word and act. In their presence we are relaxed, off our guard and
not forced to that eternal hiding and studying that the society
of our equals imposes on us.

We all long for sincerity, but the too sincere are treated much
as the skeptic of Bjoriasen's tale, who was killed by his
friends. As they stood around his body, one said to the other,
"There lies one who kicked us around like a football." The dead
man spoke, "Ah, yes, but I always kicked you to the goal." The
sincere of purpose must always keep his sincerity from wounding
too deeply; he must always be careful and include his own foibles
and failings in his attack, and he must make his efforts witty,
so that he may have the help of laughter. But here the danger is
that he will be listed as a pleasant comedian, and his serious
purpose will be balked by his reputation.

Sincerity, thus, is relative, and the insincere are those whose
purposes, declared by themselves to be altruistic, are none the
less egoistic, whose attachments and affections, loudly
protested, are not lasting and never intense, and whose manners
do not reflect what they themselves are but what they think will
be pleasing and acceptable to others. The relatively sincere seek
to make their outer behavior conform, within the possibilities,
to their inner natures; they are polite but not gushing, devoted
to their friends at heart and in deed, but not too friendly to
their enemies or to those they dislike, and they believe in their
own purposes as good. The unhappiest state possible is when one
starts to question the sincerity and validity of one's own
purposes, from which there results an agonizing paralysis of
purpose. The sincere inspire with faith and cooperation, if there
is a unity of interest, but it must not be forgotten that others
are inspired to hatred and rivalry, if the sincerity is along
antagonistic lines. We are apt to forget that sincerity, like
love, faith and hope, is a beautiful word, but the quality of
sincerity, like the other qualities, may be linked with misguided
purpose. No one doubts the sincerity of the Moslem hordes of the
eighth century in desiring to redeem the world for Mahomet, but
we are quite as sincerely glad that sturdy Charles Martel smashed
them back from Europe. Their very sincerity made them the more
dangerous. In estimating any one's sincerity, it is indispensable
to inquire with what other qualities is this sincerity
linked,--to what nouns of activity is it a qualifying adjective?

Honesty, truthfulness and sincerity are esteemed because there is
in our social structure the great need that men shall trust one
another. The cynic and the worldly wise, and also the experiences
of life, teach "never trust, always be cautious, never confide in
letter or speech," curb the trusting urge in our nature. The
betrayal of trust is the one sin; all other crimes from murder
down may find an excuse in passion or weakness, but when the
trusting are deceived or injured, the cement substance of our
social structure is dissolved and the fabric of our lives
threatened. To trust is to hand over one's destiny to another and
is a manifestation of the mutual dependence of man. It is in part
a judgment of character, it is in part an original trait, is an
absence of that form of fear called suspicion and on its positive
side is a form of courage.

Since it is in part a judgment of character in the most of us, it
tends to grow less prominent as we grow older. The young child is
either very trusting or entirely suspicious, and when his
suspicions are overcome by acquaintance and simple bribes, he
yields his fortunes to any one. (It is a pleasant fiction that
children and dogs know whom to trust, by an intuition.) But as
life proceeds, the most of us find that our judgment of character
is poor, and we hesitate to pin anything momentous on it. Only
where passion blinds us, as in sex love, or when our self-love
and lust for quick gain[1] or hate has been aroused do we lose
the caution that is the antithesis of trust. The expert in human
relations is he who can overcome distrust; the genius in human
relations is he who inspires trust.

For the psychopathologist an enormous interest centers in a group
of people whom we may call paranoic. In his mildest form the
paranoic is that very common "misunderstood" person who distrusts
the attitude and actions of his neighbors, who believes himself
to be injured purposely by every unintentional slight, or rather
who finds insult and injury where others see only forgetfulness
or inattention. Of an inordinate and growing ego, the paranoic of
a pathological trend develops the idea or delusion of
persecution. From the feeling that everything and every one is
against him, he builds up, when some major purpose becomes
balked, a specific belief that so and so or this or "that group
is after me." "They are trying to injure or kill me" because they
are jealous or have some antagonistic purpose. Here we find the
half-baked inventor, whose "inventions" have been turned down for
the very good reason that they are of no value, and who concludes


[1] All the great swindlers show how the lust for gain plus the
wiles of the swindler overcome the caution and suspicion of the
"hard-headed," The Ponzi case is the latest contribution to the
subject.

that some big corporations are in league with the Patent Office
to prevent him from competing with them; here we have the
"would-be" artist or singer or writer whose efforts are not
appreciated, largely because they are foolish, but who believes
that the really successful (and he often names them) hate and
fear him, or that the Catholics are after him, or perhaps the
Jews or the Masons.

In its extreme form the paranoic is rare just as is the extremely
trusting person of saintly type. But in minor form every group
and every institution has its paranoic, hostile, suspicious,
"touchy," quick to believe something is being put over on him and
quick to attribute his failure to others. In that last is a
cardinal point in the compass of character. Some attribute their
failure to others, and some in their self-analysis find the root
of their difficulties and failures in themselves.

Under the feeling of injustice a paranoid trend is easily aroused
in all of us, and we may misinterpret the whole world when
laboring under that feeling, just as we may, if we are correct,
see the social organization very clearly as a result. Therein is
the danger of any injustice and seeming injustice, As a result
condemnation is extreme, wrongly directed and with little
constructive value. We become paranoid, see wrong where there is
none and enemies in those who are friendly.

The over-trusting, over-confidential are the virtuous in excess,
and their damage is usually localized to themselves or their
families. They tell their secrets to any one who politely
expresses an interest, they will hand over their fortunes to the
flattering stranger, to the smooth-tongued. Sometimes they are
merely unworldly, absorbed in unworldly projects, but more often
they are merely trusting fools.

Man the weak, struggling in a world whose forces are pitiless,
whose fairest face hides grim disaster, has sought to find some
one, some force, he might unfailingly trust. He raises his hands
to heaven; he cries, "There is One I can trust. Though He smite
me I shall have faith."


CHAPTER XIV. SEX CHARACTERS AND DOMESTICITY

Originally reproduction is a part of the function of all
protoplasm; and in the primitive life-forms an individual becomes
two by the "simple process" of dividing itself into halves. Had
this method continued into the higher forms most of the trouble
as well as most of the pleasure of human existence would never
occur. Or had the hermaphrodite method of combining two sexes in
the one individual, so frequent in the plant world, found its way
into the higher animals, the moral struggles of man would have
become simplified into that resulting from his, struggles with
similar creatures. Literature would not flourish, the drama would
never have been heard of, dancing and singing would not need the
attention of the uplifter, dress would be a method of keeping
warm, and life would be sane enough but without the delicious
joys of sex-love.

Why are there two sexes?[1] I must refer the reader to the
specialists in this matter, but can assure him that no one knows.
With the rise of Mandel's theory of heredity, it has been assumed
that such a scheme offers a wider variety of possible character
combinations. At present it is safe to say that no one can give a
valid reason for the existence of male and female, and that while
this elaboration of the reproducing individual into two parts may
be necessary for some purpose, at first glance it appears like an
interesting but mysterious complication.

[1] See Lloyd Morgan's book on sex.


I refer the reader to textbooks in anatomy and embryology, and to
the specialists on sex like Krafft-Ebbing, Havelock Ellis and
Ploss for details as to the differences between man and woman.
There are first the essential organs of generation, differing in
the two sexes, the ovary furnishing the egg, the testes
furnishing the seed or sperm; then the organs of sexual contact;
the secondary sex characteristics, such as stature, distribution
of hair, deposits of fat, shape of body and especially of the
pelvis, the voice, smoothness of skin, muscular development, etc.
There is an orderly evolution in the development of sex
characters which starts with earliest embryo life and goes on
regularly until puberty, when there is an extraordinary
development of latent characters and peculiarities. After puberty
maturity is reached by easy stages, and then comes involution or
the recession of sex characters. This is reached in woman rather
suddenly and in man more gradually. The completely differentiated
man differs from his completely differentiated mate in the
texture of his hair, skin, nails; in the width and mobility of
pupils, in the color of his sclera, etc., as well as in the more
essential sex organs.

Indeed there are very essential bodily differences that are
obviously important though not well understood. One is that the
bodily temperature of man is slightly higher than that of woman,
and that he has five million red blood corpuscles to every cubic
millimeter of his blood, while she has four and a half million;
that his brain weighs considerably more but is not heavier
proportionately; that her bodily proportions resemble those of
the child-form[1] more than do his, which some interpret as a
point of superiority for her, while others interpret it as a sign
of inferiority. On the whole, the authorities consider that man
is made for the discharge of energy at a high rate for a short
time, he is the katabolic element, while woman stores up energy
for her children and represents the anabolic element of the race.

[1] See Havelock Ellis.


As a corollary to the above, it is necessary to know that each
human being (and also each higher animal) starts out with the
potential sex organs of both sexes, and that each individual
becomes sexually differentiated at about the eleventh week of
intra-uterine life. Moreover every male has female organs, and
every female has male organs, though in the normal conditions
these are mere vestiges and play no part in the sex life of the
person. Yet this indicates that the separation of male and female
is not absolute, and logically and actually a male may have
female characters, physically and mentally, and vice versa a
female may resemble the male in structure and character.

The sex relations have in the racial sense reproduction as their
object, but it is wise to remember that in the whole living world
only man knows this, and he has known it for only a relatively
short time. Furthermore, in youth, when the sexual life is at its
intensest, this fact, though known, is not really realized, and
in the individual's plans and desires parenthood figures only
incidentally, if at all. Society, in its organization, places its
emphasis on child-bearing, and so indirectly reproduction becomes
a great social aim rather than an individual purpose.

1. The feeling of parenthood is, as every one knows, far stronger
in woman than in man. But here again generalizations are of no
use to us, since there are women who develop only a weak maternal
feeling, while there are men whose intensity of response to
children is almost as great as any woman's. Undoubtedly
occupation in other than the traditional woman's field is
weakening the maternal feeling or is at least competing with it
in a way that divides the modern mother's emotions and purposes
and is largely responsible for her restless nervousness. This I
think may safely be stated: that industry, athleticism,
education, late marriage, etc., are not making for better
physical motherhood.[1] On the contrary, the modern woman has a
harder time in bearing her children, and worst of all she is
showing either a reluctance or an inability to nurse them. Small
families are becoming the rule, especially among the better to
do. On the other hand, the history of the home is the gradual
domestication of the man, his greater devotion to the children
and to his wife. The increase in divorce has its roots in social
issues too big to be discussed with profit here, but perhaps the
principal item is the emancipation of woman who is now freer to
decline unsatisfactory relations with her mate.

[1] "The Nervous Housewife."


2. The sex passion, as a direct feeling, is undoubtedly stronger
in the male, as it is biologically necessary it should be, since
upon him devolves the active part in the sex relationship.[2] The
sexologists point out two types of sex feeling, one of which is
supposed to be typically male, the other typically female.

[2] See Havelock Ellis, Krafft-Ebbing, Freud.


The male feeling is called sadism, after an infamous nobleman who
wrote on the subject. It is a delight in power, especially in
cruelty, and shows itself in a desire for the subjection of the
female. In its pathological forms it substitutes cruelty for the
sexual relation, and we have thus the horrible Jack the Rippers,
etc. His daughter, a very pleasing young lady, made breakfast.
Dr Watson observed, that Glasgow University had fewer home-students,
since trade increased, as learning was rather incompatible with
it.
JOHNSON. 'Why, sir, as trade is now carried on by subordinate
hands, men in trade have as much leisure as others; and now
learning itself is a trade.

A man goes to a bookseller, and gets what he can. We have done
with patronage. In the infancy of learning, we find some great
man praised for it. This diffused it among others. When it
becomes general, an author leaves the great, and applies to the
multitude.' BOSWELL. 'It is a shame that authors are not now better
patronized.' JOHNSON. 'No, sir. If learning cannot support a man,
if he must sit with his hands across till somebody feeds him,
it is as to him a bad thing, and it is better as it is.

With patronage, what flattery! What falsehood! While a man is
in equilibria, he throws truth among the multitude, and lets them
take it as they please: in patronage, he must say what pleases
his patron, and it is an equal chance whether that be truth or
falsehood.' WATSON. 'But is not the case now, that, instead
of flattering one person, we flatter the age?' JOHNSON. 'No,
sir. The world always lets a man tell what he thinks, his own
way. I wonder however, that so many people have written,
who might have let it alone. That people should endeavour to
excel in conversation, I do not wonder; because in conversation
praise is instantly reverberated.'
We talked of change of manners. Dr Johnson observed, that our
drinking less than our ancestors was owing to the change from ale
to wine. 'I remember,' said he, 'when all the DECENT
people in Lichfield got drunk every night, and were not the worse
thought of. Ale was cheap, so you pressed strongly. When
a man must bring a bottle of wine, he is not in such haste.
Smoking has gone out. To be sure, it is a shocking thing, blowing
smoke out of our mouths into other people's mouths, eyes, and
noses, and having the same thing done to us. Yet I cannot account,
why a thing which requires so little exertion, and yet preserves
the mind from total vacuity, should have gone out. Every man has
something by which he calms himself: beating with his feet, or so.
[Footnote: Dr Johnson used to practice this himself very much.]
I remember when people in England changed a shirt only once a
week: a Pandour, when he gets a shirt, greases it to make
it last. Formerly, good tradesmen had no fire but in the kitchen;
never in the parlour, except on Sunday. My father, who was a
magistrate of Lichfield, lived thus. They never began to have a
fire in the parlour, but on leaving off business, or some great
revolution of their life.'

Dr Watson said, the hall was as a kitchen, in old squires'
houses. JOHNSON. 'No, sir. The hall was for great occasions, and
never was used for domestick reflection.' We talked of the Union,
and what money it had brought into Scotland. Dr Watson observed,
that a little money formerly went as far as a great deal
now. JOHNSON. 'In speculation, it seems that a smaller quantity
of money, equal in value to a larger quantity, if equally divided,
should produce the same effect. But it is not so in reality. Many
more conveniences and elegancies are enjoyed where money is
plentiful, than where it is scarce. Perhaps a great familiarity
with it, which arises from plenty, makes us more easily
part with it.'
After what Dr Johnson had said of St Andrews, which he had long
wished to see, as our oldest university, and the seat of our
Primate in the days of episcopacy, I can say little.

Since the publication of Dr Johnson's book, I find that he has
been censured for not seeing here the ancient chapel of St
Rule, a curious piece of sacred architecture.
But this was neither his fault nor mine. We were both of us
abundantly desirous of surveying such sort of antiquities: but
neither of us knew of this.

I am afraid the censure must fall on those who did not tell us of
it. In every place, where there is any thing worthy of observation,
there should be a short printed directory for strangers, such
as we find in all the towns of Italy, and in some of the towns
in England. I was told that there is a manuscript account of
St Andrews, by Martin, secretary to Archbishop Sharp; and that
one Douglas has published a small account of it. I inquired
at a bookseller's, but could not get it. Dr Johnson's veneration
for the Hierarchy is well known. There is no wonder then,
that he was affected with a strong indignation, while he beheld
the ruins of religious magnificence.

I happened to ask where John Knox was buried. Dr Johnson
burst out, 'I hope in the high-way. I have been looking at his
reformations.'
It was a very fine day. Dr Johnson seemed quite wrapt up in the
contemplation of the scenes which were now presented to him. He
kept his hat off while he was upon any part of the ground
where the cathedral had stood. He said well, that 'Knox had set
on a mob, without knowing where it would end; and that differing
from a man in doctrine was no reason why you should pull his house
about his ears'.
As we walked in the cloisters, there was a solemn echo, while he
talked loudly of a proper retirement from the world. Mr Nairne
said, he had an inclination to retire. I called Dr Johnson's
attention to this, that I might hear his opinion if it was right.
JOHNSON. 'Yes, when he has done his duty to society. In general,
as every man is obliged not only to "love God, but his neighbour
as himself", he must bear his part in active life; yet there are
exceptions. Those who are exceedingly scrupulous (which I do not
approve, for I am no friend to scruples), and find their scrupulosity
invincible, so that they are quite in the dark, and know not what
they shall do, or those who can not resist temptations, and find
they make themselves worse by being in the world, without making
it better, may retire.

I never read of a hermit, but in imagination I kiss his feet;
never of a monastery, but I could fall on my knees, and
kiss the pavement. But I think putting young people there, who
know nothing of life, nothing of retirement, is dangerous
and wicked. It is a saying as old as Hesiod,
[words in Greek] [Footnote: Let youth in deeds, in counsel
man engage; Prayer is the proper duty of old age. ]
That is a very noble line: not that young men should not pray,
or old men not give counsel, but that every season of
life has its proper duties. I have thought of retiring, and have
talked of it to a friend; but I find my vocation is rather to
active life.' I said, SOME young monks might be allowed, to
shew that it is not age alone that can retire to pious solitude;
but he thought this would only shew that they could not resist
temptation.

He wanted to mount the steeples, but it could not be done. There
are no good inscriptions here.

Bad Roman characters he naturally mistook for half Gothick,
half Roman. One of the steeples, which he was told was in danger,
he wished not to be taken down; 'for,' said he, 'it may fall on
some of the posterity of John Knox; and no great matter!'

Dinner was mentioned. JOHNSON. 'Ay, ay; amidst all these sorrowful
scenes, I have no objection to dinner.'
We went and looked at the castle, where Cardinal Beaton was murdered,
and then visited Principal Murison at his college, where is a
good library-room; but the principal was abundantly vain of it,
for he seriously said to Dr Johnson, 'you have not such a one in
England'.

The professors entertained us with a very good dinner.
Present:
Murison, Shaw, Cooke, Hill, Haddo, Watson, Flint, Brown. I
observed, that I wondered to see him eat so well, after viewing
so many sorrowful scenes of ruined religious magnificence. 'Why,'
said he, 'I am not sorry, after seeing these gentlemen; for they
are not sorry.' Murison said, all sorrow was bad, as it was
murmuring against the dispensations of Providence. JOHNSON. 'Sir,
sorrow is inherent in humanity. As you cannot judge two and
two to be either five, or three, but certainly four,
so, when comparing a worse present state with a better which is
past, you cannot but feel sorrow. It is not cured by reason, but
by the incursion of present objects, which wear out the past.
You need not murmur, though you are sorry.' MURISON.
'But St Paul says, "I have learnt, in whatever state I am, therewith
to be content." 'JOHNSON.

'Sir, that relates to riches and poverty; for we see St Paul, when
he had a thorn in the flesh, prayed earnestly to have it removed;
and then he could not be content.' Murison, thus refuted, tried
to be smart, and drank to Dr Johnson, 'Long may you lecture!'
Dr Johnson afterwards, speaking of his not drinking wine, said,
'The Doctor spoke of lecturing' (looking to him). 'I give all
these lectures on water.'
He defended requiring subscription in those admitted to
universities, thus: 'As all who come into the country must
obey the King, so all who come into an university must be
of the Church.'
And here I must do Dr Johnson the justice to contradict a
very absurd and ill-natured story, as to what passed
at St Andrews. It has been circulated, that, after grace was said
in English, in the usual manner, he with the greatest marks
of contempt, as if he had held it to be no grace in an university,
would not sit down till he had said grace aloud in Latin. This
would have been an insult indeed to the gentlemen who were
entertaining us. But the truth was precisely thus.
In the course of conversation at dinner, Dr Johnson, in very
good humour, said, 'I should have expected to have heard a Latin
grace, among so many learned men: we had always a Latin grace at
Oxford.

I believe I can repeat it.' Which he did, as giving the learned
men in one place a specimen of what was done by the learned men
in another place.

We went and saw the church, in which is Archbishop Sharp's monument.
I was struck with the same kind of feelings with which the churches
of Italy impressed me.

I was much pleased, to see Dr Johnson actually in St Andrews,
of which we had talked so long. Professor Haddo was with us
this afternoon, along with Dr Watson. We looked at St
Salvador's College. The rooms for students seemed very commodious,
and Dr Johnson said, the chapel was the neatest place of worship
he had seen. The key of the library could not be found; for
it seems Professor Hill, who was out of town, had taken it with
him. Dr Johnson told a joke he had heard of a monastery abroad,
where the key of the library could never be found.

It was somewhat dispiriting, to see this ancient archiepiscopal
city now sadly deserted.

We saw in one of its streets a remarkable proof of liberal
toleration; a nonjuring clergyman, strutting about in his
canonicals, with a jolly countenance and a round belly, like a
well-fed monk.

We observed two occupations united in the same person, who had
hung out two sign-posts. Upon one was, JAMES HOOD, WHITE IRON
SMITH (i.e.
tin-plate worker). Upon another, THE ART OF FENCING TAUGHT, BY
JAMES HOOD. Upon this last were painted some trees, and
two men fencing, one of whom had hit the other in the eye,
to shew his great dexterity; so that the art was well
taught. JOHNSON. 'Were I studying here, I should go and take a
lesson.

I remember Hope, in his book on this art, says, "the Scotch
are very good fencers".'

We returned to the inn, where we had been entertained at dinner,
and drank tea in company with some of the professors, of whose
civilities I beg leave to add my humble and very grateful
acknowledgement to the honourable testimony of Dr Johnson, in his
Journey.

We talked of composition, which was a favourite topick of Dr
Watson's, who first distinguished himself by lectures on rhetorick.
JOHNSON. 'I advised Chambers, and would advise every young man
beginning to compose, to do it as fast as he can, to get a habit
of having his mind to start promptly; it is so much more difficult
to improve in speed than in accuracy.'

WATSON. 'I own I am for much attention to accuracy in composing,
lest one should get bad habits of doing it in a slovenly manner.'
JOHNSON. 'Why, sir, you are confounding DOING inaccurately
with the NECESSITY of doing inaccurately. A man knows when his
composition is inaccurate, and when he thinks fit he'll correct
it.
But, if a man is accustomed to compose slowly, and with difficulty,
upon all occasions, there is danger that he may not compose at
all, as we do not like to do that which is not done easily; and,
at any rate, more time is consumed in a small matter than ought to
be.'

WATSON. 'Dr Hugh Blair has taken a week to compose a sermon.'
JOHNSON. 'Then, sir, that is for want of the habit of composing
quickly, which I am insisting one should acquire.' WATSON.
'Blair was not composing all the week, but only such hours as he
found himself disposed for composition.' JOHNSON. 'Nay,
sir, unless you tell me the time he took, you tell me nothing.
If I say I took a week to walk a mile, and have had
the gout five days, and been ill otherwise another day, I have
taken but one day. I myself have composed about forty sermons.
I have begun a sermon after dinner, and sent it off by the post
that night.

I wrote forty-eight of the printed octavo pages of the life of
Savage at a sitting; but then I sat up all night. I have
also written six sheets in a day of translation from the
French.' BOSWELL. 'We have all observed how one man dresses
himself slowly, and another fast.' JOHNSON. 'Yes, sir; it
is wonderful how much time some people will consume in dressing;
taking up a thing and looking at it, and laying it down, and taking
it up again.

Every one should get the habit of doing it quickly. I would
say to a young divine, "Here is your text; let me see how soon
you can make a sermon." Then I'd say, "Let me see how much better
you can make it." Thus I should see both his powers and his
judgement.'
We all went to Dr Watson's to supper. Miss Sharp,
great grandchild of Archbishop Sharp, was there; as was Mr Craig,
the ingenious architect of the new town of Edinburgh, and nephew
of Thomson, to whom Dr Johnson has since done so much justice, in
his Lives of the Poets.

We talked of memory, and its various modes. JOHNSON.
'Memory will play strange tricks. One sometimes loses a
single word. I once lost fugaces in the Ode Posthume,
Posthume. I mentioned to him, that a worthy gentleman of my
acquaintance actually forgot his own name. JOHNSON.
'Sir. that was a morbid oblivion.'

Friday, 2Oth August
Dr Shaw, the professor of divinity, breakfasted with us. I took
out my Ogden On Prayer, and read some of it to the company.

Dr Johnson praised him. 'Abernethy,' said he, 'allows only
of a physical effect of prayer upon the mind, which may be
produced many ways, as well as by prayer; for instance, by
meditation. Ogden goes farther. In truth, we have the consent of
all nations for the efficacy of prayer, whether offered up
by individuals, or by assemblies; and Revelation has told us,
it will be effectual.' I said, 'Leechman seemed to incline to
Abernethy's doctrine.' Dr Watson observed, that Leechman
meant to shew, that, even admitting no effect to be produced by
prayer, respecting the Deity, it was useful to our own minds.
He had given only a part of his system: Dr Johnson thought he
should have given the whole.

Dr Johnson enforced the strict observance of Sunday. 'It should
be different,' he observed, 'from another day. People may walk,
but not throw stones at birds. There may be relaxation, but there
should be no levity.'
We went and saw Colonel Nairne's garden and grotto. Here was a
fine old plane tree. Unluckily the colonel said, there was but
this and another large tree in the county. This assertion was an
excellent cue for Dr Johnson, who laughed enormously, calling to
me to hear it. He had expatiated to me on the nakedness of that
part of Scotland which he had seen. His Journey has been violently
abused, for what he has said upon this subject.There are the under-inhibited, spoken of above, and
there are the over-inhibited, Puritanical, rebelling at the flesh
as such, disguising all their emotions, reluctant to admit their
humanness and the validity of pleasure.


The romantic ideal, glorifying a sort of asexual love of perfect
men and women, asceticism which permits sex only as a sort of
necessary evil and sensuality which proclaims the pleasure of sex
as the only joy and scoffs at inhibition influence the lives of
us all. The effect of the forbidden, the tantalizing curiosity
aroused and the longing to rise above the level of lust make the
sex adjustment the most difficult of all and produce the queerest
results. Sex is a road to power and to failure, a road to health
and sickness. As in all adjustments, there are some who are
conscious of but few difficulties, who are moral or immoral
without struggle or discontent. Contrasted with these are the
ones who find morality a great burden, and those who, yielding to
desire, find continuous inner conflict and dissatisfaction and
lowered self-valuation as a result.

Our society is organized on chastity and continence prior to
marriage, purity and constancy after marriage. That noble ideal
has never been realized; the stories of Pagan times, of the
Middle Ages and of the present day, as well as everyday human
experience, show that the male certainly has not lived up to his
part of the bargain. Legalized prostitution in most countries,
illegal prostitution in the United States and England, in
addition to the enormous amount of clandestine relationships, are
a sufficient commentary on the results. The increasing divorce
rate, the feminist movement, the legalizing of the "illegitimate"
child in Norway and Sweden and the almost certain arrival of
similar laws in all countries indicate a softer attitude toward
sex restrictions. The rapidly increasing age of marriage means
simply that continence will be more and more difficult, for I am
not one of those who believe that the repression of this vital
instinct is without harm. Continence is socially necessary, but
beyond a certain age it is physically and mentally harmful. Man
is thus placed on the horns of a dilemma from which it will take
the greatest wisdom and the finest humanity to extricate him. But
I cannot lay claim to any part of the knowledge and ability
necessary to formulate the plan. Let us at least be candid; let
us not say grandiloquently that the sexual urge can be
indefinitely repressed without harm to the average individual. We
may safely assert that there are people, men and women both, to
whom the sex impulses are vague and of little force, but to the
great majority, at least of men, sex desire is almost a hunger,
and unsatisfied it brings about a restlessness and
dissatisfaction that enters into all the mental life. On what
basis society will meet this situation I do not pretend to know,
but this is certain,--that all over the civilized world there is
apparent an organizing rebellion against the social impediment to
sexual satisfaction.

For it must be remembered that sexual satisfaction is not alone
naked desire. It is that--but sublimated into finer things as
well. It is the desire for stability of affection, for a
sympathetic beloved, an outlet for emotion, a longing for
respectable unitary status. The unit of respectable human life is
the married couple; the girl wants that social recognition, and
so does her man. Both yearn to cast off from their old homes and
start a new one, as an initial step in successful living. The
thought of children--a little form in a little bed, and the man
and woman gazing in an ecstasy of pride and affection upon
it--makes all other pleasures seem unworthy and gives to the ache
for intimacy a high moral sanction.

This brings us to the point where we must consider those
characteristics that make up domesticity and homekeeping. Early
impressions and the consistent teaching of literature, stage,
press and religion have given to the home a semi-sacred
character, which is one of the great components of the desire to
marry, especially for women. The home is, in the minds of most of
those who enter into marriage, a place owned, peculiarly
possessed, and it offers freedom from the restraints of society
and the inhibitions of ceremony and custom. Both the man and
woman like to think that here is the place where their love can
find free expression, where she will care for him and he will
provide for her, and where their children can grow in beauty,
intelligence and moral worth under their guidance. But this is
only the sentimental side of their thought, the part they give
freest expression to because it is most respectable and "nice."
In the background of their minds is the desire for ownership, the
wish to say, "This is mine and here I rule." Into that comes the
ideal that the stability of society is involved and the
homekeeper is its most important citizen, but when we study the
real evolution of the home, study the laws pertaining to the
family, we find that the husband and father had a little kingdom
with wife and children as subjects, and that only gradually has
there come from that monarchical idea the more democratic
conception cherished to-day.

Men and women may be considered as domestic or non-domestic. The
domestic type of man is ordinarily "steady" in purpose and
absorbed more in work than in the seeking of pleasure, is either
strongly inhibited sexually or else rather easily satisfied;
cherishes the ideal of respectability highly; is conventional and
habituated, usually has a strong property feeling and is apt to
have a decided paternal feeling. He may of course be seclusive
and apt to feel the constraints of contact with others as
wearying and unsatisfactory; he is not easily bored or made
restless. All this is a broad sketch; even the most domestic find
in the home a certain amount of tyranny and monotony; they yearn
now and then for adventure and new romance and think of the
freedom of their bachelor days with regret over their passing.
They may decide that married home life is best, but the choice is
not without difficulty and is accompanied by an irrepressible,
though hidden dissatisfaction. On the whole, however, the
domestic man finds the home a haven of relief and a source of
pleasurable feeling.

The non-domestic man may be of a dozen types. Perhaps he is
incurably romantic and hates the thought of settling down and
putting away for good the search for the perfect woman. Perhaps
he is uninhibted sexually or over-excitable in this respect, and
is therefore restless and unfaithful. He may be bored by
monotony, a restless seeker of new experiences and new work,
possessed by the devils of wanderlust. He may be an egoist
incapable of the continuous self-sacrifice and self-abnegation
demanded by the home,--quarrelsome and selfish. Sometimes he is
wedded to an ideal of achievement or work and believes that he
travels best who travels alone. Often in these days of late
marriage he has waited until he could "afford" to marry and then
finds that his habits chain him to single life. Or he may be an
unconventional non-believer in the home and marriage, though
these are really rare. The drinker, the roue, the wanderer, the
selfish, the nonconventional, the soarer, the restless, the
inefficient and the misogynist all make poor husbands and fathers
and find the home a burden too crippling to be borne.

One of the outstanding figures of the past is the domestic woman,
yearning for a home, assiduously and constantly devoted to it,
her husband and her numerous children. Fancy likes to linger on
this old-fashioned housewife, arising in the early morning and
from that time until her bedtime content to bake, cook, wash,
dust, clean, sew, nurse and teach; imagining no other career
possible or proper for her sex; leading a life of self-
sacrifice, toil and devotion. Poet, novelist, artist, and
clergyman have immortalized her, and men for the most part
cherish this type as their mother and dream of it as the ideal
wife.

Perhaps (and probably) this woman rebelled in her heart against
her drudgery and dreamed of better things; perhaps she regretted
the quickly past youth and dreaded the frequent child-bearing.
Whether she did or not, the appearance of a strongly non-domestic
type is part of the history of the latter nineteenth century and
the early twentieth.

The non-domestic women are, like their male prototypes, of many
kinds, and it would be idle to enumerate them. There is the kind
of woman that "has a career," using this term neither
sarcastically nor flatteringly. The successful artist of whatever
sort--painter, musician, actress--has usually been quite spoiled
for domesticity by the reward of money and adulation given her.
Nowhere is the lack of proportion of our society so well
demonstrated as in the hysterical praise given to this kind of
woman, and naturally she cannot consent to the subordination and
seclusion of the home. Then there is the young business woman,
efficient, independent, proud of her place in the bustle and stir
of trade. She is quite willing to marry and often makes an
admirable mother and wife, but sometimes she finds the menial
character of housework, its monotony and dependence too much for
her. The feminist aglow with equality and imbued with too vivid a
feeling of sex antagonism may marry and bear children, but she
rarely becomes a fireside companion of the type the average man
idealizes. Then the vain, the frivolous, the sexually
uncontrolled,--these too make poor choice for him who has set his
heart on a wife who will cook his meals, darn his stockings and
care for the children. To be non-domestic is a privilege or a
right we cannot deny to women, nor is there condemnation in the
term,--it is merely a summary characterization.

Though to remain single is to be freer than to be married and
domestic, yet the race will always have far more domestic
characters. These alone will bear children, and from them the
racial characters will flow rather than from the exceptional and
deviate types, unless the home disappears in the form of some
other method of raising children. After all, the home is a
costly, inefficient method of family life unless it has
advantages for childhood. This it decidedly has, though we have
bad homes aplenty and foolish ones galore. Yet there is for the
child a care, and more important, an immersion in love and tender
feeling, possible in no other way. We should lose the sacred
principles of motherhood and fatherhood, the only example of
consistent and unrewarded love, if the home disappeared. The only
real altruism of any continuous and widespread type is there
found. It is the promise and the possibility of our race that we
see in the living parents. We know that unselfishness exists when
we think of them, and the idealist who dreams of a world set free
from greed and struggle merely enlarges the ideal home.

But we must be realistic, as well as idealistic. A silent or
noisy struggle goes on in the home between the old and the new,
between a rising and a receding generation. An orthodox old
generation looks askance on an heretical new generation; parents
who believe that to play cards or go to theater is the way of
Satan find their children leaving home to do these very things.
Everywhere mothers wonder why daughters like short skirts, powder
and perhaps rouge, when they were brought up on the corset,
crinoline and the bustle; and they rebel against the indictment
passed out broadcast by their children. "You are old-fashioned;
this is the year 1921." When children grow up, their wills clash
with their parents', even in the sweetest, and most loving of
homes. Behind many a girl's anxiety to marry is the desire for
the unobstructed exercise of her will. Parents too often seek in
their children a continuation of their own peculiarities, their
own characters and ideals, forgetting that the continuity of the
generations is true only in a biological sense, but in no other
way. And children grown to strength, power and intelligence think
that each person must seek his experiences himself and forget
that true wisdom lies in what is accepted by all the generations.

Just as we have the types of husbands and the types of wives, so
we judge men and women by the wisdom, dignity and faithfulness of
their parenthood; so we judge them by the kind of children they
are to their parents. In this last we have a point in character
of great importance and one upon which the followers of Freud
have laid much--over-much--stress.

The effect of too affectionate a home training, too assertive
parenthood, is to dwarf the individuality of the child and make
him a sort of parasite, out of contact with his contemporaries,
seclusive and odd. There is a certain brand of goody-goody boy,
brought up tied to his mother's apron strings, who has lost the
essential capacities of mixing with varied types of boys and
girls, who is sensitive, shy and retiring, or who is naively
boorish and unschooled in tact. According to some psychiatrists
this kind of training breeds the mental disease known as Dementia
Praecox, but I seriously doubt it. One often finds that the
goody-goody boy of fifteen becomes the college fullback at
twenty,--that is, once thrown on the world, the really normal get
back their birthright of character. I think it likely that now
and then a feeling of inferiority is bred in this way, a feeling
that may cling and change the current of a boy's life. The real
danger of too close a family life, in whatever way it manifests
itself, is that it cuts into real social life, narrows the field
of influences and sympathies, breeds a type of personality of
perhaps good morals but of poor humanity.

The home must never lose its contact with the world; it should
never be regarded as the real world for which a man works. It is
a place to rest in, to eat in, to work in; in it is the spirit of
family life, redolent of affection, mutual aid and
self-sacrifice; but more than these, it is the nodal point of
affections, concerns and activity which radiate from it to the
rest of the world.


CHAPTER XV. PLAY, RECREATION, HUMOR AND PLEASURE SEEKING

One of the great difficulties in thought is that often the same
word expresses quite different concepts. Some superficial
resemblance has taken possession of the mind and expressed itself
in a unifying word, disregarding the fundamental differences.

Take the word "play." The play of childhood is indeed a
pleasurable activity to the child, but it is really his form of
grappling with life, a serious pursuit of knowledge and a form of
preparation for his adult activities. It is not a way of
relaxation; on the contrary, in play he organizes his activities,
shuffles and reshuffles his ideas and experiences, looking for
the new combinations we call "imaginations." The kitten in its
play prepares to catch its prey later on; and the child digging
in a ditch and making believe "this is a house" and "this is a
river" is a symbol of Man the mighty changing the face of Nature.
The running and catching games like "Tag" and "I spy," "Hide and
go seek," "Rellevo" are really war games, with training in
endurance, agility, cool-headedness, cooperation and rivalry as
their goals. Only as the child grows older, and there is placed
on him the burden of school work, does play commence to change
its serious nature and partake of the frivolous character of
adult life.

For the play of adult life is an effort to find pleasure and
relaxation in the dropping of serious purposes, in the
"forgetting" of cares and worries, by indulging in excitement
which has no fundamental purpose. The pleasure of play for the
adult is in the release of trends from inhibition, exactly as we
may imagine that a harnessed horse, pulling at a load and with
his head held back by a check-rein, might feel if he were turned
loose in a meadow. This is the kind of play spirit manifested in
going out fishing, dressed in old clothes, with men who will not
care whatever is said or done. There is purpose, there is
competition and cooperation and fellowship, but the organization
is a loose one and does not bear heavily. So, too, with the
pleasure of a game of ball for the amateur who plays now and
then. There is organization, control and competition; but unless
one is a poor loser, there is a relaxed tension in that the
purpose is not vital, and one can shout, jump up and down and
express himself in uninhibited excitement. Whether this
excitement has a value in discharging other excitement and
feelings that are inhibited in the daily work is another matter;
if it has such a value, play becomes of necessary importance. In
outdoor games in general, the feeling of physical fitness, of
discharging energy along primordial lines and the happy feeling
that comes merely from color of sky and grass and the outdoor
world, bring a relief from sadness that comes with the work and
life of the city man.

Often the play is an effort to seek excitement and thus to forget
cares, or it is a seeking of excitement for its own sake. Thus
men gamble, not only for the gain but because such excitement as
is aroused offers relief from business worries or home
difficulties. The prize fights, the highly competitive
professional sports of all kinds are frequented and followed by
enormous numbers of men, not only because men greatly admire
physical prowess, but because the intense excitement is sought. I
know more than one business and professional man who goes to the
"fights" because only there can he get a thrill. There is a
generalized mild anhedonia in the community, which has its origin
in the fatigue of overintense purposes, failure to realize ideals
and the difficulties of choice. People who suffer in this way
often seek the sedentary satisfaction of watching competitive
professional games.

Indeed, the hold of competition on man exists not alone in his
rivalry feeling toward others; it is evidenced also in the
excitement he immediately feels in the presence of competitive
struggle, even though he himself has little or no personal stake.
Man is a partisan creature and loves to take sides. This is
remarkably demonstrated by children, and is almost as well shown
in the play of adults. A recent international prize fight
awakened more intense interest than almost any international
event of whatever real importance. That same day it passed
practically unnoticed that America ended a state of war with
Germany.

A law of excitement, that it lies in part in a personal hazard
accounts for the growth of betting at games. The effort to gain
adds to the interest, i. e., excitement. That it adds tension as
well and may result in fatigue and further boredom is not
reckoned with by the bettor or gambler. To follow the middle of
the road in anything is difficult, and nowhere is it more beset
with danger than in the seeking of excitement.

Games of skill of all kinds, whether out of doors or within;
baseball, cricket, billiards, and pool afford, then, the pleasure
of exertion and competition in an exciting way and yet one
removed from too great a stake. Defeat is not bitter, though
victory is sweet; a good game is desired, and an easy opponent is
not welcomed. The spirit of this kind of play has been of great
value to society, for it has brought the feeling of fair play and
sportsmanship to the world. Primitive in its origin, to take
defeat nobly and victory with becoming modesty is the civilizing
influence of sportsmanship. In the past women have lacked
good-fellowship and sportsmanship largely because they played no
competitive-cooperative games.

I shall not attempt to take up in any detail all the forms of
pleasure-excitement seeking. Dancing, music, the theater and the
movies offer outlets both for the artistic impulses and the
seeking of excitement. In the theater and the movies one seeks
also the interest we take in the lives of others, the awakening
of emotions and the happy ending. Only a few people will ever
care for the artistic wholesale calamity of a play like "Hamlet,"
and even they only once in a while.

Men and women seek variety, they seek excitement in any and all
directions, they want relief from the tyranny of purpose and of
care. But also,--they hate a vacuum, they can usually bear
themselves and their thoughts for only a little while, because
their thoughts are often basicly melancholy and full of
dissatisfaction. So they seek escape from themselves; they try to
kill time; reading, playing and going to entertainments. In fact,
most of our reading is actuated by the play spirit, and is an
effort to obtain excitement through the lives of others.

Humor[1] is a form of pleasure seeking and giving, but depends on
a certain technique, the object of which is to elicit the laugh
or its equivalent. The laugh is a discharge of tension, and while
usually it accompanies pleasure, it may indicate the tension of
embarrassment or even complex emotional states. But the laugh or
smile of humor has to be elicited in certain ways, chief of which
are to bring about a feeling of expectation, and by some novel
arrangement of words, to send the mind on a voyage of discovery
which suddenly ends with a burst of pleasure when the "point" is
seen. The pleasure felt in humor arises from the feeling of
novelty, the pleasure of discovering a hidden meaning and the
pleasure in the "point" or motive of the story, joke or conduct.

[1] I use this term to include wit, satire and even certain
phases of the comic.


Usually, the humorous pleasure has these motives: it points at
the folly and absurdity of other people's conduct, thought, logic
and customs. It gives a feeling of superiority, and that is why
all races love to poke fun at other races: certain
characteristics of Jew, Irishman, Yankee, Scot, etc., are
presented in novel and striking fashion, in a playful manner.

It points out the weak and absurd side of people and institutions
with which we have trouble; and this brings in marriage,
business, mothers-in-law, creditors, debtors, as those whose
weakness is exposed by the technique of humor.

Humor likes to explode pretension, pedantry, dignity, pomposity;
we get a feeling of joy whenever those who are superior come a
cropper, which is increased when we feel that they have no right
to their places. So the humorous technique deals with the
get-rich-quick folk, the foolish nobleman, the politician, the
priest (especially in the Middle Ages), etc.

Not only does humor seek to obtain pleasure from an attack on
others and thus to feel superior or to compensate for
inferiority, but also it reaches its highest form in exposing man
himself, including the humorist. The humorist, seeking his own
weaknesses and contradictions, his falsities, strips the disguise
from himself in some surprising way. Bergson points out that to
strip away a disguise is naturely humorous unless it reveals too
rudely the horrible. The humorist takes off the mask from himself
and others, and in so far as we can detach ourselves from pride
and vanity, we laugh. The one who cannot thus detach himself is
"hurt" by humor; the one who somehow has become a spectator of
his own strivings can laugh at himself. Thus humor, in addition
to becoming a compensation and a form of entertainment, is a form
of self-revelation and self-understanding carried on by a
peculiar technique. On the whole this technique depends upon a
hiding of the real meaning of the story or situation under a
disguise of the commonplace. The humorist phrases his words or
develops his situation so as to send the thoughts of the listener
flying in several directions. There is a brief confusion, an
incongruity is felt, then suddenly from under a disguise the
point becomes clear and the laugh is in part one of triumph, in
part one of pleased surprise.

I shall not attempt an analysis of the psychology of humor, for
illustrious writers and thinkers have stubbed their intellectual
toes on this rock for centuries. In later years the analyses of
Freud and Bergson are noted, but there is a list of writers from
Aristotle down whose remarks and observations have brought out
clearly certain trends. For us the direction that any one's humor
takes is a very important phase in the study of character.

Humor is a weapon, and the humorist has two ends in view: the one
to please his audience and to align them on his side, the second
to attack either playfully or seriously some person or
institution with the technique of humor. Certain trends are seen
in humor, one to seek a feeling of superiority by revealing the
inferiority of others in a surprising way, another to release a
burdensome[1] inhibition, a third to play with and in a sense
mock the disagreeable features of life, and the fourth to seek
detachment from one's self, to seek relief from sorrow,
disappointment and deprivation by viewing the self as from afar.

[1] In this way humor is an effort for freedom; through humor one
tastes of experiences otherwise forbidden.


Dr Johnson justly observed, that, 'to go and see one druidical
temple is only to see that it is nothing, for there is neither
art nor power in it; and seeing one is quite enough'.

It was a delightful day. Lochness, and the road upon the side
of it, shaded with birch trees, and the hills above it, pleased
us much. The scene was as sequestered and agreeably wild as could
be desired, and for a time engrossed all our attention.

To see Dr Johnson in any new situation is always an interesting
object to me; and, as I saw him now for the first time on
horseback, jaunting about at his ease in quest of pleasure and
novelty, the very different occupations of his former laborious
life, his admirable productions, his London, his Rambler, &c. &c.
immediately presented themselves to my mind, and the contrast
made a strong impression on my imagination.

When we had advanced a good way by the side of Lochness, I perceived
a little hut, with an old looking woman at the door of it. I
thought here might be a scene that would amuse Dr Johnson: so I
mentioned it to him.

'Let's go in,' said he. We dismounted, and we and our guides entered
the hut. It was a wretched little hovel of earth only, I think,
and for a window had only a small hole, which was stopped with a
piece of turf, that was taken out occasionally to let in light.
In the middle of the room or space which we entered, was a fire
of peat, the smoke going out at a hole in the roof. She had
a pot upon it, with goat's flesh, boiling. There was at one
end under the same roof, but divided by a kind of partition made
of wattles, a pen or fold in which we saw a good many kids.

Dr Johnson was curious to know where she slept. I asked one of the
guides, who questioned her in Erse. She answered with a
tone of emotion, saying (as he told us) she was afraid we wanted
to go to bed to her. This coquetry, or whatever it may be called,
of so wretched a being, was truly ludicrous. Dr Johnson and I
afterwards were merry upon it. I said, it was he who alarmed the
poor woman's virtue. 'No, sir,' said he, 'she'll say, '"There
came a wicked young fellow, a wild dog, who I believe would have
ravished me, had there not been with him a grave old gentleman,
who repressed him: but when he gets out of the sight of
his tutor, I'll warrant you he'll spare no woman he meets, young
or old."' 'No, sir,' I replied, 'she'll say, "There was a
terrible ruffian who would have forced me, had it not been for
a civil decent young man who, I take it, was an angel sent from
heaven to protect me."'
Dr Johnson would not hurt her delicacy, by insisting on 'seeing
her bedchamber', like Archer in The Beaux' Stratagem. But my
curiosity was more ardent; I lighted a piece of paper, and went
into the place where the bed was. There was a little partition
of wicker, rather more neatly done than that for the fold, and
close by the wall was a kind of bedstead of wood with heath upon
it by way of bed; at the foot of which I saw some sort of blankets
or covering rolled up in a heap.

The woman's name was Fraser; so was her husband's. He was a
man of eighty.
Mr Fraser of Balnain allows him to live in this hut, and keep sixty
goats, for taking care of his woods, where he then was. They
had five children, the eldest only thirteen. Two were gone to
Inverness to buy meal; the rest were looking after the goats.
This contented family had four stacks of barley, twenty-four
sheaves in each. They had a few fowls. We were informed that they
lived all the spring without meal, upon milk and curds and
whey alone. What they get for their goats, kids, and fowls,
maintains them during the rest of the year.

She asked us to sit down and take a dram.

I saw one chair. She said she was as happy as any woman in Scotland.
She could hardly speak any English except a few detached words.
Dr Johnson was pleased at seeing, for the first time, such a
state of human life. She asked for snuff.
It is her luxury, and she uses a great deal. We had none; but gave
her six pence a piece. She then brought out her whisky
bottle. I tasted it; as did Joseph and our guides: so I
gave her sixpence more. She sent us away with many prayers in
Erse.

We dined at a publick house called the General's Hut, from
General Wade, who was lodged there when he commanded in the
North. Near it is the meanest parish kirk I ever saw. It is a
shame it should be on a high road.

After dinner, we passed through a good deal of mountainous
country. I had known Mr Trapaud, the deputy governour of Fort
Augustus, twelve years ago, at a circuit at Inverness, where my
father was judge. I sent forward one of our guides, and Joseph,
with a card to him, that he might know Dr Johnson and I were coming
up, leaving it to him to invite us or not. It was dark when we
arrived. The inn was wretched. Government ought to build one,
or give the resident governour an additional salary; as in
the present state of things, he must necessarily be put to a great
expence in entertaining travellers.
Joseph announced to us, when we alighted, that the governour
waited for us at the gate of the fort. We walked to it. He met
us, and with much civility conducted us to his house.

It was comfortable to find ourselves in a well built little square,
and a neatly furnished house, in good company, and with a good
supper before us; in short, with all the conveniencies of
civilized life in the midst of rude mountains.
Mrs Trapaud, and the governour's daughter, and her husband.
Captain Newmarsh, were all most obliging and polite. The governour
had excellent animal spirits, the conversation of a soldier,
and somewhat of a Frenchman, to which his extraction entitles
him. He is brother to General Cyrus Trapaud. We passed a very
agreeable evening.

Tuesday, 31st August

The governour has a very good garden. We looked at it, and
at the rest of the fort, which is but small, and may be commanded
from a variety of hills around. We also looked at the galley or
sloop belonging to the fort, which sails upon the Loch, and
brings what is wanted for the garrison. Captains Urie and
Darippe, of the 15th regiment of foot, breakfasted with us.

They had served in America, and entertained Dr Johnson much
with an account of the Indians. He said, he could make a
very pretty book out of them, were he to stay there. Governour
Trapaud was much struck with Dr Johnson. 'I like to hear him,'
said he; 'it is so majestick. I should be glad to hear him speak
in your court.' He pressed us to stay dinner; but I considered
that we had a rude road before us, which we could more easily
encounter in the morning, and that it was hard to say when we
might get up, were we to sit down to good entertainment, in good
company: I therefore begged the governour would excuse us. Here
too, I had another very pleasing proof how much my father is
regarded.

The governour expressed the highest respect for him, and bade
me tell him, that, if he would come that way on the northern
circuit, he would do him all the honours of the garrison.

Between twelve and one we set out, and travelled eleven
miles, through a wild country, till we came to a house in
Glenmorison, called Anoch, kept by a M'Queen. [Footnote: A M'Queen
is a Highland mode of expression. An Englishman would say
ONE M'Queen. But where there are clans or tribes of men, distinguished
by patronymick surnames, the individuals of each are considered
as if they were of different species, at least as much as nations
are distinguished; so that a M'QUEEN, a M'DONALD, a M'LEAN, is
said, as we say a Frenchman, an Italian, a Spaniard.] Our landlord
was a sensible fellow: he had learnt his grammar, and Dr
Johnson justly observed, that 'a man is the better for that
as long as he lives.' There were some books here: a Treatise
against Drunkenness, translated from the French; a volume of
the Spectator; a volume of Prideaux's Connection, and Cyrus's
Travels.

M'Queen said he had more volumes; and his pride seemed to be much
piqued that we were surprised at his having books.

Near to this place we had passed a party of soldiers, under a
serjeant's command, at work upon the road. We gave them two
shillings to drink. They came to our inn, and made merry in
the barn. We went and paid them a visit, Dr Johnson saying,
'Come, let's go and give 'em another shilling a-piece.' We
did so; and he was saluted 'My Lord' by all of them. He is
really generous, loves influence, and has the way of gaining
it. He said, 'I am quite feudal, sir.' Here I agree with him.
I said, I regretted I was not the head of a clan; however, though
not possessed of such an hereditary advantage, I would always
endeavour to make my tenants follow me. I could not be a
PATRIARCHAL chief, but I would be a FEUDAL chief.

The poor soldiers got too much liquor. Some of them fought,
and left blood upon the spot, and cursed whisky next morning.

The house here was built of thick turfs, and thatched with thinner
turfs and heath.
It had three rooms in length, and a little room which projected.
Where we sat, the side-walls were WAINSCOTTED, as Dr Johnson
said, with wicker, very neatly plaited. Our landlord had made the
whole with his own hands.

After dinner, M'Queen sat by us a while, and talked with us. He
said, all the Laird of Glenmorison's people would bleed for
him, if they were well used; but that seventy men had gone
out of the Glen to America. That he himself intended to go next
year; for that the rent of his farm, which twenty years ago
was only five pounds, was now raised to twenty pounds.

That he could pay ten pounds, and live; but no more. Dr Johnson
said, he wished M'Queen Laird of Glenmorison, and the laird to
go to America. M'Queen very generously answered, he should
be sorry for it; for the laird could not shift for himself in
America as he could do.

I talked of the officers whom we had left to day; how much
service they had seen, and how little they got for it,
even of fame. JOHNSON.
'Sir, a soldier gets as little as any man can get.'

BOSWELL.
'Goldsmith has acquired more fame than all the officers last war,
who were not Generals.' JOHNSON. 'Why, sir, you will find ten
thousand fit to do what they did, before you find one who does
what Goldsmith has done. You must consider, that a thing
is valued according to its rarity. A pebble that paves the street
is in itself more useful than the diamond upon a lady's finger.'
I wish our friend Goldsmith had heard this.

I yesterday expressed my wonder that John Hay, one of our
guides, who had been pressed aboard a man of war, did not choose
to continue in it longer than nine months, after which time he got
off. JOHNSON. 'Why, sir, no man will be a sailor, who has
contrivance enough to get himself into a jail; for, being in a
ship is being in a jail, with the chance of being drowned.'

We had tea in the afternoon, and our landlord's daughter, a
modest civil girl, very neatly drest, made it for us. She told us,
she had been a year at Inverness, and learnt reading and writing,
sewing, knotting, working lace, and pastry. Dr Johnson made her
a present of a book which he had bought at Inverness. [Footnote:
This book has given rise to much inquiry, which has ended
in ludicrous surprise.

Several ladies, wishing to learn the kind of reading which the
great and good Dr Johnson esteemed most fit for a young
woman, desired to know what book he had selected for this Highland
nymph. They never adverted,' said he, 'that I had no CHOICE in
the matter. I have said that I presented her with a book which
I HAPPENED to have about me.' And what was this book? My readers,
prepare your features for merriment. It was Cocker's Arithmetick!
Wherever this was mentioned, there was a loud laugh, at which Dr
Johnson, when present used sometimes to be a little angry.

One day, when we were dining at General Oglethorpe's, where we had
many a valuable day, I ventured to interrogate him, 'But, sir, is
it not somewhat singular that you should HAPPEN to have Cocker's
Arithmetick about you on your journey?

What made you buy such a book at Inverness?' He gave me a very
sufficient answer. 'Why, sir, if you are to have but one book
with you upon a Journey, let it be a book of science. When
you have read through a book of entertainment, you know it, and
it can do no more for you; but a book of science is
inexhaustible.']

The room had some deals laid across the joists, as a kind of
ceiling.
There were two beds in the room, and a woman's gown was hung
on a rope to make a curtain of separation between them. Joseph
had sheets, which my wife had sent with us, laid on them. We
had much hesitation, whether to undress, or lie down with our
clothes on. I said at last.
'I'll plunge in! There will be less harbour for vermin about me,
when I am stripped!' Dr Johnson said, he was like one hesitating
whether to go into the cold bath.

At last he resolved too. I observed, he might serve a campaign.
JOHNSON. 'I could do all that can be done by patience: whether
I should have strength enough, I know not.' He was in excellent
humour. To see the Rambler as I saw him tonight, was really an
amusement. I yesterday told him, I was thinking of writing a
poetical letter to him. On his Return from Scotland, in the
stile of Swift's humorous epistle in the character of Mary
Gulliver to her husband, Captain Lemuel Gulliver, on his
return to England from the country of the Houyhnhums:

At early morn I to the market haste, Studious in ev'ry thing to
please thy taste.
A curious FOWL and SPARAGRASS I chose; (For I remember you were
fond of those:) Three shillings cost the first, the last sev'n
groats; Sullen you turn from both, and call for OATS.

He laughed, and asked in whose name I would write it. I said,
in Mrs Thrale's. He was angry. 'Sir, if you have any sense of
decency or delicacy, you won't do that!' BOSWELL. 'Then let
it be in Cole's, the landlord of the Mitre tavern; where we
have so often sat together.' JOHNSON. 'Ay, that may do.'
After we had offered up our private devotions, and had
chatted a little from our beds, Dr Johnson said, 'God bless
us both, for Jesus Christ's sake! Good night!' I pronounced 'Amen.'
He fell asleep immediately. I was not so fortunate for a long time.
I fancied myself bit by innumerable vermin under the clothes; and
that a spider was travelling from the wainscot towards my mouth.
At last I fell into insensibility.

Wednesday, 1st September

I awaked very early. I began to imagine that the landlord, being
about to emigrate, might murder us to get our money, and lay
it upon the soldiers in the barn. Such groundless fears will arise
in the mind, before it has resumed its vigour after sleep! Dr
Johnson had had the same kind of ideas; for he told me afterwards,
that he considered so many soldiers, having seen us, would be
witnesses, should any harm be done, and that circumstance, I
suppose, 'he considered as a security.
When I got up, I found him sound asleep in his miserable stye,
as I may call it, with a coloured handkerchief tied round
his head.

With difficulty could I awaken him. It reminded me of Henry the
Fourth's fine soliloquy on sleep; for there was here as
'uneasy a pallet' as the poet's imagination could possibly
conceive.

A red coat of the 15th regiment, whether officer, or only serjeant,
I could not be sure, came to the house, in his way to the
mountains to shoot deer, which it seems the Laird of Glenmorison
does not hinder any body to do.

Few, indeed, can do them harm. We had him to breakfast with
us. We got away about eight. M'Queen walked some miles to
give us a convoy. He had, in 1745, joined the Highland
army at Fort Augustus, and continued in it till after the battle
of Culloden. As he narrated the particulars of that ill-advised,
but brave attempt, I could not refrain from tears. There is
a certain association of ideas in my mind upon that subject, by
which I am strongly affected.

The very Highland names, or the sound of a bagpipe; will stir my
blood, and fill me with a mixture of melancholy and respect
for courage; with pity for an unfortunate and superstitious
regard for antiquity, and thoughtless inclination for war; in
short, with a crowd of sensations with which sober rationality
has nothing to do.

We passed through Glensheal, with prodigious mountains on each
side.
We saw where the battle was fought in the year 1719; Dr
Johnson owned he was now in a scene of as wild nature as he
could see; but he corrected me sometimes in my inaccurate observations.
'There,' said I, 'is a mountain like a cone.' JOHNSON. 'No,
sir. It would be called so in a book; and when a man comes to
look at it, he sees it is not so.
It is indeed pointed at the top; but one side of it is larger
than the other.' Another mountain I called immense. JOHNSON. 'No;
it is no more than a considerable protuberance.'
We came to a rich green valley, comparatively speaking, and
stopped a while to let our horses rest and eat grass. [Footnote:
Dr Johnson, in his Journey, thus beautifully describes his
situation here: 'I sat down on a bank, such as a writer of romance
might have delighted to feign. I had, indeed, no trees to whisper
over my head; but a clear rivulet streamed at my feet. The
day was calm, the air soft, and all was rudeness, silence, and
solitude.

Before me, and on either side, were high hills, which, by
hindering the eye from ranging, forced the mind to find entertainment
for itself. Whether I spent the hour well, I know not: for here
I first conceived the thought of this narration.' The Critical
Reviewers, with a spirit and expression worthy of the
subject, say, 'We congratulate the publick on the event with which
this quotation concludes, and are fully persuaded that the hour in
which the entertaining traveller conceived this narrative will be
considered, by every reader of taste, as a fortunate event in the
annals of literature.

Were it suitable to the talk in which we are at present engaged,
to indulge ourselves in a poetical flight, we would invoke
the winds of the Caledonian mountains to blow for ever, with their
softest breezes, on the bank where our author reclined, and
request of Flora, that it might be perpetually adorned with the
gayest and most fragrant productions of the year.'] We soon
afterwards came to Auchnasheal, a kind of rural village,
a number of cottages being built together, as we saw all along
in the Highlands. We passed many miles this day without seeing a
house, but only little summer-huts, called shielings. Evan
Campbell, servant to Mr Murchison, factor to the Laird
of Macleod in Glenelg, ran along with us to-day. He was a very
obliging fellow.

At Auchnasheal, we sat down on a green turf-seat at the
end of a house; they brought us out two wooden dishes of milk,
which we tasted. One of them was frothed like a syllabub. I
saw a woman preparing it with such a stick as is used for
chocolate, and in the same manner. We had a considerable
circle about us, men, women and children, all M'Craas, Lord
Seaforth's people. Not one of them could speak English. I observed
to Dr Johnson, it was much the same as being with a tribe of
Indians. JOHNSON. 'Yes, sir; but not so terrifying.' I gave all
who chose it, snuff and tobacco. Governour Trapaud had made us
buy a quantity at Fort Augustus, and put them up in small
parcels.
I also gave each person a bit of wheat bread, which they had never
tasted before. I then gave a penny apiece to each child. I told Dr
Johnson of this; upon which he called to Joseph and our guides, for
change for a shilling, and declared that he would distribute among
the children. Upon this being announced in Erse, there was a great
stir; not only did some children come running down from neighbouring
huts, but I observed one black-haired man, who had been with us all
along, had gone off, and returned, bringing a very young child. My
fellow traveller then ordered the children to be drawn up in a row;
and he dealt about his copper, and made them and their parents all
happy. The poor M'Craas, whatever may be their present state, were
of considerable estimation in the year 1715, when there was a line
in a song.

And aw the brave M'Craas are coming.
[Footnote: The M'Craas, or Macraes, were since that time brought
into the king's army, by the late Lord Seaforth. When they lay in
Edinburgh castle in 1778, and were ordered to embark for Jersey,
they with a number of other men in the regiment, for different
reasons, but especially an apprehension that they were to be sold
to the East-India Company, though enlisted not to be sent out of
Great-Britain without their own consent, made a determined mutiny
and encamped upon the lofty mountain, Arthur's Seat, where they
remained three days and three nights; bidding defiance to all the
force in Scotland.Orthodoxy, piety, tolerance and
skepticism represent attitudes towards organized religion:
altruism, sympathy, good will, and fellowship are the
measurements of the unorganized religion whose mission it is to
find the purpose of life.

We have spoken throughout of man as a mosaic of character, and we
must modify this statement. A mosaic is a static collection,
whereas a man has character struggles, balance and overbalance.
Really to know a man is to get at the proportionate power of his
various trends, to understand his harmonies and disharmonies.

Character development is the story of the unification of the
traits or characters. Disharmony, disproportion of traits and
characters may be progressive and lead to disaster and mental
disease, or a balance may be reached after a struggle and what we
call reform takes place. Though our social life tends to narrow
and repress character, it also tends to harmonize it by the
preventing of excess development of certain traits. The social
person is on the whole well balanced, though he may be mediocre.
On the other hand, the non-social person usually tends to
unbalance in the sense that he becomes odd and eccentric.

What are the chief disharmonies? I mean, of course, glaring
disharmonies, for no one is of harmonious development, with
intelligence, emotions, instincts, desires, purposes in
cooperation with each other. This I propose to consider in more
detail in the next chapter, on some character types, but it will
be of use to sketch the great disharmonies.

Character is dynamic, and a fundamental disharmony, even if not
noticeable early in life, may progress to the point of disruption
of the personality. Thus an individual who is strongly egoistic
in his purposes and aims may succeed if at the same time he is
determined intelligent and shrewd. But let us suppose he has a
son who is as strongly egoistic, is as determined, but lacks
intelligence and shrewdness. Not becoming successful, this person
ascribes his failure to others and develops ideas of persecution.

Again, a true poet is a person of keen sensibilities, but he must
possess at the same time imaginative intelligence and the power
of words. Let these be joined in proper proportions, and his
verse becomes ours and we hail him as a poet. But let him lack
the power of words, and though he sweat with a desire to write he
is a failure or a hack poet, making up by industry what he lacks
in beauty. Suppose there is a man deeply passionate, thrilled by
the beauty of women and desiring them with a fierce ardor, and
yet he has strong inhibitions, great purposes which hold him
steady. Then throughout life he seems calm, chaste and
controlled, and no one knows of the turmoil and battle within
him. We may suppose that old age[1] or a sickness lowers his
inhibiting qualities, and a startling change in conduct results,
one that we can scarcely believe and which we are inclined to
call a complete transformation of personality. In reality, a
disharmony has occurred, some trend has been released, and
conduct, which is a resultant, changes its direction.

[1] Sexual misdemeanor is not uncommon in old men who have
hitherto been of hallowed reputation.


Inhibition control, may develop later than it should, as I have
already mentioned. At adolescence sex desire comes suddenly into
play, but usually in one way or another there are checks upon its
effects already established. But often there is not, and the boy
or girl plunges into a sex life that brings them into violent
conflict with themselves and society. Despite their efforts the
non-ethical conduct continues; despite their tears and vows to
reform they are swept by "temptation" into difficulty. Then
suddenly or gradually, perhaps long after every one despairs of
them, the inhibition appears, and they settle down to a
controlled life. What has happened? We cannot say in anatomical
terms, but from a psychological standpoint the function of
inhibition, delayed in its appearance, finally comes on the
scene. We see this delay in other phases of character; there is
often delay in sex feeling, in the interest in work, in love of
the beautiful, in control of anger, etc. Take the last mentioned:
an irascible child grows into an irascible adolescent and even
into a similar adult, flaring up under the least provocation, to
the dismay and disgust of others and himself. "He can't control
himself," so say others, and so thinks he. He vows reform, but
nothing seems to help. Then like a miracle comes the longed-for
inhibition; anger is still there when his will is crossed or his
opinion scouted, but a firm hand is on it, and he maintains a
calm he had despaired of reaching.

Man is a bundle of disharmonies, as the great Eli Metchnikoff
pointed out, physically, psychologically and sociologically. When
these disharmonies are within average limits we do not notice
them; when they are greater in degree they bring about conduct
that at once claims attention. Sometimes a disharmony is merely
an excess development of some ability, in which case, if the
ability is socially valuable, we have the talented person or the
genius. This is often the case with the artistic abilities and
also with the physical powers. Then I would tell him, that
he may marry one of the Miss M'Leods, a lady of great family.
Sir, it is surprising how people will go to a distance for what
they may have at home.

I knew a lady who came up from Lincolnshire to Knightsbridge
with one of her daughters and gave five guineas a week for a
lodging and a warm bath; that is, mere warm water. THAT, you
know, could not be had in Lincolnshire! She said, it was made
either too hot or too cold there.'
After breakfast, Dr Johnson and I, and Joseph, mounted horses, and
Col and the captain walked with us about a short mile across the
island.
We paid a visit to the Reverend Mr Hector M'Lean. His parish
consists of the islands of Col and Tyr-yi.

He was about seventy-seven years of age, a decent ecclesiastick,
dressed in a full suit of black clothes, and a black wig. He
appeared like a Dutch pastor, or one of the assembly of
divines at Westminster.

Dr Johnson observed to me afterwards, 'that he was a fine old
man, and was as well-dressed, and had as much dignity in his
appearance as the dean of a cathedral'. We were told, that he
had a valuable library, though but poor accomodation for it,
being obliged to keep his books in large chests.
It was curious to see him and Dr Johnson together. Neither
of them heard very distinctly; so each of them talked in
his own way, and at the same time. Mr M'Lean said, he had
a confutation of Bayle, by Leibnitz. JOHNSON.

'A confutation of Bayle, sir! What part of Bayle do you mean?
The greatest part of his writings is not confutable: it is
historical and critical.' Mr M'Lean said, 'the irreligious part';
and proceeded to talk of Leibnitz's controversy with Clarke,
calling Leibnitz a great man. JOHNSON. 'Why, sir, Leibnitz persisted
in affirming that Newton called space sensorium numinis,
notwithstanding he was corrected, and desired to observe that
Newton's words were quasisensorium numinis. No, sir, Leibnitz
was as paltry a fellow as I know.

Out of respect to Queen Caroline, who patronized him,
Clarke treated him too well.'
During the time that Dr Johnson was thus going on, the old
minister was standing with his back to the fire, cresting up
erect, pulling down the front of his periwig, and talking what
a great man Leibnitz was. To give an idea of the scene, would
require a page with two columns; but it ought rather to be
represented by two good players.
The old gentleman said, Clarke was very wicked, for going so
much into the Arian system. 'I will not say he was wicked,' said
Dr Johnson; 'he might be mistaken.' M'LEAN. 'He was wicked, to
shut his eyes against the Scriptures; and worthy men in England
have since confuted him to all intents and purposes.' JOHNSON.
'I know not WHO has confuted him to ALL INTENTS AND PURPOSES.'
Here again there was a double talking, each continuing to maintain
his own argument, without hearing exactly what the other said.

I regretted that Dr Johnson did not practice the art of accommodating
himself to different sorts of people. Had he been softer with
this venerable old man, we might have had more conversation;
but his forcible spirit; and impetuosity of manner, may be said
to spare neither sex nor age. I have seen even Mrs Thrale stunned;
but I have often maintained, that it is better he should retain
his own manner.

Pliability of address I conceive to be inconsistent with that
majestick power of mind which he possesses, and which produces such
noble effects.

A lofty oak will not bend like a supple willow.

He told me afterwards, he liked firmness in an old man, and was
pleased to see Mr M'Lean so orthodox. 'At his age, it is too late
for a man to be asking himself questions as to his belief.'

We rode to the northern part of the island, where we saw
the ruins of a church or chapel. We then proceeded to a place
called Grissipol, or the Rough Pool.

At Grissipol we found a good farm house, belonging to the Laird
of Col, and possessed by Mr M'Sweyn. On the beach here there
is a singular variety of curious stones. I picked up one very
like a small cucumber. By the by, Dr Johnson told me, that Gay's
line in the Beggar's Opera, 'As men should serve a cucumber,'
&c. has no waggish meaning, with reference to men flinging away
cucumbers as too COOLING, which some have thought; for it has
been a common saying of physicians in England, that a cucumber
should be well sliced, and dressed with pepper and vinegar,
and then thrown out, as good for nothing. Mr M'Sweyn's
predecessors had been in Sky from a very remote period,
upon the estate belonging to M'Leod; probably before M'Leod had
it.

The name is certainly Norwegian, from Sueno, King of Norway. The
present Mr M'Sweyn left Sky upon the late M'Leod's raising his
rents. He then got this farm from Col.

He appeared to be near fourscore; but looked as fresh, and was as
strong as a man of fifty. His son Hugh looked older; and, as Dr
Johnson observed, had more the manners of an old man
than he. I had often heard of such instances, but never
saw one before. Mrs M'Sweyn was a decent old gentlewoman. She
was dressed in tartan, and could speak nothing but Erse. She said,
she taught Sir James M'Donald Erse, and would teach me soon.

I could now sing a verse of the song Hatyin foam'eri, made in
honour of Allan, the famous Captain of Clanranald, who fell at
Sherrif-muir; whose servant, who lay on the field watching his
master's dead body, being asked next day who that was, answered,
'He was a man yesterday.'
We were entertained here with a primitive heartiness. Whisky was
served round in a shell, according to the ancient Highland custom.
Dr Johnson would not partake of it; but, being desirous to
do honour to the modes 'of other times', drank some water out of
the shell.

In the forenoon Dr Johnson said, 'it would require great resignation
to live in one of these islands.' BOSWELL. 'I don't know, sir;
I have felt myself at times in a state of almost mere physical
existence, satisfied to eat, drink, and sleep, and walk
about, and enjoy my own thoughts; and I can figure a
continuation of this.' JOHNSON. 'Ay, sir; but if you were shut
up here, your own thoughts would torment you: you would think
of Edinburgh or London, and that you could not be there.'
We set out after dinner for Breacacha, the family seat of the
Laird of Col, accompanied by the young laird, who had now
got a horse, and by the younger Mr M'Sweyn, whose wife had gone
thither before us, to prepare every thing for our reception, the
laird and his family being absent at Aberdeen.

It is called Breacacha, or the Spotted Field, because in summer
it is enamelled with clover and daisies, as young Col told
me. We passed by a place where there is a very large stone, I
may call it a ROCK--'a vast weight for Ajax'. The tradition
is, that a giant threw such another stone at his mistress, up to
the top of a hill, at a small distance; and that she in return,
threw this mass down to him. It was all in sport. Malo me petit
lasciva puella.

As we advanced, we came to a large extent of plain ground. I had
not seen such a place for a long time. Col and I took a gallop
upon it by way of race. It was very refreshing to me, after having
been so long taking short steps in hilly countries. It was
like stretching a man's legs after being cramped in a short bed.
We also passed close by a large extent of sand-hills, near two
miles square. Dr Johnson said, 'he never had the image before.
It was horrible, if barrenness and danger could be so.' I
heard him, after we were in the house of Breacacha, repeating
to himself, as he walked about the room,
'"And smother'd in the dusty whirlwind, dies."'

Probably he had been thinking of the whole of the simile in Cato,
of which that is the concluding line; the sandy desart had struck
him so strongly. The sand has of late been blown over a good
deal of meadow; and the people of the island say, that their fathers
remembered much of the space which is now covered with sand,
to have been under tillage. Col's house is situated on a bay
called Breacacha Bay. We found here a neat new-built gentleman's
house, better than any we had been in since we were at Lord
Errol's. Dr Johnson relished it much at first, but soon
remarked to me, that 'there was nothing becoming a chief about
it: it was a mere tradesman's box.'

He seemed quite at home, and no longer found any difficulty in using
the Highland address; for as soon as we arrived, he said, with
a spirited familiarity, 'Now, COL, if you could get us a dish
of tea,' Dr Johnson and I had each an excellent bed-chamber.
We had a dispute which of us had the best curtains. His
were rather the best, being of linen; but I insisted that
my bed had the best posts, which was undeniable. 'Well,'
said he, 'if you HAVE the best POSTS, we will have you tied to
them and whipped.'

I mention this slight circumstance, only to shew how ready he is,
even in mere trifles, to get the better of his antagonist, by
placing him in a ludicrous view. I have known him sometimes use
the same art, when hard pressed in serious disputation.
Goldsmith, I remember, to retaliate for many a severe defeat
which he has suffered from him, applied to him a lively saying
in one of Cibber's comedies, which puts this part of his
character in a strong light. 'There is no arguing with Johnson;
for, IF HIS PISTOL MISSES FIRE, HE KNOCKS YOU DOWN WITH
THE BUT-END OF IT.'

Wednesday, 6th October
After a sufficiency of sleep, we assembled at breakfast. We were
just as if in barracks.

Every body was master. We went and viewed the old castle of Col,
which is not far from the present house, near the shore, and
founded on a rock. It has never been a large feudal residence,
and has nothing about it that requires a particular description.
Like other old inconvenient buildings of the same age, it
exemplified Gray's picturesque lines,
Huge windows that exclude the light.
And passages that lead to nothing.

It may however be worth mentioning, that on the second story we
saw a vault, which was, and still is, the family prison. There
was a woman put into it by the laird, for theft, within these ten
years; and any offender would be confined there yet; for, from the
necessity of the thing, as the island is remote from any power
established by law, the laird must exercise his jurisdiction to
a certain degree.

We were shewn, in a corner of this vault, a hole, into which Col
said greater criminals used to be put.

It was now filled up with rubbish of different kinds. He said,
it was of a great depth. 'Ay,' said Dr Johnson, smiling, 'all
such places, that ARE FILLED UP, were of a great depth.' He
is very quick in shewing that he does not give credit to careless
or exaggerated accounts of things.

After seeing the castle, we looked at a small hut near it. It
is called Teigh Franchich, i.e. the Frenchman's House. Col could
not tell us the history of it. A poor man with a wife and
children now lived in it. We went into it, and Dr Johnson gave
them some charity. There was but one bed for all the family, and
the hut was very smoky.

When he came out, he said to me, 'Et hoc secundum sententiam
philosophorum est esse beatus.' BOSWELL. 'The philosophers, when
they placed happiness in a cottage, supposed cleanliness
and no smoke.' JOHNSON. 'Sir, they did not think about either.'

We walked a little in the laird's garden, in which endeavours have
been used to rear some trees; but, as soon as they got above the
surrounding wall, they died.

Dr Johnson recommended sowing the seeds of hardy trees,
instead of planting.

Col and I rode out this morning, and viewed a part of the
island. In the course of our ride, we saw a turnip-field, which
he had hoed with his own hands.

He first introduced this kind of husbandry into the Western
islands. We also looked at an appearance of lead, which seemed
very promising. It has been long known; for I found letters to
the late laird, from Sir John Areskine and Sir Alexander
Murray, respecting it.

After dinner came Mr M'Lean, of Corneck, brother to Isle of Muck,
who is a cadet of the family of Col. He possesses the two
ends of Col, which belong to the Duke of Argyll. Corneck had
lately taken a lease of them at a very advanced rent, rather than
let the Campbells get a footing in the island, one of whom had
offered nearly as much as he.
Dr Johnson well observed, that, 'landlords err much when they
calculate merely what their land MAY yield.

The rent must be in a proportionate ratio of what the land may
yield, and of the power of the tenant to make it yield. A
tenant cannot make by his land, but according to the corn and
cattle which he has. Suppose you should give him twice as much
land as he has, it does him no good, unless he gets also more
stock. It is clear then, that the Highland landlords, who let
their substantial tenants leave them, are infatuated; for the
poor small tenants cannot give them good rents, from the very
nature of things. They have not the means of raising
more from their farms.' Corneck, Dr Johnson said, was the
most distinct man that he had met with in these isles; he did not
shut his eyes, or put his fingers in his ears, which he seemed to
think was a good deal the mode with most of the people whom we
have seen of late.

Thursday, 7th October
Captain M'Lean joined us this morning at breakfast.

There came on a dreadful storm of wind and rain, which continued
all day, and rather increased at night. The wind was directly
against our getting to Mull.
We were in a strange state of abstraction from the world: we
could neither hear from our friends, nor write to them. Col had
brought Daille On the Fathers, Lucas On Happiness, and
More's Dialogues, from the Reverend Mr M'Lean's, and Burnet's
History of his own Times, from Captain M'Lean's; and he had of
his own some books of farming, and Gregory's Geometry. Dr Johnson
read a good deal of Burnet, and of Gregory, and I observed he
made some geometrical notes in the end of his pocket-book. I read
a little of Young's Six Weeks Tour through the Southern Counties;
and Ovid's Epistles, which I had bought at Inverness, and which
helped to solace many a weary hour.

We were to have gone with Dr Johnson this morning to see the mine;
but were prevented by the storm. While it was raging, he
said, 'We may be glad we are not damnati ad metalla.'

Friday, 8th October
Dr Johnson appeared to day very weary of our present confined
situation. He said, 'I want to be on the main land, and go on
with existence. This is a waste of life.'

I shall here insert, without regard to chronology, some of his
conversation at different times.

'There was a man some time ago, who was well received
for two years, among the gentlemen of Northamptonshire, by calling
himself my brother. At last he grew so impudent as by his
influence to get tenants turned out of their farms.

Allen the printer, who is of that county, came to me, asking,
with much appearance of doubtfulness, if I had a brother; and
upon being assured I had none alive, he told me of the imposition,
and immediately wrote to the country, and the fellow was dismissed.
It pleased me to hear that so much was got by using my
name.

It is not every name that can carry double; do both for a
man's self and his brother'(laughing). 'I should be glad to
see the fellow.
However, I could have done nothing against him. A man can have no
redress for his name being used, or ridiculous stories being told
of him in the news-papers, except he can shew that he has suffered
damage.

Some years ago a foolish piece was published, said to be written
"by S. Johnson". Some of my friends wanted me to be very angry
about this. I said, it would be in vain; for the answer would
be, S.
Johnson may be Simon Johnson, or Simeon Johnson, or Solomon
Johnson; and even if the full name, Samuel Johnson, had been
used, it might be said; "it is not you; it is a much cleverer
fellow."
'Beauclerk and I, and Langton, and Lady Sydney Beauclerk, mother
to our friend, were one day driving in a coach by Cuper's Gardens,
which were then unoccupied.

I, in sport, proposed that Beauclerk and Langton, and myself
should take them; and we amused ourselves with scheming how we
should all do our parts. Lady Sydney grew angry, and said, "an
old man should not put such things in young people's heads".

She had no notion of a joke, sir; had come late into life, and
had a mighty unpliable understanding.

'Carte's Life of the Duke of Ormond is considered as a book of
authority; but it is ill-written. The matter is diffused
in too many words; there is no animation, no compression, no
vigour. Two good volumes in duodecimo might be made out of the
two in folio.'
Talking of our confinement here, I observed, that our
discontent and impatience could not be considered as very unreasonable;
for that we were just in the state of which Seneca complains so
grievously, while in exile in Corsica.

'Yes,' said Dr Johnson, 'and he was not farther from home than
we are.' The truth is, he was much nearer.

There was a good deal of rain to-day, and the wind was still
contrary.

Corneck attended me, while I amused myself in examining a collection
of papers belonging to the family of Col. The first laird was a
younger son of the chieftain M'Lean, and got the middle part
of Col for his patrimony. Dr Johnson having given a very
particular account of the connection between this family and
a branch of the family of Camerons, called M'Lonich, I
shall only insert the following document (which I found in
Col's cabinet), as a proof of its continuance, even to a late
period:

To the Laird of Col.

Dear Sir,
The long-standing tract of firm affectionate friendship 'twixt your
worthy predecessors and ours affords us such assurance, as that we
may have full relyance on your favour and undoubted friendship, in
recommending the bearer, Ewen Cameron, our cousin, son to the deceast
Dugall M'Connill of Innermaillie, sometime in Glenpean, to your
favour and conduct, who is a man of undoubted honesty and discretion,
only that he has the misfortune of being alledged to have been
accessory to the killing of one of M'Martin's family about fourteen
years ago, upon which alledgeance the M'Martins are now so sanguine
on revenging, that they are fully resolved for the deprivation of
his life; to the preventing of which you are relyed on by us, as
the only fit instrument and a most capable person. Therefore your
favour and protection is expected and intreated, during his good
behaviour; and failing of which behaviour, you'll please to use him
as a most insignificant person deserves.
Sir, he had, upon the alledgeance foresaid, been transported, at
Lochiel's desire, to France, to gratify the M'Martins, and upon his
return home, about five years ago, married: But now he is so much
theatened by the M'Martins, that he is not secure enough to stay
where he is, being Ardmurchan, which occasions this trouble to you.
Wishing prosperity and happiness to attend still yourself, worthy
Lady, and good family, we are, in the most affectionate manner,
Dear sir,
Your most obliged, affectionate, and most humble servants, DUGALL
CAMERON, of Strone.
DUGALL CAMERON, of Ban.
DUGALL CAMERON, of Inveriskvouilline.
DUGALL CAMERON, of Invinvalie.
Strone, 11th March, 1737.
Ewen Cameron was protected, and his son has now a farm from the
Laird of Col, in Mull.
The family of Col was very loyal in the time of the great Montrose,
from whom I found two letters in his own hand-writing. The first
is as follows.

FOR MY VERY LOVING FRIEND THE LAIRD OF COALL.The man
changed over, studied hard, read outside literature and actually
asked for the privilege of working in the laboratory Sundays and
holidays so that he might learn more. When this was known to the
rest of the class, there were bets placed that he would not
"last," but quite to the surprise of everybody D. M. gained in
momentum as he went along. As a matter of fact, his interest on
the subject grew, and he is now a bacteriologist of good
standing. In fact, his lack of interest in other matters has
helped him, since he has no distracting tastes or pleasures.

Thus there are persons of specialized interest and energy, and it
may well be that there is for most of the hypokinetic a line of
work that would act to energize them. The problem, therefore, in
each case is to find the latent ability and interest and to
regard no case as really hopeless. I say this despite the fact
that I believe some cases are hopeless. The pessimistic attitude
on the part of parent or teacher kills effort; the optimistic
attitude fosters energetic effort.

6. The irritable hypokinetic. Irritability[1] of a pathological
type as a phase of lowered energy is well known to every
physiologist and in the practical everyday world is seen in the
tired and sick. There are people who from the very start of life
show lowered endurance, who respond to certain stimuli in an
excessive manner and are easily exhausted. This type the
neurologist calls the congenital neurasthenic, and it may be we
are dealing here with some defect in the elimination of fatigue
products. This, however, is only a guess, and the disease factor,
if there is any, is entirely unknown. I do not pretend that the
person I am to describe is entirely representative of this group.
Indeed, no dozen cases would show all the symptoms and
peculiarities of the irritable hypokinetic group.

[1] One must take care not to mistake the irritability which is
the characteristic of all living tissue for the irritability here
considered.


E. is a man at present thirty years of age. In person he is of
average height, rather slender, with delicate features, somewhat
bald, quick in action and speech. He flushes easily and thus
often has high color, especially when fatigued or excited. This
"vasomotor irritability," as the physicians call it, is quite
common in this group of people, and in fact in all neurasthenia,
whether acquired or congenital. Though I have described E. as
belonging to the slender type of person, it is necessary to say
that stout, rugged-looking people are often irritable and
hypokinetic.

As a child E. "never could stand excitement or strain," as his
mother says. What is meant is this: that he became overexcited
under almost any circumstances and became profoundly fatigued
afterwards. As we have seen, the intense diffusion of excitement
throughout the whole body is a sign of the childish and inferior
organism; as maturity approaches and throughout childhood
excitability decreases and is better localized. When a noise is
heard an infant jumps, and so do people like E., but the better
controlled merely turn their head and eyes to see what the source
of the noise may be. This lack of control of excitement extended
in E.'s case to play, entertainment, novelty of any kind, crowds
and especially to the disagreeable excitement of quarrels,
fights, terrifying experiences, etc. Under anger he trembled,
grew pale, and his shouts and screams were beyond control; under
fear he became actually sick, vomited and showed a liability to
syncope of an alarming kind. E. was not the selfish type of the
neurasthenic; he was gentle and kind and ready to share with
everybody, a lovable boy of an intensely sociable nature.
Nevertheless, his high excitability and his quick fatigue made it
necessary to shelter him, for any effort at toughening merely
brought about a "breakdown."

Here we must reemphasize the fundamental importance of the
fatigue reactions. The normal fatigue reaction is to feel weary,
to desire rest and to be able to rest and sleep. The abnormal
reaction, one directly opposed to the well-being of the
individual, is to feel exhausted, to become restless and to find
it difficult to sleep. There are children who thrive on
excitement and exertion; they sleep sounder for it, they
recuperate readily and gain in strength and endurance with every
ordinary burden put upon them. There are others to whom anything
but the least excitement and exertion acts as a poison, making
them restless and exhausted. Not all children who show this
perverse fatigue reaction grow up with it. It may be only a
temporary phase of their lives, but while it lasts it is very
troublesome.

In E.'s case the overexcitable hypokinetic stage lasted until
about the ninth year, and then there was a great improvement,
though he still was of the same general type. He became a fairly
good runner for a short distance, learned to swim, though he
stood the cold water poorly, was clever and graceful as a dancer
and was quite popular. At sixteen he left school to enter
business, because of the straitened means of his family. He
entered into adolescent period later and suffered greatly from
his sixteenth to nineteenth year from, fatigue, hypochondriacal
fears, and had to have a good deal of medical attention at this
time. Sex questions perplexed him, for he became quite passionate
and at the same time had much moral repugnance to illicit
relations. His sexual curiosity was intense, and he read all
manner of books on the subject, went to the burlesque shows on
the sly and almost became obsessed on sex matters.

At this stage he made only a mediocre showing in his business
career, though his evident honesty secured him promotion to a
clerk's position. After his nineteenth year he seemed to gain
again in energy and endurance and was fairly well until his
twenty-eighth year, though he had to nurse his endurance at all
times, developed very regular habits of sleep, diet, etc., and in
this manner got along. Once he had an opportunity to join an
organization which would have paid him a better salary, but the
hours were irregular, and it would have demanded much exertion
and excitement, so he passed it by.

In 1917 he joined the army, partly because of patriotic motives,
partly because he was convinced that army life might develop his
endurance and energy. He was sent to an army post in the South
and within two months of his entrance had "broken down." He was
sleepless, restless, was irritable and "jumpy," had lost appetite
and the feeling of endurance. Life seemed intolerable, though he
had no desire to do away with himself, for he had no quarrel with
life itself but was disgusted with his inferiority. He was
hospitalized, but this did little good and he was afterwards
discharged as medically unfit.

This, of course, hurt his pride, but essentially he was greatly
relieved. He made but slow improvement until through the
munificence of Uncle Sam he was given a new start in life through
the Vocational Reeducation Board. Like many other city men, he
has dreamed of the "chicken farm" as the ideal occupation free
from too much work and yet lucrative. This, of course, is a
mistaken notion, but while learning the work he is happy and is
slowly regaining his energy. What time will bring forth no one
can tell, but this is certain: throughout his life he will have
to rely on good habits, carefully adjusted to his energy, in
order to protect himself from the bankruptcy that so easily comes
on him. A philosophy of life which will help to control his
irritability is necessary, and the intelligent of the hypokinetic
irritable acquire the habits and the philosophy necessary for
their welfare.

Any neurologist could cite any number of such cases with varying
traits of character, high intelligence or feeble-minded,
controlled in morals or uncontrolled, happily or unhappily
situated, whose central difficulty is an irritable and easily
exhausted store of energy. They are easily excited and excitement
burns them out; that is the long and short of their situation.
Sex, love, hatred, anger, strain, fear in all its forms,
illness,--all these and many other emotions and happenings may
break them down. Such people, and those who care for them, must
not make the mistake of thinking that rough handling,
strenuosity, will cure what is apparently a fixed character.

There is an irritable, high-energy type--irritable
hyperkinetic--that is well contrasted with the foregoing. This
explosive personality works by fits and starts but does not wear
out, merely, as it were, settles down to his ordinary pace when
he rests up. He is like a six-day bicycle racer who plugs along
but every now and then sprints like mad for a few laps and then
comes back to a pace that would kill the average rider. I shall
not trouble to cite such a case, but I can think of at least one
man of good attainments who is of this explosive hyperkinetic
type. He responds to every demand with a burst of energy, and his
quota of ordinary activities is simply appalling.

Neglecting the further types of energy display for the simple
reason that this quality shades off into every conceivable type
and is also a part of every nature, we turn to the types of
emotional mood display. With these it is necessary to consider
excitability as well, and the most interesting beings are here
our objects of study.

I wish first to emphasize my belief that where there is a great
natural variation in excitability and emotionality in
individuals, there is not nearly so much in races as we think,
and that social heredity is tradition and cultural level plays
the more important role in this. My friend and colleague, Dr. A.
Warren Stearns, has made a study which shows that while the
immigrant Italian is excitable and quick to anger and of
revengeful reactions, his American-born descendent has so far
controlled and changed this type of reaction that he does not
especially figure in police records, in murders or assaults. My
own studies of the second and especially the third generation Jew
show there is an almost complete approach to the "American" type
in emotional display, in what is known as poise. This third
generation Jewish-American has dropped all the mannerisms of
excitability in gesture and voice, and his adherence to good form
includes that attitude of nonchalant humor so characteristic of
the American.

1. The generally excitable, overemotional type. This type is more
common in the Latin, Hebrew and Celtic races. In some respects it
corresponds to the hypokinetic irritable, but it is not
necessarily hypokinetic. The artistic type of person, so called,
is of this group, but is, of course, talented as well. Talent
need not be present, and there are persons of no artistic ability
whatever who show a generalized, excitable-emotional temperament.
All young children show the main traits of this type, and there
is something essentially simple about all these folk, no matter
how civilized or sophisticated they get to be.

A. L., a woman of fifty, belongs to this group. She is a Jewess
and now a widow. All of her life her character and temperament
have been the same, and though her experiences have been varied
she has not in any essential altered. This last is rather
characteristic of the group, for experience has but little effect
on their emotional reactions.

A. L. cries very easily and readily, but her tears are easily
dried and her joy is grotesquely childlike. She is readily
frightened, worries without restraint and finds a melancholy
satisfaction in the worst. At the same time, her fears do not
persist and are easily dissipated by encouragement or good
fortune. She is readily angered and "raises a row" with great
facility and without restraint. For this reason her relatives and
friends become panic-stricken when she becomes angry, for they
know that she does not hesitate to make an embarrassing scene. In
the efforts to conciliate her they are apt to give her her own
way, as a result of which she is the proverbial spoiled child,
capitalizing her weakness.

Our Jewess uses her emotions for effect, which means that she has
become theatrical. Though there is reality in her emotional
display, time and the advantages she has gained have brought
enough finish and restraint to her manifestations to gain the
designation artistic. True, it is a crude artistry, for
intelligence does not sufficiently guide it, and her art is used
sometimes indiscriminately and inopportunely. As she grows older
the value of her tears is less, and she is becoming that prime
nuisance, the elderly scold.

Among the emotional types well recognized by the neurologist is
that known as the cyclothymic. In the individuals of this group
there is a periodicity to mood (rather than to emotions). There
is a definitely pathological trend to the cyclothymic, and in its
most marked form one sees the recurring depressions and
excitement of Manic Depressive Insanity.

Aside from these pathological forms, there are persons who show
curious periodic changes in mood. They become depressed for no
especial reason, are "blue" for day after day and then quickly
return to their normal. Sometimes these blue spells alternate
with periods of exaltation and happiness, but in my experience
this is far less common than periodic blue spells, a kind of
recurrent anhedonia.

L. D. is ordinarily what is known as a vivacious person. Bright,
talkative, keen in her discriminations, she has all her life been
at the mercy of strange alterations in mood, alterations which
come and go without what seems to others adequate reason.

As a child L. D. was sick a great deal. She showed an unusual
susceptibility to infection, and it was not until she was nine
years of age that she attended school regularly. Her illnesses
made it impossible to discipline her, and so she has always been
a bit "spoiled," though her kind and generous nature makes her a
charming person. But more important than the fact that she could
not be disciplined is the lowering of energy that these
sicknesses produced, a lowering marked mainly by a liability to
fatigue and depression.

Let there come a sickness, and this woman's stock of hopeful mood
goes and there results a loss of interest in life, a loss of zest
and joyousness.

A digression,--and a return to the theme of the first chapter of
this book. The dependence of the mental life on bodily structure,
equally true in the both sexes, is exquisitely demonstrated in
woman. In many women there occurs an extraordinary increase of
sex desire just before the menstrual period and in some to the
point where it causes great internal conflict. Others show
moderate depression and even confusion at this time, and to the
majority of women some mood and thought change is taken for
granted. At the menopause mental difficulties to the point of
insanity are witnessed, and in some cases the change is
permanent. Back of mood is the entire organic life of the
organism, and back of the nature of our thoughts and deeds is
mood.

A peculiarity of fatigue is remarkably well shown by this person.
When she is tired or convalescent a depressing thought sticks,
becomes an obsession, a fixed idea, to the plague of her life.
Thus when she was nursing her first baby the night feedings
exhausted her. One night, half asleep and half awake, with the
vigorous little animal pulling away at her breast, she watched
the pulsing fontanelle on the top of the baby's head, and the
thought came to her how dreadfully easy it would be to injure the
brain beneath. Her heart pounced in fear, she almost fainted at
the thought, and yet it "stuck" and came back to her with each
random association. I need not detail how the idea recurred a
dozen times a day and brought the fear that she was going insane.
She stopped nursing the baby at night, got a good rest, and the
idea disappeared. She was "able to shake off" when rested that
which was a hideous obsession when fatigued.

Indeed, one might speak of persons of this type as hypothymic as
well as cyclothymic. The hypothymic are those whose stock of
courage and hope is easily exhausted, who become easily
discouraged. They are borrowers of energy and vigor, they need
sturdier folk around them; often they are said to be sensitive,
and while this is sometimes true, it is more often the case that
they are more affected. That is, two persons may notice the same
thing or suffer the same sickness, but the so-called sensitive
has a reserve of courage and energy that disappears, whereas the
other has enough left in stock so that he does not feel any
change.

The extraordinary complexity of human character is well
illustrated by C. D. She is hypothymic or cyclothymic to the
little affairs of life and to the minor illnesses. Yet when her
family fortunes were greatly imperilled by a financial crisis,
she stood up against the strain far better than did her husband,
a man sturdy and buoyant in most of the affairs of life. His ego
was more concerned with financial fortune than was hers, and
against this ill she was the philosopher and not he.

We may well contrast L. D. with her husband. He belongs to the
sturdy in emotions and morals,--the stable. Dark days and bright
days, sickness and health, fatigue and rest seem to impair his
courage, hope and general cheerfulness of mood but little. He has
a high organic balance and a well-built-up philosophy. I started
to say of him that he is an optimist, but this is not true. He is
cheerful, but he does not sing, "Tra la la, all the things that
are, are good." He says, "There are bad things, but I must carry
on and fight the good fight." His is a philosophy of courage and
endurance, but not of optimistic twaddle. He is too wide-brained
to speak of life as "all good" when he knows of inherited
disease, cruelty, preventable poverty, gross neglect and
unmerited misfortune. Yet he lends hope and comfort to the
afflicted, and he has an unvarying comfort for his cyclothymic
mate.

He has built up his ego around a business, one in which there was
sunk not only his own fortune but that of a host of friends. When
this was so threatened as to seem inevitably lost, his ego was
deeply wounded, he lost courage and hope and then needed the
strength of his wife. This she gave, and when the tide of affairs
turned, his own courage was ready and unimpaired. We are like
trees,--the hard, strong, knotty parts of our fiber are
distributed in irregular fashion, and he who seems strongest has
a weak place somewhere. Attack that, and his resistance, courage
and hope disappear.

While there are the types of mood and emotional make-up, there
are curious monothymic types, people who habitually tend to react
with one emotion or mood.

The fear type. It must again be emphasized that we cannot
separate emotion, mood, instinct, intelligence in our analysis.
And so we shall speak of individuals of this or that type when
what we mean is that they reacted habitually and remarkably in
one direction. Thus with the man F., who has quick imagination,
and whose ability to forecast is inextricably mixed with a
liability to fear. It is true that some do not fear because they
do not foresee, and that placidity and calmness are less often
due to courage than to lack of imagination.

F. feared animals excessively as a child and injury to himself as
a boy, so that he played few rough games. To a large extent his
parents fostered this fear in him by carefully guarding and
watching him, by putting him through that neurasthenic regimen so
brilliantly described by Arthur Guiterman in his story of the
aseptic pup. Yet he had a brother as carefully brought up as
himself who became a rough-and-tumble lad, with as little
likelihood to fear as any boy. So that we may only assume that
F.'s training fostered fear in him; it did not cause it.

At the age of thirteen the fear of death entered F.'s life, the
occasion being the death of an uncle. The mourning, the quick
fleeting sight of the dead man in the black box, the interment of
the once vigorous, joyous man in the earth struck terror into the
heart of the boy. From that time much of his life was controlled
by his struggles with the fear of death, and his history is his
reaction to that fear. At fourteen he astonished his
free-thinking family by becoming a devout Christian, by praying,
attending church regularly and by becoming so moral in his
conduct as to warrant the belief that there was something wrong
with him. Indeed, had a psychiatrist examined him at this time,
there is no doubt he would have diagnosed his condition as a
beginning Dementia Precox. But he was not; he simply was
compensating for his fear of death.

At sixteen he entered an academy where he was forced to go into
athletics. The fear of injury and death plagued him so that he
broke down, but this breakdown did not last long, and he
reentered athletics and did fairly well. Indeed, in order to
break himself of fear, he became outwardly a rather daring
gymnast, hoping that what he had so often read of the sickly and
puny becoming strong and vigorous through training would be true
of him. As soon as he reached a stage in school where compulsory
training was dropped, he discontinued athletics, with much inward
relief. In fact, pride, fear of being considered a coward, was
mainly responsible for his efforts in this direction.

In college he fell under the influence of Omar Khayam and the
epicurean reaction to death. He feverishly entered pleasure and
swung easily from religious fervor to a complete agnosticism. He
became a first-nighter, knew all the chorus girls it was
possible for him to become acquainted with, learned to drink but
never learned to enjoy it. In fact, after each sensual indulgence
his reaction against himself led him to a despair which might
have terminated in suicide were it not that he feared death more
than the reproaches of his conscience. Then he fell under the
influence of a group of men and women in his college town,
philanthropists and social reformers, whose enthusiasm and energy
seemed to him miraculous, and as he grew to know them he realized
with a something like ecstasy and yet governed by intelligence,
that in such work was a compensation for death that might satisfy
both his emotions and his intelligence. Again to the surprise of
his parents, and in the face of their prediction that he would
soon "tire" of this fad, he entered into their activities and
proved himself a devoted worker. Too devoted, for now and then he
needs medical attention, and it was in one of these
"neurasthenic" periods that I met him. I learned that the spur
that kept him going, that made him energetic, was the fear that
death would overtake him before he achieved anything worth while;
that he hated to die and was appalled by the thought of death,
but that he could forget all this in work of a socially useful
kind.

F. might almost stand for mankind in his reactions to death. He
seemed to me almost too good to be true as a demonstration of a
pet thesis of mine, namely, that the fear of death is behind an
enormous amount of men's deeds and beliefs. His reaction was of
the compensatory type, where the fear arouses counter-emotions,
counter-activities. F.'s is a noble response to fear, just as the
cowardly reaction is the ignoble response.

I shall not depict the coward. There are some in whose lives the
fear of death, injury, illness or loss is in constant operation
to prevent activity, to lower energy and effort. One finds the
coward very commonly in the clinics for nervous diseases, and in
some cases the formidable term of psychasthenia is merely
camouflage for the more direct English word. There is a type of
the timid, who will not stand up for their rights, who receive
meekly, as if it were their due, the buffets of fortune. This
type is well exemplified in F. B., who passes through life
cheated by every rogue and walked on by any strong-willed person
that comes along. As a boy he was bullied by nearly all his
playmates, did the chores, was selected for the "booh" parts in
games and never dared resent it, though he was fully conscious
that he was being put upon. When he went to work in a factory he
was the one selected for all those practical jokes in which minor
cruelty manifests itself. His parents also bullied him, so that
he was compelled to turn over most of his earnings to them and
was allowed to keep so little that he was shabby, half-starved
and without any of the luxuries for which even his timid soul
longed.

F. B. was mortally afraid of girls; they seemed to him to be
terrible and beautiful creatures, very scornful and
awe-inspiring. They made him feel inferior in a way that sent him
edging from their presence, and though he sometimes surged with
passion he avoided any contact with them.

As a good workman he received good pay, for he chanced, by the
merest luck, to fall into the hands of a kind employer, who
profited by his kindness, for F. B. gave more than a dollar of
value for each dollar he received. He had caught cold a day or two
ago, and the rain yesterday having made it worse, he was
become very deaf.

At breakfast he said, he would have given a good deal rather than
not have lain in that bed. I owned he was the lucky man; and
observed, that without doubt it had been contrived between Mrs
Macdonald and him. She seemed to acquiesce; adding, 'You know
young BUCKS are always favourites of the ladies.'

He spoke of Prince Charles being here, and asked Mrs Macdonald,
'WHO was with him? We were told, madam, in England, there was one
Miss Flora Macdonald with him.' She said, 'they were very right';
and perceiving Dr Johnson's curiosity, though he had delicacy
enough not to question her, very obligingly entertained him with
a recital of the particulars which she herself knew of that escape,
which does so much honour to the humanity, fidelity, and
generosity, of the Highlanders. Dr Johnson listened to her
with placid attention, and said, 'All this should be written
down.'
From what she told us, and from what I was told by others personally
concerned, and from a paper of information which Rasay was so good
as to send me, at my desire, I have compiled the following abstract,
which, as it contains some curious anecdotes, will, I imagine not
be uninteresting to my readers, and even, perhaps, be of some use
to future historians.

Prince Charles Edward, after the battle of Culloden, was
conveyed to what is called the Long Island, where he lay for
some time concealed.
But intelligence having been obtained where he was, and a
number of troops having come in quest of him, it became absolutely
necessary for him to quit that country without delay. Miss Flora
Macdonald, then a young lady, animated by what she thought the
sacred principle of loyalty, offered, with the magnanimity of a
heroine, to accompany him in an open boat to Sky, though the coast
they were to quit was guarded by ships.

He dressed himself in women's clothes, and passed as her supposed
maid, by the name of Betty Bourke, an Irish girl. They
got off undiscovered, though several shots were fired to
bring them to, and landed at Mugstot, the seat of Sir Alexander
Macdonald. Sir Alexander was then at Fort Augustus, with the
Duke of Cumberland; but his lady was at home. Prince Charles took
his post upon a hill near the house. Flora Macdonald waited
on Lady Margaret, and acquainted her of the enterprise in which
she was engaged.

Her ladyship, whose active benevolence was ever seconded by superior
talents, shewed a perfect presence of mind, and readiness of
invention, and at once settled that Prince Charles should be
conducted to old Rasay, who was himself concealed with some
select friends. The plan was instantly communicated to
Kingsburgh, who was dispatched to the hill to inform the Wanderer,
and carry him refreshments. When Kingsburgh approached, he started
up, and advanced, holding a large knotted stick, and in
appearance ready to knock him down, till he said, 'I am Macdonald
of Kingsburgh, come to serve your highness.' The Wanderer
answered, 'It is well,' and was satisfied with the plan.

Flora Macdonald dined with Lady Margaret, at whose table there sat
an officer of the army, stationed here with a party of soldiers,
to watch for Prince Charles in case of his flying to the isle of Sky.

She afterwards often laughed in good humour with this gentleman,
on her having so well deceived him.

After dinner, Flora Macdonald on horseback, and her supposed maid,
and Kingsburgh, with a servant carrying some linen, all on
foot, proceeded towards that gentleman's house. Upon the road was
a small rivulet which they were obliged to cross. The
Wanderer, forgetting his assumed sex, that his clothes might
not be wet, held them up a great deal too high. Kingsburgh mentioned
this to him, observing, it might make a discovery. He said he
would be more careful for the future. He was as good as his word;
for the next brook they crossed, he did not hold up his clothes
at all, but let them float upon the water. He was very awkward
in his female dress. His size was so large, and his strides so
great, that some women whom they met reported that they had seen
a very big woman, who looked like a man in woman's clothes, and
that perhaps it was (as they expressed themselves) the PRINCE, after
whom so much search was making.

At Kingsburgh he met with a most cordial reception; seemed gay at
supper, and after it indulged himself in a cheerful glass with
his worthy host. As he had not had his clothes off for a long
time, the comfort of a good bed was highly relished by him,
and he slept soundly till next day at one o'clock.

The mistress of Corrichatachin told me, that in the forenoon she
went into her father's room, who was also in bed, and suggested
to him her apprehensions that a party of the military might come
up, and that his guest had better not remain here too long.

Her father said, 'Let the poor man repose himself after his
fatigues; and as for me, I care not, though they take off this
old grey head ten or eleven years sooner than I should
die in the course of nature.' He then wrapped himself in
the bed-clothes, and again fell fast asleep.

On the afternoon of that day, the Wanderer, still in the same
dress, set out for Portree, with Flora Macdonald and a man servant.
His shoes being very bad, Kingsburgh provided him with a new
pair, and taking up the old ones, said, 'I will faithfully
keep them till you are safely settled at St James's. I will
then introduce myself by shaking them at you, to put you in mind
of your night's entertainment and protection under my roof.'

He smiled, and said, 'Be as good as your word!' Kingsburgh kept
the shoes as long as he lived. After his death, a zealous Jacobite
gentleman gave twenty guineas for them. Old Mrs Macdonald, after
her guest had left the house, took the sheets in which he had
lain, folded them carefully, and charged her daughter that they
should be kept unwashed, and that, when she died, her body should
be wrapped in them as a winding sheet.

Her will was religiously observed.

Upon the road to Portree, Prince Charles changed his dress, and
put on man's clothes again; a tartan short coat and a waistcoat,
with philibeg and short hose, a plaid, and a wig and bonnet.

Mr Donald M'Donald, called Donald Roy, had been sent express to the
present Rasay, then the young laird, who was at that time
at his sister's house, about three miles from Portree, attending
his brother, Dr Macleod, who was recovering of a wound he had
received at the battle of Culloden.

Mr M'Donald communicated to young Rasay the plan of conveying the
Wanderer to where old Rasay was; but was told that old Rasay had
fled to Knoidart, a part of Glengary's estate. There was then a
dilemma what should be done. Donald Roy proposed that he should
conduct the Wanderer to the main land; but young Rasay thought
it too dangerous at that time, and said it would be better to
conceal him in the island of Rasay, till old Rasay could be
informed where he was, and give his advice what was best. But the
difficulty was, how to get him to Rasay. They could not trust a
Portree crew, and all the Rasay boats had been destroyed, or carried
off by the military except two belonging to Malcolm M'Leod,
which he had concealed somewhere.

Dr Macleod being informed of this difficulty, said he would risk
his life once more for Prince Charles; and it having occurred,
that there was a little boat upon a fresh water lake in the
neighbourhood, young Rasay and Dr Macleod, with the help of some
women, brought it to the sea, by extraordinary exertion, across
a Highland mile of land, one half of which was bog, and
the other a steep precipice.

These gallant brothers, with the assistance of one little boy,
rowed the small boat to Rasay, where they were to endeavour to
find Captain M'Leod, as Malcolm was then called, and get one of
his good boats, with which they might return to Portree, and
receive the Wanderer; or, in case of not finding him, they were
to make the small boat serve, though the danger was
considerable.

Fortunately, on their first landing, they found their cousin
Malcolm, who, with the utmost alacrity, got ready one of his
boats, with two strong men. John M'Kenzie, and Donald M'Friar.
Malcolm, being the oldest man, and most cautious, said,
that as young Rasay had not hitherto appeared in the unfortunate
business, he ought not to run any risk; but that Dr Macleod and
himself, who were already publickly engaged, should go on this
expedition.

Young Rasay answered, with an oath, that he would go, at the risk
of his life and fortune. 'In God's name then,' said Malcolm,
'let us proceed.' The two boatmen, however, now stopped short,
till they should be informed of their destination; and M'Kenzie
declared he would not move an oar till he knew where they were
going. Upon which they were both sworn to secrecy; and the
business being imparted to them, they were eager to put off to
sea without loss of time. The boat soon landed about half a mile
from the inn at Portree.

All this was negotiated before the Wanderer got forward to Portree.

Malcolm M'Leod, and M'Friar, were dispatched to look for him. In
a short time he appeared, and went into the publick house.
Here Donald Roy, whom he had seen at Mugstot, received him, and
informed him of what had been concerted. He wanted silver for a
guinea, but the landlord had only thirteen shillings. He was
going to accept of this for his guinea; but Donald Roy very
judiciously observed, that it would discover him to be some great
man; so he desisted. He slipped out of the house,
leaving his fair protectress, whom he never again saw; and Malcolm
Macleod was presented to him by Donald Roy, as a captain in his
army. Young Rasay and Dr Macleod had waited, in impatient anxiety,
in the boat. When he came, their names were announced to him.

He would not permit the usual ceremonies of respect, but saluted
them as his equals.

Donald Roy staid in Sky, to be in readiness to get intelligence,
and give an alarm in case the troops should discover the
retreat to Rasay; and Prince Charles was then conveyed
in a boat to that island in the night. He slept a little upon
the passage, and they landed about day-break. There was some
difficulty in accommodating him with a lodging, as almost all
the houses in the island had been burnt by soldiery. They repaired
to a little hut, which some shepherds had lately built, and having
prepared it as well as they could, and made a bed of heath for
the stranger, they kindled a fire, and partook of some provisions
which had been sent with him from Kingsburgh.

It was observed, that he would not taste wheat-bread, or brandy,
while oat-bread and whisky lasted; 'for these,' said he, 'are
my own country's bread and drink'. This was very engaging to the
Highlanders.

Young Rasay being the only person of the company that durst
appear with safety, he went in quest of something fresh for
them to eat; but though he was amidst his own cows, sheep, and
goats, he could not venture to take any of them for fear of a
discovery, but was obliged to supply himself by stealth.

He therefore caught a kid, and brought it to the hut in his
plaid, and it was killed and drest, and furnished them a meal
which they relished much. The distressed Wanderer, whose health
was now a good deal impaired by hunger, fatigue, and watching,
slept a long time, but seemed to be frequently disturbed. Malcolm
told me he would start from broken slumbers, and speak to himself
in different languages, French, Italian, and English. I must
however acknowledge, that it is highly probable that my worthy
friend Malcolm did not know precisely the difference between
French and Italian.

One of his expressions in English was, 'O God! Poor Scotland!'

While they were in the hut, M'Kenzie and M'Friar, the two boatmen,
were placed as sentinels upon different eminences; and one day
an incident happened, which must not be omitted. There was a
man wandering about the island, selling tobacco. Nobody knew him,
and he was suspected to be a spy. M'Kenzie came running to the
hut, and told that this suspected person was approaching. Upon
which the three gentlemen, young Rasay, Dr Macleod, and Malcom,
held a council of war upon him, and were unanimously of opinion
that he should instantly be put to death. Prince
Charles, at once assuming a grave and even severe countenance,
said, 'God forbid that we should take away a man's life, who may
be innocent, while we can preserve our own.'

The gentlemen however persisted in their resolution, while he as
strenuously continued to take the merciful side.

John M'Kenzie, who sat watching at the door of the hut, and
overheard the debate, said in Erse, 'Well, well; he must be
shot. You are the king, but we are the parliament, and will do
what we choose.' Prince Charles, seeing the gentlemen smile, asked
what the man had said, and being told it in English,
he observed that he was a clever fellow, and, notwithstanding
the perilous situation in which he was, laughed loud and heartily.
Luckily the unknown person did not perceive that there were
people in the hut, at least did not come to it, but walked on
past it, unknowing of his risk. It was afterwards found out
that he was one of the Highland army, who was himself in danger.
Had he come to them, they were resolved to dispatch him; for,
as Malcolm said to me, 'We could not keep him with us, and we durst
not let him go. In such a situation, I would have shot my
brother, if I had not been sure of him.' John M'Kenzie was at
Rasay's house, when we were there.[Footnote: This old Scottish
Member of Parliament, I am Informed, is still living (1785).] About
eighteen years before, he hurt one of his legs when dancing, and
being obliged to have it cut off, he now was going about with a
wooden leg. The story of his being a Member of Parliament is not
yet forgotten.

I took him out a little way from the house, gave him a shilling
to drink Rasay's health, and led him into a detail of the
particulars which I have just related. With less foundation, some
writers have traced the idea of a parliament, and of the
British constitution, in rude and early times. I was curious to
know if he had really heard, or understood, any thing of that
subject, which, had he been a greater man, would probably have
been eagerly maintained. 'Why, John,' said I, 'did you think the
king should be controuled by a parliament?' He answered, 'I
thought, sir, there were many voices against one.'
The conversation then turning on the times, the Wanderer
said, that to be sure, the life he had led of late was a very hard
one; but he would rather live in the way he now did, for ten years,
than fall into the hands of his enemies.

The gentlemen asked him, what he thought his enemies would do with
him, should he have the misfortune to fall into their hands. He
said, he did not believe they would dare to take his life
publickly, but he dreaded being privately destroyed by poison
or assassination. He was very particular in his inquiries about
the wound which Dr Macleod had received at the battle of
Culloden, from a ball which entered at one shoulder, and went
cross to the other. The doctor happened still to have on the
coat which he wore on that occasion. He mentioned, that he
himself had his horse shot under him at Culloden; that the ball
hit the horse about two inches from his knee, and made him so unruly
that he was obliged to change him for another.

He threw out some reflections on the conduct of the disastrous
affair at Culloden, saying, however, that perhaps it was rash
in him to do so. I am now convinced that his suspicions
were groundless; for I have had a good deal of conversation
upon the subject with my very worthy and ingenious friend, Mr
Andrew Lumisden, who was under secretary to Prince Charles, and
afterwards principal secretary to his father at Rome, who, he assured
me, was perfectly satisfied both of the abilities and honour of the
generals who commanded the highland army on that occasion.

Mr Lumisden has written an account of the three battles in 1745-6,
at once accurate and classical. Talking of the different Highland
corps, the gentlemen who were present wished to have his opinion
which were the best soldiers.

He said, he did not like comparisons among those corps: they
were all best.

He told his conductors, he did not think it advisable to remain
long in any one place; and that he expected a French ship to
come for him to Lochbroom, among the Mackenzies. It then
was proposed to carry him in one of Malcolm's boats to
Lochbroom, though the distance was fifteen leagues coastwise. But
he thought this would be too dangerous, and desired that at any
rate, they might first endeavour to obtain intelligence.

Upon which young Rasay wrote to his friend, Mr M'Kenzie of
Applecross, but received an answer, that there was no appearance
of any French ship.

It was therefore resolved that they should return to Sky, which
they did, and landed in Strath, where they reposed in a cow-house
belonging to Mr Niccolson of Scorbreck. The sea was very
rough, and the boat took in a good deal of water. The Wanderer
asked if there was danger, as he was not used to such a
vessel. Upon being told there was not, he sung an Erse song
with much vivacity. He had by this time acquired a good deal of
the Erse language.

Young Rasay was now dispatched to where Donald Roy was, that
they might get all the intelligence they could; and the
Wanderer, with much earnestness, charged Dr Macleod to have a boat
ready, at a certain place about seven miles off, as he said he
intended it should carry him upon a matter of great consequence;
and gave the doctor a case, containing a silver spoon, knife, and
fork, saying, 'keep you that till I see you', which the doctor
understood to be two days from that time.

But all these orders were only blinds; for he had another plan
in his head, but wisely thought it safest to trust his secrets
to no more persons than was absolutely necessary. Having then
desired Malcolm to walk with him a little way from the house, he
soon opened his mind, saying, 'I deliver myself to you. Conduct
me to the Laird of M'Kinnon's country.' Malcolm objected that it
was very dangerous, as so many parties of soldiers were in motion.
He answered. 'There is nothing now to be done without danger.'
He then said, that Malcolm must be the master, and he the
servant; so he took the bag, in which his linen was put up, and
carried it on his shoulder; and observing that his waistcoat, which
was of scarlet tartan, with a gold twist button, was finer than
Malcolm's, which was of a plain ordinary tartan, he put on Malcolm's
waistcoat, and gave him his; remarking at the same time, that it
did not look well that the servant should be better dressed than
the master.

Malcolm, though an excellent walker, found himself excelled by
Prince Charles, who told him, he should not much mind the parties
that were looking for him, were he once but a musquet shot from
them; but that he was somewhat afraid of the highlanders who
were against him. He was well used to walking in Italy, in pursuit
of game; and he was even now so keen a sportsman, that, having
observed some partridges, he was going to take a shot; but Malcolm
cautioned him against it, observing that the firing might be heard
by the tenders who were hovering upon the coast.

As they proceeded through the mountains, taking many a circuit
to avoid any houses, Malcolm, to try his resolution, asked him
what they should do, should they fall in with a party of soldiers:
he answered.
'Fight to be sure!' Having asked Malcolm if he should be known in
his present dress, and Malcolm having replied he would, he said,
'Then I'll blacken my face with powder.'

'That,' said Malcolm, 'would discover you at once.'
'Then,' said he, 'I must be put in the greatest dishabille possible.'
So he pulled off his wig, tied a handkerchief round his head,
and put his night-cap over it, tore the ruffles from his shirt,
took the buckles out of his shoes, and made Malcolm fasten them
with strings; but still Malcolm thought he would be known. 'I
have so odd a face,' said he, 'that no man ever saw me but
he would know me again.'
Now
and then he became harassed by a feeling of unreality, by a
questioning skepticism that nullified happiness, and he felt
himself divided by his intellect. These he shook off by dropping
his work, by hunting, fishing and accepting simple goals of
activity. Later on he married, and became a scholar of some note.
I think he now relishes life as well as any really thoughtful man
of middle life can.

There is a personality type, the emotional introspective, whose
interest in life is directed toward their own sensations and
emotions. They do not view people or things as having a value in
themselves and for themselves; they deliberately view them as
sources of a personal pleasurable sensation. I do not mean the
crude egoist who asks of anything or anybody, "What good is it
(or he) for me?" but I mean that connoisseur in emotions,
casually blase and bored, who seeks new sensations. This is an
introspective deviation of a serious kind, for the connoisseur in
emotions rarely is happy and usually is most deeply miserable.
Bourget in his remarkable psychological novel, "A Love Crime,"
has admirably drawn one of these characters. The exquisite
Armand, seeking pleasure constantly, is divided into the
sensualist who seduces and ruins and the introspectionist who
watches the proceeding with disgust and disillusion. It is not an
outraged conscience that is at work but the inability to feel
without analyzing the feeling "Ah, for a single passion that
might apply my entire sensibility to another being, like wet
paper against a window pane." This is the eternal tragedy of
sophistication,--that there results an anhedonia in large part
manifested by a restless introspection. The mind is drawn away
from the outside world, and everything is seen out of proportion.

The hypochondriac directs his attention to his health and is in
part a monothymic of the fear type. Moliere's "Le Malade
Imaginaire" is a classical study of this person, and I do not,
presume to better it. Modern popularizing of disease has
distinctly increased the numbers of the hypochondriacs, or at any
rate has made their fears more scientific. Brain tumor, gastric
ulcer, appendicitis, tuberculosis, heart disease, cancer,
syphilis,--often have I seen a hypochondriac run the gamut of
all these deadly diseases and still retain his health. The faddy
habits they form are the sustenance of those who start the varied
forms of vegetarianism, chewing cults, fresh-air fiends,
wet-grass fanatics, back-to-nature societies, and the mild
lunacies of our (and every) age.

One such hypochondriac, J., after suffering from every disease in
the advertising pages of the daily newspapers, developed a system
of habits that finally became a disease in itself. He rose at
6.30 each morning, stood naked in the middle of the room, took
six deep breaths, rolled around on the floor and kicked his arms
and legs about for fifteen minutes, took a drink of cold water,
had a shower bath and a rub-down, shaved, attended to "certain
bodily functions" (his term, not mine), ate a breakfast
consisting of gluten bread, two slices, one and one-half glasses
of milk, a soft-boiled egg (three and one-half minutes) and an
orange; walked to work, taking exactly twenty minutes to do it;
opened the windows wide in his office (fighting with the other
clerks who preferred comfort to fresh air), ate a health luncheon
at noon consisting of Postum, nuts, health bread, and two squares
of milk chocolate; walked home at six, taking exactly 20 minutes
to do it; washed, lay on the couch fifteen minutes with mind
fixed on infinity (a Hindoo trick, so he heard), ate dinner,
which never varied much from rice, cream, potatoes, milk and,
heritage of saner days, a small piece of pie! All the day he
watched each pain and ache, noted whether he belched or spit more
than usual, and at night went to sleep at 10.30. Needless to say
he had no friends, was known as "that nut" and really broke down
from too arduous an introspective existence.

The term self-denial has been used from earliest times to
indicate what we have called inhibition. But self-denial is
fundamentally a wrong term, since it implies that the self is
that which lusts and shirks, and that which controls desire and
holds the individual to a consistent and ethical line of conduct
is not the self. In fact, the self is based on inhibition and
control, and when there is failure in these regards there is
self-failure.

Interesting is the under-inhibited person. I mean by this term
the one who consistently and in most relationship shows an
inability to control the primitive instincts, impulses and
desires. J. F. may stand as a type that becomes the "black sheep"
and in many cases the "criminal." He comes of what is known as a
"good family," which in his case means that the parents are
well-to-do, of good reputation and rather above the average in
intelligence. The brothers and sisters have all done well, are
settled in their ways and are not to be distinguished from the
people of their social set in manners or morals.

It was impossible to discipline J. As a very young child he
resisted his mother's efforts to train him into tidiness or
restraint. He stole whatever he desired, and though he was
alternately punished and pleaded with, though he seemed to desire
to please his parents, he continued to steal whenever there was
opportunity. At six he entered a neighbor's house, and while
there took a purse that was lying on a table, rifled it of its
contents and disappeared for nearly a day, when he was found in a
down-town district, having gorged himself with candy and cake.
From then on his peculations increased, and his conduct became
the scandal of his family, for he stole even from the maids
employed in the house, as well as from guests. In each case the
stealing was apparently motivated to give a good time to himself
and also to certain chums he made here and there in the city. He
would lie to evade punishment, but finally would yield, confess
his guilt, express deepest repentance and accept his punishment
with the sincerity of one fully conscious of deserving it.

In school he did poorly. He was bright enough. In fact, he was
somewhat above the average in memory and comprehension and may be
described as keen, but it was difficult for him to keep his
attention consistently on any subject, and the discipline of
school irked him. He ran away several times to avoid school, and
each time, until he was about fourteen, came back after a few
days,--bedraggled, hungry and repentant. The freedom of the
streets appealed to him as offering a life varied enough to suit
his nature, and with excitement and adventure always in the air.
So he mingled with all kinds of boys and men and at the age of
fourteen shocked his parents by being arrested as one of a gang
that was engaged in robbing drunken men in the slum quarters of
the city. It took all kinds of influence to get him released on
probation, but this was accomplished and then the boy disappeared
from home.

He was gone three years and despite all search had completely
disappeared. His people had given up all hope of seeing him again
(although certain members of his family were not at all saddened
by the prospect) when they received a communication from the
police of a distant city with a photograph of the boy, asking if
it was true that he was their son. It seems that J. had drifted
from place to place, now working as newsboy, stable hand, errand
boy, messenger, theater-usher, until he had reached this city.
There he was wandering on the streets, hungry and ragged, when a
philanthropic old gentleman noticed him. J. has the good fortune
to be very innocent looking, and no matter what his crimes, his
face might belong to a cherub. A friend once stated that if J.
appeared at Heaven's gate, St. Peter would surely take him to be
an angel come back from a stroll and let him in. The
philanthropist stopped, the boy and inquired into his history. J.
told him a very affecting story of being an orphan whom a cruel
guardian had robbed of his heritage and exaggerated his
sufferings until the indignant old fellow threatened to have the
police prosecute his betrayer. With a show of great magnanimity,
J. refused to disclose his real name, and the philanthropist took
him home. He had him clothed and fed, and then, taken by the
boy's engaging manners and bright ways, decided to educate and
adopt him. He was dissuaded from the latter by a friend, but he
sent J. to a private school of good grade. To the surprise of the
old man, J. was continually getting into mischief, and finally he
was accused of stealing. Unable to believe the school
authorities, the old gentleman took the boy home and quizzed him.
He gave an unsatisfactory account of himself and that night
disappeared with a considerable sum of money. The police were
notified, and a week later he was found in a house of the
type--so euphemistically called--of "ill fame." There he was
spending the money lavishly on the inmates and was indulging his
every desire. One of the women, a police stool-pigeon, identified
him as the boy who was wanted by the law, and he was arrested.

Despite the efforts of the parents and the philanthropist, the
boy was given a prison sentence and is still serving it.
Characteristic of this group of personalities are these traits:
(1) an impatience with the arduous, an incapacity or
unwillingness to wait for results in the ordinary way; (2) a
decided dread of monotony, a longing for excitement; (3) an
inability to form permanent purposes and to inhibit the
distracting desires; (4) a desire to win others' good opinion and
sympathy,--therefore he always lavished his money on those whom
that kind of "good fellowship" wins and told pathetic stories to
those whose sentimentality made them easy victims; (5) a weak
kind of egoism, seeking easy ways to pleasure and position,
restless under discipline, always repentant after wrong-doing,
fluent in speech but lacking the courage to face the difficulties
of life.

This under-inhibited type may suddenly reform and apparently
entirely emerge from difficulties. I have in mind a conspicuous
case, a young woman now happily married and the mother of fine
children. When she was thirteen or fourteen the petty pilferings
of her childhood took on a serious character. She began to steal
from the person of strangers and from the homes of friends. She
romanced in the most convincing fashion, told strangers the most
remarkable stories, usually of such a nature as to make her
interesting and an object of sympathy, but which tended to
blacken the reputation of her family. She lost place after place
at work, was sent to a hospital to become a nurse and demoralized
her associates by her lies and her thefts. She was a very sweet
girl in every other way, kindly, generous, self-sacrificing,
studious even, and her character-contradiction made people
reluctant to believe she was not insane. She was discharged from
the hospital, stayed at home for a few months,--and then came the
miracle. She obtained a place in a large business house and
worked there for seven years or up till the time of her marriage.
She was steadily promoted and was accounted the most reliable and
honest employee of the establishment. She handled money and
goods, was absolutely truthful and her earnest efficiency was
noteworthy. Her private life was in complete harmony with this
business career. She helped her parents, who are poor, dressed
modestly, studied nights and yet showed the same fondness for
dancing and good times that the normal girl does. She met a
promising young business man who fell immediately in love with
this demure looking young woman, and they were later married.
Once I asked her how the reform came about. "I don't know
myself," she answered frankly. "I never was happy--when I was the
other way. I always vowed reform, but when there was money around
I'd think and think about it until it was mine. Then I'd spend it
in a silly way to get rid of it fast. I craved good things, and
you know how poor we were. Then I lied just to have people like
me and pity me, even though I called myself a fool while doing
it. Often, often I tried to reform and for a week or two would be
real good. Then perhaps I'd see some money, and I'd try to think
of something else. But that money would come to my mind, and I'd
get hot and dizzy thinking about it. Perhaps I'd say, 'I'll just
look at it,' and finally I'd go and take it--and feel so relieved
and spend it. After I left the hospital it seemed to me that I
could never smile again. I cried all night long; I wanted to die.
I could see one girl who thought I was so good and nice, and her
face as she looked at me when I left! Her eyes were wide open,
and her mouth was so stern, and she looked as if she wanted to
speak but she turned around and walked away. One day I woke up
after a restless night at home, and it seemed to me that I had
strength, that something had turned around in my nature, and
since that day I have never even wanted to steal. I haven't had
to try to be good; it came as natural as eating and sleeping."

The sexually under-inhibited are those whose sex control is
deficient. This may be either from over-passionate nature, bad
example, deficient mentality, vanity and desire for good times,
as in certain girls, etc. To discuss these types would be to
write another book, and so I forbear. But this I wish to
emphasize: that neither age, sex protestation of indifference and
control, occupation or social status, alters the fact that the
history of the sex feelings, impulses and struggles is essential
to a knowledge of character. Without detailing sex types, these
are some that are important.

1. The uninhibited impulsive, passionate (the bulk of the
prostitutes).

2. The controlled, passionate. Very common.

3. The frigid. Not so rare as believed.

4. The extremely passionate (nymphomania, satyriasis). Rare.
Always in trouble.

5. The sensualist, a deliberate seeker of sex pleasure, often
indulging in perversion. Common type.

6. The perverted types,--autoerotic (masturbator), homosexual,
masochists, sadists, fetishist, etc. More common than the
ordinary person dreams.

7. The periodic, to whom sex life is incidental to certain
periods and situations. Common among women, less common among
men.

8. The sublimators, whose sexual activity has somehow been
harnessed to other great activities. Fairly frequent among these
who either through choice or necessity are to remain continent.

9. Having purchased the Waterman's Arms at Bermondsey, with some
adjoining waste land, he transformed the place into a tea-garden.
Shortly afterwards a chalybeate spring was discovered in the
grounds, an event which obliterated the name of the Waterman's Arms
in favour of the Bermondsey Spa Gardens.

The ground was duly laid out in pleasant walks, with
the usual accompaniments of leafy arbours and other quiet nooks
for tea-parties. The next step was to secure a music license,
fit up an orchestra, adorn the trees with coloured lamps,
organize occasional displays of fireworks, and challenge comparison
with Vauxhall if only on a small scale.

One of the attractions reserved for special occasion was a
scenic representation of the Siege of Gibraltar, in which fireworks,
transparencies, and bomb shells played a prominent part. Keyse
himself was responsible for the device by which the idea was
carried out, and the performance was so realistic that it was
declared to give "a very strong idea of the real Siege."
Hearty as were the plaudits bestowed upon the Siege of Gibraltar,
there is not much risk in hazarding the opinion that Keyse took
more pride in the picture-gallery of his own paintings than in
any other feature of his establishment. The canvases included
representations of all kinds of still life, and, thanks to the
recording pen of J.
T. Smith, that enthusiastic lover of old London, it is still
possible to make the round of the gallery in the company of
the artist-proprietor. Mr. Smith visited the gardens when public
patronage had declined to a low ebb, so that he had the gallery
all to himself, as he imagined. "Stepping back to study the
picture of the 'Greenstall,' 'I ask your pardon,' said I, for I
had trodden on some one's toes.

'Sir, it is granted,' replied a little, thick-set man with a
round face, arch looks, and close-curled wig, surmounted by a
small three-cornered hat put very knowingly on one side, not unlike
Hogarth's head in his print of the 'Gates of Calais.' 'You are an
artist, I presume; I noticed you from the end of the gallery,
when you first stepped back to look at my best picture. I
painted all the objects in this room from nature and still
life.' 'Your Green-grocer's Shop,' said I, 'is inimitable;
the drops of water on that savoy appear as if they had just
fallen from the element. Van Huysun could not have pencilled
them with greater delicacy.' 'What do you think,' said he, 'of
my Butcher's Shop?' 'Your pluck is bleeding fresh, and your
sweetbread is in a clean plate.' 'How do you like my bull's eye?'
'Why, it would be a most excellent one for Adams or Dolland to
lecture upon. Your knuckle of veal is the finest I ever saw.'
'It's young meat,' replied he; 'any one who is a judge of meat can
tell that from the blueness of its bone.'

'What a beautiful white you have used on the fat of that Southdown
leg! or is it Bagshot?' 'Yes,' said he, 'my solitary visitor,
it is Bagshot:
and as for my white, that is the best Nottingham, which you
or any artist can procure at Stone and Puncheon's, Bishopsgate
Street Within.'But his contributions spread kindly feeling
and the notion of the brotherhood of man.

The over-inhibited, those whose every impulse and desire is
subjected to a scrutiny and a blocking, often come to the
attention of the neuropsychiatrist. But there are many "normal"
people who fall into this group, and whose conduct throughout
life is marked by a scrupulosity that is painful to behold. The
over-inhibition may take specific directions, as in the thrifty
who check their desires in the wish to save money, or the
industrious who hold up their pleasures and recreations in the
fear that they are wasting time. A sub-group of the
over-inhibited I call the over-conscientious, and it is one of
these whose history is epitomized here.

K. has always had "ingrowing scruples," as his exasperated mother
once said. As a small child he never obeyed the impulse to take a
piece of cake without looking around to see if his mother and
father approved. He would not play unreservedly, in the
whole-hearted impulsive way of children, but always held back in
his enjoyment as if he feared that perhaps he was not doing just
right. When he started to go to school his fear of doing the
wrong thing made him appear rather slow, though in reality he was
bright. The other children called him a "sissy," mistaking his
conscientiousness for cowardice. This grieved him very much, and
his father undertook to educate him in "rough" ways, in fighting
and wrestling. He succeeded in this to the extent that K. learned
to fight when he believed that he was being wronged, but he never
seemed to learn the aggressiveness necessary to get even a fair
share of his rights. His mother, a similar type, rather
encouraged him in this virtue, much to the disgust of the father.

Not to spend too long a time over K.'s history, we may pass
quickly over his school years until he entered college. He was a
"grind" if there ever was one, studying day and night. He had
developed well physically and because of his hard work stood near
the top of his class. He took no "pleasures" of any kind,--that
is, he played no cards, went to no dances, never took in a show
and of course was strictly moral. It seems that the main factor
that held him back was the notion he had imbibed early in his
career that pleasure itself was somehow not worthy, that an ideal
of work made a sort of sin of wasting time. After having been shut
up so long in Col, the sight of such an assemblage of moving
habitations, containing such a variety of people, engaged in
different pursuits, gave me much gaiety of spirit. When we
had landed, Dr Johnson said, 'Boswell is now all alive. He is like
Antaeus; he gets new vigour whenever he touches the ground.' I
went to the top of a hill fronting the harbour, from whence I had
a good view of it. We had here a tolerable inn. Dr Johnson had
owned to me this morning, that he was out of humour. Indeed, he
shewed it a good deal in the ship; for when I was expressing my
joy on the prospect of our landing in Mull, he said, he had
no joy, when he recollected that it would be five days before
he should get to the main land. I was afraid he would now
take a sudden resolution to give up seeing Icolmkill. A dish of
tea, and some good bread and butter, did him service, and his bad
humour went off. I told him, that I was diverted to hear all the
people whom we had visited in our tour, say, 'Honest man!

he's pleased with every thing; he's always content!' 'Little do
they know,' said I. He laughed, and said, 'You rogue!'
We sent to hire horses to carry us across the island of Mull to
the shore opposite to Inchkenneth, the residence of Sir Allan
M'Lean, uncle to young Col, and chief of the M'Leans, to whose
house we intended to go the next day. Our friend Col
went to visit his aunt, the wife of Dr Alexander M'Lean, a
physician, who lives about a mile from Tobermorie.

Dr Johnson and I sat by ourselves at the inn, and talked a good
deal.

I told him, that I had found, in Leandro Alberti's Description
of Italy, much of what Addison has given us in his Remarks.
He said, "The collection of passages from the Classicks has been
made by another Italian: it is, however, impossible to detect
a man as a plagiary in such a case, because all who set about
making such a collection must find the same passages; but, if you
find the same applications in another book, then Addison's learning
in his Remarks tumbles down. It is a tedious book; and, if it
were not attached to Addison's previous reputation, one would
not think much of it. Had he written nothing else, his name would
not have lived. Addison does not seem to have gone deep in
Italian literature: he shews nothing of it in his subsequent
writings. He shews a great deal of French learning.

There is, perhaps, more knowledge circulated in the French language
than in any other. There is more original knowledge in English.'
'But the French,' said I, 'have the art of accommodating literature.'
JOHNSON.
'Yes, sir; we have no such book as Moreri's Dictionary.'"
BOSWELL.
"Their Ana are good.'

JOHNSON. 'A few of them are good; but we have one book of
that kind better than any of them; Selden's Table-talk. As to
original literature, the French have a couple of tragick poets who
go round the world, Racine and Corneille, and one comick poet,
Moliere.'

--BOSWELL. 'They have Fenelon.' JOHNSON. 'Why, sir, Telemachus is
pretty well.' BOSWELL. 'And Voltaire, sir.' JOHNSON. 'He
has not stood his trial yet And what makes Voltaire chiefly
circulate is collection; such as his Universal History.' BOSWELL.
'What do you say to the Bishop of Meaux?' JOHNSON. 'Sir, nobody
reads him.' [Footnote: I take leave to enter my strongest protest
against this judgement Bossuet I hold to be one of the first
luminaries of religion and literature. If there are who do not
read him, it is full time they should begin.] He would not allow
Massillon and Bourdaloue to go round the world. In general,
however, he gave the French much praise for their industry.

He asked me whether he had mentioned, in any of the papers of
the Rambler, the description in Virgil of the entrance into Hell,
with an application to the press; 'for,' said he, 'I do not much
remember them'. I told him, 'No.' Upon which he repeated it:
Vestibulum ante ipsum, primisque in faucibus orci, Luctus et ultrices
posuere cubilia Curae; Pallentesque habitant Morbi, tristisque
Senectus, Et Metus, et malesuada Fames, et turpis Egestas, Terribiles
visu formae; Lethumque, Laborque.In pathological cases the inability to choose becomes so marked
as to make it impossible for the patient to choose any line of
conduct. "To do or not to do" extends into every relationship and
every situation. The patient cannot choose as to his dress or his
meals; cannot decide whether to stay in or go out, finds it
difficult to choose to cross the street or to open a door; is
thrown into a pendulum of yea and nay about speaking, etc. This
psychasthenic state, the folie du doute of the French, is
accompanied by fear, restlessness and an oppressive feeling of
unreality. The records of every neurologist contain many such
cases, most of whom recover, but a few go on to severe incurable
mental disease.

I pass on, without regard for logic or completeness, to a
personality type that we may call the anhedonic or simpler a
restless, not easily satisfied, easily disgusted group. Some of
these are cyclothymic, over-emotional, often monothymic but I am
discussing them from the standpoint of their satisfaction with
life and its experiences. The ordinary label of "finicky" well
expresses the type, but of course it neglects the basic
psychology. This I have discussed elsewhere in this book and will
here describe two cases, one a congenital type and the other
acquired.

T. was born dissatisfied, so his mother avers. As a baby he was
"a difficult feeding case" because the very slightest cause, the
least change in the milk, upset him, a fact attested to by
vigorous crying. Babies have a variability in desire and
satisfaction quite as much as their elders.

Apparently T. thrived, despite his start, for as a child he was
sturdy looking. Nevertheless, in toys, games, treats, etc., he
was hard to please and easy to displease. He turned up his nose
if a toy were not perfection, and he had to have his food
prepared according to specification or his appetite vanished.
Moreover, he had a very limited range of things he liked, and as
time went on he extended that list but little. He was very choice
in his clothes--not at all a regular boy--and quite disgusted
with dirt and disorder. "A little old maid" somebody called him,
having in mind of course the traditional maiden lady.

As T. grew his capacity for pleasure-feeling did not increase. On
the contrary his attention to the details necessary for his
pleasure made of him one of those finicky connoisseurs who,
though never really pleased with anything, get a sort of pleasure
in pointing out the crudity of other people's tastes and
pleasures. This attitude of superiority is the one compensation
the finicky have, and since they are often fluent of speech and
tend to write and lecture, they impose their notions of good and
bad upon others, who seek to escape being "common." In T.'s case
his attitude toward food, clothes, companions, sports and work
created a tense disharmony in his family, and one of his brothers
labeled him "The Kill-joy." Secretly envious of other people's
simple enjoyment, T. made strenuous efforts at times to overcome
his repugnances and to enlarge the scope of his pleasures, but
because this forfeited for him the superiority he had reached as
a very "refined" person, he never persisted in this process.

When he was twenty he found himself the theater of many
conflicts. He was weary of life, yet lusted for experiences that
his hyperestheticism would not permit him to take. Sex seemed too
crude, and the girls of his age were "silly." Yet their lure and
his own internal tensions dragged him to one place after another,
hoping that he would find the perfect woman, able to understand
him. At last he did find her, so he thought, in the person of a
young woman of twenty-five, a consummate mistress of the arts of
femininity. She sized him up at once, played on his vanity,
extolled his fine tastes and never exposed a single crudity of
her own, until she brought him to the point where his passion for
her, his conviction that he had found "the perfect woman," led
him to propose marriage. Then came the blow: she laughed at him,
called him a silly boy, gave him a lecture as to what constituted
a fine man, extolling crudity, vigor and virility as the prime
virtues.

His world was shattered, and its shadowy pleasures gone. At first
his parents were inclined to believe that this was a good lesson,
that T. would learn from this adventure and become a more hardy
young man. Instead he became sleepless, restless and without
desire for food or drink; he shunned men and women alike; he
stared hollow-eyed at a world full of noise and motion but
without meaning or joy. Deep was this anhedonia, and all
exhortations to "brace up and be a man" failed. Diversion, travel
and all the usual medical consultations and attentions did no
good.

One day he announced to his family that he was all right, that
soon he would be well. He seemed cheerful, talked with some
animation and dressed himself with unusual care. His parents
rejoiced, but one of his brothers did not like what he called a
"gleam" in T.'s eyes. So he followed him, in a skillful manner.
T. walked around for a while, then found his way to a bridge
crossing a swift deep river. He took off his coat, but before he
could mount the rail his watchful brother was upon him. He made
no struggle and consented to come back home. Dr Johnson said, I
ought to write down a collection of the instances of his
narrowness, as they almost exceeded belief. Col told us, that
O'Kane, the famous Irish harper, was once at that gentleman's
house.

He could not find in his heart to give him any money, but gave
him a key for a harp, which was finely ornamented with gold and
silver, and with a precious stone, and was worth eighty or a
hundred guineas. He did not know the value of it; and when he came
to know it, he would fain have had it back; but O'Kane took care
that he should not. JOHNSON. 'They exaggerate the value; every
body is so desirous that he should be fleeced.

I am very willing it should be worth eighty or a hundred guineas;
but I do not believe it.' BOSWELL. 'I do not think O'Kane
was obliged to give it back.' JOHNSON. 'No, sir. If a man with his
eyes open, and without any means used to deceive him, gives me
a thing, I am not to let him have it again when he grows wiser.
I like to see how avarice defeats itself; how, when avoiding to
part with money, the miser gives something more valuable.'
Col said, the gentleman's relations were angry at his giving
away the harp-key, for it had been long in the family. JOHNSON.
'Sir, he values a new guinea more than an old friend.'
Col also told us, that the same person having come up with a
serjeant and twenty men, working on the high road, he entered
into discourse with the serjeant, and then gave him sixpence
for the men to drink.
The serjeant asked, 'Who is this fellow?' Upon being informed,
he said, 'If I had known who he was, I should have thrown it in
his face.'

JOHNSON. 'There is much want of sense in all this. He had no business
to speak with the serjeant. He might have been in haste, and
trotted on. He had not learnt to be a miser: I believe we must
take him apprentice.' BOSWELL. 'He would grudge giving half a
guinea to be taught' JOHNSON. 'Nay, sir, you must teach
him gratis. You must give him an opportunity to practice your
precepts.'
Let me now go back, and glean Johnsoniana. The Saturday before
we sailed from Slate, I sat awhile in the afternoon with Dr
Johnson in his room, in a quiet serious frame. I observed, that
hardly any man was accurately prepared for dying; but almost every
one left something undone, something in confusion; that my father,
indeed, told me he knew one man (Carlisle of Limekilns), after
whose death all his papers were found in exact order; and
nothing was omitted in his will.

JOHNSON. 'Sir, I had an uncle who died so; but such attention
requires great leisure, and great firmness of mind. If one was to
think constantly of death, the business of life would stand
still. I am no friend to making religion appear too hard. Many
good people have done harm, by giving severe notions of it. In
the same way, as to learning:
I never frighten young people with difficulties; on the contrary,
I tell them that they may very easily get as much as will
do very well.
I do not indeed tell them that they will be BENTLEYS.'
The night we rode to Col's house, I said, 'Lord Elibank is probably
wondering what is become of us.' JOHNSON. 'No, no; he is not
thinking of us.' BOSWELL. 'But recollect the warmth with which
he wrote. Are we not to believe a man, when he says he has a
great desire to see another?

Don't you believe that I was very impatient for your coming to
Scotland?' JOHNSON. 'Yes, sir; I believe you were; and I was
impatient to come to you. A young man feels so, but seldom an
old man.' I however convinced him that Lord Elibank, who has much
of the spirit of a young man, might feel so. He asked me if our
jaunt had answered expectation. I said it had much exceeded it. I
expected much difficulty with him, and had not found it 'And,' he
added, 'wherever we have come, we have been received like princes
in their progress.'He wearied easily, and nothing
seemed to move him to enthusiasm or desire. He gave up friendship
after friendship, because the friends annoyed him by their noise
and boisterousness. He dreaded the roar of the guns and the
shriek of shells with what amounted to physical agony. He brooded
alone, and though not melancholy in the positive insane sense,
was melancholy in the disappearance of desire, joy, energy,
interest and enthusiasm.

Fortunately the armistice came at this time. S. was examined and
discharged as well because he made no complaints, for he was
anxious to get home. This was his one great desire. At home, with
a nice bed to sleep in, good food to eat and the pleasant faces
of his own people, his "nerves" would yield, he had no doubt. But
he was mistaken; this was not the case. He became no better, and
though he tried his old "job," he found that he could not find
the energy, enthusiasm or concentration necessary for success. He
was then referred to the United States Public Health Service,
where I saw him, and he became my patient.

My first problem was to restore the power of sleeping. This I
succeeded in doing by means that were entirely "physical." With
that accomplished, the man became hopeful of further results, and
this enabled one to bring about a desire for food, again by
physical means, medicine, in short. The problem of awaking S.'s
interest simmered down to that of finding an outlet for his
ambition. The Federal Vocational Board granted him the right to
take up a business course in a college. Though he found the study
hard at first, he was encouraged to keep on and told to expect
little of himself at first. This is an important point, for if a
man holds himself to a high standard under conditions such as
those of S., then failure brings a discouragement that upsets the
treatment. At any rate this method of readjustment, with its
reliance on medicines to bring sleep and appetite and on training
to bring hope and relief from introspection, worked splendidly.

The fact is that no abstruse complicated psychological analysis
was necessary here or in most cases. A man is "jarred" from
light-hearted health to a grim discouraged state. This
discouragement brings with it sleeplessness and loss of appetite,
and there gradually develops a series of habits which lower
endurance and energy. Wednesday, 15th September
The gentlemen of the clan went away early in the morning
to the harbour of Lochbradale, to take leave of some of their
friends who were going to America. It was a very wet day.
We looked at Rorie More's horn, which is a large cow's horn,
with the mouth of it ornamented with silver curiously carved.
It holds rather more than a bottle and a half. Every laird of
M'Leod, it is said, must, as a proof of his manhood, drink it off
full of claret, without laying it down.
From Rorie More many of the branches of the family are descended;
in particular, the Talisker branch; so that his name is much talked
of.

We also saw his bow, which hardly any man now can bend, and his
glaymore, which was wielded with both hands, and is of a prodigious
size. We saw here some old pieces of iron armour, immensely heavy.
The broadsword now used, though called the glaymore (i.e. the
great sword), is much smaller than that used in Rorie More's
time. There is hardly a target now to be found in the Highlands.
After the disarming act, they made them serve as covers to
their butter-milk barrels; a kind of change, like beating spears
into pruning-hooks. Sir George Mackenzie's Works (the folio
edition) happened to lie in a window in the dining room.
I asked Dr Johnson to look at the Characteres Advocatorum.
He allowed him power of mind, and that he understood very
well what he tells; but said, that there was too much
declamation, and that the Latin was not correct. He found fault
with approprinquabant, in the character of Gilmour. I tried him
with the opposition between gloria and palma, in the comparison
between Gilmour and Nisbet, which Lord Hailes, in his Catalogue of
the Lords of Session, thinks difficult to be understood.

The words are, penes ittum gloria, penes hunc palma. In a short
Account of the Kirk of Scotland, which I published some years ago,
I applied these words to the two contending parties, and explained
them thus: 'The popular party has most eloquence; Dr Robertson's
party most influence.'

I was very desirous to hear Dr Johnson's explication. JOHNSON. 'I
see no difficulty.
Gilmour was admired for his parts; Nisbet carried his cause by the
skill in law. Palma is victory.' I observed, that the character
of Nicholson, in this book resembled that of Burke: for it is
said, in one place, in omnes lusos & jocos se saepe resolvebat;
[Footnote: He often indulged himself in every species of pleasantry
and wit.] and, in another, sed accipitris more e conspectu aliquando
astantium sublimi se protrahens volatu, in praedam miro
impetu descendebat.
[Footnote: But like the hawk, having soared with a lofty flight
to a height which the eye could not reach, he was want to swoop
upon his quarry with wonderful rapidity.] JOHNSON. 'No, sir; I
never heard Burke make a good joke in my life.' BOSWELL. 'But,
sir, you will allow he is a hawk.' Dr Johnson, thinking that I
meant this of his joking, said, 'No, sir, he is not the hawk there.
He is the beetle in the mire.' I still adhered to my metaphor.
'But he SOARS as the hawk.'

JOHNSON. 'Yes, sir; but he catches nothing.' M'Leod asked, what is
the particular excellence of Burke's eloquence? JOHNSON.
'Copiousness and fertility of allusion; a power of diversifying
his matter, by placing it in various relations. Burke has great
information, and great command of language; though, in
my opinion, it has not in every respect the highest elegance.'
BOSWELL. 'Do you think, sir, that Burke has read Cicero much?'
JOHNSON. 'I don't believe it, sir. Burke has great knowledge,
great fluency of words, and great promptness of ideas, so that
he can speak with great illustration on any subject that comes
before him. He is neither like Cicero, nor like Demosthenes,
nor like any one else, but speaks as well as he can.'

In the 65th page of the first volume of Sir George Mackenzie, Dr
Johnson pointed out a paragraph beginning with 'Aristotle', and
told me there was an error in the text, which he bade me try to
discover.
He loves his wife, and there is in their
intimacy a buoyant yet controlled passion which values love for
its own sake. He enters into his duties as father with the same
zeal and appetite that characterizes his every activity.

O. is no mystic, proclaiming his unity with all existence, in the
fashion of Walt Whitman. Rather he is a man with a huge capacity
for pleasure, not easily disgusted or annoyed, with desires that
reach in every direction yet with controlled purpose to guide his
life. As he passes into middle age he finds his pleasures
narrowing, as all men do, and he finds his appetites and tastes
are becoming more restricted. This is because his purpose becomes
more dominant, his habits are more imperious, his energy less
exuberant. In thought O. is almost a pessimist because his
knowledge of life, his intelligence and his sympathy make it
difficult to understand the need of suffering, of disease and of
conflict. But in emotion he still remains an optimist, glad to be
alive at any price and rejoicing in the life of all things.

Apropos of this contradiction between thought and mood, it is
sometimes found reversed. There are those whose philosophy is
optimistic, who will not see aught but good in the world, yet
whose facial expression and actions exhibit an essential
melancholy.

In every category of character there are specialists, individuals
whose main reactions are built around one great trait. Thus there
are those whose egoism takes the form of pride in family, or in
personal beauty, or some intellectual capacity, or in being
independent of others, who worship self-reliance or
self-importance. There are the individuals whose social instincts
express themselves in loquacity, in a talkativeness that is the
main joy of their lives, though not at all the joy of other
lives. A fascinating series of personalities in this respect come
to my mind--L. B., who talks at people, never with them, since he
seems to take no note of their replies; T. K., who seems to
regard conversation as largely a means of demonstrating her
superiority, for she picks her subjects with the care a general
selects his battlefield; F., who is a born pedagogue and seeks to
instruct whoever listens to him, whose conversation is a lecture
and a monologue; R. O., the reticent, says little but that
pertinent and relevant, cynical and shrewd; and R. V., who says
little and that with timidity and error. So there are specialists
in caution and "common sense," self-controlled, never rash,
calculating, cool and egotistic, narrow and successful. Every one
knows this type, as every one knows the "fool," with his poor
judgment, his unwise confidence in himself and others, his lack
of restraint. There is the tactful man, conciliating, pliant,
seeking his purposes through the good will of others which he
obtains by "oil" and agreeableness, and there is the aggressive
man, preferring to fight, energetic, at times rash, apt to be
domineering, and crashing on to victory or defeat according to
the caliber of his opponents and the nature of the circumstances.

He said, he did not grudge Burke's being the first man in the
House of Commons, for he was the first man every where; but
he grudged that a fellow who makes no figure in company, and has
a mind as narrow as the neck of a vinegar cruet, should make
a figure in the House of Commons, merely by having the
knowledge of a few forms, and being furnished with a little
occasional information. [Footnote: He did not mention the name of
any particular person; but those who are conversant with
the political world will probably recollect more persons than
one to whom this observation may be applied.] He told us,
the first time he saw Dr Young was at the house of Mr Richardson,
the author of Clarissa. He was sent for, that the doctor might
read to him his Conjectures on Original Composition, which he did,
and Dr Johnson made his remarks; and he was surprised to find Young
receive as novelties, what he thought very common maxims.

He said, he believed Young was not a great scholar, nor had studied
regularly the art of writing; that there were very fine things
in his Night Thoughts, though you could not find twenty lines
together without some extravagance. He repeated two passages from
his Love of Fame--the characters of Brunetta and Stella, which
he praised highly. He said Young pressed him much to come to
Wellwyn. He always intended it, but never went. He was sorry
when Young died. The cause of quarrel between Young and his son,
he told us, was, that his son insisted Young should turn away a
clergyman's widow, who lived with him, and who, having
acquired great influence over the father, was saucy to the son.
Dr Johnson said, she could not conceal her resentment at him,
for saying to Young, that 'an old man should not resign himself
to the management of any body.' I asked him, if there was any
improper connection between them. 'No, sir, no more than between
two statues.

He was past fourscore, and she a very coarse woman. She read to
him, and, I suppose, made his coffee, and frothed his chocolate,
and did such things as an old man wishes to have done for
him.'
Dr Dodridge being mentioned, he observed that 'he was author of one
of the finest epigrams in the English language. It is in Orton's
Life of him.

The subject is his family-motto, Dum vivimus, vivamus; which,
in its primary signification, is, to be sure, not very suitable
to a Christian divine; but he paraphrased it thus:

"Live, while you live, the EPICURE would say, And seize the
pleasures of the present day.
Live, while you live, the sacred PREACHER cries, And give to
God each moment as it flies.
Lord, in my views let both united be; I live in PLEASURE, when
I live to THEE."'
I asked if it was not strange that government should permit so
many infidel writings to pass without censure. JOHNSON. 'Sir, it
is mighty foolish. It is for want of knowing their own power. The
present family on the throne came to the crown against the will of
nine tenths of the people.Those
admitted to the sanctum of this man's real self knew him to be
really modest and self-deprecatory, anxious to do right and
almost obsessed by the belief that he knew but little compared to
others.

One day there walked into my office a lady, head of a large
enterprise, who had been pointed out to me some time previously
as the very personification of self-assurance and superiority. A
dignified woman of middle age, whose reserve and correct manners
impressed one at once; she bore out in career and casual
conversation this impression of one whose confidence and belief
in herself were not misplaced, in other words, a harmoniously
developed egotist. What she came to consult me about, was--her
feeling of inferiority!

All of her life, said she, she had been overawed by others. As a
girl her mother ruled her, and her younger sister, more charming
and more vivacious, was the pet of the family. Brought up in a
strict church, she developed a firmness of speech and conduct
that inhibited the frankness and friendliness of her social
contacts. Because of this, and her overserious attitudes
generally, girls of her own age rather avoided her, and she
became painfully self-conscious in their company as well as in
the company of men. She wanted to "let go" but could not, and in
time felt that there was something lacking in her, that people
laughed at her behind her back and that no one really liked her.
Her reaction to this was to determine that she would not show her
real feelings, that she would deal with the world on a basis of
"business only" and cut out friendship from her life. Her
intelligence and her devotion to her work brought her success,
and she would have gone her way without regard for her
"inferiority complex" had not chance thrown in her way a young
woman colleague who saw through her elder's pose and became her
friend. My patient drank in this friendship with an avidity the
greater for her long loneliness, and she was very happy until the
younger woman fell in love with a man and began to neglect her
colleague.

This broke Miss B.'s spirit. "Had I not known friendship I might
have gone on, but now I feel that every one must see what a fool
I am and what a fool I have been. I am more shy than ever, I feel
as if every one were really stronger than I am, and that some day
everybody will see through my pose,--and then where will I be?"

Hide-and-go-seek is one of the great games of adults as well as
of children. We hide our own defects and seek the defects of
others in order to avoid inferiority and to feel competitive
superiority. But there is a deep contradiction in our natures: we
seek to display ourselves as we are to those who we feel love us,
and we hide our real self from the enemy or the stranger. The
protective marking of birds and insects "amateurish compared to
the protective marking we apply to ourselves.

I forbear from depicting further character types. People are not
as easily classified as automobiles, and the combinations
possible exceed computation. Character growth, in each individual
human being, is a growth in likeness to others and a growth in
unlikeness, as well. Dr Johnson said, it was poor stuff, such
as Lord Lovat's butler might have written.

I observed, in this church-yard, a parcel of people assembled at
a funeral, before the grave was dug. The coffin, with the corpse
in it, was placed on the ground, while the people alternately
assisted in making a grave. One man, at a little distance,
was busy cutting a long turf for it, with the crooked spade
which is used in Sky; a very aukward instrument. The iron part
of it is like a plough-coulter. It has a rude tree for a handle,
in which a wooden pin is placed for the foot to press upon. A
traveller might, without further inquiry, have set this down as
the mode of burying in Sky. I was told, however, that the usual way
is to have a grave previously dug.Limiting ourselves to a
humble effort to know our fellow men and our own selves, we shall
find that our efforts not only add to our knowledge but add
unmeasurably to our sympathy with and our love for our fellows.