"Oh, yes they are good," I replied, adding mysteriously. "If two
children named August and Anna allow you to call them Hansanella for
five weeks without comment, it isn't likely that they would be very
fertile in evil doing!"

I had a full year's experience with the false Hansanella and in that
time they blighted our supremest joys. There was always a gap in the
circle where they stood and they stopped the electric current whenever
it reached them. I am more anxious that the Eugenic Societies should
eliminate this kind of child from the future than almost any other type.
It has chalk and water instead of blood in its veins. It is as cold as
if it had been made by machinery and then refrigerated, instead of being
brought into being by a mother's love; and it never has an impulse, but
just passes through the world mechanically, taking up space that could
be better occupied by some warm, struggling, erring, aspiring human
creature.

How can I describe Jacob Lavrowsky? There chanced to be a row of little
Biblical characters, mostly prophets sitting beside one another about
half way back in the room:--Moses, Jeremiah, Ezekial, Elijah and Elisha,
but the greatest of these was Jacob. He was one of ten children, the
offspring of a couple who kept a secondhand clothing establishment in
the vicinity. Mr. and Mrs. Lavrowsky collected, mended, patched, sold
and exchanged cast-off wearing apparel, and the little Lavrowsky's
played about in the rags, slept under the counters and ate Heaven knows
where, during the term of my acquaintance with them. Jacob differed from
all the other of my flock by possessing a premature, thoroughly
unchildlike sense of humor. He regarded me as one of the most
unaccountable human beings he had ever met, but he had such respect for
what he believed to be my good bottom qualities that he constantly tried
to conceal from me his feeling that I was probably a little insane. He
had large expressive eyes, a flat nose, wide mouth, thin hair, long neck
and sallow skin, while his body was so thin and scrawny that his clothes
always hung upon him in shapeless folds. His age was five and his point
of view that of fifty. As to his toilettes, there must have been a large
clothes-bin in the room back of the shop and Jacob must have daily
dressed himself from this, leaning over the side and plucking from the
varied assortment such articles as pleased his errant fancy. He had no
prejudices against bits of feminine attire, often sporting a dark green
cashmere basque trimmed with black velvet ribbon and gilt buttons. It
was double breasted and when it surmounted a pair of trousers cut to the
right length but not altered in width, the effect would have startled
any more exacting community than ours. Some bracketed text is verbatim
from Manly's edition. However, some bracketed text is taken from alternate
editions which Manly originally supplied in footnotes.
As the editor of this electronic edition, I have sometimes chosen the
clearer of two alternatives, sacrificing the specificity of Manly's
footnoted edition in favor of a text that has a better chance of being
read and understood by a modern audience. I have also excluded the
insertions supposed to have been written by Ben Johnson, as well as the
additional dialogue from III.xiii and IV.iii. Some alternate dialogue
has been included as has been labeled as such.]

Containing the lamentable end of DON HORATIO, and BEL-IMPERIA:
with the pittiful death of olde HIERONIMO.When the latter instrument
made its first appearance Jacob sought a secluded spot by the piano and
gave himself up to a fit of fairly courteous but excessive mirth. "_A
drum!_" he exclaimed, between his fits of laughter. "_What'll yer have
next? This is a h--l of a school!_"

Just behind Jacob sat two little pink-cheeked girls five and four years
old, Violet and Rose Featherstone. Violet brought the younger Rose every
day and was a miracle of sisterly devotion. I did not see the mother for
some months after the little pair entered, as she had work that kept
her from home during the hours when it was possible for me to call upon
her, and she lived at a long distance from the kindergarten in a
neighborhood from which none of our other children came.

I had no anxiety about them however, as the looks, behavior, and
clothing of all my children was always an absolute test of the
conditions prevailing in the home. What was my surprise then, one day to
receive a note from a certain Mrs. Hannah Googins, a name not in my
register.

She said her Emma Abby had been bringing home pieces of sewing and
weaving of late, marked "Violet Featherstone." She would like to see
some of Emma Abby's own work and find out whether she had taken that of
any other child by mistake. A long and puzzling investigation followed
the receipt of this letter and I found that the romantic little Emma
Abby Googins, not caring for the name given her by her maternal parent,
had assumed that of Violet Featherstone. Also, being an only child and
greatly desiring a sister, she had plucked a certain little Nellie
Taylor from a family near by, named her "Rose Featherstone" and taken
her to and from the kindergarten daily, a distance of at least half a
mile of crowded streets. The affair was purely one of innocent romance.
Emma Abby Googins never told a fib or committed the slightest fault or
folly save that of burying her name, assuming a more distinguished one,
and introducing a sister to me who had no claim to the Googins blood.
Her mother was thoroughly mystified by the occurrence and I no less so,
but Emma Abby simply opened her blue eyes wider and protested that she
"liked to be Violet" and Rose liked to be Rose, and that was the only
excuse for her conduct, which she seemed to think needed neither apology
nor explanation.

Now comes the darling of the group, the heart's ease, the nonesuch, the
Rose of Erin, the lovely, the indescribable Rosaleen Clancy.

We were all working busily and happily one morning when a young woman
tapped at the door and led in that flower and pearl of babyhood, the
aforesaid Rosaleen.

The young woman said she knew that the kindergarten was full, and indeed
had a long waiting list, but the Clancy family had just arrived from
Ireland; that there were two little boys; a new baby twenty-four hours
old; Mr. Clancy had not yet found work, and could we take care of
Rosaleen even for a week or two?

As I looked at the child the remark that we had not a single vacant seat
perished, unborn, on my lips. She was about three and a half years old,
and was clad in a straight, loose slip of dark blue wool that showed her
neck and arms. A little flat, sort of "pork pie" hat of blue velveteen
sat on the back of her adorable head, showing the satiny rings of yellow
hair that curled round her ears and hung close to her neck. (No wonder!)
She had gray-blue eyes with long upper and under lashes and a perfect
mouth that disclosed the pearly teeth usually confined to the heroines
of novels. As to her skin you would say that Jersey cream was the
principal ingredient in its composition.

The children had stopped their weaving needles and were gazing
open-mouthed at this vision of beauty, though Rosaleen had by no means
unmasked all her batteries. She came nearer my chair, and without being
invited, slipped her hand in mine in a blarneyish and deludthering way
not unknown in her native isle. The same Jersey cream had gone into its
skin, there were dimples in the knuckles, and baby hand though it was,
its satin touch had a thrill in it, and responded instantly to my
pressure.

"Do you think we can make room for her, children?" I asked.

