MARÍNA. You know yourself I never loved any one but you. Whether you
married me or not, I'd not have been angry. I've done you no wrong, then
why have you left off caring for me? Why?

NIKÍTA. Where's the use of baying at the moon? You go away. Goodness me!
what a duffer!

MARÍNA. It's not that you deceived me when you promised to marry me that
hurts, but that you've left off loving. No, it's not that you've stopped
loving me either, but that you've changed me for another, that's what
hurts. I know who it is!

NIKÍTA [comes up to her viciously] Eh! what's the good of talking to the
likes of you, that won't listen to reason? Be off, or you'll drive me to
do something you'll be sorry for.

MARÍNA. What, will you strike me, then? Well then, strike me! What are
you turning away for? Ah, Nikíta!

NIKÍTA. Supposing some one came in. Of course, it's quite improper. And
what's the good of talking?

MARÍNA. So this is the end of it! What has been has flown. You want me
to forget it? Well then, Nikíta, listen. I kept my maiden honour as the
apple of my eye. You have ruined me for nothing, you have deceived me.
You have no pity on a fatherless and motherless girl! [Weeping] You have
deserted, you have killed me, but I bear you no malice. God forgive you!
If you find a better one you'll forget me, if a worse one you'll remember
me. Yes, you will remember, Nikíta! Good-bye, then, if it is to be. Oh,
how I loved you! Good-bye for the last time. [Takes his head in her
hands and tries to kiss him].

NIKÍTA [tossing his head back] I'm not going to talk with the likes of
you. If you won't go away I will, and you may stay here by yourself.

MARÍNA [screams] You are a brute. [In the doorway] God will give you no
joy. [Exit, crying].

AKOULÍNA [comes out of closet] You're a dog, Nikíta!

NIKÍTA. What's up?

AKOULÍNA. What a cry she gave! [Cries].

NIKÍTA. What's up with you?

AKOULÍNA. What's up? You've hurt her so. That's the way you'll hurt me
also. You're a dog. [Exit into closet].

    Silence.

NIKÍTA. Here's a fine muddle. I'm as sweet as honey on the lasses, but
when a fellow's sinned with 'em it's a bad look-out!


                                Curtain.


ACT II

    The scene represents the village street. To the left the outside of
    Peter's hut, built of logs, with a porch in the middle; to the right
    of the hut the gates and a corner of the yard buildings. Anísya is
    beating hemp in the street near the corner of the yard. Six months
    have elapsed since the First Act.


ANÍSYA [stops and listens] Mumbling something again. He's probably got
off the stove.

    Akoulína enters, carrying two pails on a yoke.

ANÍSYA. He's calling. You go and see what he wants, kicking up such a
row.

AKOULÍNA. Why don't you go?

ANÍSYA. Go, I tell you! [Exit Akoulína into hut] He's bothering me to
death. Won't let out where the money is, and that's all about it. He was
out in the passage the other day. He must have been hiding it there.
Now, I don't know myself where it is. Thank goodness he's afraid of
parting with it, so that at least it will stay in the house. If only I
could manage to find it. He hadn't it on him yesterday. Now I don't know
where it can be. He has quite worn the life out of me.

    Enter Akoulína, tying her kerchief over her head.

ANÍSYA. Where are you off to?

AKOULÍNA. Where? Why, he's told me to go for Aunt Martha. "Fetch my
sister," he says. "I am going to die," he says. "I have a word to say to
her."

ANÍSYA [aside] Asking for his sister? Oh my poor head! Sure he wants to
give it her. What shall I do? Oh! [To Akoulína] Don't go! Where are you
off to?

AKOULÍNA. To call Aunt.

ANÍSYA. Don't go I tell you, I'll go myself. You go and take the clothes
to the river to rinse. Else you'll not have finished by the evening.

AKOULÍNA. But he told me to go.

ANÍSYA. You go and do as you're bid. I tell you I'll fetch Martha
myself. Take the shirts off the fence.

AKOULÍNA. The shirts? But maybe you'll not go. He's given the order.

ANÍSYA. Didn't I say I'd go? Where's Nan?

AKOULÍNA. Nan? Minding the calves.

ANÍSYA. Send her here. I dare say they'll not run away. [Akoulína
collects the clothes, and exit].

ANÍSYA. If one doesn't go he'll scold. If one goes he'll give the money
to his sister. All my trouble will be wasted. I don't myself know what
I'm to do. My poor head's splitting. [Continues to work].

    Enter Matryóna, with a stick and a bundle, in outdoor clothes.

MATRYÓNA. May the Lord help you, honey.

ANÍSYA [looks round, stops working, and claps her hands with joy] Well,
I never expected this! Mother Matryóna, God has sent the right guest at
the right time.

MATRYÓNA. Well, how are things?

ANÍSYA. Ah, I'm driven well-nigh crazy. It's awful!

MATRYÓNA. Well, still alive, I hear?

ANÍSYA. Oh, don't talk about it. He doesn't live and doesn't die!

MATRYÓNA. But the money--has he given it to anybody?

ANÍSYA. He's just sending for his sister Martha--probably about the
money.

MATRYÓNA. Well, naturally! But hasn't he given it to any one else?

ANÍSYA. To no one. I watch like a hawk.

MATRYÓNA. And where is it?

ANÍSYA. He doesn't let out. And I can't find out in any way. He hides it
now here, now there, and I can't do anything because of Akoulína. Idiot
though she is, she keeps watch, and is always about. Oh my poor head!
I'm bothered to death.

MATRYÓNA. Oh, my jewel, if he gives the money to any one but you, you'll
never cease regretting it as long as you live! They'll turn you out of
house and home without anything. You've been worriting, and worriting
all your life with one you don't love, and will have to go a-begging
when you are a widow.

ANÍSYA. No need to tell me, mother. My heart's that weary, and I don't
know what to do. No one to get a bit of advice from. I told Nikíta, but
he's frightened of the job. The only thing he did was to tell me
yesterday it was hidden under the floor.

MATRYÓNA. Well, and did you look there?

ANÍSYA. I couldn't. The old man himself was in the room. I notice that
sometimes he carries it about on him, and sometimes he hides it.

MATRYÓNA. The bright springing mercury that carpeted the open spaces had
only just hung out its pale flowers, and honeysuckle leaves were still
tongues of green fire.

Between the larch boles and under the thickets of honeysuckle and
blackberry came a tawny silent form, wearing with the calm dignity
of woodland creatures a beauty of eye and limb, a brilliance of
tint, that few-women could have worn without self-consciousness.

    Clear-eyed, lithe, it stood for a moment in the full sunlight--a
    year-old fox, round-headed and velvet-footed.

Then it slid into the shadows. A shrill whistle came from the interior
of the wood, and the fox bounded towards it.

'Where you bin? You'm stray and lose yourself, certain sure!' said a
girl's voice, chidingly motherly.

'And if you'm alost, I'm alost; so come you whome. The sun's undering,
and there's bones for supper!'

With that she took to her heels, the little fox after her, racing
down the Callow in the cold level light till they came to the Woodus's
cottage.

Hazel Woodus, to whom the fox belonged, had always lived at the Callow.

There her mother, a Welsh gipsy, had born her in bitter rebellion,
hating marriage and a settled life and Abel Woodus as a wild cat
hates a cage.

She was a rover, born for the artist's joy and sorrow, and her
spirit found no relief for its emotions; for it was dumb.

To the linnet its flight, to the thrush its song; but she had neither
flight nor song.

Yet the tongueless thrush is a thrush still, and has golden music in
its heart. The caged linnet may sit moping, but her soul knows the dip
and rise of flight on an everlasting May morning.

  All the things she felt and could not say, all the stored honey, the
  black hatred, the wistful homesickness for the unfenced wild--all
that other women would have put into their prayers, she gave to
Hazel.

The whole force of her wayward heart flowed into the softly beating
heart of her baby.

It was as if she passionately flung the life she did not value into
the arms of her child.

When Hazel was fourteen she died, leaving her treasure--an old, dirty,
partially illegible manuscript-book of spells and charms and other
gipsy lore--to her daughter.

Her one request was that she might be buried in the Callow under the
yellow larch needles, and not in a churchyard. Abel Woodus did as she
asked, and was regarded askance by most of the community for not
burying her in Chrissen-ground.

But this did not trouble him.

He had his harp still, and while he had that he needed no other friend.
It had been his absorption in his music that had prevented him
understanding his wife, and in the early days of their marriage she
had been wildly jealous of the tall gilt harp with its faded felt
cover that stood in the corner of the living-room.

Then her jealousy changed to love of it, and her one desire was to be
able to draw music from its plaintive strings. She could never master
even the rudiments of music, but she would sit on rainy evenings when
Abel was away and run her thin hands over the strings with a
despairing passion of grieving love.

Yet she could not bear to hear Abel play. Just as some childless women
with all their accumulated stores of love cannot bear to see a
mother with her child, so Maray Woodus, with her sealed genius, her
incapacity for expression, could not bear to hear the easy
self-expression of another.

For Abel was in his way a master of his art; he had dark places in his
soul, and that is the very core of art and its substance.
MATRYÓNA [while the Neighbour is within hearing speaks in her ordinary
voice] Yes, lass, thank goodness, she's married. At any rate my old fool
won't go bothering about Nikíta. Now [suddenly changing her tone], she's
gone! [Whispers] I say, did you give him the tea?

ANÍSYA. Don't speak about it. He'd better die of himself. It's no
use--he doesn't die, and I have only taken a sin on my soul. O-oh, my
head, my head! Oh, why did you give me those powders?

MATRYÓNA. What of the powders? The sleeping powders, lass,--why not give
them? No evil can come of them.

ANÍSYA. I am not talking of the sleeping ones, but the others, the white
ones.

MATRYÓNA. Well, honey, those powders are medicinal.

ANÍSYA [sighs] I know, yet it's frightening. Though he's worried me to
death.

MATRYÓNA. Well, and did you use many?

ANÍSYA. I gave two doses.

MATRYÓNA. Was anything noticeable?

ANÍSYA. I had a taste of the tea myself--just a little bitter. And he
drank them with the tea and says, "Even tea disgusts me," and I say,
"Everything tastes bitter when one's sick." But I felt that scared,
mother.

MATRYÓNA. Don't go thinking about it. The more one thinks the worse it
is.

ANÍSYA. I wish you'd never given them to me and led me into sin. When I
think of it something seems to tear my heart. Oh dear, why did you give
them to me?

MATRYÓNA. What do you mean, honey? Lord help you! Why are you turning it
on to me? Mind, lass, don't go twisting matters from the sick on to the
healthy. If anything were to happen, I stand aside! I know nothing! I'm
aware of nothing! I'll kiss the cross on it; I never gave you any kind
of powders, never saw any, never heard of any, and never knew there were
such powders. You think about yourself, lass. Why, we were talking about
you the other day. "Poor thing, what torture she endures. The
step-daughter an idiot; the old man rotten, sucking her life-blood. What
wouldn't one be ready to do in such a case!"

ANÍSYA. I'm not going to deny it. A life such as mine could make one do
worse than that. It could make you hang yourself or throttle him. Is
this a life?

MATRYÓNA. That's just it. There's no time to stand gaping; the money
must be found one way or other, and then he must have his tea.

ANÍSYA. O-oh, my head, my head! I can't think what to do. I am so
frightened; he'd better die of himself. I don't want to have it on my
soul.

MATRYÓNA [viciously] And why doesn't he show the money? Does he mean to
take it along with him? Is no one to have it? Is that right? God forbid
such a sum should be lost all for nothing. Isn't that a sin? What's he
doing? Is he worth considering?

ANÍSYA. I don't know anything. He's worried me to death.

MATRYÓNA. What is it you don't know? The business is clear. If you make
a slip now, you'll repent it all your life. He'll give the money to his
sister and you'll be left without.

ANÍSYA. O-oh dear! Yes, and he did send for her--I must go.

MATRYÓNA. You wait a bit and light the samovár first. We'll give him
some tea and search him together--we'll find it, no fear.

ANÍSYA. Oh dear, oh dear; supposing something were to happen.

MATRYÓNA. What now? What's the good of waiting? Do you want the money to
slip from your hand when it's just in sight? You go and do as I say.

ANÍSYA. Well, I'll go and light the samovár.

MATRYÓNA. Go, honey, do the business so as not to regret it afterwards.
That's right! [Anísya turns to go. Matryóna calls her back].

MATRYÓNA. Just a word. Don't tell Nikíta about the business. He's silly.
God forbid he should find out about the powders. The Lord only knows
what he would do. He's so tender-hearted. D'you know, he usen't to be
able to kill a chicken. Don't tell him. 'Twould be a fine go, he
wouldn't understand things. [Stops horror-struck as Peter appears in the
doorway].

PETER [holding on to the wall, creeps out into the porch and calls with
a faint voice] How's it one can't make you hear? Oh, oh, Anísya! Who's
there? [Drops on the bench].

ANÍSYA [steps from behind the corner] Why have you come out? You should
have stayed where you were lying.

PETER. Has the girl gone for Martha? It's very hard.... Oh, if only
death would come quicker!

ANÍSYA. She had no time. I sent her to the river. Wait a bit, I'll go
myself when I'm ready.

PETER. Send Nan. Where's she? Oh, I'm that bad! Oh, death's at hand!

ANÍSYA. I've sent for her already.

PETER. Oh dear! Then where is she?

ANÍSYA. Where's she got to, the plague seize her!

PETER. Oh, dear! I can't bear it. All my inside's on fire. It's as if a
gimlet were boring me. Why have you left me as if I were a dog?... no
one to give me a drink.... Oh ... send Nan to me.

ANÍSYA. Here she is. Nan, go to father.

    Nan runs in. Anísya goes behind the corner of the house.

PETER. Go you. Oh ... to Aunt Martha, tell her father wants her; say
she's to come, I want her.

NAN. It seems hard!"

John Fox had been much impressed by Harry's luck, and his avaricious
soul was busying itself with some scheme for turning it to his
personal advantage.

"I'm glad you've been so lucky, Harry," he said with affected
cordiality.

Go into the hut,
hunt about everywhere, like a dog that's hunting for fleas: look under
everything, and I'll search him.

ANÍSYA [to Matryóna] I feel a bit bolder, somehow, now you're here.
[Goes up to porch. To Peter] Hadn't I better light the samovár? Here's
Mother Matryóna come to see her son; you'll have a cup of tea with her?

PETER. Well then, light it. [Anísya goes into the house. Matryóna comes
up to the porch].

PETER. How do you do?

MATRYÓNA [bowing] How d'you do, my benefactor; how d'you do, my precious
... still ill, I see. And my old man, he's that sorry! "Go," says he,
"see how he's getting on." He sends his respects to you. [Bows again].

PETER. I'm dying.

MATRYÓNA. Ah yes, Peter Ignátitch, now I look at you I see, as the
saying has it, "Sickness lives where men live." You've shrivelled,
shrivelled, all to nothing, poor dear, now I come to look at you. Seems
illness does not add to good looks.

PETER. My last hour has come.

MATRYÓNA. Oh well, Peter Ignátitch, it's God's will you know, you've had
communion, and you'll have unction, God willing. Your missus is a wise
woman, the Lord be thanked; she'll give you a good burial, and have
prayers said for your soul, all most respectable! And my son, he'll look
after things meanwhile.

PETER. There'll be no one to manage things! She's not steady. Has her
head full of folly--why, I know all about it, I know. And my girl is
silly and young. I've got the homestead together, and there's no one to
attend to things. One can't help feeling it. [Whimpers].

MATRYÓNA. Why, if it's money, or something, you can leave orders.

PETER [to Anísya inside the house] Has Nan gone?

MATRYÓNA [aside] There now, he's remembered!

ANÍSYA [from inside] She went then and there. Come inside, won't you?
I'll help you in.

PETER. Let me sit here a bit for the last time. The air's so stuffy
inside. Oh, how bad I feel! Oh, my heart's burning.... Oh, if death
would only come.

MATRYÓNA. If God don't take a soul, the soul can't go out. Death and
life are in God's will, Peter Ignátitch. You can't be sure of death
either. Maybe you'll recover yet. There was a man in our village just
like that, at the very point of death ...

PETER. No, I feel I shall die to-day, I feel it. [Leans back and shuts
his eyes].

ANÍSYA [enters] Well now, are you coming in or not? You do keep one
waiting. Peter! eh, Peter!

MATRYÓNA [steps aside and beckons to Anísya with her finger] Well?

ANÍSYA [comes down the porch steps] Not there.

MATRYÓNA. But have you searched everywhere? Under the floor?

ANÍSYA. No, it's not there either. In the shed perhaps; he was rummaging
there yesterday.

MATRYÓNA. Go, search, search for all you're worth. Go all over
everywhere, as if you licked with your tongue! But I see he'll die this
very day, his nails are turning blue and his face looks earthy. Is the
samovár ready?

ANÍSYA. Just on the boil.

NIKÍTA [comes from the other side, if possible on horseback, up to the
gate, and does not see Peter. To Matryóna] How d'you do, mother, is all
well at home?

MATRYÓNA. The Lord be thanked, we're all alive and have a crust to bite.

NIKÍTA. Well, and how's master?

MATRYÓNA. Hush, there he sits. [Points to porch].

NIKÍTA. Well, let him sit. What's it to me?

PETER [opens his eyes] Nikíta, I say, Nikíta, come here! [Nikíta
approaches. Anísya and Matryóna whisper together].

PETER. Why have you come back so early?

NIKÍTA. I've finished ploughing.

PETER. Have you done the strip beyond the bridge?

NIKÍTA. It's too far to go there.

PETER. Too far? From here it's still farther. You'll have to go on
purpose now. You might have made one job of it. [Anísya, without showing
herself, stands and listens].

MATRYÓNA [approaches] Oh, sonnie, why don't you take more pains for your
master? Your master is ill and depends on you; you should serve him as
you would your own father, straining every muscle just as I always tell
you to.

PETER. Well then--o-oh!... Get out the seed potatoes, and the women will
go and sort them.

ANÍSYA [aside] No fear, I'm not going. He's again sending every one
away; he must have the money on him now, and wants to hide it somewhere.

PETER. Else ... o-oh! when the time comes for planting, they'll all be
rotten. Oh, I can't stand it! [Rises].

MATRYÓNA [runs up into the porch and holds Peter up] Shall I help you
into the hut?

PETER. Help me in. [Stops] Nikíta!

NIKÍTA [angrily] What now?

PETER. I shan't see you again ... I'll die to-day.... Forgive me,[3] for
Christ's sake, forgive me if I have ever sinned against you ... If I
have sinned in word or deed ... There's been all sorts of things.
Forgive me!

  [3] A formal request for forgiveness is customary among Russians, but
  it is often no mere formality. Nikíta's first reply is evasive; his
  second reply, "God will forgive you," is the correct one sanctioned by
  custom.

NIKÍTA. What's there to forgive? I'm a sinner myself.

MATRYÓNA. Ah, sonnie, have some feeling.

PETER. Forgive me, for Christ's sake. [Weeps].

NIKÍTA [snivels] God will forgive you, Daddy Peter. However, it would
have done no good to contradict Fletcher, for his word with the captain
would have outweighed theirs, and he would have found a way to
punish them for their interference.

    "In future," said the captain, "I advise you to make sure that the
game is worth bagging.

As it is, you have led us on a fool's errand."
"That may be," Fletcher admitted, "but it wasn't so last time. The Scotch
merchant bled freely, you must allow."

"Yes, you did better then."
As Harry listened he began to understand that Fletcher acted as a
decoy, to ingratiate himself with parties leaving Melbourne for the
mines, and then giving secret information to the bushrangers with
whom he was connected, enabling them to attack and plunder his
unsuspecting companions.

"That's a pretty mean sort of business," he said to Jack, when he
had an opportunity to speak to him without being overheard.

"I'd rather be a robber right out than lure people into danger."

"So would I," responded Jack.

"That Fletcher's worse than a pirate."

Still they went on, so slowly that the boys, though compelled to walk,
had little difficulty in keeping up. They were necessarily anxious,
but their predominant feeling was of curiosity as to their destination,
and as to the bushrangers' mode of life.

At length they came out of the woods into more open ground.

CHAPTER XII.

THE HOME OF THE BUSHRANGERS.

On a slight rise stood a collection of huts, covered with sheets of the
bark of the gum-tree, held on by ties of bullock hide.

For the most part they contained but one room each. One, however, was
large and, the boys afterward learned, was occupied by the captain
of the bushrangers.

Another served as a stable for the horses of the party.

This Harry judged to be the home of the outlaws, for no sooner had they
come in sight of it than they leaped from their horses and led them up
to the stable, relieving them of their saddles.

Then the bushrangers sat down on the ground, and lounged at their
ease.

When he's drunk the cup, then just take it.
He'll not tell, no fear.

ANÍSYA. Oh! I'm afeared!

MATRYÓNA. Don't be talking now, but look alive, and I'll keep his sister
off if need be. Mind, don't make a blunder! Get hold of the money and
bring it here, and Nikíta will hide it.

ANÍSYA. Oh my head, my head! I don't know how I'm going to ...

MATRYÓNA. Don't talk about it I tell you, do as I bid you. Nikíta!

NIKÍTA. What is it?

MATRYÓNA. You stay here--sit down--in case something is wanted.

NIKÍTA [waves his hand] Oh these women, what won't they be up to? Muddle
one up completely. Bother them! I'll really go and fetch out the
potatoes.

MATRYÓNA [catches him by the arm] Stay here, I tell you.

    Nan enters.

ANÍSYA. Well?

NAN. She was down in her daughter's vegetable plot--she's coming.

ANÍSYA. Coming! What shall we do?

MATRYÓNA. There's plenty of time if you do as I tell you.

ANÍSYA. I don't know what to do; I know nothing, my brain's all in a
whirl. Nan! Go, daughter, and see to the calves, they'll have run away,
I'm afraid.... Oh dear, I haven't the courage.

MATRYÓNA. Go on! I should think the samovár's boiling over.

ANÍSYA. Oh my head, my poor head! [Exit].

MATRYÓNA [approaches Nikíta] Now then, sonnie. [Sits down beside him]
Your affairs must also be thought about, and not left anyhow.

NIKÍTA. What affairs?

MATRYÓNA. Why, this affair--how you're to live your life.

NIKÍTA. How to live my life? Others live, and I shall live!

MATRYÓNA. The old man will probably die to-day.

NIKÍTA. Well, if he dies, God give him rest! What's that to me?

MATRYÓNA [keeps looking towards the porch while she speaks] Eh, sonnie!
Those that are alive have to think about living. One needs plenty of
sense in these matters, honey. What do you think? I've tramped all over
the place after your affairs, I've got quite footsore bothering about
matters. And you must not forget me when the time comes.

NIKÍTA. And what's it you've been bothering about?

MATRYÓNA. About your affairs, about your future. If you don't take
trouble in good time you'll get nothing. You know Iván Moséitch? Well,
I've been to him too. I went there the other day. I had something else
to settle, you know. Well, so I sat and chatted awhile and then came to
the point. "Tell me, Iván Moséitch," says I, "how's one to manage an
affair of this kind? Supposing," says I, "a peasant as is a widower
married a second wife, and supposing all the children he has is a
daughter by the first wife, and a daughter by the second. Then," says I,
"when that peasant dies, could an outsider get hold of the homestead by
marrying the widow? Could he," says I, "give both the daughters in
marriage and remain master of the house himself?" "Yes, he could," says
he, "but," says he, "it would mean a deal of trouble; still the thing
could be managed by means of money, but if there's no money it's no good
trying."

NIKÍTA [laughs] That goes without saying, only fork out the money. Who
does not want money?

MATRYÓNA. Well then, honey, so I spoke out plainly about the affair. And
he says, "First and foremost, your son will have to get himself on the
register of that village--that will cost something. The elders will have
to be treated. And they, you see, they'll sign. Everything," says he,
"must be done sensibly." Look, [unwraps her kerchief and takes out a
paper] he's written out this paper; just read it, you're a scholar, you
know. [Nikíta reads].

NIKÍTA. This paper's only a decision for the elders to sign. There's no
great wisdom needed for that.

MATRYÓNA. But you just hear what Iván Moséitch bids us do. "Above all,"
he says, "mind and don't let the money slip away, dame. If she don't get
hold of the money," he says, "they'll not let her do it. Money's the
great thing!" So look out, sonnie, things are coming to a head.

NIKÍTA. What's that to me? The money's hers--so let her look out.

MATRYÓNA. Ah, sonnie, how you look at it! How can a woman manage such
affairs? Even if she does get the money, is she capable of arranging it
all? One knows what a woman is! You're a man anyhow. You can hide it,
and all that. You see, you've after all got more sense, in case of
anything happening.

NIKÍTA. Oh, your woman's notions are all so inexpedient!

MATRYÓNA. Why inexpedient? You just collar the money, and the woman's in
your hands. And then should she ever turn snappish you'd be able to
tighten the reins!

NIKÍTA. Bother you all,--I'm going.

ANÍSYA [quite pale, runs out of the hut and round the corner to
Matryóna] So it was, it was on him! Here it is! [Shows that she has
something under her apron].

MATRYÓNA. Give it to Nikíta, he'll hide it. Nikíta, take it and hide it
somewhere.

NIKÍTA. All right, give here!

ANÍSYA. O-oh, my poor head! No, I'd better do it myself. [Goes towards
the gate].

MATRYÓNA [seizing her by the arm] Where are you going to? You'll be
missed. There's the sister coming; give it him; he knows what to do. Eh,
you blockhead!

ANÍSYA [stops irresolutely] Oh, my head, my head!

NIKÍTA. Well, give it here. I'll shove it away somewhere.

ANÍSYA. Where will you shove it to?

NIKÍTA [laughing] Why, are you afraid?

    Enter Akoulína, carrying clothes from the wash.

ANÍSYA. O-oh, my poor head! [Gives the money] Mind, Nikíta.

NIKÍTA. What are you afraid of? I'll hide it so that I'll not be able to
find it myself. [Exit].

ANÍSYA [stands in terror] Oh dear, and supposing he ...

MATRYÓNA. Well, is he dead?

ANÍSYA. Yes, he seems dead. He did not move when I took it.

MATRYÓNA. Go in, there's Akoulína.

ANÍSYA. Well there, I've done the sin and he has the money....

MATRYÓNA. Have done and go in! There's Martha coming!

Within five minutes he was offered an advance of twenty-five pounds
for his bargain, which put him in good humor, though he declined it.

I may as well say here, since we are soon to bid farewell to
Bendigo, that the claim yielded him double the amount of his investment,
and though this was not up to his expectations, he had no reason
to regret his purchase.

The little crowd of miners were just separating when two new-comers
appeared on the scene.

They were the well-matched pair who had met earlier in the morning
at the deserted cabin.

For convenience' sake we will call them Colson and Ropes, the former
being the man who had stolen the nugget, as he supposed.

"What's all this crowd?" said Colson in a tone of curiosity.

Ropes put the question to Tom Lewis, who chanced to be passing.

"Haven't you heard about the nugget?"

  asked Lewis.
  

    "What nugget?" asked Colson innocently.
    
    "That slab-sided Yankee, Obed Stackpole, found a nugget last night--a
regular monster--and he's been selling his claim.

I bid for it, but I didn't bid high enough."

"Where's the nugget?" asked Colson eagerly.

                                "In charge of the commissioner, who will send it under escort to
Melbourne."

Colson expected this intelligence.

    Still he looked downcast. The chance of getting hold of it under such
    circumstances seemed very small.

"What did the claim go for?" questioned Ropes.

"Three hundred pounds. Frank Scott bought it."

"That's a pretty steep price."
"Yes, but there may be another nugget." 
"And there may not."
"Then he'll be a loser. Of course there's a risk."
"Is the Yankee going to stay around here?" asked Colson.
"No; he and the two boys are going to Melbourne. I believe they are
going back to America."MÍTRITCH. Must have been on the spree. Oh Lord!

ANÍSYA. Have you finished in the stackyard?

MÍTRITCH. What d'you think? Got it all as it should be, and covered
everything with straw! I don't like doing things by halves! Oh Lord!
holy Nicholas! [Picks at the corns on his hands] But it's time he was
back.

ANÍSYA. What need has he to hurry? He's got money. Merry-making with
that girl, I daresay ...

MÍTRITCH. Why shouldn't one make merry if one has the money? And why did
Akoulína go to town?

ANÍSYA. You'd better ask her. How do I know what the devil took her
there!

MÍTRITCH. What! to town? There's all sorts of things to be got in town
if one's got the means. Oh Lord!

NAN. Mother, I heard myself. "I'll get you a little shawl," he says,
blest if he didn't; "you shall choose it yourself," he says. And she got
herself up so fine; she put on her velveteen coat and the French shawl.

ANÍSYA. Really, a girl's modesty reaches only to the door. Step over the
threshold and it's forgotten. She is a shameless creature.

MÍTRITCH. Oh my! What's the use of being ashamed? While there's plenty
of money make merry. Oh Lord! It is too soon to have supper, eh? [Anísya
does not answer] I'll go and get warm meanwhile. [Climbs on the stove]
Oh Lord! Blessed Virgin Mother! holy Nicholas!

NEIGHBOUR [enters] Seems your goodman's not back yet?

ANÍSYA. No.

NEIGHBOUR. It's time he was. Hasn't he perhaps stopped at our inn? My
sister, Thekla, says there's heaps of sledges standing there as have
come from the town.

ANÍSYA. Nan! Nan, I say!

NAN. Yes?

ANÍSYA. You run to the inn and see! Mayhap, being drunk, he's gone
there.

NAN [jumps down from the oven and dresses] All right.

NEIGHBOUR. And he's taken Akoulína with him?

But we came near losin' it, after all."
"How's that?" Colson asked, but he did not venture to meet Obed's
glance.

"Some skunk saw us bringin' back the nugget, and prowled round till
he thought we was all asleep. Then he got into the cabin and carried
it off.[Silence].

NAN [at the door] And if he's there, what am I to say?

ANÍSYA. You only see if he's there.

NAN. All right. I'll be back in a winking. [Long silence].

MÍTRITCH [roars] Oh Lord! merciful Nicholas!

NEIGHBOUR [starting] Oh, how he scared me? Who is it?

ANÍSYA. Why, Mítritch, our labourer.

NEIGHBOUR. Oh dear, oh dear, what a fright he did give me! I had quite
forgotten. But tell me, dear, I've heard someone's been wooing
Akoulína?

ANÍSYA [gets up from the loom and sits down by the table] There was some
one from Dédlovo; but it seems the affair's got wind there too. They
made a start, and then stopped; so the thing fell through. Of course,
who'd care to?

NEIGHBOUR. And the Lizounófs from Zoúevo?

ANÍSYA. They made some steps too, but it didn't come off either. They
won't even see us.

NEIGHBOUR. Yet it's time she was married.

ANÍSYA. asked Jack, who was not very well acquainted with any but United
States currency.

"It is equal to ten thousand dollars," answered Harry.

"That's a big pile of money," said Jack, his eyes sparkling.

"True, but we mustn't expect to be so fortunate. It isn't everybody
who succeeds as well as that."

"I should be satisfied with a thousand, Harry."

"And what would you do with it, Jack?"
"Convey it home to my mother, Harry. But I would fix it so that my
step-father couldn't get hold of it."

"You are a good boy, Jack, for thinking so much of your mother. I
wish I had a mother to provide for," and Harry Vane looked sober.
"Do you know how far off Bendigo is, Harry?" 
"About a hundred miles.ANÍSYA. Ah, how hard it is to bear such treatment from him! Oh, how it
hurts!

NEIGHBOUR. Yes, and I've heard say he's becoming too free with his
fists?

ANÍSYA. And that too! There was a time when he was gentle when he'd had
a drop. He used to hit out before, but of me he was always fond! But now
when he's in a temper he goes for me and is ready to trample me under
his feet. The other day he got both hands entangled in my hair so that I
could hardly get away. And the girl's worse than a serpent; it's a
wonder the earth bears such furies.

NEIGHBOUR. Ah, ah, my dear, now I look at you, you are a sufferer! To
suffer like that is no joke. To have given shelter to a beggar, and he
to lead you such a dance! Why don't you pull in the reins?

ANÍSYA. Ah, but my dear, if it weren't for my heart! Him as is gone was
stern enough, still I could twist him about any way I liked; but with
this one I can do nothing. As soon as I see him all my anger goes. I
haven't a grain of courage before him; I go about like a drowned hen.

NEIGHBOUR. Ah, neighbour, you must be under a spell. I've heard that
Matryóna goes in for that sort of thing. It must be her.

ANÍSYA. Yes, dear; I think so myself sometimes. Gracious me, how hurt I
feel at times! I'd like to tear him to pieces. But when I set eyes on
him, my heart won't go against him.

NEIGHBOUR. It's plain you're bewitched. It don't take long to blight a
body. There now, when I look at you, what you have dwindled to!

