Percy allowed himself to be herded through the open door; it might have
been noticed, however, that he was careful not to turn his back to Jabe,
and that he stepped springily, with his feet well apart. Once inside,
he slid his sole over the hayseed that covered the floor; it was no
slipperier than the carpet of needles in that glade of the evergreens
where he had practised daily with his improvised punching-bag since the
second week in July. A quick glance about photographed on his brain the
details of the arena in which he was so soon to play the gladiator.

Jabe misunderstood the glance, and it increased his eagerness to begin
the fray.

"Afraid, are you?" he sneered. "Looking for some way out? Well, there
isn't any besides this door. Line up across it, boys, and trip him if he
tries to bolt before I get through with him. The rat's cornered at last,
and now he's _got_ to fight. Peel off that coat, Mister! Move quick. I
don't want to stop here all day!"

Percy deliberately drew off the garment, folded it into a neat bundle,
and laid it, with his cap, on a barrel in a corner of the floor. He had
on a closely fitting black jersey, trousers held up by a belt, and
rubber-soled tennis sneakers. This costume was not accidental. It had
been donned that morning with an eye to possibilities and in accordance
with previous solitary rehearsals. Thus far, events could not have
suited him better if he had planned them.

His deliberate motions increased Jabe's anger.

"You'll move faster than that when I get after you," he sneered, "or
it'll be over so quick that there won't be any fun in it. Now put up
your fists, for I'm going to lick you within an inch of your life! Guard
that door, boys!"

His grinning satellites lined up across the opening, two deep, eyes and
mouths wide open. In the front rank Percy recognized the imp who had
burnt his coat, Jabe's brother, whose chastisement had started the
trouble. The lad was dancing up and down with pleasurable anticipation.

"Lick him, Jabe!" he shrilled. "Lick him, Jabe!"

Swinging his clenched fists windmill fashion, Jabe made a savage rush
across the echoing floor. Percy waited until his foe was almost upon
him, then agilely leaped to one side. Carried on by the momentum of his
charge, Jabe swept by and smashed against the wooden partition with a
violence that set the hayseed sifting down from the loaded mow. Whirling
about, he came back with increased rage.

The boys yelled encouragement to their champion, their voices blending
in a chorus, topped by his brother's high-keyed falsetto:

"Lick him, Jabe! Lick him, Jabe!"

Baffled in his first attempt, Jabe needed no applause to incite him to
his best efforts. His fists rose and fell like flails as he spurned the
flooring in a second onslaught upon his nimble foe. Again Percy,
standing motionless until his assailant was almost within arm's-length,
avoided his attack; and again Jabe brought up against the other wall
with a force that made the boards rattle.

Percy stood untouched a few feet away, smiling slightly, as his opponent
gathered himself for another rush. The sight of his enemy, cool and
unruffled, made Jabe furious.

"Why don't you fight, you coward?" he cried. "If only I can reach you
just once, it'll be all over!"

He hurled himself forward like a missile from a catapult. His right
fist grazed Percy's cheek. Roused from his policy of inaction, Percy
shot in a stinging blow that found its mark under Jabe's right ear and
sent him staggering. The fight was now fairly on.

To and fro across the slippery hayseed the antagonists battled, raising
a cloud of dust. The floor echoed hollowly under their quick tread.

From the outset Percy knew that he had not a single sympathizer. But
instead of discouraging him, that fact nerved him to do his utmost. He
kept himself well in hand and did not waste an effort. If he could
continue to side-step Jabe's quick rushes, and let the latter tire
himself out, the fight was as good as won.

It was a very different battle from that on July 4th. Jabe was as good
as before, but no better; while Percy had improved at least a hundred
per cent.; he had more skill and his nerves and muscles were far
stronger. His rubber soles, too, gave him an advantage that he was not
slow to improve. They assured him firm footing on the slippery floor and
enabled him to turn quickly, as without trying to strike he contented
himself with eluding Jabe's mad charges and sledge-hammer blows.

The audience that blocked the door had grown silent. Things were not
going according to schedule. After the first few rushes they had
realized that their hero was getting the worst of the encounter.

Ten minutes had gone by. Jabe was breathing hard, while Percy was fresh
as ever. His cool smile maddened his antagonist and made him less
skilful. In one of his onsets he had slammed his doubled fist against
the wooden partition and split his knuckles; the pain and the running
blood made him wild with rage.

Confident at first of easy victory, he had finally realized that Percy
was playing with him, that he had met his master in the boxing-game. His
face had shown in turn anger, surprise, alarm, and at last positive
fear. But one thought possessed his mind, to win at any cost, by fair
means or foul. His rushes, which had slackened, grew more violent. He
came at Percy head down; he tried to crowd him into a corner, to throw
his arms around him, to overpower him by sheer, brute strength.

Percy realized that in a rough-and-tumble he would be no match for Jabe.
In legitimate boxing he had shown himself his foe's superior; and he was
not particularly anxious to emphasize that fact by blacking Jabe's eyes
or "bloodying" his nose. He would have been willing to let the matter
stand where it was or allow Jabe to wear himself fruitlessly down to
exhaustion. But such a course was neither feasible nor safe. Jabe would
never voluntarily acknowledge that he was beaten. Besides, there was
always the chance of something happening to put Percy at his mercy; and
Percy knew only too well what that mercy would be.

His only safety was to force a clear-cut decision.

"It's a case of knock-out," he decided. "No use to bruise him up. Might
as well have it over quick!"

Savagely, though somewhat wearily, yet with undaunted determination,
Jabe rushed him and struck out with his left. For the first time in the
battle Percy launched in with all his strength. He cross-countered with
his right on the point of Jabe's jaw.

It was the wind-up. Jabe hit the hayseed in a heap. For a few seconds he
lay motionless, then struggled to a sitting position.

"Got enough?" asked Percy.

Jabe took the count.

"I'm licked," he acknowledged; and there were tears in his voice.

"Can I do anything for you?"

"No; I'll be all right in a little while."

Percy put on his coat and cap and started toward the door. As he passed
Jabe the latter stretched out his hand.

"You can fight," he conceded, grudging admiration in his tones.

Percy grasped the bunch of stubby fingers.

"So can you," he returned. "If you'd been to the masters I've had, I
wouldn't care to mix it with you."

The boys opened a way for him respectfully as he passed through the
door. He was breathing a little quicker than usual, but he had not
received a scratch. Going back to the wharf where they had landed, he
found that Budge had been waiting for him almost fifteen minutes.

"What makes you so late, Perce?" he hailed. "We want to ship these
groceries and start for Tarpaulin before noon."

Percy began passing the boxes and bags down aboard the dory.

"Sorry to have kept you waiting," he apologized. "But I've just been
settling an account with an old friend.