After some further interesting investigation they returned to the camp,
for very naturally they were all anxious to get some word from the
hunters and the dogs.  Fortunately they had not long to wait, for very
soon after their return the expected ones dashed into their midst.  On
their sleds they had three dead wolverines.  The dogs had returned
panting and tired.  They were all in good shape, except Bruce and
another one of Alec's train.  These, in battle with the wolverines, had
each received a couple of severe flesh wounds, but they seemed to think
nothing of them, and in a short time they completely healed up.
Everybody was, of course, anxious to hear their story, and so one of the
hunters was asked to be the spokesman for the whole, and here is about
what he said:

"You all know how we started.  You boys set your dogs on the tracks, and
away they went and we after, as fast as we could follow.  The dogs could
travel much faster than we could, and so it was not long before they
were out of hearing.  The wolverines must have got a good start, as it
was a long time before we found any trace of them.  But we pushed on as
fast as it was possible for us to do in the darkness.  Sometimes the
northern lights shone out, and then we made very much better time.  By
and by we came to a half-eaten beaver that had been dropped by one of
the thieves.  This told us that the dogs must be driving them very
close, for a wolverine will make a big fight, before he will give up
what he has secured.  Still on we hurried, and it was not long after
this before we heard the dogs again.  Then we found another of the
skinned beavers, and now the barkings of the dogs told us that the fight
was on in good earnest.

"We had been so much hindered by the dense woods, that was the reason we
were so far behind, but now, as we came out from a bad piece of the
forest, right there before us was a sight to please us for our anger at
the loss of the beaver.  The dogs had driven one wolverine up into the
branches of a large tree, while others were barking furiously at two
others which they had chased up among some steep rocks.  It was at this
time, just as we reached them, that some of the dogs got cut and
wounded.  They seemed to be so glad to see us coming to their help that
they made a furious attack upon the two that were upon the rocks, and
some of them were taught that wolverines have sharp teeth and know well
how to use them.

"We speedily shot these three animals, and then began at once to look
for the tracks of the other two.  After some time we found them, and in
following them up we soon saw that they had reached the great cliffs,
among which are their dens.  We could not then hope for much more
success.  So we returned to the spot where we had left the three dead
ones, and were just about beginning to skin them when the sleds arrived,
and it was thought best, after we had had something to eat from the
supplies Mr Ross was so good as to send us, for us all to return, and
here we are."

This was the story, and it showed quick, sharp, thorough work on the
part of both men and dogs.  This long delay had caused quite a break in
their plans.  Mr Ross, however, decided that just as soon as the
wolverines could be skinned, and dinner prepared and eaten, the home
journey must be resumed.  Some of the party would have preferred to have
remained until the next day before starting, but Memotas sarcastically
remarked that they had better go on for fear some more wolverines might
come and carry away the rest of the beavers!  It is a remarkable fact,
and one interesting to study, that the Indians are much more bitter and
sarcastic on each other for any act of carelessness in capturing or
securing their game, than for any other defect or folly.

The homeward journey was soon resumed, and after travelling about twenty
miles the winter camp was prepared.  Fortunate was it for them that they
were able to find a favourable place in the very midst of a large
quantity of dry trees.  So warm and invigorating was the work of cutting
down these tall dry trees that not only did the boys, but several of the
men, as they said, for the fun of it, slash away until an unusually
large number had thus been made ready for the fire.

The owners of the beavers were not to be caught napping again, and so
they erected a kind of a staging near to the camp, on which the valuable
loads of meat and furs were safely placed.  Memotas had to have another
drive or two at them, and so he ironically congratulated them on their
late precautions.  Sam said it looked like the old proverb of locking
your stable after the horse was stolen.  Alec's more charitable remark
was, "It is best to be made wise by the loss, and then strive to save
the rest."

Yes, indeed, it was a wise precaution, for even now, while the men were
thus hard at work and others were thus discussing their actions, far
back on the trail hungry and cruel enemies have caught the rich scent of
the beaver, and with long, louping strides are rapidly drawing near.
Supper and prayers were over, and the men had nicely tucked in the boys
in their warm bed.  Before lying down themselves they had as usual lit
their pipes and were having a quiet chat over the usual incidents of the
day.  With a sudden start they were all on their feet in an instant, for
coming down on the wind, in the direction in which they had so recently
travelled, they heard a sound so blood-curdling and so ominous that it
has chilled the very heart and caused the cheeks to blanch of many a
stout-hearted traveller, the howlings of a pack of wolves!

Winter Adventures of Three Boys--by Egerton R.  Young


CHAPTER NINETEEN.

THE COMING BATTLE WITH THE WOLVES--THOROUGH PREPARATIONS--THE CRY OF THE
WOLVES FOR REINFORCEMENTS--THE FIRST ATTACK AND REPULSE--WOUNDED WOLVES
DEVOURED--MEMOTAS'S COMMENTS--THE SECOND ATTACK--THE POWDER EXPLOSIONS--
FINAL VICTORY--DOGS RELUCTANT TO ATTACK WOLVES--EXPLANATIONS--MR. ROSS'S
STORY OF THE BEARS STEALING HIS PIGS--DOGS MORE CONFIDENT IN ATTACKING
BEARS.

The Indians very quickly aroused Mr Ross, who at once realised the
danger that menaced them.  The Indians, prompt to act in such
emergencies, had already begun their preparations to meet the oncoming
foes.  They had seized their axes, and were already hard at work cutting
down more trees, that there might be an additional supply of wood with
which the fire could be kept brilliantly burning.  Some of the men were
busily engaged in getting the guns and ammunition ready and in making
other arrangements that would aid to success in the approaching battle.

To Mr Ross the Indians left the work of calling up the boys and
informing them of the coming danger.  This he speedily did, and great
was their surprise when informed of the fact that in all probability
they were in for a fierce battle with an unknown number of savage
wolves.

To judge by their howlings the wolves were still a long distance from
the camp.  The hearing of the Indians is very acute, and when the
temperature is down so low that the mercury is frozen, sounds are heard
very much more distinctly, and from a greater distance, than under
ordinary atmospheric conditions.  Thus there was fortunately a little
time for preparation ere they would have to meet the fierce assault.

The boys were each urged to quickly put the harness on their own dogs
and bring them into the camp, which was rapidly being enlarged.  The old
dogs, that had a wholesome dread of wolves, were, it was thought, wise
enough to look after themselves.  Before even Mr Ross and the boys had
heard the wolves, the old dogs had detected falling on their ears the
melancholy sound, and trembling with fear they came crowding into the
camp, and to the feet of their different drivers.

Trees were fallen all around, under the vigorous blows of the choppers,
and were being cut into lengths that could be carried in.  Three or four
men would seize hold of these great dry logs and speedily bring them
into the position which they well knew would be to the best advantage.
The sleds were rearranged, and so placed that logs could be piled on
them.  The harnesses were all hung high, and everything made as secure
as possible.  Wolves are afraid of fire, and so now it was that on this
fire the Indians were going mainly to depend.  Already the men had
thrown a number of fresh logs on the fire, as well as extended it out in
crescent shape to the right and left.  Behind the camp they cut down a
number of the trees, so placing them that they made a natural barricade
as they crashed into each other.  It was not at all wolf-proof, but it
would prevent a rush attack, and those bold enough to try to venture
through could be easily seen and shot.

About five hundred yards from the camp the trail made quite an ascent
ere the camp was reached.  Up to the moment when the wolves reached the
top of this ascent they had travelled altogether by the strong scent of
the castoreum which is found in the body of the beaver, and which had
most thoroughly perfumed the whole party, dogs, men, and outfit.  As the
brilliant fire now for the first moment was seen by them, their howlings
suddenly ceased, and it was evident that they were very much perplexed.

"Bothered are you?" chuckled Memotas, as he carefully examined his gun.
"Wanted beaver, did you, and prepared to take it raw, and now it looks
as though, if you get it, you will have to take it hot? come on for it,
if you dare."

These sarcastic words were helpful to the boys, who had worked
splendidly under Mr Ross's guidance.  There was no doubt about it that
the boys were excited.  Alec, whose fearful race against such monsters
came visibly before him, was agitated, yet he bravely did everything
desired of him, and felt that he was in for another triumph.  It is no
sign of cowardice to be conscious of the danger to be faced.  The
bravest of the brave are those who realise the greatness of the task
before them, and then unflinchingly face it, to conquer or to die.

Unfortunately, on this trip the boys had not brought with them their
guns.  However, before starting Mr Ross had seen that one apiece for
each of his men, including Memotas, with abundance of ammunition, was
placed upon the sleds.  The hunters fortunately had an extra gun with
them, and this was handed to Mr Ross.

"I wonder what conspiracy they are hatching now," said Memotas, as the
wolves continued so strangely silent.

"Nothing that bodes any good to us," replied Mr Ross.  He had been in
critical positions like this before, and now as the scent of battle once
more was on him he handed his gun with pleasure and rejoiced in the
excitement of the hour.  He would have been glad if the boys had been
safe at Sagasta-weekee, for as yet it was utterly impossible to form any
estimate of their as yet unseen foes' numbers, or to judge of the
fierceness of the attack which they would shortly make.

For about half an hour this strange, unnatural stillness continued, and
then there broke upon their ears a horrid din that seemed to come from
every point in the compass around them.  Although the sound was some
distance off, yet so blood-curdling was it that the boys were startled,
and Alec pulled his fur cap down over his ears in a vain endeavour to
shut out the horrid sounds.  The dogs seemed at first to try and answer
this noisy challenge, but soon their courage sadly oozed out, and they
tremblingly huddled together in the camp, or close to their masters'
feet.

To the boys' amazement, the Indians unconcernedly put down their guns,
and taking up their pipes began to smoke.  Turning to the boys, Mr Ross
said:

"You had all better lie down and sleep, for we are not going to be
troubled with the wolves for a good while."

"Why, dare we do that," said Frank, "when the wolves are now all around
us?"

"Yes," said Mr Ross, "that last cry we heard was from different points
around us, but it was not the challenge of immediate attack, but a call
sent out for reinforcements.  Every wolf within ten miles of us heard
that far-reaching cry, and is galloping in this direction."

"That means," said Sam, "that every wolf within four hundred miles of us
is mustering for the fight?"

"Precisely," said Alec, "if you square the circle."

It was rather trying for the boys to be asked to lie down and go to
sleep under such circumstances, yet they promptly obeyed the request of
those they knew would only give them the best of advice.  Strange as it
may appear to some, our brave boys were soon sound asleep, and when,
about an hour after they were called up again, they found themselves
refreshed and doubly nerved for the coming conflict.

The subdued howlings of the wolves were again distinctly heard, and it
was the opinion of the Indians that they were holding a big council to
decide on the plan of their attack.  Knowing so well their methods, it
was the opinion of them all that the heaviest assault would be on the
leeward side, as there the wind carried the strong scent from the
castoreum and the meat.  To impede them in their rush if they should try
that method of attack, a couple of Indians with their axes ventured out
in that direction and cut down a number of trees, which they caused to
fall in such a way that the wolves, when approaching, would be delayed
by them, and thus render it easier for them to be shot.  While these men
were thus chopping, in that advanced position of danger, others with
loaded guns stood not far behind as their defenders.  However, they were
not disturbed except by one skulking fellow, that was doubtless acting
as a scout.  When he saw that he was discovered, he quickly retreated
back in the gloom of the forest.

The increasing din and the more confident yelps told the men, who,
living in the forest, had become familiar with the various sounds and
calls of the wild beasts, that reinforcements were coming in, and that
the attack would soon be made.

The camp could muster ten guns.  Six of these were doubled-barrelled,
but they were all muzzle-loaders.  When the boys were aroused the second
time they were each given small-sized axes as their weapons of defence,
in case the battle should reach the camp, which, however, was not
anticipated.  In addition they were expected to keep the dogs together,
and soothe and quiet them as much as possible.

Noticing some peculiar rolls of birch bark well back from the fire, on
which Memotas was keeping a careful eye, Sam inquired what they were,
and was interested to learn that they were a kind of improvised hand
grenade, made by Memotas, to be used if the wolves should strive to come
too close.  They each contained two or more pounds of powder, and if
they did but little execution they would at least add to the noise and
excitement.

At the request of all the men Mr Ross was appointed as captain, whose
word was to be obeyed by all.  That he might be able to wisely direct
the men to the points where the attack seemed to be most directed, a
scaffold of logs was hurriedly erected on the windward side of the camp.
So abundant was the supply of wood that the fire was kept burning so
brightly that Mr Ross, from his elevated position, could see quite a
distance into the forest in every direction.

