She could look him in the face now and prevaricate without any shame or
compunction at all.  "That fifty pounds--that!  Why, I used it to buy my
ticket for Canada.  My husband ought to pay my expenses out to him."

He laughed greatly.  All Ireland was rioting in his veins now.  He had no
logic or reasoning left.  "Well, that's the way to get into your old
man's heart, Mona.  To think of that!  I call it tact divine.  Everything
has spun my way at last.  I was right about that Derby, after all.  It
was in my bones that I'd make a pot out of it, but I thought I had lost
it all when Flamingo went down."

"You never know your luck--you used to say that, Shiel."

"I say it again.  Come, we must tell our friends--Kitty, her mother, and
the Young Doctor.  You don't know what good friends they have been to me,
mavourneen."

"Yes, I think I do," said Mona, opening the door to the outer room.

Then Crozier called with a great, cheery voice--what Mona used to call
his tally-ho voice.  Mrs. Tynan appeared, smiling.  She knew at a glance
what had happened.  It was so interesting that she could even forgive
Mona.

"Where's Kitty?" asked Crozier, almost boisterously.

"She has gone for a ride with John Sibley," answered Mrs. Tynan.

"Look, there she is!" said Mona, laying a hand on Crozier's arm, and
pointing with the other out over the prairie.

Crozier looked out towards the northwestern horizon, and in the distance
was a woman riding as hard as her horse could go, with a man galloping
hard after her.  It seemed as though they were riding into the sunset.

"She's riding the horse you won that race with years ago when you first
came here, Mr. Crozier," said Mrs. Tynan.  "John Sibley bought it from
Mr. Brennan."

Mona did not see the look which came into Crozier's face as, with one
hand shading his eyes and the other grasping the banknotes which were to
start him in life again, independent and self-respecting, he watched the
girl riding on and on, ever ahead of the man.

It was at that moment the Young Doctor entered the room, and he
distracted Mona's attention for a moment.  Going forward to him Mona
shook him warmly by the hand.  Then she went up to Mrs. Tynan and kissed
her.

"I would like to kiss your daughter too, Mrs. Tynan," Mona said.  .  .  .
"What are you looking at so hard, Shiel?" Hiram can bring you down
after it has begun; and you may sit in the vestry till the clerk
calls you.

I'll preach a short sermon to-night," with a benignant chuckle.

He had his will.

Some feeling that it would please Mrs. Sloman best, the only person besides
ourselves whom it concerned us to please, settled it in Bessie's mind,
although she anxiously inquired several times before the doctor
left if I felt equal to going to church.

Suppose I should faint on the way?

I was equal to it, for I took a long nap on the sofa in Mrs.

Splinter's parlor through the soft spring twilight, while Bessie held
what seemed to me interminable conferences with Mary Jane.

It was not a brilliant ceremony so far as the groom was concerned.
As we stood at the chancel-rail I am afraid that the congregation, largely
augmented, by this time, by late-comers--for the doctor had spread the
news through the village far and wide--thought me but a very pale and
quiet bridegroom.

But the bride's beauty made amends for all.

Just the same soft white dress of the afternoon--or was it one like it?--with
no ornaments, no bridal veil. I have always pitied men who have to
plight their troth to a moving mass of lace and tulle, weighed down
with orange-blossoms massive as lead.

This was my own little wife as she would walk by my side through life,
dressed as she might be the next day and always.

But the next day it was the tartan cloak that she wore, by special
request, as we climbed the hill to the Ledge. It was spring indeed--bluebirds
in the air, and all the sky shone clear and warm.

"Let _me_ begin," said my wife as she took her old seat under the sheltering
pine. "You can't have anything to say, Charlie, in comparison with me."

There was a short preliminary pause, and then she began.

CHAPTER XII.

         "Well, after you wouldn't take me to Europe, you know--"
          
          "You naughty girl!"
          "No interruptions, sir.

After you _couldn't_ take me to Europe I felt very much hurt and wounded,
and ready to catch at any straw of suspicion. I ran away from you that
night and left you in the parlor, hoping that you would call me
back, and yet longing to hide myself from you too.

You understand?"
"Yes, let us not dwell on that."
"Well, I believe I never thought once of Fanny Meyrick's going to Europe
too until she joined us on the road that day--you remember?

--at the washerwoman's gate."
"Yes; and do _you_ remember how Fidget and I barked at her with all our
hearts?"
"I was piqued then at the air of ownership Fanny seemed to assume
in you. She had just come to Lenox, I knew; she could know nothing
of our intimacy, our relations; and this seemed like the renewal
of something old--something that had been going on before. Had she
any claim on you? I wondered. And then, too, you were so provokingly
reticent about her whenever her name had been mentioned before."

"Was I? What a fool I was! But, Bessie dear, I could not say to
even you, then, that I believed Fanny Meyrick was in--cared a great
deal for me."
"I understand," said Bessie nodding. "We'll skip that, and take it
for granted. But you see _I_ couldn't take anything for granted but
just what I saw that day; and the little memorandum-book and Fanny's
reminiscences nearly killed me."I've got news--news, news!" he exclaimed, wading through his own
perspiration to where she sat.  "I can guess what it is," the girl
remarked smilingly, as she reached out a hand to him, but remained
seated.  "It's a real, live baby born to Lydia, wife of Methuselah, the
woman also being of goodly years.  It is, isn't it."

"The fattest, finest, most 'scrumpshus' son of all the ages that ever--"

Kitty laughed happily and very whimsically.  "Like none since Moses was
found among the bulrushes!  Where was this one found, and what do you
intend to call him--Jesse, after his 'pa'?"

"No--nothing so common.  He's to be called Shiel--Shiel Crozier Bulrush,
that's to be his name."

The face of the girl became a shade pensive now.  "Oh!  And do you think
you can guarantee that he will be worth the name?  Do you never think
what his father is?"

"I'm starting him right with that name.  I can do so much, anyway,"
laughed the imperturbable one.  "And Mrs. Bulrush, after her great
effort--how is she?

"Flying--simply flying.  Earth not good enough for her.  Simply flying.
But here--here is more news.  Guess what--it's for you.  I've just come
from the post office, and they said there was an English letter for you,
so I brought it."

He handed it over.  She laid it in her lap and waited as though for him
to go.

"Can't I hear how he is?  He's the best man that ever crossed my path,"
he said.

"It happens to be in his wife's, not his, handwriting--did ever such a
scrap of a woman write so sprawling a hand!" she replied, holding the
letter up.

"But she'll let us know in the letter how Crozier is, won't she?"

Kitty had now recovered herself, and slowly she opened the envelope and
took out the letter.  As she did so something fluttered to the ground.

Jesse Bulrush picked it up.  "That looks nice," he said, and he whistled
in surprise.  "It's a money-draft on a bank."

Kitty, whose eyes were fixed on the big, important handwriting, answered
calmly and without apparently looking, as she took the paper from his
hand: "Yes, it's a wedding present--five hundred dollars to buy what I
like best for my home.  So she says."

"Mrs. Crozier, of course."

"Of course."

"Well, that's magnificent.  What will you do with it?"

Kitty rose and held out her hand.  "Go back to your flying partner, happy
man, and ask her what she would do with five hundred dollars if she had
it."

"She'd buy her lord and master a present with it, of course," he
answered.

"Good-bye, Mr. Rolypoly," she responded, laughing.  "You always could
think of things for other people to do; and have never done anything
yourself until now.  Good-bye, father."

When he was gone and out of sight her face changed.  With sudden anger
she crushed and crumpled up the draft for five hundred in her hand.  "'A
token of affection from both!'" she exclaimed, quoting from the letter.
"One lone leaf of Irish shamrock from him would--"

She stopped.  "But he will send a message of his own," she continued.
"He will--he will.  Even if he doesn't, I'll know that he remembers just
the same.  He does--he does remember."

She drew herself up with an effort, and, as it were, shook herself free
from the memories which dimmed her eyes.

Not far away a man was riding towards the clump of trees where she was.
She saw, and hastened to her horse.

"If I told John all I feel he'd understand.  I believe he always has
understood," she added with a far-off look.

The draft was still crushed in her hand when she mounted the beloved
horse, whose name now was Shiel.

Presently she smoothed out the crumpled paper.  "Yes, I'll take it; I'll
put it by," she murmured.  "John will keep on betting.  He'll be broke
some day and he'll need it, maybe."

A moment later she was riding hard to meet the man who, before the wheat-
harvest came, would call her wife.


ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

He saw what he wished to see, which is the way of man
Searchers after excuses for ungoverned instincts and acts
Telling the unnecessary truth
What isn't never was to those that never knew


ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS FOR THE ENTIRE "NEVER KNOW YOUR LUCK":

And I was very lucky--worse luck!
Anny man as is a man has to have one vice
God help the man that's afraid of his own wife!
He saw what he wished to see, which is the way of man
Her moral standard had not a multitude of delicate punctilios
Law's delays outlasted even the memory of the crime committed
Searchers after excuses for ungoverned instincts and acts
Sensitive souls, however, are not so many as to crowd each other
She looked too gay to be good
Telling the unnecessary truth
They had seen the world through the bottom of a tumbler
What isn't never was to those that never knew


WILD YOUTH

By Gilbert Parker


Volume 1.
I.        THE MAZARINES TAKE POSSESSION
II.       "MY NAME IS LOUISE"
III.      "I HAVE FOUGHT WITH BEASTS AT EPHESUS"
IV.       TWO SIDES TO A BARGAIN
V.        ORLANDO HAS AN ADVENTURE
VI.       Some wretched mistake:

the woman does not know what she's
talking about. These Splinters!

they seem
to have had some communication
with Mrs. Sloman:
they will know.

Mrs. Splinter, a neat, bright-eyed woman of about
twenty-five, opened the
door at my somewhat peremptory
knock. I recollected her
in a moment as a familiar face--some laundress or auxiliary of the
Sloman family in some way; and she seemed to recognize me as well:
"Why!

it's Mr.

Munro!

Walk in, sir, and sit down," dusting off a chair with her apron as
she spoke.

"Miss Stewart--where is she? _You_ know."
"Miss Stewart?" said the woman, sinking down into a chair and looking
greatly disturbed. "Miss Stewart's gone to live with the Shakers. My
husband drove her over with his team--her and her trunk."
"Why, where was her aunt? Did Mrs. Sloman know? Why isn't Miss Bessie with
her?"
"Miss' Sloman said all she could--_afterward_ I guess," said the woman,
wiping her eyes, "but 'twan't no use then. You see, Miss' Sloman had jined
a party that was goin' to Minnesota--while she was in Philadelfy,
that was--and Miss Stewart she wasn't goin'. She reckoned she'd spend the
winter here in the house. Miss' Sloman's maid--that's Mary--was goin'
with her to the West, and I was to hire my sister-in-law to take charge
of things here, so that Miss Bessie could have her mind free-like to come
and go. But afore ever Mary Jane--that's my sister-in-law--could
come over from Lee, where she was livin' out, Miss Bessie comes up
and opens the house. She stayed there about a week, and she had lots
of company while she was here. I think she got tired. They was people
that was just goin' to sail for Europe, and as soon as they went
she just shut up and told me to send for Mary Jane to take care
of things.

So Mary Jane never see her, and perhaps she giv' you a crooked answer,
sir, if you was inquirin' of her over to the cottage."
"Where's Hiram? where's your husband? Can I have his team this morning?"

"I guess so," said the sympathetic Mrs. Splinter. "He'll show you the
very house he druv' her to."
Hiram was hunted for and found; and an hour later I was bowling along the
Lebanon road behind the bay team he was so proud of.

I had concluded to take him with me, as he could identify places and
people, and I knew well what castles the Shaker houses are for the world's
people outside. Hiram was full of talk going over. He seemed to have
been bottling it up, and I was the first auditor for his wrath. "I
know 'm," he said, cracking his whip over his horses' heads.
"They be sharp at a bargain, they be. If they've contrived to get a hold
on Bessie Stewart, property and all, it'll go hard on 'em to give her up."

"A _hold_ on Bessie!" What dreadful words! I bade him sharply hold
his tongue and mind his horses, but he went on muttering in an undertone,
"Yo'll see, yo'll see! You're druv' pretty hard, young man, I
expect, so I won't think nothing of your ha'sh words, and we'll get
her out, for all Elder Nebson."
So Hiram, looked out along the road from under his huge fur-cap,
and up hill and down.

The miles shortened, until at last the fair houses and barns of
the Shaker village came in sight.

A sleeping village, one would have thought. Nobody in the road save one
old man, who eyed us suspiciously through the back of a chair he was
carrying.

"It must be dinner-time, I think," said Hiram as he drove cautiously
along.

Stopping at a house near the bridge: "Now this is the very house. Just you
go right up and knock at that 'ere door."
I knocked. In a twinkling the door was opened by a neat Shaker sister, whose
round, smiling face was flushed, as though she had just come from cooking
dinner. I stepped across the threshold: "Bessie Stewart is here. Please
say to her that a friend--a friend from England--wishes to see
her."
"Sure," said the motherly-faced woman, for she was sweet and motherly in
spite of her Shaker garb, "I'll go and see."

Smilingly she ushered me into a room at the left of the hall. "Take seat,
please;" and with a cheerful alacrity she departed, closing the door gently
behind her.

"Well," thought I, "this is pleasant: no bolts or bars here. I'm
sure of one friend at court."
I had leisure to observe the apartment--the neatly-scrubbed floor,
with one narrow cot bed against the wall, a tall bureau on which
some brown old books were lying, and the little dust-pan and
dust-brush on a brass nail in the corner. There was a brightly
polished stove with no fire in it, and some straight-backed chairs
of yellow wood stood round the room.That was a real
achievement in knowledge, because Mazarine was certainly sixty-five if he
was a day, and his wife was a slim, willowy slip of a girl, not more than
nineteen years of age, with the most wonderful Irish blue eyes and long
dark lashes.  There was nothing of the wife or woman about her, save
something in the eyes, which seemed to belong to ages past and gone,
something so solemnly wise, yet so painfully confused, that there flashed
into the Young Doctor's mind at first glance of her the vision of a young
bird caught from its thoughtless, sunbright journeyings, its reckless
freedom of winged life, into the captivity of a cage.

She smiled, this child, as she shook hands with the Mayor, and it had the
appeal of one who had learned the value of smiling--as though it answered
many a question and took the place of words and the trials of the tongue.
It was pitifully mechanical.  As the Young Doctor saw, it was the smile
of a captive in a strange uncomprehended world, more a dream than a
reality.

"Mrs. Mazarine, welcome," said the Mayor after an abashed pause.  "We're
proud of this town, but we'll be prouder still, now you've come."

The girl-wife smiled again.  At the same time it was as though she
glanced apprehensively out of the corner of her eye at the old man by her
side, as she said:

"Thank you.  There seems to be plenty of room for us out here, so we
needn't get in each other's way....  I've never been on the prairie
before," she added.

The Young Doctor realized that her reply had meanings which would escape
the understanding of the Mayor, and her apprehensive glance had told him
of the gruesome jealousy of this old man at her side.  The Mayor's polite
words had caused the long, clean-shaven upper lip of the old man with the
look of a debauched prophet, to lengthen surlily; and he noticed that a
wide, flat foot in a big knee-boot, inside trousers too short, tapped the
ground impatiently.

"We must be getting on to Tralee," said a voice that seemed to force its
way through bronchial obstructions.  "Come, Mrs. Mazarine."

He laid a big, flat, tropical hand, which gave the impression of being
splayed, on the girl's shoulder.  The gallant words of the Mayor--a
chivalrous mountain man--had set dark elements working.  As the new
master of Tralee stepped forward, the Young Doctor could not help
noticing how large and hairy were the ears that stood far out from the
devilish head.  It was a huge, steel-twisted, primitive man, who somehow
gave the impression of a gorilla.  The face was repulsive in its
combination of surly smugness, as shown by the long upper lip, by a
repellent darkness round the small, furtive eyes, by a hardness in the
huge, bearded jaw, and by a mouth of primary animalism.

The Mayor caught sight of the Young Doctor, and he stopped the
incongruous pair as they moved to the station doorway, the girl in front,
as though driven.

"Mr. Mazarine, you've got to know the man who counts for more in Askatoon
than anybody else; Doctor, you've got to know Mr. Mazarine," said the
generous Mayor.

Repugnance was in full possession of the Young Doctor, but he was
scientific and he was philosophic, if nothing else.  He shook hands with
Mazarine deliberately.  If he could prevent it, there should be, where he
was concerned, no jealousy, such as Mazarine had shown towards the Mayor,
in connection with this helpless, exquisite creature in the grip of hard
fate.  Shaking hands with the girl with only a friendly politeness in his
glance, he felt a sudden eager, clinging clasp of her fingers.  It was
like lightning, and gone like lightning, as was the look that flashed
between them.  Somehow the girl instinctively felt the nature of the man,
and in spirit flew to him for protection.  No one saw the swift look, and
in it there was nothing which spoke of youth or heart, of the feeling of
man for woman or woman for man; but only the longing for help on the
girl's part, undefined as it was.  On the man's part there was a soul
whose gift and duty were healing.  Of course the minute you had sailed I
began to be horribly jealous, and then I got a letter by the pilot that
made me worse."
"But," said I, "you got my letters from the other side.

Didn't that assure you that you might have faith in me?"
"But I would not receive them.

Aunt Sloman has them all, done up and labeled for you, doubtless. She, it
seems--had you talked her over?--thought I ought to have gone with you,
and fretted because she was keeping me.

Then I couldn't bear it another day.

It was just after you had sailed, and I had cut out the ship-list to
send you; and I had worked myself up to believe you would go back to
Fanny Meyrick if you had the chance.

I told Aunt Sloman that it was all over between us--that you might continue
to write to me, but I begged that she would keep all your letters in a
box until I should ask her for them."

"But I wrote letters to her, too, asking what had become of you."

"She went to Minnesota, you know, early in February."

"And why didn't you go with her?"
"She scolded me dreadfully because I would not. But she was so well, and
she had her maid and a pleasant party of Philadelphia friends; and
I--well, I didn't want to put all those hundreds of miles between
me and the sea."
"And was Shaker Village so near, then, to the sea?"
"Oh, Charlie," hiding her face on my shoulder, "that was cowardice
in me. You know I meant to keep the cottage open and live there. It
was the saddest place in all the world, but still I wanted to be there--alone.
But I found I could not be alone; and the last people who came
drove me nearly wild--those R----s, Fanny Meyrick's friends--and they
talked about her and about you, so that I could bear it no longer. I
wanted to hide myself from all the world. I knew I could be quiet at
the Shaker village. I had often driven over there with Aunt Sloman:
indeed, Sophia--that's the one you saw--is a great friend of Aunt Maria's."

"So the lady-abbess confessed, did she?" I asked with some curiosity.

"Yes: she said you were rudely inquisitive; but she excused you as
unfamiliar with Shaker ways."

"And were you really at Watervliet?"
"Yes, but don't be in a hurry: we'll come to that presently. Sophia
gave me a pretty little room opening out of hers, and they all treated
me with great kindness, if they _did_ call me Eliza."
"And did you," I asked with some impatience, remembering Hiram's
description--"did you sew beads on velvet and plait straw for mats?"

"Nonsense! I did whatever I pleased. I was parlor-boarder, as they say
in the schools. But I did learn something, sir, from that dear old
sister Martha. You saw _her_?"
"The motherly body who invited me in?"
"Yes: isn't she a dear? I took lessons from her in all sorts of cookery:
you shall see, Charlie, I've profited by being a Shakeress."
"Yes, my darling, but did you--you didn't go to church?"
"Only once," she said, with a shiver that made her all the dearer, "and
they preached such dreary stuff that I told Sophia I would never go again."

"But did you really wear that dress I saw you in?"
"For that once only. You see, I was at Watervliet when you came. If you
had only gone straight there, dear goose!

instead of dodging in the road, you would have found me. I had grown a
little tired of the monotony of the village, and was glad to join
the party starting for Niskayuna, it was such a glorious drive across the
mountain. I longed for you all the time."
"Pretty little Shakeress! But why did they put us on such a false track?"

"Oh, we had expected to reach home that night, but one of the horses was
lame, and we did not start as soon as we had planned.

We came back on Saturday afternoon--Saturday afternoon, and this is Monday
morning!", leaning back dreamily, and looking across the blue
distance to the far-off hills.

"Then I got your card, and they told me about you, and I knew, for all
the message, that you'd be back on Sunday morning.

But how could I tell then that Fanny Meyrick would not be with you?"
"Bessie!" and my hand tightened on hers.

"Oh, Charlie, you don't know what it is to be jealous. Of course I did
know that--no, I didn't, either, though I must have been _sure_
underneath that day. For it was more in fun than anything else,
after I knew you were in the meeting-house--"
"How did you know?"
"I saw you drive up--you and Hiram and Mrs. Hiram."
"You didn't think, then, that it was Mrs. Charles?"
"So I stole into Sophia's room, and put on one of her dresses. She
is tall too, but it did not fit very well."
"I should think not," I answered, looking down admiringly at her.
"In fact," laughing, "I took quite a time pinning myself into it
and getting the neckerchief folded prim. I waited till after the
sermon, and then I knew by the singing that it was the last hymn,
so I darted in.He was fancy-free himself, and the time would come when he would do a
tremendous thing where a woman was concerned, a woman in something the
same position as this poor girl; but that shaking, thrilling thing was
still far off from him.  For this child he only felt the healer's desire
to heal.

He was one of those men who never force an issue; he never put forward
the hands of the clock.  He felt that sooner or later Louise Mazarine--he
did not yet know her Christian name--would command his help, as so many
had done in that prairie country, and not necessarily for relief of
physical pain or the curing of disease.  He had helped as many men and
women mentally and morally as physically; the spirit of healing was
behind everything he did.  His world recognized it, and that was why he
was never known by his name in all the district--he was only admiringly
called "The Young Doctor."

He had never been to Tralee since the Mazarines had arrived, though he
had passed it often and had sometimes seen Louise in the garden with her
dog, her black cat and her bright canary.  The combination of the cat and
the canary did not seem incongruous where she was concerned; it was as
though something in her passionless self neutralized even the antagonisms
of natural history.  She had made the gloomy black cat and the light-
hearted canary to be friends.  Perhaps that came from an everlasting
patience which her life had bred in her; perhaps it was the powerful gift
of one in touch with the remote, primitive things.

The Young Doctor had also seen her in the paddock with the horses, bare-
headed, lithe and so girlishly slim, with none of the unmistakable if
elusive lines belonging to the maturity which marriage brings.  He had
taken off his hat to her in the distance, but she had never waved a hand
in reply.  She only stood and gazed at him, and her look followed him
long after he passed by.  He knew well that in the gaze was nothing of
the interest which a woman feels in a man; it was the look of one chained
to a rock, who sees a Samaritan in the cheerless distance.

In the daily round of her life she was always busy; not restlessly, but
constantly, and always silently, busy.  She was even more silent than her
laconic half-breed hired woman, Rada.  There was no talk with her
gloating husband which was not monosyllabic.  Her canary sang, but no
music ever broke from her own lips.  She murmured over her lovely yellow
companion; she kissed it, pleaded with it for more song, but the only
music at her own lips was the occasional music of her voice; and it had a
colourless quality which, though gentle, had none of the eloquence and
warmth of youth.

In form and feature she was one made for emotion and demonstration, and
the passionate play of the innocent enterprises of wild youth; but there
was nothing of that in her.  Gray age had drunk her life and had given
her nothing in return--neither companionship nor sympathy nor
understanding; only the hunger of a coarse manhood.  Her obedience to
the supreme will of her jealous jailer gave no ground for scolding or
reproach, and that saved her much.  She was even quietly cheerful, but
it was only the pale reflection of a lost youth which would have been
buoyant and gallant, gay and glad, had it been given the natural thing
in the natural world.

There came a day, however, when the long, unchanging routine, gray with
prison grayness, was broken; when the round of household duties and the
prison discipline were interrupted.  It was as sudden as a storm in the
tropics, as final and as fateful as birth or death.  That day she was
taken suddenly and acutely ill.  It was only a temporary malady, an
agonizing pain which had its origin in a sudden chill.  This chill was
due, as the Young Doctor knew when he came, to a vitality which did not
renew itself, which got nothing from the life to which it was sealed,
which for some reason could not absorb energy from the stinging, vital
life of the prairie world in the June-time.

In her sudden anguish, and in the absence of Joel Mazarine, she sent
for the Young Doctor.  That in itself was courageous, because it was
impossible to tell what view the master of Tralee would take of her
action, ill though she was.  She was not supposed to exercise her will.
If Joel Mazarine had been at home, he would have sent for wheezy,
decrepit old Doctor Gensing, whose practice the Young Doctor had
completely absorbed over a series of years.

But the Young Doctor came.  Rada, the half-breed woman, had undressed
Louise and put her to bed; and he found her white as snow at the end of a
paroxysm of pain, her long eyelashes lying on a cheek as smooth as a
piece of Satsuma ware which has had the loving polish of ten thousand
friendly fingers over innumerable years.  There was a little table, over
which hung a looking-glass, surmounted by two fans of turkey feathers.
I stared feebly at the fans for a while, and then closed my eyes
again.

Where was I? I had a faint remembrance of jolting in a wagon, and of pitying
faces bent over me, but where was I now? Again I opened my eyes, and noted
the gay patchwork covering of the bed, and the green paper curtain
of the window in the golden wall--green, with a tall yellow flower-pot
on it, with sprawling roses of blue and red.For a whole hour he worked with her, and at length subdued the
convulsions of pain which distorted the beautiful face and made the
childlike body writhe.  He had a resentment against the crime which had
been committed.  Marriage had not made her into a woman; it had driven
her back into an arrested youth.  It was as though she ought to have worn
short skirts and her hair in a long braid down her back.  Hers was the
body of a young boy.  I went slowly up the hill. The church-clock was
striking nine--calm, peaceful strokes.
There was no tremor in them, no warning of what was coming. The air was
very still, and I stopped a moment to watch the bluebirds before I
turned into the Lebanon road.

There was the little gray cottage, with its last year's vines about
it, a withered spray here and there waving feebly as the soft April
air caught it and tossed it to and fro.

No sign of life about the cottage--doors and windows tight shut and
barred.

Only the little gate swung open, but that might have been the wind. I
stepped up on the porch. No sound save the echo of my steps and the knocking
of my heart. I rang the bell.

It pealed violently, but there were no answering sounds: nothing stirred.

"You will have to face the whole universe to-morrow, same as
ever."

She looked perplexed, and then said to him: "I used to think it was a
beautiful world, and they try to make me think it is yet; but it isn't."

"Who try to make you?" he asked.

"Oh, my bird Richard, and Nigger the black cat, and Jumbo, the dog," she
replied.

Her eyes closed, then opened strangely wide upon him in an eager, staring
appeal.

"Don't you want to know about me?" she asked.  "I want to tell you--
I want to tell you.  I'm tired of telling it all over to myself."

The Young Doctor did not want to know.  As a doctor he did not want to
know.

