At 10 p.m., in a bright daylight, the small boats full of passengers
begin to leave the steamer for the shore. In about fifteen minutes we
are landed at the base of that towering Cape. There are some who doubt
the wisdom of Dr. Talmage's attempting to climb at his age. He has no
doubts, however, and no one expresses them to him. He is among the first
to take the staff, handed to him as to all of us, and starts up at his
usual brisk, striding gait. It is a test of lungs and heart, of skill
and nerve to climb the North Cape, and let no one attempt it who is
unfitted for the task. Steep almost as the side of a house, rocky as an
unused pathway, it is a feat to accomplish. We were the first party of
the season to go up, and the paths had not been entirely cleared of
snow, which was two and three feet deep in places, the path itself
sometimes a narrow ledge over a precipice. A rope guard was the only
barrier between us and a slippery catastrophe. Every ten or fifteen
minutes we sat down to get our breath. It took us two hours to reach the
top. It was a few minutes after midnight when the sun came out
gloriously.

Coming down was much more perilous, but we got back in safety to the
"Köng Harald" at 2 a.m. On our way down to Tröndhjem we celebrated the
Fourth of July on board. The captain decorated the ship for the occasion
and we all tried to sing "The Star Spangled Banner," but we could not
remember the words, much to our mutual surprise and finally we
compromised by singing "America," and, worst of all, "Yankee Doodle."
Dr. Talmage made a very happy address, and we came into port finally,
pledged to learn the words of "The Star Spangled Banner" before the year
was up.

In our haste to reach the North Cape we had passed hurriedly through
Sweden, so, on our return we went from Tröndhjem to Stockholm, where we
arrived on July 7, 1900.

When in London Dr. Talmage had accepted an invitation to preach in the
largest church in Sweden, with some misgiving, because, as he himself
said when asked to do this, "Shall I have an audience?" Of course the
Doctor did not speak the Swedish language. Dr. Talmage had been told in
England that his name was known through all Sweden, which was a fact
fully sustained by a publisher in Stockholm who came to the hotel one
afternoon and brought copies of ten of the Doctor's books translated
into Swedish. This insured a cordial greeting for the Doctor, but how
was he to make himself understood?

The Immanuel Church in Stockholm, one of the largest I ever saw, with
two galleries and three aisles, was filled to its capacity. Dr. Talmage
was to preach through an interpreter, himself a foremost preacher in his
own country. The Doctor had preached through interpreters three times in
his life; once when a theological student addressing a congregation of
American Indians, once in a church in Hawaii, and once in Ceylon through
an interpreter standing on each side of him, one to translate into
Cingalese, and the other to translate into Hindustan. No one who was
present at that morning Sabbath service on July 8, 1900, will forget
the strange impressions that translated sermon preached by Dr. Talmage
made upon everyone. Sentence by sentence the brilliant interpreter
repeated the Doctor's words in the Swedish language, while the
congregation in eager silence studied Dr. Talmage's face while listening
to the translation of his ideas.

"Whether I did them any good or not they did me good," said the Doctor
after the service.

While in Stockholm we dined with Mr. Wyndham, Secretary of the American
Legation, and were shown through the private rooms of the royal palace,
of which my daughter took snapshots with surreptitious skill. The Queen
was a great invalid and scarcely ever saw anyone, but while driving to
her summer palace we caught a glimpse of her being lifted from her
little horse, on which she had been riding, seated in a sort of armchair
saddle. With a groom to lead the horse Her Majesty took the air every
day in this way. She was a very frail little woman.

From Stockholm we started by steamer for St. Petersburg, but the crowd
was so great that we found our staterooms impossible, and we disembarked
at Alba, the first capital in Finland. We were curious to see the new
capital, Helsingfors, and stopped over a day or two there. From
Helsingfors we went by rail to the Russian capital.

Dr. Talmage had been in Russia years before, on the occasion of his
presentation of a shipload of flour from the American people to the
famine sufferers. At that time he had been presented to Emperor
Alexander III., as well as the Dowager Empress. It was his intention to
pay his respects again to the new Emperor, whose father he had known, so
that we looked forward to our stay in St. Petersburg as eventful. The
Crown Prince of Denmark had urged the Doctor to see his brother-in-law,
the Czar, while in St. Petersburg, and we learned later that he had
written a letter to the Court concerning our coming to St. Petersburg.

On July 23, 1900, we received the following note from Dr. Pierce, the
American Charge d'Affaires in St. Petersburg:--

    "July 23, 1900.
    "Embassy of the United States, St. Petersburg.

    "Dear Dr. Talmage--

    "I take much pleasure in informing you that you and Mrs. Talmage and
    your daughters will be received by Their Majesties the Emperor and
    Empress on Wednesday next, at 2½ p.m.

    "Yours very sincerely,
    "HERBERT H.D. PIERCE.

    "P.S.--I will let you know the details later."

Mr. Pierce called in full court dress and informed Dr. Talmage that it
would be necessary for him to appear in like regalia. As the Doctor was
not accustomed to wearing swords, or cocked hats, or brass buttons on
his coat, he received these instructions with some distress of mind.
Later, we received from the Grand Master of Ceremonies of the Russian
Court a formal invitation to be presented at Peterhof, the summer
palace.

On Wednesday, July 25, 1900, I find this irreverent entry in my American
girl's diary:--

"I can't think of any words sufficiently high sounding with which to
begin the report of this day, so shall simply write about breakfast
first, and gradually lead up to the great event. In spite of the coming
honour and the present excitement we all ate a hearty breakfast."

"As our train was to leave for Peterhof about noon we spent the morning
dressing.

"After all," writes my irreverent daughter in her diary, "dressing for
royalty is not more important than dressing for a dance or dinner. It
can't last for much over an hour. When we had everything on we sat
opposite each other as stiff as pokers--waiting."

My daughter took a snapshot picture of us while waiting. Mrs. Pierce had
kindly given us some instructions about curtseying and backing away from
royalty, a ceremony which neither the Czar nor the Czarina imposed upon
us, however. The trip to Peterhof was made on one of the Imperial cars.
The distance by rail from St. Petersburg was only half-an-hour. A
gentleman from the American Embassy rode with us. We were met at the
station by footmen in royal livery and conducted to a carriage with the
Imperial coat-of-arms upon it. Sentinels in grey coats saluted us.

We were driven first to the Palace of Peterhof, where more footmen in
gold lace, and two other officials in gorgeous uniform, conducted us
inside, through a corridor, past a row of bowing servants, into a
dining-room where the table was set for luncheon, with gold and silver
plates, cut glass and rare china. A more exquisite table setting I never
saw. Three dressing-rooms opened off this big room, and these we
promptly appropriated.

The luncheon was perfect, though we would have enjoyed it better after
the strain of our presentation had been over. The four different kinds
of wine were not very liberally patronised by any of our party. After
luncheon we were driven through the royal park which was literally
filled with mounted Cossacks on guard everywhere, to the abode of the
Emperor. Through another double line of liveried servants we were
ushered into a small room where the Master of Ceremonies and a
lady-in-waiting greeted us. We waited about five minutes when an officer
came to the Doctor and took him to see the Emperor. A little later we
were ushered into another room into the presence of the Empress of
Russia. She came forward very graciously with outstretched hands to meet
us. The Czarina is the most beautiful woman I ever saw, aristocratic,
simple, extremely sensitive. She was dressed in a black silk gown with
white polka dots. Slightly taller than the Czar, the Empress was most
affable, girlish in her manner. As she talked the colour came and went
on her pale, fair cheeks, and she gave me the impression of being a very
sensitive, reserved, exquisitely rare nature. Her smile had a charming
yet half melancholy radiance. We all sat down and talked. I remember the
little shiver with which the Empress spoke of a race in the Orient whom
she disliked.

"They would stab you in the back," she said, her voice fading almost to
a whisper. She looked to be about twenty-eight years old. Once when we
thought it was time to go, and had started to make our adieus, the
Czarina kept on talking, urging us to stay. She talked of America
chiefly, and told us how enthusiastic her cousin was who had just
returned from there. When, finally, we did leave we were spared the
dreaded ceremony of backing out of the room, for the Empress walked with
us to the door, and shook hands in true democratic American fashion.

Dr. Talmage's interview with the Czar was quite as cordial. The Emperor
expressed his faith in the results of the Peace movement at the Hague,
for he was himself at peace with all the world. During the interview the
Doctor was asked many questions by the Emperor about the heroes of the
Spanish war, especially concerning Admiral Dewey. His Majesty laughed
heartily at the Doctor's story of a battle in which the only loss of
life was a mule.

"How many important things have happened since we met," the Czar said to
the Doctor; "I was twenty-four when you were here before, now I am
thirty-two. My father is gone. My mother has passed through three great
sorrows since you were here--the loss of my father, of my brother, and
during this last year of her own mother, the Queen of Denmark. She
wishes to see you in her own palace."

The Czar is about five feet ten in height, is very fair, with blue eyes,
and seemed full of kindness and good cheer.

As we were leaving, word came from the Dowager Empress that she would
see us, and we drove a mile or two further through the royal park to her
palace. She greeted Dr. Talmage with both hands outstretched, like an
old friend. Though much smaller in stature than the Empress of Russia,
the Dowager Empress was quite as impressive and stately. She was dressed
in mourning. Her room was like a corner in Paradise set apart from the
grim arrogance of Imperial Russia. It was filled with exquisite
paintings, sweet with a profusion of flowers and plants. She seemed
genuinely happy to see the Doctor, and her eyes filled with tears when
he spoke of the late Emperor, her husband. At her neck she was wearing a
miniature portrait of him set in diamonds. Very simply she took it off
to show to us, saying, "This is the best picture ever taken of my
husband. It is such a pleasure to see you, Dr. Talmage, I heard of your
being in Europe from my brother in Denmark."

The Dowager Empress was full of remembrances of the Doctor's previous
visit to Russia, eight years before.

"How did you like the tea service which my husband sent you?" she asked
Dr. Talmage; "I selected it myself. It is exactly like a set we use
ourselves."

The informal charm of the Empress's manner was most friendly and kind.

"Do you remember the handful of flowers I picked for you, and asked you
to send them to your family?" she said.

"You stood here, my husband there, and I with my smaller children stood
here. How well I remember that day; but, oh, what changes!"

The Dowager Empress invited us to come to her palace next day and meet
the Queen of Greece, her niece by marriage, and her sister-in-law who
was visiting Russia just then, but we were obliged to decline because of
previous plans. Very graciously she wrote her autograph for us and
promised to send me her photograph, which later on I received. We were
driven back to the station in the Imperial carriage, where a
representative of the American Embassy met us and rode back to St.
Petersburg with us.

So ended a day of absorbing interest such as I shall never experience
again. There is a touch of humour always to the most important events in
life. I shall never forget Dr. Talmage's real distress when he found
that the sword which he had borrowed from Mr. Pierce, the Charge
d'Affaires of the American Embassy, had become slightly bent in the
course of its royal adventure. I can see his look of anxiety as he tried
to straighten it out, and was afraid he couldn't. He always abhorred
borrowed things and hardly ever took them. Fortunately, the sword was
not seriously damaged.

Our objective point after leaving Russia was Ober-Ammergau, where Dr.
Talmage wanted to witness the Passion Play. We travelled in that
direction by easy stages, going from St. Petersburg first to Moscow,
where we paid a visit to Tolstoi's house. From Moscow we went to Warsaw,
and thence to Berlin. The Doctor seemed to have abandoned himself
completely to the lure of sightseeing by this time. Churches, picture
galleries, museums were our daily diet. While in Berlin we returned from
a drive one day to the hotel and found ourselves the objects of unusual
solicitude and attention from the hotel proprietor and his servants.
With many obsequious bows we were informed that the Russian Ambassador
had called upon us in our absence, and had informed the hotel people
that he had a special package from the Czar to deliver to me. He left
word that he would be at the hotel at 2 p.m. the following day to carry
out his Imperial Master's instructions. At the time appointed the next
day the Russian Ambassador called and formally presented to me, in the
name of the Emperor, a package that had been sent by special messenger.
I immediately opened it and found a handsome Russian leather case. I
opened that, and inside found the autographs of the Emperor and Empress
of Russia, written on separate sheets of their royal note paper.

We had a very good time in Berlin. The presence of Sousa and his band
there gave it an American flavour that was very delightful. The Doctor's
interest was really centred in visiting the little town of Württemberg,
famous for its Luther history. Dr. Dickey, Pastor of the American
Church in Berlin, became our guide on the day we visited the haunts of
Luther. One day we went through the Kaiser's Palace at Potsdam, where my
daughter managed to use her kodak with good effect.

From Berlin we went to Vienna, and thence to Munich, arriving at the
little village of Ober-Ammergau on August 25, 1900.

Dr. Talmage's impressions of the Passion Play, which he wrote at
Ober-Ammergau on this occasion, were never published in this country,
and I herewith include them in these last milestones of his life.


THE PASSION PLAY AT OBER-AMMERGAU

_By Rev. T. DeWitt Talmage, D.D._

About fifteen years ago the good people of America were shocked at the
proposition to put on the theatrical stage of New York the Passion Play,
or a dramatic representation of the sufferings of Christ. It was to be
an imitation of that which had been every ten years, since 1634, enacted
in Ober-Ammergau, Germany. Every religious newspaper and most of the
secular journals, and all the pulpits, denounced the proposition. It
would be an outrage, a sacrilege, a blasphemy. I thought so then; I
think so now. The attempt of ordinary play actors amid worldly
surroundings, and before gay assemblages, to portray the sufferings of
Christ and His assassination would have been a horrible indecency that
would have defied the heavens and invoked a plague worse than that for
the turning back of which the Passion Play at Ober-Ammergau was
established. We might have suggested for such a scene a Judas, or a
Caiaphas, or a Pilate, or a Herod. But who would have been the Christ?

The Continental protest which did not allow the curtain of that
exhibition to be hoisted was right, and if a similar attempt should ever
be made in America I hope it may be as vehemently defeated. But as
certain individuals may have an especial mission which other individuals
are not caused to exercise, so neighbourhoods and provinces and
countries may have a call peculiar to themselves.

Whether the German village of Ober-Ammergau which I have just been
visiting, may have such an especial ordination, I leave others to judge
after they have taken into consideration all the circumstances. The
Passion Play, as it was proposed for the theatrical stage in New York,
would have been as different from the Passion Play as we saw it at
Ober-Ammergau a few days ago as midnight is different from mid-noon.

Ober-Ammergau is a picture-frame of hills.

The mountains look down upon the village, and the village looks up to
the mountains. The river Ammer, running through the village, has not
recovered from its race down the steeps, and has not been able to
moderate its pace. Like an arrow, it shoots past. Through exaltations
and depressions of the rail train, and on ascending and descending
grades, we arrived at the place of which we had heard and read so much.
The morning was as glorious as any other morning that was let down out
of the heavens. Though many thousands of people from many quarters of
the earth had lodged that night in Ober-Ammergau, the place at dawn was
as silent as a hunter's cabin in any of the mountains of Bavaria. The
Ammergauers are a quiet people. They speak in low tones, and are
themselves masters of the art of silence. Their step, as well as their
voice, is quiet. Reverence and courtesy are among their
characteristics. Though merry enough, and far from being dolorous, I
think the most of them feel themselves called to a solemn duty, that in
some later time they will be called to take part in absorbing
solemnities, for about 700 performers appear in the wonderful
performance; there are only about 1,400 inhabitants.

While the morning is still morning, soon after 7 o'clock, hundreds and
thousands of people, nearly all on foot, are moving in one direction, so
that you do not have to ask for the place of mighty convocation. Through
fourteen large double doors the audience enter. Everything in the
immense building is so plain that nothing could be plainer, and the
seats are cushionless, a fact which becomes thoroughly pronounced after
you have for eight hours, with only brief intermissions, been seated on
them.

All is expectancy!

The signal gun outside the building sounds startlingly. We are not about
to witness an experiment, but to look upon something which has been in
preparation and gathering force for two hundred and sixty-six years. It
was put upon the stage not for financial gain but as a prayer to God for
the removal of a Destroying Angel which had with his wings swept to
death other villages, and was then destroying Ober-Ammergau. It was a
dying convulsion in which Widowhood and Orphanage and Childlessness
vowed that if the Lord should drive back that Angel of Death, then every
ten years they would in the most realistic and overwhelming manner show
the world what Christ had done to save it.

They would reproduce His groan. They would show the blood-tipped spear.
They would depict the demoniac grin of ecclesiastics who gladly heard
perjurers testify against the best Friend the world ever had, but who
declined to hear anything in His defence. They would reproduce the
spectacle of silence amid wrong; a silence with not a word of protest,
or vindication, or beseechment; a silence that was louder than the
thunder that broke from the heavens that day when at 12 o'clock at noon
was as dark as 12 o'clock at night.

Poets have been busy for many years putting the Passion Play into
rhythm. The Bavarian Government had omitted from it everything
frivolous. The chorus would be that of drilled choirs. Men and women who
had never been out of the sight of the mountains which guarded their
homes would do with religious themes what the David Garricks and the
Macreadys and the Ristoris and the Charlotte Cushmans did with secular
themes. On a stage as unpretentious as foot ever trod there would be an
impersonation that would move the world. The greatest tragedy of all
times would find fit tragedian. We were not there that August morning to
see an extemporised performance. As long ago as last December the
programme for this stupendous rendering was all made out. No man or
woman who had the least thing objectionable in character or reputation
might take part.

The Passion Council, made up of the pastor of the village church and six
devout members, together with the Mayor and ten councillors selected for
their moral worth, assembled. After special Divine service, in which
heaven's direction was sought, the vote was taken, and the following
persons were appointed to appear in the more important parts of the
Passion Play: Rochus Lang, _Herod_; John Zwink, _Judas_; Andreas Braun,
_Joseph of Arimathea_; Bertha Wolf, _Magdalen_; Sebastian Baur,
_Pilate_; Peter Rendi, _John_; William Rutz, _Nicodemus_; Thomas Rendi,
_Peter_; Anna Flunger, _Mary_; Anton Lang, _Christ_.

The music began its triumphant roll, and the curtains were divided and
pulled back to the sides of the stage. Lest we repeat the only error in
the sacred drama, that of prolixity, we will not give in minutiæ what we
saw and heard. The full text of the play is translated and published by
my friend, the Reverend Doctor Dickey, pastor of the American Church of
Berlin, and takes up 169 pages, mostly in fine print.

I only describe what most impressed me.

There is a throng of people of all classes in the streets of Jerusalem,
by look and gesture indicating that something wonderful is advancing.
Acclamations fill the air. The crowd parts enough to allow Christ to
pass, seated on the side of a colt, which was led by the John whom Jesus
especially loved. The Saviour's hands are spread above the throng in
benediction, while He looks upon them with a kindness and sympathy that
win the love of the excited multitude. Arriving at the door of the
Temple, Jesus dismounts and, walking over the palm branches and garments
which are strewn and unrolled in His way, He enters the Temple, and
finds that parts of that sacred structure are turned into a marketplace,
with cages of birds and small droves of lambs and heifers which the
dealers would sell to those who wanted to make a "live offering" in the
Temple. Indignation gathers on the countenance of Christ where
gentleness had reigned. He denounces these merchants, who stood there
over-reaching in their bargains and exorbitantly outrageous in their
charges. The doors of the cages holding the pigeons are opened, and in
their escape they fly over the stage and over the audience. The table
on which the exchangers had been gathering unreasonable percentage was
thrown down, and the coin rattled over the floor, and the place was
cleared of the dishonest invaders, who go forth to plot the ruin and the
death of Him who had so suddenly expelled them.

The most impressive character in all the sacred drama is Christ.

The impersonator, Anton Lang, seems by nature far better fitted for this
part than was his predecessor, Josef Mayr, who took that part in 1870,
1880, and 1890. Mayr is very tall, brawny, athletic. His hair was black
in those days, and his countenance now is severe. He must have done it
well, but I can hardly imagine him impersonating gentleness and complete
submission to abuse. But Anton Lang, with his blonde complexion, his
light hair, blue eyes and delicate mouth, his exquisiteness of form and
quietness of manner, is just like what Raphael and many of the old
masters present. When we talked with Anton Lang in private he looked
exactly as he looked in the Passion Play. This is his first year in the
Christ character, and his success is beyond criticism. In his trade as a
carver of wood he has so much to do in imitating the human countenance
that he understands the full power of expression. The way he listens to
the unjust charges in the court room, his bearing when the ruffians bind
him, and his manner when, by a hand, thick-gloved so as not to get hurt,
a crown of thorns was put upon his brow, and the officers with long
bands of wood press it down upon the head of the sufferer, all show that
he has a talent to depict infinite agony.

No more powerful acting was ever seen on the stage than that of John
Zwink, the Judas. In repose there is no honester face in Ober-Ammergau
than his. Twenty years ago he appeared in the Passion Play as St. John;
one would suppose that he would do best in a representation of geniality
and mildness. But in the character of Judas he represents, in every
wrinkle of his face, and in every curl of his hair, and in every glare
of his eye, and in every knuckle of his hand with which he clutches the
money bag, hypocrisy and avarice and hate and low strategy and
diabolism. The quickness with which he grabs the bribe for the betrayal
of the Lord, the villainous leer at the Master while seated at the holy
supper, show him to be capable of any wickedness. What a spectacle when
the traitorous lips are pressed against the pure cheek of the Immaculate
One, the disgusting smack desecrating the holy symbol of love.

But after Judas has done his deadly work then there comes upon him a
remorse and terror such as you have never seen depicted unless you have
witnessed the Passion Play at the foot of the Bavarian mountains. His
start at imaginary sounds, his alarm at a creaking door, his fear at
nothing, the grinding teeth and the clenched fist indicative of mental
torture, the dishevelled hair, the beating of his breast with his hands,
the foaming mouth, the implication, the shriek, the madness, the flying
here and there in the one attempt to get rid of himself, the horror
increased at his every appearance, whether in company or alone, regarded
in contrast with the dagger scene of "Macbeth" makes the latter mere
child's play. That day, John Zwink, in the character of Judas, preached
fifty sermons on the ghastliness of betrayal. The fire-smart of
ill-gotten gain, the iron-beaked vulture of an aroused conscience; all
the bloodhounds of despair seemed tearing him. Then, when he can endure
the anguish no longer, he loosens the long girdle from his waist and
addresses that girdle as a snake, crying out:--

"Ha! Come, thou serpent, entwine my neck and strangle the betrayer," and
hastily ties it about his neck and tightens it, then rushes up to the
branch of a tree for suicide, and the curtain closes before the 4,000
breathless auditors.

Do I approve of the Passion Play at Ober-Ammergau?

My only answer is that I was never so impressed in all my life with the
greatness of the price that was paid for the redemption of the human
race. The suffering depicted was so awful that I cannot now understand
how I could have endured looking upon its portrayal. It is amazing that
thousands in the audience did not faint into a swoon as complete as that
of the soldiers who fell on the stage at the Lord's reanimation from
Joseph's mausoleum.

Imagine what it would be to see a soldier seemingly thrust a spear into
the Saviour's side, and to see the crimson rush from the laceration.

Would I see it acted again? No. I would not risk my nerves again under
the strain of such a horror. One dreams of it nights after.

When Christ carrying His cross falls under it, and you see Him on His
hands and knees, His forehead ensanguined with the twisted brambles, and
Veronica comes to Him offering a handkerchief to wipe away the tears,
and sweat and blood, your own forehead becomes beaded with perspiration.
As the tragedy moves on, solemnity is added to solemnity. Not so much as
a smile in the eight hours, except the slight snicker of some fool, such
as is sure to be found in all audiences, when the cock crew twice after
Peter had denied him thrice.

What may seem strange to some, I was as much impressed with Christ's
mental agony as with his physical pangs. Oh! what a scene when in
Gethsemane He groaned over the sins of the world for which He was making
expiation, until the angelic throngs of heaven were so stirred by His
impassioned utterance that one of their white-winged number came out and
down to comfort the Angel of the New Covenant!

Some of the tableaux or living pictures between the acts of this drama
were graphic and thrilling, such as Adam and Eve expelled from
arborescence into homelessness; Joseph, because of his picturesque
attire sold into serfdom, from which he mounts to the Prime Minister's
chair; the palace gates shut against Queen Vashti because she declines
to be immodest; manna snowing down into the hands of the hungry
Israelites; grapes of Eshcol so enormous that one cluster is carried by
two men on a staff between them; Naboth stoned to death because Ahab
wants his vineyard; blind Samson between the pillars of the Temple of
Dagon, making very destructive sport for his enemies. These tableaux are
chiefly intended as a breathing spell between the acts of the drama. The
music rendered requires seven basses and seven tenors, ten sopranos and
ten contraltos. Edward Lang has worked thirty years educating the
musical talent of the village. The Passion Play itself is beyond
criticism, though it would have been mightier if two hours less in its
performance. The subtraction would be an addition.

The drama progresses from the entering into Jerusalem to the
condemnation by the Sanhedrim, showing all the world that crime may be
committed according to law as certainly as crime against the law.

Oh, the hard-visaged tribunal; countenances as hard as the spears, as
hard as the spikes, as hard as the rocks under which the Master was
buried! Who can hear the metallic voice of that Caiaphas without
thinking of some church court that condemned a man better than
themselves? Caiaphas is as hateful as Judas. Blessed is that
denomination of religionists which has not more than one Caiaphas!

On goes the scene till we reach the goodby of Mary and Christ at
Bethany. Who will ever forget that woman's cry, or the face from which
suffering has dried the last tear? Who would have thought that Anna
Flunger, the maiden of twenty-five years, could have transformed her
fair and happy face into such concentration of gloom and grief and woe?
Mary must have known that the goodbye at Bethany was final, and that the
embrace of that Mother and Son was their last earthly embrace. It was
the saddest parting since the earth was made, never to be equalled while
the earth stands.

What groups of sympathetic women trying to comfort her, as only women
can comfort!

On goes the sacred drama till we come to the foot-washing. A few days
before, while we were in Vienna, we had explained to us the annual
ceremony of foot washing by the Emperor of Austria. It always takes
place at the close of Lent. Twelve very old people are selected from the
poorest of the poor. They are brought to the palace. At the last
foot-washing the youngest of the twelve was 86 years of age, and the
oldest 92. The Imperial family and all those in high places gather for
this ceremony. An officer precedes the Emperor with a basin of water.
For many days the old people have been preparing for the scene. The
Emperor goes down on one knee before each one of these venerable people,
puts water on the arch of the foot and then wipes it with a towel. When
this is done a rich provision of food and drink is put before each one
of the old people, but immediately removed before anything is tasted.
Then the food and the cups and the knives and the forks are put in
twelve sacks and each one has his portion allotted him. The old people
come to the foot-washing in the Emperor's carriage and return in the
same way, and they never forget the honour and splendour of that
occasion.

Oh, the contrast between that foot-washing amid pomp and brilliant
ceremony and the imitated foot-washing of our Lord at Ober-Ammergau.
Before each one of the twelve Apostles Christ comes down so slowly that
a sigh of emotion passes through the great throng of spectators. Christ
even washes the feet of Judas. Was there in all time or eternity past,
or will there be in all time or eternity to come, such a scene of
self-abnegation? The Lord of heaven and earth stooping to such a service
which must have astounded the heavens more than its dramatisation
overpowered us! What a stunning rebuke to the pride and arrogance and
personal ambition of all ages!

The Hand of God on Human Foot in Ablution!

No wonder the quick-tempered Peter thought it incongruous, and forbade
its taking place, crying out: "Thou shalt never wash my feet!" But the
Lord broke him down until Peter vehemently asked that his head and his
hands be washed as well as his feet.

During eight hours on that stage it seems as though we were watching a
battle between the demons of the Pit and the seraphs of Light, and the
demons triumph. Eight hours telling a sadness, with every moment worse
than its predecessor. All the world against Him, and hardly any let up
so that we feel like leaving our place and rushing for the stage and
giving congratulations with both hands to Simon of Cyrene as he lightens
the Cross from the shoulder of the sufferer, and to Nicodemus who voted
an emphatic "No" at the condemnation, and to Joseph of Arimathea who
asks the honour of being undertaker at the obsequies.

Scene after scene, act after act, until at the scourging every stroke
fetches the blood; and the purple mantle is put upon Him in derision,
and they slap His face and they push Him off the stool upon which He
sits, laughing at His fall. On, until from behind the curtain you hear
the thumping of the hammers on the spikes; on, until hanging between two
bandits, He pledges Paradise within twenty-four hours to the one, and
commits His own broken-hearted mother to John, asking him to take care
of her in her old age; and His complaint of thirst brings a sponge
moistened with sour wine on the end of a staff; and blasphemy has hurled
at Him its last curse, and malice has uttered concerning Him its last
lie, and contempt has spit upon Him its last foam, and the resources of
perdition are exhausted, and from the shuddering form and white lips
comes the exclamation, "It is finished!"

