Produced by Martin Robb


THROUGH THE FRAY

A TALE OF THE LUDDITE RIOTS

BY G. A. HENTY


PREFACE


My Dear Lads:

The beginning of the present century, glorious as it was for British
arms abroad, was a dark time to those who lived by their daily
labor at home. The heavy taxation entailed by the war, the injury
to trade, and the enormous prices of food, all pressed heavily
upon the working classes. The invention of improved machinery, vast
as has been the increase of trade which it has brought about, at
first pressed heavily upon the hand workers, who assigned all their
distress to the new inventions. "The Easy Book" and "The Beautiful
Book" ought to be remembered by dealers ordering for the holidays.
These books have only to be seen to be appreciated. The Nursery
series of books is allowed to be the best for the purpose designed,
namely, the teaching of children to read, _chiefly by their own
efforts_, that has ever appeared.

Unaccepted articles will be returned to the writers _if stamps
are sent with them_ to pay return postage. Manuscripts not so
accompanied will not be preserved, and subsequent requests for
their return cannot be complied with.

[Hand-->] ==New Subscribers for 1876, whose names and money are
sent us before November next, will receive the last three numbers
of 1875 FREE.==

[Hand-->] We want a special agent in every town in the United
States.
Persons disposed to act in that capacity, are invited to
communicate with the publisher.

[Illustration]

THE DELIGHTS OF THE SEASIDE.

Oh merry, merry sports had we, last summer on the beach,-- Lucy and
Oliver and I, with Uncle Sam to teach!

At times, clad in our bathing-suits, we'd join our hands, all four,
And rush into the water, or run along the shore.

The wet sand, how it glistened on the sunny summer day!
And how the waves would chase us back, as if they were in play!
And when, on the horizon blue, a sail we would espy, How "Ship
ahoy!" or "Whither bound?" we all of us would cry!

The white, white sand, so smooth and hard, oh what a place for
fun!
With no one by to check our screams, or say, "Now, pray, have done!"
The sea-birds, not at all disturbed by all our mirthful noise, Would
cry to us, as if they said, "Shout on, shout on, my boys!"
Sometimes we'd seek for flattened stones, and skim them o'er the
waves; Then go where, in the piled-up rocks, the sea had hollowed
caves; Or sit and feel the cooling breeze in silent happiness; Or
hunt for seaweed in the clefts, and take it home to press.

And well do I remember there a little shallow creek, Where we would
go and sail our ships, at least three times a week:
We loaded them with cargoes rich, and sent them all to Spain; And
back they came with heavy freights, by which we made much
gain.

Oh!

pleasant pastimes on the beach, how often I recall The ocean
grand, the distant sails, the rocks, the lighthouse tall!
They do not fade, these pictures bright, from memory's inner view;
And age itself shall never dim their colors ever new.

EMILY CARTER.

[Illustration]

MABEL AND HER FRIEND CARLO.

Mabel lives on a hill, quite near a beautiful lake, and is very
fond of going with her papa to take a row on the water. Sometimes
they visit the woods on the other side of the lake, and pick wild
flowers, or go where the water-lilies grow, near the shore, and gather
a bunch of the pretty white blossoms.

But I must tell about Mabel's friend Carlo. He is a large shaggy
dog, owned by a gentleman who lives near. Although quite a young
dog, he knows a great deal. He is very fond of water, and is wild
with delight at the prospect of a swim.
His master owns a large sail-boat, and, as the water near the shore
is not deep, he has to use a small boat to reach it. When Carlo
sees him take down the oar from its place in the yard, he runs up,
and takes it in his mouth, as much as to say, "Let me carry that
for you, master." Then he trots down the hill with the oar, feeling
very proud that he is allowed to carry it.
One day, Carlo took hold of the rope with his teeth, and drew the
small boat to the shore; so that his master, who was in it, did not
have to use the oar.Mr. Hathorn, in fact, intended, and as he quite believed with success,
to do his duty by his boys. They were sent to him to be taught, and
he taught them through the medium then recognized as most fitting
for the purpose--the cane; while, as far as an abundance of
porridge for breakfast, and of heavy pudding at dinner, with twice
a week an allowance of meat, the boys were unstinted. He would
indeed point with pride to his pupils when their parents assembled
at the annual presentation of prizes.

"Look at them!" he would say proudly. "None of your half starved
skeletons here--well filled out and in good condition every boy
of them--no stint of porridge here. It keeps them in good health
and improves their learning; for, mark you, a plump boy feels the
cane twice as much as a skinny one; it stings, my dear sir, it
stings, and leaves its mark; whereas there is no getting at a boy
whose clothes hang like bags about him."

This was no doubt true, and the boys themselves were conscious of
it, and many had been the stern resolutions made while smarting in
agony that henceforward food should be eschewed, or taken only in
sufficient quantities to keep life together. But boys' appetites
are stronger than boys' resolutions, and in the end there was never
any marked falling off in the consumption of viands at Hathorn's.

Like other things punishment fails when administered in excess. There
was no disgrace whatever in what was common to all, for although
some of the boys of superior ability and perseverance would escape
with a smaller amount of punishment than their fellows, none could
hope to escape altogether. Thus it was only the pain that they had
to bear, and even this became to some extent deadened by repetition,
and was forgotten as soon as inflicted, save when a sudden movement
caused a sharp pain in back or leg. Once in the playground their
spirits revived, and except a few whose recent punishment incapacitated
them for a time from active exercise, the whole were soon intent
upon their games.

One only of the party wore his cap, and he after a few minutes left
the others, and went toward a door which led from the playground
into the road.

"Don't be long, Sankey; come back as soon as you can, you know we
agreed to go fishing this afternoon."

"All right, Tompkins; I will come back directly I have done my
dinner. I expect I shall have finished quite as soon as you will."

Edward Sankey, who was regarded with envy by his schoolfellows,
was the only home boarder at Hathorn's; for, as a general thing,
the master set his face against the introduction of home boarders.
They were, he considered, an element of disturbance; they carry
tales to and from the school; they cause discontent among the
other boys, and their parents are in the habit of protesting and
interfering. Not, indeed, that parents in those days considered it
in any way a hardship for their boys to suffer corporal punishment;
they had been flogged at school, and they believed that they had
learned their lessons all the better for it. Naturally the same thing
would happen to their sons. Still mothers are apt to be weak and
soft hearted, and therefore Mr. Hathorn objected to home boarders.

He had made an exception in Sankey's case; his father was of a
different type to those of the majority of his boys; he had lost
his leg at the battle of Assaye, and had been obliged to leave the
army, and having but small means beyond his pension, had settled
near the quiet little Yorkshire town as a place where he could
live more cheaply than in more bustling localities. He had, when he
first came, no acquaintances whatever in the place, and therefore
would not be given to discuss with the parents of other boys the
doings in the school. Not that Mr. Hathorn was afraid of discussion,
for he regarded his school as almost perfect of its kind. Still
it was his fixed opinion that discussion was, as a general rule,
unadvisable. Therefore, when Captain Sankey, a few weeks after taking
up his residence in the locality, made a proposal to him that his
son should attend his school as a home boarder, Mr. Hathorn acceded
to the proposition, stating frankly his objections, as a rule, to
boys of that class.

"I shall not interfere," Captain Sankey said. "Of course boys must
be thrashed, and provided that the punishment is not excessive,
and that it is justly administered, I have nothing to say against
it. Boys must be punished, and if you don't flog you have to confine
them, and in my opinion that is far worse for a boy's temper,
spirit, and health."

So Ned Sankey went to Hathorn's, and was soon a great favorite there.
Just at first he was regarded as a disobliging fellow because he
adhered strictly to a stipulation which Mr. Hathorn had made, that
he should not bring things in from the town for his school fellows.
Only once a week, on the Saturday half holiday, were the boys allowed
outside the bounds of the wall round the playground, and although
on Wednesday an old woman was allowed to come into those precincts
to sell fruit, cakes, and sweets, many articles were wanted in
the course of the week, and the boys took it much amiss for a time
that Ned refused to act as their messenger; but he was firm in his
refusals. His father had told him not to do so, and his father's
word was law to him; but when the boys saw that in all other respects
he was a thoroughly good fellow, they soon forgave him what they
considered his undue punctiliousness, and he became a prime favorite
in the school.

It is due to Mr. Hathorn to say that no fear of interference
induced him to mitigate his rule to thrash when he considered that
punishment was necessary, and that Ned received his full share of
the general discipline. He was never known to utter a cry under
punishment, for he was, as his school fellows said admiringly, as
hard as nails; and he was, moreover, of a dogged disposition which
would have enabled him, when he had once determined upon a thing,
to carry it through even if it killed him. Mr. Hathorn regarded
this quality as obstinacy, the boys as iron resolution; and while
the former did his best to conquer what he regarded as a fault, the
boys encouraged by their admiration what they viewed as a virtue.

At home Ned never spoke of his punishments; and if his father
observed a sudden movement which told of a hidden pain, and would
say cheerfully, "What! have you been getting it again, Ned?" the
boy would smile grimly and nod, but no complaint ever passed his
lips.

There was no disgrace in being flogged--it was the natural lot
of schoolboys; why should he make a fuss about it? So he held his
tongue. But Mr. Hathorn was not altogether wrong. Ned Sankey was
obstinate, but though obstinate he was by no means sulky. When he
made up his mind to do a thing he did it, whether it was to be at
the top of his class in order to please his father, or to set his
teeth like iron and let no sound issue from them as Mr. Hathorn's
cane descended on his back.

Ned Sankey was about fourteen years of age. He had a brother and
a sister, but between them and himself was a gap of four years, as
some sisters who had been born after him had died in infancy. Ned
adored his father, who was a most kind and genial man, and would
have suffered anything in silence rather than have caused him any
troubles or annoyance by complaining to him.

For his mother his feelings were altogether different. She was a
kindly and well intentioned woman, but weak and silly. On leaving
school she had gone out to join her father in India. Captain
Sankey had sailed in the same ship and, taken by her pretty face
and helpless, dependent manner, he had fallen in love with her,
knowing nothing of her real disposition, and they had been married
upon their arrival at the termination of the voyage. So loyal
was his nature that it is probable Captain Sankey never admitted
even to himself that his marriage had been a mistake; but none of
his comrades ever doubted it. His wife turned out one of the most
helpless of women. Under the plea of ill health she had at a very
early period of their marriage given up all attempt to manage the
affairs of the household, and her nerves were wholly unequal to
the strain of looking after her children. It was noticeable that
though her health was unequal to the discharge of her duties, she
was always well enough to take part in any pleasure or gayety which
might be going on; and as none of the many doctors who attended her
were able to discover any specific ailment, the general opinion
was that Mrs. Sankey's ill health was the creation of her own
imagination. This, however, was not wholly the case. She was not
strong; and although, had she made an effort, she would have been
able to look after her children like other women, she had neither
the disposition nor the training to make that effort.

Her son regarded her with the sort of pity, not unmingled with
contempt, with which young people full of life and energy are apt
to regard those who are weak and ailing without having any specific
disease or malady which would account for their condition.

"All the bothers fall upon father," he would say to himself; "and
if mother did but make up her mind she could take her share in them
well enough. There was he walking about for two hours this evening
with little Lucy in his arms, because she had fallen down and hurt
herself; and there was mother lying on the sofa reading that book
of poetry, as if nothing that happened in the house was any affair
of hers. She is very nice and very kind, but I do wish she wouldn't
leave everything for father to do. It might have been all very well
before he lost his leg, but I do think she ought to make an effort
now."

However, Mrs. Sankey made no effort, nor did her husband ever hint
that it would be better for herself as well as her family if she
did so. He accepted the situation as inevitable, and patiently,
and indeed willingly, bore her burden as well as his own.

Fortunately she had in the children's nurse an active and trustworthy
woman. Abijah Wolf was a Yorkshire woman. She had in her youth
been engaged to a lad in her native village. In a moment of drunken
folly, a short time before the day fixed for their wedding, he
had been persuaded to enlist. Abijah had waited patiently for him
twelve years. Then he had returned a sergeant, and she had married
him and followed him with his regiment, which was that in which
Captain Sankey--at that time a young ensign--served. When the
latter's first child was born at Madras there was a difficulty in
obtaining a white nurse, and Mrs. Sankey declared that she would
not trust the child to a native. Inquiries were therefore made in
the regiment, and Sergeant Wolf's wife, who had a great love for
children although childless herself, volunteered to fill the post
for a time. A few months afterward Sergeant Wolf was killed in a
fight with a marauding hill tribe. His widow, instead of returning
home and living on the little pension to which she was entitled at
his death, remained in the service of the Sankeys, who soon came
to regard her as invaluable.

She was somewhat rough in her ways and sharp with her tongue; but
even Mrs. Sankey, who was often ruffled by her brusque independence,
was conscious of her value, and knew that she should never obtain
another servant who would take the trouble of the children so entirely
off her hands. She retained, indeed, her privilege of grumbling,
and sometimes complained to her husband that Abijah's ways were
really unbearable. Still she never pressed the point, and Abijah
appeared established as a permanent fixture in the Sankeys' household.
She it was who, when, after leaving the service, Captain Sankey
was looking round for a cheap and quiet residence, had recommended
Marsden.

"There is a grand air from the hills," she said, "which will be
just the thing for the children. There's good fishing in the stream
for yourself, captain, and you can't get a quieter and cheaper place
in all England. I ought to know, for I was born upon the moorland
but six miles away from it, and should have been there now if I
hadn't followed my man to the wars."

"Where are you going, Master Ned?" she asked as the boy, having
finished his dinner, ran to the high cupboard at the end of the
passage near the kitchen to get his fishing rod.

"I am going out fishing, Abijah."

"Not by yourself, I hope?"

"No; another fellow is going with me. We are going up into the
hills."

"Don't ye go too far, Master Ned. They say the croppers are drilling
on the moors, and it were bad for ye if you fell in with them."

"They wouldn't hurt me if I did."

"I don't suppose they would," the nurse said, "but there is never
no saying. Poor fellows! they're druv well nigh out of their senses
with the bad times. What with the machines, and the low price of
labor, and the high price of bread, they are having a terrible time
of it. And no wonder that we hear of frame breaking in Nottingham,
and Lancashire, and other places. How men can be wicked enough to
make machines, to take the bread out of poor men's mouths, beats
me altogether."

"Father says the machinery will do good in the long run, Abijah
--that it will largely increase trade, and so give employment to
a great many more people than at present. But it certainly is hard
on those who have learned to work in one way to see their living
taken away from them."

"Hard!" the nurse said. "I should say it were hard. I know the
croppers, for there were a score of them in my village, and a rough,
wild lot they were. They worked hard and they drank hard, and the
girl as chose a cropper for a husband was reckoned to have made a
bad match of it; but they are determined fellows, and you will see
they won't have the bread taken out of their mouths without making
a fight for it."

"That may be," Ned said, "for every one gives them the name of a
rough lot; but I must talk to you about it another time, Abijah,
I have got to be off;" and having now found his fishing rod, his
box of bait, his paper of books, and a basket to bring home the fish
he intended to get, Ned ran off at full speed toward the school.

As Abijah Wolf had said, the croppers of the West Riding were a
rough set. Their occupation consisted in shearing or cropping the
wool on the face of cloths. They used a large pair of shears, which
were so set that one blade went under the cloth while the other
worked on its upper face, mowing the fibers and ends of the wool to
a smooth, even surface. The work was hard and required considerable
skill, and the men earned about twenty-four shillings a week, a
sum which, with bread and all other necessities of life at famine
prices, barely sufficed for the support of their families. The
introduction of power looms threatened to abolish their calling.
It was true that although these machines wove the cloth more evenly
and smoothly than the hand looms, croppers were still required to
give the necessary smoothness of face; still the tendency had been
to lower wages.

The weavers were affected even more than the croppers, for strength
and skill were not so needed to tend the power looms as to work the
hand looms. Women and boys could do the work previously performed
by men, and the tendency of wages was everywhere to fall.

For years a deep spirit of discontent had been seething among the
operatives in the cotton and woolen manufactures, and there had been
riots more or less serious in Derbyshire, Nottingham, Lancashire
and Yorkshire, which in those days were the headquarters of these
trades. Factories had been burned, employers threatened and attacked,
and the obnoxious machines smashed. It was the vain struggle of
the ignorant and badly paid people to keep down production and to
keep up wages, to maintain manual labor against the power of the
steam engine.

Hitherto factories had been rare, men working the frames in their
own homes, and utilizing the labor of their wives and families,
and the necessity of going miles away to work in the mills, where
the looms were driven by steam, added much to the discontent.

Having found his fishing appliances Ned hurried off to the school,
where his chum Tompkins was already waiting him, and the two set
out at once on their expedition.

They had four miles to walk to reach the spot where they intended
to fish. It was a quiet little stream with deep pools and many
shadows, and had its source in the heart of the moorlands. Neither
of them had ever tried it before, but they had heard it spoken
of as one of the best streams for fish in that part. On reaching
its banks the rods were put together, the hooks were baited with
worms, and a deep pool being chosen they set to work. After fishing
for some time without success they tried a pool higher up, and so
mounted higher and higher up the stream, but ever with the same
want of success.

"How could they have said that this was a good place for fish?"
Tompkins said angrily at last. "Why, by this time it would have
been hard luck if we had not caught a dozen between us where we
usually fish close to the town, and after our long walk we have
not had even a bite."

"I fancy, Tompkins," Ned said, "that we are a couple of fools.
I know it is trout that they catch in this stream, and of course,
now I think of it, trout are caught in clear water with a fly, not
with a worm. Father said the other day he would take me out some
Saturday and give me a lesson in fly fishing. How he will laugh
when I tell him we have wasted all our afternoon in trying to catch
trout with worms!"

"I don't see anything to laugh at," Tompkins grumbled. "Here we
waste a whole half holiday, and nothing to show for it, and have
got six or seven miles at least to tramp back to school."

"Well, we have had a nice walk," Ned said, "even if we are caught
in the rain. However, we may as well put up our rods and start. I
vote we try to make a straight cut home; it must be ever so much
shorter to go in a straight line than to follow all the windings
of this stream."

They had long since left the low lands, where trees and bushes
bordered the stream, and were in a lonely valley where the hills
came down close to the little stream, which sparkled among the
boulders at their feet. The slopes were covered with a crop of short
wiry grass through which the gray stone projected here and there.
Tiny rills of water made their way down the hillside to swell the
stream, and the tinge of brown which showed up wherever these found
a level sufficient to form a pool told that they had their source
in the bogs on the moorland above. Tompkins looked round him rather
disconcertedly.

"I don't know," he said. "It's a beastly long way to walk round;
but suppose we got lost in trying to make our way across the hills."

"Well, just as you like," Ned said, "I am game to walk back the
way we came or to try and make a straight cut, only mind don't you
turn round and blame me afterward. You take your choice; whichever
you vote for I am ready to do."

"My shoes are beginning to rub my heels," Tompkins said, "so I
will take the shortest way and risk it. I don't see we can go far
out of our way."

"I don't see that we can," Ned replied. "Marsden lies to the east,
so we have only to keep our backs to the sun; it won't be down for
another two hours yet, and before that we ought to be in."

By this time they had taken their rods to pieces, wound up their
lines, and were ready to start. A few minutes' sharp climbing took
them to the top of the slope. They were now upon the moor, which
stretched away with slight undulations as far as they could see.

"Now," Ned said, "we will make for that clump of rocks. They seem
to be just in the line we ought to take, and by fixing our eyes
upon them we shall go straight."

This, however, was not as easy to do as Ned had fancied; the ground
was in many places so soft and boggy that they were forced to make
considerable detours. Nevertheless the rocks served as a beacon,
and enabled them to keep the right direction; but although they made
their way at the best of their speed it was an hour after starting
before they approached the rock.

When they were within fifty yards of it a figure suddenly rose. It
was that of a boy some fifteen years of age.

"Goa back," he shouted; "dang yer, what be'est a cooming here vor?"

The two boys stopped astonished.

"We are going to Marsden," Ned replied; "but what's that to you?"

"Doan't ee moind wot it be to oi," the boy said; "oi tell ee ee
can't goa no further; yoi've got ter go back."

"We shan't go back," Ned said; "we have got as much right to go
this way as you have. This is not your land; and if it is, we ain't
hurting it."

By this time they were at the foot of the pile of rocks, and the
lad was standing some ten feet above them.

"Oi tell ee," he repeated doggedly, "yoi've got vor to go back."

The boy was so much bigger and stronger than either Ned or his
companion that the former, although indignant at this interference,
did not deem it prudent to attempt to climb the crag, so he said
to Tompkins: "Of course we ain't going back, but we had better take
a turn so as to get out of the way of this fellow."

So saying they turned to the right and prepared to scout round the
rock and continue their way; but this did not suit their obstructor.

"If ee doan't go back at oncet oi'll knock the heads off thee
shoulders."

"We can't go back," Tompkins said desperately, "we are both as
tired as we can be, and my heel is so sore that I can hardly walk.
We shouldn't get to Marsden tonight if we were to turn back."

"That's nowt to oi," the boy said. "Oi bain't a-going to let ee
pass here."

"What are we to do, Ned?" Tompkins groaned.

"Do!" Ned replied indignantly. "Why, go on, of course. Marsden
cannot be more than three miles off, and I ain't going to walk
twelve miles round to please this obstinate brute."

If you ever think of returning to England, as I hope it will be
long first, you must prepare yourself with Methodism.

I really believe that by that time it will be necessary: this
sect increases as fast as almost ever any religious nonsense did.

Lady Fanny Shirley has chosen this way of bestowing the dregs of
her beauty; and Mr.

Lyttelton is very near making the same sacrifice of the dregs of
all those various characters that he has worn.

The Methodists love your big sinners, as proper subjects to work
upon--and indeed they have a plentiful harvest--I think what you
call flagrancy was never more in fashion. Drinking is at the
highest wine-mark; and gaming joined with it so violent, that at
the last Newmarket meeting, in the rapidity of both, a bank-bill
was thrown down, and nobody immediately claiming it, they agreed
to give it to a man that was standing by....

_EARTHQUAKE IN LONDON--GENERAL PANIC--MARRIAGE OF CASIMIR, KING
OF POLAND._

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, _March_ 11, 1750.

Portents and prodigies are grown so frequent, That they have lost
their name.

My text is not literally true; but as far as earthquakes go towards
lowering the price of wonderful commodities, to be sure we are
overstocked.

We have had a second, much more violent than the first; and you
must not be surprised if by next post you hear of a burning mountain
sprung up in Smithfield. In the night between Wednesday and Thursday
last (exactly a month since the first shock), the earth had a
shivering fit between one and two; but so slight that, if no
more had followed, I don't believe it would have been noticed.

I had been awake, and had scarce dozed again--on a sudden I felt my
bolster lift up my head; I thought somebody was getting from under
my bed, but soon found it was a strong earthquake, that lasted near
half a minute, with a violent vibration and great roaring.

I rang my bell; my servant came in, frightened out of his senses:
in an instant we heard all the windows in the neighbourhood flung
up.

I got up and found people running into the streets, but saw no mischief
done: there has been some; two old houses flung down, several
chimneys, and much chinaware. The bells rung in several houses.
Admiral Knowles, who has lived long in Jamaica, and felt seven
there, says this was more violent than any of them: Francesco
prefers it to the dreadful one at Leghorn.

The wise say,[1] that if we have not rain soon, we shall certainly
have more. Several people are going out of town, for it has nowhere
reached above ten miles from London: they say, they are not
frightened, but that it is such fine weather, "Lord!

one can't help going into the country!" The only visible effect it
has had, was on the Ridotto, at which, being the following night,
there were but four hundred people. A parson, who came into White's
the morning of earthquake the first, and heard bets laid on whether
it was an earthquake or the blowing up of powder mills, went away
exceedingly scandalized, and said, "I protest, they are such an
impious set of people, that I believe if the last trumpet was to
sound, they would bet puppet-show against Judgment."

If we get any nearer still to the torrid zone, I shall pique
myself on sending you a present of cedrati and orange-flower water:
I am already planning a _terreno_ for Strawberry Hill.

[Footnote 1: In an earlier letter Walpole mentions that Sir I.

Newton had foretold a great alteration in the English climate in
1750.]
The Middlesex election is carried against the Court: the Prince,
in a green frock (and I won't swear, but in a Scotch plaid waistcoat),
sat under the Park-wall in his chair, and hallooed the voters on
to Brentford.

The Jacobites are so transported, that they are opening subscriptions
for all boroughs that shall be vacant--this is wise! They will spend
their money to carry a few more seats in a Parliament where they
will never have the majority, and so have none to carry the general
elections.

The omen, however, is bad for Westminster; the High Bailiff went to
vote for the Opposition.

I now jump to another topic; I find all this letter will be detached
scraps; I can't at all contrive to hide the seams: but I don't care.

I began my letter merely to tell you of the earthquake, and I
don't pique myself upon doing any more than telling you what you
would be glad to have told you.

I told you too how pleased I was with the triumphs of another old
beauty, our friend the Princess.

Do you know, I have found a history that has great resemblance to
hers; that is, that will be very like hers, if hers is but like it.

I will tell it you in as few words as I can. Madame la Maréchale
l'Hôpital was the daughter of a seamstress; a young gentleman fell
in love with her, and was going to be married to her, but the match
was broken off.

An old fermier-general, who had retired into the province where this
happened, hearing the story, had a curiosity to see the victim;
he liked her, married her, died, and left her enough not to care
for her inconstant.

She came to Paris, where the Maréchal de l'Hôpital married her for her
riches. After the Maréchal's death, Casimir, the abdicated King
of Poland, who was retired into France, fell in love with the
Maréchale, and privately married her.

If the event ever happens, I shall certainly travel to Nancy, to
hear her talk of _ma belle fille la Reine de France_. What pains my
Lady Pomfret would take to prove that an abdicated King's wife did
not take place of an English countess; and how the Princess herself
would grow still fonder of the Pretender for the similitude of his
fortune with that of _le Roi mon mari_!

Her daughter, Mirepoix, was frightened the other night, with Mrs.
Nugent's calling out, _un voleur! un voleur_! The ambassadress had
heard so much of robbing, that she did not doubt but _dans ce pais
cy_, they robbed in the middle of an assembly.

It turned out to be a _thief in the candle_! Good night!

GENERAL PANIC--SHERLOCK'S PASTORAL LETTER--PREDICTIONS OF MORE
EARTHQUAKES--A GENERAL FLIGHT FROM LONDON--EPIGRAMS BY CHUTE AND
WALPOLE HIMSELF--FRENCH TRANSLATION OF MILTON.

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, _April_ 2, 1750.

You will not wonder so much at our earthquakes as at the effects
they have had.

All the women in town have taken them up upon the foot of _Judgments_;
and the clergy, who have had no windfalls of a long season, have
driven horse and foot into this opinion.

There has been a shower of sermons and exhortations: Seeker, the
Jesuitical Bishop of Oxford, began the mode.

He heard the women were all going out of town to avoid the next
shock; and so, for fear of losing his Easter offerings, he set
himself to advise them to await God's good pleasure in fear and
trembling. But what is more astonishing, Sherlock, who has much
better sense, and much less of the Popish confessor, has been
running a race with him for the old ladies, and has written a
pastoral letter, of which ten thousand were sold in two days; and
fifty thousand have been subscribed for, since the two first
editions.

I told you the women talked of going out of town: several families
are literally gone, and many more going to-day and to-morrow; for
what adds to the absurdity, is, that the second shock having happened
exactly a month after the former, it prevails that there will be a
third on Thursday next, another month, which is to swallow up London.

I am almost ready to burn my letter now I have begun it, lest you
should think I am laughing at you: but it is so true, that Arthur
of White's told me last night, that he should put off the last
ridotto, which was to be on Thursday, because he hears nobody would
come to it.

I have advised several, who are going to keep their next earthquake
in the country, to take the bark for it, as it is so periodic.[1]
Dick Leveson and Mr.

Rigby, who had supped and stayed late at Bedford House the other
night, knocked at several doors, and in a watchman's voice cried,
"Past four o'clock, and a dreadful earthquake!"...

[Footnote 1: "I remember," says Addison, in the 240th _Tatler_,
"when our whole island was shaken with an earthquake some years ago,
that there was an impudent mountebank who sold pills, which, as
he told the country people, were 'very good against an earthquake.'"]

This frantic terror prevails so much, that within these three days
seven hundred and thirty coaches have been counted passing Hyde
Park corner, with whole parties removing into the country.

Here is a good advertisement which I cut out of the papers to-day:--

"On Monday next will be published (price 6_d._) A true and exact
List of all the Nobility and Gentry who have left, or shall leave,
this place through fear of another Earthquake."

Several women have made earthquake gowns; that is, warm gowns to sit
out of doors all to-night. These are of the more courageous.

One woman, still more heroic, is come to town on purpose: she says,
all her friends are in London, and she will not survive them.

But what will you think of Lady Catherine Pelham, Lady Frances
Arundel, and Lord and Lady Galway, who go this evening to an inn
ten miles out of town, where they are to play at brag till five in
the morning, and then come back--I suppose, to look for the bones
of their husbands and families under the rubbish.

The prophet of all this (next to the Bishop of London) is a trooper
of Lord Delawar's, who was yesterday sent to Bedlam. His _colonel_
sent to the man's wife, and asked her if her husband had ever been
disordered before.

She cried, "Oh dear! my lord, he is not mad now; if your _lordship_
would but get any _sensible_ man to examine him, you would find
he is quite in his right mind."...

I shall now go and show you Mr. Chute in a different light from
heraldry, and in one in which I believe you never saw him.

He will shine as usual; but, as a little more severely than his
good-nature is accustomed to, I must tell you that he was provoked
by the most impertinent usage.

It is an epigram on Lady Caroline Petersham, whose present fame,
by the way, is coupled with young Harry Vane.

WHO IS THIS?

Her face has beauty, we must all confess, But beauty on the brink
of ugliness:

Her mouth's a rabbit feeding on a rose; With eyes--ten times too
good for such a nose!
Her blooming cheeks--what paint could ever draw 'em?
That paint, for which no mortal ever saw 'em.
Air without shape--of royal race divine-- 'Tis Emily--oh! fie!--'tis
Caroline.

Do but think of my beginning a third sheet!

but as the Parliament is rising, and I shall probably not write you
a tolerably long letter again these eight months, I will lay in
a stock of merit with you to last me so long. Mr.

Chute has set me too upon making epigrams; but as I have not his
art mine is almost a copy of verses: the story he told me, and is
literally true, of an old Lady Bingley:

Celia now had completed some thirty campaigns, And for new generations
was hammering chains; When whetting those terrible weapons, her
eyes, To Jenny, her handmaid, in anger she cries, "Careless creature!

did mortal e'er see such a glass!
Who that saw me in this, could e'er guess what I was!

Much you mind what I say! pray how oft have I bid you Provide
me a new one? how oft have I chid you?" "Lord, Madam!" cried
Jane, "you're so hard to be pleased!
I am sure every glassman in town I have teased:
I have hunted each shop from Pall Mall to Cheapside:
Both Miss Carpenter's man, and Miss Banks's I've tried."

"Don't tell me of those girls!--all I know, to my cost, Is, the
looking-glass art must be certainly lost!

One used to have mirrors so smooth and so bright, They did one's eyes
justice, they heightened one's white, And fresh roses diffused o'er
one's bloom--but, alas!
In the glasses made now, one detests one's own face; They pucker
one's cheeks up and furrow one's brow, And one's skin looks as
yellow as that of Miss Howe!"
After an epigram that seems to have found out the longitude, I shall
tell you but one more, and that wondrous short.

It is said to be made by a cow. You must not wonder; we tell as
many strange stories as Baker and Livy:

A warm winter, a dry spring, A hot summer, a new King.

Though the sting is very epigrammatic, the whole of the distich has
more of the truth than becomes prophecy; that is, it is false, for
the spring is wet and cold.

There is come from France a Madame Bocage,[1] who has translated
Milton:
my Lord Chesterfield prefers the copy to the original; but that is
not uncommon for him to do, who is the patron of bad authors and
bad actors.
She has written a play too, which was damned, and worthy my lord's
approbation.

You would be more diverted with a Mrs. Holman, whose passion is
keeping an assembly, and inviting literally everybody to it.
She goes to the drawing-room to watch for sneezes; whips out a
curtsey, and then sends next morning to know how your cold does,
and to desire your company next Thursday.

[Footnote 1: Madame du Boccage published a poem in imitation of
Milton, and another founded on Gesner's "Death of Abel."

She also translated Pope's "Temple of Fame;" but her principal
work was "La Columbiade." It was at the house of this lady, at
Paris, in 1775, that Johnson was annoyed at her footman's taking
the sugar in his fingers and throwing it into his coffee.

"I was going," says the Doctor, "to put it aside, but hearing it was
made on purpose for me, I e'en tasted Tom's fingers."

She died in 1802.]
Mr.

Whithed has taken my Lord Pembroke's house at Whitehall; a
glorious situation, but as madly built as my lord himself was.
He has bought some delightful pictures too, of Claude, Caspar and
good masters, to the amount of four hundred pounds.

Good night!

I have nothing more to tell you, but that I have lately seen a Sir
William Boothby, who saw you about a year ago, and adores you, as
all the English you receive ought to do. He is much in my
favour.

_DEATH OF WALPOLE'S BROTHER, AND OF THE PRINCE OF WALES--SPEECH OF
THE YOUNG PRINCE--SINGULAR SERMON ON HIS DEATH._
TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, _April_ 1, 1751.

How shall I begin a letter that will--that must--give you as much
pain as I feel myself?

I must interrupt the story of the Prince's death, to tell you
of _two_ more, much more important, God knows! to you and me!
One I had prepared you for--but how will you be shocked to hear
that our poor Mr. Whithed is dead as well as my brother!...

I now must mention my own misfortune. Tuesday, Wednesday, and
Thursday mornings, the physicians and _all the family of painful
death_ (to alter Gray's phrase), were persuaded and persuaded me,
that the bark, which took great place, would save my brother's
life--but he relapsed at three o'clock on Thursday, and died last
night.

He ordered to be drawn and executed his will with the greatest
tranquillity and satisfaction on Saturday morning. His spoils
are prodigious--not to his own family!
indeed I think his son the most ruined young man in England. My
loss, I fear, may be considerable, which is not the only motive
of my concern, though, as you know, I had much to forgive, before
I could regret: but indeed I do regret.

It is no small addition to my concern, to fear or foresee that
Houghton and all the remains of my father's glory will be pulled
to pieces! The widow-Countess immediately marries--not Richcourt,
but Shirley, and triumphs in advancing her son's ruin by enjoying
her own estate, and tearing away great part of his.

Now I will divert your private grief by talking to you of what is
called the public.

The King and Princess are grown as fond as if they had never been of
different parties, or rather as people who always had been of
different.
You would be able to say
truthfully that finding that he was hurt, you went off, and happened
to come upon four men on the moor and brought them to his assistance."

"I promised to go up to see the boy, father. I suppose that there
is no harm?"

"None at all, Ned, it is only natural that you should entertain
the wish; in fact you have injured him seriously, and we must do
all in our power to alleviate his pain. I will go in the morning
and see Dr. Green. I shall, of course, tell him that the boy was
hurt in a tussle with you, and that you are very sorry about it.
The fact that he is some two years older, as you say, and ever so
much stronger and bigger, is in itself a proof that you were not
likely to have wantonly provoked a fight with him. I shall ask the
doctor if there is anything in the way of food and comforts I can
send up for him."

Accordingly, the next morning, the first thing after breakfast,
Captain Sankey went out and called upon the doctor. Ned awaited
his return anxiously.

"The doctor says it's a bad fracture, Ned, a very bad fracture,
and the boy must have had his leg curiously twisted under him for
the bone to have snapped in such a way. He questions whether it
will be possible to save the leg; indeed, he would have taken it
off last night, but the boy said he would rather die, and the men
were all against it. By the help of half a dozen men he got the
bones into their places again, and has bandaged the leg up with
splints; but he is very doubtful what will come of it."

Ned was crying now.

"I would give anything if it hadn't happened, father, and he really
seemed a nice fellow. He said over and over again he didn't want
to hurt us, and I am sure he didn't, only he thought he oughtn't
to let us pass, and as we would go on he had to stop us."

"Well, it can't be helped, Ned," his father said kindly. "It is
very natural that you should be grieved about it; but you see it
really was an accident; there was nothing willful or intentional
about it, and you must not take it to heart more than you can help."

But Ned did take it to heart, and for the next fortnight was very
miserable. I have been told, for instance, that among the little
group of women who in 1906 and 1907 brought the question of
Women's Suffrage within the sphere of practical politics, was one
who had received a serious academic training in psychology, and
that the tactics actually employed were in large part due to her
plea that in order to make men think one must begin by making them
feel.[57]
[57] Mrs.

Pankhurst is reported, in the _Observer_ of July 26, 1908, to have
said, 'Whatever the women who were called Suffragists might be, they
at least understood how to bring themselves in touch with the
public. They had caught the spirit of the age, learnt the art of
advertising.'
A Hindoo agitator, again, Mr. Chandra Pal, who also had read
psychology, imitated Lord Lansdowne a few months ago by saying,
'Applying the principles of psychology to the consideration of
political problems we find it is necessary that we ... should do
nothing that will make the Government a power for us. Because if
the Government becomes easy, if it becomes pleasant, if it becomes
good government, then our signs of separation from it will be
gradually lost.'[58] Mr. Chandra Pal, unlike Lord Lansdowne, was
shortly afterwards imprisoned, but his words have had an important
political effect in India.

[58] Quoted in _Times_, June 3, 1907.

If this mental attitude and the tactics based on it succeed, they
must, it may be argued, spread with constantly increasing rapidity;
and just as, by Gresham's Law in commerce, base coin, if there is
enough of it, must drive out sterling coin, so in politics, must
the easier and more immediately effective drive out the more difficult
and less effective method of appeal.

One cannot now answer such an argument by a mere statement that
knowledge will make men wise. It was easy in the old days to rely
on the belief that human life and conduct would become perfect if
men only learnt to know themselves. Before Darwin, most political
speculators used to sketch a perfect polity which would result from
the complete adoption of their principles, the republics of Plato
and of More, Bacon's Atlantis, Locke's plea for a government which
should consciously realise the purposes of God, or Bentham's
Utilitarian State securely founded upon the Table of the Springs of
Action.

We, however, who live after Darwin, have learnt the hard lesson that
we must not expect knowledge, however full, to lead us to perfection.
The modern student of physiology believes that if his work is
successful, men may have better health than they would have if they
were more ignorant, but he does not dream of producing a perfectly
healthy nation; and he is always prepared to face the discovery that
biological causes which he cannot control may be tending to make
health worse. Nor does the writer on education now argue that
he can make perfect characters in his schools. If our imaginations
ever start on the old road to Utopia, we are checked by remembering
that we are blood-relations of the other animals, and that we have
no more right than our kinsfolk to suppose that the mind of the
universe has contrived that we can find a perfect life by looking
for it.

The bees might to-morrow become conscious of their own nature,
and of the waste of life and toil which goes on in the best ordered
hive.
And yet they might learn that no greatly improved organisation
was possible for creatures hampered by such limited powers of
observation and inference, and enslaved by such furious passions.

They might be forced to recognise that as long as they were bees
their life must remain bewildered and violent and short. Political
inquiry deals with man as he now is, and with the changes in the
organisation of his life that can be made during the next few
centuries.

It may be that some scores of generations hence, we shall have
discovered that the improvements in government which can be
brought about by such inquiry, are insignificant when compared
with the changes which will be made possible when, through the
hazardous experiment of selective breeding, we have altered the
human type itself.

But however anxious we are to see the facts of our existence without
illusion, and to hope nothing without cause, we can still draw some
measure of comfort from the recollection that during the few
thousand years through which we can trace political history in
the past, man, without changing his nature, has made enormous
improvements in his polity, and that those improvements have often
been the result of new moral ideals formed under the influence of
new knowledge.

The ultimate and wider effect on our conduct of any increase in our
knowledge may indeed be very different from, and more important
than, its immediate and narrower effect.

We each of us live our lives in a pictured universe, of which only
a small part is contributed by our own observation and memory,
and by far the greater part by what we have learnt from others.
The changes in that mental picture of our environment made for instance
by the discovery of America, or the ascertainment of the true
movements of the nearer heavenly bodies, exercised an influence on
men's general conception of their place in the universe, which
proved ultimately to be more important than their immediate
effect in stimulating explorers and improving the art of navigation.

But none of the changes of outlook in the past have approached in
their extent and significance those which have been in progress
during the last fifty years, the new history of man and his
surroundings, stretching back through hitherto unthought-of ages,
the substitution of an illimitable vista of ever changing worlds
for the imagined perfection of the ordered heavens, and above all
the intrusion of science into the most intimate regions of ourselves.

The effects of such changes often come, it is true, more slowly
than we hope.

I was talking not long ago to one of the ablest of those who were
beginning their intellectual life when Darwin published the _Origin
of Species_.

He told me how he and his philosopher brother expected that at
once all things should become new, and how unwillingly as the years
went on they had accepted their disappointment.

But though slow, they are far-reaching.

To myself it seems that the most important political result of the
vast range of new knowledge started by Darwin's work may prove
to be the extension of the idea of conduct so as to include the
control of mental processes of which at present most men are either
unconscious or unobservant.

The limits of our conscious conduct are fixed by the limits of our
self-knowledge.

Before men knew anger as something separable from the self that knew
it, and before they had made that knowledge current by the invention
of a name, the control of anger was not a question of conduct.
Anger was a part of the angry man himself, and could only be
checked by the invasion of some other passion, love, for instance,
or fear, which was equally, while it lasted, a part of self. The
man survived to continue his race if anger or fear or love came
upon him at the right time, and with the right intensity.

But when man had named his anger, and could stand outside it in
thought, anger came within the region of conduct, Henceforth, in
that respect, man could choose either the old way of half-conscious
obedience to an impulse which on the whole had proved useful in his
past evolution, or the new way of fully conscious control directed
by a calculation of results.

A man who has become conscious of the nature of fear, and has acquired
the power of controlling it, if he sees a boulder bounding towards
him down a torrent bed, may either obey the immediate impulse to
leap to one side, or may substitute conduct for instinct, and stand
where he is because he has calculated that at the next bound the course
of the boulder will be deflected. If he decides to stand he may
be wrong.

It may prove by the event that the immediate impulse of fear
was, owing to the imperfection of his powers of conscious inference,
a safer guide than the process of calculation. But because
he has the choice, even the decision to follow impulse is a question
of conduct.

Burke was sincerely convinced that men's power of political reasoning
was so utterly inadequate to their task, that all his life long he
urged the English nation to follow prescription, to obey, that is
to say, on principle their habitual political impulses. But the
deliberate following of prescription which Burke advocated was
something different, because it was the result of choice, from the
uncalculated loyalty of the past.
Those who have eaten of the tree of knowledge cannot forget.

In other matters than politics the influence of the fruit of that
tree is now spreading further over our lives.

Whether we will or not, the old unthinking obedience to appetite
in eating is more and more affected by our knowledge, imperfect
though that be, of the physiological results of the quantity and
kind of our food.

Mr. Chesterton cries out, like the Cyclops in the play, against
those who complicate the life of man, and tells us to eat 'caviare
on impulse,' instead of 'grape nuts on principle.'[59] But since
we cannot unlearn our knowledge, Mr. Chesterton is only telling
us to eat caviare on principle. The physician, when he knows the
part which mental suggestion plays in the cure of disease, may hate
and fear his knowledge, but he cannot divest himself of it. He finds
himself watching the unintended effects of his words and tones
and gestures, until he realises that in spite of himself he is
calculating the means by which such effects can be produced. After
a time, even his patients may learn to watch the effect of 'a
good bedside manner' on themselves.

[59] _Heretics_, 1905, p. 136.

So in politics, now that knowledge of the obscurer impulses of mankind
is being spread (if only by the currency of new words), the
relation both of the politician and the voter to those impulses
is changing. As soon as American politicians called a certain
kind of specially paid orator a 'spell-binder,' the word penetrated
through the newspapers from politicians to audiences. The man
who knows that he has paid two dollars to sit in a hall and be
'spell-bound,' feels, it is true, the old sensations, but feels
them with a subtle and irrevocable difference.

The English newspaper reader who has once heard the word
'sensational,' may try to submit every morning the innermost sanctuary
of his consciousness to the trained psychologists of the halfpenny
journals. He may, according to the suggestion of the day, loathe
the sixty million crafty scoundrels who inhabit the German Empire,
shudder at a coming comet, pity the cowards on the Government Front
Bench, or tremble lest a pantomime lady should throw up her part.
But he cannot help the existence in the background of his consciousness
of a self which watches, and, perhaps, is a little ashamed of his
'sensations.' Even the rapidly growing psychological complexity of
modern novels and plays helps to complicate the relation of the
men of our time to their emotional impulses. The young tradesman
who has been reading either _Evan Harrington_, or a novel by some
writer who has read _Evan Harrington_, goes to shake hands with
a countess at an entertainment given by the Primrose League, or the
Liberal Social Council, conscious of pleasure, but to some degree
critical of his pleasure.

His father, who read _John Halifax, Gentleman_, would have been
carried away by a tenth part of the condescension which is necessary
in the case of the son. A voter who has seen _John Bull's
Other Island_ at the theatre, is more likely than his father, who
only saw _The Shaughraun_, to realise that one's feelings on the
Irish question can be thought about as well as felt.

In so far as this change extends, the politician may find in the future
that an increasing proportion of his constituents half-consciously
'see through' the cruder arts of emotional exploitation.

But such an unconscious or half-conscious extension of self-knowledge
is not likely of itself to keep pace with the parallel development
of the political art of controlling impulse. The tendency, if
it is to be effective, must be strengthened by the deliberate adoption
and inculcation of new moral and intellectual conceptions--new
ideal entities to which our affections and desires may attach
themselves.

'Science' has been such an entity ever since Francis Bacon found
again, without knowing it, the path of Aristotle's best thought.
The conception of 'Science,' of scientific method and the scientific
spirit, was built up in successive generations by a few students.
At first their conception was confined to themselves. Its effects
were seen in the discoveries which they actually made; but to the
mass of mankind they seemed little better than magicians. Now it
has spread to the whole world.

In every class-room and laboratory in Europe and America the
conscious idea of Science forms the minds and wills of thousands
of men and women who could never have helped to create it. It has
penetrated, as the political conceptions of Liberty or of Natural
Right never penetrated, to non-European races. Arab engineers
in Khartoum, doctors and nurses and generals in the Japanese army,
Hindoo and Chinese students make of their whole lives an intense
activity inspired by absolute submission to Science, and not only
English or American or German town working men, but villagers in
Italy or Argentina are learning to respect the authority and
sympathise with the methods of that organised study which may double
at any moment the produce of their crops or check a plague among
their cattle.

'Science,' however, is associated by most men, even in Europe,
only with things exterior to themselves, things that can be examined
by test-tubes and microscopes. They are dimly aware that there
exists a science of the mind, but that knowledge suggests to them,
as yet, no ideal of conduct.

It is true that in America, where politicians have learnt more
successfully than elsewhere the art of controlling other men's
unconscious impulses from without, there have been of late some
noteworthy declarations as to the need of conscious control from
within.

Some of those especially who have been trained in scientific
method at the American Universities are now attempting to extend to
politics the scientific conception of intellectual conduct. But
it seems to me that much of their preaching misses its mark,
because it takes the old form of an opposition between 'reason'
and 'passion.' The President of the University of Yale said, for
instance, the other day in a powerful address, 'Every man who
publishes a newspaper which appeals to the emotions rather than
to the intelligence of its readers ... attacks our political life
at a most vulnerable point

.'[60] If forty years ago Huxley had in this way merely preached
'intelligence' as against 'emotion' in the exploration of nature,
few would have listened to him.
Men will not take up the 'intolerable disease of thought' unless their
feelings are first stirred, and the strength of the idea of
Science has been that it does touch men's feelings, and draws motive
power for thought from the passions of reverence, of curiosity, and
of limitless hope.

[60] A. T. Hadley in _Munsey's Magazine_, 1907.

The President of Yale seems to imply that in order to reason men
must become passionless. He would have done better to have gone
back to that section of the Republic where Plato teaches that the
supreme purpose of the State realises itself in men's hearts by a
'harmony' which strengthens the motive force of passion, because
the separate passions no longer war among themselves, but are
concentrated on an end discovered by the intellect.[61] 
[61] Cf.

Plato's _Republic_, Book IV.

In politics, indeed, the preaching of reason as opposed to feeling
is peculiarly ineffective, because the feelings of mankind not only
provide a motive for political thought but also fix the scale of values
which must be used in political judgment. One finds oneself when
trying to realise this, falling back (perhaps because one gets so
little help from current language) upon Plato's favourite metaphor
of the arts.

In music the noble and the base composer are not divided by the
fact that the one appeals to the intellect and the other to the
feelings of his hearers.
Both must make their appeal to feeling, and both must therefore
realise intensely the feelings of their audience, and stimulate
intensely their own feelings. The conditions under which they
succeed or fail are fixed, for both, by facts in our emotional
nature which they cannot change.
One, however, appeals by easy tricks to part only of the nature of
his hearers, while the other appeals to their whole nature, requiring
of those who would follow him that for the time their intellect
should sit enthroned among the strengthened and purified passions.

But what, besides mere preaching, can be done to spread the conception
of such a harmony of reason and passion, of thought and impulse,
in political motive?

One thinks of education, and particularly of scientific education.

But the imaginative range which is necessary if students are to
transfer the conception of intellectual conduct from the laboratory
to the public meeting is not common.

It would perhaps more often exist if part of all scientific education
were given to such a study of the lives of scientific men as would
reveal their mental history as well as their discoveries, if, for
instance, the young biologist were set to read the correspondence
between Darwin and Lyell, when Lyell was preparing to abandon the
conclusions on which his great reputation was based, and suspending
his deepest religious convictions, in the cause of a truth not yet
made clear.

But most school children, if they are to learn the facts on
which the conception of intellectual conduct depends, must learn
them even more directly.

I myself believe that a very simple course on the well-ascertained
facts of psychology would, if patiently taught, be quite intelligible
to any children of thirteen or fourteen who had received some small
preliminary training in scientific method.

Mr.
William James's chapter on Habit in his _Principles of Psychology_
would, for instance, if the language were somewhat simplified, come
well within their range.

A town child, again, lives nowadays in the constant presence of the
psychological art of advertisement, and could easily be made to
understand the reason why, when he is sent to get a bar of soap,
he feels inclined to get that which is most widely advertised,
and what relation his inclination has to that mental process which
is most likely to result in the buying of good soap. The basis
of knowledge necessary for the conception of intellectual duty
could further be enlarged at school by the study in pure literature
of the deeper experiences of the mind.

A child of twelve might understand Carlyle's _Essay on Burns_ if
it were carefully read in class, and a good sixth form might learn
much from Wordsworth's _Prelude_.

The whole question, however, of such deliberate instruction in the
emotional and intellectual facts of man's nature as may lead men
to conceive of the co-ordination of reason and passion as a moral
ideal is one on which much steady thinking and observation is still
required.

The instincts of sex, for instance, are becoming in all civilised
countries more and more the subject of serious thought.

Conduct based upon a calculation of results is in that sphere
claiming to an ever increasing degree control over mere impulse.
Yet no one is sure that he has found the way to teach the barest
facts as to sexual instinct either before or during the period of
puberty, without prematurely exciting the instincts themselves.

Doctors, again, are more and more recognising that nutrition depends
not only upon the chemical composition of food but upon our appetite,
and that we can become aware of our appetite and to some extent
control and direct it by our will.

Sir William Macewen said not long ago, 'We cannot properly
digest our food unless we give it a warm welcome from a free mind
with the prospect of enjoyment

.'[62] But it would not be easy to create by teaching that co-ordination
of the intellect and impulse at which Sir William Macewen hints.

If you tell a boy that one reason why food is wholesome is because
we like it, and that it is therefore our duty to like that food
which other facts of our nature have made both wholesome and likeable,
you may find yourself stimulating nothing except his sense of humour

.

[62] _British Medical Journal_, Oct. 8, 1904.

So, in the case of the political emotions, it is very easy to say
that the teacher should aim first at making his pupils conscious of
the existence of those emotions, then at increasing their force, and
finally at subordinating them to the control of deliberate reasoning
on the consequences of political action.

But it is extraordinarily difficult to discover how this can be done
under the actual conditions of school teaching. Mr. Acland, when
he was Education Minister in 1893, introduced into the Evening
School Code a syllabus of instruction on the Life and Duties of
the Citizen. It consisted of statements of the part played in
social life by the rate-collector, the policeman, and so on,
accompanied by a moral for each section, such as 'serving personal
interest is not enough,' 'need of public spirit and intelligence
for good Government,' 'need of honesty in giving a vote,' 'the vote
a trust as well as a right.'

Almost every school publisher rushed out a text-book on the
subject, and many School Boards encouraged its introduction; and
yet the experiment, after a careful trial, was an acknowledged
failure. The new text-books (all of which I had at the time to
review), constituted perhaps the most worthless collection of printed
pages that have ever occupied the same space on a bookshelf, and
the lessons, with their alternations of instruction and
edification, failed to stimulate any kind of interest in the
students. If our youths and maidens are to be stirred as deeply
by the conception of the State as were the pupils of Socrates,
teachers and the writers of text-books must apparently approach
their task with something of Socrates' passionate love of truth and
of the searching courage of his dialectic.

If again, at an earlier age, children still in school are to be
taught what Mr. Wells calls 'the sense of the State,'[63] we
may, by remembering Athens, get some indication of the conditions
on which success depends.
Children will not learn to love London while getting figures by
heart as to the millions of her inhabitants and the miles of her
sewers.

If their love is to be roused by words, the words must be as beautiful
and as simple as the chorus in praise of Athens in the _Oedipus
Coloneus_. But such words are not written except by great poets
who actually feel what they write, and perhaps before we have a
poet who loves London as Sophocles loved Athens it may be
necessary to make London itself somewhat more lovely.

[63] _The future in America_, chapter ix.

The emotions of children are, however, most easily reached not by
words but by sights and sounds.

If therefore, they are to love the State, they should either be taken
to see the noblest aspects of the State or those aspects should
be brought to them. And a public building or ceremony, if it is to
impress the unflinching eyes of childhood, must, like the
buildings of Ypres or Bruges or the ceremonies of Japan, be in truth
impressive.
But doan't ee marry in Varley, Polly. My
Luke's been a good husband to me. But thou know'st what the most of
them be--they may do for Varley bred gals, but not for the like
of thee. And when thou goest take baby wi' thee and bring her up
like thysel till she be old enough to coom back and look arter Luke
and the house."

Polly was crying quietly while the dying woman was speaking. The
doctor, on leaving that morning, had told her that he could do no
more and that Mrs. Marner was sinking rapidly. Kneeling now beside
the bed she promised to do all that her adopted mother asked her,
adding, "and I shall never, never leave feyther as long as he
lives."

The woman smiled faintly.

"Many a girl ha' said that afore now, Polly, and ha' changed her
moind when the roight man asked her. Don't ee make any promises
that away, lass. 'Tis natural that, when a lassie's time comes,
she should wed; and if Luke feels loanly here, why he's got it in
his power to get another to keep house for him. He be but a little
over forty now; and as he ha' lived steady and kept hisself away
from drink, he be a yoonger man now nor many a one ten year yoonger.
Don't ye think to go to sacrifice your loife to hissen. And now,
child, read me that chapter over agin, and then I think I could
sleep a bit."

Before morning Eliza Marner had passed away, and Polly became the
head of her uncle's house. Two years had passed, and so far Mary
Powlett showed no signs of leaving the house, which, even the many
women in the village, who envied her for her prettiness and neatness
and disliked her for what they called her airs, acknowledged that
she managed well. But it was not from lack of suitors. There were
at least half a dozen stalwart young croppers who would gladly have
paid court to her had there been the smallest sign on her part of
willingness to accept their attentions; but Polly, though bright
and cheerful and pleasant to all, afforded to none of them an
opportunity for anything approaching intimacy.

On Sundays, the times alone when their occupations enabled the
youth of Varley to devote themselves to attentions to the maidens
they favored, Mary Powlett was not to be found at home after
breakfast, for, having set everything in readiness for dinner,
she always started for Marsden, taking little Susan with her, and
there spent the day with the woman who had even more than Eliza
Marner been her mother. She had, a month after his wife's death,
fought a battle with Luke and conquered. The latter had, in pursuance
of the plans he had originally drawn up for her, proposed that she
should go into service at Marsden.

"Oi shall miss thee sorely, Polly," he said; "and oi doan't disguise
it from thee, vor the last year, lass, thou hast been the light o'
this house, and oi couldna have spared ye. But oi ha' always fixed
that thou shouldst go into service at Marsden--Varley is not fit
vor the likes o' ye. We be a rough lot here, and a drunken; and
though oi shall miss thee sorely for awhile, oi must larn to do
wi'out thee."

Polly heard him in silence, and then positively refused to go.

"You have been all to me, feyther, since I was a child, and I am
not going to leave you now. I don't say that Varley is altogether
nice, but I shall be very happy here with you and the boys and dear
little Susan, and I am not going to leave, and so--there!"

Luke knew well how great would be the void which her absence would
make, but he still struggled to carry out his plans.

"But, Polly, oi should na loike to see thee marry here, and thy
mother would never ha' loiked it, and thou wilt no chance of seeing
other men here."

"Why, I am only sixteen, feyther, and we need not talk of my
marriage for years and years yet, and I promise you I shan't think
of marrying in Varley when the time comes; but there is one thing
I should like, and that is to spend Sundays, say once a fortnight,
down with Mrs. Mason; they were so quiet and still there, and I did
like so much going to the church; and I hate that Little Bethel,
especially since that horrible man came there; he is a disgrace,
feyther, and you will see that mischief will come out of his talk."

"Oi don't like him myself, Polly, and maybe me and the boys will
sometoimes come down to the church thou art so fond of. However, if
thou wilt agree to go down every Sunday to Mrs. Mason, thou shalt
stay here for a bit till oi see what can best be done."

And so it was settled, and Polly went off every Sunday morning,
and Luke went down of an evening to fetch her back.

"Well, what is't, lass?" he asked as he joined her outside the
"Brown Cow."

"George has scalded his leg badly, feyther. I was just putting Susan
to bed, and he took the kettle off the fire to pour some water in
the teapot, when Dick pushed him, or something, and the boiling
water went over his leg."

"Oi'll give that Dick a hiding," Luke said wrathfully as he hastened
along by her side. "Why didn't ye send him here to tell me instead
of cooming thyself?"

"It was only an accident, feyther, and Dick was so frightened when
he saw what had happened and heard George cry out that he ran out
at once. I have put some flour on George's leg; but I think the
doctor ought to see him, that's why I came for you."

"It's no use moi goaing voor him now, lass, he be expected along
here every minute. Jack Wilson, he be on the lookout by the roadside
vor to stop him to ask him to see Nance, who be taken main bad. I
will see him and ask him to send doctor to oor house when he comes,
and tell Jarge I will be oop in a minute."

Upon the doctor's arrival he pronounced the scald to be a serious
one, and Dick, who had been found sobbing outside the cottage, and
had been cuffed by his father, was sent down with the doctor into
the town to bring up some lint to envelop the leg. The doctor had
already paid his visit to Nance Wilson, and had rated her father
soundly for not procuring better food for her.

"It's all nonsense your saying the times are bad," he said in
reply to the man's excuses. "I know the times are bad; but you know
as well as I do that half your wages go to the public house; your
family are starving while you are squandering money in drink. That
child is sinking from pure want of food, and I doubt if she would
not be gone now if it hadn't have been for that soup your wife
tells me Bill Swinton sent in to her. I tell you, if she dies you
will be as much her murderer as if you had chopped her down with
a hatchet."

The plain speaking of the doctor was the terror of his parish
patients, who nevertheless respected him for the honest truths he
told them. He himself used to say that his plain speaking saved him
a world of trouble, for that his patients took good care never to
send for him except when he was really wanted.

The next day Mary Powlett was unable to go off as usual to Marsden
as George was in great pain from his scald. She went down to church,
however, in the evening with her father, Bill Swinton taking her
place by the bedside of the boy.

"Thou hast been a-sitting by moi bedside hours every day, Polly,"
he said, "and it's moi turn now to take thy place here. Jack ha'
brought over all moi books, for oi couldn't make shift to carry
them and use moi crutches, and oi'll explain all the pictures to
Jarge jest as Maister Ned explained 'em to oi."

The sight of the pictures reconciled George to Polly's departure,
and seeing the lad was amused and comfortable, she started with
Luke, Dick taking his place near the bed, where he could also enjoy
a look at the pictures.

"Did you notice that pretty girl with the sweet voice in the aisle
in a line with us, father," Ned asked that evening, "with a great,
strong, quiet looking man by the side of her?"

"Yes, lad, the sweetness of her singing attracted my attention,
and I thought what a bright, pretty face it was!"

"That's Mary Powlett and her uncle. You have heard me speak of her
as the girl who was so kind in nursing Bill."

"Indeed, Ned! I should scarcely have expected to find so quiet and
tidy looking a girl at Varley, still less to meet her with a male
relation in church."

"She lives at Varley, but she can hardly be called a Varley girl,"
Ned said. "Bill was telling me about her. Her uncle had her brought
up down here. She used to go back to sleep at night, but otherwise
all her time was spent here. It seems her mother never liked the
place, and married away from it, and when she and her husband died
and the child came back to live with her uncle he seemed to think
he would be best carrying out his dead sister's wishes by having her
brought up in a different way to the girls at Varley. He has lost
his wife now, and she keeps house for him, and Bill says all the
young men in Varley are mad about her, but she won't have anything
to say to them."

"She is right enough there," Captain Sankey said smilingly. "They
are mostly croppers, and rightly or wrongly--rightly, I am
afraid--they have the reputation of being the most drunken and
quarrelsome lot in Yorkshire. Do you know the story that is current
among the country people here about them?"

"No, father, what is it?"

"Well, they say that no cropper is in the place of punishment.
It was crowded with them at one time, but they were so noisy and
troublesome that his infernal majesty was driven to his wits' end
by their disputes. He offered to let them all go. They refused.
So one day he struck upon a plan to get rid of them. Going outside
the gates he shouted at the top of his voice, 'Beer, beer, who wants
beer?' every cropper in the place rushed out, and he then slipped
in again and shut the gates, and has taken good care ever since
never to admit a cropper into his territory."

Ned laughed at the story.

"It shows at any rate, father, what people think of them here; but
I don't think they are as bad as that, though Bill did say that
there are awful fights and rows going on there of an evening, and
even down here if there is a row there is sure to be a cropper in
it. Still you see there are some good ones; look at Luke Marner,
that's the man we saw in church, see how kind he has been to his
niece."

"There are good men of all sorts, and though the croppers may be
rough and given to drink, we must not blame them too severely; they
are wholly uneducated men, they work hard, and their sole pleasure
is in the beer shop. At bottom they are no doubt the same as the
rest of their countrymen, and the Yorkshire men, though a hard
headed, are a soft hearted race; the doctor tells me that except
that their constitutions are ruined by habitual drinking he has
no better patients; they bear pain unflinchingly, and are patient
and even tempered. I know he loves them with all their faults, and
I consider him to be a good judge of character."


CHAPTER IV: THE WORMS TURN


"I say, it's a shame, a beastly shame!" Ned Sankey exclaimed
passionately as the boys came out from school one day.

Generally they poured out in a confused mass, eager for the fresh
air and anxious to forget in play the remembrance of the painful
hours in school; but today they came out slowly and quietly, each
with a book in his hand, for they had tasks set them which would
occupy every moment till the bell sounded again.

"Every one says they know nothing about the cat. I don't know whether
it's true or not, for I am sorry to say some of the fellows will
tell lies to escape the cane, but whether it is so or not he's no
right to punish us all for what can only be the fault of one or
two."

That morning the cat, which was the pet of Mr. Hathorn and his wife,
had been found dead near the door of the schoolhouse. It had been
most brutally knocked about. One of its eyes had been destroyed,
its soft fur was matted with blood, and it had evidently been beaten
to death. That the cat was no favorite with the boys was certain.
The door between the schoolroom and the house was unfastened at
night, and the cat in her pursuit of mice not unfrequently knocked
over inkstands, and the ink, penetrating into the desks, stained
books and papers, and more than one boy had been caned severely
for damage due to the night prowlings of the cat.

Threats of vengeance against her had often been uttered, and when
the cat was found dead it was the general opinion in the school
that one or other of their comrades had carried out his threats,
but no suspicion fell upon any one in particular. The boys who
were most likely to have done such a thing declared their innocence
stoutly.

Mr. Hathorn had no doubt on the subject. The cane had been going
all the morning, and he had told them that extra tasks would be
given which would occupy all their playtime until the offender was
given up to judgment.

In point of fact the boys were altogether innocent of the deed.
Pussy was a noted marauder, and having been caught the evening before
in a larder, from which she had more than once stolen titbits, she
had been attacked by an enraged cook with a broomstick, and blows
had been showered upon her until the woman, believing that life
was extinct, had thrown her outside into the road; but the cat was
not quite dead, and had, after a time, revived sufficiently to drag
her way home, only, however, to die.

"I call it a shame!" Ned repeated. "Mind, I say it's a brutal thing
to ill treat a cat like that. If she did knock down inkstands and
get fellows into rows it was not her fault. It's natural cats should
run after mice, and the wainscoting of the schoolroom swarmed with
them. One can hear them chasing each other about and squeaking all
day. If I knew any of the fellows had killed the cat I should go
straight to Hathorn and tell him.

"You might call it sneaking if you like, but I would do it, for I
hate such brutal cruelty. I don't see how it could have been any
of the fellows, for they would have had to get out of the bedroom
and into it again; besides, I don't see how they could have caught
the cat if they did get out; but whether it was one of the fellows
or not makes no difference. I say it's injustice to punish every
one for the fault of one or two fellows.

"I suppose he thinks that in time we shall give up the names of
the fellows who did it. As far as I am concerned, it will be just
the other way. If I had known who had done it this morning, when
he accused us, I should have got up and said so, because I think
fellows who treat dumb animals like that are brutes that ought to
be punished, but I certainly would not sneak because Hathorn punished
me unjustly. I vote we all refuse to do the work he has set us."

This bold proposition was received with blank astonishment.

"But he would thrash us all fearfully," Tompkins said.

"He daren't if we only stuck together. Why, he wouldn't have a
chance with us if we showed fight. If we were to say to him, 'We
won't do these extra tasks; and if you touch one of us the whole
lot will pitch into you,' what could he do then?"

"I will tell you what he could do, Sankey," Tom Room, a quiet,
sensible boy, replied. "If we were in a desert island it would be
all well enough, he could not tyrannize over us then: but here it
is different. He would just put on his hat and go into the town,
and in ten minutes he would he back again with the six constables,
and if that wasn't enough he could get plenty of other men, and where
would our fighting be then? We should all get the most tremendous
licking we have ever had, and get laughed at besides through the
town for a pack of young fools."

Ned broke into a good tempered laugh.

"Of course you are right, Room. I only thought about Hathorn
himself. Still, it is horribly unfair. I will do it today. But if
he goes on with it, as he threatens, I won't do it, let him do what
he likes."

For some days this state of things continued. There was no longer
any sound of shouting and laughter in the playground. The boys walked
about moody and sullen, working at their lessons. They were fast
becoming desperate. No clue had been obtained as to the destroyer
of the cat, and the schoolmaster declared that if it took him months
to break their spirits he would do it.

Ned Sankey had said nothing at home as to his troubles. His father
noticed that he ran off again as soon as his dinner was over, and
that he no longer said anything as to the sports in which he was
engaged in playtime; also, that his lessons occupied him from tea
time until he went up to bed.

"Anything is better than this," Ned said one day to some of the
boys of his own age. "In my opinion it's better to have a regular
row. What Room said was quite true; we shall get the worst of it;
but the story will then come out, and it will be seen what a beastly
tyranny we have been undergoing. I tell you, I for one will not
stand it any longer, so here goes," and he threw his book up into
a tree, in whose branches it securely lodged.

His comrades followed his example, and the news that Sankey and some
of the other fellows were determined to put up with it no longer
soon spread, and in five minutes not a book was to be seen in the
playground. The spirit of resistance became strong and general,
and when the bell rang the boys walked into the schoolroom silent
and determined, but looking far less moody and downcast than usual.
Mr. Hathorn took his seat at his desk.

"The first class will come up and say their tasks."

Not a boy moved in his seat.

"The first class will come up and say their tasks," the master
repeated, bringing his cane down with angry emphasis on the desk.

Still no one moved.

"What does this mean?" he shouted, rising from his seat.

"It means, sir," Ned Sankey said, rising also, "that we are
determined, all of us, that we will learn no more extra tasks.
None of us, so far as we know, ever touched your cat, and we are
not going to submit to be punished any longer for a fault which
none of us have committed."

"No, no," rose in a general chorus through the schoolroom, "we will
do no more tasks."

Mr. Hathorn stood petrified with astonishment and white with anger.

"So you are at the bottom of this, Sankey. I will make an example
of you."

So saying, he took a stride forward toward Ned. In an instant a
shower of books flew at him from all parts of the room. Infuriated
by the attack, he rushed forward with his cane raised. Ned caught
up a heavy inkstand.

"If you touch me," he shouted, "I will fling this at your head."

Mr. Hathorn hesitated. The shower of books had not affected him,
but the heavy missile in Ned's hand was a serious weapon. In another
moment he sprang forward and brought his cane down with all his
force upon Ned's back.

Ned at once hurled the heavy inkstand at him. The schoolmaster sprang
on one side, but it struck him on the shoulder, and he staggered
back.

"You have broken my shoulder, you young scoundrel!" he exclaimed.

"I shouldn't care if I had broken your head," Ned retorted, white
with passion; "it would have served you right if I had killed you,
you tyrant."

"One of you go and fetch a constable," Mr. Hathorn said to the
boys.

"Let him send his servant. He will find me at home. Mr. Hathorn, I
am not going to run away, you need not think it. Give me in charge
if you dare; I don't care what they do to me, but the whole country
shall know what a tyrant you are."

So saying, he collected his books, put his cap on his head, and
walked from the schoolroom, the boys cheering him loudly as he
went. On reaching home he went at once to his father's study.

"I am sorry to say, sir, that there has been a row in the school,
and Hathorn has threatened to send a constable here after me for
throwing an inkstand at him."

"Throwing an inkstand!" Captain Sankey exclaimed. "Is it possible?"

"It is quite possible and quite true; he has been treating us
shamefully for the last ten days; he has been always a cruel brute
all along, though I never wanted to make a fuss about it, but it
has been getting worse and worse. Ten days ago some one killed his
cat, and I am almost sure it was none of the boys, but he chose
to believe it was, and because he couldn't find out who, he has
punished the whole school, and all our play hours have been taken
up with lessons ever since, and he said he would keep on so till
he found out who did it, if it was months.

"So at last we could not stand it any longer, and we all agreed that
we wouldn't do the extra tasks, and that we would stick together
when we told him so. He rushed at me with his cane, and gave me one
with all his might, and I threw an inkstand at him, and it caught
him on the shoulder, and he says it has broken it, and that he would
send for a constable. So I told him to do so if he dared, and here
I am."

"This is a very serious business, Ned," his father said gravely.
"In the first place, there is something like a rebellion in the
school, of which, I suppose, you were one of the leaders or he would
not have singled you out. In the second place, you threw a missile
at him, which has broken his shoulder, and might have killed him
had it struck him on the head. I have warned you, my boy, over and
over again against giving way to that passionate temper of yours,
and have told you that it would lead you into serious trouble."

"I can't help it, sir," Ned said doggedly. "I've put up with
a tremendous lot there, and have said nothing about it, because
I did not wish to give you trouble; but when it came to downright
tyranny like this I would rather be killed than put up with it. I
warned him fairly that if he struck me I would throw the inkstand
at him, and he brought it on himself."

Captain Sankey seeing that in his son's present state of mind talking
would be useless to him, ordered him to remain in his study till
his return, and putting on his hat went toward the school. Ned's
temper had always been a source of anxiety to him. The boy was, no
doubt, of a passionate nature, but had he had the advantage of a
proper supervision and care when he was a child the tendency might
have been overcome. Unfortunately this had not been the case. His
mother had left the children entirely to the care of ayahs, he
himself had been far too occupied with his regimental duties to be
able to superintend their training, while Abijah's hands had been
too full with the management of the house, which entirely devolved
upon her, and with the constant attention demanded by Mrs. Sankey,
to give them any close superintendence. Thus like most children
born in India and left entirely in the charge of colored nurses,
Ned had acquired the habit of giving way to bursts of ungovernable
passion; for the black nurses have no authority over their young
charges, unless seconded and supported by the firmness of their
mothers. In this case no such support had been forthcoming.

Mrs. Sankey hated being troubled, and the ayahs always found that
any complaints to her recoiled upon themselves, for she always
took the part of her children, and insisted that the fault lay on
the side of the nurses and not on them. The natural result was,
that the ayahs ceased to trouble her, and found it easier to allow
the children to do as they chose, and to give way quietly to Ned's
outbursts of passion.

Captain Sankey knew nothing of all this. Ned was very fond of him,
and was always bright and good tempered when with his father, and
it was not until he left India and was thrown more with him that
Captain Sankey discovered how grievously Ned's disposition, which
was in other respects a fine one, was marred by the habit which had
been encouraged by indulgence and want of control. Then he set to
work earnestly to remedy the mischief, but the growth of years is
hard to eradicate, and although under the influence of the affection
for his father and his own good sense Ned had so far conquered himself
that his fits of passion were few and far between, the evil still
existed, and might yet, as his father felt, lead to consequences
which would mar his whole life.

Thinking the matter sadly over, Captain Sankey was proceeding toward
the school when he met one of the constables. The man touched his
hat and stopped.

"This be a moighty oonpleasant business, captain," he said; "your
boy, he ha' been and battered schoolmaister; and t' doctor says he
ha' broke his collarbone. Oi ha' got to take him afore t' magistrate."

"Very well, Harper," Captain Sankey said quietly; "of course you
must do your duty. It is a sad business, and I was on my way to
the school to see if the matter could not be arranged; however, as
it has been put in your hands it is now too late, and things must
take their course; the magistrates are not sitting today. I will
guarantee that my son shall be present at the sitting on Thursday,
I suppose that will be sufficient?"

"Yes, oi supposes if you promises to produce him, that will do,"
the constable said. "Oi doan't suppose as nought will come o't;
these schoolmaister chaps does thrash t' boys cruel, and oi ain't
surprised as t' little chaps roises ag'in it soometoimes. T'others
all seem moighty glad o' it: oi heard 'em shouting and, cheering
in t' yard as if they was all mad."

Captain Sankey shook his head. "I'm afraid the magistrates won't
see it in that light, Harper; discipline is discipline. However,
we must hope for the best."

The story that there had been a rebellion among the boys at Hathorn's,
that the schoolmaster had his shoulder broken, and that Captain
Sankey's son was to go before the magistrates, spread rapidly
through Marsden, and the courthouse was crowded at the sitting of
the magistrates on Thursday.

There were two magistrates on the bench. Mr. Thompson the local
banker, and Squire Simmonds of Lathorpe Hall, three miles from the
town. Several minor cases were first disposed of, and then Ned's name
was called. Captain Sankey had been accommodated with a seat near
the magistrates, with both of whom he had some personal acquaintance.
Ned was sitting by the side of the lawyer whom his father had
retained to defend him; he now moved quietly into the dock, while
Mr. Hathorn, with his arm in a sling, took his place in the witness
box.

Ned had recovered now from his fit of passion, and looked amused
rather than concerned as the schoolmaster gave his evidence as to
the fray in the schoolroom.

"I have a few questions to ask you, Mr. Hathorn," Mr. Wakefield,
Ned's lawyer, said. "Had you any reason for expecting any outbreak
of this kind among your boys?"

"None whatever," Mr. Hathorn said.

"You use the cane pretty freely, I believe, sir."

"I use it when it is necessary," Mr. Hathorn replied.

"Ah, and how often do you consider it necessary?"

"That must depend upon circumstances."

"You have about thirty boys, I think?"

"About thirty."

"And you consider it necessary that at least fifteen out of that
thirty should be caned every day. You must have got a very bad lot
of boys, Mr. Hathorn?"

"Not so many as that," the schoolmaster said, flushing.

"I shall be prepared to prove to your worships," the lawyer said,
"that for the last six months the average of boys severely caned
by this man has exceeded sixteen a day, putting aside such minor
matters as one, two, or three vicious cuts with the cane given at
random. It fortunately happened, as I find from my young friend
in the dock, that one of the boys has, from motives of curiosity,
kept an account for the last six months of the number of boys
thrashed every day. I have sent round for him, and he is at present
in court."

Mr. Hathorn turned pale, and he began to think that it would have
been wiser for him to have followed Ned's advice, and not to have
brought the matter into court.

"Your worships," the lawyer said, "you have been boys, as I have,
and you can form your own ideas as to the wretchedness that must
prevail among a body of lads of whom more than half are caned daily.
This, your worships, is a state of tyranny which might well drive
any boys to desperation. But I have not done with Mr. Hathorn yet.

"During the ten days previous to this affair things wore even more
unpleasant than usual in your establishment, were they not, sir?
I understand that the whole of the boys were deprived of all play
whatever, and that every minute was occupied by extra tasks, and
moreover the prospect was held out to them that this sort of thing
would continue for months."

There had already been several demonstrations of feeling in court,
but at this statement by the lawyer there was a general hiss. The
schoolmaster hesitated before replying.

"Now, Mr. Hathorn," the lawyer said briskly, "we want neither hesitation
nor equivocation. We may as well have it from you, because if you
don't like telling the truth I can put the thirty miserable lads
under your charge into the box one after the other."

"They have had extra tasks to do during their play time," Mr. Hathorn
said, "because they refused to reveal which among them brutally
murdered my cat."

"And how do you know they murdered your cat?"

"I am sure they did," the schoolmaster said shortly.

"Oh! you are sure they did! And why are you so sure? Had they any
grudge against your cat?"

"They pretended they had a grudge."

"What for, Mr. Hathorn?"

"They used to accuse her of upsetting the ink bottles when they
did it themselves."

"You did not believe their statements, I suppose?"

"Not at all."

"You caned them just the same as if they had done it themselves.
At least I am told so."

"Of course I caned them, especially as I knew that they were telling
a lie."

"But if it was a lie, Mr. Hathorn, if this cat did not upset their
ink, why on earth should these boys have a grudge against her and
murder her?"

The schoolmaster was silent.

"Now I want an answer, sir. You are punishing thirty boys in
addition to the sixteen daily canings divided among them; you have
cut off all their play time, and kept them at work from the time
they rise to the time they go to bed. As you see, according to your
own statement, they could have had no grudge against the cat, how
are you sure they murdered her?"

"I am quite sure." Mr. Hathorn said doggedly. "Boys have always a
spite against cats."

"Now, your honors, you hear this," Mr. Wakefield said. "Now I am
about to place in the witness box a very respectable woman, one Jane
Tytler, who is cook to our esteemed fellow townsman, Mr. Samuel
Hawkins, whose residence is, as you know, not far from this school.
She will tell you that, having for some time been plagued by a
thieving cat which was in the habit of getting into her larder and
carrying off portions of food, she, finding it one day there in
the act of stealing a half chicken, fell upon it with a broomstick
and killed it, or as she thought killed it, and I imagine most
cooks would have acted the same under the circumstances.

"She thought no more about it until she heard the reports in
the town about this business at the school, and then she told her
master. The dates have been compared, and it is found that she
battered this cat on the evening before the Hathorn cat was found
dead in the yard. Furthermore, the cat she battered was a white cat
with a black spot on one side, and this is the exact description
of the Hathorn cat; therefore, your honors, you will see that the
assumption, or pretense, or excuse, call it what you will, by which
this man justifies his tyrannical treatment of these unfortunate
boys has no base or foundation whatever. You can go now, Mr. Hathorn;
I have nothing further to say to you."

A loud hiss rose again from the crowded court as the schoolmaster
stepped down from the witness box, and Jane Tytler took his place.
After giving her evidence she was succeeded by Dick Tompkins in
much trepidation. Dick was a most unwilling witness, but he produced
the notebook in which he had daily jotted down the number of boys
caned, and swore to the general accuracy of the figures.

Mr. Wakefield then asked the magistrates if they would like to hear
any further witnesses as to the state of things in the schoolroom.
They said that what they had heard was quite sufficient. He then
addressed them on the merits of the case, pointing out that although
in this case one of the parties was a master and the other a pupil
this in no way removed it in the eye of the law from the category
of other assaults.

"In this case," he said, "your worships, the affair has arisen out
of a long course of tyranny and provocation on the part of one of
the parties, and you will observe that this is the party who first
commits the assault, while my client was acting solely in self
defense.

"It is he who ought to stand in the witness box; and the complainant
in the dock, for he is at once the aggressor and the assailant. The
law admits any man who is assaulted to defend himself, and there
is, so far as I am aware, no enactment whatever to be found in
the statute book placing boys in a different category to grownup
persons. When your worships have discharged my client, as I have
no doubt you will do at once, I shall advise him to apply for a
summons for assault against this man Hathorn."

The magistrates consulted together for some time, then the squire,
who was the senior, said:

"We are of opinion that Master Sankey, by aiding this rebellion
against his master, has done wrongly, and that he erred grievously
in discharging a heavy missile at his master; at the same time we
think that the provocation that he received by the tyranny which
has been proved to have been exercised by Mr. Hathorn toward the
boys under his charge, and especially by their unjust punishment
for an offense which the complainant conceived without sufficient
warrant, or indeed without any warrant at all, that they had
committed, to a great extent justifies and excuses the conduct of
Master Sankey. Therefore, with a reprimand as to his behavior, and
a caution as to the consequences which might have arisen from his
allowing his temper to go beyond bounds, we discharge him.

"As to you, sir," he said to the schoolmaster, "we wish to express
our opinion that your conduct has been cruel and tyrannical in the
extreme, and we pity the unfortunate boys who are under the care of
a man who treats them with such cruel harshness as you are proved
to have done."

The magistrates now rose, and the court broke up. Many of those
present crowded round Ned and shook his hand, congratulating him
on the issue; but at a sign from his father the boy drew himself
away from them, and joining Captain Sankey, walked home with him.

"The matter has ended better than I expected, Ned," he said gravely;
"but pray, my boy, do not let yourself think that there is any
reason for triumph. You have been gravely reprimanded, and had the
missile you used struck the schoolmaster on the head, you would
now be in prison awaiting your trial for a far graver offense, and
that before judges who would not make the allowances for you that
the magistrates here have done.

"Beware of your temper, Ned, for unless you overcome it, be assured
that sooner or later it may lead to terrible consequences."

Ned, who had in fact been inclined to feel triumphant over his
success, was sobered by his father's grave words and manner; and
resolved that he would try hard to conquer his fault; but evil
habits are hard to overcome, and the full force of his father's
words was still to come home to him.

He did not, of course, return to Mr. Hathorn's, and indeed the
disclosures of the master's severity made at the examination before
the magistrates obtained such publicity that several of his pupils
were removed at once, and notices were given that so many more
would not return after the next holidays that no one was surprised
to hear that the schoolmaster had arranged with a successor in the
school, and that he himself was about to go to America.

The result was that after the holidays his successor took his
place, and many of the fathers who had intended to remove their
sons decided to give the newcomer a trial. The school opened with
nearly the usual number of pupils. Ned was one of those who went
back. Captain Sankey had called on the new master, and had told him
frankly the circumstances of the fracas between Ned and Mr. Hathorn.

"I will try your son at any rate, Mr. Sankey," the master said. "I
have a strong opinion that boys can be managed without such use of
the cane as is generally adopted; that, in my opinion, should be
the last resort. Boys are like other people, and will do more for
kindness than for blows. By what you tell me, the circumstances of
your son's bringing up in India among native servants have encouraged
the growth of a passionate temper, but I trust that we may be able
to overcome that; at any rate I will give him a trial."

And so it was settled that Ned should return to Porson's, for so
the establishment was henceforth to be known.


CHAPTER V: THE NEW MASTER


It was with much excitement and interest that the boys gathered in
their places for the first time under the new master. The boarders
had not seen him upon their arrival on the previous evening, but
had been received by an old housekeeper, who told them Mr. Porson
would not return until the coach came in from York that night.

All eyes were turned to the door as the master entered. The first
impression was that he was a younger man than they had expected.
Mr. Hathorn had been some forty-five years old; the newcomer was
not over thirty. He was a tall, loosely made man, with somewhat
stooping shoulders; he had heavy eyebrows, gray eyes, and a firm
mouth. He did not look round as he walked straight to his desk;
then he turned, and his eyes traveled quietly and steadily round
the room as if scanning each of the faces directed toward him.

"Now, boys," he said in a quiet voice, "a few words before we begin.
I am here to teach, and you are here to learn. As your master I
expect prompt obedience. I shall look to see each of you do your
best to acquire the knowledge which your parents have sent you here
to obtain. Above all, I shall expect that every boy here will be
straightforward, honorable, and truthful. I shall not expect to
find that all are capable of making equal progress; there are clever
boys and stupid boys, just as there are clever men and stupid men,
and it would be unjust to expect that one can keep up to the other;
but I do look to each doing his best according to his ability.
On my part I shall do my best to advance you in your studies, to
correct your faults, and to make useful men of you.

"One word as to punishments. I do not believe that knowledge is to
be thrashed into boys, or that fear is the best teacher. I shall
expect you to learn, partly because you feel that as your parents
have paid for you to learn it is your duty to learn, partly because
you wish to please me. I hope that the cane will seldom be used
in this school. It will be used if any boy tells me a lie, if any
boy does anything which is mean and dishonorable, if any boy is
obstinately idle, and when it is used it will be used to a purpose,
but I trust that the occasion for it will be rare.

"I shall treat you as friends whom it is my duty to instruct. You
will treat me, I hope, as a friend whose duty it is to instruct
you, and who has a warm interest in your welfare; if we really bear
these relations to each other there should be seldom any occasion
for punishment. And now as a beginning today, boys, let each come
up to my desk, one at a time, with his books. I shall examine you
separately, and see what each knows and is capable of doing. I
see by the report here that there are six boys in the first class.
As these will occupy me all the morning the rest can go into the
playground. The second class will be taken this afternoon."

The boys had listened with astonished silence to this address, and
so completely taken aback were they that all save those ordered to
remain rose from their seats and went out in a quiet and orderly
way, very different from the wild rush which generally terminated
school time.

Ned being in the second class was one of those who went out. Instead
of scattering into groups, the boys gathered in a body outside.

"What do you think of that, Sankey?" Tompkins said. "It seems
almost too good to be true. Only fancy, no more thrashing except
for lying and things of that sort, and treating us like friends!
and he talked as if he meant it too."

"That he did," Ned said gravely; "and I tell you, fellows, we shall
have to work now, and no mistake. A fellow who will not work for
such a man as that deserves to be skinned."

"I expect," said James Mather, who was one of the biggest boys in
the school though still in the third class, "that it's all gammon,
just to give himself a good name, and to do away with the bad repute
the school has got into for Hathorn's flogging. You will see how
long it will last! I ain't going to swallow all that soft soap."

Ned, who had been much touched at the master's address, at once
fired up:

"Oh! we all know how clever you are, Mather--quite a shining
genius, one of the sort who can see through a stone wall. If you
say it's gammon, of course it must be so."

There was a laugh among the boys.

"I will punch your head if you don't shut up, Sankey," Mather said
angrily; "there's no ink bottle for you to shy here."

Ned turned very white, but he checked himself with an effort.

"I don't want to fight today--it's the first day of the half
year, and after such a speech as we've heard I don't want to have
a row on this first morning. But you had better look out; another
time you won't find me so patient. Punch my head, indeed! Why, you
daren't try it."

But Mather would have tried it, for he had for the last year been
regarded as the cock of the school. However, several of the boys
interfered.

"Sankey is right, Mather; it would be a beastly shame to be fighting
this morning. After what Porson said there oughtn't to be any rows
today. We shall soon see whether he means it."

Mather suffered himself to be dissuaded from carrying his threat
into execution, the rather that in his heart of hearts he was not
assured that the course would have been a wise one. Ned had never
fought in the school, but Tompkins' account of his fight on the
moor with Bill Swinton, and the courage he had shown in taking upon
himself the office of spokesman in the rebellion against Hathorn,
had given him a very high reputation among the boys; and in spite
of Mather's greater age and weight there were many who thought
that Ned Sankey would make a tough fight of it with the cock of
the school.

So the gathering broke up and the boys set to at their games, which
were played with a heartiness and zest all the greater that none
of them were in pain from recent punishment, and that they could
look forward to the afternoon without fear and trembling.

When at twelve o'clock the boys of the first class came out from
school the others crowded round to hear the result of the morning's
lessons. They looked bright and pleased.

"I think he is going to turn out a brick," Ripon, the head of the
first class, said. "Of course one can't tell yet. He was very quiet
with us and had a regular examination of each of us. I don't think
he was at all satisfied, though we all did our best, but there was
no shouting or scolding. We are to go in again this afternoon with
the rest. He says there's something which he forgot to mention to
us this morning."

"More speeches!" Mather grumbled. "I hate all this jaw."

"Yes," Ripon said sharply; "a cane is the thing which suits your
understanding best. Well, perhaps he will indulge you; obstinate
idleness is one of the things he mentioned in the address."

When afternoon school began Mr. Porson again rose.

GEORGE MONTAGU
V. THE LIBRARY, STRAWBERRY HILL
VI. HORACE WALPOLE
From a picture in the National Portrait Gallery, by NATHANIEL HONE,
R.A.

INTRODUCTION.

It is creditable to our English nobility, and a feature in their
character that distinguishes them from their fellows of most other
nations, that, from the first revival of learning, the study of
literature has been extensively cultivated by men of high birth,
even by many who did not require literary fame to secure them a
lasting remembrance; and they have not contented themselves with
showing their appreciation of intellectual excellence by their
patronage of humbler scholars, but have themselves afforded examples
to other labourers in the hive, taking upon themselves the toils,
and earning no small nor undeserved share of the honours of authorship.

The very earliest of our poets, Chaucer, must have been a man of
gentle birth, since he was employed on embassies of importance, and
was married to the daughter of a French knight of distinction, and
sister of the Duchess of Lancaster.
The long civil wars of the fifteenth century prevented his having
any immediate followers; but the sixteenth opened more propitiously.

The conqueror of Flodden was also "Surrey of the deathless lay";[1]
and from his time to the present day there is hardly a break in the
long line of authors who have shown their feeling that noble birth
and high position are no excuses for idleness, but that the highest
rank gains additional illustration when it is shown to be united
with brilliant talents worthily exercised. The earliest of our
tragic poets was Sackville Earl of Dorset. The preux chevalier of
Elizabeth's Court, the accomplished and high-minded Sidney, took
up the lyre of Surrey: Lord St. Albans, more generally known by
his family name of Bacon, "took all learning for his province";
and, though peaceful studies were again for a while rudely
interrupted by the "dark deeds of horrid war," the restoration of peace
was, as it had been before, a signal for the resumption of their
studies by many of the best-born of the land.

Another Earl of Dorset displayed his hereditary talent not less than
his martial gallantry.
Lord Roscommon well deserved the praises which Dryden and Pope, after
his death, liberally bestowed. The great Lord Chancellor Clarendon
devoted his declining years to a work of a grander class, leaving
us a History which will endure as long as the language itself; while
ladies of the very highest rank, the Duchess of Newcastle and
Lady Mary Wortley Montague, vindicated the claims of their sex to
share with their brethren the honours of poetical fame.

[Footnote 1: "Lay of the Last Minstrel," vi. 14.]
Among this noble and accomplished brotherhood the author of these
letters is by general consent allowed to be entitled to no low place.

Horace Walpole, born in the autumn of 1717, was the youngest
son of that wise minister, Sir Robert Walpole, who, though, as
Burke afterwards described him, "not a genius of the first class,"
yet by his adoption of, and resolute adherence to a policy of peace
throughout the greater part of his administration, in which he was
fortunately assisted by the concurrence of Fleury of France,
contributed in no slight degree to the permanent establishment of
the present dynasty on the throne.

He received his education at the greatest of English schools, Eton,
to which throughout his life he preserved a warm attachment; and
where he gave a strong indication of his preference for peaceful
studies and his judicious appreciation of intellectual ability, by
selecting as his most intimate friend Thomas Gray, hereafter to
achieve a poetical immortality by the Bard and the Elegy.

From Eton they both went to Cambridge, and, when they quitted the
University, in 1738, joined in a travelling tour through France
and Italy. They continued companions for something more than two
years; but at the end of that time they separated, and in the
spring of 1741 Gray returned to England. The cause of their parting
was never distinctly avowed; Walpole took the blame, if blame there
was, on himself; but, in fact, it probably lay in an innate
difference of disposition, and consequently of object.

Walpole being fond of society, and, from his position as the
Minister's son, naturally courted by many of the chief men in the
different cities which they visited; while Gray was of a reserved
character shunning the notice of strangers, and fixing his attention
on more serious subjects than Walpole found attractive.

In the autumn of the same year Walpole himself returned home. He had
become a member of Parliament at the General Election in the summer,
and took his seat just in time to bear a part in the fierce contest
which terminated in the dissolution of his father's Ministry.

His maiden speech, almost the only one he ever made, was in defence
of the character and policy of his father, who was no longer in
the House of Commons to defend himself.[1] And the result of the
conflict made no slight impression on his mind; but gave a colour to
all his political views.

He began almost immediately to come forward as an author: not,
however, as-- 
Obliged by hunger and request of friends;
for in his circumstances he was independent, and even opulent; but
seeking to avenge his father by squibs on Mr.

Pulteney (now Lord Bath), as having been the leader of the attacks
on him, and on the new Ministry which had succeeded him. In
one respect that age was a happy one for ministers and all connected
with them. Pensions and preferments were distributed with a lavish
hand; and, even while he was a schoolboy, he had received more
than one "patent place," as such were called, in the Exchequer,
to which before his father's resignation others were added, which
after a time raised his income to above £5,000 a year, a fortune
which in those times was exceeded by comparatively few, even of
those regarded as wealthy.

So rich, indeed, was he, that before he was thirty he was able to
buy Strawberry Hill, "a small house near Twickenham," as he
describes it at first, but which he gradually enlarged and
embellished till it grew into something of a baronial castle on
a small scale, somewhat as, under the affectionate diligence of a
greater man, Abbotsford in the present century became one of the lions
of the Tweed.

[Footnote 1: The speech was made March 23, 1742; but Sir Robert had
resigned office, and been created Earl of Orford in the February
preceding.]

From this time forth literary composition, with the acquisition of
antiques and curiosities for the decoration of "Strawberry" occupied
the greater part of his life. He erected a printing press,
publishing not only most of his own writings, but some also of
other authors, such as poems of Gray, with whom he kept up
uninterrupted intercourse.

But, in fact, his own works were sufficiently numerous to keep his
printers fully employed. He was among the most voluminous writers
of a voluminous age. In the course of the next twenty years he
published seven volumes of memoirs of the last ten years of the
reign of George II. and the first ten of George III.; five volumes
of a work entitled "Royal and Noble Authors;" several more of
"Anecdotes of Painting;" "The Mysterious Mother," a tragedy; "The
Castle of Otranto," a romance; and a small volume to which he gave
the name of "Historic Doubts on Richard III."

Of all these not one is devoid of merit. He more than once explains
that the "Memoirs" have no claim to the more respectable title of
"History"; and he apologises for introducing anecdotes which might
be thought inconsistent with what Macaulay brands as "a vile phrase,"
the dignity of history. He excuses this, which he looked on as a
new feature in historical composition, on the ground that, if
trifles, "they are trifles relating to considerable people; such
as all curious people have ever loved to read." "Such trifles," he
says, "are valued, if relating to any reign one hundred and fifty
years ago; and, if his book should live so long, these too might
become acceptable."

Readers of the present day will not think such apology was needed.
The value of his "trifles" has been proved in a much shorter time;
for there is no subsequent historian of that period who has not
been indebted to him for many particulars of which no other
trustworthy record existed.

Walpole had in a great degree a historical mind; and perhaps there
are few works which show a keener critical insight into the value
of old traditions than the "Historic Doubts," directed to establish,
not, indeed, Richard's innocence of the crimes charged against
him, but the fact that, with respect to many of them, his guilt has
never been proved by any evidence which is not open to the gravest
impeachment.

His "Royal and Noble Authors," and his "Anecdotes of Painting" are
full of entertainment, not unmixed with instruction. "The Mysterious
Mother" was never performed on the stage, nor is it calculated for
representation; since he himself admits that the subject is
disgusting. But dramas not intended for representation, and which
therefore should perhaps be more fitly called dramatic poems, were
a species of composition to which more than one writer of reputation
had lately begun to turn their attention; though dramas not designed
for the stage seem to most readers defective in their very conception,
as lacking the stimulus which the intention of submitting them to
the extemporaneous ocular judgement of the public can alone impart.

Among such works, however, "The Mysterious Mother" is admitted to
rank high for vigorous description and poetic imagery.

A greater popularity, which even at the present day has not wholly
passed away, since it is still occasionally reprinted, was achieved
by "The Castle of Otranto," which, as he explains it in one of his
letters, owed its origin to a dream.

Novels had been a branch of literature which had slumbered for
several years after the death of Defoe, but which the genius of
Fielding and Smollett had again brought into fashion.

But their tales purported to be pictures of the manners of the
day. This was rather the forerunner of Mrs. Radcliffe's[1] weird
tales of supernatural mystery, which for a time so engrossed the
public attention as to lead that "wicked wag," Mr.

George Coleman, to regard them as representatives of the class, and
to describe how--
A novel now is nothing more Than an old castle and a creaking door;
A distant hovel; Clanking of chains, a gallery, a light, Old armour,
and a phantom all in white, And there's a novel.

[Footnote 1: "'The Castle of Otranto' was the father of that
marvellous series which once overstocked the circulating library,
and closed with Mrs. Radcliffe."--D'Israeli, "Curiosities of
Literature," ii. 115.]
He had published it anonymously as a tale that had been found in
the library of an ancient family in the North of England; but it
was not indebted solely to the mystery of its authorship for its
favourable reception--since, after he acknowledged it as his own
work in a second edition, the sale did not fall off.

And it deserved success, for, though the day had passed when even
the most credulous could place any faith in swords that required
a hundred men to lift, and helmets which could only fit the champion
whose single strength could wield such a weapon, the style was
lively and attractive, and the dialogue was eminently dramatic and
sparkling.

But the interest of all these works has passed away.

The "Memoirs" have served their turn as a guide and aid to more
regular historians, and the composition which still keeps its
author's fame alive is his Correspondence with some of his numerous
friends, male and female, in England or abroad, which he maintained
with an assiduity which showed how pleasurable he found the task,
while the care with which he secured the preservation of his letters,
begging his correspondents to retain them, in case at any future time
he should desire their return, proves that he anticipated the
possibility that they might hereafter be found interesting by other
readers than to those to whom they were addressed.

But he did not suffer either his writings or the enrichment of
"Strawberry" with antiquarian treasures to engross the whole of
his attention.

For the first thirty years and more of his public life he was a zealous
politician. And it is no slight proof how high was the reputation
for sagacity and soundness of judgement which he enjoyed, that
in the ministerial difficulties caused by Lord Chatham's illness,
he was consulted by the leaders of more than one section of the
Whig party, by Conway, the Duke of Bedford, the Duke of Grafton,
Lord Holland, and others; that his advice more than once influenced
their determinations; and that he himself drew more than one of the
letters which passed between them.

Even the King himself was not ignorant of the weight he had in their
counsels, and, on one occasion at least, condescended to avail
himself of it for a solution of some of the embarrassments with
which their negotiations were beset.

But after a time his attendance in Parliament, which had never
been very regular, grew wearisome and distasteful to him. At the
General Election of 1768 he declined to offer himself again as a
candidate for Lynn, which he had represented for several years. And
henceforth his mornings were chiefly occupied with literature; the
continuation of his Memoirs; discussion of literary subjects with
Gibbon, Voltaire, Mason, and others, while his evenings were passed
in the society of his friends, a mode of enjoying his time in which
he was eminently calculated to shine, since abundant testimony has
come down to us from many competent judges of the charm of his
conversation; the liveliness of his disposition acting as a most
attractive frame to the extent and variety of his information.

Among his distractions were his visits to France, which for some
time were frequent. He had formed a somewhat singular intimacy
with a blind old lady, the Marquise du Deffand, a lady whose
character in her youth had been something less than doubtful, since
she had been one of the Regent Duc d'Orléans's numerous mistresses;
but who had retained in her old age much of the worldly acuteness
and lively wit with which she had borne her part in that clever,
shameless society.

Her _salon_ was now the resort of many personages of the highest
distinction, even of ladies themselves of the most unstained
reputation, such as the Duchesse de Choiseul; and the rumours or
opinions which he heard in their company enabled him to enrich
his letters to his friends at home with comments on the conduct
of the French Parliament, of Maupéon, Maurepas, Turgot, and the
King himself, which, in many instances, attest the shrewdness with
which he estimated the real bearing of the events which were taking
place, and anticipated the possible character of some of those which
were not unlikely to ensue.

Thus, with a mind which, to the end, was so active and so happily
constituted as to be able to take an interest in everything
around him, and, even when more than seventy years old, to make
new friends to replace those who had dropped off, he passed a long,
a happy, and far from an useless life. When he was seventy-four he
succeeded to his father's peerage, on the death of his elder
brother; but he did not long enjoy the title, by which, indeed,
he was not very careful to be distinguished, and in the spring of
1797 he died, within a few months of his eightieth birthday.

A great writer of the last generation, whose studies were of a
severer cast, and who, conscious perhaps of his own unfitness to
shine at the tea-table of fashionable ladies, was led by that feeling
to undervalue the lighter social gifts which formed conspicuous
ingredients in Walpole's character, has denounced him not only as
frivolous in his tastes, but scarcely above mediocrity in his
abilities (a sentence to which Scott's description of him as "a man
of great genius" may be successfully opposed); and is especially
severe on what he terms his affectation in disclaiming the compliments
bestowed on his learning by some of his friends.

The expressed estimate of his acquirements and works which so
offended Lord Macaulay was that "there is nobody so superficial,
that, except a little history, a little poetry, a little painting,
and some divinity, he knew nothing; he had always lived in the
busy world; had always loved pleasure; played loo till two or three
in the morning; haunted auctions--in short, did not know so much
astronomy as would carry him to Knightsbridge; not more physic than
a physician; nor, in short, anything that is called science.

If it were not that he laid up a little provision in summer, like
the ant, he should be as ignorant as the people he lived with."[1]
In Lord Macaulay's view, Walpole was never less sincere than when
pronouncing such a judgement on his works. He sees in it nothing but
an affectation, fishing for further praises; and, fastening on his
account of his ordinary occupations, he pronounces that a man of
fifty should be ashamed of playing loo till after midnight.

[Footnote 1: Letter to Mann, Feb. 6, 1760.]
Their respect and affection for their master were
greatly heightened by the fact that his behavior toward them was
in no way altered by the circumstances. His temper was as patient
and equable as before in the schoolroom; he was as cheerful and
friendly in the cricket field, They could see, however, that he
was worried and depressed, though he strove to appear the same as
usual. Often did they discuss among themselves how different the
state of things would have been had the loss happened to Mr. Hathorn,
and what a life they would have led under those circumstances.

At the end of a week the happy thought struck Ripon that a subscription
should be made to buy a new dictionary. The amount was a serious
one, as they found that the book could not be purchased under
two guineas; but every boy subscribed to his last farthing. Some
promised their pocket money for weeks in advance; others wrote
home to their parents to ask for money, and in ten days the boys
had the satisfaction of seeing Ripon at the commencement of school
walk up to Mr. Porson's desk and present him with the handsome
volume in the name of all the boys. Ripon had taken some pains in
getting up an appropriate speech, and it was voted a great success.

"Mr. Porson," he said, "in the name of all the boys in the school
I beg to ask your acceptance of this volume. It cannot have the
value to you of that which you have lost, as that was a prize;
but we hope, that as a proof of the respect and affection which we
all have for you, and as a token of our appreciation of your very
great kindness toward us, you will accept it in place of the other."

Mr. Porson's face lit up with pleasure.

"My boys," he said, "I am very highly gratified at this proof that
I have succeeded in my endeavors to make you feel that I am your
friend as well as your master, and I shall value your gift far more
highly than my college prize. That was simply the result of my own
labor; this is a proof of kindness and affection on your parts. I
shall value it very greatly all my life. And now, as I don't think
you will be able to pay much attention to your work this morning,
and as I have been for some days awaiting an opportunity to go
over to York, where I have some pressing business, I shall start
at once, and can just catch the stage, and shall get back in time
for school tomorrow morning, so you will have the day to yourselves."

With a shout of pleasure the boys started off for a long day in the
cricket field, while Mr. Porson hurried away to catch the stagecoach
for York.


CHAPTER VI: THE THIEF DETECTED


Mr. Porson was in his place next morning, having returned only half
an hour before school began; he looked fagged, and he was scarcely
so attentive as usual to the lessons, his thoughts seeming to be
elsewhere.

"He seems regularly done up with his journey," Ripon said as the
boys came out of school.

"I think he is upset about something," Ned remarked. "Sometimes
he hardly seemed paying attention to what was going on, and he did
not speak as cheerfully as usual. I noticed a sort of change in
his voice directly he began. I hope nothing wrong has occurred, we
were getting on so jollily."

When afternoon school began Mr. Porson placed on the desk before
him a packet done up in brown paper.

"Boys," he said, "I have got my book again."

An exclamation of surprise and pleasure burst from the boys. The
mystery had weighed heavily on the school, and a look of eager curiosity
came over every face to hear how the book had been recovered.

"It was found in a bookseller's shop in York," Mr. Porson went on.
"I myself had inquired at Leighton's here, but with little hope of
finding it, for no one who stole it would have disposed of it so
near home. I then wrote to several friends in the large towns, and
one of them, a clergyman at York, wrote to me two days ago to say
that just such a book as I had described was on sale in the window
of one of the booksellers there. It was a second hand copy, but
in excellent preservation. The flyleaf was missing. On going over
yesterday I found that it was my book, and was able to prove it by
several marginal notes in my handwriting.

"The bookseller said at once that it was sent him by a general
dealer at Marsden who was in the habit of picking up books at sales
in the neighborhood and sending them to him; he had given eighteen
shillings for it. This morning I have called upon the man, whose
name is White, accompanied by a constable. He admitted at once that
he had sent the book to York, and said that he bought it from some
one about a month ago. His customer came late, and as White is
short sighted, and there was only a tallow candle burning in the
shop, he said that he should not know him again, and could say
nothing about his age; however, I shall call him in; he is now
outside with the constable. I am sure that for your own sakes you
will not object to his taking a look at you."

Mr. Porson went to the door, and the constable and White entered.
The chief constable, when Mr. Porson had called upon him to ask
for one of his men to accompany him to the dealer's, had told him
that White bore a very bad reputation. He was suspected of being
the medium through whom stolen goods in that part of Yorkshire were
sent up to London for disposal. A highwayman who had been caught
and executed at York, had in his confession stated that this man
had acted as his go between for the disposal of the watches and
other articles he took from travelers, and White's premises had
then been thoroughly searched by the constables; but as nothing
suspicious was found, and there was only the unsupported confession
of the highwayman against him, he had got off scot free.

"I don't think you will get anything out of him, Mr. Porson," the
constable said. "The fact that he has been trusted by these fellows
shows that he is not a man to peach upon those with whom he deals;
and in the next place he would know well enough that if any one were
convicted of stealing this book he would be liable to a prosecution
as receiver; and though we could scarcely get a conviction against
him, as we could not prove that he knew that it was stolen, it
would do him no good."

The boys all stood up in a line. "I will look at 'em, sir," White
said; "but, as I have told you, I should not know the man as I
bought that book from, from Adam. Anyhow none of these little ones
couldn't be he. If it weren't a man, he were as big as a man. You
don't suppose an honest tradesman would buy an expensive book like
that from a kid."

So saying he placed a pair of horn spectacles on his nose and walked
round the line.

"I don't see any one here whose face I ever see before as far as
I knows; but bless you, the man as I bought it of might have had
hair all over his face, and I be none the wiser looking at him
across that counter of mine in the dark."

"Thank you," Mr. Porson said; "then it is of no use troubling you
further. I have got my book back; but I confess that this affords
me but small gratification in comparison to that which I should
feel if I could unravel this mystery."

The discovery of the book reopened the interest in the matter, and
nothing else was talked of that evening in the playground.

"Ripon," Ned said, putting his arm in that of the head boy, "I want
to tell you a thing that has been in my mind for the last three
weeks; mind, I don't say that there's anything in it, and I hate
to think harm of any one. There is another thing; he and I ain't
good friends. If it hadn't been for that I should have spoken to
you before; but I was afraid that it would look like a piece of
dirty spite on my part; but I do think now that as head boy you
ought to know, and I want your advice whether I ought to say anything
about it or not."

"What a long winded chap you are, Sankey! What is it all about?"

"Well, you know, Ripon, when we got up that subscription for the
cricket things, Mather didn't give anything. He said he had no
money."

"No; and he hadn't any," Ripon said, "for I had only the day before
lent him twopence to buy some string, and he paid me when he got
his allowance on Saturday."

"Well, a day or two after that I came back after tea for a book that
I had left behind me, and as I came in at the gate there Mather was
standing at the corner talking to Mother Brown. He had his back to
the door, and they didn't see me. She was talking loud and angry
and I couldn't help hearing what she said."

"Well, what did she say?" Ripon said rather impatiently.

"She said, 'You have disappointed me over and over again, and if
you don't pay me that ten shillings you borrowed of me last half,
and the bill for the cakes, by Saturday, I will see the master and
tell him all about it.' I didn't hear any more; but on the Saturday
I saw him go up to her in the field and pay her something. Of course
I don't know what it was; not all, I think, by the manner in which
she took it; still, I suppose it was enough to content her. About
ten days afterward we heard the book was missing. It didn't strike
me at the time; but afterward, when I thought of it, I remembered
that the last time Porson brought it out was on the Thursday, which
was the day after Mather had been speaking to Mother Brown. Now,
of course, Ripon, I don't actually suspect Mather of taking the
book; still it is curious its being missing just at the time he
wanted money so badly. He may have got the money from home, or he
may have borrowed it from some other fellow."

"No," Ripon said positively, "I am sure Mather has had no letter,
because I always distribute the letters, and Mather's people never
write to him; and I am sure there was no fellow in the school had
more than a shilling or two at the outside at that time. Why didn't
you tell me before, Sankey?"

"I didn't like to, because every one knows Mather and I are not good
friends; then I thought perhaps Mather might be able to explain it
all right, and I should have cut a nice figure if he could; then
at the time when I thought of it, and had got the dates right, the
first excitement had died out and I thought we might hear no more
of it and it would be forgotten; but now that the book has been
found and the whole thing has come up fresh again I thought it
better to tell you all about it and ask you what you would advise
me to do."

Ripon did not answer for some time; then he said:

"I am sure I don't know, Ned; I will think it over till tomorrow.
You have not said anything about it to any one else?"

"Not to a soul. I hesitated whether I should tell you or father,
but he wouldn't understand how boys think of these things so well
as you do; so I thought as you were head of the school it was best
you should know."

"I wish you hadn't told me," Ripon grumbled. "I am sure I don't
know what's best to do;" and he turned away and began to pace the
yard moodily up and down.

"The only thing I have decided," he said to Ned the next day, "is
to ask Mother Brown myself how much Mather paid her. We may as well
settle that question first."

As this was Wednesday and the cake woman was coming that evening
there was not long to wait. Ripon chose a time when most of the
boys had made their purchases and the old woman was alone.

"Don't you give too much tick to any of the fellows, Mother Brown,"
he began. "You know it isn't always easy to get money that's owing."

"I should think not, Master Ripon; I wish they would always pay
money down as you do. There's Master Mather, he been owing me money
ever since last half. He borrowed ten shillings of me and promised
solemn he would pay at the end of the week, and he has only paid
five shillings yet, a month ago, and that was only 'cause I told
him I would tell the master about him; there's that five shillings,
and seven shillings and eightpence for cakes and things; but I have
been giving him a piece of my mind this afternoon; and if I don't
get that other five shillings by Saturday, sure enough I will speak
to t' maister about it. No one can say as Mother Brown is hard on
boys, and I am always ready to wait reasonable; but I can't abear
lies, and when I lent that ten shillings I expected it was going
to be paid punctual."

"Then he knows you are going to speak to Mr. Porson on Saturday if
he doesn't pay up another five shillings?"

"He knows it," the old woman said, nodding. "When I says a thing
I mean it. So he had best pay up."

When Ripon met Ned next day he said: "I talked to her last night.
Mather paid her five shillings, and she has told him if he doesn't
pay her the other five by Saturday she will speak to Porson; so I
think the best plan is to wait till then and see what comes of it.
She will tell the whole story and Porson will learn it without our
interference, and can think what he likes about it."

Relieved in mind at finding that there was a prospect of his
avoiding the decision whether or not to inform the master of his
suspicions, Ned went to his desk. When afternoon school began Mr.
Porson said gravely:

"Boys, when you came back from the field did you all go straight
to the washing room to wash your hands before dinner?"

There was a chorus of surprised assent.

"I am sorry to tell you that another theft has been committed. A
gold pencil case has disappeared from my study table. I was using
it after school. I left it on the table when I went for a stroll
before dinner. I remember most distinctly laying it down among the
pens. I went into my study ten minutes ago; and wanting to make a
note as to this afternoon's work looked for the pencil and it was
gone. The window was open as usual, and it is possible that tramps
passing along the road may have come into the garden and have got
in at the window. As in the case of the book I suspect no one, but
two such occurrences as these are very uncomfortable for us all.
I shall not propose any search this time, for had any of you taken
it, which I cannot for a moment believe, he would not have been
careless enough to put it in his pocket, or conceal it in his desk
or boxes, but would have stowed it away somewhere where there would
be no chance whatever of its being found. Now let us dismiss the
subject and go on with our lessons."

While the master was speaking Ripon and Sankey had glanced for
a moment at each other; the same thought was in both their minds.
After school was over they joined each other in the yard.

"Was Mather in the washing room with the others?" Sankey asked
eagerly.

"He was, but he came up last," Ripon replied. "You know he generally
saunters along in a lazy way and is the last to get in. So he was
today, but I don't know that he was later than usual."

"I think, Ripon, we ought to speak to Porson."

"I think so too," Ripon rejoined gravely; "it is too serious to keep
to ourselves. Any ordinary thing I would not peach about on any
account, but a disgraceful theft like this, which throws a doubt
over us all, is another thing; the honor of the whole school is at
stake. I have been thinking it over. I don't want Mather to suspect
anything, so I will go out at the back gate with you, as if I was
going to walk part of the way home with you, and then we will go
round to the front door and speak to Porson."

The master was sitting on a low seat in the window of his study.
Hearing footsteps coming up from the front gate he looked round.

"Do you want to speak to me, boys?" he asked in some surprise
through the open window. "What makes you come round the front way?"

"We want to see you privately, sir," Ripon said.

"Very well, boys, I will open the door for you.

"Now, what is it?" he asked as the boys followed him into the study.

"Well, sir, it may be nothing, I am sure I hope so," Ripon said,
"but Sankey and I thought you ought to know and then it will be off
our minds, and you can do as you like about it. Now, Sankey, tell
what you knew first, then I will tell what Mother Brown said to me
on Wednesday."

Ned told the story in the same words in which he had related it
to Ripon; and Ripon then detailed his conversation with the cake
woman, and her threats of reporting Mather on Saturday were the debt
not paid. Ned had already given his reason for keeping silence in
the matter hitherto, and Ripon now explained that they had determined
to wait till Saturday to see what came of it, but that after that
new theft they deemed it their duty to speak at once. Mr. Porson
sat with his face half shaded with his hand and without speaking
a single word until the boys had concluded.

"It is a sad business," he said in a low tone, "a very sad business.
It is still possible that you may have come to false conclusions;
but the circumstances you have related are terribly strong. I am
grieved, indeed, over the business, and would rather have lost a
hundred books and pencil cases than it should have happened. You
have done quite right, boys; I am greatly obliged to you both, and
you have acted very well. I know how painful it must be to you both
to have been obliged to bring so grave a matter to my ears. Thank
you; I will consider what is the best course to adopt. If it can
be avoided, I shall so arrange that your names do not appear in
the matter."

For some little time after the boys had left him Mr. Porson remained
in deep thought; then he rose, put on his hat, and went out, first
inquiring of the servant if she knew where the woman who sold cakes
to the boys lived.

"Yes, sir; she lives in a little house in Mill Street; it's not a
regular shop, but there are a few cakes in one of the windows; I
have bought things there for the kitchen, knowing that she dealt
with the young gentlemen."

Mr. Porson made his way to Mill Street and easily found the house
he was in search of. On being questioned the old woman at first
showed some reluctance in answering his questions, but Mr. Porson
said sharply:

"Now, dame, I want no nonsense; I am acquainted with the whole
affair, but wish to have it from your own lips. Unless you tell me
the whole truth not a cake will you sell my boys in future."

Thus pressed Mrs. Brown at once related the story of Mather having
borrowed some money of her; of her threats to report him unless he
paid, and of his having given her five shillings on the following
Saturday, saying that he would give her the rest in a few days, but
could pay no more then; and how, after repeated disappointments,
she had now given him till Saturday to settle the debt.

"If he didn't pay, sir, I meant to have come to ye and telled ye
all about it, for I hate lies, and Master Mather has lied to me
over and over again about it; but seeing that Saturday hasn't come
I don't like telling ye the story, as he may have meant to keep
his word to me this time."

"Here are the five shillings which he borrowed of you; as to the
other money, you will never get it, and I hope it will be a lesson
to you; and mind, if I find that you ever allow the boys to run an
account with you further than the following Saturday after it is
incurred, you will never come into my field or playground again."

Mr. Porson then went to the chief constable's, and after a short
conversation with him a constable was told off to accompany him.
He and the master took their station at a short distance from the
shop of the man White and waited quietly. A little after nine a
figure was seen coming down the street from the other end. He passed
quickly into the shop.

"That is the boy," Mr. Porson said.

"Wouldn't it be better, sir," the constable asked, "to wait till the
deed is completed, then we can lay our hands on White as a receiver?"

"No," Mr. Porson replied, "for in that case the boy would have
to appear with him in the dock, and that I wish of all things to
avoid."

So saying he walked quickly on and entered the shop.

Mather was leaning across the counter while the man was examining
the pencil case by the light of the candle.

"Five shillings," the man said, "and no more. I was nearly getting
into trouble over that last job of yours."

"But it's worth a great deal more than that," Mather said. "You
might give me ten."

"Well, take it back then," the man said, pushing it across the
counter.

"Thank you, I will take it myself," Mr. Porson said quietly, as he
advanced and stretched out his hand.

Mather turned round with a sudden cry, and then stood the picture
of silent terror.

"As for you," the master said indignantly to the dealer, "you
scoundrel, if you had your deserts I would hand you over to the
constable, who is outside the door, as a receiver of stolen goods,
and for inciting this boy to theft. I heard you offer him a sum
of money for it which shows that you knew it was stolen; but your
time will come, sir, and you will hang over the gate of York prison
as many a poor wretch far less guilty than yourself has done;"
for in those days death was the punishment of receivers of stolen
goods, as well as of these convicted of highway robbery and burglary.

"Have mercy, sir, oh, spare me!" Mather exclaimed, falling on his
knees. "Don't give me in charge."

"I am not going to do so," the master said. "Get up and come with
me."

Not a word was spoken on the way back to the school.

Mr. Porson then took Mather into his study, where they remained
for half an hour. What passed between them was never known. In the
morning the boys who slept in the room with Mather were surprised
to find that his bed was empty and the window open. He had gone
to bed at half past eight as usual, and saying he was sleepy had
threatened to punch the head of any boy who spoke, so that all had
gone off to sleep in a very short time. A stout ivy grew against
the wall, and some fallen leaves on the ground showed them that he
had climbed down with the assistance of its stem. But why he should
have gone, and what on earth possessed him to run away, none could
imagine. The news ran rapidly through the other bedrooms, and brimful
of excitement all went down when the bell rang for prayers before
breakfast. The list of names was called out by the master as usual,
and the excitement grew breathless as the roll of the third class
was called; but to the astonishment of all, Mather's name was
omitted. When the list was concluded Mr. Porson said:

"Mather has left; I grieve to say that I have discovered that it
was he who stole the book and pencil case. He has confessed the
whole to me, and he is, I trust, sincerely penitent. He slept last
night on the sofa in my study, and has gone off this morning by the
coach. I have written to his parents stating the whole circumstances
under which he was driven to commit the theft, and that although
I could not permit him to remain here, I trusted and believed that
his repentance was sincere, and that it would be a lesson to him
through life, and I urged them to give him a further trial, and
not to drive him to desperation by severity.

"There is a lesson which you may all learn from this. Mather
committed these crimes because he had borrowed money which he could
not repay. Most foolishly and mistakenly the woman who supplies
you with cakes had lent him money and when he could not repay it
according to his promise to her, threatened to report the case to
me, and it was to prevent the matter coming to my ears that he took
these things. Let this be a warning to you, boys, through life.
Never borrow money, never spend more than your means afford. An
extravagance may seem to you but a small fault, but you see crime
and disgrace may follow upon it. Think this well over, and be
lenient in your hearts to your late schoolfellow. He was tempted,
you see, and none of us can tell what he may do when temptation
comes, unless we have God's help to enable us to withstand it, and
to do what is right. Now let us fall to at our breakfast."

It was a strangely silent meal. Scarce a word was spoken, even in
a whisper. It came as a shock to everybody there, that after all the
dictionary should have been taken by one of their number, and that
the master's kindness on that occasion should have been requited
by another robbery seemed a disgrace to the whole school. That
Mather, too, always loud, noisy, and overbearing, should have been
the thief was surprising indeed. Had it been some quiet little
boy, the sort of boy others are given to regard as a sneak, there
would have been less surprise, but that Mather should do such
a thing was astounding. These were probably the first reflections
which occurred to every boy as he sat down to breakfast.

The next impression was how good Mr. Porson had been about it. He
might have given Mother in charge, and had him punished by law.
He might have given him a terrific flogging and a public expulsion
before all the school. Instead of that he had sent him quietly
away, and seemed sorry for rather than angry with him. By the time
the meal was finished there was probably not a boy but had taken
an inward resolution that there was nothing he would not do for his
master, and although such resolutions are generally but transient,
Mr. Porson found that the good effect of his treatment of Mather
was considerable and permanent. Lessons were more carefully learned,
obedience was not perhaps more prompt, but it was more willing,
and the boys lost no opportunity of showing how anxious they were
to please in every respect.

Ned and his brother were not present when Mr. Porson explained the
cause of Mather's absence to the others, but they were surrounded
by their schoolfellows, all eager to tell the news upon their
arrival in the playground a few minutes before the school began.

Before breaking up in June, Porson's played their first cricket match
with a strong village team, and beat them handsomely, although, as
the boys said, it was to their master's bowling that their success
was due. Still the eleven all batted fairly, and made so long a
score that they won in one innings; and Mr. Porson promised them
that before the season ended they should have a whole holiday, and
play the Marsden eleven.

Ned enjoyed his holiday rambles, taking several long walks across
the moors accompanied by Bill Swinton, who had now perfectly
recovered. The discontent among the croppers, and indeed among the
workers in the mills generally through the country was as great as
ever; but the season was a good one; bread had fallen somewhat in
price, and the pinch was a little less severe than it had been. The
majority of the masters had been intimidated by the action of their
hands from introducing the new machinery, and so far the relations
between master and men, in that part of Yorkshire at any rate,
remained unchanged. But although Ned enjoyed his rambles he was
glad when the holidays were over. He had no friends of his own age
in Marsden; his brother was too young to accompany him in his long
walks, and Bill obtained a berth in one of the mills shortly after
the holidays began, and was no longer available. Therefore Ned
looked forward to meeting his schoolfellows again, to the fun of
the cricket field and playground, and even to lessons, for these
were no longer terrible.

The school reopened with largely increased numbers. I remember
two or three years ago I wished for more active times, and for
events to furnish our correspondence. I think I could write you a
letter almost as big as my Lord Clarendon's History. What a bold
man is he who shall undertake the administration! How much shall
we be obliged to him! How mad is he, whoever is ambitious of it!
Adieu!

_THE KING OF PRUSSIA'S VICTORIES--VOLTAIRE'S "UNIVERSAL HISTORY."_

TO THE EARL OF STRAFFORD.

STRAWBERRY HILL, _July_ 4, 1757.

My Dear Lord,--It is well I have not obeyed you sooner, as I have often
been going to do: what a heap of lies and contradictions I should
have sent you! What joint ministries and sole ministries! What
acceptances and resignations!--Viziers and bowstrings never
succeeded one another quicker. Luckily I have stayed till we have
got an administration that will last a little more than for ever.
There is such content and harmony in it, that I don't know whether
it is not as perfect as a plan which I formed for Charles Stanhope,
after he had plagued me for two days for news.

I told him the Duke of Newcastle was to take orders, and have the
reversion of the bishopric of Winchester; that Mr. Pitt was to
have a regiment, and go over to the Duke; and Mr. Fox to be
chamberlain to the Princess, in the room of Sir William Irby. Of
all the new system I believe the happiest is Offley; though in great
humility he says he only takes the bedchamber _to accommodate_.
Next to him in joy is the Earl of Holdernesse--who has not got the
garter.

My Lord Waldegrave has; and the garter by this time I believe has
got fifty spots.

Had I written sooner, I should have told your lordship, too, of the
King of Prussia's triumphs[1]--but they are addled too! I hoped
to have had a few bricks from Prague to send you towards building
Mr. Bentley's design, but I fear none will come from thence this
summer. Thank God, the happiness of the menagerie does not depend
upon administrations or victories! The happiest of beings in this
part of the world is my Lady Suffolk: I really think her acquisition
and conclusion of her law-suit will lengthen her life ten years. You
may be sure I am not so satisfied, as Lady Mary [Coke] has left
Sudbroke.

[Footnote 1: On the 6th of May Frederic defeated the Austrian army
under Prince Charles of Lorraine and Marshal Brown in the battle
of Prague.
Brown was killed, as also was the Prussian Marshal, Schwerin; indeed,
the King lost eighteen thousand men--nearly as many as had fallen
on the side of the enemy; and the Austrian disaster was more than
retrieved by the great victory of Kolin, gained by Marshal Daun,
June 18th, to which Walpole probably alludes when he says Frederic's
"triumphs are addled."]

Are your charming lawns burnt up like our humble hills? Is your
sweet river as low as our deserted Thames?--I am wishing for a
handful or two of those floods that drowned me last year all the
way from Wentworth Castle.

I beg my best compliments to my lady, and my best wishes that every
pheasant egg and peacock egg may produce as many colours as a
harlequin-jacket.

_Tuesday, July 5th._
Luckily, my good lord, my conscience had saved its distance. I had
writ the above last night, when I received the honour of your kind
letter this morning. You had, as I did not doubt, received accounts
of all our strange histories. For that of the pretty Countess [of
Coventry], I fear there is too much truth in all you have heard:
but you don't seem to know that Lord Corydon and Captain Corydon
his brother have been most abominable. I don't care to write
scandal; but when I see you, I will tell you how much the chits
deserve to be whipped. Our favourite general [Conway] is at his
camp: Lady Ailesbury don't go to him these three weeks.

I expect the pleasure of seeing her and Miss Rich and Fred.
Campbell here soon for a few days.

I don't wonder your lordship likes St. Philippe better than Torcy:[1]
except a few passages interesting to Englishmen, there cannot be a
more dry narration than the latter. There is an addition of seven
volumes of Universal History to Voltaire's Works, which I think will
charm you: I almost like it the best of his works.

It is what you have seen extended, and the Memoirs of Louis
XIV.

_refondues_ in it. He is a little tiresome with contradicting La
Beaumelle and Voltaire, one remains with scarce a fixed idea
about that time. I wish they would produce their authorities and
proofs; without which, I am grown to believe neither. From mistakes
in the English part, I suppose there are great ones in the
more distant histories; yet altogether it is a fine work.

He is, as one might believe, worst informed on the present times.--He
says eight hundred persons were put to death for the last Rebellion--I
don't believe a quarter of the number were: and he makes the first
Lord Derwentwater--who, poor man!

was in no such high-spirited mood--bring his son, who by the way was
not above a year and a half old, upon the scaffold to be sprinkled
with his blood.

--However, he is in the right to expect to be believed: for he
believes all the romances in Lord Anson's Voyage, and how Admiral
Almanzor made one man-of-war box the ears of the whole empire of
China!--I know nothing else new but a new edition of Dr.

Young's Works.
If your lordship thinks like me, who hold that even in his most
frantic rhapsodies there are innumerable fine things, you will like
to have this edition.

Adieu, once more, my best lord!

[Footnote 1: Torcy had been Secretary of State in the time of
Louis XIV., and was the diplomatist who arranged the details of
the First Partition Treaty with William III.]

_HIS OWN "ROYAL AND NOBLE AUTHORS."_
TO THE REV.

HENRY ZOUCH.[1]
[Footnote 1: Mr. Zouch was the squire and vicar of Sandhill, in
Yorkshire.]
STRAWBERRY HILL, _August_ 3, 1758.

Sir,--I have received, with much pleasure and surprise, the favour
of your remarks upon my Catalogue; and whenever I have the opportunity
of being better known to you, I shall endeavour to express my
gratitude for the trouble you have given yourself in contributing
to perfect a work, which, notwithstanding your obliging expressions,
I fear you found very little worthy the attention of so much good
sense and knowledge, Sir, as you possess.

I am extremely thankful for all the information you have given me;
I had already met with a few of the same lights as I have received,
Sir, from you, as I shall mention in their place.

The very curious accounts of Lord Fairfax were entirely new and most
acceptable to me. If I decline making use of one or two of your
hints, I believe I can explain my reasons to your satisfaction.

I will, with your leave, go regularly through your letter.

As Caxton[1] laboured in the monastery of Westminster, it is not
at all unlikely that he should wear the habit, nor, considering how
vague our knowledge of that age is, impossible but he might enter
the order.

[Footnote 1: Mr. Zouch had expressed a doubt whether a portrait
of a man in a clerical garb could possibly be meant for Caxton,
and Mr.

Cole and three of Walpole's literary correspondents suggested
that it was probably a portrait of Jehan de Jeonville, Provost of
Paris.]
I have met with Henry's institution of a Christian, and shall give
you an account of it in my next edition.

In that, too, I shall mention, that Lord Cobham's allegiance professed
at his death to Richard II., probably means to Richard and his right
heirs whom he had abandoned for the house of Lancaster.

As the article is printed off, it is too late to say anything
more about his works.

In all the old books of genealogy you will find, Sir, that young
Richard Duke of York was solemnly married to a child of his own
age, Anne Mowbray, the heiress of Norfolk, who died young as well
as he.

The article of the Duke of Somerset is printed off too; besides,
I should imagine the letter you mention not to be of his own
composition, for, though not illiterate, he certainly could not
write anything like classic Latin. I may, too, possibly have
inclusively mentioned the very letter; I have not Ascham's book,
to see from what copy the letter was taken, but probably from one
of those which I have said is in Bennet Library.

The Catalogue of Lord Brooke's works is taken from the volume of
his works; such pieces of his as I found doubted, particularly
the tragedy of Cicero, I have taken notice of as doubtful.

In my next edition you will see, Sir, a note on Lord Herbert, who,
besides being with the King at York, had offended the peers by a
speech in his Majesty's defence.

Mr. Wolseley's preface I shall mention, from your information. Lord
Rochester's letters to his son are letters to a child, bidding him
mind his book and his grandmother.

I had already been told, Sir, what you tell me of Marchmont
Needham.

Matthew Clifford I have altered to Martin, as you prescribed; the
blunder was my own, as well as a more considerable one, that of
Lord Sandwich's death--which was occasioned by my supposing, at
first, that the translation of Barba was made by the second Earl,
whose death I had marked in the list, and forgot to alter, after I
had writ the account of the father. I shall take care to set this
right, as the second volume is not yet begun to be printed.

Lord Halifax's Maxims I have already marked down, as I shall Lord
Dorset's share in Pompey.

The account of the Duke of Wharton's death I had from a very good
hand--Captain Willoughby; who, in the convent where the Duke died,
saw a picture of him in the habit.

If it was a Bernardine convent, the gentleman might confound them;
but, considering that there is no life of the Duke but bookseller's
trash, it is much more likely that they mistook.

I have no doubts about Lord Belhaven's speeches; but unless I could
verify their being published by himself, it were contrary to my
rule to insert them.

If you look, Sir, into Lord Clarendon's account of Montrose's
death, you will perceive that there is no probability of the book
of his actions being composed by himself.

I will consult Sir James Ware's book on Lord Totness's translation;
and I will mention the Earl of Cork's Memoirs.

Lord Leppington is the Earl of Monmouth, in whose article I have
taken notice of his Romulus and Tarquin.

Lord Berkeley's book I have actually got, and shall give him an
article.

There is one more passage, Sir, in your letter, which I cannot
answer, without putting you to new trouble--a liberty which all
your indulgence cannot justify me in taking; else I would beg to
know on what authority you attribute to Laurence Earl of Rochester[1]
the famous preface to his father's history, which I have always
heard ascribed to Atterbury, Smallridge, and Aldridge.[2] The
knowledge of this would be an additional favour; it would be a much
greater, Sir, if coming this way, you would ever let me have the
honour of seeing a gentleman to whom I am so much obliged.

[Footnote 1: The Earl of Rochester was the second son of the Earl
of Clarendon. He was Lord Treasurer under James II., but was
dismissed because he refused to change his religion (Macaulay's
"History of England," c. 6).]

[Footnote 2: Atterbury was the celebrated Bishop of Rochester, Smallridge
was Bishop of Bristol, and Aldridge (usually written Aldrich) was
Dean of Christchurch, Oxford, equally well known for his treatise
on Logic and his five reasons for drinking--
Good wine, a friend, or being dry; Or lest you should be by and by,
Or any other reason why--]

_HIS "ROYAL AND NOBLE AUTHORS"--LORD CLARENDON--SIR R. WALPOLE AND
LORD BOLINGBROKE--THE DUKE OF LEEDS._
TO THE REV. HENRY ZOUCH.

STRAWBERRY HILL, _Oct._ 21, 1758.

Sir,--Every letter I receive from you is a new obligation,
bringing me new information: but, sure, my Catalogue was not worthy
of giving you so much trouble. Lord Fortescue is quite new to
me; I have sent him to the press. Lord Dorset's[1] poem it will
be unnecessary to mention separately, as I have already said that
his works are to be found among those of the minor poets.

[Footnote 1: Lord Dorset, Lord Chamberlain under Charles II., author
of the celebrated ballad "To all you ladies now on land," and patron
of Dryden and other literary men, was honourably mentioned as such
by Macaulay in c. 8 of his "History," and also for his refusal, as
Lord-Lieutenant of Essex, to comply with some of James's illegal
orders.]

I don't wonder, Sir, that you prefer Lord Clarendon to Polybius[1];
nor can two authors well be more unlike: the _former_ wrote a
general history in a most obscure and almost unintelligible style;
the _latter_, a portion of private history, in the noblest style in
the world. Whoever made the comparison, I will do them the justice
to believe that they understood bad Greek better than their own
language in its elevation.
For Dr. Jortin's[2] Erasmus, which I have very nearly finished,
it has given me a good opinion of the author, and he has given me
a very bad one of his subject. By the Doctor's labour and impartiality,
Erasmus appears a begging parasite, who had parts enough to discover
truth, and not courage enough to profess it: whose vanity made him
always writing; yet his writings ought to have cured his vanity,
as they were the most abject things in the world.

_Good Erasmus's honest mean_ was alternate time-serving. I never
had thought much about him, and now heartily despise him.

[Footnote 1: "_You prefer Lord Clarendon to Polybius._" It is hard
to understand this sentence.

Lord Clarendon did _not_ write a general history, but an account
of a single event, "The Great Rebellion."

It was Polybius who wrote a "Universal History," of which, however,
only five books have been preserved, the most interesting portion
of which is a narrative of Hannibal's invasion of Italy and march
over the Alps in the Second Punic War.]

[Footnote 2: Dr. Jortin was Archdeacon of London; and, among other
works, had recently published a life of the celebrated Erasmus,
the mention of whom by Pope, which Walpole presently quotes, is not
very unfairly interpreted by Walpole.]

When I speak my opinion to you, Sir, about what I dare say you care
as little for as I do, (for what is the merit of a mere man of
letters?)

it is but fit I should answer you as sincerely on a question about
which you are so good as to interest yourself.

That my father's life is likely to be written, I have no grounds
for believing. I mean I know nobody that thinks of it. For, myself,
I certainly shall not, for many reasons, which you must have the
patience to hear.

A reason to me myself is, that I think too highly of him, and too
meanly of myself, to presume I am equal to the task.

They who do not agree with me in the former part of my position,
will undoubtedly allow the latter part. In the next place, the
very truths that I should relate would be so much imputed to
partiality, that he would lose of his due praise by the suspicion
of my prejudice. In the next place, I was born too late in his
life to be acquainted with him in the active part of it.

Then I was at school, at the university, abroad, and returned not
till the last moments of his administration. What I know of him I
could only learn from his own mouth in the last three years of his
life; when, to my shame, I was so idle, and young, and thoughtless,
that I by no means profited of his leisure as I might have done;
and, indeed, I have too much impartiality in my nature to care, if
I could, to give the world a history, collected solely from the
person himself of whom I should write.

With the utmost veneration for his truth, I can easily conceive,
that a man who had lived a life of party, and who had undergone
such persecution from party, should have had greater bias than he
himself could be sensible of.

The last, and that a reason which must be admitted, if all the
others are not--his papers are lost. Between the confusion of
his affairs, and the indifference of my elder brother to things
of that sort, they were either lost, burnt, or what we rather
think, were stolen by a favourite servant of my brother, who proved
a great rogue, and was dismissed in my brother's life; and the
papers were not discovered to be missing till after my brother's
death.

Thus, Sir, I should want vouchers for many things I could say of
much importance. I have another personal reason that discourages
me from attempting this task, or any other, besides the great
reluctance that I have to being a voluminous author.

Though I am by no means the learned man you are so good as to call
me in compliment; though, on the contrary, nothing can be more
superficial than my knowledge, or more trifling than my reading,--yet,
I have so much strained my eyes, that it is often painful to me to
read even a newspaper by daylight.

In short, Sir, having led a very dissipated life, in all the
hurry of the world of pleasure, I scarce ever read but by candlelight,
after I have come home late at nights. As my eyes have never had
the least inflammation or humour, I am assured I may still recover
them by care and repose.

I own I prefer my eyes to anything I could ever read, much more to
anything I could write. However, after all I have said, perhaps I
may now and then, by degrees, throw together some short anecdotes
of my father's private life and particular story, and leave his
public history to more proper and more able hands, if such will
undertake it. Before I finish on this chapter, I can assure you
he did forgive my Lord Bolingbroke[1]--his nature was forgiving:
after all was over, and he had nothing to fear or disguise, I can
say with truth, that there were not _three_ men of whom he ever dropped
a word with rancour.

What I meant of the clergy not forgiving Lord Bolingbroke,
alluded not to his doctrines, but to the direct attack and war
he made on the whole body. And now, Sir, I will confess my own
weakness to you.
I do not think so highly of that writer, as I seem to do in my book;
but I thought it would be imputed to prejudice in me, if I
appeared to undervalue an author of whom so many persons of sense
still think highly. My being Sir Robert Walpole's son warped me
to praise, instead of censuring Lord Bolingbroke. With regard to
the Duke of Leeds,[2] I think you have misconstrued the decency of
my expression. I said, _Burnet_[3] _had treated him severely_;
that is, I chose that Burnet should say so, rather than myself. I
have never praised where my heart condemned. Little attentions,
perhaps, to worthy descendants, were excusable in a work of so
extensive a nature, and that approached so near to these times.

I may, perhaps, have an opportunity, at one day or other of showing
you some passages suppressed on these motives, which yet I do not
intend to destroy.

[Footnote 1: Sir R. Walpole was so far from having any personal
quarrel with Bolingbroke, that he took off so much of his outlawry
as banished him, though he would not allow him to take his seat
in the House of Peers.]
[Footnote 2: This celebrated statesman was originally Sir Thomas
Osborne.

On the dissolution of the Cabal Ministry he was raised to the
peerage as Earl of Danby, and was appointed Lord Treasurer. An
attempt to impeach him, which was prompted by Louis XIV., was
baffled by Charles. Under William III. he was appointed President
of the Council, being the recognised leader of the Tory section
of the Ministry; and in the course of the reign he was twice
promoted--first to be Marquis of Carmarthen, and subsequently to
be Duke of Leeds.]

[Footnote 3: Burnet, the Bishop of Salisbury, to whose "Memoirs
of His Own Time" all subsequent historians are greatly indebted.

He accompanied William to England as his chaplain.]
Crew,[1] Bishop of Durham, was as abject a tool as possible. I would
be very certain he is an author before I should think him worth
mentioning.
If ever you should touch on Lord Willoughby's sermon, I should be
obliged for a hint of it.

I actually have a printed copy of verses by his son, on the marriage
of the Princess Royal; but they are so ridiculously unlike measure,
and the man was so mad and so poor, that I determined not to mention
him.

Sankey was, but sadly delicate you know--had
no idea of the querulous complaining and fretfulness whose display
was reserved for her own family only.

To this Ned was so accustomed that it passed ever his head almost
unheeded; not so her constant allusions to his father. Wholly
unconscious of the agony which it inflicted upon the boy, Mrs.
Sankey was incessantly quoting his opinions or utterances.

"Ned, I do wish you would not fidget with your feet. You know your
dear father often told you of it;" or, "As your dear father used
to say, Ned;" until the boy in despair would throw down his book
and rush out of the room to calm himself by a run in the frosty
night air; while Mrs. Sankey would murmur to herself, "That boy's
temper gets worse and worse, and with my poor nerves how am I to
control him?"

Mr. Porson was very kind to him in those days. During that summer
holiday he had very frequently spent the evening at Captain Sankey's,
and had formed a pretty correct idea of the character of Ned's
mother. Thus when he saw that Ned, when he entered the school after
breakfast or dinner, had an anxious hunted look, and was clearly
in a state of high tension, he guessed he was having a bad time of
it at home.

Charlie had fast got over the shock of his father's death; children
quickly recover from a blow, and, though delicate, Charlie was of
a bright and gentle disposition, ready to be pleased at all times,
and not easily upset.

One morning when Ned came in from school looking pale and white,
gave random answers to questions, and even, to the astonishment
of the class, answered Mr. Porson himself snappishly, the master,
when school was over and the boys were leaving their places, said:

"Sankey, I want to have a few words with you in the study."

Ned followed his master with an air of indifference. He supposed
that he was going to be lectured for the way he had spoken, but as
he said to himself, "What did it matter! what did anything matter!"

Mr. Porson did not sit down on entering the room, but when Ned had
closed the door after him took a step forward and laid his hand on
his shoulder.

"My boy," he said, "what is it that is wrong with you? I fear that
you have trouble at home."

Ned stood silent, but the tears welled up into his eyes.

"It can't be helped, sir," he said in a choking voice, and then with
an attempt at gayety: "it will be all the same fifty years hence,
I suppose."

"That is a poor consolation, Ned," Mr. Porson rejoined. "Fifty
years is a long time to look forward to. Can't we do anything before
that?"

Ned was silent.

"I do not want you to tell me, Ned, anything that happens at home
--God forbid that I should pry into matters so sacred as relations
between a boy and a parent!--but I can see, my boy, that something
is wrong. You are not yourself. At first when you came back I
thought all was well with you; you were, as was natural, sad and
depressed, but I should not wish it otherwise. But of late a change
has come ever you; you are nervous and excited; you have gone down
in your class, not, I can see, because you have neglected your
work, but because you cannot bring your mind to bear upon it. Now
all this must have a cause. Perhaps a little advice on my part
might help you. We shall break up in a week, Ned, and I shall be
going away for a time. I should like to think before I went that
things were going on better with you."

"I don't want to say anything against my mother," Ned said in a
low voice. "She means kindly, sir; but, oh! it is so hard to bear.
She is always talking about father, not as you would talk, sir,
but just as if he were alive and might come in at any moment, and
it seems sometimes as if it would drive me out of my mind."

"No doubt it is trying, my boy," Mr. Porson said; "but you see natures
differ, and we must all bear with each other and make allowances.
Your mother's nature, as far as I have seen of her, is not a deep
one. She was very fond of your father, and she is fond of you; but
you know, just as still waters run deep, shallow waters are full
of ripples, and eddies, and currents. She has no idea that what
seems natural and right to her should jar upon you. You upon your
part can scarcely make sufficient allowance for her different
treatment of a subject which is to you sacred. I know how you miss
your father, but your mother must miss him still more. No man ever
more lovingly and patiently tended a woman than he did her so far
as lay in his power. She had not a wish ungratified. You have in
your work an employment which occupies your thoughts and prevents
them from turning constantly to one subject; she has nothing whatever
to take her thoughts from the past. It is better for her to speak
of him often than to brood over him in silence. Your tribute to
your father's memory is deep and silent sorrow, hers is frequent
allusions. Doubtless her way jars upon you; but, Ned, you are
younger than she, and it is easier for you to change. Why not try
and accept her method as being a part of her, and try, instead of
wincing every time that she touches the sore, to accustom yourself
to it. It may be hard at first, but it will be far easier in the
end."

Ned stood silent for a minute or two; then he said:

"I will try, sir. My father's last words to me were to be kind to
mother, and I have tried hard, and I will go on trying."

"That is right, my boy; and ask God to help you. We all have our
trials in this life, and this at present is yours; pray God to give
you strength to bear it."


CHAPTER VIII: NED IS SORELY TRIED


Among the many who called upon Mrs. Sankey after the death of her
husband was Mr. Mulready, the owner of a mill near Marsden. He was
one of the leading men in the place, although his mill was by no
means a large one. He took rank in the eyes of the little town with
men in a much larger way of business by means of a pushing manner
and a fluent tongue. He had come to be considered an authority upon
most subjects. He paid much attention to his dress, and drove the
fastest horse and the best got up gig in that part of the country;
but it was Mr. Mulready's manner which above all had raised him to
his present position in the esteem of the good people of Marsden. He
had the knack of adapting himself to the vein of those he addressed.

With the farmers who came into market he was bluff and cordial; with
the people in general he was genial and good tempered. At meetings
at which the county gentry were present he was quiet, businesslike,
and a trifle deferential, showing that he recognized the difference
between his position and theirs.

With ladies he was gay when they were gay, sympathetic when sympathy
was expected. With them he was even more popular than with the
men, for the latter, although they admired and somewhat envied his
varied acquirements, were apt in the intimacy of private conversation
to speak of him as a humbug.

There was one exception, however, to his general popularity. There
was no mill owner in the neighborhood more heartily detested by his
workpeople; but as these did not mingle with the genteel classes of
Marsden their opinion of Mr. Mulready went for nothing. The mill
owner was a man of forty-three or forty-four, although when dressed
in his tightly fitting brown coat with its short waist, its brass
buttons, and high collar, and with a low hat with narrow brim worn
well forward and coming down almost to the bridge of his nose, he
looked seven or eight years younger.

His hair was light, his trimly cut muttonchop whiskers were sandy,
he had a bright, fresh complexion, a large mouth, and good teeth,
which he always showed when he smiled, and in public he was always
smiling; his eyes were light in color, very close together, and had
a somewhat peculiar appearance. Indeed there were men who hinted
that he had a slight cast, but these were, no doubt, envious of
his popularity.

Mrs. Sankey had been flattered by his visit and manner; indeed it
could hardly have been otherwise, for he had expressed a sympathy
and deference which were very soothing to her.

"It is indeed kind of you to receive me," he had said. "I know,
of course, that it is not usual for a man who has the misfortune
to be unmarried to make a call upon a lady, but I could not help
myself. William Mulready is not a man to allow his feelings to
be sacrificed to the cold etiquette of the world. I had not the
pleasure of the acquaintance of that most brave and distinguished
officer your late husband. I had hoped that some day circumstances
might throw me in contact with him, but it was not for me, a humble
manufacturer, to force my acquaintance upon one socially my superior;
but, my dear madam, when I heard of that terrible accident, of
that noble self devotion, I said to myself, 'William Mulready, when
a proper and decent time elapses you must call upon the relict of
your late noble and distinguished townsman, and assure her of your
sympathy and admiration, even if she spurns you from the door.'"

"You could not think I should do that, Mr. Mulready," Mrs. Sankey
said. "It is most gratifying to me to receive this mark of sympathy
in my present sad position;" and she sighed deeply.

"You are good indeed to say so," Mr. Mulready said in a tone
of deep gratitude; "but I might have been sure that my motives at
least would not be misunderstood by a high bred and delicate lady
like yourself. I will not now trespass on your time, but hope that
I may be permitted to call again. Should there be anything in which
so humble an individual could be in the slightest degree useful to
you pray command my services. I know the responsibility which you
must feel at being left in charge of those two noble boys and your
charming little daughter must be well nigh overwhelming, and if you
would not think it presumption I would say that any poor advice or
opinion which I, who call myself in some degree a man of the world,
can give, will be always at your service."

"You are very good," Mrs. Sankey murmured. "It is indeed a
responsibility. My younger boy and girl are all that I could wish,
but the elder is already almost beyond me;" and by the shake of
her head she testified that her troubles on that score approached
martyrdom.

"Never fear, my dear madam," Mr. Mulready said heartily. "Boys will
be boys, and I doubt not that he will grow up everything that you
could desire. I may have heard that he was a little passionate.
There was a trifling affair between him and his schoolmaster, was
there not? But these things mend themselves, and doubtless all will
come well in time; and now I have the honor of wishing you good
morning."

"Charming manners!" Mrs. Sankey said to herself when her visitor had
left. "A little old fashioned, perhaps, but so kind and deferential.
He seemed to understand my feelings exactly."

That evening when they were at tea Mrs. Sankey mentioned the
agreeable visitor who had called in the afternoon.

"What! William Mulready!" Ned exclaimed; "Foxey, as his hands call
him. I have heard Bill speak of him often. His men hate him. They
say he is a regular tyrant. What impudence his coming here!"

"Ned, I am surprised at you," his mother said angrily. "I am sure
Mr. Mulready is nothing of the sort. He is a most kind and considerate
gentleman, and I will not allow you to repeat these things you hear
from the low companions whom your father permitted you to associate
with."

"Bill is not a low companion, mother," Ned exclaimed passionately.
"A better fellow never stood, and Foxey is not kind and considerate.
He is a brutal tyrant, and I am sure my father, if you will quote
his opinion, would not have had such a man inside his doors."

"Leave the room, Ned, this moment," his mother exclaimed, more angry
than he had ever seen her before. "I am ashamed of you speaking to
me in that way. You would not have dared to do it had your father
been alive."

Ned dashed down his scarcely begun bread and butter and flung himself
out of the room, and then out of the house, and it was some hours
before he returned. Then he went straight up to his mother's room.

"I beg your pardon, mother," he said quietly. "I am very sorry I
spoke as I did. I ought not to have done so."

"Very well," Mrs. Sankey said coldly; "then don't do it again,
Ned."

Without another word Ned went off to his books. He was grieved and
sore at heart. He had during his walk fought a hard battle with
himself, and had conquered. As his temper cooled down he had felt
that he had broken his promise, that he had not been kind to his
mother; felt, too, that her accusation was a true one--he would
not have dared to speak so to her had his father been alive.

"But it was so different then," he had said to himself as the tears
chased each other down his cheeks. "Father understood me, and cared
for me, and made allowances. It was worth while fighting against
one's temper just to have him put his hand on my shoulder and say,
'Well done, my boy.' Now it is so different. I will go on trying for
his sake; but I know it's no good. Do what I will, I can't please
her. It's my fault, I dare say, but I do try my best. I do, indeed,
father," he said, speaking out loud; "if you can hear me, I do,
indeed, try to be kind to mother, but she won't let me. I do try
to make allowances, that is, when I am not in a passion, and then
I go and spoil it all, like a beast, just as I did tonight.

"Anyhow," he said to himself as he turned his face homeward again,
"I will go and tell her I am sorry, and beg her pardon. I don't
suppose she will be nice, but I can't help that. It's my duty
anyhow, and I will try and not say anything against Foxey next time
she speaks of him."

The latter part of his resolution Ned found it very hard to
maintain, for Mr. Mulready became a not unfrequent visitor. He had
always some excuse for calling, either to bring in a basket of fresh
trout, some game, or hothouse fruit, for, as he said, he knew her
appetite was delicate and needed tempting, or some book newly issued
from the London press which he was sure she would appreciate.

After a short time Mrs. Sankey ceased to speak of these visits,
perhaps because she saw how Ned objected to the introduction of Mr.
Mulready's name, perhaps for some other reason, and a year passed
without Ned's being seriously ruffled on the subject.

Ned was now nearly sixteen. He had worked hard, and was the head
boy at Porson's. It had always been regarded as a fixed thing that
he should go into the army. As the son of an officer who had lost
his leg in the service it was thought that he would be able to
obtain a commission without difficulty, and Squire Simmonds, who
had been a kind friend since his father's death, had promised to
ask the lord lieutenant of the county to interest himself in the
matter, and had no doubt that the circumstances of Captain Sankey's
death would be considered as an addition to the claim of his services
in the army.

Captain Sankey had intended that Ned should have gone to a superior
school to finish his education, but the diminished income of the
family had put this out of the question, and the subject had never
been mooted after his death. Ned, however, felt that he was making
such good progress under Mr. Porson that he was well content to
remain where he was.

His struggle with his temper had gone on steadily, and he hoped he
had won a final victory over it. Mr. Porson had been unwearied in
his kindnesses, and often took Ned for an hour in the evening in
order to push him forward, and although he avoided talking about
his home life the boy felt that he could, in case of need, pour
out his heart to him; but, indeed, things had gone better at home.
Mrs. Sankey was just as indisposed as ever to take any share whatever
in the trouble of housekeeping, but as Abijah was perfectly capable
of keeping the house in order without her instructions things went
on smoothly and straightly in this respect.

In other matters home life was more pleasant than it had been. Mrs.
Sankey was less given to querulous complaining, more inclined to
see things in a cheerful light, and Ned especially noticed with
satisfaction that the references to his father which had so tried
him had become much less frequent of late.

One day in September, when his father had been dead just a year,
one of the town boys, a lad of about Ned's age, said to him as they
were walking home from school together:

"Well, Ned, I suppose I ought to congratulate you, although I don't
know whether you will see it in that light."

"What do you mean?" Ned said. "I don't know that anything has
happened on which I should be particularly congratulated, except
on having made the top score against the town last week."

"Oh! I don't mean that," the boy said.. "I mean about Mulready."

"What do you mean?" Ned said, stopping short and turning very white.

"Why," the lad said laughing, "all the town says he is going to
marry your mother."

Ned stood as if stupefied. Then he sprang upon his companion and
seized him by the throat.

"It's a lie," he shouted, shaking him furiously. "It's a lie I say,
Smithers, and you know it. I will kill you if you don't say it's
a lie."

With a great effort Smithers extricated himself from Ned's grasp.

"Don't choke a fellow," he said. "It may be a lie if you say it is,
but it is not my lie anyhow. People have been talking about it for
some time. They say he's been down there nearly every day. Didn't
you know it?"

"Know it?" Ned gasped. "I have not heard of his being in the house
for months, but I will soon find out the truth."

And without another word he dashed off at full speed up the street.
Panting and breathless he rushed into the house, and tore into the
room where his mother was sitting trifling with a piece of fancy
work.

"I do wish, Edward, you would not come into the room like a
whirlwind. You know how any sudden noise jars upon my nerves. Why,
what is the matter?" she broke off suddenly, his pale, set face
catching her eye, little accustomed as she was to pay any attention
to Ned's varying moods.

"Mother," he panted out, "people are saying an awful thing about
you, a wicked, abominable thing. I know, of course, it is not true,
but I want just to hear you say so, so that I can go out and tell
people they lie. How dare they say such things!"

"Why, what do you mean, Edward?" Mrs. Sankey said, almost frightened
at the boy's vehemence.

"Why, they say that you are going to marry that horrible man Mulready.
It is monstrous, isn't it? I think they ought to be prosecuted and
punished for such a wicked thing, and father only a year in his
grave."

Mrs. Sankey was frightened at Ned's passion. Ever since the matter
had first taken shape in her mind she had felt a certain uneasiness
as to what Ned would say of it, and had, since it was decided,
been putting off from day to day the telling of the news to him.
She had, in his absence, told herself over and over again that it
was no business of his, and that a boy had no right to as much as
question the actions of his mother; but somehow when he was present
she had always shrank from telling him. She now took refuge in her
usual defense--tears.

"It is shameful," she said, sobbing, as she held her handkerchief
to her eyes, "that a boy should speak in this way to his mother;
it is downright wicked."

"But I am not speaking to you, mother; I am speaking of other people
--the people who have invented this horrible lie--for it is a
lie, mother, isn't it? It is not possible it can be true?"

"It is true," Mrs. Sankey said, gaining courage from her anger; "it
is quite true. And you are a wicked and abominable boy to talk in
that way to me. Why shouldn't I marry again? Other people marry
again, and why shouldn't I? I am sure your poor father would never
have wished me to waste my life by remaining single, with nothing
to do but to look after you children. And it is shameful of you to
speak in that way of Mr. Mulready."

Ned stopped to hear no more. At her first words he had given a low,
gasping cry, as one who has received a terrible wound. The blood
flew to his head, the room swam round, and he seemed to feel the
veins in his temples swell almost to bursting. The subsequent words
of his mother fell unheeded on his ears, and turning round he went
slowly to the door, groping his way as one half asleep or stupefied
by a blow.

Mechanically he opened the door and went out into the street; his
cap was still on his head, but he neither thought of it one way or
the other.

Almost without knowing it he turned from the town and walked toward
the hills. Had any one met him by the way they would assuredly have
thought that the boy had been drinking, so strangely and unevenly
did he walk. His face was flushed almost purple, his eyes were
bloodshot; he swayed to and fro as he walked, sometimes pausing
altogether, sometimes hurrying along for a few steps. Passing a
field where the gate stood open he turned into it, kept on his way
for some twenty yards further, and then fell at full length on the
grass. There he lay unconscious for some hours, and it was not until
the evening dews were falling heavily that he sat up and looked
round.

For some time he neither knew where he was nor what had brought him
there. At last the remembrance of what had passed flashed across
him, and with a cry of "Father! father!" he threw himself at full
length again with his head on his arm; but this time tears came
to his relief, and for a long time he cried with a bitterness of
grief even greater than that which he had suffered at his father's
death.

The stars were shining brightly when he rose to his feet, his
clothes were soaked with dew, and he trembled with cold and weakness.

"What am I to do?" he said to himself; "what am I to do?"

He made his way back to the gate and leaned against it for some
time; then, having at last made up his mind, he turned his back on
the town and walked toward Varley, moving more slowly and wearily
than if he was at the end of a long and fatiguing day's walk. Slowly
he climbed the hill and made his way through the village till he
reached the Swintons' cottage. He tapped at the door with his hand,
and lifting the latch he opened the door a few inches.

"Bill, are you in?"

There was an exclamation of surprise.

"Why, surely, it's Maister Ned!" and Bill came to the door.

"Come out, Bill, I want to speak to you."

Much surprised at the low and subdued tone in which Ned spoke,
Bill snatched down his cap from the peg by the door and joined him
outside.

"What be't, Maister Ned? what be t' matter with thee? Has owt gone
wrong?"

Ned walked on without speaking. In his yearning for sympathy, in
his intense desire to impart the miserable news to some one who
would feel for him, he had come to his friend Bill. He had thought
first of going to Mr. Porson. But though his master would sympathize
with him he would not be able to feel as he did; he would no doubt
be shocked at hearing that his mother was so soon going to marry
again, but he would not be able to understand the special dislike
to Mr. Mulready, still less likely to encourage his passionate
resentment. Bill would, he knew, do both, for it was from him he
had learned how hated the mill owner was among his people.

But at present he could not speak. He gave a short wave of his hand
to show that he heard, but could not answer yet, and with his head
bent down made his way out through the end of the village on to
the moor--Bill following him, wondering and sympathetic, unable
to conjecture what had happened.

Presently, when they had left the houses far behind them, Ned
stopped.

"What be't, Maister Ned?" Bill again asked, laying his strong hand
upon Ned's shoulder; "tell oi what it be. Hast got in another row
with t' maister? If there be owt as oi can do, thou knowest well
as Bill Swinton be with thee heart and soul."

"I know, Bill--I know," Ned said in a broken voice, "but you can
do nothing; I can do nothing; no one can. But it's dreadful to think
of. It's worse than if I had killed twenty masters. They must
either go to North Wales, where they will probably all perish, or
to Scotland, with great loss.

We dread them no longer. We are threatened with great preparations
for a French invasion, but the coast is exceedingly guarded; and for
the people, the spirit against the rebels increases every day.

Though they have marched thus into the heart of the kingdom, there
has not been the least symptom of a rising, nor even in the great
towns of which they possessed themselves. They have got no recruits
since their first entry into England, excepting one gentleman in
Lancashire, one hundred and fifty common men, and two parsons, at
Manchester, and a physician from York.

But here in London, the aversion to them is amazing: on some thoughts
of the King's going to an encampment at Finchley,[1] the weavers
not only offered him a thousand men, but the whole body of the Law
formed themselves into a little army, under the command of Lord
Chief Justice Willes, and were to have done duty at St.

James's, to guard the royal family in the King's absence.

[Footnote 1: The troops which were being collected for the Duke of
Cumberland, as soon as he should arrive from the Continent, to
march with against the Pretender, were in the meantime encamped on
Finchley Common near London.

The march of the Guards to the camp is the subject of one of Hogarth's
best pictures.]
But the greatest demonstration of loyalty appeared on the prisoners
being brought to town from the Soleil prize: the young man is
certainly Mr.

Radcliffe's son; but the mob, persuaded of his being the youngest
Pretender, could scarcely be restrained from tearing him to pieces
all the way on the road, and at his arrival.

He said he had heard of English mobs, but could not conceive they
were so dreadful, and wished he had been shot at the battle of
Dettingen, where he had been engaged.

The father, whom they call Lord Derwentwater, said, on entering the
Tower, that he had never expected to arrive there alive.

For the young man, he must only be treated as a French captive; for
the father, it is sufficient to produce him at the Old Bailey, and
prove that he is the individual person condemned for the last
Rebellion, and so to Tyburn.

We begin to take up people, but it is with as much caution and
timidity as women of quality begin to pawn their jewels; we have
not ventured upon any great stone yet!

The Provost of Edinburgh is in custody of a messenger; and the other
day they seized an odd man, who goes by the name of Count St.
Germain. He has been here these two years, and will not tell
who he is, or whence, but professes that he does not go by his
right name.

He sings, plays on the violin wonderfully, composes, is mad, and
not very sensible.

He is called an Italian, a Spaniard, a Pole; a somebody that married
a great fortune in Mexico, and ran away with her jewels to
Constantinople; a priest, a fiddler, a vast nobleman.

The Prince of Wales has had unsatiated curiosity about him, but in
vain.

However, nothing has been made out against him;[1] he is released;
and, what convinces me that he is not a gentleman, stays here, and
talks of his being taken up for a spy.

[Footnote 1: In the beginning of the year 1755, on rumours of
a great armament at Brest, one Virette, a Swiss, who had been a
kind of toad-eater to this St. Germain, was denounced to Lord
Holdernesse for a spy; but Mr. Stanley going pretty surlily to his
lordship, on his suspecting a friend of his, Virette was declared
innocent, and the penitent secretary of state made him the _amende
honorable_ of a dinner in form.

About the same time, a spy of ours was seized at Brest, but, not
happening to be acquainted with Mr.

Stanley, was broken upon the wheel.--WALPOLE.]
I think these accounts, upon which you may depend, must raise your
spirits, and figure in Mr. Chute's loyal journal.--But you don't
get my letters: I have sent you eleven since I came to town; how
many of these have you received?

Adieu!

_BATTLE OF CULLODEN._
TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, _April_ 25, 1746.

You have bid me for some time to send you good news--well! I
think I will. How good would you have it? must it be a total victory
over the rebels; with not only the Boy, that is here, killed, but
the other, that is not here, too; their whole army put to the sword,
besides an infinite number of prisoners; all the Jacobite estates
in England confiscated, and all those in Scotland--what would you
have done with them?

--or could you be content with something much under this? how
much will you abate?
will you compound for Lord John Drummond, taken by accident? or
for three Presbyterian parsons, who have very poor livings, stoutly
refusing to pay a large contribution to the rebels? Come, I will
deal as well with you as I can, and for once, but not to make a
practice of it, will let you have a victory! My friend, Lord Bury,
arrived this morning from the Duke, though the news was got here
before him; for, with all our victory, it was not thought safe to
send him through the heart of Scotland; so he was shipped at
Inverness, within an hour after the Duke entered the town, kept
beating at sea five days, and then put on shore at North Berwick,
from whence he came post in less than three days to London; but
with a fever upon him, for which he had been twice blooded but the
day before the battle; but he is young, and high in spirits, and I
flatter myself will not suffer from this kindness of the Duke: the
King has immediately ordered him a thousand pound, and I hear will
make him his own aide-de-camp.

My dear Mr. Chute, I beg your pardon; I have forgot you have the gout,
and consequently not the same patience to wait for the battle, with
which I, knowing the particulars, postpone it.

On the 16th, the Duke, by forced marches, came up with the rebels,
a little on this side Inverness--by the way, the battle is not
christened yet; I only know that neither Prestonpans nor Falkirk
are to be godfathers.

The rebels, who fled from him after their victory, and durst not
attack him, when so much exposed to them at his passage of the
Spey, now stood him, they seven thousand, he ten. They broke through
Barril's regiment, and killed Lord Robert Kerr, a handsome young
gentleman, who was cut to pieces with above thirty wounds; but
they were soon repulsed, and fled; the whole engagement not lasting
above a quarter of an hour.
The young Pretender escaped; Mr. Conway says, he hears, wounded:
he certainly was in the rear. They have lost above a thousand men
in the engagement and pursuit; and six hundred were already
taken; among which latter are their French ambassador and Earl
Kilmarnock. The Duke of Perth and Lord Ogilvie are said to be slain;
Lord Elcho was in a salivation, and not there. Except Lord Robert
Kerr, we lost nobody of note: Sir Robert Rich's eldest son has
lost his hand, and about a hundred and thirty private men fell.
The defeat is reckoned total, and the dispersion general; and all
their artillery is taken. It is a brave young Duke! The town is
all blazing round me, as I write, with fireworks and illuminations:
I have some inclination to wrap up half a dozen sky-rockets, to
make you drink the Duke's health.

Mr. Dodington, on the first report, came out with a very pretty
illumination; so pretty, that I believe he had it by him, ready for
_any_ occasion....

_TRIAL OF THE REBEL LORDS BALMERINO AND KILMARNOCK._
TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, _Aug._ 1, 1746.

I am this moment come from the conclusion of the greatest and most
melancholy scene I ever yet saw!

You will easily guess it was the Trials of the rebel Lords. As it
was the most interesting sight, it was the most solemn and fine:
a coronation is a puppet-show, and all the splendour of it idle;
but this sight at once feasted one's eyes and engaged all one's
passions.

It began last Monday; three parts of Westminster Hall were inclosed
with galleries, and hung with scarlet; and the whole ceremony
was conducted with the most awful solemnity and decency, except
in the one point of leaving the prisoners at the bar, amidst the
idle curiosity of some crowd, and even with the witnesses who
had sworn against them, while the Lords adjourned to their own House
to consult.

No part of the royal family was there, which was a proper regard
to the unhappy men, who were become their victims. One hundred and
thirty-nine Lords were present, and made a noble sight on their
benches _frequent and full_!

The Chancellor [Hardwicke] was Lord High Steward; but though a most
comely personage with a fine voice, his behaviour was mean, curiously
searching for occasion to bow to the minister [Mr.

Pelham] that is no peer, and consequently applying to the other
ministers, in a manner, for their orders; and not even ready at
the ceremonial. To the prisoners he was peevish; and instead of
keeping up to the humane dignity of the law of England, whose
character it is to point out favour to the criminal, he crossed
them, and almost scolded at any offer they made towards defence.

I had armed myself with all the resolution I could, with the
thought of their crimes and of the danger past, and was assisted
by the sight of the Marquis of Lothian in weepers for his son who
fell at Culloden--but the first appearance of the prisoners shocked
me!

their behaviour melted me! Lord Kilmarnock and Lord Cromartie are
both past forty, but look younger. Lord Kilmarnock is tall and
slender, with an extreme fine person: his behaviour a most just
mixture between dignity and submission; if in anything to be
reprehended, a little affected, and his hair too exactly dressed
for a man in his situation; but when I say it is not to find fault
with him, but to show how little fault there was to be found.

Lord Cromartie is an indifferent figure, appeared much dejected,
and rather sullen: he dropped a few tears the first day, and
swooned as soon as he got back to his cell. For Lord Balmerino,
he is the most natural brave old fellow I ever saw: the highest
intrepidity, even to indifference. At the bar he behaved like a
soldier and a man; at the intervals of form, with carelessness
and humour. He pressed extremely to have his wife, his pretty
Peggy, with him in the Tower.

Lady Cromartie only sees her husband through the grate, not choosing
to be shut up with him, as she thinks she can serve him better
by her intercession without: she is big with child and very
handsome: so are their daughters.

When they were to be brought from the Tower in separate coaches,
there was some dispute in which the axe must go--old Balmerino
cried, "Come, come, put it with me." At the bar, he plays with
his fingers upon the axe, while he talks with the gentleman-gaoler;
and one day somebody coming up to listen, he took the blade and
held it like a fan between their faces.

During the trial, a little boy was near him, but not tall enough
to see; he made room for the child and placed him near himself.

When the trial began, the two Earls pleaded guilty; Balmerino not
guilty, saying he could prove his not being at the taking of the
castle of Carlisle, as was laid in the indictment.

Then the King's counsel opened, and Serjeant Skinner pronounced the
most absurd speech imaginable; and mentioned the Duke of Perth,
"who," said he, "I see by the papers is dead."

Then some witnesses were examined, whom afterwards the old hero shook
cordially by the hand.

The Lords withdrew to their House, and returning, demanded of the
judges, whether one point not being proved, though all the rest
were, the indictment was false? to which they unanimously answered
in the negative. Then the Lord High Steward asked the Peers
severally, whether Lord Balmerino was guilty!

All said, "guilty upon honour," and then adjourned, the prisoner
having begged pardon for giving them so much trouble. While the
Lords were withdrawn, the Solicitor-General Murray (brother of the
Pretender's minister) officiously and insolently went up to Lord
Balmerino, and asked him, how he could give the Lords so much
trouble, when his solicitor had informed him that his plea could
be of no use to him?

Balmerino asked the bystanders who this person was? and being
told he said, "Oh, Mr. Murray! I am extremely glad to see you; I
have been with several of your relations; the good lady, your
mother, was of great use to us at Perth."

Are not you charmed with this speech? how just it was!
As he went away, he said, "They call me Jacobite; I am no more a
Jacobite than any that tried me: but if the Great Mogul had set
up his standard, I should have followed it, for I could not starve."

The worst of his case is, that after the battle of Dumblain,
having a company in the Duke of Argyll's regiment, he deserted
with it to the rebels, and has since been pardoned.

Lord Kilmarnock is a Presbyterian, with four earldoms in him, but
so poor since Lord Wilmington's stopping a pension that my father
had given him, that he often wanted a dinner.

Lord Cromartie was receiver of the rents of the King's second son
in Scotland, which, it was understood, he should not account for;
and by that means had six-hundred a-year from the Government: Lord
Elibank, a very prating, impertinent Jacobite, was bound for him
in nine thousand pounds, for which the Duke is determined to sue
him.

When the Peers were going to vote, Lord Foley withdrew, as too well
a wisher; Lord Moray, as nephew of Lord Balmerino--and Lord Stair,--as,
I believe, uncle to his great-grandfather. Lord Windsor, very
affectedly, said, "I am sorry I must say, _guilty upon my
honour_." Lord Stamford would not answer to the name of _Henry_,
having been christened _Harry_--what a great way of thinking on such
an occasion! I was diverted too with old Norsa, the father of my
brother's concubine, an old Jew that kept a tavern; my brother
[Orford], as Auditor of the Exchequer, has a gallery along one
whole side of the court; I said, "I really feel for the prisoners!"
old Issachar replied, "Feel for them!
pray, if they had succeeded, what would have become of _all us_?"

When my Lady Townsend heard her husband vote, she said, "I always
knew _my_ Lord was _guilty_, but I never thought he would own it
_upon his honour_."

Lord Balmerino said, that one of his reasons for pleading _not
guilty_, was that so many ladies might not be disappointed of their
show.

On Wednesday they were again brought to Westminster Hall, to receive
sentence; and being asked what they had to say, Lord Kilmarnock,
with a very fine voice, read a very fine speech, confessing the
extent of his crime, but offering his principles as some
alleviation, having his eldest son (his second unluckily with him),
in the Duke's army, _fighting for the liberties of his country at
Culloden, where his unhappy father was in arms to destroy them_.
He insisted much on his tenderness to the English prisoners, which
some deny, and say that he was the man who proposed their being put
to death, when General Stapleton urged that _he_ was come to fight,
but not to butcher; and that if they acted any such barbarity, he
would leave them with all his men.

He very artfully mentioned Van Hoey's letter, and said how much
he would scorn to owe his life to such intercession.[1] Lord
Cromartie spoke much shorter, and so low, that he was not heard
but by those who sat very near him; but they prefer his speech to
the other.

He mentioned his misfortune in having drawn in his eldest son, who is
prisoner with him; and concluded with saying, "If no part of this
bitter cup must pass from me, not mine, O God, but thy will be done!"
If he had pleaded _not guilty_, there was ready to be produced
against him a paper signed with his own hand, for putting the English
prisoners to death.

[Footnote 1: In a subsequent letter Walpole attributes Lord Kilmarnock's
complicity in the rebellion partly to the influence of his mother,
the Countess of Errol, and partly to his extreme poverty. He says:
"I don't know whether I told you that the man at the tennis-court
protests that he has known him dine with the man that sells
pamphlets at Storey's Gate; 'and,' says he, 'he would often have
been glad if I would have taken him home to dinner.'

He was certainly so poor, that in one of his wife's intercepted
letters she tells him she has plagued their steward for a fortnight
for money, and can get but three shillings." One cannot help
remembering, _Ibit eo quo vis qui zonam perdidit_. And afterwards,
in relating his execution, he mentions a report that the Duke of
Cumberland charging him (certainly on misinformation) with having
promoted the adoption of "a resolution taken the day before the
battle of Culloden" to put the English prisoners to death, "decided
this unhappy man's fate" by preventing his obtaining a pardon.]

Lord Leicester went up to the Duke of Newcastle, and said, "I never
heard so great an orator as Lord Kilmarnock? if I was your grace
I would pardon him, and make him _paymaster_."[1]
[Footnote 1: "_I would make him paymaster._" The paymaster at this
time was Mr. Pitt.]
That morning a paper had been sent to the lieutenant of the Tower
for the prisoners; he gave it to Lord Cornwallis, the governor, who
carried it to the House of Lords.

It was a plea for the prisoners, objecting that the late act for
regulating the trials of rebels did not take place till after their
crime was committed.

The Lords very tenderly and rightly sent this plea to them, of which,
as you have seen, the two Earls did not make use; but old Balmerino
did, and demanded council on it. The High Steward, almost in a passion,
told him, that when he had been offered council, he did not accept
it.

Do but think on the ridicule of sending them the plea, and then
denying them council on it!

The Duke of Newcastle, who never let slip an opportunity of being
absurd, took it up as a ministerial point, in defence of his
creature the Chancellor [Hardwicke]; but Lord Granville moved, according
to order, to adjourn to debate in the chamber of Parliament,
where the Duke of Bedford and many others spoke warmly for their
having council; and it was granted. I said _their_, because the
plea would have saved them all, and affected nine rebels who had
been hanged that very morning; particularly one Morgan, a
poetical lawyer. Lord Balmerino asked for Forester and Wilbraham;
the latter a very able lawyer in the House of Commons, who, the
Chancellor said privately, he was sure would as soon be hanged as
plead such a cause.

But he came as council to-day (the third day), when Lord Balmerino
gave up his plea as invalid, and submitted, without any speech.
The High Steward [Hardwicke] then made his, very long and very poor,
with only one or two good passages; and then pronounced sentence!

Great intercession is made for the two Earls: Duke Hamilton, who
has never been at Court, designs to kiss the King's hand, and ask
Lord Kilmarnock's life. The King is much inclined to some mercy; but
the Duke, who has not so much of Caesar after a victory, as in
gaining it, is for the utmost severity.

It is worse than useless to kick against the
pricks. Any show of hostility on your part will only cause unhappiness,
perhaps between your mother' and him--almost certainly between
you and her. In this world, my boy, we have all our trials. Some
are very heavy ones. This is yours. Happily, so far as you are
concerned, you need only look forward to its lasting eighteen months
or so. In that time you may hope to get your commission; and as
the marriage can hardly take place for some little time to come,
you will have but a year or so to bear it."

"I don't know, sir," Ned said gloomily; "everything seems upset
now. I don't seem to know what I had best do."

"I am sure at present, Ned," Mr. Porson said kindly--for he saw
that the boy was just now in no mood for argument--"the best is
to try and think as little of it as possible. Make every allowance
for your mother; as you know, my boy, I would not speak disrespectfully
to you of her on any account; but she is not strong minded. She has
always been accustomed to lean upon some one, and the need of some
one to lean on is imperative with her. Had you been a few years
older, and had you been staying at home, it is probable that you
might have taken your place as her support and strength. As it is,
it was almost inevitable that something of this sort would happen.

"But you know, Ned, where to look for strength and support. You
have fought one hard battle, my boy, and have well nigh conquered;
now you have another before you. Seek for strength, my boy, where
you will assuredly find it, and remember that this discipline is
doubtless sent you for your good, and that it will be a preparation
for you for the struggle in after life. I don't want you to be
a thoughtless, careless young officer, but a man earnest in doing
his duty, and you cannot but see that these two trials must have
a great effect in forming your character. Remember, Ned, that if
the effect be not for good, it will certainly be for evil."

"I will try, sir," Ned said; "but I know it is easy to make good
resolutions, and how it will be when he is in the house as master
I can't trust myself even to think."

"Well, let us hope the best, Ned," Mr. Porson said kindly; "things
may turn out better than you fear."

Then seeing that further talking would be useless now, he shook
Ned's hand and let him go.

The next three or four months passed slowly and heavily. Ned went
about his work again quietly and doggedly; but his high spirits
seemed gone. His mother's engagement with Mr. Mulready had been
openly announced, directly after he had first heard of it. Charlie
had, to Ned's secret indignation, taken it quietly. He knew little
of Mr. Mulready, who had, whenever he saw him, spoken kindly to him,
and who now made him frequent presents of books and other things
dear to schoolboys. Little Lucy's liking he had, however, failed
to gain, although in his frequent visits he had spared no pains to
do so, seldom coming without bringing with him cakes or papers of
sweets. Lucy accepted the presents, but did not love the donor,
and confided to Abijah that his teeth were exactly like those of
the wolf who ate Little Red Riding Hood.

Ned found much more comfort in her society during those dull days
than in Charlie's. He had the good sense, however, never to encourage
her in her expressions of dislike to Mr. Mulready, and even did
his best to combat her impression, knowing how essential it was
for her to get on well with him. Ned himself did not often see
Mr. Mulready during that time. The first time that they met, Ned
had, on his return from school, gone straight up into the drawing
room, not knowing that Mr. Mulready was there. On opening the door
and seeing him he paused suddenly for a moment and then advanced.
For a moment neither of them spoke, then Mr. Mulready said in his
frankest manner:

"Ned, you have heard I am going to marry your mother. I don't
suppose you quite like it; it wouldn't be natural if you did; I know
I shouldn't if I were in your place. Still you know your disliking
it won't alter it, and I hope we shall get on well together. Give
me your hand, my lad, you won't find me a bad sort of fellow."

"I hope not," Ned said quietly, taking Mr. Mulready's hand and
continuing to hold it while he went on: "I don't pretend I like
it, and I know it makes no difference whether I do or not; the
principal point is, that my mother should be happy, and if you
make her happy I have no doubt we shall, as you say, get on well
together; if you don't, we shan't."

There was no mistaking the threat conveyed in Ned's steady tones,
and Mr. Mulready, as Ned dropped his hand, felt that he should have
more trouble with the boy than he had expected. He gave a forced
laugh.

"One would think, Ned, that you thought it likely I was going to
be unkind to your mother."

"No," Ned said quietly, "I don't want to think about it one way or
the other, only I promised my father I would be kind to my mother;
that means that I would look after her, and I mean to.

"Well, mother," he said in his usual tone, turning to Mrs. Sankey,
"and how are you this morning?"

"I was feeling better, Ned," she said sharply; "but your unpleasant
way of talking, and your nonsense about taking care of me, have
made me feel quite ill again. Somehow you always seem to shake my
nerves. You never seem to me like other boys. One would think I
was a child instead of being your mother. I thought after what you
said to me that you were going to behave nicely."

"I am trying to behave nicely," Ned said. "I am sure I meant quite
nicely, just as Mr. Mulready does; I think he understands me."

"I don't understand that boy," Mrs. Sankey said plaintively when
Ned had left the room, "and I never have understood him. He was
dreadfully spoiled when he was in India, as I have often told you;
for in my weak state of health I was not equal to looking after him,
and his poor father was sadly overindulgent. But he has certainly
been much better as to his temper lately, and I do hope, William,
that he is not going to cause trouble."

"Oh, no!" Mr. Mulready said lightly, "he will not cause trouble;
I have no doubt we shall get on well together. Boys will be boys,
you know; I have been one myself, and of course they look upon
stepfathers as natural enemies; but in this case, you see, we shall
not have to put up with each other long, as he will be getting his
commission in a year or so. Don't trouble yourself about it, love;
in your state of health you ought really not to worry yourself, and
worry, you know, spoils the eyes and the complexion, and I cannot
allow that, for you will soon be my property now."

The wedding was fixed for March. It was to be perfectly quiet, as
Mrs. Sankey would, up to the day, be still in mourning. A month
before the time Ned noticed that his mother was more uncertain in
her temper than usual, and Abijah confided to him in secret that
she thought things were not going on smoothly between the engaged
couple.

Nor were they. Mr. Mulready had discovered, to his surprise, that,
indolent and silly as Mrs. Sankey was in many respects, she was
not altogether a fool, and was keen enough where her own interests
were concerned. He had suggested something about settlements, hoping
that she would at once say that these were wholly unnecessary; but
to his surprise she replied in a manner which showed that she had
already thought the matter over, and had very fixed ideas on the
subject.

"Of course," she said, "that will be necessary. I know nothing about
business, but it was done before, and my poor husband insisted that
my little fortune should be settled so as to be entirely at my own
disposal."

But this by no means suited Mr. Mulready's views. Hitherto want of
capital had prevented his introducing the new machinery into his
mills, and the competition with the firms which had already adopted
it was injuring him seriously, and he had reckoned confidently upon
the use of Mrs. Sankey's four thousand pounds. Although he kept his
temper admirably under the circumstances, he gave her distinctly
to understand, in the pleasantest way, that an arrangement which
was most admirably suitable in every respect in the case of a lady
marrying an officer in the army, to whom her capital could be of
no possible advantage, was altogether unsuitable in the case of a
manufacturer.

Now if, as is very likely, you should through inadvertence change
hats with a master of a Dutch smack, Offley will be upon the watch,
will conclude you took your pattern from M. de Bareil, and in
a week's time we shall all be equipped like Dutch skippers. You
see I speak very disinterestedly; for, as I never wear a hat myself,
it is indifferent to me what sort of hat I don't wear. Adieu! I
hope nothing in this letter, if it is opened, will affect _the
conferences_, nor hasten our rupture with Holland.

Lest it should, I send it to Lord Holdernesse's office; concluding,
like Lady Betty Waldegrave, that the Government never suspect what
they send under their own covers.

_ROBERTSON'S "HISTORY OF SCOTLAND"--COMPARISON OF RAMSAY AND REYNOLDS
AS PORTRAIT-PAINTERS--SIR DAVID'S "HISTORY OF THE GOWRIE CONSPIRACY."_

TO SIR DAVID DALRYMPLE.

STRAWBERRY HILL, _Feb._ 25, 1759.

I think, Sir, I have perceived enough of the amiable benignity of
your mind, to be sure that you will like to hear the praises of your
friend.[1] Indeed, there is but one opinion about Mr. Robertson's
"History [of Scotland]." I don't remember any other work that ever
met universal approbation. Since the Romans and the Greeks, who
have _now_ an exclusive charter for being the best writers in
every kind, he is the historian that pleases me best; and though
what he has been so indulgent as to say of me ought to shut my
mouth, I own I have been unmeasured in my commendations.

I have forfeited my own modesty rather than not do justice to him. I
did send him my opinion some time ago, and hope he received it. I
can add, with the strictest truth, that he is regarded here
as one of the greatest men that this island has produced. I say
_island_, but you know, Sir, that I am disposed to say
_Scotland_. I have discovered another very agreeable writer among
your countrymen, and in a profession where I did not look for an
author; it is Mr. Ramsay, the painter, whose pieces being
anonymous, have been overlooked. He has a great deal of genuine wit,
and a very just manner of reasoning. In his own walk, he has
great merit. He and Mr. Reynolds are our favourite painters, and
two of the very best we ever had.

Indeed, the number of good has been very small, considering the numbers
there are. A very few years ago there were computed two thousand
portrait-painters in London; I do not exaggerate the computation,
but diminish it; though I think it must have been exaggerated. Mr.
Reynolds and Mr. Ramsay can scarce be rivals; their manners are so
different. The former is bold, and has a kind of tempestuous
colouring, yet with dignity and grace; the latter is all delicacy.
Mr. Reynolds seldom succeeds in women; Mr. Ramsay is formed to
paint them.

[Footnote 1: Sir David was himself a historical writer of some
importance.

Macaulay was greatly indebted to his "Memoirs of Great Britain and
Ireland from the Restoration to the Battle of La Hogue." The
secret history and object of the strange attempt on James VI.

(afterwards James I. of England) have been discussed by many
writers, but without any of them succeeding in any very clear or
certain elucidation of the transaction.]
I fear I neglected, Sir, to thank you for your present of the history
of the "Conspiracy of the Gowries"; but I shall never forget all the
obligations I have to you. I don't doubt but in Scotland you
approve what is liked here almost as much as Mr. Robertson's History;
I mean the marriage of Colonel Campbell and the Duchess of Hamilton.
If her fortune is singular, so is her merit. Such uncommon noise
as her beauty made has not at all impaired the modesty of her
behaviour. Adieu!

_WRITERS OF HISTORY: GOODALL, HUME, ROBERTSON--QUEEN CHRISTINA._
TO SIR DAVID DALRYMPLE.

STRAWBERRY HILL, _July_ 11, 1759.

You will repent, Sir, I fear, having drawn such a correspondent
upon yourself. An author flattered and encouraged is not easily
shaken off again; but if the interests of my book did not engage
me to trouble you, while you are so good as to write me the most
entertaining letters in the world, it is very natural for me to lay
snares to inveigle more of them.

However, Sir, excuse me this once, and I will be more modest for
the future in trespassing on your kindness. Yet, before I break out
on my new wants, it will be but decent, Sir, to answer some
particulars of your letter.

I have lately read Mr. Goodall's[1] book. There is certainly ingenuity
in parts of his defence; but I believe one seldom thinks a defence
_ingenious_ without meaning that it is unsatisfactory.

His work left me fully convinced of what he endeavoured to
disprove; and showed me, that the piece you mention is not the
only one that he has written against moderation.

[Footnote 1: Mr. Goodall had published an Essay on the letters put
forward as written by Queen Mary to Bothwell, branding them as
forgeries. The question of their genuineness has been examined
with great acuteness by more than one subsequent writer, and the
arguments against their genuineness are certainly very strong.]

I have lately got Lord Cromerty's "Vindication of the legitimacy
of King Robert [the Third]," and his "Synopsis Apocalyptica," and
thank you much, Sir, for the notice of any of his pieces.

But if you expect that his works should lessen my esteem for the
writers of Scotland, you will please to recollect, that the letter
which paints Lord Cromerty's pieces in so ridiculous a light, is
more than a counterbalance in favour of the writers of your country;
and of all men living, Sir, you are the last who will destroy my
partiality for Scotland.

There is another point, Sir, on which, with all your address, you
will persuade me as little. Can I think that we want writers of
history while Mr. Hume and Mr.

Robertson are living? It is a truth, and not a compliment, that I
never heard objections made to Mr. Hume's History without endeavouring
to convince the persons who found fault with it, of its great
merit and beauty; and for what I saw of Mr. Robertson's work, it is
one of the purest styles, and of the greatest impartiality, that I
ever read.

It is impossible for me to recommend a subject to him; because
I cannot judge of what materials he can obtain. His present performance
will undoubtedly make him so well known and esteemed, that he will
have credit to obtain many new lights for a future history; but
surely those relating to his own country will always lie most open
to him.

This is much my way of thinking with regard to myself. Though the
Life of Christina[1] is a pleasing and a most uncommon subject,
yet, totally unacquainted as I am with Sweden and its language,
how could I flatter myself with saying anything new of her? And
when original letters and authentic papers shall hereafter appear,
may not they contradict half one should relate on the authority
of what is already published? for though Memoirs _written_ nearest
to the time are likely to be the truest, those _published_ nearest
to it are generally the falsest.

[Footnote 1: Queen Christina of Sweden was the daughter and heiress of
the great Gustavus Adolphus. After a time she abdicated the throne
and lived for some time in Paris, where she acted in one respect
as if still possessed of royal authority, actually causing her
equerry, Monaldeschi, to be hung in one of her sitting-rooms.]

But, indeed, Sir, I am now making you only civil excuses; the
real one is, I have no kind of intention of continuing to write. I
could not expect to succeed again with so much luck,--indeed, I think
it so,--as I have done; it would mortify me more now, after a little
success, to be despised, than it would have done before; and if
I could please as much as I should wish to do, I think one
should dread being a voluminous author. My own idleness, too, bids
me desist. If I continued, I should certainly take more pains
than I did in my Catalogue; the trouble would not only be more
than I care to encounter, but would probably destroy what I believe
the only merit of my last work, the ease.

If I could incite you to tread in steps which I perceive you don't
condemn, and for which it is evident you are so well qualified,
from your knowledge, the grace, facility, and humour of your expression
and manner, I shall have done a real service, where I expected
at best to amuse.

_THE BATTLE OF MINDEN--LORD G. SACKVILLE._

TO THE HON. H.S. CONWAY.

ARLINGTON STREET, _Aug._ 14, 1759.

I am here in the most unpleasant way in the world, attending poor
Mrs.

Leneve's death-bed, a spectator of all the horrors of tedious suffering
and clear sense, and with no one soul to speak to--but I will not
tire you with a description of what has quite worn me out.

Probably by this time you have seen the Duke of Richmond or Fitzroy--but
lest you should not, I will tell you all I can learn, and a wonderful
history it is. Admiral Byng was not more unpopular than Lord George
Sackville.[1] I should scruple repeating his story if Betty and
the waiters at Arthur's did not talk of it publicly, and thrust
Prince Ferdinand's orders into one's hand.

[Footnote 1: Lord George was brought to court-martial for disobedience
of orders, and most deservedly cashiered--a sentence which was,
not very becomingly, oveilooked some years afterwards, when, having
changed his name to Germaine on succeeding to a large fortune, and
having become a member of the House of Commons, he was made a
Secretary of State by Lord North.]
You have heard, I suppose, of the violent animosities that have
reigned for the whole campaign between him and Lord Granby--in
which some other warm persons have been very warm too.

In the heat of the battle, the Prince, finding thirty-six squadrons
of French coming down upon our army, sent Ligonier to order our
thirty-two squadrons, under Lord George, to advance. During that
transaction, the French appeared to waver; and Prince Ferdinand,
willing, as it is supposed, to give the honour to the British horse
of terminating the day, sent Fitzroy to bid Lord George bring up
only the British cavalry. Ligonier had but just delivered his message,
when Fitzroy came with his.--Lord George said, "This can't be
so--would he have me break the line?

here is some mistake." Fitzroy replied, he had not argued upon the
orders, but those were the orders. "Well!" said Lord George, "but
I want a guide." Fitzroy said, he would be his guide. Lord George,
"Where is the Prince?" Fitzroy, "I left him at the head of the
left wing, I don't know where he is now." Lord George said he would
go seek him, and have this explained.
Smith then asked Fitzroy to repeat the orders to him; which being
done, Smith went and whispered Lord George, who says he then bid
Smith carry up the cavalry.

Smith is come, and says he is ready to answer anybody any question.
Lord George says, Prince Ferdinand's behaviour to him has been most
infamous, has asked leave to resign his command, and to come over,
which is granted.

Prince Ferdinand's behaviour is summed up in the enclosed extraordinary
paper: which you will doubt as I did, but which is certainly
genuine. I doubted, because, in the military, I thought direct
disobedience of orders was punished with an immediate arrest,
and because the last paragraph seemed to me very foolish. The
going out of the way to compliment Lord Granby with what he would have
done, seems to take off a little from the compliments paid to
those that have done something; but, in short, Prince Ferdinand or
Lord George, one of them, is most outrageously in the wrong, and
the latter has much the least chance of being thought in the right.

The particulars I tell you, I collected from the most _accurate_
authorities.

--I make no comments on Lord George, it would look like a little
dirty court to you; and the best compliment I can make you, is to
think, as I do, that you will be the last man to enjoy this revenge.

You will be sorry for poor M'Kinsey and Lady Betty, who have lost
their only child at Turin.

Adieu!

_ADMIRAL BOSCAWEN'S VICTORY--DEFEAT OF THE KING OF PRUSSIA--LORD
G.
SACKVILLE._
TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, _Sept._ 13, 1759.

With your unathletic constitution I think you will have a greater
weight of glory to represent than you can bear.

You will be as _épuisé_ as Princess Craon with all the triumphs
over Niagara, Ticonderoga, Crown-point, and such a parcel of long
names.

You will ruin yourself in French horns, to exceed those of Marshal
Botta, who has certainly found out a pleasant way of announcing
victories.

Besides, _all_ the West Indies, which we have taken by a panic,
there is Admiral Boscawen has demolished the Toulon squadron, and
has made _you_ Viceroy of the Mediterranean.

I really believe the French will come hither now, for they can be
safe nowhere else.

If the King of Prussia should be totally undone in Germany,[1] we
can afford to give him an appanage, as a younger son of England,
of some hundred thousand miles on the Ohio.

Sure universal monarchy was never so put to shame as that of France!
What a figure do they make! They seem to have no ministers, no
generals, no soldiers! If anything could be more ridiculous than
their behaviour in the field, it would be in the cabinet! Their
invasion appears not to have been designed against us, but
against their own people, who, they fear, will mutiny, and to quiet
whom they disperse expresses, with accounts of the progress of their
arms in England.

They actually have established posts, to whom people are directed
to send their letters for their friends _in England_. If, therefore,
you hear that the French have established themselves at Exeter or
at Norwich, don't be alarmed, nor undeceive the poor women who
are writing to their husbands for English baubles.

[Footnote 1: Frederic the Great had sustained a severe defeat at
Hochkirch in October, 1758, and a still more terrible one in August
of this year from Marshals Laudon and Soltikof at Kunersdorf.

It seemed so irreparable that for a moment he even contemplated
putting an end to his life; but he was saved from the worst
consequences of the blow by jealousies which sprang up between the
Austrian and Russian commanders, and preventing them from profiting
by their victory as they might have done.]

We have lost another Princess, Lady Elizabeth.[1] She died of an
inflammation in her bowels in two days. Her figure was so very
unfortunate, that it would have been difficult for her to be
happy, but her parts and application were extraordinary. I saw her
act in "Cato" at eight years old, (when she could not stand alone,
but was forced to lean against the side-scene,) better than any of
her brothers and sisters.

She had been so unhealthy, that at that age she had not been taught
to read, but had learned the part of Lucia by hearing the others
study their parts. She went to her father and mother, and begged
she might act.

They put her off as gently as they could--she desired leave
to repeat her part, and when she did, it was with so much sense,
that there was no denying her.

[Footnote 1: Second daughter of Frederick, Prince of
Wales.--WALPOLE.]
I receive yours of August 25.

To all your alarms for the King of Prussia I subscribe.

With little Brandenburgh he could not exhaust all the forces of
Bohemia, Hungary, Austria, Muscovy, Siberia, Tartary, Sweden,
&c., &c., &c.--but not to politicize too much, I believe the
world will come to be fought for somewhere between the North of
Germany and the back of Canada, between Count Daun and Sir William
Johnson.[1]
[Footnote 1: Our General in America--WALPOLE.]
You guessed right about the King of Spain; he is dead, and the
Queen Dowager may once more have an opportunity of embroiling
the little of Europe that remains unembroiled.

Thank you, my dear Sir, for the Herculaneum and Caserta that you
are sending me. I wish the watch may arrive safe, to show you that
I am not insensible to all your attentions for me, but endeavour, at
a great distance, to imitate you in the execution of commissions.

I would keep this letter back for a post, that I might have but one
trouble of sending you Quebec too; but when one has taken so many
places, it is not worth while to wait for one more.

Lord George Sackville, the hero of all conversation, if one can be so
for not being a hero, is arrived. He immediately applied for a
Court-Martial, but was told it was impossible now, as the officers
necessary are in Germany.

This was in writing from Lord Holdernesse--but Lord Ligonier in
words was more squab--"If he wanted a Court-Martial, he might go
seek it in Germany." All that could be taken from him, is, his
regiment, above two thousand pounds a year: commander in Germany
at ten pounds a day, between three and four thousand pounds:
lieutenant-general of the ordnance, one thousand five hundred
pounds: a fort, three hundred pounds. He remains with a patent place
in Ireland of one thousand two hundred pounds, and about two
thousand pounds a year of his own and wife's.

With his parts and ambition it cannot end here; he calls himself
ruined, but when the Parliament meets, he will probably attempt
some sort of revenge.

They attribute, I don't know with what grounds, a sensible kind
of plan to the French; that De la Clue was to have pushed for
Ireland, Thurot for Scotland, and the Brest fleet for England--but
before they lay such great plans, they should take care of proper
persons to execute them.[1]
[Footnote 1: De la Clue and the French were this year making unusual
efforts to establish a naval superiority over us, which they never
had done, and never will do.

As is mentioned in this letter, one powerful fleet was placed under
De la Clue, another under Conflans, and a strong squadron under
Commodore Thurot.

De la Clue, however, for many weeks kept close in Toulon, resisting
every endeavour of Boscawen to tempt him out, till the English admiral
was compelled to retire to Gibraltar for the repair of some of his
ships.

De la Clue, not knowing which way he had gone, thought he could steal
through the Straits to join Conflans, according to his original
orders. But Boscawen caught him off Cape Lagos, and gave him a
decisive defeat, capturing five sail of the line, and among them
the flagship _L'Océan_ (80). Before the end of the year Hawke
almost destroyed the fleet of Conflans, capturing five and driving
the rest on shore; while Thurot, who at first had a gleam of
success, making one or two descents on the northern coast of Ireland,
and even capturing Carrickfergus, had, in the end, worse fortune
than either of his superior officers, being overtaken at the mouth
of Belfast Lough by Captain Elliott with a squadron of nearly equal
force, when the whole of the French squadron was taken and he
himself was killed (the Editor's "History of the British Navy," c.
12).]
I cannot help smiling at the great objects of our letters. We never
converse on a less topic than a kingdom.

We are a kind of citizens of the world, and battles and revolutions
are the common incidents of our neighbourhood. But that is and
must be the case of distant correspondences: Kings and Empresses
that we never saw, are the only persons we can be acquainted
with in common. We can have no more familiarity than the _Daily
Advertiser_ would have if it wrote to the _Florentine Gazette_.
Adieu! My compliments to any monarch that lives within five hundred
miles of you.

_A YEAR OF TRIUMPHS._
TO GEORGE MONTAGU, ESQ.

STRAWBERRY HILL, _Oct._ 21, 1759.

Your pictures shall be sent as soon as any of us go to London, but
I think that will not be till the Parliament meets. Can we easily
leave the remains of such a year as this? It is still all gold.[1]
I have not dined or gone to bed by a fire till the day before
yesterday. Instead of the glorious and ever-memorable year 1759,
as the newspapers call it, I call it this ever-warm and victorious
year. We have not had more conquest than fine weather: one would
think we had plundered East and West Indies of sunshine. Our bells
are worn threadbare with ringing for victories. I believe it
will require ten votes of the House of Commons before people will
believe it is the Duke of Newcastle that has done this, and not
Mr. Pitt. One thing is very fatiguing--all the world is made
knights or generals. Adieu! I don't know a word of news less
than the conquest of America. Adieu! yours ever.

[Footnote 1: The immediate cause of this exultation was the battle
(September 14th) and subsequent capture of Quebec.

On the other side of the world Colonel Forde had inflicted severe
defeats on the French and Dutch, and had taken Masulipatam; and
besides these triumphs there were our naval successes mentioned in
the last letter, and the battle of Minden.]
P.S.--You shall hear from me again if we take Mexico or China
before Christmas.

2nd P.S.--I had sealed my letter, but break it open again, having
forgot to tell you that Mr.

Cowslade has the pictures of Lord and Lady Cutts, and is willing
to sell them.

_FRENCH BANKRUPTCY--FRENCH EPIGRAM._

TO GEORGE MONTAGU, ESQ.

ARLINGTON STREET, _Nov._ 8, 1759.

Your pictures will set out on Saturday; I give you notice, that you
may inquire for them.

I did not intend to be here these three days, but my Lord Bath
taking the trouble to send a man and horse to ask me to dinner
yesterday, I did not know how to refuse; and besides, as Mr.

Bentley said to me, "you know he was an old friend of your father."

The town is empty, but is coming to dress itself for Saturday. My
Lady Coventry showed George Selwyn her clothes; they are blue, with
spots of silver, of the size of a shilling, and a silver trimming,
and cost--my lord will know what. She asked George how he liked
them; he replied, "Why, you will be change for a guinea."
I find nothing talked of but the French bankruptcy;[1] Sir Robert
Brown, I hear--and am glad to hear--will be a great sufferer. They
put gravely into the article of bankrupts in the newspaper, "Louis
le Petit, of the city of Paris, peace-breaker, dealer, and chapman;"
it would have been still better if they had said, "Louis Bourbon
of petty France.""You know, my boy, how thoroughly I have your interest at heart.
If you had other friends whom you could consult I would rather have
given you no advice, for there is no more serious matter than to
say anything which might influence the career of a young fellow just
starting in life. Terrible harm often results from well intentioned
advice or opinions carelessly expressed to young men by their elders;
it is a matter which few men are sufficiently careful about; but
as I know that you have no friends to consult, Ned, and as I regard
you with more than interest, I may say with affection, I think it
would be well for you to tell me all that there is in your mind
before you take a step which may wreck your whole life.

"I have been waiting for some months in hopes that you would open
your mind to me, for I have seen that you were unhappy; but it was
not for me to force your confidence."

"I don't know that there's much to tell," Ned said wearily. "Everything has
happened just as it was certain it would do. Mulready is a brute;
he ill treats my mother, he ill treats Charlie and Lucy, and he
would ill treat me if he dared."

"All this is bad, Ned," Mr. Porson said gravely; "but of course
much depends upon the amount of his ill treatment. I assume that
he does not actively ill treat your mother."

"No," Ned said with an angry look in his face; "and he'd better
not."

"Yes, Ned, he had better not, no doubt," Mr. Porson said soothingly;
"but what I want to know, what it is essential I should know if
I am to give you any advice worth having, is what you mean by ill
treatment--is he rough and violent in his way with her? does he
threaten her with violence? is he coarse and brutal?"

"No," Ned said somewhat reluctantly; "he is not that, sir; he is
always snapping and snarling and finding fault."

"That is bad, Ned, but it does not amount to ill treatment. When
a man is put out in business and things go wrong with him it is
unhappily too often his custom to vent his ill temper upon innocent
persons; and I fancy from what I hear--you know in a little
place like this every one's business is more or less known--Mr.
Mulready has a good deal to put him out. He has erected new machinery
and dare not put it to work, owing as I hear--for he has lain
the documents before the magistrates--for his having received
threatening letters warning him against doing so. This is very
trying to the man. Then, Ned, you will excuse my saying that perhaps
he is somewhat tried at home. It is no pleasant thing for a man to
have a young fellow like yourself in the house taking up an attitude
of constant hostility. I do not say that his conduct may or may not
justify it; but you will not deny that from the first you were
prepared to receive him as an enemy rather than as a friend. I
heard a story some weeks ago in the town, which emanated no doubt
from the servants, that you had actually struck him."

"He hit Charlie, sir," Ned exclaimed.

"That may be," Mr. Porson went on gravely; "and I have no doubt,
Ned, that you considered then, and that you consider now, that you
were acting rightly in interfering on behalf of your brother. But
I should question much whether in such a matter you are the best
judge. You unfortunately began with a very strong prejudice against
this man; you took up the strongest attitude of hostility to him;
you were prepared to find fault with everything he said and did;
you put yourself in the position of the champion of your mother,
brother, and sister against him. Under such circumstances it was
hardly possible that things could go on well. Now I suppose, Ned,
that the idea which you have in your mind in deciding to give up
the profession you have chosen, is that you may remain as their
champion and protector here."

"Yes, sir," Ned said. "Father told me to be kind to mother, whatever
happened."

"Quite so, my boy; but the question is, Are you being kind?"

Ned looked surprised.

"That you intend to be so, Ned, I am sure. The question is, Are
you going the right way to work? Is this championship that you have
taken upon yourself increasing her happiness, or is it not?"

Ned was silent.

"I do not think that it is, Ned. Your mother must be really fond
of this man or she would not have married him. Do you think that it
conduces to the comfort of her home to see the constant antagonism
which prevails between you and him? Is it not the fact that this
ill temper under which she suffers is the result of the irritation
caused to him by your attitude? Do you not add to her burden rather
than relieve it?"

Ned was still silent. He had so thoroughly persuaded himself that
he was protecting his mother, his brother, and sister from Mr.
Mulready that he had never considered the matter in this light.

"Does your mother take his part or yours in these quarrels, Ned?"

"She takes his part, sir," said Ned indignantly.

"Very well, Ned; that shows in itself that she does not wish for
your championship, that in her eyes the trouble in the house is
in fact caused by you. You must remember that when a woman loves
a man she makes excuses for his faults of temper; his irritable
moods, sharp expressions, and what you call snapping and snarling
do not seem half so bad to her as they do to a third person,
especially when that third person is her partisan. Instead of your
adding to her happiness by renouncing your idea of going into the
army, and of deciding to remain here in some position or other to
take care of her, as, I suppose, is your intention, the result will
be just the contrary. As to your sister, I think the same thing
would happen.

"Your mother is certainly greatly attached to her and owing to
her changed habits--for I understand that she is now a far more
active, and I may say, Ned, a more sensible woman than before her
marriage--I see no reason why Lucy should not be happy with her,
especially if the element of discord--I mean yourself--were
out of the way. As to Charlie, at the worst I don't think that he
would suffer from your absence. His stepfather's temper will be
less irritable; and as Charlie is away at school all day, and has
to prepare his lessons in the evening, there is really but slight
opportunity for his stepfather treating him with any active
unkindness, even should he be disposed to do so.

"Did I think, my boy, that your presence here would be likely to
benefit your family I should be the last person to advise you to
avoid making a sacrifice of your private wishes to what you consider
your duty; but upon the contrary I am convinced that the line which
you have, with the best intention, taken up has been altogether a
mistake, that your stay at home does vastly more harm than good,
and that things would go on very much better in your absence."

This was a bitter mortification for Ned, who had hitherto nursed
the idea that he was performing rather a heroic part, and was
sacrificing himself for the sake of his mother.

"You don't know the fellow as I do," he said sullenly at last.

"I do not, Ned; but I know human nature, and I know that any man
would show himself at his worst under such circumstances as those
in which you hare placed him. It is painful to have to say, but I
am sure that you have done harm rather than good, and that things
will get on much better in your absence."

"I believe he is quite capable of killing her," Ned said passionately,
"if he wanted her out of the way."

"That is a hard thing to say, Ned; but even were it so, we have no
reason for supposing that he does want her out of the way. Come,
Sankey, I am sure you have plenty of good sense. Hitherto you have
been acting rather blindly in this matter. You have viewed it from
one side only, and with the very best intentions in the world have
done harm rather than good.

"I am convinced that when you come to think it over you will see
that, in following out your own and your father's intentions and
wishes as to your future career, you will really best fulfil his
last injunctions and will show the truest kindness to your mother.
Don't give me your answer now, but take time to think it over. Try
and see the case from every point of view, and I think you will
come to the conclusion that what I have been saying, although it
may seem rather hard to you at first, is true, and that you had
best go into the army, as you had intended. I am sure in any case
you will know that what I have said, even if it seems unkind, has
been for your good."

"Thank you, Mr. Porson," Ned replied; "I am quite sure of that.
Perhaps you are right, and I have been making a fool of myself all
along. But anyhow I will think it over."


CHAPTER XI: THE NEW MACHINERY


It is rather hard for a lad who thinks that he has been behaving
somewhat as a hero to come to the conclusion that he has been
making a fool of himself; but this was the result of Ned Sankey's
cogitation over what Mr. Porson had said to him. Perhaps he arrived
more easily at that conclusion because he was not altogether
unwilling to do so. It was very mortifying to allow that he had
been altogether wrong; but, on the other hand, there was a feeling
of deep pleasure at the thought that he could, in Mr. Porson's
deliberate opinion, go into the army and carry out all his original
hopes and plans. His heart had been set upon this as long as he
could remember, and it had been a bitter disappointment to him when
he had arrived at the conclusion that it was his duty to abandon
the idea. He did not now come to the conclusion hastily that Mr.
Porson's view of the case was the correct one; but after a fortnight's
consideration he went down on New Year's Day to the school, and
told his master that he had made up his mind.

"I see, sir," he said, "now that I have thought it all over, that
you are quite right, and that I have been behaving like an ass,
so I shall set to work again and try and make up the lost time. I
have only six months longer, for Easter is the time when Mr. Simmonds
said that I should be old enough, and he will write to the lord
lieutenant, and I suppose that in three months after that I should
get my commission."

"That is right, Ned. I am exceedingly glad you have been able to
take my view of the matter. I was afraid you were bent upon spoiling
your life, and I am heartily glad that you have been able to see
the matter in a different light."

A day or two afterward Ned took an opportunity of telling his mother
that he intended at Easter to remind Mr. Simmonds of his promise to
apply for a commission for him; and had he before had any lingering
doubt that the decision was a wise one it would have been dissipated
by the evident satisfaction and relief with which the news was
received; nevertheless, he could not help a feeling of mortification
at seeing in his mother's face the gladness which the prospect of
his leaving occasioned her.

It was some time since Ned had seen his friend Bill Swinton, for
Bill was now regularly at work in Mr. Mulready's factory and was
only to be found at home in the evening, and Ned had been in no
humor for going out. He now, however, felt inclined for a friendly
talk again, and the next Sunday afternoon he started for Varley.

"Well, Maister Ned," Bill said as he hurried to the door in answer
to his knock, "it be a long time surely sin oi saw thee last--
well nigh six months, I should say."

"It is a long time, Bill, but I haven't been up to anything, even
to coming up here. Put on your cap and we will go for a walk across
the moors together."

In a few seconds Bill joined him, and they soon left the village
behind.

"Oi thought as how thou didn't feel oop to talking loike, Moister
Ned. Oi heared tell as how thou did'st not get on well wi' Foxey;
he be a roight down bad un, he be; it were the talk of the place
as how you gived him a clout atween t' eyes, and oi laughed rarely
to myself when oi seed him come through t' mill wi' black and blue
all round 'em. There warn't a hand there but would have given a
week's pay to have seen it done."

"I am afraid I was wrong, Bill," Ned said, feeling ashamed rather
then triumphant at the thought. "I oughtn't to have done it, but
my beastly temper got the best of it."

"Doan't say that Maister Ned; he deserves ten toimes worse nor
ye gived him, and he will get it some time if he doan't mind. Oi
tell ee there be lots of talk of him, and Captain Lud's gang be a
getting stronger and stronger. Oi tell ye, t' maisters be agoing
to have a bad time on it afore long, and Foxey be sure to be one
of the first served out."

"Well, don't you have anything to do with it, Bill. You know
I have told you over and over again that no good can come of such
bad doings, and that the men will only make matters much worse for
themselves. My father used to say that no good ever came of mob
violence. They may do some harm for a time, but it is sure to recoil
on their own heads."

"Oi doan't ha' nowt to do wi' it," Bill replied, "cause oi told yer
oi wouldn't; but oi've some trouble to keep oot o't. Ye see oi am
nointeen now, and most o' t' chaps of moi age they be in 't; they
meet at the 'Dog' nigh every noight, and they drills regular out
on t' moor here, and it doan't seem natural for oi not to be in
it, especial as moi brothers be in it. They makes it rough for me
in t' village, and says as how I ain't got no spirit, and even t'
girls laughs at me."

"Not Polly Powlett, I am sure, Bill."

"No, not Polly," Bill replied. "She be a different sort. A' together
it be a bit hard, and it be well for me as oi 'm main strong and
tough, for oi ha' to fight pretty nigh every Saturday. However,
oi ha thrashed pretty nigh every young chap in Varley, and they be
beginning now to leave oi alone."

"That's right, Bill; I am sure I have no right to preach to you
when I am always doing wrong myself; still I am quite sure you will
be glad in the long run that you had nothing to do with King Lud.
I know the times are very hard, but burning mills and murdering
masters are not the way to make them better; you take my word for
that. And now how are things going on in Varley?"

"No great change here," Bill replied. "Polly Powlett bain't made
up her moind yet atween t' chaps as is arter her. They say as she
sent John Stukeley, the smith, to the roight about last Sunday;
he ha' been arter her vor the last year. Some thowt she would have
him, some didn't. He ha' larning, you see, can read and wroite
foine, and ha' got a smooth tongue, and knows how to talk to gals, so
some thought she would take him; oi knew well enough she wouldn't
do nowt of the koind, for oi ha' heard her say he were a mischievous
chap, and a cuss to Varley. Thou know'st, Maister Ned, they do
say, but in course oi knows nowt about it, as he be the head of
the Luddites in this part of Yorkshire.

"Luke Marner he be dead against King Lud, he be, and so be many of
the older men here; it's most the young uns as takes to them ways;
and nateral, Polly she thinks as Luke does, or perhaps," and Bill
laughed, "it's Polly as thowt that way first, and Luke as thinks
as she does. However it be, she be dead set agin them, and she's
said to me jest the same thing as thou'st been a-saying; anyhow, it
be sartain as Polly ha' said no to John Stukeley, not as she said
nowt about it, and no one would ha' known aboot it ef he hadn't
gone cussing and swearing down at the 'Dog.'

"I thinks. Maister Ned, as we shall ha' trouble afore long. The
men ha been drilling four or five years now, and oi know as they
ha' been saying, What be the good of it when nowt is done and the
wages gets lower and lower? They have preachments now out on t'
moor on Sunday, and the men comes from miles round, and they tells
me as Stukeley and others, but him chiefly, goes on awful agin t'
maisters, and says, There's Scripture vor it as they owt to smite
'em, and as how tyrants owt vor to be hewed in pieces."

"The hewing would not be all on one side, Bill, you will see, if
they begin it. You know how easily the soldiers have put down riots
in other places."

"That be true," Bill said; "but they doan't seem vor to see it. Oi
don't say nowt one way or t' other, and oi have had more nor half
a mind to quit and go away till it's over. What wi' my brothers
and all t' other young chaps here being in it, it makes it moighty
hard vor oi to stand off; only as oi doan't know what else vor to
do, oi would go. Oi ha' been a-thinking that when thou get'st to
be an officer oi'll list in the same regiment and go to the wars
wi' thee. Oi am sick of this loife here."

"Well, Bill, there will be no difficulty about that if you really
make up your mind to it when the time comes. Of course I should
like to have you very much. I have heard my father say that each
officer has a soldier as his special servant; and if you would
like that, you see, when we were alone together we should be able
to talk about Varley and everything here just as we do now. Then
I suppose I could help you on and get you made first corporal and
then a sergeant."

"Very well, Maister Ned, then we will look on that as being as good
as settled, and as soon as thou gets to be an officer oi will go
as one of your soldiers."

For an hour they walked across the moor, talking about a soldier's
life, Ned telling of the various parts of the world in which England
was at that time engaged in war, and wondering in which of them
they would first see service. Then they came back to the village
and there parted, and Ned, feeling in better spirits than he had
been from the day when he first heard of his mother's engagement
to Mr. Mulready, walked briskly down to Marsden.

For a time matters went on quietly. Few words were exchanged between
Ned and Mr. Mulready; and although the latter could not but have
noticed that Ned was brighter and more cheerful in his talk, he
was brooding over his own trouble, and paid but little heed to it.

The time was fast approaching when he could no longer go on as at
present. The competition with the mills using the new machinery was
gradually crushing him, and it was necessary for him to come to a
determination either to pluck up heart and to use his new machines,
or to close his mill.

At last he determined to take the former course and to defy King
Lud. Other manufacturers used steam, and why should not he? It was
annoying to him in the extreme that his friends and acquaintances,
knowing that he had fitted the mill with the new plant, were always
asking him why he did not use it.

A sort of uneasy consciousness that he was regarded by his townsmen
as a coward was constantly haunting him. He knew in his heart that
his danger was greater than that of others, because he could not
rely on his men. Other masters had armed their hands, and had turned
their factories into strong places, some of them even getting down
cannon for their defense: for, as a rule, the hands employed with
the new machinery had no objection to it, for they were able to
earn larger wages with less bodily toil than before.

The hostility was among the hands thrown out of employment, or
who found that they could now no longer make a living by the looms
which they worked in their own homes. Hitherto Mr. Mulready had
cared nothing for the goodwill of his hands. He had simply regarded
them as machines from whom the greatest amount of work was to be
obtained at the lowest possible price. They might grumble and curse
him beneath their breaths; they might call him a tyrant behind his
back, for this he cared nothing: but he felt now that it would have
been better had their relations been different: for then he could
have trusted them to do their best in defense of the mill.

Having once determined upon defying King Lud, Mr. Mulready went
before the magistrates, and laying before them the threatening
letters he had received, for the first had been followed by many
others, he asked them to send for a company of infantry, as he was
going to set his mill to work. The magistrates after some deliberation
agreed to do so, and wrote to the commanding officer of the troops
at Huddersfield asking him to station a detachment at Marsden for
a time.

The request was complied with. A company of infantry marched in
and were billeted upon the town. A room was fitted up at the mill,
and ten of them were quartered here, and upon the day after their
arrival the new machinery started.

Now that the step was taken, Mr. Mulready's spirits rose. He
believed that the presence of the soldiers was ample protection
for the mill, and he hoped that ere they left the town the first
excitement would have cooled down, and the Luddites have turned
their attention to other quarters.

Ned met Bill on the following Sunday.

"I suppose, Bill," he said, "there is a rare stir about Foxey using
his new machinery?"

"Ay, that there be, and no wonder," Bill said angrily, "there be
twenty hands turned adrift. Oi bee one of them myself."

"You, Bill! I had no idea you bad been discharged."

"Ay; oi have got the sack, and so ha' my brother and young Jarge
Marner, and most o' t' young chaps in the mill. Oi suppose as how
Foxey thinks as the old hands will stick to t' place, and is more
afeerd as the young uns might belong to King Lud, and do him a bad
turn with the machinery. Oi tell ye, Maister Ned, that the sooner
as you goes as an officer the better, vor oi caan't bide here now and
hold off from the others, Oi have had a dog's loife for some time,
and it ull be worse now. It would look as if oi hadn't no spirit
in the world, to stand being put upon and not join the others. T'
other chaps scarce speak to me, and the gals turn their backs as
oi pass them. Oi be willing vor to be guided by you as far as oi
can; but it bain't in nature to stand this. Oi'd as lief go and
hang myself. Oi would go and list tomorrow, only oi don't know what
regiment you are going to."

"Well, Bill, it is hard," Ned said, "and I am not surprised that
you feel that you cannot stand it; but it won't be for long now.
Easter will be here in a fortnight, and then I shall see Mr. Simmonds
and get him to apply at once. I met him in the street only last
week, and he was talking about it then. He thinks that it will not
be long after he sends in an application before I get my commission.
He says he has got interest in London at the Horse Guards, and will
get the application of the lord lieutenant backed up there; so I
hope that in a couple of months at latest it will all be settled."

"Oi hope so, oi am sure, vor oi be main sick of this. However, oi
can hold on for another couple of months; they know anyhow as it
ain't from cowardice as I doan't join them. I fowt Jack Standfort
yesterday and licked un; though, as you see, oi 'ave got a rare
pair of black eyes today. If oi takes one every Saturday it's only
eight more to lick, and oi reckon oi can do that."

"I wish I could help you, Bill," Ned said: "if father had been
alive I am sure he would have let you have a little money to take
you away from here and keep you somewhere until it is time for you
to enlist; but you see I can do nothing now."

"Doan't you go vor to trouble yourself aboot me, Maister Ned.
Oi shall hold on roight enow. The thought as it is for two months
longer will keep me up. Oi can spend moi evenings in at Luke's.
He goes off to the 'Coo,' but Polly doan't moind moi sitting there
and smoking moi pipe, though it bain't every one as she would let
do that."

Ned laughed. "It's a pity, Bill, you are not two or three years
older, then perhaps Polly mightn't give you the same answer she
gave to the smith."

"Lor' bless ee," Bill said seriously, "Polly wouldn't think nowt
of oi, not if oi was ten years older. We had been crawling lazily
along, over prairie, through valley, up and down hill, since
sunrise, and it was now nearly noon.

All of a sudden, from a clump of tall grass near us, up sprung an
antelope and a pair of beautiful fawns. Like a flash, the old
one and one of the fawns started over the brow of the ridge on
which they were lying; while the other little fellow began
running around in a circle, as you have seen ponies do at the
circus, bleating as hard as he could.

The boys leaped from the wagons in an instant, while I remained to
hold the horses.

Ranging themselves around the circle, the three hunters every now
and then, dashed headlong after the fawn as he flew past; but
missed him by a rod or more every time.

Our dog Landy, also, was on hand for the fun; and it was a laughable
sight to see the great awkward fellow straining every nerve to
overtake the little streak of animated lightning that flashed
before him. Landy was a Newfoundland shepherd, and I knew that nothing
could induce him to hurt the fawn if he should catch him.

While I was watching the sport, and laughing at the drollery of it,
all at once I heard a stamping on the other side of the wagon, and,
stepping quickly around the horses' heads, I saw the old doe, and
a buck and doe with her.

[Illustration]
As the fawn came bounding along the circle, the buck and does,
bleating anxiously, darted in ahead of him, rushing right by the
men and dog.

Never stopping an instant, the big buck led the way, the does and fawn
followed; and, before you could say "Jack Robinson," they were "over
the hills, and far away."
This was the antelope that we _almost_ caught. The boys came back to
the wagons, thoroughly fagged out, and looking painfully silly.

Again we drove along, but had not proceeded more than a mile
or two, when up sprung another old doe, and ran toward Landy,
stamping her fore-foot fiercely. Of course the foolish dog took
after her as hard as he could go,--just as she wanted him to do;
and a fine chase she led him, always taking care not to leave him
so far behind as to discourage him, and make him turn back.

We knew at once by her actions that she had a fawn near there; and so,
while she was leading Landy away from it, we set about hunting it
up. In a few minutes, I came across the little slender-legged
beauty, snugly curled up under a tuft of grass. As I came upon
him, he dashed out of cover with a shrill, plaintive little "baa-baa,
baa-baa," and, as fawns always do in such cases, began running in
a small circle.

Landy, disgusted with his hopeless chase, came trotting back, and
at once struck in after the fawn. This one was not so fleet as the
other; and by and by Landy overtook him, and tried to stop him by pushing
him over with his nose. This frightened the fawn so badly, that he
made direct for Tip, who was squatting in the long grass in wait
for him, and rushed joyfully into his arms.

We took the bright-eyed little thing into the wagon, and by night
he was so tame, that he would follow us around; and, when we lay
down to sleep on the ground, I gave him a corner of my blanket for
a bed. At last we got back to Thompson's log-house, which stood
near the timber; and, when we went away we gave the fawn to his
two little girls.

I like all the fellows at school well enough, but there is not one
of them would do a fiftieth part as much for me as Bill would. Even
you, mother, with all your prejudices; must allow that it will be
a good thing for me to have some one with me who will really care for
me, who will nurse me if I am sick or wounded, who would lay down
his life for mine if necessary. I tell you there isn't a finer fellow
than Bill living. Of course he's rough, and he's had no education,
I know that; but it's not his fault. But a truer or warmer hearted
fellow never lived. He is a grand fellow. I wish I was only half
as true and as honest and manly as he is. I am proud to have Bill
as a friend. It won't be long before I have gone, mother. I have
been fighting hard with myself so that there shall be peace and
quietness in the house for the little time I have got to be here,
and you make it harder for me."

"It's ridiculous your talking so," Mrs. Mulready said peevishly,
"and about a common young fellow like this. I don't pretend
to understand you, Ned. I never have and never shall do. But I am
sure the house will be much more comfortable when you have gone.
Whatever trouble there is with my husband is entirely your making.
I only wonder that he puts up with your ways as he does. If his
temper was not as good as yours is bad he would not be able to do
so."

"All right, mother," Ned said. "He is an angel, he is, we all
know, and I am the other thing. Well, if you are contented, that's
the great thing, isn't it? I only hope you will always be so; but
there," he said, calming himself with a great effort as his father's
last words again came into his mind, "don't let's quarrel, mother.
I am sorry for what I have said. It's quite right that you should
stick up for your husband, and I do hope that when I go you will,
as you say, be more comfortable and happy. Perhaps you will. I am
sure I hope so. Well, I know I am not nice with him. I can't help
it. It's my beastly temper, I suppose. That's an old story. Come,
mother, I have only a short time to be at home now. Let us both try
and make it as pleasant as we can, so that when I am thousands of
miles away, perhaps in India, we may have it to look back upon. You
try and leave my friends alone and I will try and be as pleasant
as I can with your husband."

Mrs. Mulready was crying now.

"You know, Ned, I would love you if you would let me, only you are
so set against my husband. I am sure he always means kindly. He
eagerly repeated the question, heard the enemy was totally routed,
cried, "I am satisfied!"

--and expired--_Thackeray's Life of the Earl of Chatham_.

* * * * *

SYRIAN LOOKING GLASSES.

The Damascus blades are the handsomest and best of all Syria; and
it is curious to observe their manner of burnishing them. This
operation is performed before tempering, and they have for this
purpose a small piece of wood, in which is fixed an iron, which
they run up and down the blade, and thus clear off all inequalities,
as a plane does to wood:
they then temper and polish it.

This polish is so highly finished, that when any one wants to arrange
his turban, he uses his sword for a looking-glass. As to its
temper it is perfect, and I have nowhere seen swords that cut
so excellently. There are made at Damascus and in the adjoining country
mirrors of steel, that magnify objects like burning-glasses. I
have seen some that, when exposed to the sun, have reflected the
heat so strongly as to set fire to a plant fifteen or sixteen feet
distant!

--_Broquiere's Travels to Jerusalem in 1432._
* * * * *

AUSTRALIAN PATRIOTISM.

A young Australian, on being once asked his opinion of a splendid
shop on Ludgate-hill, replied, in a disappointed tone, "It is not
equal to _Big Cooper's_," (a store-shop in Sidney,) while Mrs.

Rickards' _Fashionable Repository_ is believed to be unrivalled,
even in Bond-street.

Some of them also contrive to find out that the English cows give
_less_ milk and butter than the Australian, and the choicest
Newmarket racers possess _less_ beauty and swiftness than _Junius_,
_Modus_, _Currency Lass_, and others of Australian turf pedigree;
nay, even a young girl, when asked how she would like to go to
England, replied with great _naiveté_, "I should be afraid to go,
from the _number of thieves_ there," doubtless conceiving England
to be a downright hive of such, that threw off its annual swarms
to people the wilds of this colony.

Nay, the very miserable looking trees that cast their annual coats
of bark, and present to the eye of a raw European the appearance
of being actually dead, I have heard praised as objects of incomparable
beauty!

and I myself, so powerful is habit, begin to look upon them pleasurably.
Our ideas of beauty are, in truth, less referrable to a _natural_
than an _artificial_ standard, varying in every country according
to what the eye has been habituated to, and fashion prescribes.
Had he known
that things had gone wrong at the mill that day, that the new machine
had broken one of its working parts and had brought everything to
a standstill till it could be repaired, he would have been able to
make allowances for Mr. Mulready's ill humor.

Not knowing this he grew pale with the efforts which he made to
restrain himself as his stepfather snarled at his wife, snapped at
Lucy and Charlie, and grumbled and growled at everything throughout
the meal. Everything that was said was wrong, and at last, having
silenced his wife and her children, the meal was completed in gloomy
silence.

The two boys went into the little room off the hall which they used
of an evening to prepare their lessons for next day. Charlie, who
came in last, did not abut the door behind him.

"That is a nice man, our stepfather," Ned said in a cold fury.
"His ways get more and more pleasant every day; such an amiable,
popular man, so smiling and pleasant!"

"Oh! it's no use saying anything," Charlie said in an imploring
voice, "it only makes things worse."

"Worse!" Ned exclaimed indignantly; "how could they be worse? Well
may they call him Foxey, for foxey he is, a double faced snarling
brute."

As the last word issued from Ned's lips he reeled under a tremendous
box on the ear from behind. Mr. Mulready was passing through the
hall--for his gig was waiting at the door to take him back to
the mill, where some fitters would be at work till late, repairing
the damages to the machine--when he had caught Ned's words, which
were spoken at the top of his voice.

The smoldering anger of months burst at once into a flame heightened
by the ill humor which the day's events had caused, and he burst
into the room and almost felled Ned to the ground with his swinging
blow. Recovering himself, Ned flew at him, but the boy was no match
for the man, and Mr. Mulready's passion was as fierce as his own;
seizing his throat with his left hand and forcing him back into a
corner of the room, his stepfather struck him again and again with
all his force with his right.

Charlie had run at once from the room to fetch his mother, and it
was scarcely a minute after the commencement of the outbreak that
she rushed into the room, and with a scream threw her arms round
her husband.

"The young scoundrel!" Mr. Mulready exclaimed, panting, as he
released his hold of Ned; "he has been wanting a lesson for a long
time, and I have given him one at last. He called me Foxey, the
young villain, and said I was a double faced snarling brute; let
him say so again and I will knock his head off."

But Ned just at present was not in a condition to repeat his words;
breathless and half stunned he leaned in the corner, his breath
came in gasps, his face was as pale as death, his cheek was cut,
there were red marks on the forehead which would speedily become
black, and the blood was flowing from a cut on his lip, his eyes
had a dazed and half stupid look.

"Oh! William!" Mrs. Mulready said as she looked at her son, "how
could you hurt him so!"

"Hurt him, the young reptile!" Mr. Mulready said savagely. "I meant
to hurt him. I will hurt him more next time."

Mrs. Mulready paid no attention to his words, but went up to Ned.

"Ned, my boy," she said tenderly, "what is it? Don't look like
that, Ned; speak to me."

His mother's voice seemed to rouse Ned into consciousness. He drew
a long breath, then slowly passed his hand across his eyes, and
lips, and mouth. He looked at his mother and seemed about to speak,
but no sound came from his lips. Then his eye fell on his stepfather,
who, rather alarmed at the boy's appearance, was standing near the
door. The expression of Ned's face changed, his mouth became set
and rigid, his eyes dilated, and Mr. Mulready, believing that he
was about to spring upon him, drew back hastily half a step and
threw up his hands to defend himself. Mrs. Mulready threw herself
in Ned's way; the boy made no effort to put her aside, but kept
his eyes fixed over her shoulder at his stepfather.

"Take care!" he said hoarsely, "it will be my turn next time, and
when it comes I will kill you, you brute."

"Oh, go away, William!" Mrs. Mulready cried; "oh! do go away, or
there will be more mischief. Oh! Ned, do sit down, and don't look
so dreadful; he is going now."

Mr. Mulready turned and went with a laugh which he intended to he
scornful, but in which there was a strong tinge of uneasiness. He
had always in his heart been afraid of this boy with his wild and
reckless temper, and felt that in his present mood Ned was capable
of anything. Still as Mr. Mulready took his seat in his gig his
predominant feeling was satisfaction.

"I am glad I have given him a lesson," he muttered to himself,
"and have paid him off for months of insolence. He won't try it on
again, and as for his threats, pooh! he'll be gone in a few weeks,
and there will be an end of it."

After he had gone Mrs. Mulready tried to soothe Ned, but the boy
would not listen to her, and in fact did not seem to hear her.

"Don't you mind, mother," he said in a strange, quiet voice, "I
will pay him off;" and muttering these words over and over again
he went out into the hall, took down his cap in a quiet, mechanical
sort of way, put it on, opened the door, and went out.

"Oh! Charlie," Mrs. Mulready said to her second son, who, sobbing
bitterly, had thrown himself down in a chair by the table, and
was sitting with his head on his hands, "there will be something
terrible come of this! Ned's temper is so dreadful, and my husband
was wrong, too. He should never have beaten him so, though Ned did
say such things to him. What shall I do? these quarrels will be
the death of me. I suppose Ned will be wandering about all night
again. Do put on your cap, Charlie, and go out and see if you can
find him, and persuade him to come home and go to bed; perhaps he
will listen to you."

Charlie was absent an hour, and returned saying that he could not
find his brother.

"Perhaps he's gone up to Varley as he did last time," Mrs. Mulready
said. "I am sure I hope he has, else he will be wandering about all
night, and he had such a strange lock in his face that there's no
saying where he might go to, or what he might do."

Charlie was almost heartbroken, and sat up till long past his usual
time, waiting for his brother's return. At last his eyes would no
longer keep open, and he stumbled upstairs to bed, where he fell
asleep almost as his head touched the pillow, in spite of his
resolution to be awake until Ned returned.

Downstairs Mrs. Mulready kept watch. She did not expect Ned to
return, but she was listening for the wheels of her husband's gig.
It was uncertain at what time he would return; for when he rose from
the tea table she had asked him what time he expected to be back,
and he had replied that he could not say; he should stop until the
repairs were finished, and she was to go to bed and not bother.

So at eleven o'clock she went upstairs, for once before when he
had been out late and she had sat up he had been much annoyed; but
after she got in bed she lay for hours listening for the sound of
the wheels. At last she fell asleep and dreamed that Ned and her
husband were standing at the end of a precipice grappling fiercely
together in a life and death struggle. She was awaked at last by
a knocking at the door; she glanced at her watch, which hung above
her head; it was but half past six.

"What is it, Mary?"

"Please, mum, there's a constable below, and he wants to speak to
you immediate."

Mrs. Mulready sprang from the bed and began to dress herself
hurriedly. All sorts of mischief that might have come to Ned passed
rapidly through her mind; her husband had not returned, but no doubt
he had stopped at the mill all night watching the men at work. His
absence scarcely occasioned her a moment's thought. In a very few
minutes she was downstairs in the kitchen, where the constable
was standing waiting for her. She knew him by sight, for Marsden
possessed but four constables, and they were all well known
characters.

"What is it?" she asked; "has anything happened to my son?"

"No, mum," the constable said in a tone of surprise, "I didn't know
as he wasn't in bed and asleep, but I have some bad news for you,
mum; it's a bad job altogether."

"What is it?" she asked again; "is it my husband?"

"Well, mum, I am sorry to say as it be. A chap came in early this
morning and told me as summat had happened, so I goes out, and half
a mile from the town I finds it just as he says."

"But what is it?" Mrs. Mulready gasped.

"Well, mum, I am sorry to have to tell you, but there was the gig
all smashed to atoms, and there was the little black mare lying
all in a heap with her neck broke, and there was--" and he stopped.

"My husband!" Mrs. Mulready gasped.

"Yes, marm, I be main sorry to say it were. The number of persons
now elected in the United Kingdom (including, for instance, the
Parish Councillors of rural parishes, and the Common Council of
the City of London) is, of course, larger than my estimate, though
it has been greatly diminished by the Acts of 1888, 1894 and 1902.
Owing, however, to the fact that areas and powers are still
somewhat uneconomically distributed it represents a smaller actual
working power than would be given by the plan which I suggest.

On the other hand, the number of persons (excluding the Army and
Navy) given in the Census Returns of 1901 as professionally employed
in the central and local government of the United Kingdom was
161,000.

This number has certainly grown since 1901 at an increasing rate, and
consists of persons who give on an average at least four times
as many hours a week to their work as can be expected from the
average elected member.

What ought to be the relation between these two bodies, of
twenty-three thousand elected, and, say, two hundred thousand
non-elected persons?

To begin with, ought the elected members be free to appoint the
non-elected officials as they like?

Most American politicians of Andrew Jackson's time, and a large
number of American politicians to-day, would hold, for instance,
as a direct corollary from democratic principles, that the elected
congressman or senator for a district or State has a right to
nominate the local federal officials.

There may, he would admit, be some risk in that method, but the
risk, he would argue, is one involved in the whole scheme of
democracy, and the advantages of democracy as a whole are greater
than its disadvantages.

Our political logic in England has never been so elementary as
that of the Americans, nor has our faith in it been so unflinching.
Most Englishmen, therefore, have no feeling of disloyalty to the
democratic idea in admitting that it is not safe to allow the
efficiency of officials to depend upon the personal character of
individual representatives. At the General Election of 1906 there
were at least two English constituencies (one Liberal and the other
Conservative) which returned candidates whose personal unfitness
had been to most men's minds proved by evidence given in the law
courts.

Neither constituency was markedly unlike the average in any respect.
The facts were well known, and in each case an attempt was made
by a few public-spirited voters to split the party vote, but both
candidates were successful by large majorities. The Borough of Croydon
stands, socially and intellectually, well above the average, but
Mr. Jabez Balfour represented Croydon for many years, until he was
sentenced to penal servitude for fraud.

No one in any of these three cases would have desired that the
sitting member should appoint, say, the postmasters, or collectors
of Inland Revenue for his constituency.

But though the case against the appointment of officials by
individual representatives is clear, the question of the part which
should be taken by any elected body as a whole in appointing the
officials who serve under it is much more difficult, and cannot be
discussed without considering what are to be the relative functions
of the officials and the representatives after the appointment has
taken place.

Do we aim at making election in fact as well as in constitutional
theory the sole base of political authority, or do we desire that
the non-elected officials shall exert some amount of independent
influence?

The fact that most Englishmen, in spite of their traditional fear
of bureaucracy, would now accept the second of these alternatives,
is one of the most striking results of our experience in the
working of democracy. We see that the evidence on which the verdict
at an election must be given is becoming every year more difficult
to collect and present, and further removed from the direct
observation of the voters.
We are afraid of being entirely dependent on partisan newspapers
or election leaflets for our knowledge, and we have therefore come
to value, even if for that reason only, the existence of a responsible
and more or less independent Civil Service.

It is difficult to realise how short a time it is since questions
for which we now rely entirely on official statistics were discussed
by the ordinary political methods of agitation and advocacy. In the
earlier years of George the Third's reign, at a time when population
in England was, as we now know, rising with unprecedented rapidity,
the question of fact whether it was rising or falling led to
embittered political controversy.[84] In the spring of 1830 the
House of Commons gave three nights to a confused party debate on
the state of the country.

The Whigs argued that distress was general, and the Tories (who
were, as it happened, right) that it was local[85].

In 1798 or 1830 the 'public' who could take part in such discussions
numbered perhaps fifty thousand at the most. At least ten million
people must, since 1903, have taken part in the present Tariff
Reform controversy; and that controversy would have degenerated
into mere Bedlam if it had not been for the existence of the Board
of Trade Returns, with whose figures both sides had at least to
appear to square their arguments

.

[84] Bonar's _Malthus_, chap. vii.

[85] _Hansard_, Feb. 4th, 5th, 6th, 1830.

If official figures did not exist in England, or if they did not
possess or deserve authority, it is difficult to estimate the degree
of political harm which could be done in a few years by an
interested and deliberately dishonest agitation on some question
too technical for the personal judgment of the ordinary voter.
Suppose, for instance, that our Civil Service were either notoriously
inefficient or believed to be dominated by party influence, and
that an organised and fraudulent 'currency agitation' should suddenly
spring up.

A powerful press syndicate brings out a series of well-advertised
articles declaring that the privileges of the Bank of England and
the law as to the gold reserve are 'strangling British Industry.'
The contents bills of two hundred newspapers denounce every day
the 'monopolists' and the 'gold-bugs,' the 'lies and shams' of the
Bank Returns, and the 'paid perjurers of Somerset House.' The
group of financiers who control the syndicate stand to win enormous
sums by the creation of a more 'elastic' currency, and subscribe
largely to a Free Money League, which includes a few sincere
paper-money theorists who have been soured by the contempt of the
professional economists. A vigorous and well-known member of
parliament--a not very reputable aristocrat perhaps, or some one
loosely connected with the Labour movement--whom everybody has
hitherto feared and no one quite trusted, sees his opportunity.

He puts himself at the head of the movement, denounces the
'fossils' and 'superior persons' who at present lead Conservative
and Liberal and Labour parties alike, and, with the help of the
press syndicate and the subscription fund of the 'Free Money
League,' begins to capture the local associations, and through them
the central office of the party which is for the moment in opposition,
Can any one be sure that such a campaign, if it were opposed only
by counter-electioneering, might not succeed, even although its
proposals were wholly fraudulent and its leaders so ignorant or so
criminal that they could only come into power by discrediting
two-thirds of the honest politicians in the country and by replacing
them with 'hustlers' and 'boodlers' and 'grafters,' and the other
species for whom American political science has provided names?

How is the ordinary voter--a market-gardener, or a gas-stoker,
or a water-colour painter--to distinguish by the help of his own
knowledge and reasoning power between the various appeals made to
him by the 'Reformers' and the 'Safe Money Men' as to the right
proportion of the gold reserve to the note issue--the 'ten per
cent.' on the blue posters and the 'cent. per cent.' on the yellow?

Nor will his conscience be a safer guide than his judgment. A
'Christian Service Wing' of the Free Money League may be formed,
and his conscience may be roused by a white-cravatted orator,
intoxicated by his own eloquence into something like sincerity,
who borrows that phrase about 'Humanity crucified on a cross of
gold' which Mr.

W.J. Bryan borrowed a dozen years ago from some one else. In an
optimistic mood one might rely on the subtle network of confidence
by which each man trusts, on subjects outside his own knowledge,
some honest and better-informed neighbour, who again trusts at
several removes the trained thinker. But does such a personal
network exist in our vast delocalised urban populations?

It is the vague apprehension of such dangers, quite as much as the
merely selfish fears of the privileged classes, which preserves
in Europe the relics of past systems of non-elective government,
the House of Lords, for instance, in England, and the Monarchy in
Italy or Norway.

Men feel that a second base in politics is required, consisting
of persons independent of the tactics by which electoral opinion
is formed and legally entitled to make themselves heard. But
political authority founded on heredity or wealth is not in fact
protected from the interested manipulation of opinion and
feeling. The American Senate, which has come to be representative
of wealth, is already absorbed by that financial power which
depends for its existence on manufactured opinion; and our House
of Lords is rapidly tending in the same direction. From the
beginning of history it has been found easier for any skilled
politician who set his mind to it, to control the opinions of a
hereditary monarch than those of a crowd.

The real 'Second Chamber,' the real 'constitutional check' in
England, is provided, not by the House of Lords or the Monarchy,
but by the existence of a permanent Civil Service, appointed on
a system independent of the opinion or desires of any politician,
and holding office during good behaviour. If such a service were,
as it is in Russia and to a large extent in India, a sovereign
power, it would itself, as I argued in the last chapter, have to
cultivate the art of manipulating opinion. But the English Civil
servants in their present position have the right and duty of
making their voice heard, without the necessity of making their
will, by fair means or foul, prevail.

The creation of this Service was the one great political invention
in nineteenth-century England, and like other inventions it was
worked out under the pressure of an urgent practical problem.

The method of appointing the officials of the East India Company
had been a critical question in English politics since 1783. By that
time it had already become clear that we could not permanently
allow the appointment of the rulers of a great empire kept in existence
by the English fleet and army to depend upon the irresponsible
favour of the Company's directors.

Charles James Fox in 1783, with his usual heedlessness, proposed to
cut the knot, by making Indian appointments, in effect, part of
the ordinary system of parliamentary patronage; and he and Lord
North were beaten over their India Bill, not only because George
the Third was obstinate and unscrupulous, but because men felt the
enormous political dangers involved in their proposal.

The question, in fact, could only be solved by a new invention.

The expedient of administering an oath to the Directors that they
would make their appointments honestly, proved to be useless, and
the requirements that the nominees of the Directors should submit
to a special training at Hayleybury, though more effective, left
the main evil of patronage untouched.

As early, therefore, as 1833, the Government Bill introduced by
Macaulay for the renewal and revision of the Company's charter
contained a clause providing that East India cadetships should
be thrown open to competition.[86] For the time the influence of
the Directors was sufficient to prevent so great a change from being
effected, but in 1853, on a further renewal of the Charter, the
system of competition was definitely adopted, and the first open
examination for cadetships took place in 1855

.

[86] It would be interesting if Lord Morley, now that he has access
to the records of the East India House, would tell us the true
intellectual history of this far-reaching suggestion.

For the facts as now known, cf.
A.L. Lowell, _Colonial Civil Service_, pp. 243-256.

In the meantime Sir Charles Trevelyan, a distinguished Indian
Civilian who had married Macaulay's sister, had been asked to
inquire, with the help of Sir Stafford Northcote, into the
method of appointment in the Home Civil Service. His report appeared
in the spring of 1854,[87] and is one of the ablest of those State
Papers which have done so much to mould the English constitution
during the last two generations. It showed the intolerable effects
on the _personnel_ of the existing Service of the system by which
the Patronage Secretary of the Treasury distributed appointments
in the national Civil Service among those members of parliament
whose votes were to be influenced or rewarded, and it proposed that
all posts requiring intellectual qualifications should be thrown
open to those young men of good character who succeeded at a
competitive examination in the subjects which then constituted the
education of a gentleman

.

[87] _Reports and Papers on the Civil Service_, 1854-5.

But to propose that members of parliament should give up their own
patronage was a very different thing from asking them to take away
the patronage of the East India Company.

Sir Charles Trevelyan, therefore, before publishing his proposal,
sent it round to a number of distinguished persons both inside and
outside the Government service, and printed their very frank replies
in an appendix.

Most of his correspondents thought that the idea was hopelessly
impracticable. It seemed like the intrusion into the world of
politics of a scheme of cause and effect derived from another
universe--as if one should propose to the Stock Exchange that the
day's prices should be fixed by prayer and the casting of lots.
Lingen, for instance, the permanent head of the Education Office,
wrote considering that, as matter of fact, patronage is one element
of power, and not by any means an unreal one; considering the long
and inestimably valuable habituation of the people of this country
to political contests in which the share of office ... reckons among
the legitimate prizes of war; considering that socially and in the
business of life, as well as in Downing Street, rank and wealth (as
a fact, and whether we like it or not) hold the keys of many things,
and that our modes of thinking and acting proceed, in a thousand
ways, upon this supposition, considering all these things, I should
hesitate long before I advised such a revolution of the Civil Service
as that proposed by yourself and Sir Stafford Northcote

.

'[88] Sir James Stephen of the Colonial Office put it more bluntly,
'The world we live in is not, I think, half moralised enough for
the acceptance of such a scheme of stern morality as this

.'[89] When, a few years later, competition for commissions in the
Indian army was discussed, Queen Victoria (or Prince Albert through
her) objected that it reduced the sovereign to a mere signing
machine.'[90]

[88] _Reports and Papers on the Civil Service_, pp. 104, 105

.

[89] _Ibid._, p. 78
[90] _Life of Queen Victoria_, vol. iii. p. 377 (July 29, 1858).

In 1870, however, sixteen years after Trevelyan's Report, Gladstone
established open competition throughout the English Civil Service,
by an Order in Council which was practically uncriticised and
unopposed; and the parliamentary government of England in one of
its most important functions did in fact reduce itself 'to a mere
signing machine.'

The causes of the change in the political atmosphere which made this
possible constitute one of the most interesting problems in English
history.

One cause is obvious. In 1867 Lord Derby's Reform Act had
suddenly transferred the ultimate control of the House of Commons
from the 'ten pound householders' in the boroughs to the working
men. The old 'governing classes' may well have felt that the patronage
which they could not much longer retain would be safer in the
hands of an independent Civil Service Commission, interpreting, like
a blinded figure of Justice, the verdict of Nature, than in those
of the dreaded 'caucuses,' which Mr. Schnadhorst was already
organising.

But one seems to detect a deeper cause of change than the mere
transference of voting power. The fifteen years from the Crimean
War to 1870 were in England a period of wide mental activity, during
which the conclusions of a few penetrating thinkers like Darwin
or Newman were discussed and popularised by a crowd of magazine
writers and preachers and poets. The conception was gaining ground
that it was upon serious and continued thought and not upon opinion
that the power to carry out our purposes, whether in politics or
elsewhere, must ultimately depend.

Carlyle in 1850 had asked whether 'democracy once modelled into
suffrages, furnished with ballot-boxes and such-like, will itself
accomplish the salutary universal change from Delusive to Real,'
and had answered, 'Your ship cannot double Cape Horn by its excellent
plans of voting.

The ship may vote this and that, above decks and below, in the
most harmonious exquisitely constitutional manner: the ship, to
get round Cape Horn, will find a set of conditions already voted
for, and fixed with adamantine rigour by the ancient Elemental
Powers, who are entirely careless how you vote. If you can, by
voting or without voting, ascertain those conditions, and valiantly
conform to them, you will get round the Cape: if you cannot--the
ruffian Winds will blow you ever back again

.'[91]
[91] _Latter Day Pamphlets, No. I, The Present Time_. (Chapman and
Hall, 1894, pp. 12 and 14.)

By 1870 Carlyle's lesson was already well started on its course from
paradox to platitude.

The most important single influence in that course had been the
growth of Natural Science. It was, for instance, in 1870 that
Huxley's _Lay Sermons_ were collected and published. People who
could not in 1850 understand Carlyle's distinction between the
Delusive and the Eeal, could not help understanding Huxley's
comparison of life and death to a game of chess with an unseen
opponent who never makes a mistake.[92] And Huxley's impersonal
Science seemed a more present aid in the voyage round Cape Horn
than Carlyle's personal and impossible Hero

.

[92] _Lay Sermont_, p. 31, 'A Liberal Education' (1868).

But the invention of a competitive Civil Service, when it had once
been made and adopted, dropped from the region of severe and
difficult thought in which it originated, and took its place in
our habitual political psychology.

We now half-consciously conceive of the Civil Service as an
unchanging fact whose good and bad points are to be taken or left
as a whole. Open competition has by the same process become a
principle, conceived of as applying to those cases to which it has
been in fact applied, and to no others. What is therefore for the
moment most needed, if we are to think fruitfully on the subject,
is that we should in our own minds break up this fact, and return
to the world of infinite possible variations.

We must think of the expedient of competition itself as varying in
a thousand different directions, and shading by imperceptible
gradations into other methods of appointment; and of the posts
offered for competition as differing each from all the rest, as
overlapping those posts for which competition in some form is
suitable though it has not yet been tried, and as touching, at the
marginal point on their curve, those posts for which competition
is unsuitable.

Directly we begin this process one fact becomes obvious. There is
no reason why the same system should not be applied to the appointment
of the officials of the local as to those of the central government.
It is an amazing instance of the intellectual inertia of the English
people that we have never seriously considered this point.

In America the term Civil Service is applied equally to both groups
of offices, and 'Civil Service principles' are understood to cover
State and Municipal as well as Federal appointments. The separation
of the two systems in our minds may, indeed, be largely due to the
mere accident that from historical reasons we call them by different
names.

As it is, the local authorities are (with the exception that certain
qualifications are required for teachers and medical officers)
left free to do as they will in making appointments. Perhaps half
a dozen Metropolitan and provincial local bodies have adopted timid
and limited schemes of open competition. But in all other cases the
local civil servants, who are already probably as numerous as those
of the central government,[93] are appointed under conditions
which, if the Government chose to create a Commission of Inquiry,
would probably be found to have reproduced many of the evils that
existed in the patronage of the central government before
1855.

[93] The figures in the census of 1901 were--National, 90,000;
Local, 71,000. But the local officials since then have, I believe,
increased much more rapidly than the national.

It would not, of course, be possible to appoint a separate body of
Civil Service Commissioners to hold a separate examination for each
locality, and difficulties would arise from the selection of officials
by a body responsible only to the central government, and out of
touch with the local body which controls, pays, and promotes them
when appointed.

But similar difficulties have been obviated by American Civil
Service Reformers, and a few days' hard thinking would suffice
to adapt the system to English local conditions.

One object aimed at by the creation of a competitive Civil Service
for the central government in England was the prevention of
corruption. It was made more difficult for representatives and
officials to conspire together in order to defraud the public,
when the official ceased to owe his appointment to the representative.

If an English member of parliament desired now to make money out
of his position, he would have to corrupt a whole series of officials
in no way dependent on his favour, who perhaps intensely dislike
the human type to which he belongs, and who would be condemned to
disgrace or imprisonment years after he had lost his seat if some
record of their joint misdoing were unearthed.

This precaution against corruption is needed even more clearly under
the conditions of local government. The expenditure of local bodies
in the United Kingdom is already much larger than that of the
central State, and is increasing at an enormously greater rate,
while the fact that most of the money is spent locally, and in
comparatively small sums, makes fraud easier.

English municipal life is, I believe, on the whole pure, but fraud
does occur, and it is encouraged by the close connection that may
exist between the officials and the representatives. A needy or
thick-skinned urban councillor or guardian may at any moment
tempt, or be tempted, by a poor relation who helped him at his
election, and for whom (perhaps as the result of a tacit understanding
that similar favours should be allowed to his colleagues), he
obtained a municipal post.

The railway companies, again, in England are coming every year more
and more under State control, but no statesman has ever attempted
to secure in their case, as was done in the case of the East India
Company a century ago, some reasonable standard of purity and
impartiality in appointments and promotion. Some few railways
have systems of competition for boy clerks, even more inadequate
than those carried on by municipalities; but one is told that
under most of the companies both appointment and promotion may be
influenced by the favour of directors or large shareholders.

We regulate the minutiae of coupling and signalling on the railways,
but do not realise that the safety of the public depends even more
directly upon their systems of patronage.

I feel completely unhinged by the news,
the boy has been such a favorite of mine ever since I came here; he
has fought hard against his faults, and had the makings of a very
fine character in him. God grant that he may be able to clear
himself of this terrible accusation!"

Ned's first examination was held on the morning after he had given
himself up, before Mr. Simmonds and Mr. Thompson. The sitting was
a private one. The man who first found Mr. Mulready's body testified
to the fact that a rope had been laid across the road. Constable
Williams proved that when he arrived upon the spot nothing had
been touched. Man and horse lay where they had fallen, the gig was
broken in pieces, a strong rope was stretched across the road. He
said that on taking the news to Mrs. Mulready he had learned from
the servants that the prisoner had not slept at home that night, and
that there had been a serious quarrel between him and the deceased
the previous evening.

After hearing this evidence Ned was asked if he was in a position
to account for the time which had elapsed between his leaving home
and his arrival at his nurse's cottage.

He replied that he could only say that he had been wandering on
the moor.

The case was remanded for a week, as the evidence of Mrs. Mulready
and the others in the house would be necessary, and it was felt
that a mother could not be called upon to testify against her son
with her husband lying dead in the house.

"I am sorry indeed to see you in this position," Mr. Simmonds said
to Ned. "My friendship for your late father, and I may say for
yourself, makes the position doubly painful to me, but I can only
do my duty. I should advise you to say nothing at this period of the
proceedings; but if there is anything which you think of importance
to say, and which will give another complexion to the case, I am
ready to hear it."

"I have nothing to say, sir," Ned said quietly, "except that I
am wholly innocent of the affair. As you may see by my face I was
brutally beaten by my stepfather on the evening before his death.
I went out of the house scarce knowing what I was doing. I had no
fixed intention of going anywhere or of doing anything, I simply
wanted to get away from home. I went on to the moors and wandered
about, I suppose for some hours. Then I threw myself down under
the shelter of a pile of stones and lay there awake till it was
morning. Then I determined to go to the house of my old nurse and
to stop there until I was fit to be seen. In the afternoon I heard
what had taken place here, and that I was accused of the murder,
and I at once came over here and gave myself up."

"As you are not in a position to prove what you state," Mr. Simmonds
said, "we have nothing to do but to remand the case until this day
week. I may say that I have received a letter from Dr. Green saying
that he and Mr. Porson are ready to become your bail to any amount;
but we could not think of accepting bail in a charge of murder."

Ned bowed and followed the constable without a word to the cells.
His appearance had not been calculated to create a favorable
impression. His clothes were stained and muddy; his lips were
swollen, his eyes were discolored and so puffed that he could
scarcely see between the lids, his forehead was bruised and cut in
several places. He had passed two sleepless nights; his voice had
lost its clearness of ring and was low and husky. Mr. Simmonds
shook his head to his fellow magistrate.

"I am afraid it's a bad case, Thompson, but the lad has been
terribly ill used, there is no doubt about that. It's a thousand
pities he takes up the line of denying it altogether. If he were to
say, what is no doubt the truth, that having been brutally beaten
he put the rope across the road intending to punish and even injure
his stepfather, but without any intention of killing him, I think
under the circumstances of extreme provocation, and what interest
we could bring to bear on the matter, he would get off the capital
punishment, for the jury would be sure to recommend him to mercy.
I shall privately let Green and Porson, who are evidently acting
as his friends in the matter, know that I think it would be far
better for him to tell the truth and throw himself on the mercy of
the crown."

"They may not find him guilty," Mr. Thompson said. "The jury will
see that he received very strong provocation; and after all, the
evidence is, so far as we know at present, wholly circumstantial,
and unless the prosecution can bring home to him the possession
of the rope, it is likely enough they will give him the benefit of
the doubt."

"His life is ruined anyhow," Mr. Simmonds said. "Poor lad! poor
lad! Another fortnight and I was going to apply for a commission
for him. I wish to heavens I had done so at Christmas, and then
all this misery would have been spared."

As soon as Ned had been led back to the cell Mr. Porson obtained
permission to visit him. He found him in a strange humor.

"Well, my poor boy," he began, "this is a terrible business."

"Who do you mean it is a terrible business for, Mr. Porson, me or
him?"

Ned spoke in a hard unnatural voice, without the slightest tone of
trouble or emotion. Mr. Porson perceived at once that his nerves
were brought up to such a state of tension by the events of the
preceding forty-eight hours that he was scarce responsible for what
he was saying.

"I think I meant for you, Ned. I cannot pretend to have any feeling
for the man who is dead, especially when I look at your face."

"Yes, it is not a nice position for me," Ned said coldly, "just
at the age of seventeen to be suspected of the murder of one's
stepfather, and such a nice stepfather too, such a popular man in
the town! And not only suspected, but with a good chance of being
hung for it."

"Ned, my dear boy," Mr. Porson said kindly, "don't talk in that
way. You know that we, your friends, are sure that you did not do
it."

"Are you quite sure, sir?" Ned said. "I am not quite sure myself.
I know I should have done it if I had had the chance. I thought
over all sorts of ways in which I might kill him, and I wouldn't
quite swear that I did not think of this plan and carry it out,
though it doesn't quite seem to me that I did. I have no very
definite idea what happened that night, and certainly could give
but a vague account of myself from the time I left the house till
next morning, when I found myself lying stiff and half frozen on
the moor. Anyhow, whether I killed him or not it's all the same. I
should have done so if I could. And if some one else has saved me
the trouble I suppose I ought to feel obliged to him."

Mr. Porson saw that in Ned's present state it was useless to
talk to him. Two nights without sleep, together with the intense
excitement he had gone through, had worked his brain to such a
state of tension that he was not responsible for what he was saying.
Further conversation would do him harm rather than good. What he
required was rest and, if possible, sleep. Mr. Porson therefore
only said quietly:

"We will not talk about it now, Ned; your brain is over excited with
all you have gone through. What you want now is rest and sleep."

"I don't feel sleepy, Mr. Porson. I don't feel as if I should ever
get to sleep again. I don't look like it, do I?"

"No, Ned, I don't think you do at present; but I wish you did,
my boy. Well, remember that we, your old friends, all believe you
innocent of this thing, and that we will spare no pains to prove
it to the world. I see," he said, looking at the table, "that you
have not touched your breakfast. I am not surprised that you could
not eat it. I will see that you have a cup of really good tea sent
you in."

"No," Ned said with a laugh which it pained Mr. Porson to hear, "I
have not eaten since I had tea at home. It was only the day before
yesterday, but it seems a year."

On leaving the cell Mr. Porson went to Dr. Green, who lived only
three or four doors away, told him of the state in which he had found
Ned, and begged him to give him a strong and, as far as possible,
tasteless sedative, and to put it in a cup of tea.

"Yes, that will be the best thing," the doctor replied. "I had
better not go and see him, for talking will do him harm rather than
good. We shall be having him on our hands with brain fever if this
goes on. I will go round with the tea myself to the head constable
and tell him that no one must on any account be permitted to see
Ned, and that rest and quiet are absolutely necessary for him. I
will put a strong dose of opium into the tea."

Ten minutes later Dr. Green called upon the chief constable and
told him that he feared from what he had heard from Mr. Porson that
Ned was in a very critical state, and that unless he got rest and
sleep he would probably have an attack of brain fever, even if his
mind did not give way altogether.

"I was intending to have him removed at once," the officer said,
"to a comfortable room at my own house. He was only placed where
he is temporarily. I exchanged a few words with him after the
examination and was struck myself with the strangeness of his tone.
Won't you see him?"

"I think that any talk is bad for him," the doctor said. "I have
put a strong dose of opium in this tea, and I hope it will send
him off to sleep. When he recovers I will see him."

"I think, doctor," the constable said significantly, "it would be
a good thing if you were to see him at once. You see, if things go
against him, and between ourselves the case is a very ugly one, if
you could get in the box and say that you saw him here, and that,
in your opinion, his mind was shaken, and that as likely as not
he had not been responsible for his actions from the time he left
his mother's house, it might save his life."

"That is a capital idea," Dr. Green said, "and Porson's evidence
would back mine. Yes, I will go in and see him even if my visit
does do him harm."

"I will move him into his new quarters first," the officer said;
"then if he drinks the tea he may, if he feels sleepy, throw himself
on the bed and go off. He will be quiet and undisturbed there."

Two or three minutes later the doctor was shown into a comfortable
room. A fire was burning brightly, and the tea was placed on a
little tray with a new roll and a pat of butter.

Ned's mood had somewhat changed. He received the doctor with a
boisterous laugh.

"How are you, doctor? Here I am, you see, monarch of all I survey.
This is the first time you have visited me in a room which I could
consider entirely my own. Not a bad place either."

"I hope you will not be here long, Ned," Dr. Green said, humoring
him. "We shall all do our best to get you out as soon as we can."

"I don't think your trying will be of much use, doctor; but what's
the odds as long as you are happy!"

"That's right, my boy, nothing like looking at matters cheerfully.
You know, lad, how warmly all your old friends are with you. Would
you like me to bring Charlie next time I come?"

"No, no, doctor," Ned said almost with a cry. "No. I have thought
it over, and Charlie must not see me. It will do him harm and I
shall break down. I shall have to see him at the trial--of course
he must be there--that will be bad enough."

"Very well," the doctor said quietly, "just as you like, Ned. I
shall be seeing you every day, and will give him news of you. I am
going to see him now."

"Tell him I am well and comfortable and jolly," Ned said recklessly.

"I will tell him you are comfortable, Ned, and I should like to
tell him that you had eaten your breakfast."

"Oh, yes! Tell him that. Say I ate it voraciously." And he swallowed
down the cup of tea and took a bite at the roll.

"I will tell him," Dr. Green said. "I will come in again this
evening, and will perhaps bring in with me a little medicine. You
will be all the better for a soothing draught."

"I want no draughts," Ned said. "Why should I? I am as right as
ninepence."

"Very well. We will see," the doctor said. "Now I must be going my
rounds."

As soon as he had gone Ned began pacing up and down the room,
as he had done the whole of the past night without intermission.
Gradually, however, the powerful narcotic began to take effect.
His walk became slower, his head began to droop, and at last he
stumbled toward the bed in the corner of the room, threw himself
heavily down, and was almost instantly sound asleep. Five minutes
later the door opened quietly and Dr. Green entered.

He had been listening outside the door, had noticed the change in
the character of Ned's walk, and having heard the fall upon the
bed, and had no fear of his rousing himself at his entrance. The
boy was lying across the bed, and the doctor, who was a powerful
man, lifted him gently and laid him with his head upon the pillow.
He felt his pulse, and lifted his eyelid.

"It was a strong dose," he said to himself, "far stronger than
I should have dared give him at any other time, but nothing less
would have acted, with his brain in such an excited state. I must
keep in the town today and look in from time to time and see how
he is going on. It may be that I shall have to take steps to rouse
him."

At the next visit Dr. Green looked somewhat anxious as he listened
to the boy's breathing and saw how strongly he was under the
influence of the narcotic.

"Under any other circumstances," he said to the chief constable,
who had entered the room with him, "I should take strong measures
to arouse him at once, but as it is I will risk it. I know it is a
risk both for him and me, for a nice scrape I should get in if he
slipped through my fingers; but unless he gets sleep I believe his
brain will go, and anything is better than that."

"Yes, poor lad," the officer said. "When I look at his face I confess
my sympathies are all with him rather than with the man he killed."

"I don't think he killed him," the doctor said quietly. "I am almost
sure he didn't."

"You don't say so!" the chief constable said, surprised. "I had
not the least doubt about it."

"No. Nobody seems to have the least doubt about it," the doctor
said bitterly. "I am almost sure that he had nothing to do with
it; but if he did it it was when he was in a state of such passion
that he was practically irresponsible for his actions. At any rate,
I am prepared to swear that his mind is unhinged at present. I will
go back now and fetch two or three books and will then sit by him.
He needs watching."

For several hours the doctor sat reading by Ned's bedside. From
time to time he leaned over the lad, listened to his breathing,
felt his pulse, and occasionally lifted his eyelid. After one of
these examinations, late in the afternoon, he rose with a sigh of
relief, pulled down the blinds, gently drew the curtains, and then,
taking his books, went down and noiselessly closed the door after
him.

"Thank God! he will do now," he said to the chief constable; "but
it has been a very near squeak, and I thought several times I should
have to take immediate steps to wake him. However, the effects are
passing off, and he will soon be in a natural sleep. Pray let the
house be kept as quiet as possible, and let no one go near him.
The chances are he will sleep quietly till morning."

The doctor called again the last thing that evening, but was told
that no stir had been heard in Ned's room, and the same report met
him when he came again next morning.

"That is capital," he said. "Let him sleep on. He has a long arrears
to make up. I shall not be going out today; please send in directly
he wakes."

"Very well," the officer replied. "I will put a man outside his
door, and the moment a move is heard I will let you know."


CHAPTER XIV: COMMITTED FOR TRIAL


It was not until after midday that the message arrived, and Dr.
Green at once went in. Ned was sitting on the side of the bed, a
constable having come off with the message as soon as he heard him
make the first move.

"Well, Ned, how are you now?" Dr. Green asked cheerfully as he
went to the window and drew back the curtains. "Had a good sleep,
my boy, and feel all the better for it, I hope."

"Yes, I think I have been asleep," Ned said in a far more natural
voice than that of the previous day. "How did the curtains get
drawn?"

"I drew them, Ned. I looked in in the afternoon, and found you fast
asleep, so I darkened the room."

"Why, what time is it now?" Ned asked.

"Half past twelve, Ned."

"Half past twelve! Why, how can that be?"

"Why, my boy, you have had twenty-two hours' sleep."

Ned gave an exclamation of astonishment.

"You had two nights' arrears to make up for, and nature is not to
be outraged in that way with impunity. I am very thankful that you
had a good night, for I was really anxious about you yesterday."

"I feel rather heavy and stupid now," Ned said, "but I am all the
better for my sleep.

"Let me think," he began, looking round the room, for up till now
remembrance of the past had not come back again, "what am I doing
here? Oh! I remember now."

"You are here, my boy, on a charge of which I have no doubt we shall
prove you innocent. Of course Porson and I and all your friends
know you are innocent, but we have got to prove it to the world,
and we shall want all your wits to help us. But we needn't talk
about that now. The first thing for you to do is to put your head
in a basin of water. By the time you have had a good wash your
breakfast will be here. I told my old cook to prepare it when I came
out, and as you are a favorite of hers I have no doubt it will be
a good one. After you have discussed that we can talk matters over.
I sent my boy down to the school just now to ask Porson to come
up here in half an hour. Then we three can lay our heads together
and see what are the best steps to take."

"Let me see," Ned said thoughtfully. "Was I dreaming, or have I
seen Mr. Porson since I came here?"

"You are not dreaming, Ned; but the fact is, you were not quite
yourself yesterday. The excitement you had gone through had been
too much for you."

"It all seems a dream to me," Ned said in a hopeless tone, "a
confused, muddled sort of dream."

"Don't think about it now, Ned," the doctor said cheerfully,
"but get off your things at once, and set to and sluice your head
well with water. I will be back in a quarter of an hour with the
breakfast."

At the end of that time the doctor returned, his boy carrying a tray.
The constable on duty took it from him, and would have carried it
into Ned's room, but the doctor said:

"Give it me, Walker. I will take it in myself. I don't want him to
see any of you just at present. His head's in a queer state, and
the less he is impressed with the fact that he is in charge the
better."

Dr. Green found Ned looking all the better for his wash. The swelling
of his face had now somewhat abated, but the bruises were showing
out in darker colors than before; still he looked fresher and
better.

"Here is your breakfast, Ned, and if you don't enjoy it Jane will
be terribly disappointed."

"I shall enjoy it, doctor. I feel very weak; but I do think I am
hungry."

"You ought to be, Ned, seeing that you have eaten nothing for two
days."

The doctor removed the cloth which covered the tray. The meal consisted
of three kidneys and two eggs, and a great pile of buttered toast.
The steam curled out of the spout of a dainty china teapot, and
there was a small jug brimful of cream.

The tears came into Ned's eyes.

"Oh! how good you are, doctor!"

"Nonsense, good!" the doctor said; "come, eat away, that will be
the best thanks to Jane and me."

Ned needed no pressing. He ate languidly at first; but his appetite
came as he went on, and he drank cup after cup of the fragrant
tea, thick with cream. With the exception of one egg, he cleared
the tray.

"There, doctor!" he said, as he pushed back his chair; "if you are
as satisfied as I am you must be contented indeed."

"I am, Ned; that meal has done us both a world of good. Ah! here
is Porson, just arrived at the right moment."

"How are you, Ned?" the master asked heartily.

"I am quite well, sir, thank you. Sleep and the doctor, and the
doctor's cook, have done wonders for me. I hear you came yesterday,
sir, but I don't seem to remember much about it."

"Yes, I was here, Ned," Mr. Porson said, "but you were pretty well
stupid from want of sleep. However, I am glad to see you quite
yourself again this morning."

"And now," the doctor said, "we three must put our heads together
and see what is to be done. You understand, Ned, how matters stand,
don't you?"

"Yes, sir," Ned said after a pause; "I seem to know that some one
said that Mr. Mulready was dead, and some one thought that I had
killed him, and then I started to come over to give myself up. Oh!
yes, I remember that, and then there was an examination before the
magistrates. I remember it all; but it seems just as if it had been
a dream."

"Yes, that is what happened, Ned, and naturally it seems a dream
to you, because you were so completely overcome by excitement and
want of food and sleep that you were scarcely conscious of what
was passing. Now we want you to think over quietly, as well as you
can, what you did when you left home."

Ned sat for a long time without speaking.

"It seems all confused," he said at last. "I don't even remember
going out of the house. I can remember his striking me in the face
again and again, and then I heard my mother scream, and everything
seems to have become misty. But I know I was walking about; I
know that I was worrying to get at him, and that if I had met him
I should have attacked him, and if I had had anything in my hand
I should have killed him."

"But you don't remember doing anything, Ned? You cannot recall that
you went anywhere and got a rope and fastened it across the road
with the idea of upsetting his gig on the way back from the mill?"

"No, sir," Ned said decidedly; "I can't recollect anything of that
at all. I am quite sure if I had done that I should remember it;
for I seem to remember, now I think of it, a good deal of what I
did. Yes, I went up through Varley; the lights weren't out, and I
wondered what Bill would say if I were to knock at his door and he
opened it and saw what a state my face was in. Then I went out on
the moor, and it seems to me that I walked about for hours, and
the longer I walked the more angry I was. At last--it could not
have been long before morning, I think--I lay down for a time,
and then when it was light I made up my mind to go over and see
Abijah. I knew she would be with me. That's all I remember about
it. Does my mother think I did it?"

Dr. Green hesitated a moment.

"Your mother is not in a state to think one way or the other, Ned;
she is in such a state of grief that she hardly knows what she is
saying or doing."

In fact Mrs. Mulready entertained no doubt whatever upon the
subject, and had continued to speak of Ned's wickedness until Dr.
Green that morning had lost all patience with her, and told her she
ought to be ashamed of herself to be the first to accuse her son,
and that if he was hung she would only have herself to blame for
it.

Ned guessed by the doctor's answer that his mother was against him.

"It is curious," he said, "she did not take on so after my father's
death, and he was always kind and good to her, while this man was
just the reverse."

"There's never any understanding women," Dr. Green said testily,
"and your mother is a singularly inconsequent and weak specimen of
her sex. Well, Ned, and so that is all you can tell us about the
way you passed that unfortunate evening. What a pity it is, to
be sure, that you did not rouse up your friend Bill. His evidence
would probably have cleared you at once. As it is, of course we
believe your story, my boy. The question is, will the jury believe
it?"

"I don't seem to care much whether they do or not," Ned said sadly,
"unless we find the man who did it. Every one will think me guilty
even if I am acquitted. Fancy going on living all one's life and
knowing that everyone one meets is thinking to himself, 'That is
the man who killed his stepfather'--it would be better to be hung
at once."

"You must look at it in a more hopeful way than that, Ned," Mr.
Porson said kindly; "many will from the first believe, with us,
that you are innocent. You will live it down, my boy, and sooner
or later we may hope and believe that God will suffer the truth to
be known. At the worst, you know you need not go on living here.
The world is wide, and you can go where your story is unknown.

"Do not look on the darkest side of things. And now, for the
present, I have brought you down a packet of books. If I were you
I would try to read--anything is better than going on thinking.
You will want all your wits about you, and the less you worry your
mind the better. Mr. Wakefield will represent you at the examination
next week; but I do not see that there will be much for him to
do, as I fear there is little doubt that you will be committed for
trial, when of course we shall get the best legal assistance for
you. I will tell him exactly what you have said to me, and he can
then come and see you or not as he likes. I shall come in every
day. I have already obtained permission from the magistrates to do
so. I shall go now and see Charlie and tell him all about it. It
will cheer him very much, poor boy. You may be sure he didn't think
you guilty; still, your assurance that you know nothing whatever
about it will be a comfort to him."

"Yes," Ned said, "Charlie knows that I would not tell a lie to save
my life, though he knows that I might possibly kill any one when
I am in one of my horrible tempers; and I did think I was getting
over them, Mr. Porson!" he broke out with a half sob. "I have really
tried hard."

"I know you have, Ned. I am sure you have done your best, my boy,
and you have been sorely tried; but, now, I must be off. Keep up
your spirits, hope for the best, and pray God to strengthen you to
bear whatever may be in store for you, and to clear you from this
charge."

That evening when Mr. Porson was in his study the servant came in
and said that a young man wished to speak to him.

"Who is it, Mary?"

"He says his name is Bill Swinton, sir."

"Oh! I know," the master said; "show him in."

Bill was ushered in.

"Sit down, Bill," Mr. Porson said; "I have heard of you as a friend
of Sankey's. I suppose you have come to speak to me about this
terrible business?"

"Ay," Bill said, "that oi be, sir, seeing as how Ned always spake
of you as a true friend, and loiked you hearty. They say too as
you ha' engaged Lawyer Wakefield to defend him."

"That is so, Bill. Would a voter be more likely to form a thoughtful
and public-spirited decision if, after it was formed, he voted
publicly or secretly? Most of the followers of Bentham advocated
secrecy.

Since men acted in accordance with their ideas of pleasure and pain,
and since landlords and employers were able, in spite of any laws
against intimidation, to bring 'sinister' motives to bear upon
voters whose votes were known, the advisability of secret voting
seemed to follow as a corollary from utilitarianism.

John Stuart Mill, however, whose whole philosophical life consisted
of a slowly developing revolt of feeling against the utilitarian
philosophy to which he gave nominal allegiance till the end, opposed
the Ballot on grounds which really involved the abandonment of the
whole utilitarian position.

If ideas of pleasure and pain be taken as equivalent to those
economic motives which can be summed up as the making or losing
money, it is not true, said Mill, that even under a system of open
voting such ideas are the main cause which induce the ordinary
citizen to vote. 'Once in a thousand times, as in the case of peace
or war, or of taking off taxes, the thought may cross him that he
shall save a few pounds or shillings in his year's expenditure
if the side he votes for wins.'

He votes as a matter of fact in accordance with ideas of right or
wrong. 'His motive, when it is an honourable one, is the desire to
do right. We will not term it patriotism or moral principle, in
order not to ascribe to the voter's frame of mind a solemnity
that does not belong to it.' But ideas of right and wrong are
strengthened and not weakened by the knowledge that we act under
the eyes of our neighbours. 'Since then the real motive which
induces a man to vote honestly is for the most part not an interested
motive in any form, but a social one, the point to be decided is
whether the social feelings connected with an act and the sense
of social duty in performing it, can be expected to be as powerful
when the act is done in secret, and he can neither be admired for
disinterested, nor blamed for mean and selfish conduct.

But this question is answered as soon as stated. When in every other
act of a man's life which concerns his duty to others, publicity
and criticism ordinarily improve his conduct, it cannot be that
voting for a member of parliament is the single case in which he
will act better for being sheltered against all comment.'[75]
[75] Letter to the _Reader_, Ap. 29, 1865, signed J.S.M., quoted
as Mill's by Henry Romilly in pamphlet, _Public Responsibility
and Vote by Ballot_, pp. 89, 90.

Almost the whole civilised world has now adopted the secret Ballot; so
that it would seem that Mill was wrong, and that he was wrong
in spite of the fact that, as against the consistent utilitarians,
his description of average human motive was right.

But Mill, though he soon ceased to be in the original sense of
the word a utilitarian, always remained an intellectualist, and
he made in the case of the Ballot the old mistake of giving too
intellectual and logical an account of political impulses. It is
true that men do not act politically upon a mere stock-exchange
calculation of material advantages and disadvantages. They generally
form vague ideas of right and wrong in accordance with vague trains
of inference as to the good or evil results of political action.

If an election were like a jury trial, such inferences might be
formed by a process which would leave a sense of fundamental conviction
in the mind of the thinker, and might be expressed under conditions
of religious and civic solemnity to which publicity would lend an
added weight, as it does in those 'acts of a man's life which
concern his duty to others,' to which Mill refers--the paying of a
debt of honour, for instance, or the equitable treatment of one's
relatives. But under existing electoral conditions, trains of
thought, formed as they often are by the half-conscious suggestion
of newspapers or leaflets, are weak as compared with the things
of sense.
Apart from direct intimidation the voice of the canvasser, the
excitement of one's friends, the look of triumph on the face of
one's opponents, or the vague indications of disapproval by the
rulers of one's village, are all apt to be stronger than the shadowy
and uncertain conclusions of one's thinking brain.

To make the ultimate vote secret, gives therefore thought its best
chance, and at least requires the canvasser to produce in the
voter a belief which, however shadowy, shall be genuine, rather
than to secure by the mere manipulation of momentary impulse a
promise which is shamefacedly carried out in public because it is
a promise.

Lord Courtney is the last survivor in public life of the personal
disciples of Mill, and at present he is devoting himself to a
campaign in favour of 'proportional representation,' in which,
as it seems to me, the old intellectualist misconceptions reappear
in another form.

He proposes to deal with two difficulties, first, that under the existing
system of the 'single ballot' a minority in any single-member
constituency may, if there are more candidates than two, return
its representative, and secondly, that certain citizens who think
for themselves instead of allowing party leaders to think for
them--the Free-Trade Unionists, for instance, or the High-Church
Liberals--have, as a rule, no candidate representing their own
opinions for whom they can vote. He proposes, therefore, that each
voter shall mark in order of preference a ballot paper containing
lists of candidates for large constituencies, each of which returns
six or seven members, Manchester with its eight seats being given
as an example.

This system, according to Lord Courtney, 'will lead to the dropping
of the fetters which now interfere with free thought, and will set
men and women on their feet, erect, intelligent, independent

.

'[76] But the arguments used in urging it all seem to me to
suffer from the fatal defect of dwelling solely on the process by
which opinion is ascertained, and ignoring the process by which
opinion is created.

If at the assizes all the jurors summoned were collected into one
large jury, and if they all voted Guilty or Not Guilty on all the
cases, after a trial in which all the counsel were heard and all
the witnesses were examined simultaneously, verdicts would indeed
no longer depend on the accidental composition of the separate
juries; but the process of forming verdicts would be made, to a
serious degree, less effective

.

[76] Address delivered by Lord Courtney at the Mechanics' Institute,
Stockport, March 22, 1907, p. 6.

The English experiment on which the Proportional Representation
Society mainly relies is an imaginary election, held in November
1906 by means of ballot papers distributed through members and
friends of the society and through eight newspapers.

'The constituency,' we are told, 'was supposed to return five
members; the candidates, twelve in number, were politicians whose
names might be expected to be known to the ordinary newspaper reader,
and who might be considered as representative of some of the main
divisions of public opinion

.'[77] The names were, in fact, Sir A. Acland Hood, Sir H.
Campbell-Banner-man, Sir Thomas P. Whittaker, and Lord Hugh Cecil,
with Messrs.

Richard Bell, Austen Chamberlain, Winston Churchill, Haldane,
Keir Hardie, Arthur Henderson, Bonar Law, and Philip Snowden.

In all, 12,418 votes were collected.

[77] Proportional Representation Pamphlet, No. 4, p. 6.

I was one of the 12,418, and in my case the ballot papers were
distributed at the end of a dinner party.

No discussion of the various candidates took place with the single
exception that, finding my memory of Mr. Arthur Henderson rather
vague, I whispered a question about him to my next neighbour.

We were all politicians, and nearly all the names were those of
persons belonging to that small group of forty or fifty whose faces
the caricaturists of the Christmas numbers expect their readers to
recognise.

At our dinner party not much unreality was introduced by the
intellectualist assumption that the list of names were, as a Greek
might have said, the same, 'to us,' as they were 'in themselves.'

But an ordinary list of candidates' names presented to an ordinary
voter is 'to him' simply a piece of paper with black marks on it,
with which he will either do nothing or do as he is told.

The Proportional Representation Society seem to assume that a sufficient
preliminary discussion will be carried on in the newspapers, and
that not only the names and party programmes but the reasons for
the selection of a particular person as candidate and for all the
items in his programme will be known to 'the ordinary newspaper
reader,' who is assumed to be identical with the ordinary citizen.

But even if one neglects the political danger arising from the modern
concentration of newspaper property in the hands of financiers who
may use their control for frankly financial purposes, it is not
true that each man now reads or is likely to read a newspaper devoted
to a single candidature or to the propaganda of a small political
group.

Men read newspapers for news, and, since the collection of news is
enormously costly, nine-tenths of the electorate read between
them a small number of established papers advocating broad party
principles.

These newspapers, at any rate during a general election, only
refer to those particular contests in which the party leaders are
not concerned as matters of casual information, until, on the day
of the poll, they issue general directions 'How to vote.'

The choice of candidates is left by the newspapers to the local
party organisations, and if any real knowledge of the personality
of a candidate or of the details of his programme is to be made
part of the consciousness of the ordinary voter, this must still
be done by local electioneering in each constituency, _i.e._ by
meetings and canvassing and the distribution of 'election literature.'
Lord Courtney's proposal, even if it only multiplied the size of the
ordinary constituency by six, would multiply by at least six the
difficulty of effective electioneering, and even if each candidate
were prepared to spend six times as much money at every contest, he
could not multiply by six the range of his voice or the number of
meetings which he could address in a day.

These considerations were brought home to me by my experience of
the nearest approximation to Proportional Representation which has
ever been actually adopted in England.

In 1870 Lord Frederick Cavendish induced the House of Commons to
adopt 'plural voting' for School Board elections.

I fought in three London School Board elections as a candidate
and in two others as a political worker. In London the legal
arrangement was that each voter in eleven large districts should
be given about five or six votes, and that the same number of
seats should be assigned to the district. In the provinces a town
or parish was given a number of seats from five to fifteen. The
voter might 'plump' all his votes on one candidate or might
distribute them as he liked among any of them.

This left the local organisers both in London and the country with
two alternatives. They might form the list of party candidates in
each district into a recognisable entity like the American
'ticket' and urge all voters to vote, on party lines, for the
Liberal or Conservative 'eight' or 'five' or 'three.'

If they did this they were saved the trouble involved in any serious
attempt to instruct voters as to the individual personalities of
the members of the list. Or they might practically repeal the
plural voting law, split up the constituency by a voluntary
arrangement into single member sections, and spend the weeks
of the election in making one candidate for each party known
in each section. The first method was generally adopted in the
provinces, and had all the good and bad effects from a party
point of view of the French _scrutin de liste_. The second method
was adopted in London, and perhaps tended to make the London
elections turn more than they otherwise would have done upon the
qualities of individual candidates.

Whichever system was adopted by the party leaders was acted
upon by practically all the voters, with the exception of the
well-organised Roman Catholics, who voted for a Church and not a
person, and of those who plumped for representatives of the special
interests of the teachers or school-keepers.

If Lord Courtney's proposal is adopted for parliamentary elections,
it is the 'ticket' system which, owing to the intensity of party
feeling, will be generally used. Each voter will bring into the
polling booth a printed copy of the ballot paper marked with the
numbers 1, 2, 3, etc., according to the decision of his party
association, and will copy the numbers onto the unmarked official
paper.

The essential fact, that is to say, on which party tactics would
depend under Lord Courtney's scheme is not that the votes would
finally be added up in this way or in that, but that the voter would
be required to arrange in order more names than there is time during
the election to turn for him into real persons.

Lord Courtney, in speaking on the second reading of his Municipal
Representation Bill in the House of Lords,[78] contrasted his
proposed system with that used in the London Borough Council
elections, according to which a number of seats are assigned to
each ward and the voter may give one vote each, without indication
of preference, to that number of candidates.

It is true that the electoral machinery for the London Boroughs
is the worst to be found anywhere in the world outside of America.
I have before me my party ballot-card instructing me how to vote
at the last Council election in my present borough.

There were six seats to be filled in my ward and fifteen candidates.
I voted as I was told by my party organisation giving one vote each
to six names, not one of which I remembered to have seen before.

If there had been one seat to be filled, and, say, three candidates,
I should have found out enough about one candidate at least to
give a more or less independent vote; and the local party committees
would have known that I and others would do so.

Bach party would then have circulated a portrait and a printed
account of their candidate and of his principles, and would have
had a strong motive for choosing a thoroughly reputable person.

But I could not give the time necessary for forming a real opinion
on fifteen candidates, who volunteered no information about
themselves.

I therefore, and probably twenty-nine out of every thirty of those
who voted in the borough, voted a 'straight ticket.'

If for any reason the party committee put, to use an Americanism,
a 'yellow dog' among the list of names, I voted for the yellow dog

.

[78] April 30, 1907.

Under Lord Courtney's system I should have had to vote on the same
ticket, with the same amount of knowledge, but should have copied
down different marks from my party card.

On the assumption, that is to say, that every name on a long ballot
paper represents an individual known to every voter there would
be an enormous difference between Lord Courtney's proposed system
and the existing system in the London Boroughs.

But if the fact is that the names in each case are mere names, there
is little effective difference between the working of the two
systems until the votes are counted.

Ned looked again at the letter, and a shade came over his face now
that he looked at it carefully. He recognized in a moment Bill's
handwriting. He had himself instructed him by setting him copies
at the time he was laid up with the broken leg, and Bill had stuck
to it so far that he was able to read and write in a rough way.

Ned's first impulse was to tell Mr. Wakefield who had written the
note, but he thought that it might get Bill into a scrape. It was
evidently written by his friend, solely to create an impression in
his favor, and he wondered that such an idea should have entered
Bill's head, which was by no means an imaginative one. As to the
young fellow having killed Mr. Mulready it did not even occur to
Ned for a moment.

As, seated by the side of the chief constable, he drove along that
afternoon, Ned turned it over anxiously in his mind whether it would
be honest to allow this letter to be produced in court, knowing
that it was only the device of a friend, Finally he decided to let
matters take their course.

"I am innocent," he said to himself, "and what I have got to live
for is to clear myself from this charge. Mr. Wakefield said this
letter would not be of value one way or the other, and if I were
to say Bill wrote it he might insist upon Bill's being arrested,
and he might find it just as hard to prove his innocence as I do."

The assizes were to come on in three weeks. Ned was treated with more
consideration than was generally the case with prisoners in those
days, when the jails were terribly mismanaged; but Mr. Simmonds had
written to the governor of the prison asking that every indulgence
that could be granted should be shown to Ned, and Mr. Porson had
also, before the lad left Marsden, insisted on his accepting a sum
of money which would enable him to purchase such food and comforts
as were permitted to be bought by prisoners, able to pay for them,
awaiting their trial.

Thus Ned obtained the boon of a separate cell, he was allowed to
have books and writing materials, and to have his meals in from
outside the prison.

The days, however, passed but slowly, and Ned was heartily glad
when the time for the assizes was at hand and his suspense was to
come to an end. His case came on for trial on the second day of
the sessions. On the previous evening he received a visit from Mr.
Wakefield, who told him that Mr. Porson, Dr. Green and Charlie had
come over in the coach with him.

"You will be glad to hear that your mother will not be called,"
the lawyer said. "The prosecution, I suppose, thought that it would
have a bad effect to call upon a mother to give evidence against
her son; besides, she could prove no more than your brother will
be able to do. If they had called her, Green would have given her a
certificate that she was confined to her bed and could not possibly
attend. However I am glad they did not call her, for the absence of
a witness called against the prisoner, but supposed to be favorable
to him, always counts against him."

"And you have no clue as who did it, Mr. Wakefield?"

"Not a shadow," the lawyer replied. "We have had a man down from
town ever since you have been away, but we have done no good.
He went up to Varley and tried to get into the confidence of the
croppers, but somehow they suspected him to be a spy sent down
to inquire into the Luddite business, and he had a pretty narrow
escape of his life. He was terribly knocked about before he could
get out of the public house, and they chased him all the way down
into Marsden. Luckily he was a pretty good runner, and had the
advantage of having lighter shoes on than they had, or they would
have killed him to a certainty. No, my lad, we can prove nothing;
we simply take the ground that you didn't do it; that he was
a threatened man and unpopular with his hands; and there is not a
shadow of proof against you except the fact that he had ill treated
you just before."

"And that I was known to bear him ill will," Ned said sadly.

"Yes, of course that's unfortunate," the lawyer said uneasily. "Of
course they will make a point of that, but that proves nothing.
Most boys of your age do object to a stepfather. Of course we shall
put it to the jury that there is nothing uncommon about that. Oh!
no, I do not think they have a strong case; and Mr. Grant, who is
our leader, and who is considered the best man on the circuit, is
convinced we shall get a verdict."

"But what do people think at Marsden, Mr. Wakefield? Do people
generally think I am guilty?"

"Pooh! pooh!" Mr. Wakefield said hastily. "What does it matter
what people think? Most people are fools. The question we have to
concern ourselves with is what do the jury think, or at any rate
with what they think is proved, and Mr. Grant says he does not
believe any jury could find you guilty upon the evidence. He will
work them up. I know he is a wonderful fellow for working up."

Mr. Grant's experience of juries turned out to be well founded.
Ned, as he stood pale, but firm and composed in the dock, felt that
his case was well nigh desperate when he heard the speech for the
prosecution: his long and notorious ill will against the deceased,
"one of the most genial and popular gentlemen in that part of
the great county of Yorkshire," was dwelt upon. Evidence would be
brought to show that even on the occasion of his mother's marriage the
happiness of the ceremonial was marred by the scowls and menacing
appearance of this most unfortunate and ill conditioned lad; how some
time after the marriage this young fellow had violently assaulted
his stepfather, and had used words in the hearing of the servants
which could only be interpreted as a threat upon his life. This
indeed, was not the first time that this boy had been placed in
the dock as a prisoner. Upon a former occasion he had been charged
with assaulting and threatening the life of his schoolmaster, and
although upon that occasion he had escaped the consequences of his
conduct by what must now be considered as the ill timed leniency
of the magistrates, yet the facts were undoubted and undenied.

Then the counsel proceeded to narrate the circumstances of the
evening up to the point when Mr. Mulready left the house.

"Beyond that point, gentlemen of the jury," the counsel said,
"nothing certain is known. The rest must be mere conjecture; and
yet it is not hard to imagine the facts. The prisoner was aware
that the deceased had gone to the mill, which is situated a mile
and a half from the town. You will be told the words which the
prisoner used: 'It will be my turn next time, and when it comes I
will kill you, you brute.'

"With these words on his lips, with this thought in his heart, he
started for the mill. What plan he intended to adopt, what form
of vengeance he intended to take, it matters not, but assuredly it
was with thoughts of vengeance in his heart that he followed that
dark and lonely road to the mill. Once there he would have hung
about waiting for his victim to issue forth. It may be that he had
picked up a heavy stone, may be that he had an open knife in his
hand; but while he was waiting, probably his foot struck against a
coil of rope, which, as you will hear, had been carelessly thrown
out a few minutes before.

"Then doubtless the idea of a surer method of vengeance than that
of which he had before thought came into his mind. A piece of the
rope was hastily cut off, and with this the prisoner stole quietly
off until he reached the spot where two gates facing each other on
opposite sides of the lane afforded a suitable hold for the rope.
Whether after fastening it across the road he remained at the spot
to watch the catastrophe which he had brought about, or whether he
hurried away into the darkness secure of his vengeance we cannot
tell, nor does it matter. You will understand, gentlemen, that we
are not in a position to prove these details of the tragedy. I am
telling you the theory of the prosecution as to how it happened.
Murders are not generally done in open day with plenty of trustworthy
witnesses looking on. It is seldom that the act of slaying is
witnessed by human eye. The evidence must therefore to some extent
be circumstantial. The prosecution can only lay before juries the
antecedent circumstances, show ill will and animus, and lead the
jury step by step up to the point when the murderer and the victim
meet in some spot at some time when none but the all seeing eye
of God is upon them. This case is, as you see, no exception to the
general rule.

"I have shown you that between the prisoner and the deceased there
was what may be termed a long standing feud, which came to a climax
two or three hours before this murder. Up to that fatal evening I
think I shall show you that the prisoner was wholly in fault, and
that the deceased acted with great good temper and self command
under a long series of provocations; but upon this evening his
temper appears to have failed, and I will admit frankly that he
seems to have committed a very outrageous and brutal assault upon
the prisoner. Still, gentlemen, such an assault is no justification
of the crime which took place. Unhappily it supplies the cause,
but it does not supply an excuse for the crime.

"Your duty in the case will be simple. You will have to say whether
or not the murder of William Mulready is accounted for upon the
theory which I have laid down to you and on no other. Should you
entertain no doubt upon the subject it will be your duty to bring
in a verdict of guilty; if you do not feel absolutely certain you
will of course give the prisoner the benefit of the doubt."

The evidence called added nothing to what was known at the first
examination. The two servants testified to the fact of the unpleasant
relations which had from the first existed between the deceased and
the prisoner, and detailed what they knew of the quarrel. Charlie's
evidence was the most damaging, as he had to state the threat which
Ned had uttered before he went out.

The counsel for the defense asked but few questions in cross
examination. He elicited from the servants, however, the fact that
Mr. Mulready at home was a very different person from Mr. Mulready
as known by people in general. They acknowledged that he was by no
means a pleasant master, that he was irritable and fault finding,
and that his temper was trying in the extreme, He only asked one
or two questions of Charlie.

"You did not find your stepfather a very pleasant man to deal with,
did you?"

"Not at all pleasant," Charlie replied heartily.

"Always snapping and snarling and finding fault, wasn't he?"

"Yes, sir, always."

"Now about this threat of which we have heard so much on the part
of your brother, did it impress you much? Were you frightened at
it? Did you think that your brother intended to kill your stepfather?"

"No, sir, I am sure he didn't; he just said it in a passion. He had
been knocked about until he could hardly stand, and he just said
the first thing that came into his head, like fellows do."

"You don't think that he went out with any deliberate idea of
killing your stepfather?"

"No, sir; I am sure he only went out to walk about till he got over
his passion, just as he had done before."

"It was his way, was it, when anything put him out very much, to
go and walk about till he got cool again?"

"Yes, sir."

For the defense Mr. Simmonds was called, and produced the threatening
letters which Mr. Mulready had laid before him. He stated that that
gentleman was much alarmed, and had asked that a military force
should be called into the town, and that he himself and his colleague
had considered the danger so serious that they had applied for and
obtained military protection.

Luke Marner and several of the hands at the mill testified to the
extreme unpopularity of their employer among his men, and said that
they should never have been surprised any morning at hearing that
he had been killed.

Dr. Green and Mr. Porson testified very strongly in favor of Ned's
character. This was all the evidence produced. Mr. Grant then
addressed the jury, urging that beyond the fact of this unfortunate
quarrel, in which the deceased appeared to have been entirely to
blame and to have behaved with extreme brutality, there was nothing
whatever to associate the prisoner with the crime. The young gentleman
before them, as they had heard from the testimony of gentlemen of
the highest respectability, bore an excellent character. That he
had faults in temper he admitted, such faults being the result of
the lad having been brought up among Indian servants; but Dr. Green
and Mr. Porson had both told them that he had made the greatest
efforts to master his temper, and that they believed that no ordinary
provocation could arouse him. But after all what did what they had
heard amount to? simply this, the lad's mother had been married
a second time to a man who bore the outward reputation of being
a pleasant, jovial man, a leading character among his townsmen, a
popular fellow in the circle in which he moved.

It had been proved, however, by the evidence of those who knew him
best, of his workpeople, his servants, of this poor lad whom the
prosecution had placed in the box as a witness against his brother,
that this man's life was a long lie; that, smiling and pleasant as
he appeared, he was a tyrant, a petty despot in his family, a hard
master to his hands, a cruel master in his house, What wonder that
between this lad and such a stepfather as this there was no love
lost. There were scores, ay and thousands of boys in England who
similarly hated their stepfathers, and was it to be said that, if
any of the men came to a sudden and violent death, these boys were
to be suspected of their murder. But in the present case, although
he was not in a position to lay his finger upon the man who
perpetrated this crime, they need not go far to look for him. Had
they not heard that he was hated by his workpeople? Evidence had
been laid before them to show that he was a marked man, that he had
received threatening letters from secret associations which had,
as was notorious, kept the south of Yorkshire, and indeed all that
part of the country which was the seat of manufacture, in a state
of alarm. So imminent was the danger considered that the magistrates
had requested the aid of an armed force, and at the tame this murder
was committed there were soldiers actually stationed in the mill,
besides a strong force in the town for the protection of this man
from his enemies.

The counsel for the prosecution had given them his theory as to
the actions of the prisoner, but he believed that that theory was
altogether wide of the truth. It was known that an accident had
taken place to the machinery, for the mill was standing idle for
the day. It would be probable that the deceased would go over late
in the evening to see how the work was progressing, as every effort
was being made to get the machinery to run on the following morning.

"What so probable, then, that the enemies of the deceased--and
you know that he had enemies, who had sworn to take his life--
should choose this opportunity for attacking him as he drove to or
from the town. That an enemy was prowling round the mill, as has
been suggested to you, I admit readily enough. That he stumbled
upon the rope, that the idea occurred to him of upsetting the gig
on its return, that he cut off a portion of the rope and fixed it
between the two gateposts across the road, and that this rope caused
the death of William Mulready. All this I allow; but I submit to
you that the man who did this was a member of the secret association
which is a terror to the land, and was the terror of William
Mulready, and there is no proof whatever, not even the shadow not
even the shadow of a proof, to connect this lad with the crime.

"I am not speaking without a warrant when I assert my conviction
that it was an emissary of the association known as the Luddites
who had a hand in this matter, for I am in possession of a document,
which unfortunately I am not in a position to place before you,
as it is not legal evidence, which professes to be written by the
man who perpetrated this deed, and who appears, although obedient
to the behests of this secret association of which he is a member,
to be yet a man not devoid of heart, who says that if this innocent
young man is found guilty of this crime he will himself come forward
and confess that he did it.

"Therefore, gentlemen of the jury, there is every reason to believe
that the slayer of William Mulready is indeed within these walls,
but assuredly he is not the most unfortunate and ill treated young
man who stands in the dock awaiting your verdict to set him free."

The summing up was brief. The judge commenced by telling the jury
that they must dismiss altogether from their minds the document of
which the counsel for the defense had spoken, and to which, as it
had not been put into court, and indeed could not be put into court,
it was highly irregular and improper for him to have alluded. They
must, he said, dismiss it altogether from their minds. Their duty
was simple, they were to consider the evidence before them. They
had heard of the quarrel which had taken place between the deceased
and the prisoner. They had heard the threat used by the prisoner
that he would kill the deceased if he had an opportunity, and they
had to decide whether he had, in accordance with the theory of
the prosecution, carried that threat into effect; or whether on
the other hand, as the defense suggested, the deceased had fallen
a victim to the agent of the association which had threatened his
life. He was bound to tell them that if they entertained any doubt
as to the guilt of the prisoner at the bar they were bound to give
him the benefit of the doubt.

The jury consulted together for a short time and then expressed
their desire to retire to consider their verdict. They were absent
about half an hour and on their return the foreman said in reply to
the question of the judge that they found the prisoner "Not Guilty."

A perfect silence reigned in the court when the jury entered the
box, and something like a sigh of relief followed their verdict.
It was expected, and indeed there was some surprise when the jury
retired, for the general opinion was that whether guilty or innocent
the prosecution had failed to bring home unmistakably the crime
to the prisoner. That he might have committed it was certain, that
he had committed it was probable, but it was assuredly not proved
that he and none other had been the perpetrator of the crime.

Of all the persons in the court the accused had appeared the least
anxious as to the result. He received almost with indifference the
assurances which Mr. Wakefield, who was sitting at the solicitor's
table below him, rose to give him, that the jury could not find a
verdict against him, and the expression of his face was unchanged
when the foreman announced the verdict.

He was at once released from the dock. His solicitor, Dr. Green,
and Mr. Porson warmly shook his hand, and Charlie threw his arms
round his neck and cried in his joy and excitement.

"It is all right, I suppose," Ned said as, surrounded by his friends,
he left the court, "but I would just as lief the verdict had gone
the other way."

"Oh! Ned, how can you say so?" Charlie exclaimed.

"Well, no, Charlie," Ned corrected himself. "I am glad for your
sake and Lucy's that I am acquitted; it would have been awful for
you if I had been hung--it is only for myself that I don't care.
The verdict only means that they have not been able to prove me
guilty, and I have got to go on living all my life knowing that I
am suspected of being a murderer. It is not a nice sort of thing,
you know," and he laughed drearily.

"Come, come, Ned," Mr. Porson said cheerily, "you mustn't take too
gloomy a view of it. It is natural enough that you should do so
now, for you have gone through a great deal, and you are overwrought
and worn out; but this will pass off, and you will find things are
not as bad as you think. It is true that there may be some, not
many, I hope, who will be of opinion that the verdict was like the
Scotch verdict 'Not Proven,' rather than 'Not Guilty;' but I am
sure the great majority will believe you innocent. You have got the
doctor here on your side, and he is a host in himself. Mr. Simmonds
told me when the jury were out of the court that he was convinced
you were innocent, and his opinion will go a long way in Marsden,
and you must hope and trust that the time will come when your innocence
will be not only believed in, but proved to the satisfaction of
all by the discovery of the actual murderer."

"Ah!" Ned said, "if we ever find that out it will be all right; but
unless we can do so I shall have this dreadful thing hanging over
me all my life."

They had scarcely reached the hotel where Mr. Porson, the doctor,
and Charlie were stopping, when Mr. Simmonds arrived.

"I have come to congratulate you, my boy," he said, shaking hands
with Ned. "I can see that at present the verdict does not give so
much satisfaction to you as to your friends, but that is natural
enough. You have been unjustly accused and have had a very hard
time of it, and you are naturally not disposed to look at matters
in a cheerful light; but this gives us time, my boy, and time is
everything. It is hard for you that your innocence has not been
fully demonstrated, but you have your life before you, and we must
hope that some day you will be triumphantly vindicated."

"That is what I shall live for in future," Ned said. "Of course
now, Mr. Simmonds, there is an end of all idea of my going into
the army. A man suspected of a murder, even if they have failed
to bring it home to him, cannot ask for a commission in the army.
I know there's an end to all that."

"No," Mr. Simmonds agreed hesitatingly, "I fear that for the present
that plan had better remain in abeyance; we can take it up again
later on when this matter is put straight."

"That may be never," Ned said decidedly, "so we need say no more
about it."

"And now, my boy," Mr. Porson said, "try and eat some lunch. I
have just ordered a post chaise to be round at the door in half an
hour. The sooner we start the better. The fresh air and the change
will do you good, and we shall have plenty of time to talk on the
road."


CHAPTER XVI: LUKE MARNER'S SACRIFICE


Not until they had left York behind them did Ned ask after his
mother. He knew that if there had been anything pleasant to tell
about her he would have heard it at once, and the silence of his
friends warned him that the subject was not an agreeable one.

"How is my mother?" he asked at last abruptly.

"Well, Ned," Dr. Green replied, "I have been expecting your question,
and I am sorry to say that I have nothing agreeable to tell you."

"That I was sure of," Ned said with a hard laugh. "As I have received
no message from her from the day I was arrested I guessed pretty
well that whatever doubt other people might feel, my mother was
positive that I had murdered her husband."

"The fact is, Ned," Dr. Green said cautiously, "your mother is
not at present quite accountable for her opinions. The shock which
she has undergone has, I think, unhinged her mind. Worthless as I
believe him to have been, this man had entirely gained her affections.
She has not risen from her bed since he died.

"Sometimes she is absolutely silent for hours, at others she
talks incessantly; and painful as it is to tell you so, her first
impression that you were responsible for his death is the one which
still remains fixed on her mind. She is wholly incapable of reason
or of argument. At times she appears sane and sensible enough and
talks of other matters coherently; but the moment she touches on
this topic she becomes excited and vehement. It has been a great
comfort to me, and I am sure it will be to you, that your old
servant Abijah has returned and taken up the position of housekeeper.

"As soon as your mother's first excitement passed away I asked her
if she would like this, and she eagerly assented. The woman was in
the town, having come over on the morning after you gave yourself
up, and to my great relief she at once consented to take up her
former position. This is a great thing for your sister, who is, of
course, entirely in her charge, as your mother is not in a condition
to attend to anything. I was afraid at first that she would not
remain, so indignant was she at your mother's believing your guilt;
but when I assured her that the poor lady was not responsible for
what she said, and that her mind was in fact unhinged altogether
by the calamity, she overcame her feelings; but it is comic to see
her struggling between her indignation at your mother's irresponsible
talk and her consciousness that it is necessary to abstain from
exciting her by contradiction."

Dr. Green had spoken as lightly as he could, but he knew how painful
it must be to Ned to hear of his mother's conviction of his guilt,
and how much it would add to the trials of his position.

Ned himself had listened in silence. He sighed heavily when the
doctor had finished.

"Abijah will be a great comfort," he said quietly, "a wonderful
comfort; but as to my poor mother, it will of course be a trial.
Still, no wonder that, when she heard me say those words when I
went out, she thinks that I did it. However, I suppose that it is
part of my punishment."

"Have you thought anything of your future plans, Ned?" Mr. Porson
asked after they had driven in silence for some distance.

"Yes, I have been thinking a good deal," Ned replied, "all the time
I was shut up and had nothing else to do. I did not believe that
they would find me guilty, and of course I had to settle what I
should do afterward. If it was only myself I think I should go away
and take another name; but in that case there would be no chance
of my ever clearing myself, and for father's sake and for the sake
of Charlie and Lucy I must not throw away a chance of that. It would
be awfully against them all their lives if people could say of them
that their brother was the fellow who murdered their stepfather.
Perhaps they will always say so now; still it is evidently my duty
to stay, if it were only on the chance of clearing up the mystery.

"In the next place I feel that I ought to stay for the sake of
money matters. I don't think, in the present state of things, with
the Luddites burning mills and threatening masters, any one would
give anything like its real value for the mill now. I know that
it did not pay with the old machinery, and it is not every one who
would care to run the risk of working with the new. By the terms
of the settlement that was made before my mother married again the
mill is now hers, and she and Charlie and Lucy have nothing else
to depend upon. As she is not capable of transacting business it
falls upon me to take her place, and I intend to try, for a time
at any rate, to run the mill myself. Of course I know nothing about
it, but as the hands all know their work the foreman will be able to
carry on the actual business of the mill till I master the details.

"As to the office business, the clerk will know all about it. There
was a man who used to travel about to buy wool, I know my mother's
husband had every confidence in him, and he could go on just as
before. As to the sales, the books will tell the names of the firms
who dealt with us, and I suppose the business with them will go on
as before. At any rate I can but try for a time. Of course I have
quite made up my mind that I shall have no personal interest whatever
in the business. They may think that I murdered Mulready, but they
shall not say that I have profited by his death. I should suppose
that my mother can pay me some very small salary, just sufficient
to buy my clothes. So I shall go on till Charlie gets to an age
when he can manage the business as its master; then if no clue has
been obtained as to the murder I shall be able to give it up and
go abroad, leaving him with, I hope, a good business for himself
and Lucy."

"I think that is as good a plan as any," Mr. Porson said; "but,
however, there is no occasion to come to any sudden determination
at present. I myself should advise a change of scene and thought
before you decide anything finally. I have a brother living in London
and he would, I am sure, very gladly take you in for a fortnight
and show you the sights of London."

"Thank you, sir, you are very kind," Ned said quietly; "but I have
got to face it out at Marsden, and I would rather begin at once."

Mr. Porson saw by the set, steady look upon Ned's face that he
had thoroughly made up his mind as to the part he had to play, and
that any further argument would be of no avail. It was not until
the postchaise was approaching Marsden that any further allusion was
made to Ned's mother. Then the doctor, after consulting Mr. Porson
by various upliftings of the eyebrows, returned to the subject.

"Ned, my boy, we were speaking some little time ago of your mother.
I think it is best that I should tell you frankly that I do not
consider her any longer responsible for her actions. I tell you
this in order that you may not be wounded by your reception.

"Since that fatal day she has not left her bed. She declares that
she has lost all power in her limbs. Of course that is nonsense,
but the result is the same. She keeps her bed, and, as far as I can
see, is likely to keep it. This is perhaps the less to be regretted,
as you will thereby avoid being thrown into contact with her; for
I tell you plainly such contact, in her present state of mind, could
only be unpleasant to you. Were you to meet, it would probably at
the least bring on a frightful attack of hysterics, which in her
present state might be a serious matter. Therefore, my boy, you
must make up your mind not to see her for awhile. I have talked the
matter over with your old nurse, who will remain with your mother
as housekeeper, with a girl under her. You will, of course, take
your place as master of the house, with your brother and sister
with you, until your mother is in a position to manage--if ever
she should be. But I trust at any rate that she will ere long so
far recover as to be able to receive you as the good son you have
ever been to her."

"Thank you," Ned said quietly. "I understand, doctor."

Ned did understand that his mother was convinced of his guilt
and refused to see him; it was what he expected, and yet it was a
heavy trial. Very cold and hard he looked as the postchaise drove
through the streets of Marsden. People glanced at it curiously,
and as they saw Ned sitting by the side of the men who were known
as his champions they hurried away to spread the news that young
Sankey had been acquitted.

The hard look died out of Ned's face as the door opened, and Lucy
sprang out and threw her arms round his neck and cried with delight
at seeing him; and Abijah, crying too, greeted him inside with a
motherly welcome. A feeling of relief came across his mind as he
entered the sitting room. Dr. Green, who was one of the trustees
in the marriage settlement, had, in the inability of Mrs. Mulready
to give any orders, taken upon himself to dispose of much of the
furniture, and to replace it with some of an entirely different
fashion and appearance. The parlor was snug and cosy; a bright fire
blazed on the hearth; a comfortable armchair stood beside it; the
room looked warm and homely. Ned's two friends had followed him
in, and tears stood in both their eyes.

"Welcome back, dear boy!" Mr. Porson said, grasping his hand. "God
grant that better times are in store for you, and that you may
outlive this trial which has at present darkened your life. Now we
will leave you to your brother and sister. I am sure you will be
glad to be alone with them."

And so Ned took to the life he had marked out for himself. In two
months he seemed to have aged years. The careless look of boyhood
had altogether disappeared from his face. Except from his two friends
he rejected all sympathy. When he walked through the streets of
Marsden it was with a cold, stony face, as if he were wholly unaware
of the existence of passersby. The thought that as he went along
men drew aside to let him pass and whispered after he had gone,
"That is the fellow who murdered his stepfather, but escaped because
they could not bring it home to him," was ever in his mind. His
friends in vain argued with him against his thus shutting himself
off from the world. They assured him that there were very many
who, like themselves, were perfectly convinced of his innocence,
and who would rally round him and support him if he would give them
the least encouragement, but Ned shook his head.

"I dare say what you say is true," he would reply; "but I could
not do it--I must go on alone. It is as much as I can bear now."

And his friends saw that it was useless to urge him further.

On the day after his return to Marsden Luke Marner and Bill Swinton
came back on the coach from York, and after it was dark Ned walked
up to Varley and knocked at Bill's door.

On hearing who it was Bill threw on his cap and came out to him.
For a minute the lads stood with their hands clasped firmly in each
other's without a word being spoken.

"Thank God, Maister Ned," Bill said at last, "we ha' got thee
again!"

"Thank God too!" Ned said; "though I think I would rather that it
had gone the other way."

They walked along for some time without speaking again, and then
Ned said suddenly:

"Now, Bill, who is the real murderer?"

Bill stopped his walk in astonishment.

"The real murderer!" he repeated; "how ever should oi know, Maister
Ned?"

"I know that you know, Bill. It was you who wrote that letter to
Mr. Wakefield saying that the man who did it would be at the trial,
and that if I were found guilty he would give himself up. It's no
use your denying it, for I knew your handwriting at once."

Bill was silent for some time, It had never occurred to him that
this letter would be brought home to him.

"Come, Bill, you must tell me," Ned said. "Do not be afraid.
I promise you that I will not use it against him. Mind, if I can
bring it home to him in any other way I shall do so; but I promise
you that no word shall ever pass my lips about the letter. I want
to know who is the man of whose crime the world believes me guilty.
The secret shall, as far as he is concerned, be just as much a
secret as it was before."

"But oi dunno who is the man, Maister Ned. If oi did oi would ha'
gone into the court and said so, even though oi had been sure they
would ha' killed me for peaching when oi came back. Oi dunno no
more than a child."

"Then you only wrote that letter to throw them on to a false scent,
Bill? Who put you up to that, for I am sure it would never have
occurred to you?"

"No," Bill said slowly, "oi should never ha' thought of it myself;
Luke told oi what to wroit, and I wroited it."

"Oh, it was Luke! was it?" Ned said sharply. "Then the man who did
it must have told him."

"Oi didn't mean to let out as it waar Luke," Bill said in confusion;
"and oi promised him solemn to say nowt about it."

"Well," Ned said, turning sharp round and starting on his way back
to the village, "I must see Luke himself."

Bill in great perplexity followed Ned, muttering: "Oh, Lor'! what
ull Luke say to oi? What a fellow oi be to talk, to be sure!"

Nothing further was said until they reached Luke's cottage. Ned
knocked and entered at once, followed sheepishly by Bill.

"Maister Ned, oi be main glad to see thee," Luke said as he rose
from his place by the fire; while Polly with a little cry, "Welcome!"
dropped her work.

"Thanks, Luke--thanks for coming over to York to give evidence.
How are you, Polly? There! don't cry--I ain't worth crying over.
At any rate, it is a satisfaction to be with three people who
don't regard me as a murderer. Now, Polly, I want you to go into
the other room, for I have a question which I must ask Luke, and
I don't want even you to hear the answer."

Polly gathered her work together and went out. Then Ned went over
to Luke, who was looking at him with surprise, and laid his hand
on his shoulder.

"Luke," he said, "I want you to tell me exactly how it was that
you came to tell Bill to write that letter to Mr. Wakefield?"

Luke started and then looked savagely over at Bill, who stood
twirling his cap in his hand.

"Oi couldn't help it, Luke," he said humbly. "Oi didn't mean vor
to say it, but he got it out of me somehow. He knowed my fist on
the paper, and, says he, sudden loike, 'Who war the man as murdered
Foxey?' What was oi vor to say? He says at once as he knowed the
idea of writing that letter would never ha' coom into my head; and
so the long and short of it be, as your name slipped owt somehow,
and there you be."

"Now, Luke," Ned said soothingly, "I want to know whether there was
a man who was ready to take my place in the dock had I been found
guilty, and if so, who he was. I shall keep the name as a secret.
I give you my word of honor. After he had promised to come forward
and save my life that is the least I can do, though, as I told
Bill, if I could bring it home to him in any other way I should feel
myself justified in doing so. It may be that he would be willing to
go across the seas, and when he is safe there to write home saying
that he did it."

"Yes, oi was afraid that soom sich thawt might be in your moind,
Maister Ned, but it can't be done that way. But oi doan't know,"
he said thoughtfully, "perhaps it moight, arter all. Perhaps the
chap as was a-coomin' forward moight take it into his head to go
to Ameriky. Oi shouldn't wonder if he did, In fact, now oi thinks
on't, oi am pretty sure as he will. Yes. Oi can say for sartin as
that's what he intends. A loife vor a loife you know, Maister Nod,
that be only fair, bean't it?"

"And you think he will really go?" Ned asked eagerly.

"Ay, he will go," Luke said firmly, "it's as good as done; but,"
he added slowly, "I dunno as he's got money vor to pay his passage
wi'. There's some kids as have to go wi' him. He would want no more
nor just the fare. But oi doan't see how he can go till he has laid
that by, and in these hard toimes it ull take him some time to do
that."

"I will provide the money," Ned said eagerly. "Abijah would lend
me some of her savings, and I can pay her back some day."

"Very well, Maister Ned. Oi expect as how he will take it as
a loan. Moind, he will pay it hack if he lives, honest. Oi doan't
think as how he bain't honest, that chap, though he did kill Foxey.
Very well," Luke went on slowly, "then the matter be as good as
settled. Oi will send Bill down tomorrow, and he will see if thou
canst let un have the money. A loife vor a loife, that's what oi
says, Maister Ned. That be roight, bain't it?"

"That's right enough, Luke," Ned replied, "though I don't quite
see what that has to do with it, except that the man who has taken
this life should give his life to make amends."

"Yes, that be it, in course," Luke replied. "Yes; just as you says,
he ought vor to give his loife to make amends."

That night Ned arranged with Abijah, who was delighted to hand
over her savings for the furtherance of any plan that would tend to
clear Ned from the suspicion which hung over him. Bill came down
next morning, and was told that a hundred pounds would be forthcoming
in two days.

Upon the following evening the servant came in and told Ned that
a young woman wished to speak to him. He went down into the study,
and, to his surprise, Mary Powlett was shown in. Her eyes were
swollen with crying.

"Master Ned," she said, "I have come to say goodby."

"Good-by, Polly! Why, where are you going?"

"We are all going away, sir, tomorrow across the seas, to Ameriky
I believe. It's all come so sudden it seems like a dream, Feyther
never spoke of such a thing afore, and now all at once we have got
to start. I have run all the way down from Varley to say goodby.
Feyther told me that I wasn't on no account to come down to you.
Not on no account, he said. But how could I go away and know that
you had thought us so strange and ungrateful as to go away without
saying goodby after your dear feyther giving his life for little
Jenny. I couldn't do it, sir. So when he started off to spend the
evening for the last time at the 'Cow' I put on my bonnet and ran
down here. I don't care if he beats me--not that he ever did beat
sir, but he might now--for he was terrible stern in telling me
as I wasn't to come and see you."

Ned heard her without an interruption. The truth flashed across
his mind. It was Luke Marner himself who was going to America, and
was going to write home to clear him. Yet surely Luke could never
have done it--Luke, so different from the majority of the croppers
--Luke, who had steadily refused to have anything to say to General
Lud and his schemes against the masters. Mary's last words gave
him a clue to the mystery--"Your dear feyther gave his life for
little Jenny." He coupled it with Luke's enigmatical words, "A
loife for a loife."

For a minute or two he sat absolutely silent. Mary was hurt at
the seeming indifference with which he received the news. She drew
herself up a little, and said, in an altered voice,

"I will say goodby, sir. I hope you won't think I was taking a
liberty in thinking you would be sorry if we were all to go without
your knowing it."

Ned roused himself at her words.

"It is not that, Polly. It is far from being that. But I want to
ask you a question. You remember the night of Mr. Mulready's murder?
Do you remember whether your father was at home all that evening?"

Polly opened her eyes in surprise at a question which seemed to
her so irrelevant to the matter in hand;

"Yes, sir," she replied, still coldly. "I remember that night. We
are not likely any of us to forget it. Feyther had not gone to the
'Cow.' He sat smoking at home. Bill had dropped in, and they sat
talking of the doings of the Luddites till it was later than usual.
Chute's, and the Attorney-General's [Sir Dudley Ryder]. My friend
Coke [Lovel], for the first time, spoke vastly well, and mentioned
how great Sir Robert's character is abroad.

Sir Francis Dashwood replied that he had found quite the reverse
from Mr.

Coke, and that foreigners always spoke with contempt of the Chevalier
de Walpole.

This was going too far, and he was called to order, but got off
well enough, by saying, that he knew it was contrary to rule to
name any member, but that he only mentioned it as spoken by an
impertinent Frenchman.

But of all speeches, none ever was so full of wit as Mr.

Pulteney's last. He said, "I have heard this committee represented
as a most dreadful spectre; it has been likened to all terrible
things; it has been likened to the King; to the inquisition; it
will be a committee of safety; it is a committee of danger; I don't
know what it is to be!

One gentleman, I think, called it _a cloud_! (this was the Attorney)
_a cloud_! I remember Hamlet takes Lord Polonius by the hand shows
him _a cloud_, and then asks him if he does not think it is like
a whale."

Well, in short, at eleven at night we divided, and threw out this
famous committee by 253 to 250, the greatest number that ever was
in the house, and the greatest number that ever _lost_ a
question.[1]

[Footnote 1: Lord Stanhope ("History of England," i. 24) gives a
long account of this debate, mainly derived from this letter.]

It was a most shocking sight to see the sick and dead brought in
on both sides! Men on crutches, and Sir William Gordon from his
bed, with a blister on his head, and flannel hanging out from under
his wig.

I could scarce pity him for his ingratitude. The day before the
Westminster petition, Sir Charles Wager gave his son a ship, and
the next day the father came down and voted against him. The son
has since been cast away; but they concealed it from the father,
that he might not absent himself.

However, as we have our good-natured men too on our side, one of his
own countrymen went and told him of it in the House. The old man,
who looked like Lazarus at his resuscitation, bore it with great
resolution, and said, he knew _why_ he was told of it, but when he
thought his country in danger, he would not go away.

As he is so near death, that it is indifferent to him whether he
died two thousand years ago or to-morrow, it is unlucky for him
not to have lived when such insensibility would have been a Roman
virtue.

There are no arts, no menaces, which the Opposition do not
practise.
They have threatened one gentleman to have a reversion cut off from
his son, unless he will vote with them. To Totness there came a
letter to the mayor from the Prince, and signed by two of his
lords, to recommend a candidate in opposition to the Solicitor-General
[Strange]. The mayor sent the letter to Sir Robert.

They have turned the Scotch to the best account. There is a young
Oswald, who had engaged to Sir R. but has voted against us.

Sir R. sent a friend to reproach him; the moment the gentleman who had
engaged for him came into the room, Oswald said, "You had like to
have led me into a fine error! did you not tell me that Sir R. would
have the majority?"
When the debate was over, Mr. Pulteney owned that he had never
heard so fine a debate on our side; and said to Sir Robert, "Well,
nobody can do what you can!" "Yes," replied Sir R., "Yonge did
better." Mr. Pulteney answered, "It was fine, but not of that
weight with what you said." They all allow it; and now their plan
is to persuade Sir Robert to retire with honour. All that evening there
was a report about the town, that he and my uncle [_old_ Horace]
were to be sent to the Tower, and people hired windows in the City
to see them pass by--but for this time I believe we shall not
exhibit so historical a parade....

Sir Thomas Robinson [Long] is at last named to the government of
Barbadoes; he has long prevented its being asked for, by declaring
that he had the promise of it.

Luckily for him, Lord Lincoln liked his house, and procured him
this government on condition of hiring it.

I have mentioned Lord Perceval's speeches; he has a set who has
a rostrum at his house, and harangue there. A gentleman who came
thither one evening was refused, but insisting that he was engaged
to come, "Oh, Sir," said the porter, "what are you one of those
who play at members of parliament?"...

_RANELAGH GARDENS OPENED--GARRICK, "A WINE-MERCHANT TURNED PLAYER"--DEFEAT
OF THE INDEMNITY BILL._
TO SIR HORACE MANN.

DOWNING STREET, _May_ 26, 1742.

To-day calls itself May the 26th, as you perceive by the date; but
I am writing to you by the fire-side, instead of going to Vauxhall.
If we have one warm day in seven, "we bless our stars, and think
it luxury." And yet we have as much water-works and fresco diversions,
as if we lay ten degrees nearer warmth.

Two nights ago Ranelagh-gardens were opened at Chelsea; the Prince,
Princess, Duke, much nobility, and much mob besides, were there.
There is a vast amphitheatre, finely gilt, painted, and illuminated,
into which everybody that loves eating, drinking, staring, or
crowding, is admitted for twelvepence. The building and disposition
of the garden cost sixteen thousand pounds. Twice a-week there are
to be Ridottos, at guinea-tickets, for which you are to have a
supper and music. I was there last night, but did not find the joy
of it. Vauxhall is a little better; for the garden is pleasanter,
and one goes by water. Our operas are almost over; there were but
three-and-forty people last night in the pit and boxes.

There is a little simple farce at Drury Lane, called "Miss Lucy in
Town," in which Mrs. Clive mimics the Muscovita admirably, and
Beard, Amorevoli tolerably. But all the run is now after Garrick, a
wine-merchant, who is turned player, at Goodman's fields. He plays
all parts, and is a very good mimic. His acting I have seen,
and may say to you, who will not tell it again here, I see nothing
wonderful in it; but it is heresy to say so: the Duke of Argyll
says, he is superior to Betterton. Now I talk of players, tell Mr.
Chute, that his friend Bracegirdle breakfasted with me this morning.
As she went out, and wanted her clogs, she turned to me, and said,
"I remember at the playhouse, they used to call Mrs.

Oldfield's chair! Mrs. Barry's clogs! and Mrs. Bracegirdle's
pattens!"
I did, indeed, design the letter of this post for Mr.

Chute; but I have received two such charming long ones from you of the
15th and 20th of May (N.S.), that I must answer them, and beg
him to excuse me till another post; so must the Prince [Craon],
Princess, the Grifona, and Countess Galli. For the Princess's
letter, I am not sure I shall answer it so soon, for hitherto I
have not been able to read above every third word; however, you may
thank her as much as if I understood it all.

I am very happy that _mes bagatelles_ (for I still insist they were
so) pleased.

You, my dear child, are very good to be pleased with the snuff-box.
I am much obliged to the superior _lumières_ of old Sarasin about
the Indian ink: if she meant the black, I am sorry to say I had it
into the bargain with the rest of the Japan: for coloured, it is
only a curiosity, because it has seldom been brought over.

I remember Sir Hans Sloane was the first who ever had any of it,
and would on no account give my mother the least morsel of it.
She afterwards got a good deal of it from China; and since that,
more has come over; but it is even less valuable than the other,
for we never could tell how to use it; however, let it make its
figure.

I am sure you hate me all this time, for chatting about so many
trifles, and telling you no politics. I own to you, I am so
wearied, so worn with them, that I scarce know how to turn my
hand to them; but you shall know all I know. I told you of the
meeting at the Fountain tavern: Pulteney had promised to be there,
but was not; nor Carteret. As the Lords had put off the debate on
the Indemnity Bill,[1] nothing material passed; but the meeting
was very Jacobite.

Yesterday the bill came on, and Lord Carteret took the lead
against it, and about seven in the evening it was flung out by
almost two to one, 92 to 47, and 17 proxies to 10.

To-day we had a motion by the new Lord Hillsborough (for the father
is just dead), and seconded by Lord Barrington, to examine the Lords'
votes, to see what was become of the bill; this is the form. The
Chancellor of the Exchequer, and all the new ministry, were with
us against it; but they carried it, 164 to 159.

It is to be reported to-morrow, and as we have notice, we may
possibly throw it out; else they will hurry on to a breach with
the Lords.

Pulteney was not in the House: he was riding the other day, and met
the King's coach; endeavouring to turn out of the way, his horse
started, flung him, and fell upon him: he is much bruised; but not
at all dangerously.

On this occasion, there was an epigram fixed to a list, which I
will explain to you afterwards: it is not known who wrote it, but
it was addressed to him:
Thy horse does things by halves, like thee:
Thou, with irresolution, Hurt'st friend and foe, thyself and me,
The King and Constitution.

[Footnote 1: A previous letter describes this as a Bill "to indemnify
all persons who should accuse themselves of any crime, provided
they accuse Lord Orford [Sir R.W.]." It was carried in the House
of Commons by 251 to 228, but, as this letter mentions, was thrown
out by the Lords by 109 to 57.

Lord Stanhope (c. 24) describes it as "a Bill which broke through
the settled forms and safeguards of law, to strike at one obnoxious
head

."]
* * * * *
I must tell you an ingenuity of Lord Raymond, an epitaph on the
Indemnifying Bill--I believe you would guess the author:--
Interr'd beneath this marble stone doth lie The Bill of Indemnity;
To show the good for which it was design'd, It died itself to save
mankind

.

* * * * *
There has lately been published one of the most impudent things
that ever was printed; it is called "The Irish Register," and is a
list of all the unmarried women of any fashion in England, ranked
in order, duchesses-dowager, ladies, widows, misses, &c., with their
names at length, for the benefit of Irish fortune-hunters, or as
it is said, for the incorporating and manufacturing of British
commodities.

Miss Edwards is the only one printed with a dash, because they have
placed her among the widows. I will send you this, "Miss Lucy
in Town," and the magazines, by the first opportunity, as I should
the other things, but your brother tells me you have had them by
another hand.

I received the cedrati, for which I have already thanked you: but I
have been so much thanked by several people to whom I gave some,
that I can very well afford to thank you again....

P.S.--I unseal my letter to tell you what a vast and, probably,
final victory we have gained to-day. They moved, that the Lords
flinging out the Bill of Indemnity was an obstruction of justice,
and might prove fatal to the liberties of this country.

We have sat till this moment, seven o'clock, and have rejected this
motion by 245 to 193. The call of the House, which they have kept
off from fortnight to fortnight, to keep people in town, was
appointed for to-day.

The moment the division was over, Sir John Cotton rose and said,
"As I think the inquiry is at an end, you may do what you will with
the call." We have put it off for two months. There's a noble
postscript!

_DEBATE ON DISBANDING THE HANOVERIAN TROOPS--FIRST SPEECH OF MURRAY
(AFTERWARDS EARL OF MANSFIELD)--BON MOT OF LORD CHESTERFIELD._

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, _Dec._ 9, 1742.

I shall have quite a partiality for the post of Holland; it brought
me two letters last week, and two more yesterday, of November 20th
and 27th; but I find you have your perpetual headaches--how can you
say that you shall tire me with talking of them?

you may make me suffer by your pains, but I will hear and insist
upon your always telling me of your health. Do you think I only
correspond with you to know the posture of the Spaniards or the
_épuisements_ of the Princess! I am anxious, too, to know how poor
Mr.

Whithed does, and Mr. Chute's gout. I shall look upon our sea-captains
with as much horror as the King of Naples can, if they bring gouts,
fits, and headaches.

You will have had a letter from me by this time, to give up sending
the Dominichin by a man-of-war, and to propose its coming in a
Dutch ship. I believe that will be safe.

We have had another great day in the House on the army in Flanders,
which the Opposition were for disbanding; but we carried it by a
hundred and twenty. Murray spoke for the first time, with the greatest
applause; Pitt answered him with all his force and art of language,
but on an ill-founded argument. In all appearances, they will be
great rivals.
Shippen was in great rage at Murray's apostacy; if anything can
really change his principles, possibly this competition may. To-morrow
we shall have a tougher battle on the sixteen thousand Hanoverians.
_Hanover_ is the word given out for this winter: there is a most
bold pamphlet come out, said to be Lord Marchmont's, which affirms
that in every treaty made since the accession of this family, England
has been sacrificed to the interests of Hanover, and consequently
insinuates the incompatibility of the two. Lord Chesterfield says
"that if we have a mind effectually to prevent the Pretender from
ever obtaining this crown, we should make him Elector of Hanover,
for the people of England will never fetch another king from thence."

Adieu! my dear child. I am sensible that I write you short letters,
but I write you all I know. I don't know how it is, but _the
wonderful_ seems worn out. In this our day, we have no rabbit-women--no
elopements--no epic poems, finer than Milton's--no contest about
Harlequins and Polly Peachems. Jansen[1] has won no more
estates, and the Duchess of Queensberry has grown as tame as her
neighbours.

Whist has spread an universal opium over the whole nation; it makes
courtiers and patriots sit down to the same pack of cards. The
only thing extraordinary, and which yet did not seem to surprise
anybody, was the Barbarina's being attacked by four men masqued,
the other night, as she came out of the Opera House, who would have
forced her away; but she screamed, and the guard came.

Nobody knows who set them on, and I believe nobody inquired.

[Footnote 1: H. Jansen, a celebrated gamester, who cheated the
Duke of Bedford of an immense sum: Pope hints at that affair in
this line,
Or when a duke to Jansen punts at White's.]
The Austrians in Flanders have separated from our troops a little
out of humour, because it was impracticable for them to march
without any preparatory provision for their reception.

They will probably march in two months, if no peace prevents it.
Adieu!

_KING THEODORE--HANDEL INTRODUCES ORATORIOS._
TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, _Feb._ 24, 1743.

I write to you in the greatest hurry in the world, but write I
will.
Besides, I must wish you joy: you are warriors; nay, conquerors[1];
two things quite novel in this war, for hitherto it has been armies
without fighting, and deaths without killing. We talk of this
battle as of a comet; "Have you heard of _the_ battle?" it is so
strange a thing, that numbers imagine you may go and see it at
Charing Cross. Indeed, our officers, who are going to Flanders,
don't quite like it; they are afraid it should grow the fashion
to fight, and that a pair of colours should no longer be a sinecure.
I am quite unhappy about poor Mr.

Chute:
besides, it is cruel to find that abstinence is not a drug. If
mortification ever ceases to be a medicine, or virtue to be a
passport to carnivals in the other world, who will be a self-tormentor
any longer--not, my child, that I am one; but, tell me, is he quite
recovered?

[Footnote 1: This alludes to an engagement, which took place on the
8th of February, near Bologna, between the Spaniards under M. de
Gages, and the Austrians under General Traun, in which the latter
were successful.]

I thank you for King Theodore's declaration,[1] and wish him success
with all my soul. I hate the Genoese; they make a commonwealth
the most devilish of all tyrannies!

[Footnote 1: With regard to Corsica, of which he had declared
himself king.

By this declaration, which was dated January 30, Theodore recalled,
under pain of confiscation of their estates, all the Corsicans in
foreign service, except that of the Queen of Hungary, and the Grand
Duke of Tuscany.

(See vol. ii. p. 74.)]
We have every now and then motions for disbanding Hessians and
Hanoverians,[1] alias mercenaries; but they come to nothing.

To-day the party have declared that they have done for this
session; so you will hear little more but of fine equipages for
Flanders: our troops are actually marched, and the officers begin
to follow them--I hope they know whither!

You know in the last war in Spain, Lord Peterborough[2] rode galloping
about to inquire for his army.

[Footnote 1: The employment of Hessian and Hanoverian troops in this
war was not only the subject of frequent complaints in Parliament,
but was also the cause of very general dissatisfaction in the country,
where it was commonly regarded as one of the numerous instances
in which the Ministers sacrificed the interests of England from an
unworthy desire to maintain their places by humouring the king's
preference for his native land.]
[Footnote 2: Lord Peterborough is celebrated by Pope as
taming the genius of the arid plain Almost as quickly as he conquered
Spain:
not that he did conquer Spain; but by an extraordinary combination
of hardihood and skill he took Barcelona, which had defied all
previous attacks; and, in the confidence inspired by this important
success, he offered Archduke Charles to escort him to Madrid, so
that he might be crowned King of Spain in that capital.

But the Archduke, under the advice of some of his own countrymen, who
were jealous of his influence, rejected the plan.]
But to come to more _real_ contests; Handel has set up an Oratorio
against the Operas, and succeeds. He has hired all the goddesses
from farces and the singers of _Roast Beef_[1] from between the
acts at both theatres, with a man with one note in his voice, and
a girl without ever an one; and so they sing, and make brave
hallelujahs; and the good company encore the recitative, if it
happens to have any cadence like what they call a tune.

I was much diverted the other night at the opera; two gentlewomen
sat before my sister, and not knowing her, discoursed at their
ease. Says one, "Lord! how fine Mr. W. is!" "Yes," replied the
other, with a tone of saying sentences, "some men love to be
particularly so, your _petit-maîtres_--but they are not always
the brightest of their sex."--Do thank me for this period! I am
sure you will enjoy it as much as we did.

[Footnote 1: It was customary at this time for the galleries to
call for a ballad called "The Roast Beef of Old England" between
the acts, or before or after the play.

--WALPOLE.]
I shall be very glad of my things, and approve entirely of your
precautions; Sir R. will be quite happy, for there is no telling
you how impatient he is for his Dominchin. Adieu!

_BATTLE OF DETTINGEN--DEATH OF LORD WILMINGTON._
TO SIR HORACE MANN.

HOUGHTON, _July_ 4, 1743.

I hear no particular news here, and I don't pretend to send you the
common news; for as I must have it first from London, you will have
it from thence sooner in the papers than in my letters.

There have been great rejoicings for the victory; which I am
convinced is very considerable by the pains the Jacobites take to
persuade it is not. My Lord Carteret's Hanoverian articles have
much offended; his express has been burlesqued a thousand ways.
By all the letters that arrive, the loss of the French turns out
more considerable than by the first accounts: they have dressed
up the battle into a victory for themselves--I hope they will always
have such!

By their not having declared war with us, one should think they
intended a peace. It is allowed that our fine horse did us no honour:
the victory was gained by the foot. Two of their princes of the blood,
the Prince de Dombes, and the Count d'Eu his brother, were
wounded, and several of their first nobility. Our prisoners turn
out but seventy-two officers, besides the private men; and by the
printed catalogue, I don't think many of great family. Marshal
Noailles' mortal wound is quite vanished, and Duc d'Aremberg's
shrunk to a very slight one. The King's glory remains in its first
bloom.

Lord Wilmington is dead.[1] I believe the civil battle for his post
will be tough.

Now we shall see what service Lord Carteret's Hanoverians will
do him. You don't think the crisis unlucky for him, do you? If you
wanted a Treasury, should you choose to have been in Arlington
Street, or driving by the battle of Dettingen? You may imagine
our Court wishes for Mr. Pelham. I don't know any one who wishes
for Lord Bath but himself--I believe that is a pretty substantial
wish.

[Footnote 1: Formerly Sir Spencer Compton, and successor of Sir
R.

Walpole at the Treasury. He was succeeded by Mr. Pelham, a
brother of the Duke of Newcastle.]
I have got the Life of King Theodore, but I don't know how to convey
it--I will inquire for some way.

We are quite alone. You never saw anything so unlike as being here
five months out of place, to the congresses of a fortnight in
place; but you know the "Justum et tenacem propositi virum"[1]
can amuse himself without the "Civium ardor!" As I have not so
much dignity of character to fill up my time, I could like a little
more company.

With all this leisure, you may imagine that I might as well be writing
an ode or so upon the victory; but as I cannot build upon the
Laureate's[2] place till I know whether Lord Carteret or Mr. Pelham
will carry the Treasury, I have bounded my compliments to a
slender collection of quotations against I should have any occasion
for them. Here are some fine lines from Lord Halifax's[3] poem
on the battle of the Boyne--
The King leads on, the King does all inflame, The King;--and carries
millions in the name.

[Footnote 1: A quotation from Horace, Odes iii. 3.]
[Footnote 2: The Poet Laureate was Colley Cibber.]
[Footnote 3: The celebrated Chancellor of the Exchequer, Charles
Montagu, was raised to the peerage as Earl of Halifax. In conjunction
with Prior, he wrote the "Country and City Mouse," in ridicule
of Dryden's "Hind and Panther."]
Then follows a simile about a deluge, which you may imagine; but
the next lines are very good:

So on the foe the firm battalions prest, And he, like the tenth
wave, drove on the rest.
Fierce, gallant, young, he shot through ev'ry place, Urging their
flight, and hurrying on the chase, He hung upon their rear, or
lighten'd in their face.

The next are a magnificent compliment, and, as far as verse goes, to
be sure very applicable.

Stop, stop! brave Prince, allay that generous flame; Enough is given
to England and to Fame.

Remember, Sir, you in the centre stand; Europe's divided interests
you command, All their designs uniting in your hand.
Down from your throne descends the golden chain Which does the
fabric of our world sustain, That once dissolved by any fatal
stroke, The scheme of all our happiness is broke.

Adieu! my dear Sir; pray for peace!

_FRENCH ACTORS AT CLIFDEN--A NEW ROMAN CATHOLIC MIRACLE--LADY MARY
WORTLEY._ 
TO SIR HORACE MANN.

HOUGHTON, _Sept._ 7, 1743.

My letters are now at their _ne plus ultra_ of nothingness; so you
may hope they will grow better again. I shall certainly go to
town soon, for my patience is worn out. Yesterday, the weather grew
cold; I put on _a new_ waistcoat for its being winter's birthday--the
season I am forced to love; for summer has no charms for me when I
pass it in the country.

We are expecting another battle, and a congress at the same
time.
Ministers seem to be flocking to Aix la Chapelle: and, what will
much surprise you, unless you have lived long enough not to be
surprised, is, that Lord Bolingbroke has hobbled the same way
too--you will suppose, as a minister for France; I tell you, no. My
uncle [_old_ Horace], who is here, was yesterday stumping along
the gallery with a very political march: my Lord asked him whither
he was going. Oh, said I, to Aix la Chapelle.
You ask me about the marrying Princesses. I know not a tittle.
Princess Louisa seems to be going, her clothes are bought; but
marrying our daughters makes no conversation."The water here coombed close oop to t' rocks, and presently we
war a-walking through it. 'Be'st a going vor to drown us all?' says
oi. 'We are jest there,' says he. 'Ten minutes later we couldn't
ha' got along.' T' water war a-getting deeper and deeper, and t'
loomps of water cooms along and well nigh took me off my feet. Oi
was aboot to turn back, vor it war better, thinks oi, to be took
by t' king's men than to be droonded, when he says, 'Here we be.'
He climbs oop t' rocks and oi follows him. Arter climbing a short
way he cooms to a hole i' rocks, joost big enough vor to squeeze
through, but once inside it opened out into a big cave. A chap had
struck a loight, and there war ten or twelve more on us thar. 'We
had better wait another five minutes,' says one, 'to see if any
more cooms along. Arter that the tide ull be too high.'

"We waits, but no one else cooms; me and moi mate war t' last.
Then we goes to t' back of the cave, whar t' rock sloped down lower
and lower till we had to crawl along one arter t'other pretty nigh
on our stomachs, like raats going into a hole. Oi wonders whar on
aarth we war agoing, till at last oi found sudden as oi could stand
oopright. Then two or three more torches war lighted, and we begins
to climb oop some steps cut i' the face of t' rock. A rope had been
fastened alongside to hold on by, which war a good job for me, vor
oi should never ha' dared go oop wi'out it, vor if oi had missed
my foot there warn't no saying how far oi would ha' fallen to t'
bottom. At last the man avore me says, 'Here we be!' and grateful
oi was, vor what wi' the crawling and the climbing, and the funk as
oi was in o' falling, the swaat was a-running down me loike water.
The torches war put out, and in another minute we pushes through
some bushes and then we war on t' top of the cliff a hundred yards
or so back from t' edge, and doon in a sort of hollow all covered
thickly over wi' bushes. We stood and listened vor a moment, but
no sound war to be heard. Then one on em says, 'We ha' done 'em
agin. Now the sooner as we gets off to our homes the better.' Looky
for me, Jack war one of the lot as had coom up through the cave.
'Coom along, Luke,' says he, 'oi be glad thou hast got out of it
all roight. We must put our best foot foremost to get in afore day
breaks.' So we sets off, and joost afore morning we gets back to
village. As to t'other two from Varley, they never coom back agin.
Oi heerd as how all as war caught war pressed for sea, and oi expect
they war oot in a ship when a storm coom on, when in coorse they
would be drownded. Oi started next day vor hoam, and from that day
to this oi ha' never been five mile away, and what's more, oi ha'
never grudged the price as they asked for brandy. It ud be cheap
if it cost voive toimes as much, seeing the trouble and danger as
there be in getting it ashore, to say nothing o' carrying it across
the sea."

"That was an adventure, Luke," Ned said, "and you were well out
of it. I had no idea you had ever been engaged in defrauding the
king's revenue. But now I must be off. I shall make straight across
for the mill without going into Varley."

One night Ned had as usual gone to the mill, and having carried
down the twelve barrels from the office and placed them in a pile
in the center of the principal room of the mill he retired to bed.
He had been asleep for some hours when he was awoke by the faint
tingle of a bell. The office was over the principal entrance to the
mill, and leaping from his bed he threw up the window and looked
out. The night was dark, but he could see a crowd of at least two
hundred men gathered in the yard.

As the window was heard to open a sudden roar broke from the men,
who had hitherto conducted their operations in silence.

"There he be, there's the young fox; burn the mill over his head.
Now to work, lads, burst in the door."

And at once a man armed with a mighty sledgehammer began to batter
at the door.

Ned tried to make himself heard, but his voice was lost in the
roar without. Throwing on some clothes he ran rapidly downstairs
and lighted several lamps in the machine room. Then he went to the
door, which was already tottering under the heavy blows, shot back
some of the bolts, and then took his place by the side of the pile
of barrels with a pistol in his hand.

In another moment the door yielded and fell with a crash, and the
crowd with exultant cheers poured in.

They paused surprised and irresolute at seeing Ned standing quiet
and seemingly indifferent by the pile of barrels in the center of
the room.

"Hold!" he said in a quiet, clear voice, which sounded distinctly
over the tumult. "Do not come any nearer, or it will be the worse
for you. Do you know what I have got here, lads? This is powder. If
you doubt it, one of you can come forward and look at this barrel
with the head out by my side. Now I have only got to fire my pistol
into it to blow the mill, and you with it, into the air, and I
mean to do it. Of course I shall go too; but some of you with black
masks over your faces, who, I suppose, live near here, may know
something about me, and may know that my life is not so pleasant
a one that I value it in the slightest. As far as I am concerned
you might burn the mill and me with it without my lifting a finger;
but this mill is the property of my mother, brother, and sister.
Their living depends upon it, and I am going to defend it. Let one
of you stir a single step forward and I fire this pistol into this
barrel beside me."

And Ned held the pistol over the open barrel.

A dead silence of astonishment and terror had fallen upon the crowd.
The light was sufficient for them to see Ned's pale but determined
face, and as his words came out cold and steady there was not one
who doubted that he was in earnest, and that he was prepared to
blow himself and them into the air if necessary.

A cry of terror burst from them as he lowered the pistol to the
barrel of powder. Then in wild dismay every man threw down his
arms and fled, jostling each other fiercely to make their escape
through the doorway from the fate which threatened them. In a few
seconds the place was cleared and the assailants in full flight
across the country. Ned laughed contemptuously. Then with some
difficulty he lifted the broken door into its place, put some props
behind it, fetched a couple of blankets from his bed, and lay down
near the powder, and there slept quietly till morning.

Luke and Bill Swinton were down at the factory an hour before the
usual time. The assailants had for the most part come over from
Huddersfield, but many of the men from Varley had been among them.
The terror which Ned's attitude had inspired had been so great that
the secret was less well kept than usual, and as soon as people were
astir the events of the night were known to most in the village.
The moment the news reached the ears of Luke and Bill they hurried
down to the mill without going in as usual for their mug of beer
and bit of bread and cheese at the "Brown Cow." To imperialism so
conceived facts lend no support. The loyal acceptance of British
Imperial citizenship by Sir Wilfred Laurier or General Botha
constitutes something more subtle, something, to adapt Lord Milner's
phrase, less insular but more cosmopolitan than imperial egoism.

It does not, for instance, involve an absolute indifference to the
question whether France or Holland shall be swallowed up by the
sea.

At the same time the non-white races within the Empire show no
signs of enthusiastic contentment at the prospect of existing,
like the English 'poor' during the eighteenth century, as the mere
material of other men's virtues.

They too have their own vague ideas of nationality; and if those
ideas do not ultimately break up our Empire, it will be because
they are enlarged and held in check, not by the sentiment of imperial
egoism, but by those wider religious and ethical conceptions which
pay little heed to imperial or national frontiers.

It may, however, be objected by our imperial 'Real-politiker' that
cosmopolitan feeling is at this moment both visionary and dangerous,
not because, as Mazzini thought, it is psychologically impossible,
but because of the plain facts of our military position.

Our Empire, they say, will have to fight for its existence against
a German or a Russian Empire or both together during the next
generation, and our only chance of success is to create that kind
of imperial sentiment which has fighting value.

If the white inhabitants of the Empire are encouraged to think of
themselves as a 'dominant race,' that is to say as both a
homogeneous nation and a natural aristocracy, they will soon be
hammered by actual fighting into a Bismarckian temper of imperial
'egoism.'

Among the non-white inhabitants of the Empire (since either side
in the next inter-imperial war will, after its first serious
defeat, abandon the convention of only employing European troops
against Europeans) we must discover and drill those races who like
the Gurkhas and the Soudanese, may be expected to fight for us and
to hate our enemies without asking for political rights. In any
case we, like Bismarck, must extirpate, as the most fatal solvent
of empire, that humanitarianism which concerns itself with the
interests of our future opponents as well as those of our
fellow-subjects.

This sort of argument might of course be met by a _reductio ad
absurdum_. If the policy of imperial egoism is a successful one
it will be adopted by all empires alike, and whether we desire
it or not, the victor in each inter-imperial war will take over
the territory of the loser. After centuries of warfare and the
steady retrogression, in the waste of blood and treasure and
loyalty, of modern civilisation, two empires, England and Germany,
or America and China, may remain. Both will possess an armament
which represents the whole 'surplus value,' beyond mere subsistence,
created by its inhabitants.

Both will contain white and yellow and brown and black men hating
each other across a wavering line on the map of the world. But
the struggle will go on, and, as the result of a naval Armageddon
in the Pacific, only one Empire will exist. 'Imperial egoism,'
having worked itself out to its logical conclusion, will have
no further meaning, and the inhabitants of the globe, diminished
to half their number, will be compelled to consider the problems
of race and of the organised exploitation of the globe from the
point of view of mere humanitarianism.

Is the suggestion completely wanting in practicability that
we might begin that consideration before the struggle goes any
further? Fifteen hundred years ago, in south-eastern Europe, men
who held the Homoousian opinion of the Trinity were gathered in
arms against the Homoiousians.

The generals and other 'Real-politiker' on both sides may have
feared, like Lord Milner, lest their followers should become 'too
cosmopolitan,' too ready to extend their sympathies across the
frontiers of theology.

'This' a Homoousian may have said 'is a practical matter. Unless
our side learn by training themselves in theological egoism to
hate the other side, we shall be beaten in the next battle.'

And yet we can now see that the practical interests of Europe were
very little concerned with the question whether 'we' or 'they'
won, but very seriously concerned with the question whether the
division itself into 'we' or 'they' could not be obliterated by the
discovery either of a less clumsy metaphysic or of a way of thinking
about humanity which made the continued existence of those who
disagreed with one in theology no longer intolerable.

May the Germans and ourselves be now marching towards the horrors
of a world-war merely because 'nation' and 'empire' like 'Homoousia'
and 'Homoiousia' are the best that we can do in making entities of
the mind to stand between us and an unintelligible universe, and
because having made such entities our sympathies are shut up within
them?

I have already urged, when considering the conditions of political
reasoning, that many of the logical difficulties arising from our
tendency to divide the infinite stream of our thoughts and
sensations into homogeneous classes and species are now unnecessary
and have been avoided in our time by the students of the natural
sciences.

Just as the modern artist substitutes without mental confusion his
ever-varying curves and surfaces for the straight and simple lines
of the savage, so the scientific imagination has learnt to deal
with the varying facts of nature without thinking of them as separate
groups, each composed of identical individuals and represented to
us by a single type.

Can we learn so to think of the varying individuals of the whole
human race?

Can we do, that is to say, what Mazzini declared to be impossible?

And if we can, shall we be able to love the fifteen hundred million
different human beings of whom we are thus enabled to think?

To the first question the publication of the _Origin of Species_
in 1859 offered an answer.

Since then we have in fact been able to represent the human race to
our imagination, neither as a chaos of arbitrarily varying
individuals, nor as a mosaic of homogeneous nations, but as a
biological group, every individual in which differs from every other
not arbitrarily but according to an intelligible process of organic
evolution.[113] And, since that which exists for the imagination can
exist also for the emotions, it might have been hoped that the
second question would also have been answered by evolution, and
that the warring egoisms of nations and empires might henceforth
have been dissolved by love for that infinitely varying multitude
whom we can watch as they work their way through so much pain and
confusion towards a more harmonious relation to the universe

.

[113] Sir Sydney Olivier, e.g. in his courageous and penetrating
book _White Capital and Coloured Labour_ considers (in chap. ii.)
the racial distinctions between black and white from the point of
view of evolution.

This consideration brings him at once to 'the infinite, inexhaustible
distinctness of personality between individuals, so much a fundamental
fact of life that one almost would say that the amalgamating
race-characteristics are merely incrustations concealing this
sparkling variety' (pp. 12, 13).

But it was the intellectual tragedy of the nineteenth century that the
discovery of organic evolution, instead of stimulating such a
general love of humanity, seemed at first to show that it was for
ever impossible.

Progress, it appeared, had been always due to a ruthless struggle for
life, which must still continue unless progress was to cease.
Pity and love would turn the edge of the struggle, and therefore
would lead inevitably to the degeneration of the species.

This grim conception of an internecine conflict, inevitable and
unending, in which all races must play their part, hung for a
generation after 1859 over the study of world-politics as the fear
of a cooling sun hung over physics, and the fear of a population
to be checked only by famine and war hung over the first century
of political economy.

Before Darwin wrote, it had been possible for philanthropists to
think of the non-white races as 'men and brothers' who, after a
short process of education, would become in all respects except
colour identical with themselves. Darwin made it clear that the
difficulty could not be so glossed over. Racial variations were
shown to be unaffected by education, to have existed for millions
of years, and to be tending perhaps towards divergence rather than
assimilation.

The practical problem also of race relationship has by a coincidence
presented itself since Darwin wrote in a sterner form.

During the first half of the nineteenth century the European
colonists who were in daily contact with non-European races,
although their impulses and their knowledge alike revolted from the
optimistic ethnology of Exeter Hall, yet could escape all thought
about their own position by assuming that the problem would settle
itself.

To the natives of Australia or Canada or the Hottentots of South
Africa trade automatically brought disease, and disease cleared
the land for a stronger population.

But the weakest races and individuals have now died out, the
surviving population are showing unexpected powers of resisting
the white man's epidemics, and we are adding every year to our
knowledge of, and therefore our responsibility for, the causation
of infection.

We are nearing the time when the extermination of races, if it is done
at all, must be done deliberately.

But if the extermination is to be both inevitable and deliberate
how can there exist a community either of affection or purpose
between the killers and the killed?

No one at this moment professes, as far as I know, to have an easy
and perfect answer to this question. The point of ethics lies
within the region claimed by religion. But Christianity, which at
present is the religion chiefly concerned, has conspicuously failed
even to produce a tolerable working compromise.

The official Christian theory is, apparently, that all human
souls are of equal value, and that it ought to be a matter of indifference
to us whether a given territory is inhabited a thousand years hence
by a million converted Central African pigmies or a million equally
converted Europeans or Hindus.

On the practical point, however, whether the stronger race should
base its plans of extension on the extermination of the weaker
race, or on an attempt, within the limits of racial possibility,
to improve it, Christians have, during the nineteenth century, been
infinitely more ruthless than Mohammedans, though their ruthlessness
has often been disguised by more or less conscious hypocrisy.

But the most immediately dangerous result of political 'Darwinism'
was not its effect in justifying the extermination of African
aborigines by European colonists, but the fact that the conception
of the 'struggle for life' could be used as a proof that that
conflict among the European nations for the control of the trade-routes
of the world which has been threatening for the last quarter of a
century is for each of the nations concerned both a scientific
necessity and a moral duty.

Lord Ampthill, for instance, the athletic ex-governor of Madras,
said the other day:
'From an individual struggle, a struggle of families, of communities,
and nations, the struggle for existence has now advanced to a
struggle of empires

.'[114]

[114] _Times_, Jan. 22, 1908.

The exhilaration with which Lord Ampthill proclaims that one-half
of the species must needs slaughter the other half in the cause of
human progress is particularly terrifying when one reflects that
he may have to conduct negotiations as a member of the next
Conservative Government with a German statesman like Prince Büllow,
who seems to combine the teaching of Bismarck with what he
understands to have been the teaching of Darwin when he defends
the Polish policy of his master by a declaration that the rules
of private morality do not apply to national conduct.

Any such identification of the biological advantage arising from the
'struggle for life' among individuals with that which is to be
expected from a 'struggle of empires' is, of course, thoroughly
unscientific. The 'struggle of empires' must either be fought out
between European troops alone, or between Europeans in combination
with their non-European allies and subjects.

If it takes the first form, and if we assume, as Lord Ampthill
probably does, that the North European racial type is 'higher'
than any other, then the slaughter of half a million selected
Englishmen and half a million selected Germans will clearly be an
act of biological retrogression.

Even if the non-European races are brought in and a corresponding
number of selected Turks and Arabs and Tartars, or of Gurkhas and
Pathans and Soudanese are slaughtered, the biological loss to the
world, as measured by the percentage of surviving 'higher' or 'lower'
individuals will only be slightly diminished.

Nor is that form of the argument much better founded which contends
that the evolutionary advantage to be expected from the 'struggle
of empires' is the 'survival' not of races but of political and
cultural types.

Our victory over the German Empire, for instance, would mean, it
is said, a victory for the idea of political liberty.

This argument, which, when urged by the rulers of India, sounds
somewhat temerarious, requires the assumption that types of culture
are in the modern world most successfully spread by military
occupation. But in the ancient world Greek culture spread most
rapidly after the fall of the Greek Empire; Japan in our own time
adopted Western culture more readily as an independent nation than
she would have done as a dependency of Russia or France; and India
is perhaps more likely to-day to learn from Japan than from England.

Lord Ampthill's phrase, however, represents not so much an argument,
as a habit of feeling shared by many who have forgotten or never
known the biological doctrine which it echoes.

The first followers of Darwin believed that the human species
had been raised above its prehuman ancestors because, and in so
far as, it had surrendered itself to a blind instinct of conflict.

It seemed, therefore, as if the old moral precept that men should
control their more violent impulses by reflection had been founded
upon a mistake.

Unreflecting instinct was, after all, the best guide, and nations
who acted instinctively towards their neighbours might justify
themselves like the Parisian ruffians of ten years ago, by claiming
to be 'strugforlifeurs.'

If this habit of mind is to be destroyed it must be opposed not
merely by a new argument but by a conception of man's relation
to the universe which creates emotional force as well as intellectual
conviction.

And the change that has already shown itself in our conception of the
struggle for life among individuals indicates that, by some divine
chance, a corresponding change may come in our conception of the
struggle between peoples.
His new friend, Cartwright, was, of course, one of the first to
congratulate him on the escape the mill had had of destruction.

"I was wondering what you would do if they came," he said, "and
was inclined to think you were a fool for not following my example
and having some of your hands to sleep at the mill. Your plan was
best, I am ready to allow; that is to say, it was best for any one
who was ready to carry out his threat if driven to it. I shouldn't
be, I tell you fairly. If the mill is attacked I shall fight and
shall take my chance of being shot, but I could not blow myself up
in cold blood."

"I don't suppose I could have done so either in the old times," Ned
said with a faint smile. "My blood used to be hot enough, a good
deal too hot, but I don't think anything could get it up to boiling
point now, so you see if this thing had to be done at all it must
have been in cold blood."

"By the way, Sankey, I wish you would come over one day next week
and dine with me; there will be no one else there except my daughter."

Ned hastily muttered an excuse.

"Oh, that is all nonsense," Mr. Cartwright said good humoredly;
"you are not afraid of me, and you needn't be afraid of my daughter.
She is only a child of fifteen, and of course takes you at my
estimate, and is disposed to regard you as a remarkable mixture
of the martyr and the hero, and to admire you accordingly. Pooh,
pooh, lad! you can't be living like a hermit all your life; and
at any rate if you make up your mind to have but a few friends you
must be all the closer and more intimate with them. I know you dine
with Porson and Green, and I am not going to let you keep me at
arm's length; you must come, or else I shall be seriously offended."

So Ned had no resource left him, and had to consent to dine at
Liversedge. Once there he often repeated the visit. With the kind
and hearty manufacturer he was perfectly at home, and although at
first he was uncomfortable with his daughter he gradually became
at his ease with her, especially after she had driven over with
her father to make friends with Lucy, and, again, a short time
afterward, to carry her away for a week's visit at Liversedge. For
this Ned was really grateful. Lucy's life had been a very dull one.
She had no friends of her own age in Marsden, for naturally at the
time of Mr. Mulready's death all intimacy with the few acquaintances
they had in the place had been broken off, for few cared that their
children should associate with a family among whom such a terrible
tragedy had taken place.

Charlie was better off, for he had his friends at school, and the
boys at Porson's believed in Ned's innocence as a point of honor.
In the first place, it would have been something like a reflection
upon the whole school to admit the possibility of its first boy
being a murderer; in the second, Ned had been generally popular
among them, he was their best cricketer, the life and soul of all
their games, never bullying himself and putting down all bullying
among others with a strong hand. Their championship showed itself
in the shape of friendship for Charlie; and at the midsummer following
Mr. Mulready's death he had received invitations from many of them
to stay with them during the holidays, and had indeed spent that
time on a series of short visits among them.

He himself would, had he had his choice, have remained at home
with Ned, for he knew how lonely his brother's life was, and that
his only pleasure consisted in the quiet evenings; but Ned would
not hear of it.

"You must go, Charlie, both for your sake and my own. The change
will do you good; and if you were to stop at home and refuse to
go out people would say that you were ashamed to be seen, and that
you were crushed down with the weight of my guilt. You have got
to keep up the honor of the family now, Charlie; I have proved a
failure."

It was September now, and six months had elapsed since the death of
Mr. Mulready. The getting in of the harvest had made no difference
in the price of food, the general distress was as great as ever,
and the people shook their heads and said that there would be bad
doings when the winter with its long nights was at hand.

The mill was flourishing under its new management. The goods turned
out by the new machinery were of excellent quality and finish,
and Ned had more orders on hand than he could execute. The profits
were large, the hands well paid and contented. Ned had begged Dr.
Green and the other trustees of his mother's property to allow him
to devote a considerable part of the profits to assist, during the
hard time of winter, the numerous hands in Varley and other villages
round Marsden who were out of employment; but the trustees said
they were unable to permit this. Mrs. Mulready absolutely refused to
hear anything about the mill or to discuss any questions connected
with money, therefore they had no resource but to allow the profits,
after deducting all expenses of living, to accumulate until, at
any rate, Lucy, the youngest of the children, came of age.

Ned, however, was not to be easily thwarted, and he quietly reverted
to the old method of giving out a large quantity of work to the
men to be performed by the hand looms in their own cottages, while
still keeping his new machinery fully employed. There was, indeed,
a clear loss upon every yard of cloth so made, as it had, of course,
to be sold at the lower prices which machinery had brought about;
still the profits from the mill itself were large enough to bear
the drain, and means of support would be given to a large number
of families throughout the winter. Ned told Dr. Green what he had
done.

"You see, doctor," he said, "this is altogether beyond your province.
You and Mr. Lovejoy appointed me, as the senior representative of
the family, to manage the mill. Of course I can manage it in my
own way, and as long as the profits are sufficient to keep us in
the position we have hitherto occupied I don't see that you have
any reason to grumble."

"You are as obstinate as a mule, Ned," the doctor said, smiling;
"but I am glad enough to let you have your way so long as it is not
clearly my duty to thwart you; and indeed I don't know how those
poor people at Varley and at some of the other villages would get
through the winter without some such help."

"I am very glad I hit upon the plan. I got Luke Marner to draw up
a list of all the men who had families depending upon them; but indeed
I find that I have been able to set pretty nearly all the looms in
the neighborhood at work, and of course that will give employment
to the spinners and croppers. I have made a close calculation, and
find that with the profit the mill is making I shall just be able
to clear our household expenses this winter, after selling at a
loss all the cloth that can be made in the looms round."

"At any rate, Ned," the doctor said, "your plan will be a relief to
me in one way. Hitherto I have never gone to bed at night without
an expectation of being awakened with the news that you have been
shot on your way out to the mill at night. The fellows you frightened
away last month must have a strong grudge against you in addition
to their enmity against you as an employer. You will be safe enough
in future, and can leave the mill to take care of itself at night
if you like. You will have the blessings of all the poor fellows
in the neighborhood, and may henceforth go where you will by night
or day without the slightest risk of danger."

"You are right, no doubt," Ned said, "though that did not enter my
mind. When I took the step my only fear was that by helping them
for a time I might be injuring them in the future. Hand weaving,
spinning, and cropping are doomed. Nothing can save them, and
the sooner the men learn this and take to other means of gaining
a livelihood the better. Still the prices that I can give are
of course very low, just enough to keep them from starvation, and
we must hope that ere long new mills will be erected in which the
present hand workers will gradually find employment."

Hardly less warm than the satisfaction that the announcement that
Sankey was about to give out work to all the hand looms excited in
the villages round Marsden, was that which Abijah felt at the news.

Hitherto she had kept to herself the disapprobation which she felt
at Ned's using the new machinery. She had seen in her own village
the sufferings that had been caused by the change, and her sympathies
were wholly with the Luddites, except of course when they attempted
anything against the life and property of her boy. Strong in the
prejudices of the class among whom she had been born and reared,
she looked upon the new machinery as an invention of the evil one
to ruin the working classes, and had been deeply grieved at Ned's
adoption of its use. Nothing but the trouble in which he was could
have compelled her to keep her opinion on the subject to herself.

"I am main glad, Maister Ned. I b'lieve now as we may find out about
that other affair. I never had no hope before, it warn't likely as
things would come about as you wanted, when you was a-flying in the
face of providence by driving poor folks to starvation with them
noisy engines of yours; it warn't likely, and I felt as it was
wrong to hope for it. I said my prayers every night, but it wasn't
reasonable to expect a answer as long as that mill was a-grinding
men to powder."

"I don't think it was as bad as all that, Abijah. In another ten
years there will be twice as many hands employed as ever there
were, and there is no saying how large the trade may not grow."

Abijah shook her head as if to imply her belief that an enlargement
of trade by means of these new machines would be clearly flying in
the face of providence, however, she was too pleased at the news that
hand work was to be resumed in the district to care about arguing
the question. Even the invalid upstairs took a feeble interest in
the matter when Abijah told her that Master Ned had arranged to
give work to scores of starving people through the winter.

As a rule Abijah never mentioned his name to her mistress, for it
was always the signal for a flood of tears, and caused an excitement
and agitation which did not calm down for hours; but lately she
had noticed that her mistress began to take a greater interest in
the details she gave her of what was passing outside. She spoke more
cheerfully when Lucy brought in her work and sat by her bedside,
and she had even exerted herself sufficiently to get up two or three
times and lie upon the sofa in her room. It was Charlie who, full
of the news, had rushed in to tell her about Ned's defense at the
mill. She had made no comment whatever, but her face had flushed
and her lips trembled, and she had been very silent and quiet all
that day. Altogether Abijah thought that she was mending, and Dr.
Green was of the same opinion.

Although the setting to work of the hand looms and spindles relieved
the dire pressure of want immediately about Marsden, in other parts
things were worse than ever that winter, and the military were
kept busy by the many threatening letters which were received by
the mill owners from King Lud.

One day Mr. Cartwright entered Ned's office at the mill.

"Have you heard the news, Sankey?"

"No, I have heard no news in particular."

"Horsfall has been shot."

"You don't say so!" Ned exclaimed.

"Yes, he has been threatened again and again. He was over at
Huddersfield yesterday afternoon; he started from the 'George' on
his way back at half past five. It seems that his friend Eastwood,
of Slaithwaite, knowing how often his life had been threatened,
offered to ride back with him, and though Horsfall laughed at the
offer and rode off alone, Eastwood had his horse saddled and rode
after him, but unfortunately did not overtake him.

"About six o'clock Horsfall pulled up his horse at the Warren House
Inn at Crossland Moor. There he gave a glass of liquor to two of
his old work people who happened to be outside, drank a glass of
rum and water as he sat in the saddle, and then rode off. A farmer
named Parr was riding about a hundred and fifty yards behind him.
As Horsfall came abreast of a plantation Parr noticed four men
stooping behind a wall, and then saw two puffs of smoke shoot out.
Horsfall's horse started round at the flash, and he fell forward
on his saddle.

"Parr galloped up, and jumping off caught him as he was falling.
Horsfall could just say who he was and ask to be taken to his
brother's house, which was near at hand. There were lots of people
in the road, for it was market day in Huddersfield, you know, and
the folks were on their way home, so he was soon put in a cart and
taken back to the Warren House. It was found that both balls had
struck him, one in the right side and one in the left thigh. I hear
he is still alive this morning, but cannot live out the day."

"That is a bad business, indeed," Ned said.

"It is, indeed. Horsfall was a fine, generous, high spirited fellow,
but he was specially obnoxious to the Luddites, whose doings he
was always denouncing in the most violent way. Whose turn will it
be next, I wonder? The success of this attempt is sure to encourage
them, and we may expect to hear of some more bad doings. Of course
there will be a reward offered for the apprehension of the murderers.
A laborer saw them as they were hurrying away from the plantation,
and says he should know them again if he saw them; but these fellows
hang together so that I doubt if we shall ever find them out."

After Mr. Cartwright had gone Ned told Luke what had happened.

"I hope, Luke, that none of the Varley people have had a hand in
this business?"

"Oi hoape not," Luke said slowly, "but ther bain't no saying; oi
hears little enough of what be going on. Oi was never much in the
way of hearing, but now as I am head of the room, and all the hands
here are known to be well contented, oi hears less nor ever. Still
matters get talked over at the 'Cow.' Oi hears it said as many of
the lads in the village has been wishing to leave King Lud since
the work was put out, but they have had messages as how any man
turning traitor would be put out of the way. It's been somewhat
like that from the first, and more nor half of them as has joined
has done so because they was afeared to stand out. They ain't
tried to put the screw on us old hands, but most of the young uns
has been forced into joining.

"Bill has had a hard toime of it to stand out. He has partly managed
because of his saying as how he has been sich good friends with you
that he could not join to take part against the maisters; part, as
oi hears, because his two brothers, who been in the thick of it
from the first, has stuck up agin Bill being forced into it. Oi
wish as we could get that blacksmith out of t' village; he be at
the bottom of it all, and there's nowt would please me more than
to hear as the constables had laid their hands on him. Oi hear as
how he is more violent than ever at that meeting house. Of course
he never mentions names or says anything direct, but he holds forth
agin traitors as falls away after putting their hands to the plow,
and as forsakes the cause of their starving brethren because their
own stomachs is full."

"I wish we could stop him," Ned said thoughtfully. "I might get a
constable sent up to be present at the meetings, but the constables
here are too well known, and if you were to get one from another
place the sight of a stranger there would be so unusual that it
would put him on his guard at once. Besides, as you say, it would
be very difficult to prove that his expressions applied to the
Luddites, although every one may understand what he means. One
must have clear evidence in such a case. However, I hope we shall
catch him tripping one of these days. These are the fellows who
ought to be punished, not the poor ignorant men who are led away
by them."

The feeling of gratitude and respect with which Ned was regarded
by the workpeople of his district, owing to his action regarding
the hand frames, did something toward lightening the load caused
by the suspicion which still rested upon him. Although he still
avoided all intercourse with those of his own station, he no longer
felt the pressure so acutely. The hard, set expression of his face
softened somewhat, and though he was still strangely quiet and
reserved in his manner toward those with whom his business necessarily
brought him in contact, he no longer felt absolutely cut off from
the rest of his kind.

Ned had continued his practice of occasionally walking up with Bill
Swinton to Varley on his way to the mill. There was now little fear
of an attempt upon his life by the hands in his neighborhood; but
since the failure on the mill he had incurred the special enmity
of the men who had come from a distance on that occasion, and he
knew that any night he might be waylaid and shot by them. It was
therefore safer to go round by Varley than by the direct road. One
evening when he had been chatting rather later than usual at Luke
Marner's, Luke said:

"Oi think there's something i' t' wind. Oi heerd at t' Cow this
evening that there are some straangers i' the village. They're at
t' Dog. Oi thinks there's soom sort ov a council there. Oi heers
as they be from Huddersfield, which be the headquarters o' General
Lud in this part. However, maister, oi doan't think as there's
any fear of another attack on thy mill; they war too badly scaared
t'other noight vor to try that again."

When Ned got up to go Bill Swinton as usual put on his cap to
accompany him, as he always walked across the moor with him until
they came to the path leading down to the back of the mill, this
being the road taken by the hands from Varley coming and going from
work. When they had started a minute or two George, who had been
sitting by the fire listening to the talk, got up and stretched
himself preparatory to going to bed, and said in his usual slow
way:

"Oi wonders what they be a-doing tonoight. Twice while ye ha' been
a-talking oi ha' seen a chap a-looking in at t' window."

"Thou hast!" Luke exclaimed, starting up. "Dang thee, thou young
fool! Why didn't say so afore? Oi will hoide thee when oi comes
back rarely! Polly, do thou run into Gardiner's, and Hoskings', and
Burt's; tell 'em to cotch up a stick and to roon for their loives
across t' moor toward t' mill. And do thou, Jarge, roon into Sykes'
and Wilmot's and tell 'em the same; and be quick if thou would save
thy skin. Tell 'em t' maister be loike to be attacked."

Catching up a heavy stick Luke hurried off, running into two cottages
near and bringing on two more of the mill hands with him. He was
nearly across the moor when they heard the sound of a shot. Luke,
who was running at the top of his speed, gave a hoarse cry as of
one who had received a mortal wound. Two shots followed in quick
succession. A minute later Luke was dashing down the hollow through
which the path ran down from the moor. Now he made out a group of
moving figures and heard the sounds of conflict. His breath was
coming in short gasps, his teeth were set; fast as he was running,
he groaned that his limbs would carry him no faster. It was scarce
two minutes from the time when the first shot was fired, but it
seemed ages to him before he dashed into the group of men, knocking
down two by the impetus of his rush. He was but just in time.
A figure lay prostrate on the turf; another standing over him had
just been beaten to his knee. But he sprang up again at Luke's
onward rush. His assailants for a moment drew back.

"Thou'rt joist in toime, Luke," Bill panted out. "Oi war well nigh
done."

"Be t' maister shot?"

"No, nowt but a clip wi' a stick."

As the words passed between them the assailants again rushed forward
with curses and execrations upon those who stood between them and
their victim.

"Moind, Luke, they ha' got knoives!" Bill exclaimed. "Oi ha' got
more nor one slash already."

Luke and Bill fought vigorously, but they were overmatched. Anger
and fear for Ned's safety nerved Luke's arm, the weight of the
last twenty years seemed to drop off him, and he felt himself again
the sturdy young cropper who could hold his own against any in the
village. But he had not yet got back his breath, and was panting
heavily. The assailants, six in number, were active and vigorous
young men; and Bill, who was streaming with blood from several
wounds, could only fight on the defensive. Luke then gave a short
cry of relief as the two men who had started with him, but whom
he had left behind from the speed which his intense eagerness had
given him, ran up but a short minute after he had himself arrived
and ranged themselves by him. The assailants hesitated now.

"Ye'd best be off," Luke said; "there ull be a score more here in
a minute."

With oaths of disappointment and rage the assailants fell back and
were about to make off when one of them exclaimed: "Ye must carry
Tom off wi' thee. It ull never do to let un lay here."

The men gathered round a dark figure lying a few yards away. Four
of them lifted it by the hands and feet, and then they hurried
away across the moor. As they did so Bill Swinton with a sigh fell
across Ned's body. In two or three minutes four more men, accompanied
by George and Polly, whose anxiety would not let her stay behind,
hurried up. Luke and his companions had raised Ned and Bill into
a sitting posture.

"Are they killed, feyther?" Polly cried as she ran up breathless
to them.

"Noa, lass; oi think as t' maister be only stunned, and Bill ha'
fainted from loss o' blood. But oi doan't know how bad he be hurted
yet. We had best carry 'em back to t' house; we can't see to do
nowt here."

"Best let them stay here, feyther, till we can stop the bleeding.
Moving would set the wounds off worse."

"Perhaps you are right, Polly. Jarge, do thou run back to t' house
as hard as thou canst go. Loight t' lanterns and bring 'em along,
wi' a can o' cold water."

Although the boy ran to the village and back at the top of his
speed the time seemed long indeed to those who were waiting. When
he returned they set to work at once to examine the injuries. Ned
appeared to have received but one blow. The blood was slowly welling
from a wound at the back of his head.

"That war maade by a leaded stick, oi guess," Luke said; "it's cut
through his hat, and must pretty nigh ha' cracked his skool. One
of you bathe un wi' the water while we looks arter Bill."

Polly gave an exclamation of horror as the light fell upon Bill
Swinton. He was covered with blood. A clean cut extended from the
top of the ear to the point of the chin, another from the left
shoulder to the breast, while a third gash behind had cut through
to the bone of the shoulder blade.

"Never moind t' water, lass," Luke said as Polly with trembling
hands was about to wash the blood from the cut on the face, "the
bluid won't do un no harm--thou must stop t' bleeding."

Polly tore three or four long strips from the bottom of her dress.
While she was doing so one of the men by Luke's directions took
the lantern and gathered some short dry moss from the side of the
slope, and laid it in a ridge on the gaping wound. Then Luke with
Polly's assistance tightly bandaged Bill's head, winding the strips
from the back of the head round to the chin, and again across the
temples and jaw. Luke took out his knife and cut off the coat and
shirt from the arms and shoulder, and in the same way bandaged up
the other two wounds.

After George had started to fetch the lantern, Luke had at Polly's
suggestion sent two men back to the village, and these had now
returned with doors they had taken off the hinges. When Bill's
wounds were bandaged he and Ned were placed on the doors, Ned giving
a faint groan as he was moved.

"That's roight," Luke said encouragingly; "he be a-cooming round."

Two coats were wrapped up and placed under their heads, and they
were then lifted and carried off, Polly hurrying on ahead to make
up the fire and get hot water.

"Say nowt to no one," Luke said as he started. "Till t' master
cooms round there ain't no saying what he'd loike done. Maybe he
won't have nowt said aboot it."

The water was already hot when the party reached the cottage; the
blood was carefully washed off Ned's head, and a great swelling
with an ugly gash running across was shown. Cold water was dashed
in his face, and with a gasp he opened his eyes.

"It be all roight, Maister Ned," Luke said soothingly; "it be all
over now, and you be among vriends. Ye've had an ugly one on the
back o' thy head, but I dowt thou wilt do rarely now."

Ned looked round vaguely, then a look of intelligence came into
his face.

"Where is Bill?" he asked.

"He be hurted sorely, but oi think it be only loss o' blood, and
he will coom round again; best lie still a few minutes, maister,
thou wilt feel better then; Polly, she be tending Bill."

In a few minutes Ned was able to sit up; a drink of cold brandy
and water further restored him. He went to the bed on which Bill
had been placed.

"He's not dead?" he asked with a gasp, as he saw the white face
enveloped in bandages.

"No, surelie," Luke replied cheerfully; "he be a long way from dead
yet, oi hoape, though he be badly cut about."

"Have you sent for the doctor?" Ned asked.

"No!"

"Then send for Dr. Green at once, and tell him from me to come up
here instantly."

Ned sat down in a chair for a few minutes, for he was still dazed
and stupid; but his brain was gradually clearing. Presently he looked
up at the men who were still standing silently near the door.

"I have no doubt," he said, "that I have to thank you all for saving
my life, but at present I do not know how it has all come about. I
will see you tomorrow. But unless it has already got known, please
say nothing about this. I don't want it talked about--at any rate
until we see how Bill gets on.

"Now, Luke," he continued, when the men had gone, "tell me all
about it. My brain is in a whirl, and I can hardly think."

Luke related the incidents of the fight and the flight of the
assailants, and said that they had carried off a dead man with
them. Ned sat for some time in silence.

"Yes," he said at last, "I shot one. I was walking along with Bill
when suddenly a gun was fired from a bush close by; then a number
of men jumped up and rushed upon us. I had my pistol, and had just
time to fire two shots. I saw one man go straight down, and then
they were upon us. They shouted to Bill to get out of the way, but
he went at them like a lion. I don't think any of the others had
guns; at any rate they only attacked us with sticks and knives. I
fought with my back to Bill as well as I could, and we were keeping
them off, till suddenly I don't remember any more."

"One on them hit ye from behind wi' a loaded stick," Luke said,
"and thou must ha' gone doon like a felled ox; then oi expects as
Bill stood across thee and kept them off as well as he could, but
they war too much for t' lad; beside that cut on the head he ha'
one on shoulder and one behind. Oi war only joost in toime, another
quarter of a minute and they'd ha' got their knives into thee."

"Poor old Bill," Ned said sadly, going up to the bedside and laying
his hand on the unconscious figure. "I fear you have given your
life to save one of little value to myself or any one else."

"Don't say that, Master Ned," Polly said softly; "you cannot say
what your life may be as yet, and if so be that Bill is to die, and
God grant it isn't so, he himself would not think his life thrown
away if it were given to save yours."

But few words were spoken in the cottage until Dr. Green arrived.
Ned's head was aching so that he was forced to lie down. Polly
from time to time moistened Bill's lips with a few drops of brandy.
George had been ordered off to bed, and Luke sat gazing at the
fire, wishing that there was something he could do.

At last the doctor arrived; the messenger had told him the nature of
the case, and he had come provided with lint, plaster, and bandages.

"Well, Ned," he asked as he came in, "have you been in the wars
again?"

"I am all right, doctor. I had a knock on the head which a day or
two will put right; but I fear Bill is very seriously hurt."

The doctor at once set to to examine the bandages.

"You have done them up very well," he said approvingly; "but the
blood is still oozing from them. I must dress them afresh; get me
plenty of hot water, Polly, I have brought a sponge with me. Can
you look on without fainting?"

"I don't think I shall faint, sir," Polly said quietly; "if I do,
feyther will take my place."

In a quarter of an hour the wounds were washed, drawn together,
and bandaged. There was but little fresh bleeding, for the lad's
stock of life blood had nearly all flowed away.

"A very near case," the doctor said critically; "as close a shave
as ever I saw. Had the wound on the face been a quarter of an inch
nearer the eyebrow it would have severed the temporal artery. As
it is it has merely laid open the jaw. Neither of the other wounds
are serious, though they might very well have been fatal."

"Then you think he will get round, doctor?" Ned asked in a low
tone.

"Get round! Of course he will," Dr. Green replied cheerily. "Now
that we have got him bound up we will soon bring him round. It is
only a question of loss of blood."

"Hullo! this will never do," he broke off as Ned suddenly reeled
and would have fallen to the ground had not Luke caught him.

"Pour this cordial down Swinton's throat, Polly, a little at
a time, and lift his head as you do it, and when you see him open
his eyes, put a pillow under his head; but don't do so till he
begins to come round. Now let me look at Ned's head.

"It must have been a tremendous blow, Luke," he said seriously. "I,
only hope it hasn't fractured the skull. However, all this swelling
and suffusion of blood is a good sign. Give me that hot water. I
shall put a lancet in here and get it to bleed freely. That will
be a relief to him."

While he was doing this an exclamation of pleasure from Polly
showed that Bill was showing signs of returning to life. His eyes
presently opened. Polly bent over him.

"Lie quiet, Bill, dear; you have been hurt, but the doctor says you
will soon be well again. Yes; Master Ned is all right too. Don't
worry yourself about him."

An hour later both were sleeping quietly.

"They will sleep till morning," Dr. Green said, "perhaps well on
into the day; it is no use my waiting any longer. I will be up the
first thing."

So he drove away, while Polly took her work and sat down to watch
the sleepers during the night, and Luke, taking his stick and hat,
set off to guard the mill till daylight.

Ned woke first just as daylight was breaking; he felt stupid and
heavy, with a splitting pain in his head. He tried to rise, but
found that he could not do so. He accordingly told George to go
down in an hour's time to Marsden, and to leave a message at the
house saying that he was detained and should not be back to breakfast,
and that probably he might not return that night. The doctor kept
his head enveloped in wet bandages all day, and he was on the
following morning able to go down to Marsden, although still terribly
pale and shaken. His appearance excited the liveliest wonder and
commiseration on the part of Charlie, Lucy, and Abijah; but he told
them that he had had an accident, and had got a nasty knock on the
back of his head. He kept his room for a day or two; but at the end
of that time he was able to go to the mill as usual. Bill Swinton
was longer away, but broths and jellies soon built up his strength
again, and in three weeks he was able to resume work, although it
was long before the ugly scar on his face was healed. The secret
was well kept, and although in time the truth of the affair became
known in Varley it never reached Marsden, and Ned escaped the talk
and comment which it would have excited had it been known, and,
what was worse, the official inquiry which would have followed.

The Huddersfield men naturally kept their own council. They had
hastily buried their dead comrade on the moor, and although several
of them were so severely knocked about that they were unable to
go to work for some time, no rumor of the affair got about outside
the circle of the conspirators. It need hardly be said that this
incident drew Ned and Bill even more closely together than before,
and that the former henceforth regarded Bill Swinton in the light
of a brother.

At the end of the Christmas holidays Mr. Porson brought home a
mistress to the schoolhouse. She was a bright, pleasant woman, and
having heard from her husband all the particulars of Ned's case
she did her best to make him feel that she fully shared in her
husband's welcome whenever he came to the house, and although Ned
was some little time in accustoming himself to the presence of one
whom he had at first regarded as an intruder in the little circle
of his friends, this feeling wore away under the influence of her
cordiality and kindness.

"Is it not shocking," she said to her husband one day, "to think
that for nearly a year that poor lad should never have seen his own
mother, though she is in the house with him, still worse to know
that she thinks him a murderer? Do you think it would be of any
good if I were to go and see her, and tell her how wicked and wrong
her conduct is?"

"No, my dear," Mr. Porson said, smiling, "I don't think that course
would be at all likely to have a good effect. Green tells me that
he is sure that this conviction which she has of Ned's guilt is a
deep and terrible grief to her. He thinks that, weak and silly as
she is, she has really a strong affection for Ned, as well as for
her other children, and it is because this is so that she feels
so terribly what she believes to be his guilt. She suffers in her
way just as much, or more, than he does in his. He has his business,
which occupies his mind and prevents him from brooding over his
position; besides, the knowledge that a few of us are perfectly
convinced of his innocence enables him to hold up. She has no
distraction, nothing to turn her thoughts from this fatal subject.

"Green says she has several times asked him whether a person could
be tried twice for the same offense, after he has been acquitted
the first time, and he believes that the fear is ever present
in her mind that some fresh evidence may be forthcoming which may
unmistakably bring the guilt home to him. I have talked it over
with Ned several times, and he now takes the same view of it as
I do. The idea of his guilt has become a sort of monomania with
her, and nothing save the most clear and convincing proof of his
innocence would have any effect upon her mind. If that is ever
forthcoming she may recover, and the two may be brought together
again. At the same time I think that you might very well call
upon her, introducing yourself by saying that as I was a friend of
Captain Sankey's and of her sons you were desirous of making her
acquaintance, especially as you heard that she was such an invalid.
She has no friends whatever. She was never a very popular woman, and
the line every one knows she has taken in reference to the murder
of her second husband has set those who would otherwise have been
inclined to be kind against her. Other people may be convinced of
Ned's guilt, but you see it seems to every one to be shocking that
a mother should take part against her son."

Accordingly Mrs. Porson called. On the first occasion when she did
so Mrs. Mulready sent down to say that she was sorry she could not
see her, but that the state of her health did not permit her to
receive visitors. Mrs. Porson, however, was not to be discouraged.
First she made friends with Lucy, and when she knew that the girl
was sure to have spoken pleasantly of her to her mother she opened
a correspondence with Mrs. Mulready. At the same time we may
remark in passing that his opinions and prejudices were not so
invincible as to blind him to real genius and eminent public
services; and the admirers of Lord Chatham may fairly draw an
argument in favour of his policy from Walpole's admission of its
value in raising the spirit of the people; an admission which, it
may be supposed, it must have gone against his grain to make in
favour of a follower of Pulteney.

But from his letters on other topics, on literature and art, no
such deduction has to be made. His judgement was generally sound
and discriminating. He could appreciate the vast learning and
stately grandiloquence of Gibbon, and the widely different style of
Robertson.
Nor is it greatly to his discredit that his disgust at what he
considers Hume's needless parade of scepticism and infidelity,
which did honour to his heart, blinded him in a great degree to the
historian's unsurpassed acuteness and insight, and (to borrow the
eulogy of Gibbon) "the careless inimitable felicities" of his
narrative.

He was among the first to recognize the peculiar genius of Crabbe, and
to detect the impostures of Macpherson and Chatterton, while doing
full justice to "the astonishing prematurity" of the latter's genius.
And in matters of art, so independent as well as correct was his
taste, that he not only, in one instance, ventured to differ from
Reynolds, but also proved to be right in his opinion that a work
extolled by Sir Joshua, was but a copy, and a poor one.

On his qualifications to be a painter of the way of life, habits,
and manners (_quorum pars magna fuit_) of the higher classes in
his day, it would be superfluous to dwell. Scott, who was by
no means a warm admirer of his character, does not hesitate to
pronounce him "certainly the best letter-writer in the English
language;" and the great poet who, next to Scott, holds the highest
place in the literary history of the last two centuries, adds his
testimony not only to the excellence of his letters, but also to
his general ability as that of a high order.

"It is the fashion to underrate Horace Walpole, firstly, because he
was a nobleman, and, secondly, because he was a gentleman; but, to
say nothing of the composition of his incomparable letters and of
'The Castle of Otranto,' he is the 'Ultimus Romanorum,' the author
of 'The Mysterious Mother,' a tragedy of the highest order, and not
a puling love-play.

He is the father of the first romance, and the last tragedy in our
language; and surely worthy of a higher place than any living
writer, be he who he may."[1]
[Footnote 1: Byron, Preface to "Marino Faliere." But in the last
sentence the poet certainly exaggerated his admiration for Walpole;
since it is sufficiently notorious from his own letters, and from
more than one passage in his works, as where he ranks Scott as
second to Shakespeare alone, that he deservedly admired him more
than all their contemporaries put together.]

And it seems not unnatural to entertain a hope that a selection
from a correspondence which extorted such an eulogy from men whose
own letters form no small part of the attraction of Lockhart's
and Moore's biographies, will be acceptable to many who, while
lacking courage, or perhaps leisure, to grapple with publications
in many volumes, may welcome the opportunity thus here afforded
them of forming an acquaintance, however partial, with works which,
in their entire body, are deservedly reckoned among the masterpieces
of our literature.[1]
[Footnote 1: It may be proper to point out that, in some few
instances, a letter is not given in its entirety; but, as in familiar
correspondence, it must constantly happen that, while the incidents
mentioned in one portion of a letter are full of interest, of
others--such as marriages, deaths, &c.

--the importance is of the most temporary and transitory character.
It may be hoped that the liberty taken of leaving out such portions
will be regarded as, if not commendable, at the least excusable.]

A SELECTION

FROM THE
LETTERS OF HORACE WALPOLE.

_MARRIAGE OF THE PRINCESS OF WALES--VERY LIVELY._[1]
[Footnote 1: This letter, written before he was nineteen, is worth
noticing as a proof how innate was his liveliness of style, since
in that respect few of the productions of his maturer age surpasses
it.

It also shows how strong already was his expectations that his
letters would hereafter be regarded as interesting and valuable.]

TO GEORGE MONTAGU, ESQ.[1]
[Footnote 1: George Montagu, Esq., of Roel, in the county of
Gloucester, son of Brigadier-General Edward Montagu, and long M.P.
for Northampton.

He was the grandnephew of the first Earl of Halifax of the Montagu
family, the statesman and poet, and was the contemporary at Eton
of Walpole and Gray.

When his cousin, the Earl of Halifax, was Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland,
he was his secretary; and when Lord North was Chancellor of the
Exchequer, he occupied the same position with him.
He died May 10, 1780, leaving the bulk of his fortune to Lord
North.
Walpole's letters to him, 272 in number, and dating between 1736
and 1770, were first published in 1818, "from the Originals in
the possession of the Editor." There was a coolness between
Walpole and Montagu several years before the latter's death, the
correspondence dropping very abruptly. The cause is explained
by Walpole in a letter to Cole, dated May 11, 1780. Mr. Montagu's
brother, Edward, was killed at Fontenoy. His sister, Arabella,
was married to a Mr. Wetenhall--a relation of the Wetenhall
mentioned in De Grammont. "Of Mr. Montagu, it is only remembered
that he was a gentleman-like body of the _vieille cour_, and that
he was usually attended by his brother John (the Little John of
Walpole's correspondence), who was a midshipman at the age of
sixty, and found his chief occupation in carrying about his brother's
snuff-box" (_Quarterly Rev._ for _April_, 1818, p. 131).]

KING'S COLLEGE, _May_ 2, 1736.

Dear Sir,--Unless I were to be married myself, I should despair
ever being able to describe a wedding so well as you have done: had
I known your talent before, I would have desired an epithalamium.

I believe the Princess[1] will have more beauties bestowed on her
by the occasional poets, than even a painter would afford her.
They will cook up a new Pandora, and in the bottom of the box
enclose Hope, that all they have said is true. A great many, out
of excess of good breeding, having heard it was rude to talk Latin
before women, propose complimenting her in English; which she will
be much the better for. I doubt most of them, instead of fearing
their compositions should not be understood, should fear they
should: they write they don't know what, to be read by they don't
know who. You have made me a very unreasonable request, which I will
answer with another as extraordinary: you desire I would burn your
letters: I desire you would keep mine. I know but of one way of
making what I send you useful, which is, by sending you a blank
sheet: sure you would not grudge threepence for a halfpenny sheet,
when you give as much for one not worth a farthing. You drew
this last paragraph on you by your exordium, as you call it, and
conclusion. I hope, for the future, our correspondence will run
a little more glibly, with dear George, and dear Harry [Conway];
not as formally as if we were playing a game at chess in Spain and
Portugal; and Don Horatio was to have the honour of specifying to
Don Georgio, by an epistle, whither he would move.

In one point I would have our correspondence like a game at chess;
it should last all our lives--but I hear you cry check; adieu!

Dear George, yours ever.

[Footnote 1: Augusta, younger daughter of Frederic II., Duke of Saxe-Gotha,
married (27th April, 1736) to Frederick, Prince of Wales, father
of George III.

In 1736, I wrote a copy of Latin verses, published in the
"Gratulatio Acad. Cantab.," on the marriage of Frederick, Prince
of Wales.--_Walpole_ (_Short Notes_).]

_FONDNESS FOR OLD STORIES--REMINISCENCES OF ETON, ETC._
TO GEORGE MONTAGU, ESQ.

KING'S COLLEGE, _May_ 6, 1736.

Dear George,--I agree with you entirely in the pleasure you take
in talking over old stories, but can't say but I meet every day
with new circumstances, which will be still more pleasure to me
to recollect.

I think at our age 'tis excess of joy, to think, while we are running
over past happinesses, that it is still in our power to enjoy as
great.
Narrations of the greatest actions of other people are tedious in
comparison of the serious trifles that every man can call to mind
of himself while he was learning those histories. Youthful passages
of life are the chippings of Pitt's diamond, set into little
heart-rings with mottoes; the stone itself more worth, the filings
more gentle and agreeable.

--Alexander, at the head of the world, never tasted the true pleasure
that boys of his own age have enjoyed at the head of a school.

Little intrigues, little schemes, and policies engage their thoughts;
and, at the same time that they are laying the foundation for their
middle age of life, the mimic republic they live in furnishes
materials of conversation for their latter age; and old men cannot
be said to be children a second time with greater truth from any
one cause, than their living over again their childhood in imagination.

To reflect on the season when first they felt the titillation
of love, the budding passions, and the first dear object of their
wishes!

how unexperienced they gave credit to all the tales of romantic loves!
Dear George, were not the playing fields at Eton food for all
manner of flights? No old maid's gown, though it had been tormented
into all the fashions from King James to King George, ever
underwent so many transformations as those poor plains have in my
idea. At first I was contented with tending a visionary flock,
and sighing some pastoral name to the echo of the cascade under
the bridge.

How happy should I have been to have had a kingdom only for the
pleasure of being driven from it, and living disguised in an humble
vale! As I got further into Virgil and Clelia, I found myself
transported from Arcadia to the garden of Italy; and saw Windsor
Castle in no other view than the _Capitoli immobile saxum_. I wish
a committee of the House of Commons may ever seem to be the senate;
or a bill appear half so agreeable as a billet-doux. You see
how deep you have carried me into old stories; I write of them
with pleasure, but shall talk of them with more to you.

I can't say I am sorry I was never quite a schoolboy: an expedition
against bargemen, or a match at cricket, may be very pretty things
to recollect; but, thank my stars, I can remember things that are
very near as pretty. The beginning of my Roman history was spent
in the asylum, or conversing in Egeria's hallowed grove; not in
thumping and pummelling king Amulius's herdsmen.

I was sometimes troubled with a rough creature or two from the
plough; one, that one should have thought, had worked with his
head, as well as his hands, they were both so callous. One of
the most agreeable circumstances I can recollect is the Triumvirate,
composed of yourself, Charles, and
Your sincere friend.

_WISH TO TRAVEL--SUPERIORITY OF FRENCH MANNERS TO ENGLISH IN THEIR
MANNER TO LADIES._
TO GEORGE MONTAGU, ESQ.

KING'S COLLEGE, _March_ 20, 1737.

Dear George,--The first paragraph in my letter must be in answer to
the last in yours; though I should be glad to make you the return
you ask, by waiting on you myself.

'Tis not in my power, from more circumstances than one, which are
needless to tell you, to accompany you and Lord Conway to Italy:
you add to the pleasure it would give me, by asking it so kindly.

You I am infinitely obliged to, as I was capable, my dear George,
of making you forget for a minute that you don't propose stirring
from the dear place you are now in. Poppies indeed are the chief
flowers in love nosegays, but they seldom bend towards the lady;
at least not till the other flowers have been gathered. Prince
Volscius's boots were made of love-leather, and honour leather;
instead of honour, some people's are made of friendship: but since
you have been so good to me as to draw on this, I can almost believe
you are equipped for travelling farther than Rheims.

'Tis no little inducement to make me wish myself in France, that
I hear gallantry is not left off there; that you may be polite,
and not be thought awkward for it. You know the pretty men of the
age in England use the women with no more deference than they
do their coach-horses, and have not half the regard for them
that they have for themselves. The little freedoms you tell me you
use take off from formality, by avoiding which ridiculous extreme
we are dwindled into the other barbarous one, rusticity. If you
had been at Paris, I should have inquired about the new Spanish
ambassadress, who, by the accounts we have thence, at her first
audience of the queen, sat down with her at a distance that
suited respect and conversation.

Adieu, dear George,
Yours most heartily.

_THEATRES AT PARIS--ST. DENIS--FONDNESS OF THE FRENCH FOR SHOW, AND
FOR GAMBLING--SINGULAR SIGNS--THE ARMY THE ONLY PROFESSION FOR MEN
OF GENTLE BIRTH--SPLENDOUR OF THE PUBLIC BUILDINGS._
TO RICHARD WEST, ESQ.

PARIS, _April_ 21, N.S. 1739.[1]
[Footnote 1: He is here dating according to the French custom. In
England the calendar was not rectified by the disuse of the "Old
Style" till 1752.]

Dear West,--You figure us in a set of pleasures, which, believe
me, we do not find; cards and eating are so universal, that they
absorb all variation of pleasures. The operas, indeed, are much
frequented three times a week; but to me they would be a greater
penance than eating maigre: their music resembles a gooseberry tart
as much as it does harmony.

We have not yet been at the Italian playhouse; scarce any one
goes there. Their best amusement, and which, in some parts, beats
ours, is the comedy; three or four of the actors excel any we have:
but then to this nobody goes, if it is not one of the fashionable
nights; and then they go, be the play good or bad--except on Molière's
nights, whose pieces they are quite weary of.

Gray and I have been at the Avare to-night: I cannot at all commend
their performance of it.

Last night I was in the Place de Louis le Grand (a regular octagon,
uniform, and the houses handsome, though not so large as Golden
Square), to see what they reckoned one of the finest burials that
ever was in France.

It was the Duke de Tresmes, governor of Paris and marshal of France.
It began on foot from his palace to his parish-church, and from
thence in coaches to the opposite end of Paris, to be interred in
the church of the Celestins, where is his family-vault.

About a week ago we happened to see the grave digging, as we went
to see the church, which is old and small, but fuller of fine ancient
monuments than any, except St. Denis, which we saw on the road,
and excels Westminster; for the windows are all painted in mosaic,
and the tombs as fresh and well preserved as if they were of yesterday.
In the Celestins' church is a votive column to Francis II., which
says, that it is one assurance of his being immortalized, to have
had the martyr Mary Stuart for his wife.

After this long digression, I return to the burial, which was a
most vile thing. A long procession of flambeaux and friars; no
plumes, trophies, banners, led horses, scutcheons, or open chariots;
nothing but
friars, White, black, and grey, with all their trumpery.

This godly ceremony began at nine at night, and did not finish till
three this morning; for, each church they passed, they stopped for
a hymn and holy water.

By the bye, some of these choice monks, who watched the body while
it lay in state, fell asleep one night, and let the tapers catch
fire of the rich velvet mantle lined with ermine and powdered
with gold flower-de-luces, which melted the lead coffin, and burnt
off the feet of the deceased before it wakened them.

The French love show; but there is a meanness reigns through it
all. At the house where I stood to see this procession, the room
was hung with crimson damask and gold, and the windows were mended
in ten or a dozen places with paper.

At dinner they give you three courses; but a third of the dishes
is patched up with salads, butter, puff-paste, or some such
miscarriage of a dish. None, but Germans, wear fine clothes; but
their coaches are tawdry enough for the wedding of Cupid and Psyche.
You would laugh extremely at their signs: some live at the Y grec,
some at Venus's toilette, and some at the sucking cat. You would not
easily guess their notions of honour: I'll tell you one: it is
very dishonourable for any gentleman not to be in the army, or
in the king's service as they call it, and it is no dishonour to
keep public gaming-houses: there are at least a hundred and fifty
people of the first quality in Paris who live by it.

You may go into their houses at all hours of the night, and find
hazard, pharaoh, &c. The men who keep the hazard-table at the Duke
de Gesvres' pay him twelve guineas each night for the privilege.

Even the princesses of the blood are dirty enough to have shares
in the banks kept at their houses. We have seen two or three of
them; but they are not young, nor remarkable but for wearing their
red of a deeper dye than other women, though all use it extravagantly.

The weather is still so bad, that we have not made any excursions
to see Versailles and the environs, not even walked in the Tuileries;
but we have seen almost everything else that is worth seeing in
Paris, though that is very considerable.

They beat us vastly in buildings, both in number and magnificence.
The tombs of Richelieu and Mazarin at the Sorbonne and the College
de Quatre Nations are wonderfully fine, especially the former. We
have seen very little of the people themselves, who are not inclined
to be propitious to strangers, especially if they do not play and
speak the language readily.

There are many English here: Lord Holdernesse, Conway and Clinton,
and Lord George Bentinck; Mr. Brand, Offley, Frederic, Frampton,
Bonfoy, &c. Sir John Cotton's son and a Mr. Vernon of Cambridge passed
through Paris last week. We shall stay here about a fortnight
longer, and then go to Rheims with Mr. Conway for two or three
months. When you have nothing else to do, we shall be glad to
hear from you; and any news.

If we did not remember there was such a place as England, we
should know nothing of it: the French never mention it, unless it
happens to be in one of their proverbs. Adieu!

Yours ever.

To-morrow we go to the Cid. They have no farces, but _petites pièces_
like our 'Devil to Pay.'

_MAGNIFICENCE OF VERSAILLES--THE CHARTREUX RELICS._
TO RICHARD WEST, ESQ.

FROM PARIS, 1739.

Dear West,--I should think myself to blame not to try to divert
you, when you tell me I can. From the air of your letter you
seem to want amusement, that is, you want spirits. I would recommend
to you certain little employments that I know of, and that belong
to you, but that I imagine bodily exercise is more suitable to
your complaint.

If you would promise me to read them in the Temple garden, I
would send you a little packet of plays and pamphlets that we have
made up, and intend to dispatch to "Dick's"[1] the first opportunity.--Stand
by, clear the way, make room for the pompous appearance of
Versailles le Grand!----But no:

it fell so short of my idea of it, mine, that I have resigned to
Gray the office of writing its panegyric. He likes it. They say
I am to like it better next Sunday; when the sun is to shine, the
king is to be fine, the water-works are to play, and the new
knights of the Holy Ghost are to be installed! Ever since Wednesday,
the day we were there, we have done nothing but dispute about it.
They say, we did not see it to advantage, that we ran through the
apartments, saw the garden _en passant_, and slubbered over Trianon.

I say, we saw nothing. However, we had time to see that the great
front is a lumber of littleness, composed of black brick, stuck
full of bad old busts, and fringed with gold rails.

The rooms are all small, except the great gallery, which is noble,
but totally wainscoted with looking-glass.

The garden is littered with statues and fountains, each of which has
its tutelary deity. In particular, the elementary god of fire
solaces himself in one. In another, Enceladus, in lieu of a
mountain, is overwhelmed with many waters. There are avenues of
water-pots, who disport themselves much in squirting up cascadelins.

In short, 'tis a garden for a great child.
Such was Louis Quatorze, who is here seen in his proper colours,
where he commanded in person, unassisted by his armies and generals,
and left to the pursuit of his own puerile ideas of glory.

[Footnote 1: A celebrated coffee-house, near the Temple Gate in
Fleet Street, where quarto poems and pamphlets were taken in.]

We saw last week a place of another kind, and which has more the
air of what it would be, than anything I have yet met with: it
was the convent of the Chartreux. All the conveniences, or rather
(if there was such a word) all the _adaptments_ are assembled here,
that melancholy, meditation, selfish devotion, and despair would
require. But yet 'tis pleasing. Soften the terms, and mellow the
uncouth horror that reigns here, but a little, and 'tis a charming
solitude. It stands on a large space of ground, is old and irregular.
The chapel is gloomy: behind it, through some dark passages, you
pass into a large obscure hall, which looks like a combination-chamber
for some hellish council. The large cloister surrounds their
burying-ground. The cloisters are very narrow and very long, and let
into the cells, which are built like little huts detached from
each other.

We were carried into one, where lived a middle-aged man not long
initiated into the order. He was extremely civil, and called himself
Dom Victor. We have promised to visit him often.

Their habit is all white: but besides this he was infinitely
clean in his person; and his apartment and garden, which he keeps
and cultivates without any assistance, was neat to a degree. He has four
little rooms, furnished in the prettiest manner, and hung with good
prints. One of them is a library, and another a gallery. He has several
canary-birds disposed in a pretty manner in breeding-cages. In
his garden was a bed of good tulips in bloom, flowers and fruit-trees,
and all neatly kept.
Cartwright says he is indebted to you for the warning
you brought him, and how every one is speaking in praise of your
conduct, and what a good effect it has had.

"I told her that of course the Luddites would be very much incensed
against you and that it was adding to the risks that you already
ran. She lay on the sofa quietly with her eyes shut all the time
I was speaking. I could see her color come and go, and some tears
fell down her cheeks; then she said in a tone which she tried to
make hard and careless, but which really trembled, 'The military
ought to put a guard over my son. Why does he go risking his life
for other people? What business is it of his whether Cartwright's
mill is burned or not?' I said that Mr. Cartwright had been very
kind to you, and that I knew that you were much attached to him.
I also said that the military were anxious that you should have an
escort to and from the mill, but that you objected. I said that I
was afraid that your life had not much value in your own eyes, for
that it was by no means a happy one. 'It has value in other people's
eyes,' she said irritably, 'in Lucy's and in his brother's. What
would they do if he was to throw it away? Who would look after the
mill and business then? He has no right to run such risks, Mrs.
Porson, no right at all. Of course he is unhappy. People who let
their tempers master them and do things are sure to be unhappy,
and make other people unhappy, too; but that is no reason that he
should cause more unhappiness by risking his own life needlessly,
so, Mrs. Porson, please talk to your husband and tell him to make
my son have an escort. I know he always listens to Mr. Porson.'"

"Naturally my mother is anxious, for the sake of Charlie and Lucy,
that I should live to carry on the mill until Charlie is old enough
to run it himself," Ned said bitterly.

"I do not think that it is only that, Ned," Mrs. Porson said kindly.
"That was only the excuse that your mother made. I could see that
she was deeply moved. I believe, Ned, that at heart she still
loves you dearly. She has this unhappy fixed idea in her mind that
you killed her husband, and believing this she cannot bear to see
you; but I am sure she is most unhappy, most deeply to be pitied.
I cannot imagine anything more dreadful than the state of mind of
a woman who believes that a son of hers has murdered her husband.
I think that if you quite realized what her feelings must be you
would feel a little less bitter than you do.

"I know, Ned, how much you have to try you, but I am sure that I
would not exchange your position for that of your mother. Her pain
must be far greater than yours. You know that you are innocent,
and hope that some day you may be able to prove it. She thinks she
knows that you are guilty, and is in constant dread that something
may occur that may prove your guilt to the world."

"Perhaps you are right, Mrs. Porson," Ned said wearily; "at any rate
I will put up with the nuisance of this escort. I suppose it will
not be for very long, for I expect that we shall not hear very much
more of the Luddites. The failures upon Cartwright's mill and mine
must have disheartened them, and the big rewards that are offered
to any one who will come forward and betray the rest must make
them horribly uncomfortable, for no one can be sure that some one
may not be tempted to turn traitor."

"What is the matter with Bill?" Ned asked Luke Marner that afternoon.
"I see he is away."

"Yes, sir, he be a-sitting with John Stukeley, who they say is main
bad. It seems as how he has taken a fancy to t' lad, though why he
should oi dunno, for Bill had nowt to do wi' his lot. Perhaps he
thinks now as Bill were right and he were wrong; perhaps it only
is as if Bill ha' got a name in the village of being a soft hearted
chap, allus ready to sit up at noight wi' any one as is ill. Anyhow
he sent last noight to ask him to go and sit wi' him, and Bill sent
me word this morning as how he couldn't leave the man."

"Do you know what is the matter with him?"

"I dunno for certain, Maister Ned, but I has my suspicions."

"So have I, Luke. I believe he got a gunshot wound in that affair
at the mill."

Luke nodded significantly.

"Dr. Green ought to see him," Ned said. "A gunshot wound is not a
thing to be trifled with."

"The doctor ha' been up twice a day on the last three e days," Luke
replied. "Oi suppose they got frighted and were obliged to call
him in."

"They had better have done so at first," Ned said; "they might
have been quite sure that he would say nothing about it to the
magistrates whatever was the matter with Stukeley. I thought that
fellow would get into mischief before he had done."

"It war a bad day for the village when he coomed," Luke said; "what
wi' his preachings and his talk, he ha' turned the place upside
down. I doan't say as Varley had ever a good name, or was a place
where a quiet chap would have chosen to live, For fighting and drink
there weren't a worse place in all Yorkshire, but there weren't
no downright mischief till he came. Oi wur afraid vor a bit when
he came a-hanging aboot Polly, as the gal might ha' took to him,
for he can talk smooth and has had edication, and Polly thinks a
wonderful lot of that. Oi were main glad when she sent him aboot
his business."

"Well, there is one thing, Luke; if anything happens to him it
will put an end to this Luddite business at Varley. Such a lesson
as that in their midst would do more to convince them of the danger
of their goings on than any amount of argument and advice."

"It will that," Luke said. "Oi hear as they are all moighty down
in the mouth over that affair at Cartwright's. If they could not
win there, when they were thirty to one, what chance can they have
o' stopping the mills? Oi consider as how that has been the best
noight's work as ha' been done in Yorkshire for years and years.
There ain't a-been anything else talked of in Varley since. I ha'
heard a score of guesses as to how you found owt what was a-going
on in toime to get to the mill--thank God there ain't one
as suspects as our Polly brought you the news. My own boys doan't
know, and ain't a-going to; not as they would say a word as would
harm Polly for worlds, but as they gets a bit bigger and takes to
drink, there's no saying what mightn't slip out when they are in
liquor. So you and oi and Bill be the only ones as ull ever know
the ins and outs o' that there business."


CHAPTER XX: CLEARED AT LAST.


The night was a wild one. The weather had changed suddenly, and
the rain beat fiercely in the faces of the hands as they made their
way back from the mill up to Varley. As the night came on the storm
increased. The wind as it swept across the moor swirled down into
the hollow in which Varley stood, as if it would scoop the houses
out of their foundations, and the drops of rain were driven against
roof and wall with the force of hailstones.

Bill Swinton was sitting up again with John Stukeley, and as he
bent over the sick man's bed and tenderly lifted his head while
he held a cup with some cooling drink to his lips, the contrast
between his broad, powerful figure, and his face, marked with the
characteristics alike of good temper, kindness, and a resolute will,
and the thin, emaciated invalid was very striking. Stukeley's face
was without a vestige of color; his eyes were hollow and surrounded
by dark circles; his cheeks were of an ashen gray pallor, which
deepened almost to a lead color round his lips.

The King, the Duke, and Princess Emily saw it from the Library,
with their courts: the Prince and Princess, with their children,
from Lady Middlesex's; no place being provided for them, nor any
invitation given to the library.

The Lords and Commons had galleries built for them and the chief
citizens along the rails of the Mall: the Lords had four tickets
a-piece, and each Commoner, at first, but two, till the Speaker
bounced and obtained a third. Very little mischief was done, and
but two persons killed: at Paris, there were forty killed and
near three hundred wounded, by a dispute between the French and
Italians in the management, who, quarrelling for precedence in
lighting the fires, both lighted at once and blew up the whole. Our
mob was extremely tranquil, and very unlike those I remember in my
father's time, when it was a measure in the Opposition to work up
everything to mischief, the Excise and the French players, the
Convention and the Gin Act. We are as much now in the opposite
extreme, and in general so pleased with the peace, that I could
not help being struck with a passage I read lately in Pasquier,
an old French author, who says, "that in the time of Francis I.
the French used to call their creditors 'Des Anglois,' from the
facility with which the English gave credit to them in all treaties,
though they had broken so many."

On Saturday we had a serenta at the Opera-house, called Peace in Europe,
but it was a wretched performance.
No, there ain't nowt we
wouldn't do for him," he continued, glad to turn the subject from
that of Stukeley's affection for Polly. "He be one of the best of
maisters. Oi would give my life's blood if so be as oi could clear
him of that business of Mulready's."

For a minute or two not a word was said. The wind roared round the
building, and in the intervals of the gusts the high clock in the
corner of the room ticked steadily and solemnly as if distinctly
intimating that its movements were not to be hurried by the commotion
without.

Stukeley had closed his eyes, and Bill began to hope that he was
going to doze off, when he asked suddenly; "Bill, do you know who
sent that letter that was read at the trial--I mean the one from
the chap as said he done it, and was ready to give himself up if
the boy was found guilty?"

Bill did not answer.

"You can tell me, if you know," Stukeley said impatiently. "You
don't suppose as I am going to tell now! Maybe I shan't see any
one to tell this side of the grave, for I doubt as I shall see the
morning. Who wrote it?"

"I wrote it," Bill said; "but it warn't me as was coming forward,
it war Luke's idee fust. He made up his moind as to own up as it
was he as did it and to be hung for it to save Maister Ned, acause
the captain lost his loife for little Jenny."

"But he didn't do it," Stukeley said sharply.

"No, he didn't do it," Bill replied.

There was a silence again for a long time; then Stukeley opened
his eyes suddenly.

"Bill, I should like to see Polly again. Dost think as she will
come and say goodby?"

"Oi am sure as she will," Bill said steadily. "Shall oi go and
fetch her?"

"It's a wild night to ask a gal to come out on such an errand,"
Stukeley said doubtfully.

"Polly won't mind that," Bill replied confidently. "She will just
wrap her shawl round her head and come over. Oi will run across
and fetch her. Oi will not be gone three minutes."

In little more than that time Bill returned with Mary Powlett.

"I am awfully sorry to hear you are so bad, John," the girl said
frankly.

"I am dying, Polly; I know that, or I wouldn't have sent for ye.
In every generation thousands of young men and women are attracted
to politics because their intellects are keener, and their sympathies
wider than those of their fellows.

They become followers of Liberalism or Imperialism, of Scientific
Socialism or the Rights of Men or Women.

To them, at first, Liberalism and the Empire, Rights and Principles,
are real and simple things. Or, like Shelley, they see in the
whole human race an infinite repetition of uniform individuals,
the 'millions on millions' who 'wait, firm, rapid, and elate.'[44]

[44] Shelley, _Poetical Works_ (H.B. Forman), vol. iv. p. 8.

About all these things they argue by the old _a priori_ methods
which we have inherited with our political language.

But after a time a sense of unreality grows upon them. Knowledge
of the complex and difficult world forces itself into their minds.
Like the old Chartists with whom I once spent an evening, they tell
you that their politics have been 'all talk'--all words--and there
are few among them, except those to whom politics has become a
profession or a career, who hold on until through weariness and
disappointment they learn new confidence from new knowledge.

Most men, after the first disappointment, fall back on habit or
party spirit for their political opinions and actions.

Having ceased to think of their unknown fellow citizens as uniform
repetitions of a simple type, they cease to think of them at all;
and content themselves with using party phrases about the mass of
mankind, and realising the individual existence of their casual
neighbours.

Wordsworth's _Prelude_ describes with pathetic clearness a mental
history, which must have been that of many thousands of men who
could not write great poetry, and whose moral and intellectual
forces have been blunted and wasted by political disillusionment.

He tells us that the 'man' whom he loved in 1792, when the French
Revolution was still at its dawn, was seen in 1798 to be merely
'the composition of the brain.' After agonies of despair and baffled
affection, he saw 'the individual man ... the man whom we behold
with our own eyes

.'[45] But in that change from a false simplification of the whole
to the mere contemplation of the individual, Wordsworth's power
of estimating political forces or helping in political progress was
gone for ever

.

[45] _The Prelude_, Bk. XIII., ll. 81-84.

If this constantly repeated disappointment is to cease, quantitative
method must spread in politics and must transform the vocabulary
and the associations of that mental world into which the young
politician enters. Fortunately such a change seems at least to be
beginning. Every year larger and more exact collections of detailed
political facts are being accumulated; and collections of detailed
facts, if they are to be used at all in political reasoning, must
be used quantitatively.

The intellectual work of preparing legislation, whether carried on
by permanent officials or Royal Commissions or Cabinet Ministers
takes every year a more quantitative and a less qualitative form.

Compare for instance the methods of the present Commission on the
Poor Law with those of the celebrated and extraordinarily able
Commission which drew up the new Poor Law in 1833-34.

Hurry up, man, and don't lose a moment--it is a matter of life
and death."

A quarter of an hour later Dr. Green, with Mr. Thompson by his
side, drove off through the tempest toward Varley.

The next morning, as Ned was at breakfast, the doctor was announced.

"What a pestilently early hour you breakfast at, Ned! I was not in
bed till three o'clock, and I scarcely seemed to have been asleep
an hour when I was obliged to get up to be in time to catch you
before you were off."

"That is hard on you indeed, doctor," Ned said, smiling; "but why
this haste? Have you got some patient for whom you want my help?
You need not have got up so early for that, you know. You could
have ordered anything you wanted for him in my name. You might
have been sure I should have honored the bill. But what made you
so late last night? You were surely never out in such a gale!"

"I was, Ned, and strange as it seems I never went in answer to a
call which gave me so much satisfaction. My dear lad, I hardly know
how to tell you. I have a piece of news for you; the greatest, the
best news that man could have to tell you."

Ned drew a long breath and the color left his cheeks.

"You don't mean, doctor, you can't mean"--and he paused.

"That you are cleared, my boy. Yes; that is my news. Thank God,
Ned, your innocence is proved."

Ned could not speak. For a minute he sat silent and motionless.
Then he bent forward and covered his face with his hands, and his
lips moved as he murmured a deep thanksgiving to God for this mercy,
while Lucy and Charlie, with cries of surprise and delight, leaped
from the table, and when Ned rose to his feet, threw their arms
round his neck with enthusiastic delight; while the doctor wrung
his hand, and then, taking out his pocket handkerchief, wiped his
eyes, violently declaring, as he did so, that he was an old fool.

"Tell me all about it, doctor. How has it happened? What has brought
it about?"

"Luke Marner came down to me at ten o'clock last night to tell
me that John Stukeley was dying, which I knew very well, for when
I saw him in the afternoon I saw he was sinking fast; but he told
me, too, that the man was anxious to sign a declaration before a
magistrate to the effect that it was he who killed your stepfather.
I had my gig got out and hurried away to Thompson's. The old fellow
was rather crusty at being called out on such a night, but to do
him justice, I must say he went readily enough when he found what
he was required for, though it must have given him a twinge of
conscience, for you know he has never been one of your partisans.
However, off we drove, and got there in time.

"Stukeley made a full confession. It all happened just as we
thought. It had been determined by the Luddites to kill Mulready,
and Stukeley determined to carry out the business himself, convinced,
as he says, that the man was a tyrant and an oppressor, and that
his death was not only richly deserved, but that such a blow was
necessary to encourage the Luddites. It has not only held its own
during these hard times, but gone on increasing.
Canvassers may take hold of it with the assurance that future numbers
will be improvements even on the past.

"Playing the King," in our present number, will be a good piece
for humorous declamation at school. Both the artist and the poet
have done their work well.
For the coming holidays, there will be no juvenile work equal in
attraction to the "NURSERY PRIMER," which will now soon be ready.After fastening it across the road he sat down and waited, intending
to shoot your stepfather if the accident didn't turn out fatal.
After the crash, finding that Mulready's neck was broken and that
he was dead, he made off home. He wished it specially to be placed
on his deposition that he made his confession not from any regret
at having killed Mulready, but simply to oblige Mary Powlett, whose
heart was bent upon your innocence being proved. He signed the
deposition in the presence of Thompson, myself, and Bill Swinton."

"And you think it is true, doctor, you really think it is true? It
is not like Luke's attempt to save me?"

"I am certain it is true, Ned. The man was dying, and there was
no mistake about his earnestness. The intellectual life of the
government official is indeed becoming part of a problem which
every year touches us all more closely. In literature and science
as well as in commerce and industry the independent producer is dying
out and the official is taking his place.Thompson will today send a
copy of the deposition to the home secretary, with a request that
it may be made public through the newspapers. It will appear in
all the Yorkshire papers next Saturday, and all the world will know
that you are innocent."

"What will my mother say?" Ned exclaimed, turning pale again.

"I don't know what she will say, my lad, but I know what she
ought to say. I am going round to Thompson's now for a copy of the
deposition, and will bring it for her to see. Thompson will read
it aloud at the meeting of the court today, so by this afternoon
every one will know that you are cleared."

Abijah's joy when she heard that Ned's innocence was proved was
no less than that of his brother and sister. She would have rushed
upstairs at once to tell the news to her mistress, but Ned persuaded
her not to do so until the doctor's return.

"Then he will have to be quick," Abijah said, "for if the mistress'
bell rings, and I have to go up before he comes, I shall never be
able to keep it to myself. She will see it in my face that something
has happened. If the bell rings, Miss Lucy, you must go up, and if
she asks for me, say that I am particular busy, and will be up in
a few minutes."

The bell, however, did not ring before the doctor's return. After
a short consultation between him and Ned, Abijah was called in.

"Mr. Sankey agrees with me, Abijah, that you had better break the
news. Your mistress is more accustomed to you than to any one else,
and you understand her ways. Here is the deposition. I shall wait
below here till you come down. There is no saying how she will take
it. Be sure you break the news gently."

Abijah went upstairs with a hesitating step, strongly in contrast
with her usual quick bustling walk. '[79]
[79] Address at Stockport, p. 11.

To Lord Courtney the multi-member constituency, which permits of a
wide choice, and the preferential vote, which permits of full use
of that choice, are equally essential parts of his plan; and that
plan will soon be seriously discussed, because parliament, owing
to the rise of the Labour Party and the late prevalence of
'three-cornered' contests, will soon have to deal with the question.

It will then be interesting to see whether the growing substitution
of the new quantitative and psychological for the old absolute
and logical way of thinking about elections will have advanced
sufficiently far to enable the House of Commons to distinguish
between the two points.

If so, they will adopt the transferable vote, and so get over the
difficulty of three-cornered elections, while retaining single-member
constituencies, and therewith the possibility of making the personality
of a candidate known to the whole of his constituents.

A further effect of the way in which we are beginning to think of
the electoral process is that, since 1888, parliament, in
reconstructing the system of English local government, has steadily
diminished the number of elections, with the avowed purpose of
increasing their efficiency.

The Local Government Acts of 1888 and 1894 swept away thousands
of elections for Improvement Boards, Burial Boards, Vestries, etc.

In 1902 the separately elected School Boards were abolished, and it
is certain that the Guardians of the Poor will soon follow them.
The Rural Parish Councils, which were created in 1894, and which
represented a reversion by the Liberal Party to the older type of
democratic thought, have been a failure, and will either be
abolished or will remain ineffective, because no real administrative
powers will be given to them.

But if we omit the rural districts, the inhabitant of a 'county
borough' will soon vote only for parliament and his borough council,
while the inhabitant of London or of an urban district or non-county
borough will only vote for parliament, his county, and his district
or borough council.

On the average, neither will be asked to vote more than once a
year.

In America one notices a similar tendency towards electoral concentration
as a means of increasing electoral responsibility. In Philadelphia
I found that this concentration had taken a form which seemed to
me to be due to a rather elementary quantitative mistake in
psychology.

Owing to the fact that the reformers had thought only of economising
political force, and had ignored the limitations of political
knowledge, so many elections were combined on one day that the
Philadelphia 'blanket-ballot' which I was shown, with its parallel
columns of party 'tickets,' contained some four hundred names.

The resulting effects on the _personnel_ of Philadelphian politics
were as obvious as they were lamentable. In other American cities,
however, concentration often takes the form of the abolition of
many of the elected boards and officials, and the substitution for
them of a single elected Mayor, who administers the city by nominated
commissions, and whose personality it is hoped can be made known
during an election to all the voters, and therefore must he seriously
considered by his nominators.

One noticed again the growing tendency to substitute a quantitative
and psychological for an absolute and logical view of the electoral
process in the House of Commons debate on the claim set up by
the House of Lords in 1907 to the right of forcing a general
election (or a referendum) at any moment which they thought
advantageous to themselves.

Mr. Herbert Samuel, for instance, argued that this claim, if allowed,
would give a still further advantage in politics to the electoral
forces of wealth acting, at dates carefully chosen by the House of
Lords, both directly and through the control of the Press.

Lord Robert Cecil alone, whose mind is historical in the worst sense
of that term, objected 'What a commentary was that on the "will
of the people,"'[80] and thought it somehow illegitimate that Mr.

Samuel should not defend democracy according to the philosophy
of Thomas Paine, so that he could answer in the style of Canning.

The present quarrel between the two Houses may indeed result in a
further step in the public control of the methods of producing
political opinion by the substitution of General Elections occurring
at regular intervals for our present system of sudden party
dissolutions at moments of national excitemen

t
In your mother's present state the shock
of seeing you might have the worst effect. Run up, Abijah, and get
the box down to her. I will go out and come back and knock at the
door in two or three minutes, and will go up and see her, and,
if necessary. I will give her a strong soothing draught. You had
better tell her that from what you hear you believe Mr. Sankey is
not going to the mill today. That will make her delay her preparations
for moving until tomorrow, and will give us time to see what is
best to be done."

"I have brought the box, mistress," Abijah said as she entered
Mrs. Mulready's room; "but I don't think as you will want to pack
today, for I hear as Mr. Ned ain't a-going to the mill. You see
all the town will be coming to see him to shake hands with him and
tell him how glad they is that he is cleared."

"And only I can't!" Mrs. Mulready wailed. "To think of it, only I,
his mother, can't see him! And I must stop in the house for another
day! Oh! it is too hard! But I deserve it, and everything else."

"There is Dr. Green's knock," Abijah said.

"I can't see him, Abijah. I can't see him."

"I think you had better see him, ma'am. You always do see him, you
know, and it will look so strange if you don't. There, I will pop
these things into the drawers again and hide the box."

Abijah bustled about actively, and before Mrs. Mulready had time to
take any decided step Dr. Green knocked at the door and came in.

"How are you today, Mrs. Mulready?" he asked cheerfully. "This is
a joyful day indeed for us all. The whole place is wild with the
news, and I expect we shall be having a deputation presently to
congratulate Ned."

"I am not feeling very well," Mrs. Mulready said faintly. "The
shock has been too much for me."

"Very natural, very natural, indeed," Dr. Green said cheerily. "We
could hardly hope it would be otherwise; but after this good news
I expect we shall soon make a woman of you again. Your son will
be the most popular man in the place. People will not know how to
make enough of him. Porson and I, who have been cheering him all
along, will have to snub him now or his head will be turned. Now
let me feel your pulse. Dear! dear! this will not do at all; it's
going like a mill engine. This will never do. If you do not calm
yourself we shall be having you in bed again for a long bout. I will
send you a bottle of soothing medicine. You must take it every two
hours, and keep yourself perfectly quiet. There, I will not talk
to you now about this good news, for I see that you are not fit to
stand it. You must lie down on the sofa at once, and not get off
again today. I will look in this evening and see how you are."

Frightened at the threat that if she were not quiet she might be
confined to her bed for weeks; Mrs. Mulready obeyed orders, took
her medicine when it arrived, and lay quiet on the sofa. For a long
time the sedative failed to have any effect. Every five minutes
throughout the day there were knocks at the door. Every one who
knew Ned, and many who did not, called to congratulate him. Some,
like Mr. Thompson, made a half apology for having so long doubted
him. A few, like Mr. Simmonds, were able heartily to assure him
that they had never in their hearts believed it.

Ned was too full of gratitude and happiness to cherish the slightest
animosity, and he received warmly and thankfully the congratulations
which were showered upon him.

"He looks another man," was the universal comment of his visitors;
and, indeed, it was so. The cloud which had so long overshadowed
him had passed away, and the look of cold reserve had vanished with
it, and he was prepared again to receive the world as a friend.

He was most moved when, early in the day, Mr. Porson and the whole
of the boys arrived. As soon as he had left Mrs. Mulready, Dr.
Green had hurried down to the schoolhouse with the news, and Mr.
Porson, as soon as he heard it, had announced it from his desk,
adding that after such news as that he could not expect them to
continue their lessons, and that the rest of the day must therefore
be regarded as a holiday. He yielded a ready assent when the boys
entreated that they might go in a body to congratulate Ned.

Ned was speechless for some time as his old friend wrung his hand,
and his former schoolfellows clustered round him with a very Babel
of congratulations and good wishes. Only the knowledge that his
mother was ill above prevented them from breaking into uproarious
cheering.

In the afternoon, hearing that his mother was still awake, Ned,
accompanied by Mr. Porson, went out for a stroll, telling Harriet
that she was to remain at the open door while he was away, so as
to prevent any one from knocking. It was something of a trial to
Ned to walk through the street which he had passed along so many
times in the last year oblivious of all within it. Every man and
woman he met insisted on shaking hands with him. Tradesmen left
their shops and ran out to greet him, and there was no mistaking the
general enthusiasm which was felt on the occasion, and the desire
of every one to atone as far as possible for the unmerited suffering
which had been inflicted on him.

When he returned at six o'clock he found Harriet still on the watch,
and she said in low tones that Abijah had just come downstairs with
the news that her mistress had fallen asleep.

"I should not think any one more will come, Harriet, but I will
get you to stop here for a little longer. Then we must fasten up
the knocker and take off the bell. The doctor says that it is all
important that my mother should get a long and undisturbed sleep."

Dr. Green came in again in the evening, and had a long chat with
Ned. It was nearly midnight before Mrs. Mulready awoke. On opening
her eyes she saw Ned sitting at a short distance from the sofa. She
gave a sudden start, and then a look of terror came into her face.

Ned rose to his feet and held out his arms with the one word
"Mother!"

Mrs. Mulready slid from the sofa and threw herself on her knees
with her hands clasped.

"Oh! my boy, my boy!" The same is true of the relation between the heads of each section
and the officials immediately below them.

In at least one office important papers are brought first to the
chief.

His decision is at once given and is sent down the hierarchy for
elaboration. In other offices the younger men are given invaluable
experience, and the elder men are prevented from getting into an
official rut by a system which requires that all papers should be
sent first to a junior, who sends them up to his senior accompanied
not only by the necessary papers but also by a minute of his own
suggesting official action.

One of these two types of organisation must in fact be better than
the other, but no one has systematically compared them.

In the Colonial Office, again, it is the duty of the Librarian to
see that the published books as well as the office records on
any question are available for every official who has to report
on it.

In the Board of Trade, which deals with subjects on which the
importance of published as compared with official information
is even greater, room has only just been found for a technical
library which was collected many years ago.[94] The Foreign Office
and the India Office have libraries, the Treasury and the Local
Government Board have none.

[94] For a long time the Library of the Board of Trade was kept at
the Foreign Office.

In the Exchequer and Audit Department a deliberate policy has been
adopted of training junior officials by transferring them at
regular intervals to different branches of the work. The results
are said to be excellent, but nothing of the kind is systematically
done or has even been seriously discussed in any other Department
which I know.

Nearly all departmental officials are concerned with the organisation
of non-departmental work more directly executive than their own, and
part of a wise system of official training would consist in
'seconding' young officials for experience in the kind of work
which they are to organise.

The clerks of the Board of Agriculture should be sent at least once in
their career to help in superintending the killing of infected
swine and interviewing actual farmers, while an official in the Railway
section of the Board of Trade should acquire some personal
knowledge of the inside of a railway office. This principle of
'seconding' might well be extended so as to cover (as is already
done in the army) definite periods of study during which an
official, on leave of absence with full pay, should acquire knowledge
useful to his department; after which he should show the result of
his work, not by the answering of examination questions, but by the
presentation of a book or report of permanent value.

The grim necessity of providing, after the events of the Boer
War, for effective thought in the government of the British army
produced the War Office Council. The Secretary of State, instead
of knowing only of those suggestions that reach him through the
'bottle-neck' of his senior official's mind, now sits once a week at
a table with half a dozen heads of sub-departments.

He hears real discussion; he learns to pick men for higher work;
and saves many hours of circumlocutory writing.
Lucy was soon afterward settled in a house of her own,
having married a young landowner with ample estates. Mrs. Mulready,
in spite of the urgent persuasions of her son and his young
wife, refused to take up her residence with them, but established
herself in a pretty little house close at hand, spending, however,
a considerable portion of each day with him at his home.

The trials through which she had gone had done even more for her
than for Ned. All her querulous listlessness had disappeared. She
was bright, cheerful, and even tempered. Ned used to tell her that
she grew younger looking every day. Her pride and happiness in her
son were unbounded, and these culminated when, ten years after his
accession to the management of the mill, Ned acceded to the request
of a large number of manufacturers in the district, to stand for
Parliament as the representative of the mill owning interest, and
was triumphantly returned at the head of the poll.

Of the other characters of this story little need be said. Dr. Green
and Mr. and Mrs. Porson remained Ned's closest friends to the end
of their lives.

Mary Powlett did not compel Bill Swinton to wait until the situation
of foreman of the mill became vacant, but married him two years
after the death of John Stukeley. Bill became in time not only
foreman but the confidential manager of the mill, and he and his
wife were all their lives on the footing of dear friends with Mr.
and Mrs. Sankey.

Luke Marner remained foreman of his room until too old for further
work, when he retired on a comfortable pension, and was succeeded
in his post by his son George.  Ned and Amy Sankey had a large
family, who used to listen with awe and admiration to the tale of
the terrible trial which had once befallen their father, and of
the way in which he had indeed been "tried in the fire."

THE END