THE ROYAL PAWN OF VENICE

[Illustration: CATERINA CORNARO, QUEEN OF CYPRUS
FROM THE PAINTING BY TITIAN]

THE ROYAL PAWN OF VENICE

A Romance of Cyprus

by

MRS. LAWRENCE TURNBULL

Author of
"The Golden Book of Venice"


Philadelphia & London
J. B. Lippincott Company
1911

Copyright, 1911
by Francese Litchfield Turnbull

Published April, 1911

Printed by J. B. Lippincott Company
Washington Square Press, Philadelphia, U. S. A.


     DEDICATED

     BY GRACIOUS PERMISSION OF

     HER MAJESTY

     TO

     MARGHERITA OF SAVOY

     THE BELOVED FIRST QUEEN OF UNITED ITALY


Time:

The latter half of the XV. Century.


_THE ROYAL PAWN
OF VENICE_


I


Among the day-dreams of the Rulers of Venice the island of Cyprus had
long loomed large and fair--Cyprus, the happy isle of romance, _l'isola
fortunata_, sea-girdled, clothed with dense forests of precious woods,
veined with inexhaustible mines of rich metals; a very garden of
luscious fruits, garlanded with ever-blooming flowers--a land flowing
with milk and honey and steeped in the fragrance of wines that a god
might covet.

_Kypros_--_Paphos_--a theme for poets, where Aphrodite rose from the
foam of the sea, and the fabled groves of the mysteries of Venus gave
place to primitive shrines of Christian worship, while innumerable
Grecian legends were merged in early Christian traditions, imparting
some of their own tint of fable, yet baptizing anew the groves and
hillsides to sanctity. Beautiful hillsides, rippling down to the
sea-coasts; and plains, nestling among the mountain slopes, littered
with remnants of vast temples of superb pagan workmanship and with
priceless pre-historic remains: wonderful, ancient marbles,
time-mellowed and crumbling, inwrought rather with barbaric symbols of
splendor than with the tender grace of poetic suggestion.

And this land of many races and dynasties, of conflicting ideals and
religions, as of many tongues--where domination was largely a matter of
the stronger hand--still held among the nations her ancient soubriquet
of _the happy isle_.

But less for her romance and beauty than because this _notissima famæ
insulæ_ was a possession to be envied by a diplomatic nation, since its
position lent it importance, the Republic had looked upon it with
longing eyes--and because of its commerce, which equalled that of
Venice, long ago the far-seeing Senate had sought to purchase it from
the Greek Emperor, but the agreement had come to naught by treachery of
the Emperor's son.

Nevertheless, Cyprus had not been forgotten; and the time for Venice to
make good this remembrance had now come uppermost on the calendar of the
years.

So they were ready to give rapt attention to the flattering proposals of
the young Cyprian Monarch, as presented by his dignified ambassador, the
Signor Filippo Mastachelli, when he appeared before the Signoria with
the retinue and splendor of an Eastern Prince, bearing gifts of jewels
meet for a royal bride, to claim the hand of a patrician maid of Venice,
to make her Queen of Cyprus.

Janus the Second was young and brave, the idol of a party of his
people--and where was the kingdom in which there were known to be no
discontents? He was upheld by the great Sultan of Egypt to whom he owed
suzerainty and, if in disfavor of the Holy Father for this allegiance,
Venice had always permitted Rome to question her own supremacy and was
not disconcerted thereby. He was beautiful as a young god, with a face
full of laughing appeal, and not less charming than the miniature set in
crystals which Mastachelli bore among the wedding gifts; and the grace
of him could not be matched, for his power of winning, when he had set
his heart to the task. In whatever deed of skill and daring his prowess
went before his knights and nobles--as, from childhood up, in whatever
teaching from books or men, he had distanced all his comrades--with that
strange facility and fascination with which the Genius of Cyprus might
have endowed her favorite in that lavish land, beloved of the gods,
where her great sea-bound plains were billows of flowers under a long
summer sky, and Nature's gifts came crowding, each upon each, in
bewildering redundancy.

Laughter-loving, born to conquer, quick to reward, Janus was tender and
generous to a fault; for it was whispered that he could take what lay
nearest to give to those who offered him adoring service on his
triumphal march, and that the murmur of the wronged belonged to the more
serious side of life for which his full-flowing Greek blood had small
patience. Such strange, unlikely tales one's enemy may tell!

And for his religion--be it Greek, or Latin, or whatever else--had he
not been named Archbishop of Nikosia at the responsible age of fifteen,
before he had exchanged the Episcopal Mitre for the Royal Crown?

These things were told, in all truth, of Janus II, King of Cyprus: and
if some others were known, they were not discussed. For the monarch had
lost his heart to the rare charm of the youthful Caterina, niece to a
Venetian noble who had become his friend in Cyprus, and had more than
once stood his helper with good Venetian gold; and who, in innocence or
wile, had one day given him sight of the girl's fair face with its
tender flush like a flower in spring, painted with rare skill by the
greatest artist of Venice. The breeze might have toyed with that mist of
golden hair, and the great dark eyes--softly luminous--had the
expectancy of a gazelle awaiting the joy of the daydawn. She was
daughter to one of the most ancient and noble of the patrician houses,
in direct descent, so the Cornari claimed, of the Cornelii of Rome.

"There need be no haste," the Signor Andrea had said lightly, as he
returned the miniature to its case blazoned in pearls with the arms of
the Cornari, "for the child is but fourteen, though she hath the
loveliness of twenty. But it is the way with our patricians of Venice,
and Messer Marco of the Cornari, father to Caterina, is already planning
with an ancient noble house of the elder branch with estates of unknown
wealth, for the marriage of his daughter. Thus the fancy of the King
must pass--there will be another--in Venice or Cyprus--the world is
large."

"Nay, none so beautiful," the King made answer; "and for me none other.
And for the matter of birth----"

"Naught hindereth that she might be Queen," Messer Andrea replied with
nonchalance, having a scheme somewhat more deeply laid than the casual
dropping of the miniature would seem to imply. "For the matter of
birth--it is a trifle--and doubtless the Republic would make her, by
adoption, Daughter to Venice--if there were aught in a created title to
enhance her princely name with semblance of royalty. But there are
already quarterings enough to match with the arms of Cyprus, and the
Lusignans are a house far less ancient than the Cornelii."

Messer Andrea could say things with a certain facile grace that kept
them from rankling, and at the moment the utterance of this truth was of
consequence.

The King threw him a quick glance, half in amusement, half in admiration
of his easy insolence, while Messer Andrea placidly explained that the
Casa Cornaro was one of the twelve original families which composed the
ancient ruling class of the Republic.

"And if the matter hath an interest for your Majesty," he continued,
"our great-grandfather on our father's side, was that Marco Cornaro who
was Doge of Venice; and the most noble Lady Fiorenza, mother to the
child Caterina and wife to my brother Marco, was grand-daughter to
Comnene, Emperor of Trebizonde. But that counteth little," he added
magnanimously; "since the Empire of Trebizonde hath ceased to be."

"For the matter of birth--verily, as thou hast said, 'it is a trifle,'"
the King admitted with a laugh: "but I must create thee Master to the
Pedigree of the House of Lusignan--a right royal post--and at thy
discretion thou mayest find or _make_ it of a color noble enough to mate
with thy fair maid of Venice."

"It pleaseth your Majesty to be of a merry mood. And for the dowry----"

Thence followed this embassy to Venice, for Janus was of those who would
bear no thwarting nor delay. The princely dowry was forthcoming, for it
had been offered by Messer Andrea Cornaro himself, and the condition of
adoption by the Republic, "that the bride might be of a station
befitting the royal alliance," well became the pleasure of the dignified
Signoria.


II


They had just told her a thing most strange--a secret that made her
childish heart stand still with wonder, then beat with a sort of
frightened excitement, all unbefitting the new dignity to which she was
called; for she was still enough a child to feel the glamour of it
through all the strangeness, and she had stolen out upon the balcony,
high over the Canal, to say over to herself the words that had been
confided to her--the little maid Caterina.

She dropped the title softly down to the water below, and started at the
echo of her own trembling voice.

_Caterina Queen of Cyprus_: Caterina--Regina!

A swaying figure in a passing gondola glanced up to the balcony of the
old Palazzo Cornaro and the young girl hastily fled, not pausing until
she had reached her own little chamber, looking on an inner court--the
only sanctuary that she could call her own, in all this great ancestral
palace, she, the future Queen of Cyprus.

Had any one heard her murmur those words? Would the Senate know that
some one in a gondola had caught the new title from her own lips? And
so--perchance--to punish the indiscretion--for the Senate was masterful,
never-to-be-disobeyed, and the matter was not to be known until it
should be declared by that solemn body of world-rulers. And if the
gondoliero had carried her word to the Palazzo San Marco----? What if
he had been sent there by the Senate itself to watch and see if she were
already woman enough to be trusted? Then there would be an end to the
golden dream--no coronation--no splendid ceremony of adoption. For there
was more. Before she should be made queen of that distant island she was
to be formally acknowledged "The Daughter of the Republic----" She was
to be made a real Princess of Venice!

What wonder that the heart of this young Venetian maid quivered with the
excitement of these visions of splendor, for by all the traditions of
her ancestors she measured the unwonted honor that was being decreed for
her--no one had yet been adopted "Daughter to the Republic"--the title
was to be created that she might wear a crown, to the further honor of
Venice! For her, who had never worn a jewel, nor a robe of state, nor
taken part in any but the simplest fête, who had never left the walls of
her ancestral palace, save under closest veil and guard--this sudden
vision of freedom and empire was intoxicating.

If she had known of those wonderful tales of the "Arabian Nights" these
things that were happening to her would have seemed more wonderful
still: but her young mind was free of similes--a sensitive blank whereon
the Senate might duly inscribe whatever tendencies seemed judicious; and
after the Betrothal there would be much time.

Caterina had taken courage again and stolen back to the balcony that
opened upon the Canal Grande from the vast upper salon, impelled by her
longing for freedom and light. The ripple of the water to the plash of
passing gondolas took on the note of distance and soothed her like a
lullaby, as the charming maid yielded herself to the golden
daydream--the soft breezes lifting the bright rings of hair that
clustered about her dainty head, while the wonderful light of the skies
of Venice smiled down upon her like a caress. The strangeness slipped
away from the new facts she had been repeating to herself, for she had
already begun to take pride in them; and the other questions that had
troubled her for a moment, were forgotten. All kings were to her
youthful imagination great and noble when they were the friends of the
Republic, and Janus was the close ally of Venice. In this stately
patrician household she had suddenly risen to be first--not only as all
maids are wont to be on the eve of their betrothal, with much
circumstance of laces and brocade and gifts and jewels--but she was to
bring new honor to their ancient house--honor even upon Venice, for her
father had declared that the Senators, the Councillors, all the great
men of the Republic--the Serenissimo himself--would bring her homage. It
was a dizzying dream of glory--beautiful, child-hearted and fancy-free,
she could dream of no more golden vision than the Signoria were
preparing for her.

So many generations of Cornari had gone forth from their palaces
scattered through the great places of Venice, as ambassadors on
momentous missions, or as Senators or Savii, had instilled the lesson of
the glory of service to Venice; and more than once the mighty Lion of
San Marco had set his imperial seal above their portal, and she,
Caterina, was to lead them all in the honor she was bringing upon her
country! If her own estimate of the part she was to play was a foolish
one, only a Venetian patrician maid could comprehend the glamour that
overlay this vision of Caterina's--the royal delivery from bondage--the
unknown delights it must open to her!

"Thou art sent for, _carina_, to the crimson salon; thy Father would
speak with thee."

It was the Lady Fiorenza, who seemed always a little sad to
Caterina--too sad for all the state that surrounded her; too grave to
suit the splendor of her silken robes and gleaming jewels; too weak to
cope with the masterful ways of her lord, the Senator Marco Cornaro. Her
mother's hand almost crushed hers in the strenuous clasp which,
strangely to Caterina, seemed to convey a passionate message of
sympathy; yet surely, at this radiant moment, there was nothing to
regret! She met the love in her mother's eyes with the smile of a
satisfied child, though she would have liked them all to rejoice with
her.

The curtain that hung before the door of the crimson salon was raised by
the page who stood in waiting. Her stately father rose to greet
her--which he had never done before in all her little life. She felt
with a sudden vague discomfort, that the world was changing for her.

"My daughter," he said, with a gravity of demeanor that befitted the
importance of his message, "thou bringest honor, not alone to the Casa
Cornaro, but also to the Republic. I have this day received from the
island of Cyprus--of which thou shalt be Queen--" and he bent his knee,
in courtly fashion before his child, as though he would be first to
bring her homage, "by the hand of the ambassador Mastachelli, this
portrait of thy Lord, Janus, the King; and these Eastern pearls--a royal
gift."

He kissed the little hand which Caterina eagerly stretched out for the
casket; but her mother covered her face with her hands, almost in an
attitude of prayer.

The miniature was blazing with diamonds, and the pearls were more
lustrous than any that had ever been seen in Venice--for Cyprus was even
beyond Venetia in luxury; and Caterina called to her mother, with a note
of triumph, to clasp them about her childish throat.

"I must learn to _look_ a Queen!" she said with a little, playful, regal
air: and then she dropped her eyes upon the beautiful, laughing face of
the royal lover who was to open paradise to her. Her father watched her
furtively; while her mother, over her child's shoulder, studied the
picture closely, feeling that it was too beautiful to trust.

"He is charming!" the girl cried in pleased surprise. She had not known
what his face would be like; she had scarcely had time to think of it
since the strange news had been brought her, a few hours before.

"He will be kind to thee," the mother said at length with conviction,
yet with a sigh, as if dissatisfied.

Caterina meanwhile, in the simple straight blue robe of a young Venetian
maiden, her dimpled throat encircled with the pearls that had been the
ransom of a kingdom, stood turning her miniature from side to side,
catching the sunlight on the jewels and the face, with the pleasure of a
child in a new and splendid toy--for it was all beautiful together. "He
is charming--charming, my King!" she repeated.

But a shadow had crept into her mother's eyes. "It is a face that an
artist might paint for his pleasure," she said with hesitation, as if
seeking expression for some vague fear that haunted her; "I pray that he
may make thee happy, _carina_; that he may be good and--and--noble."

"'Noble!'" cried Marco Cornaro, scornfully; "what seekest more? Is
Cyprus not enough for thy nobility? Is there another mother in Venice
who doth not envy thee thy fortune! Go to thy tire-women and consult
with them, for the Betrothal will be soon, by order of the Senate, and
there is small time to waste in regrets that somewhat more to thy liking
hath not befallen thee. See to it that the robing of Caterina be fit for
that other kingdom thou wouldst, perchance, have chosen for her."

"If he be noble--truly noble," the Lady Fiorenza said with unwonted
persistence--for something moved her to assert herself, "I ask no more."

But the Senator permitted her the questionable honor of unanswered
speech, as he turned with a scowl and left her. For her word had
rankled: since it was known, in the innermost circle of the Council and
there discussed in strictest secrecy, that had Janus been born in
Venice, the law would have excluded him from its _Libro d'Oro_, and no
patrician father would have sought him for his daughter. But Cyprus lay
far away beyond the sea which washed the borders of Venetia, and many of
Oriental race had peopled its shores--the ideals of Venice might be no
law for Cyprus.


III


These things took place in the spring of 1468; nor was it long before
the ceremonial had been prescribed and the pageant had been made ready
for the betrothal of the youthful Caterina; for the Senate could be as
prompt in action as far-seeing in judgment when haste seemed wise; and
other rulers were looking with no disfavor on the King of Cyprus in this
matter of an alliance, for it was known that overtures had already been
offered by the Court of Naples and by His Holiness of Rome for one of
his own family who had claim to his protection.

While Venice was plunged in a turmoil of preparation, the Casa Cornaro
gathered from all its palaces and surged up and down the grand stairway
of the Marco Cornari, bringing counsel, gifts and glorification; the
dowagers to the remotest branches, were much in evidence, refurbished,
and coming in solemn state to testify their approval of an alliance so
honorable to their house, with many wise worldly maxims and pious thanks
to the Madonna.

There was no quiet anywhere within the palazzo, save deep down in the
heart of the Lady Fiorenza, who had never been one with her family in
worldly ambitions; and far below the giddy current of the day's
happenings ran the ceaseless flow of the mother's wordless prayer,
enfolding her child--pleading that that which was to come to her should
make and keep her noble.

