"If you open the door, I will shoot you."

It was the voice of Joan!

"It is I, Joan," he called eagerly. "Look through the key-hole--it is
Jim!"

He walked back half-a-dozen paces in order to give her a clear view,
and, as he did so, he felt his hat jerked violently from his head.
That and the crack of the explosion came together, and he spun round
to face the danger. Nobody was in sight.

And then the door of the cottage opened.

"Keep inside," he cried. "For God's sake don't come out."

--Cincinnati Tablet.

(Back.) From Short.]

TOUCAN.

The _a priori_ probability that the toucan was known to the
Mound-Builders is, of course, much less than that the manatee was,
since no species of toucan occurs farther north than Southern Mexico.I saw him in the grounds," she went on, when
he had soothed her.

"And you hid in the bushes--I followed your tracks. He didn't see
you?"

She shook her head.

"Not until I was nearly at the cottage, and then he ran after me. Mrs.
Cornford had seen him, and had put up her shutters. It is Hamon, isn't
it?"

Jim nodded.

The shutters operated from inside the house, and he gently raised the
lower half of one and peered out. He had hardly done so before a
bullet smashed the window, tore a long, jagged hole in the wooden
shutter, and temporarily numbed his hand with the shock.

"I think we had better wait," he said. "Welling will have heard the
shots. Our only hope is that friend Hamon guesses, by my hasty
retreat, that I am unarmed, and comes to close quarters."

The cougar, to which several of the carvings can with but little
doubt be referred, was at the time of the discovery of America and
is to-day, where not exterminated by man, a common resident of the
whole of North America, including of course the whole of the
Mississippi Valley.

It would be surprising, therefore, if an animal so striking, and
one that has figured so largely in Indian totemism and folk-lore,
should not have received attention at the hands of the Mound-Builders.

Hamon knew that Jim Morlake would not fly into the house if
he had a gun handy; and he knew, too, that the sound of the shooting
must soon bring assistance. Already a curious and fearful knot of
children had gathered in the middle of the street at a respectful
distance, and if he were to accomplish his great revenge, and bring to
fruition a plan that had occupied his mind for the past three months,
he must move quickly.

He sprang from his place of concealment and ran across the cottage
garden; and, as he expected, he drew no fire from the house. He looked
round for something he could use as a battering-ram, and his eyes
returned to the wood pile, and going back, he picked up a heavy
branch and brought it to the door. The whole cottage seemed to shake
under the impact of the ram, and Jim, watching from the passage, knew
that the lock would not stand another blow.

"Keep back," he warned the girl in a whisper, and slipped through the
door which led from the passage into the room where Farringdon had
lost his life.

Again Hamon struck, and the lock broke with a crash. In another
second, Hamon had pushed open the door, and, gun in hand, had stepped
in. He saw the open doorway and guessed who stood there.

"Come out, Morlake!" he screamed. "Come out, you dog!"

He fired at the lintel, and the bullet ricochetted past Jim's face.
Jim was waiting for the second shot, and when it came he leapt out,
his little black pistol levelled.

Before Hamon could fire, Jim pressed the trigger. There was no
explosion. Only from the muzzle of the black "gun" shot with terrific
force a white spray of noxious vapour. It struck the would-be murderer
in the face, and with a choking gasp he fell heavily to the floor.

Jim's eyes were watering, he himself found it difficult to breathe,
and he came back for a moment to the girl, who held her handkerchief
to her mouth.

"Open the windows," he ordered quickly, and then went back to the
unconscious man, just as Welling and his men came flying up the path.

"It isn't pleasant, is it?" said Jim, eyeing his stubby gun with a
smile. "It has never carried a cartridge, because it isn't built that
way. It throws a spray of pure ammonia vapour, and throws it a
considerable distance."

It was necessary to put the maniac into a strait-jacket before he
could be moved to the nearest lock-up, and they did not see Welling
again until he came to Creith House late that afternoon, weary and
bedraggled, but with a look of triumph in his eyes.

"Well," he said, speaking to the company in general but addressing
Jim, "I have discovered the mystery is not such a mystery after all.
A small stream ran in the bottom, and this formed large pools amongst
numerous ponderous boulders that had fallen in from the top of the
walls some three thousand feet above our heads, the bottom being hardly
more than sixty to seventy-five feet wide."I am too," said the girl, "for it certainly puzzles me."

Lord Creith stretched his hands to the blazing warmth, rubbed them
together and ruminated profoundly.

"I give it up too--our American friend must explain. But perhaps you
have the document, Welling?"

Captain Welling smiled.

"It is here," he said, and produced Ralph Hamon's pocket-book. "It
seemed incredible to me that Hamon should carry about with him a
statement written by his victim that would most inevitably bring him
to the gallows if it ever was produced in a court of law."

"Then why the devil didn't he burn it?" asked Lord Creith irritably,
and for answer Welling produced the document.

Lord Creith read it through with a frown.

"He could have burnt this----" he began.

"Turn it over," said Welling quietly, and Creith obeyed.

He stared for a moment at the engraved letters on the other side.

"Good God!" he said.

_The statement was written on the back of a Bank of England note for
£100,000_.

"He could have burnt it," said Jim, "but his natural cupidity would
not allow him to destroy so much money. He dared not pay it into the
bank; he could not bring himself to do away with the evidence of his
guilt. When I found John Cornford, he was dying, and the first name I
heard was that of Ralph Hamon, whom I had met once in Tangier and knew
to be a shady customer. And then I recognised in the sailor the
mysterious visitor that Hamon had had some months before. Little by
little, I learnt from the half-sane man the story of Hamon's villainy.
In order that he might not be wronged, Cornford had changed all his
money into one note of a hundred thousand pounds. I was able to trace
that at the bank, and even if Hamon had presented it for payment, it
would have been stopped. The monkey and the gourd," he mused; "he
could not let go of his treasure and he was caught.While camped below Kanab, Clem and I in walking one day saw a place
where the creek which flowed on a level with the surroundings
suddenly plunged into a deep mud canyon.

       This canyon had been cut back from far below by the undermining
action of the falling water, and it was plain to see that it would
continue its retrogression till it eventually reached the mouth of
the great canyon several miles above, but I did not dream that it
could accomplish this work as rapidly as it actually did years after.

"Why, of course not, honey. It is very dear of you."

"He was a boy, just a silly, romantic boy, who had held such promise
of a big career, and I feel that this--this ruined him."

She was thinking of Ferdinand Farringdon, and Jim understood. They
halted near the place where the black pines hid the little church in
the wood, and she handed a great bunch of lilies to Jim as he got out
of the car.

"Lay them on the altar, Jim," she said, and he nodded and slammed the
door tight.

