Produced by Dagny; and John Bickers


                              Sarrasine

                                  By

                           Honore de Balzac


                            Translated by

                        Clara Bell and others


                              DEDICATION

                 To Monsieur Charles Bernard du Grail.


                              SARRASINE


I was buried in one of those profound reveries to which everybody,
even a frivolous man, is subject in the midst of the most uproarious
festivities. The clock on the Elysee-Bourbon had just struck midnight.
Seated in a window recess and concealed behind the undulating folds of
a curtain of watered silk, I was able to contemplate at my leisure the
garden of the mansion at which I was passing the evening. The trees,
being partly covered with snow, were outlined indistinctly against the
grayish background formed by a cloudy sky, barely whitened by the
moon. Seen through the medium of that strange atmosphere, they bore a
vague resemblance to spectres carelessly enveloped in their shrouds, a
gigantic image of the famous _Dance of Death_. Then, turning in the
other direction, I could gaze admiringly upon the dance of the living!
a magnificent salon, with walls of silver and gold, with gleaming
chandeliers, and bright with the light of many candles. There the
loveliest, the wealthiest women in Paris, bearers of the proudest
titles, moved hither and thither, fluttered from room to room in
swarms, stately and gorgeous, dazzling with diamonds; flowers on their
heads and breasts, in their hair, scattered over their dresses or
lying in garlands at their feet. Light quiverings of the body,
voluptuous movements, made the laces and gauzes and silks swirl about
their graceful figures. Sparkling glances here and there eclipsed the
lights and the blaze of the diamonds, and fanned the flame of hearts
already burning too brightly. I detected also significant nods of the
head for lovers and repellent attitudes for husbands. The exclamation
of the card-players at every unexpected _coup_, the jingle of gold,
mingled with music and the murmur of conversation; and to put the
finishing touch to the vertigo of that multitude, intoxicated by all
the seductions the world can offer, a perfume-laden atmosphere and
general exaltation acted upon their over-wrought imaginations. Thus,
at my right was the depressing, silent image of death; at my left the
decorous bacchanalia of life; on the one side nature, cold and gloomy,
and in mourning garb; on the other side, man on pleasure bent. And,
standing on the borderland of those two incongruous pictures, which
repeated thousands of times in diverse ways, make Paris the most
entertaining and most philosophical city in the world, I played a
mental _macedoine_[*], half jesting, half funereal. With my left foot
I kept time to the music, and the other felt as if it were in a tomb.
My leg was, in fact, frozen by one of those draughts which congeal one
half of the body while the other suffers from the intense heat of the
salons--a state of things not unusual at balls.

[*] _Macedoine_, in the sense in which it is here used, is a game, or
    rather a series of games, of cards, each player, when it is his
    turn to deal, selecting the game to be played.

"Monsieur de Lanty has not owned this house very long, has he?"

"Oh, yes! It is nearly ten years since the Marechal de Carigliano sold
it to him."

"Ah!"

"These people must have an enormous fortune."

"They surely must."

"What a magnificent party! It is almost insolent in its splendor."

"Do you imagine they are as rich as Monsieur de Nucingen or Monsieur
de Gondreville?"

"Why, don't you know?"

I leaned forward and recognized the two persons who were talking as
members of that inquisitive genus which, in Paris, busies itself
exclusively with the _Whys_ and _Hows_. _Where does he come from? Who
are they? What's the matter with him? What has she done?_ They lowered
their voices and walked away in order to talk more at their ease on
some retired couch. Never was a more promising mine laid open to
seekers after mysteries. No one knew from what country the Lanty
family came, nor to what source--commerce, extortion, piracy, or
inheritance--they owed a fortune estimated at several millions. All
the members of the family spoke Italian, French, Spanish, English, and
German, with sufficient fluency to lead one to suppose that they had
lived long among those different peoples. Were they gypsies? were they
buccaneers?

"Suppose they're the devil himself," said divers young politicians,
"they entertain mighty well."

"The Comte de Lanty may have plundered some _Casbah_ for all I care; I
would like to marry his daughter!" cried a philosopher.

Who would not have married Marianina, a girl of sixteen, whose beauty
realized the fabulous conceptions of Oriental poets! Like the Sultan's
daughter in the tale of the _Wonderful Lamp_, she should have remained
always veiled. Her singing obscured the imperfect talents of the
Malibrans, the Sontags, and the Fodors, in whom some one dominant
quality always mars the perfection of the whole; whereas Marianina
combined in equal degree purity of tone, exquisite feeling, accuracy
of time and intonation, science, soul, and delicacy. She was the type
of that hidden poesy, the link which connects all the arts and which
always eludes those who seek it. Modest, sweet, well-informed, and
clever, none could eclipse Marianina unless it was her mother.

Have you ever met one of those women whose startling beauty defies the
assaults of time, and who seem at thirty-six more desirable than they
could have been fifteen years earlier? Their faces are impassioned
souls; they fairly sparkle; each feature gleams with intelligence;
each possesses a brilliancy of its own, especially in the light. Their
captivating eyes attract or repel, speak or are silent; their gait is
artlessly seductive; their voices unfold the melodious treasures of
the most coquettishly sweet and tender tones. Praise of their beauty,
based upon comparisons, flatters the most sensitive self-esteem. A
movement of their eyebrows, the slightest play of the eye, the curling
of the lip, instils a sort of terror in those whose lives and
happiness depend upon their favor. A maiden inexperienced in love and
easily moved by words may allow herself to be seduced; but in dealing
with women of this sort, a man must be able, like M. de Jaucourt, to
refrain from crying out when, in hiding him in a closet, the lady's
maid crushes two of his fingers in the crack of a door. To love one of
these omnipotent sirens is to stake one's life, is it not? And that,
perhaps, is why we love them so passionately! Such was the Comtesse de
Lanty.

Filippo, Marianina's brother, inherited, as did his sister, the
Countess' marvelous beauty. To tell the whole story in a word, that
young man was a living image of Antinous, with somewhat slighter
proportions. But how well such a slender and delicate figure accords
with youth, when an olive complexion, heavy eyebrows, and the gleam of
a velvety eye promise virile passions, noble ideas for the future! If
Filippo remained in the hearts of young women as a type of manly
beauty, he likewise remained in the memory of all mothers as the best
match in France.

The beauty, the great wealth, the intellectual qualities, of these two
children came entirely from their mother. The Comte de Lanty was a
short, thin, ugly little man, as dismal as a Spaniard, as great a bore
as a banker. He was looked upon, however, as a profound politician,
perhaps because he rarely laughed, and was always quoting M. de
Metternich or Wellington.

This mysterious family had all the attractiveness of a poem by Lord
Byron, whose difficult passages were translated differently by each
person in fashionable society; a poem that grew more obscure and more
sublime from strophe to strophe. The reserve which Monsieur and Madame
de Lanty maintained concerning their origin, their past lives, and
their relations with the four quarters of the globe would not, of
itself, have been for long a subject of wonderment in Paris. In no
other country, perhaps, is Vespasian's maxim more thoroughly
understood. Here gold pieces, even when stained with blood or mud,
betray nothing, and represent everything. Provided that good society
knows the amount of your fortune, you are classed among those figures
which equal yours, and no one asks to see your credentials, because
everybody knows how little they cost. In a city where social problems
are solved by algebraic equations, adventurers have many chances in
their favor. Even if this family were of gypsy extraction, it was so
wealthy, so attractive, that fashionable society could well afford to
overlook its little mysteries. But, unfortunately, the enigmatical
history of the Lanty family offered a perpetual subject of curiosity,
not unlike that aroused by the novels of Anne Radcliffe.

People of an observing turn, of the sort who are bent upon finding out
where you buy your candelabra, or who ask you what rent you pay when
they are pleased with your apartments, had noticed, from time to time,
the appearance of an extraordinary personage at the fetes, concerts,
balls, and routs given by the countess. It was a man. The first time
that he was seen in the house was at a concert, when he seemed to have
been drawn to the salon by Marianina's enchanting voice.

"I have been cold for the last minute or two," said a lady near the
door to her neighbor.

The stranger, who was standing near the speaker, moved away.

"This is very strange! now I am warm," she said, after his departure.
"Perhaps you will call me mad, but I cannot help thinking that my
neighbor, the gentleman in black who just walked away, was the cause
of my feeling cold."

Ere long the exaggeration to which people in society are naturally
inclined, produced a large and growing crop of the most amusing ideas,
the most curious expressions, the most absurd fables concerning this
mysterious individual. Without being precisely a vampire, a ghoul, a
fictitious man, a sort of Faust or Robin des Bois, he partook of the
nature of all these anthropomorphic conceptions, according to those
persons who were addicted to the fantastic. Occasionally some German
would take for realities these ingenious jests of Parisian
evil-speaking. The stranger was simply _an old man_. Some young men,
who were accustomed to decide the future of Europe every morning in a
few fashionable phrases, chose to see in the stranger some great
criminal, the possessor of enormous wealth. Novelists described the old
man's life and gave some really interesting details of the atrocities
committed by him while he was in the service of the Prince of Mysore.
Bankers, men of a more positive nature, devised a specious fable.

"Bah!" they would say, shrugging their broad shoulders pityingly,
"that little old fellow's a _Genoese head_!"

"If it is not an impertinent question, monsieur, would you have the
kindness to tell me what you mean by a Genoese head?"

"I mean, monsieur, that he is a man upon whose life enormous sums
depend, and whose good health is undoubtedly essential to the
continuance of this family's income. I remember that I once heard a
mesmerist, at Madame d'Espard's, undertake to prove by very specious
historical deductions, that this old man, if put under the magnifying
glass, would turn out to be the famous Balsamo, otherwise called
Cagliostro. According to this modern alchemist, the Sicilian had
escaped death, and amused himself making gold for his grandchildren.
And the Bailli of Ferette declared that he recognized in this
extraordinary personage the Comte de Saint-Germain."

Such nonsense as this, put forth with the assumption of superior
cleverness, with the air of raillery, which in our day characterize a
society devoid of faith, kept alive vague suspicions concerning the
Lanty family. At last, by a strange combination of circumstances, the
members of that family justified the conjectures of society by
adopting a decidedly mysterious course of conduct with this old man,
whose life was, in a certain sense, kept hidden from all
investigations.

If he crossed the threshold of the apartment he was supposed to occupy
in the Lanty mansion, his appearance always caused a great sensation
in the family. One would have supposed that it was an event of the
greatest importance. Only Filippo, Marianina, Madame de Lanty, and an
old servant enjoyed the privilege of assisting the unknown to walk, to
rise, to sit down. Each one of them kept a close watch on his
slightest movements. It seemed as if he were some enchanted person
upon whom the happiness, the life, or the fortune of all depended. Was
it fear or affection? Society could discover no indication which
enabled them to solve this problem. Concealed for months at a time in
the depths of an unknown sanctuary, this familiar spirit suddenly
emerged, furtively as it were, unexpectedly, and appeared in the
salons like the fairies of old, who alighted from their winged dragons
to disturb festivities to which they had not been invited. Only the
most experienced observers could divine the anxiety, at such times, of
the masters of the house, who were peculiarly skilful in concealing
their feelings. But sometimes, while dancing a quadrille, the too
ingenuous Marianina would cast a terrified glance at the old man, whom
she watched closely from the circle of dancers. Or perhaps Filippo
would leave his place and glide through the crowd to where he stood,
and remain beside him, affectionate and watchful, as if the touch of
man, or the faintest breath, would shatter that extraordinary
creature. The countess would try to draw nearer to him without
apparently intending to join him; then, assuming a manner and an
expression in which servility and affection, submissiveness and
tyranny, were equally noticeable, she would say two or three words, to
which the old man almost always deferred; and he would disappear, led,
or I might better say carried away, by her. If Madame de Lanty were
not present, the Count would employ a thousand ruses to reach his
side; but it always seemed as if he found difficulty in inducing him
to listen, and he treated him like a spoiled child, whose mother
gratifies his whims and at the same time suspects mutiny. Some prying
persons having ventured to question the Comte de Lanty indiscreetly,
that cold and reserved individual seemed not to understand their
questions. And so, after many attempts, which the circumspection of
all the members of the family rendered fruitless, no one sought to
discover a secret so well guarded. Society spies, triflers, and
politicians, weary of the strife, ended by ceasing to concern
themselves about the mystery.

But at that moment, it may be, there were in those gorgeous salons
philosophers who said to themselves, as they discussed an ice or a
sherbet, or placed their empty punch glasses on a tray:

"I should not be surprised to learn that these people are knaves. That
old fellow who keeps out of sight and appears only at the equinoxes or
solstices, looks to me exactly like an assassin."

"Or a bankrupt."

"There's very little difference. To destroy a man's fortune is worse
than to kill the man himself."

"I bet twenty louis, monsieur; there are forty due me."

"Faith, monsieur; there are only thirty left on the cloth."

"Just see what a mixed company there is! One can't play cards in
peace."

"Very true. But it's almost six months since we saw the Spirit. Do you
think he's a living being?"

"Well, barely."

These last remarks were made in my neighborhood by persons whom I did
not know, and who passed out of hearing just as I was summarizing in
one last thought my reflections, in which black and white, life and
death, were inextricably mingled. My wandering imagination, like my
eyes, contemplated alternately the festivities, which had now reached
the climax of their splendor, and the gloomy picture presented by the
gardens. I have no idea how long I meditated upon those two faces of
the human medal; but I was suddenly aroused by the stifled laughter of
a young woman. I was stupefied at the picture presented to my eyes. By
virtue of one of the strangest of nature's freaks, the thought half
draped in black, which was tossing about in my brain, emerged from it
and stood before me personified, living; it had come forth like
Minerva from Jupiter's brain, tall and strong; it was at once a
hundred years old and twenty-two; it was alive and dead. Escaped from
his chamber, like a madman from his cell, the little old man had
evidently crept behind a long line of people who were listening
attentively to Marianina's voice as she finished the cavatina from
_Tancred_. He seemed to have come up through the floor, impelled by
some stage mechanism. He stood for a moment motionless and sombre,
watching the festivities, a murmur of which had perhaps reached his
ears. His almost somnambulistic preoccupation was so concentrated upon
things that, although he was in the midst of many people, he saw
nobody. He had taken his place unceremoniously beside one of the most
fascinating women in Paris, a young and graceful dancer, with slender
figure, a face as fresh as a child's, all pink and white, and so
fragile, so transparent, that it seemed that a man's glance must pass
through her as the sun's rays pass through flawless glass. They stood
there before me, side by side, so close together, that the stranger
rubbed against the gauze dress, and the wreaths of flowers, and the
hair, slightly crimped, and the floating ends of the sash.

I had brought that young woman to Madame de Lanty's ball. As it was
her first visit to that house, I forgave her her stifled laugh; but I
hastily made an imperious sign which abashed her and inspired respect
for her neighbor. She sat down beside me. The old man did not choose
to leave the charming creature, to whom he clung capriciously with the
silent and apparently causeless obstinacy to which very old persons
are subject, and which makes them resemble children. In order to sit
down beside the young lady he needed a folding-chair. His slightest
movements were marked by the inert heaviness, the stupid hesitancy,
which characterize the movements of a paralytic. He sat slowly down
upon his chair with great caution, mumbling some unintelligible words.
His cracked voice resembled the noise made by a stone falling into a
well. The young woman nervously pressed my hand, as if she were trying
to avoid a precipice, and shivered when that man, at whom she happened
to be looking, turned upon her two lifeless, sea-green eyes, which
could be compared to nothing save tarnished mother-of-pearl.

"I am afraid," she said, putting her lips to my ear.

"You can speak," I replied; "he hears with great difficulty."

"You know him, then?"

"Yes."

Thereupon she summoned courage to scrutinize for a moment that
creature for which no human language has a name, form without
substance, a being without life, or life without action. She was under
the spell of that timid curiosity which impels women to seek perilous
excitement, to gaze at chained tigers and boa-constrictors, shuddering
all the while because the barriers between them are so weak. Although
the little old man's back was bent like a day-laborer's, it was easy
to see that he must formerly have been of medium height. His excessive
thinness, the slenderness of his limbs, proved that he had always been
of slight build. He wore black silk breeches which hung about his
fleshless thighs in folds, like a lowered veil. An anatomist would
instinctively have recognized the symptoms of consumption in its
advanced stages, at sight of the tiny legs which served to support
that strange frame. You would have said that they were a pair of
cross-bones on a gravestone. A feeling of profound horror seized the
heart when a close scrutiny revealed the marks made by decrepitude
upon that frail machine.

He wore a white waistcoat embroidered with gold, in the old style, and
his linen was of dazzling whiteness. A shirt-frill of English lace,
yellow with age, the magnificence of which a queen might have envied,
formed a series of yellow ruffles on his breast; but upon him the lace
seemed rather a worthless rag than an ornament. In the centre of the
frill a diamond of inestimable value gleamed like a sun. That
superannuated splendor, that display of treasure, of great intrinsic
worth, but utterly without taste, served to bring out in still bolder
relief the strange creature's face. The frame was worthy of the
portrait. That dark face was full of angles and furrowed deep in every
direction; the chin was furrowed; there were great hollows at the
temples; the eyes were sunken in yellow orbits. The maxillary bones,
which his indescribable gauntness caused to protrude, formed deep
cavities in the centre of both cheeks. These protuberances, as the
light fell upon them, caused curious effects of light and shadow which
deprived that face of its last vestige of resemblance to the human
countenance. And then, too, the lapse of years had drawn the fine,
yellow skin so close to the bones that it described a multitude of
wrinkles everywhere, either circular like the ripples in the water
caused by a stone which a child throws in, or star-shaped like a pane
of glass cracked by a blow; but everywhere very deep, and as close
together as the leaves of a closed book. He was an {239} athletic man
of out-door habits, an enthusiastic sportsman, and a lover of natural
scenery. His admiration of Wordsworth was thought to have led him to
imitation of the latter, in his _Isle of Palms_, 1812, and his other
poetry.

One of Wilson's companions, in his mountain walks, was Thomas De Quincey,
who had been led by his reverence for Wordsworth and Coleridge to
take up his residence, in 1808, at Grasmere, where he occupied
for many years the cottage from which Wordsworth had removed to Allan
Bank. De Quincey was a shy, bookish little man, of erratic, nocturnal
habits, who impresses one, personally, as a child of genius, with a
child's helplessness and a child's sharp observation. He was, above
all things, a magazinist. All his writings, with one exception,
appeared first in the shape of contributions to periodicals; and his
essays, literary criticisms, and miscellaneous papers are exceedingly
rich and varied. The most famous of them was his _Confessions of an
English Opium Eater_, published as a serial in the _London
Magazine_, in 1821. He had begun to take opium, as a cure for the
toothache, when a student at Oxford, where he resided from 1803 to
1808. By 1816 he had risen to eight thousand drops of laudanum a
day. For several years after this he experienced the acutest misery,
and his will suffered an entire paralysis. In 1821 he succeeded in
reducing his dose to a comparatively small allowance, and in shaking
off his torpor so as to become capable of literary work. {240} The
most impressive effect of the opium habit was seen in his dreams,
in the unnatural expansion of space and time, and the infinite
repetition of the same objects. His sleep was filled with dim, vast
images; measureless cavalcades deploying to the sound of orchestral
music; an endless succession of vaulted halls, with staircases
climbing to heaven, up which toiled eternally the same solitary
figure.

"Then came sudden alarms, hurrying to and fro; trepidations of
innumerable fugitives; darkness and light; tempest and human faces."

Many of De Quincey's papers were autobiographical, but there is always
something baffling in these reminiscences. In the interminable
wanderings of his pen--for which, perhaps, opium was responsible--he
appears to lose all trace of facts or of any continuous story. Every
actual experience of his life seems to have been taken up into a
realm of dream, and there distorted till the reader sees not the
real figures, but the enormous, grotesque shadows of them, executing
wild dances on a screen.

An instance of this process is described by himself in his _Vision of
Sudden Death_. But his unworldliness and faculty of vision-seeing were
not inconsistent with the keenness of judgment and the justness and
delicacy of perception displayed in his _Biographical Sketches_ of
Wordsworth, Coleridge, and other contemporaries: in his critical
papers on _Pope, Milton, Lessing, Homer and the Homeridae_: his essay
on _Style_; and his _Brief Appraisal of the Greek Literature_. His
curious scholarship is seen in his articles on the _Toilet of a {241}
Hebrew Lady_, and the _Casuistry of Roman Meals_; his ironical and
somewhat elaborate humor in his essay on _Murder Considered as One of
the Fine Arts_. Of his narrative pieces the most remarkable is his
_Revolt of the Tartars_, describing the flight of a Kalmuck tribe
of six hundred thousand souls from Russia to the Chinese frontier:
a great hegira or anabasis, which extended for four thousand miles
over desert steppes infested with foes; occupied six months' time,
and left nearly half of the tribe dead upon the way.

The subject was suited to De Quincey's imagination.

It was like one of his own opium visions, and he handled it with a dignity
and force which make the history not altogether unworthy of comparison
with Thucydides's great chapter on the Sicilian Expedition.

An intimate friend of Southey was Walter Savage Landor, a man of kingly
nature, of a leonine presence, with a most stormy and unreasonable
temper, and yet with the courtliest graces of manner and with--said
Emerson--a "wonderful brain, despotic, violent, and inexhaustible."

He inherited wealth, and lived a great part of his life at Florence,
where he died, in 1864, in his ninetieth year. Dickens, who knew
him at Bath, in the latter part of his life, made a kindly
caricature of him as Lawrence Boythom, in _Bleak House_, whose
"combination of superficial ferocity and inherent tenderness," testifies
Henry Crabb Robinson, in his _Diary_, was true to the life.

Landor is the most purely classical of English writers. Not merely his
themes {242} but his whole way of thinking was pagan and antique.
He composed, indifferently, in English or Latin, preferring the
latter, if any thing, in obedience to his instinct for compression
and exclusiveness.

Thus portions of his narrative poem, _Gebir_, 1798, were written
originally in Latin, and he added a Latin version, _Gebirius_,
to the English edition. In like manner his _Hellenics_, 1847, were
mainly translations from his Latin _Idyllia Heroica_, written years
before.

The Hellenic clearness and repose which were absent from his life,
Landor sought in his art.

His poems, in their restraint, their objectivity, their aloofness from
modern feeling, have something chill and artificial. The verse
of poets like Byron and Wordsworth is alive; the blood runs in it. But
Landor's polished, clean-cut _intaglios_ have been well described
as "written in marble."

He was a master of fine and solid prose. His _Pericles and Aspasia_
consists of a series of letters passing between the great Athenian
demagogue, the hetaira, Aspasia, her friend, Cleone of Miletus,
Anaxagorus, the philosopher, and Pericles's nephew, Alcibiades.

In this masterpiece the intellectual life of Athens, at its period
of highest refinement, is brought before the reader with singular
vividness, and he is made to breathe an atmosphere of high-bred
grace, delicate wit, and thoughtful sentiment, expressed in English
"of Attic choice."

The _Imaginary Conversations_, 1824-1846, were Platonic dialogues
between a great variety of historical characters; between, for
example, Dante and Beatrice, Washington {243} and Franklin, Queen
Elisabeth and Cecil, Xenophon and Cyrus the Younger, Bonaparte and
the President of the Senate.

Landor's writings have never been popular; they address an aristocracy
of scholars; and Byron--whom Landor disliked and considered
vulgar--sneered at the latter as a writer who "cultivated much
private renown in the shape of Latin verses."

He said of himself that he "never contended with a contemporary, but
walked alone on the far eastern uplands, meditating and remembering."

A schoolmate of Coleridge, at Christ's Hospital, and his friend and
correspondent through life, was Charles Lamb, one of the most charming
of English essayists. He was an old bachelor, who lived alone with
his sister Mary a lovable and intellectual woman, but subject to
recurring attacks of madness. Lamb was "a notched and cropped scrivener,
a votary of the desk," a clerk, that is, in the employ of the East
India Company.
He was of antiquarian tastes, an ardent play-goer, a lover of whist and
of the London streets; and these tastes are reflected in his _Essays
of Elia_, contributed to the _London Magazine_ and reprinted in
book form in 1823. From his mousing among the Elisabethan dramatists
and such old humorists as Burton and Fuller, his own style imbibed a
peculiar quaintness and pungency. His _Specimens of English Dramatic
Poets_, 1808, is admirable for its critical insight. In 1802 he paid
a visit to Coleridge at Keswick, in the Lake Country; but he
felt or {244} affected a whimsical horror of the mountains, and
said, "Fleet Street and the Strand are better places to live in."

Among the best of his essays are _Dream Children_, _Poor Relations_,
_The Artificial Comedy of the Last Century_, _Old China_, _Roast
Pig_, _A Defense of Chimney-sweeps_, _A Complaint of the Decay of
Beggars in the Metropolis_, and _The Old Benchers of the Inner
Temple_.

The romantic movement, preluded by Gray, Collins, Chatterton, Macpherson,
and others, culminated in Walter Scott (1771-1832). His passion for
the medieval was first excited by reading Percy's _Reliques_, when
he was a boy; and in one of his school themes he maintained that
Ariosto was a greater poet than Homer. He began early to collect
manuscript ballads, suits of armor, pieces of old plate, border-horns,
and similar relics.
He learned Italian in order to read the romancers--Ariosto, Tasso, Pulci,
and Boiardo, preferring them to Dante. He studied Gothic architecture,
heraldry, and the art of fortification, and made drawings of famous
ruins and battle-fields.

In particular he read eagerly every thing that he could lay hands
on relating to the history, legends, and antiquities of the Scottish
border--the vale of Tweed, Teviotdale, Ettrick Forest, and the
Yarrow, of all which land he became the laureate, as Burns had been
of Ayrshire and the "West Country."

Scott, like Wordsworth, was an out-door poet.

He spent much time in the saddle, and was fond of horses, dogs, hunting,
and salmon-fishing.

He had a keen {245} eye for the beauties of natural scenery, though "more
especially," he admits, "when combined with ancient ruins or remains
of our forefathers' piety or splendor."

He had the historic imagination, and, in creating the historical
novel, he was the first to throw a poetic glamour over European
annals. In 1803 Wordsworth visited Scott at Lasswade, near Edinburgh;
and Scott afterward returned the visit at Grasmere.
Wordsworth noted that his guest was "full of anecdote and averse from
disquisition." The Englishman was a moralist and much given
to "disquisition," while the Scotchman was, above all things, a
_raconteur_, and, perhaps, on the whole, the foremost of British
story-tellers.

Scott's Toryism, too, was of a different stripe from Wordsworth's,
being rather the result of sentiment and imagination than of philosophy
and reflection.

His mind struck deep root in the past; his local attachments and
family pride were intense.

Abbotsford was his darling, and the expenses of this domain and of the
baronial hospitality which he there extended to all comers were among
the causes of his bankruptcy. The enormous toil which he exacted of
himself, to pay off the debt of 117,000 pounds, contracted by the
failure of his publishers, cost him his life.

It is said that he was more gratified when the Prince Regent created
him a baronet, in 1820, than by all the public recognition that he
acquired as the author of the Waverley Novels.

Scott was attracted by the romantic side of {246} German literature.
His first published poem was a translation made in 1796 from
Burger's wild ballad, _Leonora_.

He followed this up with versions of the same poet's _Wilde Jäger_,
of Goethe's violent drama of feudal life, _Götz Van Berlichingen_,
and with other translations from the German, of a similar class.

On his horseback trips through the border, where he studied the primitive
manners of the Liddesdale people, and took down old ballads from
the recitation of ancient dames and cottagers, he amassed the
materials for his _Minstrelsy of the Scottish Border_, 1802.

But the first of his original poems was the _Lay of the Last Minstrel_,
published in 1805, and followed, in quick succession, by _Marmion_, the
_Lady of the Lake_, _Rokeby_, the _Lord of the Isles_, and a volume
of ballads and lyrical pieces, all issued during the years 1806-1814.

The popularity won by this series of metrical romances was immediate
and wide-spread.
Nothing so fresh, or so brilliant, had appeared in English poetry
for nearly two centuries.

The reader was hurried along through scenes of rapid action, whose
effect was heightened by wild landscapes and picturesque manners.

The pleasure was a passive one. There was no deep thinking to perplex,
no subtler beauties to pause upon; the feelings were stirred
pleasantly, but not deeply; the effect was on the surface.

The spell employed was novelty--or, at most, wonder--and the chief
emotion aroused was breathless interest in the progress of the
story. Carlyle said that Scott's genius was _in extenso_, {247} rather
than _in intenso_, and that its great praise was its healthiness.
This is true of his verse, but not altogether so of his prose, which
exhibits deeper qualities. Some of Scott's most perfect poems, too,
are his shorter ballads, like _Jock o' Hazeldean_, and _Proud Maisie
is in the Wood_, which have a greater intensity and compression
than his metrical tales.

From 1814 to 1831 Scott wrote and published the _Waverley_ novels,
some thirty in number; if we consider the amount of work done, the
speed with which it was done, and the general average of excellence
maintained, perhaps the most marvelous literary feat on record.

The series was issued anonymously, and takes its name from the
first number, _Waverley, or 'Tis Sixty Years Since_. This was founded
upon the rising of the clans, in 1745, in support of the Young
Pretender, Charles Edward Stuart, and it revealed to the English
public that almost foreign country which lay just across their
threshold, the Scottish Highlands.

The _Waverley_ novels remain, as a whole, unequaled as historical
fiction, although, here and there a single novel, like George Eliot's
_Romola_, or Thackeray's _Henry Esmond_, or Kingsley's _Hypatia_,
may have attained a place beside the best of them.

They were a novelty when they appeared.

English prose fiction had somewhat declined since the time of Fielding
and Goldsmith. There were truthful, though rather tame, delineations
of provincial life, like Jane Austen's _Sense and Sensibility_,
1811, and {248} _Pride and Prejudice_, 1813; or Maria Edgeworth's
_Popular Tales_, 1804. On the other hand, there were Gothic romances,
like the _Monk_ of Matthew Gregory Lewis, to whose _Tales of Wonder_
some of Scott's translations from the German had been contributed;
or like Anne Radcliffe's _Mysteries of Udolpho_. The great original of
this school of fiction was Horace Walpole's _Castle of Otranto_, 1765,
an absurd tale of secret trap-doors, subterranean vaults, apparitions
of monstrous mailed figures and colossal helmets, pictures that descend
from their frames, and hollow voices that proclaim the ruin of ancient
families.

Scott used the machinery of romance, but he was not merely a romancer,
or a historical novelist even, and it is not, as Carlyle implies,
the buff-belts and jerkins which principally interest us in his
heroes.
_Ivanhoe_ and _Kenilworth_ and the _Talisman_ are, indeed, romances pure
and simple, and very good romances at that. But, in novels such as
_Rob Roy_, the _Antiquary_, the _Heart of Midlothian_, and the _Bride
of Lammermoor_, Scott drew from contemporary life, and from
his intimate knowledge of Scotch character. The story is there, with
its entanglement of plot and its exciting adventures, but there
are also, as truly as in Shakspere, though not in the same degree,
the observation of life, the knowledge of men, the power of dramatic
creation. No writer awakens in his readers a warmer personal affection
than Walter Scott, the brave, honest, kindly gentleman, the noblest
{249} figure among the literary men of his generation.

Another Scotch poet was Thomas Campbell, whose _Pleasures of Hope_,
1799, was written in Pope's couplet, and in the stilted diction of
the eighteenth century. _Gertrude of Wyoming_, 1809, a long narrative
poem in Spenserian stanza, is untrue to the scenery and life of
Pennsylvania, where its scene is laid.
Sarrasine was decidedly ugly,
always badly dressed, and naturally so independent, so irregular in
his private life, that the illustrious nymph, dreading some
catastrophe, soon remitted the sculptor to love of the arts. Sophie
Arnould made some witty remark on the subject. She was surprised, I
think, that her colleague was able to triumph over statues.

"Sarrasine started for Italy in 1758. On the journey his ardent
imagination took fire beneath a sky of copper and at the sight of the
marvelous monuments with which the fatherland of the arts is strewn.
He admired the statues, the frescoes, the pictures; and, fired with a
spirit of emulation, he went on to Rome, burning to inscribe his name
between the names of Michelangelo and Bouchardon. At first, therefore,
he divided his time between his studio work and examination of the
works of art which abound in Rome. He had already passed a fortnight
in the ecstatic state into which all youthful imaginations fall at the
sight of the queen of ruins, when he happened one evening to enter the
Argentina theatre, in front of which there was an enormous crowd. He
inquired the reasons for the presence of so great a throng, and every
one answered by two names:

"'Zambinella! Jomelli!'

"He entered and took a seat in the pit, crowded between two
unconscionably stout _abbati_; but luckily he was quite near the
stage. The curtain rose. For the first time in his life he heard the
music whose charms Monsieur Jean-Jacques Rousseau had extolled so
eloquently at one of Baron d'Holbach's evening parties. The young
sculptor's senses were lubricated, so to speak, by Jomelli's
harmonious strains. The languorous peculiarities of those skilfully
blended Italian voices plunged him in an ecstasy of delight. He sat
there, mute and motionless, not even conscious of the crowding of the
two priests. His soul poured out through his ears and his eyes. He
seemed to be listening with every one of his pores. Suddenly a
whirlwind of applause greeted the appearance of the prima donna. She
came forward coquettishly to the footlights and curtsied to the
audience with infinite grace. The brilliant light, the enthusiasm of a
vast multitude, the illusion of the stage, the glamour of a costume
which was most attractive for the time, all conspired in that woman's
favor. Sarrasine cried aloud with pleasure. He saw before him at that
moment the ideal beauty whose perfections he had hitherto sought here
and there in nature, taking from one model, often of humble rank, the
rounded outline of a shapely leg, from another the contour of the
breast; from another her white shoulders; stealing the neck of that
young girl, the hands of this woman, and the polished knees of yonder
child, but never able to find beneath the cold skies of Paris the rich
and satisfying creations of ancient Greece. La Zambinella displayed in
her single person, intensely alive and delicate beyond words, all
those exquisite proportions of the female form which he had so
ardently longed to behold, and of which a sculptor is the most severe
and at the same time the most passionate judge. She had an expressive
mouth, eyes instinct with love, flesh of dazzling whiteness. And add
to these details, which would have filled a painter's soul with
rapture, all the marvelous charms of the Venuses worshiped and copied
by the chisel of the Greeks. The artist did not tire of admiring the
inimitable grace with which the arms were attached to the body, the
wonderful roundness of the throat, the graceful curves described by
the eyebrows and the nose, and the perfect oval of the face, the
purity of its clean-cut lines, and the effect of the thick, drooping
lashes which bordered the large and voluptuous eyelids. She was more
than a woman; she was a masterpiece! In that unhoped-for creation
there was love enough to enrapture all mankind, and beauties
calculated to satisfy the most exacting critic.

"Sarrasine devoured with his eyes what seemed to him Pygmalion's
statue descended from its pedestal. But the aim of the Gnostics to
establish themselves on the uncorrupted apostolic tradition gathered
from writings was crossed by three tendencies, which, moreover, were
all jointly operative in the Christian communities and are therefore
not peculiar to Gnosticism. (1) By faith in the continuance of prophecy,
in which new things are always revealed by the Holy Spirit (the
Basilidean and Marcionite prophets).
(2) By the assumption of an esoteric secret tradition of the Apostles
(see Clem. Strom. VII. 17. 106, 108, Hipp. Philos. VII. 20, Iren. I.
25.
5, III. 2. 1, Tertull. de præscr. 25. Cf. the Gnostic book [Greek:
Pistis Sophia], which in great part is based on doctrines said to
be imparted by Jesus to his disciples after his resurrection). (3)
By the inability to oppose the continuous production of Evangelic
writings in other words by the continuance of this kind of literature
and the addition of Acts of the Apostles (Gospel of the Egyptians (?)

, other Gospels, Acts of John, Thomas, Philip etc. We know absolutely
nothing about the conditions under which these writings originated
the measure of authority which they enjoyed or the way in which
they gained that authority).

In all these points which in Gnosticism hindered the development
of Christianity to the religion of a new book the Gnostic schools
shew that they stood precisely under the same conditions as the
Christian communities in general (see above Chap. 3 § 2). If
all things do not deceive us, the same inner development may be
observed even in the Valentinian school, as in the great Church viz.
the production of sacred Evangelic and Apostolic writings, prophecy
and secret gnosis, falling more and more into the background, and
the completed Canon becoming the most important basis of the doctrine
of religion. The later Valentinians (see Tertull. de præscr. and
adv. Valent.) seem to have appealed chiefly to this Canon, and
Tatian no less (about whose Canon see my Texte u Unters I. 1.
2. pp. 213-218).
He felt a void within him, a sense of
goneness like the utter lack of strength which discourages a
convalescent just recovering from a serious sickness. Overwhelmed by
inexplicable melancholy, he sat down on the steps of a church. There,
with his back resting against a pillar, he lost himself in a fit of
meditation as confused as a dream. Passion had dealt him a crushing
blow. On his return to his apartments he was seized by one of those
paroxysms of activity which reveal to us the presence of new
principles in our existence. A prey to that first fever of love which
resembles pain as much as pleasure, he sought to defeat his impatience
and his frenzy by sketching La Zambinella from memory. It was a sort
of material meditation. Upon one leaf La Zambinella appeared in that
pose, apparently calm and cold, affected by Raphael, Georgione, and
all the great painters. On another, she was coyly turning her head as
she finished a roulade, and seemed to be listening to herself.
Sarrasine drew his mistress in all poses: he drew her unveiled,
seated, standing, reclining, chaste, and amorous--interpreting, thanks
to the delirious activity of his pencil, all the fanciful ideas which
beset our imagination when our thoughts are completely engrossed by a
mistress. But his frantic thoughts outran his pencil. He met La
Zambinella, spoke to her, entreated her, exhausted a thousand years of
life and happiness with her, placing her in all imaginable situations,
trying the future with her, so to speak. The next day he sent his
servant to hire a box near the stage for the whole season. Then, like
all young men of powerful feelings, he exaggerated the difficulties of
his undertaking, and gave his passion, for its first pasturage, the
joy of being able to admire his mistress without obstacle. The golden
age of love, during which we enjoy our own sentiments, and in which we
are almost as happy by ourselves, was not likely to last long with
Sarrasine. However, events surprised him when he was still under the
spell of that springtime hallucination, as naive as it was voluptuous.
In a week he lived a whole lifetime, occupied through the day in
molding the clay with which he succeeded in copying La Zambinella,
notwithstanding the veils, the skirts, the waists, and the bows of
ribbon which concealed her from him. In the evening, installed at an
early hour in his box, alone, reclining on a sofa, he made for
himself, like a Turk drunk with opium, a happiness as fruitful, as
lavish, as he wished. Early English Literature. By Bernhard ten Brink.
Translated from the German by H. M. Kennedy. New York: Henry Holt &
Co., 1883.

2. Morris and Skeat's Specimens of Early English. (Clarendon Press
Series.) Oxford.

3. Langland's Vision of William concerning Piers the Plowman. Wright's
Edition; or Skeat's, in Early English Text Society publications.

4. Chaucer: Canterbury Tales. Tyrwhitt's Edition; or Wright's, in Percy
Society publications.

5. Complete Writings. Morris's Edition. 6 vols. (In Aldine Series.)

[1] Hue.

[2] Those.

[3] Realm.

[4] Bowstring.

[5] Pain.

[6] Branch.

{42}
CHAPTER II.

FROM CHAUCER TO SPENSER.

1400-1599.

The 15th century was a barren period in English literary history. It
was nearly two hundred years after Chaucer's death before any poet came,
whose name can be written in the same line with his. He was followed
at once by a number of imitators who caught the trick of his
language and verse, but lacked the genius to make any fine use of
them.

The manner of a true poet may be learned, but his style, in the high
sense of the word, remains his own secret. Some of the poems which
have been attributed to Chaucer and printed in editions of his
works, as the _Court of Love_, the _Flower and the Leaf_, the _Cuckow
and the Nightingale_, are now regarded by many scholars as the work
of later writers.

If not Chaucer's, they are of Chaucer's school, and the first two,
at least, are very pretty poems after the fashion of his minor pieces,
such as the _Boke of the Duchesse_ and the _Parlament of
Foules_.

Among his professed disciples was Thomas Occleve, a dull rhymer,
who, in his _Governail of Princes_, a didactic poem translated from
the Latin {43} about 1413, drew, or caused to be drawn, on the
margin of his MS. a colored portrait of his "maister dere and fader
reverent,"
"This londes verray tresour and richesse, Dethe by thy dethe hath
harm irreparable Unto us done; hir vengeable duresse Dispoiled hath
this londe of the swetnesse Of Rhetoryk."
Another versifier of this same generation was John Lydgate, a
Benedictine monk, of the Abbey of Bury St. Edmunds, in Suffolk, a
very prolix writer, who composed, among other things, the _Story
of Thebes_, as an addition to the _Canterbury Tales_. His ballad
of _London Lyckpenny_, recounting the adventures of a countryman
who goes to the law courts at Westminster in search of justice,
"But for lack of mony I could not speede,"
is of interest for the glimpse that it gives us of London street
life.
Chaucer's influence wrought more fruitfully in Scotland, whither
it was carried by James I., who had been captured by the English
when a boy of eleven, and brought up at Windsor as a prisoner of
State."He rushed from his box, after a sign of intelligence to La
Zambinella, who lowered her voluptuous eyelids modestly, like a woman
overjoyed to be understood at last. Then he hurried home, in order to
borrow from his wardrobe all the charms it could loan him. As he left
the theatre, a stranger grasped his arm.

"'Beware, Signor Frenchman,' he said in his ear. 'This is a matter of
life and death. Cardinal Cicognara is her protector, and he is no
trifler.'

"If a demon had placed the deep pit of hell between Sarrasine and La
Zambinella, he would have crossed it with one stride at that moment.
Like the horses of the immortal gods described by Homer, the
sculptor's love had traversed vast spaces in a twinkling.

"'If death awaited me on leaving the house, I would go the more
quickly,' he replied.

"'_Poverino!_' cried the stranger, as he disappeared.

"To talk of danger to a man in love is to sell him pleasure.
Sarrasine's valet had never seen his master so painstaking in the
matter of dress. His finest sword, a gift from Bouchardon, the
bow-knot Clotilde gave him, his coat with gold braid, his waistcoat
of cloth of silver, his gold snuff-box, his valuable watch,
everything was taken from its place, and he arrayed himself like a
maiden about to appear before her first lover. At the appointed hour,
drunk with love and boiling over with hope, Sarrasine, his nose
buried in his cloak, hurried to the rendezvous appointed by the old
woman. She was waiting.

"'You are very late,' she said. 'Come.'

"She led the Frenchman through several narrow streets and stopped in
front of a palace of attractive appearance. She knocked; the door
opened. She led Sarrasine through a labyrinth of stairways, galleries,
and apartments which were lighted only by uncertain gleams of
moonlight, and soon reached a door through the cracks of which stole a
bright light, and from which came the joyous sound of several voices.
Sarrasine was suddenly blinded when, at a word from the old woman, he
was admitted to that mysterious apartment and found himself in a salon
as brilliantly lighted as it was sumptuously furnished; in the centre
stood a bountifully supplied table, laden with inviolable bottles,
with laughing decanters whose red facets sparkled merrily. He
recognized the singers from the theatre, male and female, mingled with
charming women, all ready to begin an artists' spree and waiting only
for him. Sarrasine restrained a feeling of displeasure and put a good
face on the matter. He had hoped for a dimly lighted chamber, his
mistress leaning over a brazier, a jealous rival within two steps,
death and love, confidences exchanged in low tones, heart to heart,
hazardous kisses, and faces so near together that La Zambinella's hair
would have touched caressingly his desire-laden brow, burning with
happiness.

"'_Vive la folie!_' he cried. '_Signori e belle donne_, you will
allow me to postpone my revenge and bear witness to my gratitude for
the welcome you offer a poor sculptor.'

"After receiving congratulations not lacking in warmth from most of
those present, whom he knew by sight, he tried to approach the couch
on which La Zambinella was nonchalantly reclining. Ah! how his heart
beat when he spied a tiny foot in one of those slippers which--if you
will allow me to say so, madame--formerly imparted to a woman's feet
such a coquettish, voluptuous look that I cannot conceive how men
could resist them. Tightly fitting white stockings with green clocks,
short skirts, and the pointed, high-heeled slippers of Louis XV.'s
time contributed somewhat, I fancy, to the demoralization of Europe
and the clergy."

"Somewhat!" exclaimed the marchioness. "Have you read nothing, pray?"

"La Zambinella," I continued, smiling, "had boldly crossed her legs,
and as she prattled swung the upper one, a duchess' attitude very well
suited to her capricious type of beauty, overflowing with a certain
attractive suppleness. She had laid aside her stage costume, and wore
a waist which outlined a slender figure, displayed to the best
advantage by a _panier_ and a satin dress embroidered with blue
flowers. Her breast, whose treasures were concealed by a coquettish
arrangement of lace, was of a gleaming white. Her hair was dressed
almost like Madame du Barry's; her face, although overshadowed by a
large cap, seemed only the daintier therefor, and the powder was very
becoming to her. She smiled graciously at the sculptor. Sarrasine,
disgusted beyond measure at finding himself unable to speak to her
without witnesses, courteously seated himself beside her, and
discoursed of music, extolling her prodigious talent; but his voice
trembled with love and fear and hope.

"'What do you fear?' queried Vitagliani, the most celebrated singer
in the troupe. 'Go on, you have no rival here to fear.'

"After he had said this the tenor smiled silently. The lips of all the
guests repeated that smile, in which there was a lurking expression of
malice likely to escape a lover. The publicity of his love was like a
sudden dagger-thrust in Sarrasine's heart. Although possessed of a
certain strength of character, and although nothing that might happen
could subdue the violence of his passion, it had not before occurred
to him that La Zambinella was almost a courtesan, and that he could
not hope to enjoy at one and the same time the pure delights which
would make a maiden's love so sweet, and the passionate transports
with which one must purchase the perilous favors of an actress. He
reflected and resigned himself to his fate. The supper was served.
Sarrasine and La Zambinella seated themselves side by side without
ceremony. During the first half of the feast the artists exercised
some restraint, and the sculptor was able to converse with the singer.
He found that she was very bright and quick-witted; but she was
amazingly ignorant and seemed weak and superstitious. The delicacy of
her organs was reproduced in her understanding. When Vitagliani opened
the first bottle of champagne, Sarrasine read in his neighbor's eyes a
shrinking dread of the report caused by the release of the gas. The
involuntary shudder of that thoroughly feminine temperament was
interpreted by the amorous artist as indicating extreme delicacy of
feeling. This weakness delighted the Frenchman. There is so much of
the element of protection in a man's love!

"'You may make use of my power as a shield!'

"Is not that sentence written at the root of all declarations of love?
Sarrasine, who was too passionately in love to make fine speeches to
the fair Italian, was, like all lovers, grave, jovial, meditative, by
turns. Although he seemed to listen to the guests, he did not hear a
word that they said, he was so wrapped up in the pleasure of sitting
by her side, of touching her hand, of waiting on her. CHAPTER VI.

APPENDIX: THE CHRISTIANITY OF THE JEWISH CHRISTIANS

1. Original Christianity was in appearance Christian Judaism, the
creation of a universal religion on Old Testament soil. It retained
therefore, so far as it was not hellenised, which never altogether
took place, its original Jewish features. The God of Abraham, Isaac
and Jacob was regarded as the Father of Jesus Christ, the Old Testament
was the authoritative source of revelation, and the hopes of
the future were based on the Jewish ones. The heritage which
Christianity took over from Judaism, shews itself on Gentile Christian
soil, in fainter or distincter form, in proportion as the philosophic
mode of thought already prevails, or recedes into the background.[403]
To describe the appearance of the Jewish, Old Testament, heritage
in the Christian faith, so far as it is a religious one, by the name
Jewish Christianity, beginning at a certain point quite arbitrarily
chosen, and changeable at will, must therefore necessarily lead to
error, and it has done so to a very great extent. For this
designation makes it appear as though the Jewish element in the
Christian religion were something accidental, while it
is rather the case that all Christianity, in so far as something alien
is not foisted into it, appears as the religion of Israel perfected
and spiritualised. We are therefore not justified in speaking of
Jewish Christianity, where a Christian community, even one of
Gentile birth, calls itself the true Israel, the people of the
twelve tribes, the posterity of Abraham; for this transfer is based
on the original claim of Christianity and can only be forbidden by
a view that is alien to it.

Just as little may we designate Jewish Christian the mighty and
realistic hopes of the future which were gradually repressed in the
second and third centuries.

They may be described as Jewish, or as Christian; but the designation
Jewish Christian must be rejected; for it gives a wrong impression
as to the historic right of these hopes in Christianity. The eschatological
ideas of Papias were not Jewish Christian, but Christian; while, on
the other hand, the eschatological speculations of Origen
were not Gentile Christian, but essentially Greek. Those Christians
who saw in Jesus the man chosen by God and endowed with the Spirit,
thought about the Redeemer not in a Jewish Christian, but in a Christian
manner.

Those of Asia Minor who held strictly to the 14th of Nisan as the
term of the Easter festival, were not influenced by Jewish Christian,
but by Christian or Old Testament, considerations. The author of the
"Teaching of the Apostles," who has transferred the rights of the
Old Testament priests with respect to the first fruits, to the
Christian prophets, shews himself by such transference not as a
Jewish Christian, but as a Christian.

There is no boundary here; for Christianity took possession of
the whole of Judaism as religion, and it is therefore a most arbitrary
view of history which looks upon the Christian appropriation of the Old
Testament religion, after any point, as no longer Christian, but
only Jewish Christian.

Wherever the universalism of Christianity is not violated in
favour of the Jewish nation, we have to recognise every appropriation
of the Old Testament as Christian.

Hence this proceeding could be spontaneously undertaken in
Christianity, as was in fact done.

2. But the Jewish religion is a national religion, and Christianity burst
the bonds of nationality, though not for all who recognised Jesus as
Messiah. This gives the point at which the introduction of the term
"Jewish Christianity" is appropriate.[404] It should be applied
exclusively to those Christians who really maintained in their whole
extent, or in some measure, even if it were to a minimum degree,
the national and political forms of Judaism and the observance of
the Mosaic law in its literal sense, as essential to Christianity,
at least to the Christianity of born Jews, or who, though rejecting
these forms, nevertheless assumed a prerogative of the Jewish people
even in Christianity (Clem., Homil.

"'Are you ill?' Sarrasine asked her. 'Would you prefer to go home?'

"'I am not strong enough to stand all this dissipation,' she replied.
'I have to be very careful; but I feel so happy with you! Except for
you, I should not have remained to this supper; a night like this
takes away all my freshness.'

"'You are so delicate!' rejoined Sarrasine, gazing in rapture at the
charming creature's dainty features.

"'Dissipation ruins my voice.'

"'Now that we are alone,' cried the artist, 'and that you no longer
have reason to fear the effervescence of my passion, tell me that you
love me.'

"'Why?' said she; 'for what good purpose? You think me pretty. But
you are a Frenchman, and your fancy will pass away. Ah! you would not
love me as I should like to be loved.'

"'How?'

"'Purely, with no mingling of vulgar passion. I abhor men even more,
perhaps than I hate women. I need to take refuge in friendship. The
world is a desert to me. I am an accursed creature, doomed to
understand happiness, to feel it, to desire it, and like many, many
others, compelled to see it always fly from me. Remember, signor, that
I have not deceived you. I forbid you to love me. I can be a devoted
friend to you, for I admire your strength of will and your character.
I need a brother, a protector. Be both of these to me, but nothing
more.'

"'And not love you!' cried Sarrasine; 'but you are my life, my
happiness, dear angel!'

"'If I should say a word, you would spurn me with horror.'

"'Coquette! nothing can frighten me. Tell me that you will cost me my
whole future, that I shall die two months hence, that I shall be
damned for having kissed you but once----'

"And he kissed her, despite La Zambinella's efforts to avoid that
passionate caress.

"'Tell me that you are a demon, that I must give you my fortune, my
name, all my renown! Would you have me cease to be a sculptor? Speak.'

"'Suppose I were not a woman?' queried La Zambinella, timidly, in a
sweet, silvery voice.

"'A merry jest!' cried Sarrasine. 'Think you that you can deceive an
artist's eye? Have I not, for ten days past, admired, examined,
devoured, thy perfections? None but a woman can have this soft and
beautifully rounded arm, these graceful outlines. Ah! you seek
compliments!'

"She smiled sadly, and murmured:

"'Fatal beauty!'

"She raised her eyes to the sky. At that moment, there was in her eyes
an indefinable expression of horror, so startling, so intense, that
Sarrasine shuddered.

"'Signor Frenchman,' she continued, 'forget forever a moment's
madness. I esteem you, but as for love, do not ask me for that; that
sentiment is suffocated in my heart. I have no heart!' she cried,
weeping bitterly. 'The stage on which you saw me, the applause, the
music, the renown to which I am condemned--those are my life; I have
no other. A few hours hence you will no longer look upon me with the
same eyes, the woman you love will be dead.'

"The sculptor did not reply. He was seized with a dull rage which
contracted his heart. He could do nothing but gaze at that
extraordinary woman, with inflamed, burning eyes. That feeble voice,
La Zambinella's attitude, manners, and gestures, instinct with
dejection, melancholy, and discouragement, reawakened in his soul all
the treasures of passion. Each word was a spur. At that moment, they
arrived at Frascati. When the artist held out his arms to help his
mistress to alight, he felt that she trembled from head to foot.

"'What is the matter? You would kill me,' he cried, seeing that she
turned pale, 'if you should suffer the slightest pain of which I am,
even innocently, the cause.'

"'A snake!' she said, pointing to a reptile which was gliding along
the edge of a ditch. 'I am afraid of the disgusting creatures.'

"Sarrasine crushed the snake's head with a blow of his foot.

Similar ideas about Christ are found in Gnostic Jewish Christians);
one must think about Christ as about God (I. 1).

Ignatius writes (Eph. 7-2):
[Greek: Eis, iatros estin sarkikos te kai pneumatikos, gennêtos kai
agennêtos, en sarki genomenos theos, en thanatôi zôê alêthinê, kai
ek Marias kai ek theou, prôton pathaetos kai tote apathês Iêsous
Christos ho kurios hêmôn].

As the human predicates stand here first, it might appear as though,
according to Ignatius, the man Jesus first became God ([Greek:
ho theos hêmôn], Cf. Eph. inscr.: 18. 2). In point of fact, he regards
Jesus as Son of God only by his birth from the Spirit; but on
the other hand, Jesus is [Greek: aph' henos patros proelthôn] (Magn.
7.
2), is [Greek: lógos theoû] (Magn. 8. 2,) and when Ignatius so often
emphasises the truth of Jesus' history against Docetism (Trall.
9. for example), we must assume that he shares the thesis with the
Gnostics that Jesus is by nature a spiritual being. But it is well
worthy of notice that Ignatius, as distinguished from Barnabas
and Clement, really gives the central place to the historical
Jesus Christ, the Son of God and the Son of Mary, and his work. The
like is found only in Irenæus.
The pre-existence of Christ is presupposed by Polycarp. (Ep 7. 1);
but, like Paul, he strongly emphasises a real exaltation of Christ
(2. 1).

The author of Præd. Petri calls Christ the [Greek: logos] (Clem.
Strom.
I. 29, 182). As Ignatius calls him this also, as the same designation
is found in the Gospel, Epistles, and Apocalypse of John (the latter
a Christian adaptation of a Jewish writing), in the Act. Joh. (see
Zahn, Acta Joh. p. 220), finally, as Celsus (II. 31) says quite
generally, "The Christians maintain that the Son of God is at
the same time his incarnate Word", we plainly perceive that this
designation for Christ was not first started by professional philosophers
(see the Apologists, for example, Tatian, Orat. 5, and Melito
Apolog. fragm. in the Chron.
pasch. p. 483, ed.

Dindorf: [Greek: Christos ôn theou logos pro aiônôn].
We do not find in the Johannine writings such a Logos speculation as
in the Apologists, but the current expression is taken up in order
to shew that it has its truth in the appearing of Jesus Christ. The
ideas about the existence of a Divine Logos were very widely spread;
they were driven out of philosophy into wide circles.

The author of the Alterc.
Jas. et Papisci conceived the phrase in Gen I. 1, [Greek: en archê],
as equivalent to [Greek: en huiôi (Christôi)] Jerome.

Quæst. hebr. in Gen.
p. 3; see Tatian Orat. 5: [Greek: theos ên en archêi tên de
archên logou dunamin pareilêphamen]. Ignatius (Eph. 3) also called
Christ [Greek: hê
gnómê tou patros] (Eph. 17: [Greek: hê gnôsis tou theou]); that is a
more fitting expression than [Greek: logos].
At nightfall, as he was going out to
inquire of somebody where his mistress lived, he met one of his
fellow-artists at the door.

"'My dear fellow,' he said, I am sent by our ambassador to invite you
to come to the embassy this evening. He gives a magnificent concert,
and when I tell you that La Zambinella will be there--'

"'Zambinella!' cried Sarrasine, thrown into delirium by that name; 'I
am mad with love of her.'

"'You are like everybody else,' replied his comrade.

"'But if you are friends of mine, you and Vien and Lauterbourg and
Allegrain, you will lend me your assistance for a _coup de main_,
after the entertainment, will you not?' asked Sarrasine.

"'There's no cardinal to be killed? no--?'

"'No, no!' said Sarrasine, 'I ask nothing of you that men of honor
may not do.'

"In a few moments the sculptor laid all his plans to assure the
success of his enterprise. He was one of the last to arrive at the
ambassador's, but he went thither in a traveling carriage drawn by
four stout horses and driven by one of the most skilful _vetturini_
in Rome. The ambassador's palace was full of people; not without
difficulty did the sculptor, whom nobody knew, make his way to the
salon where La Zambinella was singing at that moment.

"'It must be in deference to all the cardinals, bishops, and _abbes_
who are here,' said Sarrasine, 'that _she_ is dressed as a man, that
_she_ has curly hair which _she_ wears in a bag, and that _she_ has a
sword at her side?'

"'She! what she?' rejoined the old nobleman whom Sarrasine addressed.

"'La Zambinella.'

"'La Zambinella!' echoed the Roman prince. 'Are you jesting? Whence
have you come? Did a woman ever appear in a Roman theatre? And do you
not know what sort of creatures play female parts within the domains
of the Pope? It was I, monsieur, who endowed Zambinella with his
voice. I paid all the knave's expenses, even his teacher in singing.
And he has so little gratitude for the service I have done him that he
has never been willing to step inside my house. And yet, if he makes
his fortune, he will owe it all to me.'

"Prince Chigi might have talked on forever, Sarrasine did not listen
to him. A ghastly truth had found its way into his mind. He was
stricken as if by a thunderbolt. He stood like a statue, his eyes
fastened on the singer. His flaming glance exerted a sort of magnetic
influence on Zambinella, for he turned his eyes at last in Sarrasine's
direction, and his divine voice faltered. He trembled! An involuntary
murmur escaped the audience, which he held fast as if fastened to his
lips; and that completely disconcerted him; he stopped in the middle
of the aria he was singing and sat down. Cardinal Cicognara, who had
watched from the corner of his eye the direction of his _protege's_
glance, saw the Frenchman; he leaned toward one of his ecclesiastical
aides-de-camp, and apparently asked the sculptor's name. When he had
obtained the reply he desired he scrutinized the artist with great
attention and gave orders to an _abbe_, who instantly disappeared.
Meanwhile Zambinella, having recovered his self-possession, resumed
the aria he had so capriciously broken off; but he sang badly, and
refused, despite all the persistent appeals showered upon him, to sing
anything else. It was the first time he had exhibited that humorsome
tyranny, which, at a later date, contributed no less to his celebrity
than his talent and his vast fortune, which was said to be due to his
beauty as much as to his voice.

"'It's a woman,' said Sarrasine, thinking that no one could overhear
him. 'There's some secret intrigue beneath all this. Cardinal
Cicognara is hoodwinking the Pope and the whole city of Rome!'

"The sculptor at once left the salon, assembled his friends, and lay
in wait in the courtyard of the palace. When Zambinella was assured of
Sarrasine's departure he seemed to recover his tranquillity in some
measure. About midnight after wandering through the salons like a man
looking for an enemy, the _musico_ left the party. As he passed
through the palace gate he was seized by men who deftly gagged him
with a handkerchief and placed him in the carriage hired by Sarrasine.
Frozen with terror, Zambinella lay back in a corner, not daring to
move a muscle. He saw before him the terrible face of the artist, who
maintained a deathlike silence. The journey was a short one.
Zambinella, kidnaped by Sarrasine, soon found himself in a dark, bare
studio. He sat, half dead, upon a chair, hardly daring to glance at a
statue of a woman, in which he recognized his own features. Unfortunately,
we cannot at present give certain, and still less detailed answers
to these questions. But, as Neoplatonism originated in Alexandria,
as Oriental cults confronted every one there, as the Jewish
philosophy was prominent in the literary market of Alexandria, and
that was the very place where scientific Christianity had its
headquarters, there can, generally speaking, be no doubt that the
earliest Neoplatonists had some acquaintance with Judaism and
Christianity.

In addition to that, we have the certain fact that the earliest
Neoplatonists had discussions with (Roman) Gnostics (see Carl
Schmidt, Gnostische Schriften in koptischer Sprache, pp. 603-665),
and that Porphyry entered into elaborate controversy with Christianity.

'Laugh! laugh! You dared to make sport of a
man's passion--you?'

"'Oh, mercy!' cried Zambinella.

"'I ought to kill you!' shouted Sarrasine, drawing his sword in an
outburst of rage. 'But,' he continued, with cold disdain, 'if I
searched your whole being with this blade, should I find there any
sentiment to blot out, anything with which to satisfy my thirst for
vengeance? You are nothing! If you were a man or a woman, I would kill
you, but--'

"Sarrasine made a gesture of disgust, and turned his face away;
thereupon he noticed the statue.

"'And that is a delusion!' he cried.

"Then, turning to Zambinella once more, he continued:

"'A woman's heart was to me a place of refuge, a fatherland. Have you
sisters who resemble you? No. Then die! But no, you shall live. To
leave you your life is to doom you to a fate worse than death. I
regret neither my blood nor my life, but my future and the fortune of
my heart. Your weak hand has overturned my happiness. What hope can I
extort from you in place of all those you have destroyed? You have
brought me down to your level. _To love, to be loved!_ are henceforth
meaningless words to me, as to you. I shall never cease to think of
that imaginary woman when I see a real woman.'

"He pointed to the statue with a gesture of despair.

"'I shall always have in my memory a divine harpy who will bury her
talons in all my manly sentiments, and who will stamp all other women
with a seal of imperfection. Monster! you, who can give life to
nothing, have swept all women off the face of the earth.'

"Sarrasine seated himself in front of the terrified singer. Two great
tears came from his dry eyes, rolled down his swarthy cheeks, and fell
to the floor--two tears of rage, two scalding, burning tears.

"'An end of love! I am dead to all pleasure, to all human emotions!'

"As he spoke, he seized a hammer and hurled it at the statue with such
excessive force that he missed it. He thought that he had destroyed
that monument of his madness, and thereupon he drew his sword again,
and raised it to kill the singer. Zambinella uttered shriek after
shriek. Three men burst into the studio at that moment, and the
sculptor fell, pieced by three daggers.

The business of government, he repeated, is to govern; but this
view makes it its business to refrain from governing.

He fought most fiercely against the conclusions of political economy,
"the dismal science," which, he said, affirmed that men were guided
exclusively by their stomachs.

He protested, too, against the Utilitarians, followers of Bentham
and Mill, with their "greatest happiness principle," which reduced
virtue to a profit-and-loss account.

Carlyle took issue with modern liberalism; he ridiculed the
self-gratulation of the time, all the talk about progress of the
species, unexampled prosperity, etc.

But he was reactionary without being conservative. He had studied the
French Revolution, and he saw the fateful, irresistible approach
of democracy.
He had no faith in government "by counting noses," and he hated talking
parliaments; but neither did he put trust in an aristocracy
that spent its time in "preserving the game."

What he wanted was a great individual ruler, a real king or hero;
and this doctrine he set forth afterward most fully in _Hero Worship_,
1841, and {286} illustrated in his lives of representative heroes,
such as his _Cromwell's Letters and Speeches_, 1845, and his great
_History of Frederick the Great_, 1858-1865.

Cromwell and Frederick were well enough; but as Carlyle grew older,
his admiration for mere force grew, and his latest hero was none other
than that infamous Dr.

Francia, the South American dictator, whose career of bloody and
crafty crime horrified the civilized world.

Wives are betrayed.
Mistresses are cast aside, abandoned. Talk of friendship! Is there
such a thing! I would turn pious to-morrow if I did not know that I
can remain like the inaccessible summit of a cliff amid the tempests
of life. If the future of the Christian is an illusion too, at all
events it is not destroyed until after death. Leave me to myself."

"Ah!" said I, "you know how to punish."

"Am I in the wrong?"

"Yes," I replied, with a sort of desperate courage. "By finishing this
story, which is well known in Italy, I can give you an excellent idea
of the progress made by the civilization of the present day. What has
been said in the text does not claim to be certain, but only
probable.

The most important, and at the same time the most certain point, is
that Jesus made the definitive fate of the individual depend on
faith, humility and love. There are no passages in the Gospel which
conflict with the impression that Jesus reserved day and hour to
God, and wrought in faith and patience as long as for him it was
day.]

[Footnote 70: He did not impose on every one, or desire from every
one even the outward following of himself: see Mark V. 18-19.

Carigliano, Marechal, Duc de
  At the Sign of the Cat and Racket
  Father Goriot

Lanty, Comte de
  The Member for Arcis

Lanty, Comtesse de
  The Member for Arcis

Lanty, Marianina de
  The Member for Arcis

Lanty, Filippo de
  The Member for Arcis

Rochefide, Marquise de
  Beatrix
  The Secrets of a Princess
  A Daughter of Eve
  A Prince of Bohemia

Sarrasine, Ernest-Jean
  The Member for Arcis

Vien, Joseph-Marie
  The Member for Arcis

Zambinella
  The Member for Arcis