The unknown was very tall, very straight, most well formed. But his face
was extraordinarily ugly. His flat, wide nose, thick lips, and small
yellow eyes were set off by an upstanding mop of hair. His expression was
of extraordinary fierceness. He walked with a free and independent stride,
and carried a rifle.

"He is not of this country. He is from the west coast, or perhaps Nubia or
the Sudan," was Kingozi's conclusion.

"Many of these people are _shenzis_," Mali-ya-bwana pursued his own
thought.

"That is true," Kingozi acknowledged. "If this is a sportsman, from what
part did he hail to have got together this lot! We will see."

As the swinging hammock came opposite his concealment, Kingozi stepped
forward.

Every one in sight looked in his direction, but none showed any
astonishment at this apparition out of the wilderness. The sophisticated
African has ceased to be surprised at anything a white man may do. If he
can make fire by rubbing a tiny stick _once_, why should he not do
anything under heaven he wants to? Nothing could be more tender than his
manner toward her. He went for her when we were in the study, and the last
half hour of my stay she sat with us. She is one of five sisters
who are all married to eminent men.

It occurs to me to note, as among my last recollections of our talk,
that I spoke of Spurgeon, whom I had heard in London a short time
before, and was very favorably impressed with.

I could not but commend his simple, strong Saxon speech, the charm of his
rich full voice, and above all the earnest aim which I thought was
manifest in all he uttered. Mr. Kingsley said he was glad to hear this,
for he had been told of occasional irreverences of Spurgeon's, and of
his giving way now and then to a disposition to make a joke of things.
Not that he objected altogether to humor in sermons: he had his own temptations
in this way. "One must either weep at the follies of men or laugh at them,"
he added. I told him Mr. Maurice had spoken to me of Mr.
Spurgeon as no doubt an important influence for good in the land, and he
said this was on the whole his own opinion.

He told me, however, of teaching of quite another character, addressed to
people of cultivation mainly, and to him peculiarly acceptable. His reference
was to Robertson's _Sermons_: he showed me the volume--the first
series--just then published. The mention of this book perhaps led to a
reference by Mr.

Kingsley to the Unitarians of New England, of whom he spoke very kindly,
adding, in effect, that their error was but a natural rebound from
Calvinism, that dreary perversion of God's boundless love.

But I had now to say good-bye to these new friends, who had come to seem
old friends, so full and cordial had been their hospitality, and so
much had we found to talk of in the quickly-passing hours of my
visit.

Mr. Kingsley drove me three miles on my way to Winchfield. His talk with
me was interspersed with cheery and friendly words to his horse, with whom
he seemed to be on very intimate terms. "Come and see us again," he said
as we parted: "the second visit, you know, is always the best."
ELLIS YARNALL.

OUR MONTHLY GOSSIP.

A WOMAN'S OPINION OF PARIS AND THE PARISIANS.

I have now lived in Paris two consecutive years, and during this time the
question has often been put to me, "How do you like Paris and the
Parisians?" That question I will now try to answer.

Like Paris? Of course I do--heartily and truly. Cold indeed must the heart
be that does not find space in its depths for a true affection for
the fair queen-city which welcomes all strangers so kindly and
hospitably, which has a smile for all, and which at the wide banquet
of her bounty sets forth food for every phase of mental hunger. Do
you wish to study? Her libraries lie open to your research--her
monuments, her galleries, her public institutions are given to your
inspection, freely and without price. Do you seek amusement? Paris,
in that respect, is like the rollicking heroine of _Barbe-Bleu:_
there is none like Boulotte, "quand il s'agit de batifoler."Given nerve enough, and barring
accidents--which might happen in a London flat--a man is in no danger. If
he opens fire too soon, indeed, he is likely to empty his weapon without
inflicting a stopping wound, but if he will wait until the beast is within
twenty yards or so, the affair is certain. For this reason: just before a
rhinoceros closes, he drops his head low in order to bring his long horn
into action. If the hunter fires then, over the horn, he will strike the
beast's backbone. The shot can hardly be missed, for the range is very
close and the outstanding flanges of the vertebrae make a large mark. The
formidable animal goes down like a stone. In country open enough to
preclude the deadly close-at-hand surprise rush, where one has no chance
to use his weapon at all, the rhinoceros is not dangerous to one who knows
his business.

But in this case Kingozi was nearer a hundred and twenty than twenty yards
from the animal. The mark to be hit was now very small; and it was moving.
In addition the heavy double rifle, while accurate enough at that range,
was not, owing to its weight and terrific recoil, as certain as a lighter
rifle. These things Kingozi knew perfectly. The muscles under his beard
tightened; his gray eyes widened into a glare like that of Simba in sight
of game.

Just before the rhinoceros dropped his head for the toss, the Nubian
stepped directly into the line of fire.

"_Lala!_--lie down!" Kingozi shouted.

Somehow the whip-snap of authority in his voice reached the Nubian's
consciousness. He dropped flat, and almost instantly the white man fired.

At the roar of the great gun the rhinoceros collapsed in mid career, going
down, as an animal always does under a successful spine shot, completely,
without a struggle or even a quiver.

"That was well shot, master," said Mali-ya-bwana.

Kingozi reloaded the rifle and started forward. At the same time the
occupant of the hammock finally emerged from the tangle and came erect.


CHAPTER V


THE ENCOUNTER

Kingozi saw a tall figure without a coat, dressed in brown shirt, riding
breeches, and puttees. The Nubian had retrieved a spilled sun helmet even
before the stranger had scrambled erect, so the head and face were
invisible. Kingozi's countenance did not change, but a faint contempt
appeared in his eyes. The first impression conveyed by the numbers of the
tin boxes and their bearers and escort had been deepened. Why? Patrick may
err on the score of politeness from ignorance, but Alphonse is a beast only
because he chooses to be bestial. All the traditions of his race run
counter to his conduct when he forgets the supreme suavity that should
characterize a Gaul.

And yet it is possible for an American--or rather an Anglo-Saxon--to live
for years in the midst of this brilliant, polished, fascinating
people, and never to feel specially interested in them, either
individually or nationally.

What is the reason?

Why is it that, loving Paris like a second home, we do not take the Parisians
to our hearts as brothers and sisters, or at least as dear first cousins?
The causes are many and various. In the first place, the Parisians
do not like us.He approached her, laughing.

It was evidently an angry woman, to judge by her gestures and the
deprecating attitude of the Nubian. Kingozi surmised that she probably did
not fancy being dumped down incontinently before an angry rhinoceros.
After a moment, however, her attitude lost its rigidity, she gestured
toward the dead monster, evidently commending the savage. He shook his
head and motioned in Kingozi's direction. The woman turned, showing an
astonished face.

Kingozi was now close up. He saw before him a personality. Physically she
was beautiful or not, according as one accepted conventional standards.
The dress she wore revealed fully the fact that she had a tall, well-knit
figure of long, full curves; a thoroughly feminine figure in conformation,
and yet one that looked competent to transcend the usual feminine
incompetencies. So far she measured to a high but customary standard. But
her face was as exotic as an orchid. It was long, narrow, and pale with
three accents to redeem it from what that ordinarily implies--lips of a
brilliant carmine, eyes of a deep sea-green, and eyebrows high, arched,
clean cut, narrow as though drawn by a camel's-hair brush. Indeed, in
civilization no one would have believed them to have been otherwise
produced. In spite of the awkward sun helmet she carried her head
imperiously.

I asked.

"Fifteen years--two years as curate, and then the living becoming
vacant, it was given to him."

She told me a funeral was to take place directly--that of a poor woman
who had been a great sufferer. "Ah, here it comes," she said.

There was the bier borne on men's shoulders and a little company
of mourners, the peasantry of the neighborhood, the men wearing
smock-frocks.

They were awaiting the clergyman at the lichgate. Mr.
Kingsley appeared at the moment in his surplice, and the procession entered
the churchyard, he saying as he walked in front the solemn sentences
with which the service begins. It was the scene which I had witnessed in
another part of Hampshire some years before, when the author of _The
Christian Year_ was the officiating clergyman. Mrs.

Kingsley and I joined the procession and entered the church. It was a
small, oddly-arranged interior--brick pavements, high-backed pews,
the clerk's desk adjoining the reading-desk, but a little lower.

Mr.
Kingsley read the service in a measured tone, which enabled him to overcome
the defect in his utterance noticeable in conversation. At the grave the
rest of the office was said, and here the grief of the poor mourners
overcame them. The family group consisted of the husband of the
deceased, a grown-up daughter and a son, a boy of fifteen. All were much
moved, but the boy the most.

He cried bitterly--a long wail, as if he could not be comforted. Mr. Kingsley
tried to console him, putting his arm over his shoulders.

He said words of sympathy to the others also. They went their way over
the heath to their desolate home. Mr. and Mrs. Kingsley spoke of
the life of toil which had thus ended, and of the patience with
which long-continued bodily pain had been borne.

It was clear that the popular author was first of all a parish priest.

We now went into his study, where he lighted a long pipe, and we then
returned to a part of the lawn which he called his quarter-deck, and
where we walked up and down for near an hour.

What an English summer evening it was!--dewy and still.

Now and then a slight breeze stirred in the leaves and brought with it
wafts of delicate odors from the flowers somewhere hidden in the
deep shadows, though as yet it was not night and the sweet twilight
lay about us like a charm.

He asked if I knew Maurice. I did slightly--had breakfasted with him six
weeks before, and had seen enough of him to understand the strong
personal influence he exerted.

"I owe all that I am to Maurice," said Kingsley, "I aim only to teach to
others what I get from him. Whatever facility of expression I
have is God's gift, but the views I endeavor to enforce are those which I
learn from Maurice. I live to interpret him to the people of
England."

A talk about the influence of the Oxford writers came next: on this
subject I knew we should not agree, though of course it was interesting
to me to hear Mr.

Kingsley's opinion. He spoke with some asperity of one or two of the
leaders, though his chief objection was to certain young men who
had put themselves forward as champions of the movement.

Of Mr. Keble he spoke very kindly. He said he had at one time been much
under the influence of these writings.

I mentioned Alexander Knox as being perhaps the forerunner of the Oxford
men.

"Ah," he said, "I owe my knowledge of that good man to Mrs.

Kingsley:

you must talk with her about him."

We joined the party in the drawing-room, and there was some further
conversation on this subject.

At about ten o'clock the bell was rung, the servants came in, prayers
were said, and the ladies (Mrs.

Kingsley and their daughter's governess) bid us good-night. Then to Mr.
Kingsley's study, where the rest of the evening was spent--from half-past
ten to half-past twelve--the pipe went on, and the talk--a continuous
flow.

"Give them thirty apiece," she ordered the Nubian.

"That is too many," interposed Kingozi. "Six is a great plenty for such
people. It is their nature to run away."

"Thirty," she repeated to the Nubian, without a glance in the white man's
direction.

The huge negro produced the rhinoceros-hide whip, and went to his task. To
lay thirty lashes on sixteen backs and to do justice to the occasion is a
great task. The Nubian's face streamed sweat when he had finished. The
bearers, who had taken the punishment in silence, arose, saluted, and
begun to skylark among themselves, which was their way of working off
emotion.

"_Askaris!_" summoned the woman.

They came trotting.

"Lay down your guns! Lie down!"

A mild wonder appeared in Kingozi's gray eyes.

"Do you _kiboko_ your _askaris?_" he asked.

She jerked her head in his direction.

"Do you presume to question my actions?"

"By no means; I am interested in methods."

She paid him no more attention. Kingozi waited patiently until this second
bout of punishment was over. The _askaris_ lay quietly face down until
their mistress gave the word, then leaped to their feet, saluted smartly,
seized their guns, and marched jauntily to their appointed positions. The
woman watched them for a moment, and turned back to Kingozi.

Her mood had completely changed. The orgy of punishment had cleared away
the nervous effects of the fright she had undergone.

"So; that is done," she said. "I have travelled much in Africa. I what you
call know my way about. See how my men fall into line. It will be so at
camp. _Presto!_ Quick! The tents will be up, the fires made."

Her lips smiled at him, but her sea-green eyes remained steady and
inscrutable.

"They seem smart enough," acknowledged Kingozi without interest. "Have you
ever tried them out?"

"Tried them out?" she repeated. "I do not understand."

"You never know what hold you really have until you get in a tight place."

"And if I get in a 'tight place,'" she rejoined haughtily, "I shall get
out again--without help from negroes--or anybody."

"Quite so," conceded Kingozi equably. His attitude and the tone of his
voice were indifferent, but the merest flicker of the tail of his eye
touched the dead rhino. His expression remained quite bland. She saw this.
The pallor of her cheek did not warm, but her strangely expressive eyes
changed.

"_Bandika!_" she cried sharply. The men began to take up their loads.

"I will wish you a good afternoon," observed Kingozi as though taking his
leave from an afternoon tea. "By the way, do you happen to care for
information about the next water, or do you know all that?" "Thank you, I
know all that," she replied curtly.

The _askaris_ began to shout the order for the advance, "_Nenda! nenda!_"
the men to swing forward. Kingozi stared after them, watching with a
professional eye the way they walked, the make-up of their loads, the
nature of their equipment; marking the lame ones, or the weak ones, or the
ones recently sick. Americans, especially wealthy ones, usually draw around
them a vast circle of French acquaintances, it is true, but these are
mostly sponges and adventurers, well born and well bred, it may be, but
decidedly, to use a vulgar but expressive American idiom, "on the
make."

"Now I wonder if you do, or if some idea
of silly pride makes you say so." He was talking aloud, in English. Mali-
ya-bwana stood attentive, waiting for something he could understand.
Kingozi's eye fell on the dead rhinoceros.

"There is good meat; tell the men they can come out to get what they wish
of it. There will be lions here to-night."

"Yes, _bwana_."

"If she 'knew all that,'" observed Kingozi, "she knew more than I did.
Small chance. Still, if she has information or guides, she may know the
next water. But how? Why?"

He shifted his rifle to the crook of his arm.

He had trained himself not to be annoyed by his people calling on him
when he was writing.

If he was to be their priest, he must see them when it suited them
to come; and he had become able if called off from his writing to
go on again the moment he was alone.

I asked him when he wrote.

He said in the morning almost always: sometimes, when much pushed, he had
written for an hour in the evening, but he always had to correct largely
the next morning work thus done. Daily exercise, riding, hunting,
together with parish work, were necessary to keep him in a condition
for writing: he aimed to keep himself in rude health.
I asked whether _Alton Locke_ had been written in that room. "Yes," he
said--"from four to eight in the mornings; and a young man was staying
with me at the time with whom every day I used to ride, or perhaps hunt,
when my task of writing was done."
A fine copy of St. Augustine attracted my attention on his shelves--five
volumes folio bound in vellum. "Ah," he said, "that _is_ a treasure
I must show you;" and taking down a volume he turned to the fly-leaf,
where were the words "Charles Kingsley from Thomas Carlyle," and
above them "Thomas Carlyle from John Sterling."

One could understand that Carlyle had thus handed on the book,
notwithstanding its sacred associations, knowing that to Kingsley
it would have a threefold value.

My eye caught also a relic of curious interest--a fragment from one
of the vessels of the Spanish Armada.

It lay on the mantelpiece: I could well understand Kingsley's
pleasure in possessing it.

At the breakfast-table the next morning we had much talk in regard
to American writers.

Kingsley admitted Emerson's high merit, but thought him too fragmentary a
writer and thinker to have enduring fame.

He had meant that this should be implied as his opinion in the title he
gave to _Phaethon_--"Loose Thoughts for Loose Thinkers"--a book he had
written in direct opposition to what he understood to be the general
teaching of Emerson. I remarked upon the great beauty of some of Emerson's
later writings and the marvelous clearness of insight which was shown
in his _English Traits_. Kingsley acquiesced in this, but referred to some
American poetry, so called, which Emerson had lately edited, and in his
preface had out-Heroded Herod. Kingsley said the poems were the production
of a coarse, sensual mind. His reference, of course, was to Walt Whitman,
and I had no defence to make. Of Lowell, Mr. Kingsley spoke very highly:
his _Fable for Critics_ was worthy of Rabelais. Mr. Froude, who is
Kingsley's brother-in-law, had first made him acquainted with
Lowell's poetry.

Hawthorne's style he thought was exquisite: there was scarcely any
modern writing equal to it.

Of all his books he preferred the _Blithedale Romance_.

We talked of Mr. Froude, whom Kingsley spoke of as his dearest friend:
he thought Froude sincerely regretted ever having written the _Nemesis
of Faith_. Mr.

Helps, author of _Friends in Council_, he spoke of as his near
neighbor there in Hampshire, and his intimate friend. Mr.
Charles Reade he knew, and I think he said he was also a neighbor:
his _Christie Johnston_ he thought showed high original power. Mrs.
Gaskell we talked of, whose _Life of Charlotte Bronté_ had just then
been published: Mr. Kingsley thought it extremely interesting and
"slightly slanderous." He told me of the author of _Tom Brown's
School-days_, a copy of which, fresh from the publishers, was lying
on his table.

Mr. Hughes is now so well known to us I need only mention that Mr. Kingsley
spoke of him as an old pupil of Arnold's and a spiritual child of
Maurice.

He spoke most warmly of him, and offered me a letter of introduction to him.
I could not avail myself of this, having so little time to remain
in London.

Her red lips
smiled softly, and her eyes were dark and inscrutable.

"I was what you call horrid to-day," she said. "It was not me: it was the
frightenedness from the rhinoceros. I was very much frightened, so I had
the porters beaten. That was horrid, was it not? Do you understand it? I
suppose not. Men have no nerves, like women. They are brave always. I have
not said what I feel. I have heard of you--the most wonderful shot in
Central Africa. I believe it--now."

Kingozi's eyes were lingering on her silk-clad form, the peep of ankles
below her robe. She observed him with slanted eyes, and a little breath of
satisfaction raised her bosom. Abruptly he spoke.

"Aren't you afraid of fever mosquitoes in that rig?" said he.

Her body stirred convulsively, and her finely pencilled eyebrows, with
their perpetual air of surprise, moved with impatience; but her voice
answered him equably:

"My friend, at the close of the hard day I must have my comfort. There can
be no fever here, for there are no people here. When in the fever country
I have my 'rig'"--subtly she shaded the word--"just the same. But I have a
net--a big net--like a tent beneath which I sit. Does that satisfy you?"

She spoke with the obvious painstaking patience that one uses to instruct
a child, but with a veiled irony meant for an older intelligence.

Kingozi laughed.

"I do appear to catechize you, don't I? But I am interested. It is
difficult to realize that a woman alone can understand this kind of
travel."

He had thrown off his guarded abstraction, and smiled across at her as
frankly as a boy. The gravity of his face broke into wrinkles of laughter;
his steady eyes twinkled; his smile showed strong white teeth. In spite of
his bushy beard he looked a boy. The woman stared at him, her cigarette
suspended.

"You have instructed me about my camp; you have instructed me about my
men; you have instructed me about my marching; you have even instructed me
about my clothes." She tallied the counts on her slender fingers. "Now I
must instruct you."

"Guilty, I am afraid," he smiled; "but ready to take punishment."

"Very well." With a sinuous movement she turned on her elbow to face him.
"Listen! It is this: you should not wear that beard."

She fell back, and raised the cigarette to her lips.

For a moment Kingozi stared at her speechless with surprise; but
immediately recovered.

"I shall give to your advice the same respectful consideration you accord
mine," he assured her gravely.

She laughed in genuine amusement.

"Only I have more excuse," continued Kingozi. "A woman--alone--so far
away----"

"You said that before," she interrupted. "In other words, what in--what-
you-call? Oh, yes! what in hell am I doing up here? Is that it?"

She turned on him a wide-eyed stare. Kingozi chuckled.

"That's it. What in--in hell _are_ you doing up here?"

"Listen, my friend. In this world I do what I please--always. And when I
find that which people tell me cannot be done, that I do--at once. My life
is full of those things which could not be done, but which I have done."

"I believe you," said Kingozi, but he said it to himself.

"I have done them at home--where I live. I have done them in the cities
and courts. Whatever the people tell me is impossible--'Oh, it cannot be
done!'--with the uplifted hand and eye--you understand--that I do. Four
years ago I came to Africa, and in Africa I have done what they tell me
women have never done. I have travelled in the Kameroons, in Nyassaland,
in Somaliland, in Abyssinia. Then they tell me--'yes, that is very well,
but you follow a track. It is a dim track; but it is there. You go alone--
yes; but you have us at your back.' And I ask them: 'What then? where is
this place where there is no track?' And they wave their hands, and say
'Over yonder'; so I come!"

She recited all this dramatically, using her hands much in gesticulation,
her eyes flashing. In proportion as she became animated Kingozi withdrew
into his customary stolid calm.

"Quite so," he commented, "spirit of adventure, and all that sort of
thing. Where did you get this lot?"

"What?"

He waved his hand.

"Your men."

She considered him a barely appreciable instant.

"Why--the usual way--from the coast."

"They are strange to me--I do not recognize their tribes," Kingozi replied
blandly. "So you are pushing out into the Unknown. How far do you consider
going?"

"Until it pleases me to stop."

Kingozi produced his pipe.

"If you do not mind?" he requested. He deliberately filled and lighted it.
After a few strong puffs he resumed:

"The country, you say, is unknown to you."

"Of course."

"I imagined you told me this afternoon that you knew of this water. I must
have been mistaken."

He blew a cloud, gazing straight ahead of him in obviously assumed
innocence. She examined him with a narrow, sidelong glance.

I thank the gods for giving me such a brother,[172] who was able
by his moral character to rouse me to vigilance over myself, and
who, at the same time, pleased me by his respect and affection;
that my children have not been stupid nor deformed in body; that I
did not make more proficiency in rhetoric, poetry, and the other
studies, in which I should perhaps have been completely engaged,
if I had seen that I was making progress in them; that I made haste
to place those who brought me up in the station of honor, which
they seemed to desire, without putting them off with hope of my
doing it some time after, because they were then still young; that
I knew Apollonius, Rusticus, Maximus; that I received clear and
frequent impressions about living according to nature, and what
kind of a life that is, so that, so far as depended on the gods,
and their gifts, and help, and inspirations, nothing hindered me
from forthwith living according to nature, tho I still fall short
of it through my own fault, and through not observing the admonitions
of the gods, and I may almost say, their direct instructions; that
my body has held out so long in such a kind of life; that I never
touched either Benedicta or Theodotus; and that, after having fallen
into amatory passions, I was cured; and, tho I was often out of
humor with Rusticus, I never did anything of which I had occasion
to repent; that, tho it was my mother's fate to die young, she spent
the last years of her life with me; that, whenever I wished to help
any man in his need, or on any other occasion, I was never told
that I had not the means of doing it; and that to myself the same
necessity never happened, to receive anything from another; that I
have such a wife, so obedient, and so affectionate, and so simple;
that I had abundance of good masters for my children; and that
remedies have been shown to me by dreams, both others, and against
blood-spitting and giddiness; and that, when I had an inclination
to philosophy, I did not fall into the hands of any sophist.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 158: From the "Meditations."

Translated by George Long.]

[Footnote 159: Annius Verus.]
[Footnote 160: His father's name also was Annius Verus.]
[Footnote 161: His mother was Domitia Calvilla, named also Lucilla.]

[Footnote 162: His mother's grandfather, Catilius Severus, may be
referred to here.]

[Footnote 163: The translator notes that, in the works of Justinus,
is printed a letter from one Diognetus, a Gentile, who wished very
much to know what the religion of the Christians was, and how it
had taught them to believe neither in the gods of the Greeks nor
the superstitions of the Jews.

It has been suggested that this Diognetus may have been the tutor of
Marcus Aurelius.]
[Footnote 164: Junius Rusticus, a Stoic philosopher, whom the author
highly valued.]
[Footnote 165: Apollonius of Chalcis, who came to Rome to be the
author's preceptor.

He was a rigid Stoic.]

[Footnote 166: Sextus of Chæronea, a grandson, or nephew, of
Plutarch.]

[Footnote 167: Alexander, a native of Phrygia, wrote a commentary on
Homer.]

[Footnote 168: Cornelius Fronto, a rhetorician and friend of the
author.]

[Footnote 169: Cinna Catulus, a Stoic.]
[Footnote 170: Claudius Maximus, a Stoic, whom the author's
predecessor, Antoninus Pius, also valued highly.]

[Footnote 171: The reference here made is to the Emperor Antoninus
Pius, who adopted him.]

[Footnote 172: His brother by adoption, L.

Verus, is probably referred to here.]

END OF VOLUME II

.
"I see," she said finally in a meek voice.

But Kingozi knew of what she was thinking. "She is a keen one," he
reflected admiringly. "Caught the weak point in that yarn straight off!"

He arose to his feet, knocking the ashes from his pipe.

"You travel to-morrow?" he asked politely.

"That I have not decided."

"This is a dry country," Kingozi suggested blandly. "Of course you will
not risk a blind push with so many men. You will probably send out scouts
to find the next water."

"That is possible," she replied gravely; but Kingozi thought to catch a
twinkle in her eye.

He raised his voice:

"Boy!"

Mali-ya-bwana glided from one of the small porters' tents.

"_Qua heri_." Kingozi abruptly wished her farewell in Swahili.

"_Qua heri_," she replied without moving.

He turned into the darkness. The tropical stars blazed above him like
candles. Kingozi lapsed into half-forgotten slang.

"Downy bird!" he reflected, which was probably not exactly the impression
the Leopard Woman either intended or thought she had made.


CHAPTER VII


THE WATER-HOLE

A seasoned African traveller in ordinary circumstances sleeps very
soundly, his ear attuned only to certain things. So Kingozi hardly stirred
on his cork mattress, although the lions roared full-voiced satisfaction
when they left the rhinoceros, and the yells of the hyenas rose to a
pandemonium when at last they were permitted to join the feast. Likewise
the nearer familiar noises of men rising to their daily tasks at four
o'clock--the yawning, stretching, cracking of firewood, crackling of fire,
low-voiced chatter--did not disturb him. Yet, so strangely is the human
mind organized, had during the night a soft whisper of padded feet, even
the deep breathing of a beast, sounded within the precincts of the camp,
he would instantly have been broad awake, the rifle that stood loaded
nearby clasped in his hand. Thus he lay quietly through the noises of men
working, but came awake at the sound of men marching. He arose on his
elbow and drew aside the flap of his tent.

At the same instant Cazi Moto stopped outside. The usual formula ensued.

"_Hodie!_" called Cazi Moto.

"_Karibu_," replied Kingozi.

Thus Cazi Moto at once awakened and greeted his master, and Kingozi
acknowledged.

Cazi Moto entered the tent and lighted the tiny lantern, for it was still
an hour and a half until daylight.

"I hear men marching," said Kingozi.

Cazi Moto stopped.

"It is the safari of Bibi-ya-chui." To-day Americans are not popular in
Parisian society.

It is almost impossible that they should be. Our ideas, our social customs,
our notions of right and wrong, are diametrically opposed to all
the social theories of France.

The Leopard Woman was already travelling! What could that mean?
She was certainly taking some chances hiking around thus in the dark.
Perhaps some aged or weak lion had not been permitted a share of that
rhinoceros. And again she was taking chances pushing out blindly with
over a hundred men into the aridity of the desert. Kingozi contemplated
this thought for some time. Then, making up his mind, he arose and began
to dress.

"A great deal, satisfactory and unsatisfactory. But come and sit down, and
I will tell you the whole story."
The whole story took a long time to tell, but it may be summed up
in a few words.

The unfortunate man, who met his death so violently, was identified as
a person who had once been in the employment of Messrs. Robinson & Co.,
ship-owners. The notes found upon him were traced as notes he had received
in payment of a cheque forged in their name.
He finished this speech coincidentally with the drying of his hands. The
impatient Cazi Moto snatched the towel deftly but respectfully and packed
it away. Simba, who had listened with deference until his _bwana_ should
finish this jargon, grinned.

He asked me if it annoyed me for him to walk so much up and down
his study.

The slight impediment in his speech one forgot as one listened to the
flow of his discourse. He talked a volume while I was with him, and what
he said often rose to eloquence.

There was humor too in it, of which I can give no example, for it
was fine and delicate.

But what most impressed me was his perfect simplicity of character.

He talked of his wife with the strongest affection--wished I could
remain longer with them, if only to know her better.

"No, _bwana_. It is a guarded water, and there is no game."

Kingozi considered.

"Very well. I want six men. Before the march we must get meat."

Some time since the flames of the African sunrise had spread to the
zenith, glowing and terrible as a furnace. Although the sky was thus
brilliantly illuminated, the earth, strangely enough, was still gray with
twilight. Objects fifty yards distant were indeterminate. Objects
farther away were lost. The light was daylight, but it was inadequate, as
though charged with mist.

And then suddenly the daylight was clear.

It was like the turning on by a switch. The dim shapes defined clearly,
becoming trees, rocks, distant hills. And almost immediately the rim of
the sun showed above the horizon.

Kingozi had already decided on the best direction in which to hunt.
You do not get champagne and boned turkey and the German, but you
hear sometimes a little music, such as one pays untold gold to hear
at the opera, or a fragment of declamation by some noted elocutionist,
or a new poem fresh from the pen of some celebrated writer. And you
have always conversation; that is to say, the wit and sparkle of the
wittiest and brightest nation on the face of the earth.

In a world that is becoming more and more a Paradise of Fools the charm
of sheer brain and brightness is irresistible. To live in such an
intellectual centre is in itself delightful.

Paris is a veritable _Foire aux Idées_. Its criticism, keen as the sword of
Saladin, overwhelming as the battle-axe of Coeur de Lion, is in
itself a study.Then a shift
of wind brought to them a medley of sound--a great persistent barking of
zebras supplying the main volume. At the same time they saw, over a
distant slight rise, a cloud of dust.

Simba's eyes were gleaming.

"Game! Much game there, _bwana!_" he cried.

"I see," replied Kingozi quietly.

The porters accompanied them to within a few rods of the top of the rise.
There they squatted, and the other two crawled up alone.

