"I can't unsay it," was the answer.

"You can't!" reiterated Yorke, grasping him as a hawk would a pigeon.
"How dare you brave me to my presence? Unsay the lie you have told."

"I am in God's presence, Yorke, as well as in yours," cried the boy,
reverently; "and I will not tell a lie."

"Then take your whacking! I'll teach you what it is to invent
fabrications! I'll put you up for--"

Yorke's tongue and hands stopped. Turning out of the private
cloister-entrance of the deanery, right upon them, had come Dr.
Gardner, one of the prebendaries. He cast a displeased glance at Yorke,
not speaking; and little Channing, touching his trencher to the doctor,
flew to the place where he had left his books, caught them up, and ran
out of the cloisters towards home.


CHAPTER II.


BAD NEWS.

The ground near the cathedral, occupied by the deanery and the
prebendal residences, was called the Boundaries. There were a few other
houses in it, chiefly of a moderate size, inhabited by private
families. Across the open gravel walk, in front of the south cloister
entrance, was the house appropriated to the headmaster; and the
Channings lived in a smaller one, nearly on the confines of the
Boundaries. A portico led into it, and there was a sitting-room on
either side the hall. Charley entered; and was going, full dash, across
the hall to a small room where the boys studied, singing at the top of
his voice, when the old servant of the family, Judith, an antiquated
body, in a snow-white mob-cap and check apron, met him, and seized his
arm.

"Hush, child! There's ill news in the house."

Charley dropped his voice to an awe-struck whisper. "What is it,
Judith? Is papa worse?"

"Child! there's illness of mind as well as of body. I didn't say
sickness; I said ill news. I don't rightly understand it; the mistress
said a word to me, and I guessed the rest. And it was me that took in
the letter! _Me_! I wish I had put it in my kitchen fire first!"

"Is it--Judith, is it news of the--the cause? Is it over?"

"It's over, as I gathered. 'Twas a London letter, and it came by the
afternoon post. All the poor master's hopes and dependencies for years
have been wrested from him. And if they'd give me my way, I'd prosecute
them postmen for bringing such ill luck to a body's door."

Charles stood something like a statue, the bright, sensitive colour
deserting his cheek. One of those causes, Might _versus_ Right, of
which there are so many in the world, had been pending in the Channing
family for years and years. It included a considerable amount of money,
which ought, long ago, to have devolved peaceably to Mr. Channing; but
Might was against him, and Might threw it into Chancery. The decision
of the Vice-Chancellor had been given for Mr. Channing, upon which
Might, in his overbearing power, carried it to a higher tribunal.
Possibly the final decision, from which there could be no appeal, had
now come.

"Judith," Charles asked, after a pause, "did you hear whether--whether
the letter--I mean the news--had anything to do with the Lord
Chancellor?"

"Oh, bother the Lord Chancellor!" was Judith's response. "It had to do
with somebody that's an enemy to your poor papa. I know that much.
Who's this?"

The hall door had opened, and Judith and Charles turned towards it. A
gay, bright-featured young man of three and twenty entered, tall and
handsome, as it was in the nature of the Channings to be. He was the
eldest son of the family, James; or, as he was invariably styled,
Hamish. He rose six foot two in his stockings, was well made, and
upright. In grace and strength of frame the Yorkes and the Channings
stood A1 in Helstonleigh.

"Now, then! What are you two concocting? Is he coming over you again to
let him make more toffy, Judy, and burn out the bottom of another
saucepan?"

"Hamish, Judy says there's bad news come in by the London post. I am
afraid the Lord Chancellor has given judgment--given it against us."

The careless smile, the half-mocking, expression left the lips of
Hamish. He glanced from Judith to Charles, from Charles to Judith. "Is
it sure?" he breathed.

"It's sure that it's awful news of some sort," returned Judith; "and
the mistress said to me that all was over now. They be all in there,
but you two," pointing with her finger to the parlour on the left of
the hall; "and you had better go in to them. Master Hamish--"

"Well?" returned Hamish, in a tone of abstraction.

"You must every one of you just make the best of it, and comfort the
poor master. You are young and strong; while he--you know what _he_ is.
You, in special, Master Hamish, for you're the eldest born, and were
the first of 'em that I ever nursed upon my knee."

"Of course--of course," he hastily replied. "But, oh, Judith! you don't
know half the ill this must bring upon us! Come along, Charley; let us
hear the worst."

Laying his arm with an affectionate gesture round the boy's neck,
Hamish drew him towards the parlour. It was a square, light, cheerful
room. Not the best room: that was on the other side the hall. On a
sofa, underneath the window, reclined Mr. Channing, his head and
shoulders partly raised by cushions. His illness had continued long,
and now, it was feared, had become chronic. A remarkably fine specimen
of manhood he must have been in his day, his countenance one of
thoughtful goodness, pleasant to look upon. Arthur, the second son, had
inherited its thoughtfulness, its expression of goodness; James, its
beauty; but there was a great likeness between all the four sons.
Arthur, only nineteen, was nearly as tall as his brother. He stood
bending over the arm of his father's sofa. Tom, looking very blank and
cross, sat at the table, his elbows leaning on it. Mrs. Channing's
pale, sweet face was bent towards her daughter's, Constance, a graceful
girl of one and twenty; and Annabel, a troublesome young lady of nearly
fourteen, was surreptitiously giving twitches to Tom's hair.

Arthur moved from the place next his father when Hamish entered, as if
yielding him the right to stand there. A more united family it would be
impossible to find. The brothers and sisters loved each other dearly,
and Hamish they almost reverenced--excepting Annabel. Plenty of love
the child possessed; but of reverence, little. With his gay good
humour, and his indulgent, merry-hearted spirit, Hamish Channing was
one to earn love as his right, somewhat thoughtless though he was.
Thoroughly well, in the highest sense of the term, had the Channings
been reared. Not of their own wisdom had Mr. and Mrs. Channing trained
their children.

"What's the matter, sir?" asked Hamish, smoothing his brow, and
suffering the hopeful smile to return to his lips. "Judith says some
outrageous luck has arrived; come express, by post."

"Joke while you may, Hamish," interposed Mrs. Channing, in a low voice;
"I shrink from telling it you. Can you not guess the news?"

Hamish looked round at each, individually, with his sunny smile, and
then let it rest upon his mother. "The very worst I can guess is not so
bad. We are all here in our accustomed health. Had we sent Annabel up
in that new balloon they are advertising, I might fancy it had capsized
with her--as it _will_ some day. Annabel, never you be persuaded to
mount the air in that fashion."

"Hamish! Hamish!" gently reproved Mrs. Channing. But perhaps she
discerned the motive which actuated him. Annabel clapped her hands. She
would have thought it great fun to go up in a balloon.

"Well, mother, the worst tidings that the whole world could bring upon
us cannot, I say, be very dreadful, while we can discuss them as we are
doing now," said Hamish. "I suppose the Lord Chancellor has pronounced
against us?"

"Irrevocably. The suit is for ever at an end, and we have lost it."

"Hamish is right," interrupted Mr. Channing. "When the letter arrived,
I was for a short time overwhelmed. But I begin to see it already in a
less desponding light; and by to-morrow I dare say I shall be cheerful
over it. One blessed thing--children, I say advisedly, a 'blessed'
thing--the worry will be over."

Charley lifted his head. "The worry, papa?"

"Ay, my boy. The agitation--the perpetual excitement--the sickening
suspense--the yearning for the end. You cannot understand this,
Charley; you can none of you picture it, as it has been, for me. Could
I have gone abroad, as other men, it would have shaken itself off
amidst the bustle of the world, and have pressed upon me only at odd
times and seasons. But here have I lain; suspense my constant
companion. It was not right, to allow the anxiety so to work upon me:
but I could not help it; I really could not."

"We shall manage to do without it, papa," said Arthur.

"Yes; after a bit, we shall manage very well. The worst is, we are
behindhand in our payments; for you know how surely I counted upon
this. It ought to have been mine; it was mine by full right of justice,
though it now seems that the law was against me. It is a great
affliction; but it is one of those which may be borne with an open
brow."

"What do you mean, papa?"

"Afflictions are of two kinds. The one we bring upon ourselves, through
our own misconduct; the other is laid upon us by God for our own
advantage. Yes, my boys, we receive many blessings in disguise. Trouble
of this sort will only serve to draw out your manly energies, to make
you engage vigorously in the business of life, to strengthen your
self-dependence and your trust in God. This calamity of the lost
lawsuit we must all meet bravely. One mercy, at any rate, the news
has brought with it."

"What is that?" asked Mrs. Channing, lifting her sad face.

"When I have glanced to the possibility of the decision being against
me, I have wondered _how_ I should pay its long and heavy costs;
whether our home must not be broken up to do it, and ourselves turned
out upon the world. But the costs are not to fall upon me; all are to
be paid out of the estate."

"That's good news!" ejaculated Hamish, his face radiant, as he nodded
around.

"My darling boys," resumed Mr. Channing, "you must all work and do your
best. I had thought this money would have made things easier for you;
but it is not to be. Not that I would have a boy of mine cherish for a
moment the sad and vain dream which some do--that of living in
idleness. God has sent us all into the world to work; some with their
hands, some with their heads; all according to their abilities and
their station. You will not be the worse off," Mr. Charming added with
a smile, "for working a little harder than you once thought would be
necessary."

"Perhaps the money may come to us, after all, by some miracle,"
suggested Charley.

"No," replied Mr. Channing. "It has wholly gone from us. It is as much
lost to us as though we had never possessed a claim to it."

It was even so. This decision of the Lord Chancellor had taken it from
the Channing family for ever.

"Never mind!" cried Tom, throwing up his trencher, which he had
carelessly carried into the room with him. "As papa says, we have our
hands and brains: and they often win the race against money in the long
run."

Yes. The boys had active hands and healthy brains--no despicable
inheritance, when added to a firm faith in God, and an ardent wish to
use, and not misuse, the talents given to them.


CHAPTER III.


CONSTANCE CHANNING.

How true is the old proverb--"Man proposes but God disposes!" God's
ways are not as our ways. His dealings with us are often mysterious.
Happy those, who can detect His hand in all the varied chances and
changes of the world.

I am not sure that we can quite picture to ourselves the life that had
been Mr. Channing's. Of gentle birth, and reared to no profession, the
inheritance which ought to have come to him was looked upon as a
sufficient independence. That it would come to him, had never been
doubted by himself or by others; and it was only at the very moment
when he thought he was going to take possession of it, that some enemy
set up a claim and threw it into Chancery. You may object to the word
"enemy," but it could certainly not be looked upon as the act of a
friend. By every right, in all justice, it belonged to James Channing;
but he who put in his claim, taking advantage of a quibble of law, was
a rich man and a mighty one. I should not like to take possession of
another's money in such a manner. The good, old-fashioned, wholesome
fear would be upon me, that it would bring no good either to me or
mine.

James Channing never supposed but that the money would be his some
time. Meanwhile he sought and obtained employment to occupy his days;
to bring "grist to the mill," until the patrimony should come.
Hoping, hoping, hoping on; hope and disappointment, hope and
disappointment--there was nothing else for years and years; and you
know who has said, that "Hope deferred maketh the heart sick." There
have been many such cases in the world, but I question, I say, if we
can quite realize them. However, the end had come--the certainty of
disappointment; and Mr. Channing was already beginning to be thankful
that suspense, at any rate, was over.

He was the head of an office--or it may be more correct to say the head
of the Helstonleigh branch of it, for the establishment was a London
one--a large, important concern, including various departments of
Insurance. Hamish was in the same office; and since Mr. Channing's
rheumatism had become chronic, it was Hamish who chiefly transacted the
business of the office, generally bringing home the books when he left,
and going over them in the evening with his father. Thus the work was
effectually transacted, and Mr. Channing retained his salary. The
directors were contented that it should be so, for Mr. Channing
possessed their thorough respect and esteem.

After the ill news was communicated to them, the boys left the parlour,
and assembled in a group in the study, at the back of the house, to
talk it over. Constance was with them, but they would not admit
Annabel. A shady, pleasant, untidy room was that study, opening to a
cool, shady garden. It had oil-cloth on the floor instead of carpeting,
and books and playthings were strewed about it.

"What an awful shame that there should be so much injustice in the
world!" spoke passionate Tom, flinging his Euripides on the table.

"But for one thing, I should be rather glad the worry's over," cried
Hamish. "We know the worst now--that we have only ourselves to trust
to."

"Our hands and brains, as Tom said," remarked Charley. "What is the
'one thing' that you mean, Hamish?"

Hamish seized Charley by the waist, lifted him up, and let him drop
again. "It is what does not concern little boys to know: and I don't
see why you should be in here with us, young sir, any more than
Annabel."

"A presentiment that this would be the ending has been upon me for some
time," broke in the gentle voice of Constance. "In my own mind I have
kept laying out plans for us all. You see, it is not as though we
should enjoy the full income that we have hitherto had."

"What's that, Constance?" asked Tom hotly. "The decision does not touch
papa's salary; and you heard him say that the costs were to be paid out
of the estate. A pretty thing it would be if any big-wigged Lord
Chancellor could take away the money that a man works hard for!"

"Hasty, as usual, Tom," she said with a smile. "You know--we all
know--that, counting fully upon this money, papa is behindhand in his
payments. They must be paid off now in the best way that may be found:
and it will take so much from his income. It will make no difference to
you, Tom; all you can do, is to try on heartily for the seniorship and
the exhibition."

"Oh, won't it make a difference to me, though!" retorted Tom. "And
suppose I don't gain it, Constance?"

"Then you will have to work all the harder, Tom, in some other walk of
life. Failing the exhibition, of course there will be no chance of your
going up to the university; and you must give up the hope of entering
the Church. The worst off--the one upon whom this disappointment must
fall the hardest--will be Arthur."

Arthur Channing--astride on the arm of the old-fashioned sofa--lifted
his large deep blue eyes to Constance with a flash of intelligence: it
seemed to say, that she only spoke of what he already knew. He had been
silent hitherto; he was of a silent nature: a quiet, loving, tender
nature: while the rest spoke, he was content to think.

"Ay, that it will!" exclaimed Hamish. "What will become of your
articles now, Arthur?"

It should be explained that Arthur had entered the office of Mr.
Galloway, who was a proctor, and also was steward to the Dean and
Chapter. Arthur was only a subordinate in it, a clerk receiving
pay--and very short pay, too; but it was intended that he should enter
upon his articles as soon as this money that should be theirs enabled
Mr. Channing to pay for them. Hamish might well ask what would become
of his articles now!

"I can't see a single step before me," cried Arthur. "Except that I
must stay on as I am, a paid clerk."

"What rubbish, Arthur!" flashed Tom, who possessed a considerable share
of temper when it was roused. "As if you, Arthur Channing, could remain
a paid clerk at Galloway's! Why, you'd be on a level with Jenkins--old
Jenkins's son. Roland Yorke _would_ look down on you then; more than he
does now. And that need not be!"

The sensitive crimson dyed Arthur's fair open brow. Of all the failings
that he found it most difficult to subdue in his own heart, pride bore
the greatest share. From the moment the ill news had come to his
father, the boy felt that he should have to do fierce battle with his
pride; that there was ever-recurring mortification laid up in store for
it. "But I _can_ battle with it," he bravely whispered to himself: "and
I will do it, God helping me."

"I may whistle for my new cricket-bat and stumps now," grumbled Tom.

"And I wonder when I shall have my new clothes?" added Charley.

"How selfish we all are!" broke forth Arthur.

"Selfish?" chafed Tom.

"Yes, selfish. Here we are, croaking over our petty disappointments,
and forgetting the worst share that falls upon papa. Failing this
money, how will he go to the German baths?"

A pause of consternation. In their own grievances the boys had lost
sight of the hope which had recently been shared by them all. An
eminent physician, passing through Helstonleigh, had seen Mr. Channing,
and given his opinion that if he would visit certain medicinal spas in
Germany, health might be restored to him. When the cause should be
terminated in their favour, Mr. Channing had intended to set out. But
now it was given against him; and hope of setting out had gone with it.

"I wish I could carry him on my back to Germany, and work to keep him
while he stayed there!" impulsively spoke Tom. "Wretchedly selfish we
have been, to dwell on our disappointments, by the side of papa's. I
wish I was older."

Constance was standing against the window. She was of middle height,
thoroughly ladylike and graceful; her features fair and beautiful, and
her dark-blue eyes and smooth white brow wonderfully like Arthur's. She
wore a muslin dress with a delicate pink sprig upon it, the lace of its
open sleeves falling on her pretty white hands, which were playing
unconsciously with a spray of jessamine, while she listened to her
brothers as each spoke.

"Tom," she interposed, in answer to the last remark, "it is of no use
wishing for impossibilities. We must look steadfastly at things as they
exist, and see what is the best that can be made of them. All that you
and Charles can do is to work well on at your studies--Annabel the
same; and it is to be hoped this blow will take some of her
thoughtlessness out of her. Hamish, and Arthur, and I, must try and be
more active than we have been."

"You!" echoed Arthur. "Why, what can you do, Constance?"

A soft blush rose to her cheeks. "I tell you that I have seemed to
anticipate this," she said, "and my mind has busied itself with plans
and projects. I shall look out for a situation as daily governess."

A groan of anger burst from Tom. His quick temper, and Arthur's pride,
alike rose up and resented the words. "A daily governess! It is only
another name for a servant. Fine, that would be, for Miss Channing!"

Constance laughed. "Oh, Tom! there are worse misfortunes at sea. I
would go out wholly, but that papa would not like to spare me, and I
must take Annabel for music and other things of an evening. Don't look
cross. It is an excellent thought; and I shall not mind it."

"What will mamma say?" asked Tom, ironically. "You just ask her!"

"Mamma knows," replied Constance. "Mamma has had her fears about the
termination of the lawsuit, just as I have. Ah! while you boys were
laughing and joking, and pursuing your sports or your studies of a
night, I and mamma would be talking over the shadowed future. I told
mamma that if the time and the necessity came for turning my education
and talents to account, I should do it with a willing heart; and mamma,
being rather more sensible than her impetuous son Tom, cordially
approved."

Tom made a paper bullet and flung it at Constance, his honest eyes half
laughing.

"So should I approve," said Hamish. "It is a case, taking into
consideration my father's state, in which all of us should help who are
able. Of course, were you boys grown up and getting money, Constance
_should_ be exempt from aiding and abetting; but as it is, it is
different. There will be no disgrace in her becoming a governess; and
Helstonleigh will never think it so. She is a lady always, and so she
would be if she were to turn to and wash up dishes. The only doubt
is--"

He stopped, and looked hesitatingly at Constance. As if penetrating his
meaning, her eyes fell before his.

"--Whether Yorke will like it," went on Hamish, as though he had not
halted in his sentence. And the pretty blush in Constance Channing's
face deepened to a glowing crimson. Tom made a whole heap of bullets at
once, and showered them on to her.

"So Hamish--be quiet, Tom!--you may inquire all over Helstonleigh
to-morrow, whether any one wants a governess; a well-trained young lady
of twenty-one, who can play, sing, and paint, speak really good
English, and decent French, and has a smattering of German," rattled on
Constance, as if to cover her blushes. "I shall ask forty guineas a
year. Do you think I shall get it?"

"I think you ought to ask eighty," said Arthur.

"So I would, if I were thirty-one instead of twenty-one," said
Constance. "Oh dear! here am I, laughing and joking over it, but it is
a serious thing to undertake--the instruction of the young. I hope I
shall be enabled to do my duty in it. What's that?"

It was a merry, mocking laugh, which came from the outside of the
window, and then a head of auburn hair, wild and entangled, was pushed
up, and in burst Annabel, her saucy dark eyes dancing with delight.

"You locked me out, but I have been outside the window and heard it
all," cried she, dancing before them in the most provoking manner.
"Arthur can only be a paid clerk, and Constance is going to be a
governess and get forty guineas a year, and if Tom doesn't gain his
exhibition he must turn bell-ringer to the college, for papa can't pay
for him at the university now!"

"What do you deserve, you wicked little picture of deceit?" demanded
Hamish. "Do you forget the old story of the listener who lost his
ears?"

"I always do listen whenever I can, and I always will," avowed Annabel.
"I have warned you so a hundred times over, and now I warn you again. I
wish Tom _would_ turn bell-ringer! I'd make him ring a peal that should
astonish Helstonleigh, the day Constance goes out as governess. Shan't
I have a fine time of it! It's lessons for me now, morning, noon, and
night,--she's always worrying me; but, once let us get her back turned,
and I shall have whole holiday! She may think I'll do my lessons with
her at night; but I won't!"

The boys began to chase her round the table. She was almost a match for
all four--a troublesome, indulged, sunny-hearted child, who delighted
in committing faults, that she might have the pleasure of avowing them.
She flew out into the garden, first knocking over Constance's
paint-box, and some of them went after her.

At that moment Mr. Yorke came in. You have seen him once before, in his
place in Helstonleigh Cathedral: a tall, slender man, with pale,
well-formed features, and an attractive smile. His dark eyes rested on
Constance as he entered, and once more the brilliant colour lighted up
her face. When prospects should be a little better--that is, when Mr.
Yorke should have a sufficient living bestowed upon him--Constance was
to become his wife. His stipend from the minor canonry was at present
trifling.

"Judith met me in the hall as I was going into the parlour, and told me
I had better come here," he observed. "She said bad news had arrived
for Mr. Channing."

"Yes," answered Hamish. "The lawsuit is lost."

"Lost!" echoed Mr. Yorke.

"Irrevocably. We were discussing ways and means amongst ourselves,"
said Hamish, "for of course this changes our prospects materially."

"And Constance is going out as a governess, if she can find any one to
take her, and Arthur is to plod on with Joe Jenkins, and Tom means to
apply for the post of bell-ringer to the cathedral," interposed the
incorrigible Annabel, who had once more darted in, and heard the last
words. "Can you recommend Constance to a situation, Mr. Yorke?"

He treated the information lightly; laughed at and with Annabel; but
Constance noticed that a flush crossed his brow, and that he quitted
the subject.

"Has the inked surplice been found out, Tom,--I mean the culprit?"

"Not yet, Mr. Yorke."

"Charles, you can tell me who it was, I hear?"

There was a startled glance for a moment in Charles's eye, as he looked
up at Mr. Yorke, and an unconscious meaning in his tone.

"Why, do _you_ know who it was, sir?"

"Not I," said Mr. Yorke. "I know that, whoever it may have been
deserves a sound flogging, if he did it willfully."

"Then, sir, why do you suppose I know?"

"I met Hurst just now, and he stopped me with the news that he was sure
Charley Channing could put his hand upon the offender, if he chose to
do it. It was not yourself, was it Charley?"

Mr. Yorke laughed as he asked the question. Charley laughed also, but
in a constrained manner. Meanwhile the others, to whom the topic had
been as Sanscrit, demanded an explanation, which Mr. Yorke gave, so far
as he was cognizant of the facts.

"What a shame to spoil a surplice! Have you cause to suspect any
particular boy, Charley?" demanded Hamish.

"Don't ask him in my presence," interrupted Tom in the same hurried
manner that he had used in the cloisters. "I should be compelled in
honour to inform the master, and Charley would have his life thrashed
out of him by the school."

"Don't _you_ ask me, either, Mr. Yorke," said Charles; and the tone of
his voice, still unconsciously to himself, bore a strange serious
earnestness.

"Why not?" returned Mr. Yorke. "I am not a senior of the college
school, and under obedience to its head-master."

"If you are all to stop in this room, I and Tom shall never get our
lessons done," was all the reply made by Charles, as he drew a chair to
the table and opened his exercise books.

"And I never could afford that," cried Tom, following his example, and
looking out the books he required. "It won't do to let Huntley and
Yorke get ahead of me."

"Trying for the seniorship as strenuously as ever, Tom?" asked Mr.
Yorke.

"Of course I am," replied Tom Channing, lifting his eyes in slight
surprise. "And I hope to get it."

"Which of the three stands the best chance?"

"Well," said Tom, "it will be about a neck-and-neck race between us. My
name stands first on the rolls of the school; therefore, were our
merits equal, in strict justice it ought to be given to me. But the
master could pass me over if he pleased, and decide upon either of the
other two."

"Which of those two stands first on the rolls?"

"Harry Huntley. Yorke is the last. But that does not count for much,
you know, Mr. Yorke, as we all entered together. They enrolled us as
our initial letters stood in the alphabet."

"It will turn wholly upon your scholastic merits, then? I hear--but
Helstonleigh is famous for its gossip--that in past times it has
frequently gone by favour."

"So it has," said Tom Channing, throwing back his head with a whole
world of indignation in the action. "Eligible boys have been passed
over, and the most incapable dolt set up above them; all because his
friends were in a good position, and hand-in-glove with the
head-master. I don't mean Pye, you know; before he came. It's said the
last case was so flagrant that it came to the ears of the dean, and he
interfered and forbade favour for the future. At any rate, there's an
impression running through the school that merit and conduct, taken
together, will be allowed fair play."

"Conduct?" echoed Arthur Channing.

Tom nodded:--"Conduct is to be brought in, this time. One day, when the
first desk fell into a row with the head-master, through some mischief
we had gone into out of school, he asked us if we were aware that our
conduct, as it might be good or ill, might gain or lose us the
seniorship. Yorke, who is bold enough, you know, for ten, remarked that
that was a new dodge, and the master overheard the words, and said,
Yes, he was happy to say there were many new 'dodges' he had seen fit
to introduce, which he trusted might tend to make the school different
from what it had been. Of course we had the laugh at Yorke; but the
master took no more notice of it. Since then, I assure you, Mr. Yorke,
our behaviour has been a pattern for young ladies--mine, and Huntley's,
and Yorke's. We don't care to lose a chance."

Tom Channing nodded sagaciously as he concluded, and they left the room
to him and Charles.


CHAPTER IV.


NO HOLIDAY TO-DAY.

"Now, Constance, that we have a moment alone, what is this about you?"
began Mr. Yorke, as they stood together in the garden.

"Annabel said the truth--that I do think of going out as daily
governess," she replied, bending over a carnation to hide the blush
which rose to her cheeks, a very rival to the blushing flower. "It is a
great misfortune that has fallen upon us--at least we can only look at
it in that light at present, and will, beyond doubt, be productive of
some embarrassment. Do you not see, William, that it is incumbent upon
us all to endeavour to lighten this embarrassment, those of us who can
do so? I must assume my share of the burden."

Mr. Yorke was silent. Constance took it for granted that he was
displeased. He was of an excellent family, and she supposed he disliked
the step she was about to take--deemed it would be derogatory to his
future wife.

"Have you fully made up your mind?" he at length asked.

"Yes. I have talked it over with mamma--for indeed she and I both seem
to have anticipated this--and she thinks with me, that it is what I
ought to do. William, how could I reconcile it to my conscience not to
help?" she continued. "Think of papa! think of his strait! It appears
to be a plain duty thrown in my path."

"By yourself, Constance?" "Not by myself," she whispered, lifting for
a moment her large blue eyes. "Oh, William, William, do not be
displeased with me! do not forbid it! It is honourable to work--it is
right to do what we can. Strive to see it in the right light."

"Let that carnation alone, Constance; give your attention to me. What
if I do forbid it?"

She walked a little forward, leaving the carnation bed, and halted
under the shade of the dark cedar tree, her heart and colour alike
fading. Mr. Yorke followed and stood before her.

"William, I must do my duty. There is no other way open to me, by which
I can earn something to help in this time of need, except that of
becoming a governess. Many a lady, better born than I, has done it
before me."

"A daily governess, I think you said?"

"Papa could not spare me to go out altogether; Annabel could not spare
me either; and--"

"I would not spare you," he struck in, filling up her pause. "Was that
what you were about to say, Constance?"

The rosy hue stole over her face again, and a sweet smile to her lips:
"Oh, William, if you will only sanction it! I shall go about it then
with the lightest heart!"

He looked at her with an expression she did not understand, and shook
his head. Constance thought it a negative shake, and her hopes fell
again. "You did not answer my question," said Mr. Yorke. "What if I
forbid it?"

"But it seems to be my duty," she urged from between her pale and
parted lips.

"Constance, that is no answer."

"Oh, do not, do not! William, do not you throw this temptation in my
way--that of choosing between yourself and a plain duty that lies
before me."

"The temptation, as you call it, must be for a later consideration. Why
will you not answer me? What would be your course if I forbade it?"

"I do not know. But, Oh, William, if you gave me up--"

She could not continue. She turned away to hide her face from Mr.
Yorke. He followed and obtained forcible view of it. It was wet with
tears.

"Nay, but I did not mean to carry it so far as to cause you real grief,
my dearest," he said, in a changed tone. "Though you brought it on
yourself," he added, laughing, as he bent his face down.

"How did I bring it on myself?"

"By doubting me. I saw you doubted me at the first, when Annabel spoke
of it in the study. Constance, if you, possessed as you are of great
acquirements, refused from any notion of false pride, to exert them for
your family in a time of need, I should say you were little fitted for
the wife of one whose whole duty it must be to do his Master's work."

"You will sanction the measure then?" she rejoined, her countenance
lighting up.

"How could you doubt me? I wish I could make a home at once to take you
to; but as you must remain in this a little longer, it is only fair
that you should contribute to its maintenance. We all have to bend to
circumstances. I shall not love my wife the less, because she has had
the courage to turn her talents to account. What could you be thinking
of, child?"

"Forgive me, William," she softly pleaded. "But you looked so grave and
were so silent."

Mr. Yorke smiled. "The truth is, Constance, I was turning in my mind
whether I could not help to place you, and pondering the advantages and
disadvantages of a situation I know of. Lady Augusta is looking out for
a daily governess."

"Is she?" exclaimed Constance. "I wonder whether--I--should suit her?"

