"Did they treat you--er--with politeness?" asked Wilfred curiously.

"Oh, well enough," answered the clerk. "I can't say it's a place I
hanker to have much to do with. It's not like an afternoon tea party.
But it's all right. Do you wish me to do anything further?"

"Yes!" replied Wilfred with emphasis, "I do. I wish you would go right
up to Mrs. Pumpelly's house, conduct that lady to the nearest police
court and have her swear out the summons for Mrs. Wells herself. I'll
telephone her that you are coming."

Which was a wise conclusion, in view of the fact that Edna Pumpelly, née
Haskins, was much better equipped by nature to take care of Mr. Wilfred
Edgerton in the hectic environs of a police court than he was qualified
to take care of her. And so it was that just as Mrs. Rutherford Wells
was about to sit down to tea with several fashionable friends her butler
entered, bearing upon a salver a printed paper, which he presented to
her, in manner and form the following:

    CITY MAGISTRATE'S COURT, CITY OF NEW YORK

    In the name of the people of the State of New York To "Jane" Wells,
    the name "Jane" being fictitious:

    You are hereby summoned to appear before the ------ District
    Magistrate's Court, Borough of Manhattan, City of New York, on the
    eighth day of May, 1920, at ten o'clock in the forenoon, to answer
    the charge made against you by Edna Pumpelly for violation of
    Section Two, Article Two of the Traffic Regulations providing that a
    vehicle waiting at the curb shall promptly give way to a vehicle
    arriving to take up or set down passengers, and upon your failure to
    appear at the time and place herein mentioned you are liable to a
    fine of not exceeding fifty dollars or to imprisonment of not
    exceeding ten days or both.

    Dated 6th day of May, 1920.

    JAMES CUDDAHEY, Police Officer,

    Police Precinct ------, New York City.

    Attest: JOHN J. JONES, Chief City Magistrate.

"Heavens!" cried Mrs. Wells as she read this formidable document. "What
a horrible woman! What shall I do?"

Mr. John De Puyster Hepplewhite, one of the nicest men in New York, who
had himself once had a somewhat interesting experience in the criminal
courts in connection with the arrest of a tramp who had gone to sleep in
a pink silk bed in the Hepplewhite mansion on Fifth Avenue, smiled
deprecatingly, set down his Dresden-china cup and dabbed his mustache
decorously with a filigree napkin.

"Dear lady," he remarked with conviction, "in such distressing
circumstances I have no hesitation whatever in advising you to consult
Mr. Ephraim Tutt."

       *       *       *       *       *

"I have been thinking over what you said the other day regarding the
relationship of crime to progress, Mr. Tutt, and I'm rather of the
opinion that it's rot," announced Tutt as he strolled across from his
own office to that of his senior partner for a cup of tea at practically
the very moment when Mr. Hepplewhite was advising Mrs. Wells. "In the
vernacular--bunk."

"What did he say?" asked Miss Wiggin, rinsing out with hot water Tutt's
special blue-china cup, in the bottom of which had accumulated some
reddish-brown dust from Mason & Welsby's Admiralty and Divorce Reports
upon the adjacent shelf.

"He made the point," answered Tutt, helping himself to a piece of toast,
"that crime was--if I may be permitted to use the figure--part of the
onward urge of humanity toward a new and perhaps better social order; a
natural impulse to rebel against existing abuses; and he made the claim
that though an unsuccessful revolutionary was of course regarded as a
criminal, on the other hand, if successful he at once became a patriot,
a hero, a statesman or a saint."

"A very dangerous general doctrine, I should say," remarked Miss Wiggin.
"I should think it all depended on what sort of laws he was rebelling
against. I don't see how a murderer could ever be regarded as assisting
in the onward urge toward sweetness and light, exactly."

"Wouldn't it depend somewhat on whom you were murdering?" inquired Mr.
Tutt, finally succeeding in his attempt to make a damp stogy continue
in a state of combustion. "If you murdered a tyrant wouldn't you be
contributing toward progress?"

"No," retorted Miss Wiggin, "you wouldn't; and you know it. In certain
cases where the laws are manifestly unjust, antiquated or perhaps do not
really represent the moral sense of the community their violation may
occasionally call attention to their absurdity, like the famous blue
laws of Connecticut, for example; but as the laws as a whole do
crystallize the general opinion of what is right and desirable in
matters of conduct a movement toward progress would be exhibited not by
breaking laws but by making laws."

"But," argued Mr. Tutt, abandoning his stogy, "isn't the making of a new
law the same thing as changing an old law? And isn't changing a law
essentially the same thing as breaking it?"

"It isn't," replied Miss Wiggin tartly. "For the obvious and simple
reason that the legislators who change the laws have the right to do so,
while the man who breaks them has not."

"All the same," admitted Tutt, slightly wavering, "I see what Mr. Tutt
means."

"Oh, I see what he means!" sniffed Miss Wiggin. "I was only combating
what he said!"

"But the making of laws does not demonstrate progress," perversely
insisted Mr. Tutt. "The more statutes you pass the more it indicates
that you need 'em. An ideal community would have no laws at all."

"There's a thought!" interjected Tutt. "And there wouldn't be any
lawyers either!"

"As King Hal said: 'The first thing we do, let's kill all the lawyers,'"
commented Mr. Tutt.

"Awful vision!" ejaculated Miss Wiggin. "Luckily for us, that day has
not yet dawned. However, Mr. Tutt's argument is blatantly fallacious. Of
course, the making of new laws indicates an impulse toward social
betterment--and therefore toward progress."

"It seems to me," ventured Tutt, "that this conversation is more than
usually theoretical--not to say specious! The fact of the matter is that
the law is a part of our civilization and the state of the law marks the
stage of our development--more or less."

Mr. Tutt smiled sardonically.

"You have enunciated two great truths," said he. "First, that it is a
'part'; and second, 'more or less.' The law is a very small part of our
protection against what is harmful to us. It is only one of our
sanctions of conduct, and a very crude one at that. Did you ever stop to
think that compared with religion the efficacy of the law was almost
_nil_? The law deals with conduct, but only at a certain point. We are
apt to find fault with it because it makes what appear to us to be
arbitrary and unreasonable distinctions. That in large measure is
because law is only supplementary."

"How do you mean--supplementary?" queried Tutt.

"Why," answered his partner, "as James C. Carter pointed out,
ninety-nine per cent of all law is unwritten. What keeps most people
straight is not criminal statutes but their own sense of decency,
conscience or whatever you may choose to call it. Doubtless you recall
the famous saying of Diogenes Laertius: 'There is a written and an
unwritten law. The one by which we regulate our constitutions in our
cities is the written law; that which arises from custom is the
unwritten law.' I see that, of course you do! As I was saying only the
other day, infractions of good taste and of manners, civil wrongs, sins,
crimes--are in essence one and the same, differing only in degree. Thus
the man who goes out to dinner without a collar violates the laws of
social usage; if he takes all his clothes off and walks the streets he
commits a crime. In a measure it simply depends on how many clothes he
has on what grade of offense he commits. From that point of view the man
who is not a gentleman is in a sense a criminal. But the law can't make
a man a gentleman."

"I should say not!" murmured Miss Wiggin.

"Well," continued Mr. Tutt, "we have various ways of dealing with these
outlaws. The man who violates our ideas of good taste or good manners is
sent to Coventry; the man who does you a wrong is mulcted in damages;
the sinner is held under the town pump and ridden out of town on a rail,
or the church takes a hand and threatens him with the hereafter; but if
he crosses a certain line we arrest him and lock him up--either from
public spirit or for our own private ends."

"Hear! Hear!" cried Tutt admiringly.

"Fundamentally there is only an arbitrary distinction between wrongs,
sins and crimes. The meanest and most detestable of men, beside whom an
honest burglar is a sympathetic human being, may yet never violate a
criminal statute."

"That's so!" said Tutt. "Take Badger, for instance."

"How often we defend cases," ruminated his partner, "where the
complainant is just as bad as the prisoner at the bar--if not worse."

"And of course," added Tutt, "you must admit there are a lot of
criminals who are criminals from perfectly good motives. Take the man,
for instance, who thrashes a bystander who insults his wife--the man's
wife, I mean, naturally."

"Only in those cases where we elect to take the law into our own hands
we ought to be willing to accept the consequences like gentlemen and
sportsmen," commented the senior partner.

"This is all very interesting, no doubt," remarked Miss Wiggin, "but as
a matter of general information I should like to know why the criminal
law doesn't punish the sinners--as well as the criminals."

"I guess one reason," replied Tutt, "is that people don't wish to be
kept from sinning."

"Thou hast spoken!" agreed Mr. Tutt. "And another reason is that the
criminal law was not originally devised for the purpose of eradicating
sin--which, after all, is the state into which it is said man was
born--but was only intended to prevent certain kinds of physical
violence and lawlessness--murder, highway robbery, assault, and so on.
The church was supposed to take care of sin, and there was an elaborate
system of ecclesiastical courts. In point of fact, though there is a
great deal of misconception on the subject, the criminal law does not
deal with sin as sin at all, or even with wrongs merely as wrongs. It
has a precise and limited purpose--namely, to prevent certain kinds of
acts and to compel the performance of other acts.

"The state relies on the good taste and sense of decency, duty and
justice of the individual citizen to keep him in order most of the time.
It doesn't, or anyhow it shouldn't, attempt to deal with trifling
peccadillos; it generally couldn't. It merely says that if a man's
conscience and idea of fair play aren't enough to make him behave
himself, why, then, when he gets too obstreperous we'll lock him up. And
different generations have had entirely different ideas about what was
too obstreperous to be overlooked. In the early days the law only
punished bloodshed and violence. Later on, its scope was increased,
until thousands of acts and omissions are now made criminal by statute.
But that explains why the fact that something is a sin doesn't
necessarily mean that it is a crime. The law is artificial and not
founded on any general attempt to prohibit what is unethical, but simply
to prevent what is immediately dangerous to life, limb and property."

"Which, after all, is a good thing--for it leaves us free to do as we
choose so long as we don't harm anybody else," said Miss Wiggin.

"Yet," her employer continued, "unfortunately--or perhaps fortunately
from our professional point of view--our lawmakers from time to time get
rather hysterical and pass such a multiplicity of statutes that nobody
knows whether he is committing crime or not."

"In this enlightened state," interposed Tutt, "it's a crime to advertise
as a divorce lawyer; to attach a corpse for payment of debt; to board a
train while it is in motion; to plant oysters without permission; or
without authority wear the badge of the Patrons of Husbandry."

"Really, one would have to be a student to avoid becoming a criminal,"
commented Miss Wiggin.

Mr. Tutt rose and, looking along one of the shelves, took down a volume
which he opened at a point marked by a burned match thrust between the
leaves.

"My old friend Joseph H. Choate," he remarked, "in his memorial of his
partner, Charles H. Southmayde, who was generally regarded as one of the
greatest lawyers of our own or any other generation, says, 'The
ever-growing list of misdemeanors, created by statute, disturbed him,
and he even employed counsel to watch for such statutes introduced into
the legislature--mantraps, as he called them--lest he might, without
knowing it, commit offenses which might involve the penalty of
imprisonment.'"

"We certainly riot in the printed word," said Miss Wiggin. "Do you know
that last year alone to interpret all those statutes and decide the
respective rights of our citizens the Supreme Court of this state wrote
five thousand eight hundred pages of opinion?"

"Good Lord!" ejaculated Tutt. "Is that really so?"

"Of course it is!" she answered.

"But who reads the stuff?" demanded the junior partner. "I don't!"

"The real lawyers," replied Miss Wiggin innocently.

"The judges who write them probably read them," declared Mr. Tutt. "And
the defeated litigants; the successful ones merely read the final
paragraphs."

"But coming back to crime for a moment," said Miss Wiggin, pouring
herself out a second cup of tea; "I had almost forgotten that the
criminal law was originally intended only to keep down violence. That
explains a lot of things. I confess to being one of those who
unconsciously assumed that the law is a sort of official Mrs. Grundy."

"Not at all! Not at all!" corrected Mr. Tutt. "The law makes no pretense
of being an arbiter of morals. Even where justice is concerned it
expects the mere sentiment of the community to be capable of dealing
with trifling offenses. The laws of etiquette and manners, devised for
'the purpose of keeping fools at a distance,' are reasonably adapted to
enforcing the dictates of good taste and to dealing with minor offenses
against our ideas of propriety."

"I wonder," hazarded Miss Wiggin thoughtfully, "if there isn't some
sociological law about crimes, like the law of diminishing returns in
physics?"

"The law of what?"

"Why, the law that the greater the force or effort applied to anything,"
she explained a little vaguely, "the greater the resistance becomes,
until the effort doesn't accomplish anything; increased speed in a
warship, for instance."

"What's that got to do with crime?"

"Why, the more statutes you pass and more new crimes you create the
harder it becomes to enforce obedience to them, until finally you can't
enforce them at all."

"That is rather a profound analogy," observed Mr. Tutt. "It might well
repay study."

"Miss Wiggin has no corner on analogies," chirped Tutt. "Passing
statutes creating new crimes is like printing paper money without
anything back of it; in the one case there isn't really any more money
than there was before and in the other there isn't really any more crime
either."

"Only it makes more business for us."

"I've got another idea," continued Tutt airily, "and that is that crime
is a good thing. Not because it means progress or any bunk like that,
but because unless you had a certain amount of crime, and also criminal
lawyers to attack the law, the state would never find out the weaknesses
in its statutes. Therefore the more crime there is the more the
protective power of the state is built up, just as the fever engendered
by vaccine renders the human body immune from smallpox! Eh, what?"

"I never heard such nonsense!" exclaimed Miss Wiggin. "Do let me give
you some more tea! Eh, what?"

But at that moment Willie announced that Mr. Rutherford Wells was
calling to see Mr. Tutt and tea was hastily adjourned. Half an hour
later the old lawyer rang for Bonnie Doon.

"Bonnie," he said, "one of our clients has been complained against by
her next-door neighbor, a got-rich-quick lady, for obstructing the
street with her motor. It's obviously a case of social envy, hatred and
malice. Just take a run up there in the morning, give Mrs. Pierpont
Pumpelly and her premises the once-over and let me know of any
violations you happen to observe. I don't care how technical they are,
either."

"All right, Mr. Tutt," answered Bonnie. "I get you. Isn't there a new
ordinance governing the filling of garbage cans?"

"I think there is," nodded Mr. Tutt. "And meantime I think I'll drop
over and see Judge O'Hare."

       *       *       *       *       *

"I'll settle her hash for her, the hussy!" declared Mrs. Pumpelly to
her husband at dinner the following evening. "I'll teach her to insult
decent people and violate the law. Just because her husband belongs to a
swell club she thinks she can do as she likes! But I'll show her! Wait
till I get her in court to-morrow!"

"Well, of course, Edna, I'll stand back of you and all that," Pierpont
assured her. "No, thank you, Simmons, I don't wish any more 'voly vong.'
But I'd hate to see you get all messed up in a police court!"

"Me--messed up!" she exclaimed haughtily. "I guess I can take care of
myself most anywheres--good and plenty!"

"Of course you can, dearie!" he protested in a soothing tone. "But these
shyster lawyers who hang around those places--you 'member Jim O'Leary
out home to Athens? Well, they don't know a lady when they see one, and
they wouldn't care if they did; and they'll try and pry into your past
life--"

"I haven't got any past life, and you know it too, Pierpont Pumpelly!"
she retorted hotly. "I'm a respectable, law-abidin' woman, I am. I never
broke a law in all my days--"

"Excuse me, madam," interposed Simmons, with whom the second footman had
just held a whispered conference behind the screen, "but James informs
me that there is a police hofficer awaiting to see you in the front
'all."

"To see me?" ejaculated Mrs. Pumpelly.

"Yes, madam."

"I suppose it's about to-morrow. Tell him to call round about nine
o'clock in the morning."

"'E says 'e must see you to-night, ma'am," annotated James excitedly.
"And 'e acted most hobnoxious to me!"

"Oh, he acted obnoxious, did he?" remarked Mrs. Pumpelly airily. "What
was he obnoxious about?"

"'E 'as a paper 'e says 'e wants to serve on you personal," answered
James in agitation. "'E says if you will hallow 'm to step into the
dining-room 'e won't take a minute."

"Perhaps we'd better let him come in," mildly suggested Pierpont. "It's
always best to keep on good terms with the police."

"But I haven't broken any law," repeated Mrs. Pumpelly blankly.

"Maybe you have without knowin' it," commented her husband.

"Why, Pierpont Pumpelly, you know I never did such a thing!" she
retorted.

"Well, let's have him in, anyway," he urged. "I can't digest my food
with him sitting out there in the hall."

Mrs. Pumpelly took control of the situation.

"Have the man in, Simmons!" she directed grandly.

And thereupon entered Officer Patrick Roony. Politely Officer Roony
removed his cap, politely he unbuttoned several yards of blue overcoat
and fumbled in the caverns beneath. Eventually he brought forth a square
sheet of paper--it had a certain familiarity of aspect for Mrs.
Pumpelly--and handed it to her.

"Sorry to disturb you, ma'am," he apologized, "but I was instructed to
make sure and serve you personal."

"That's all right! That's all right!" said Pierpont with an effort at
bonhomie. "The--er--butler will give you a highball if you say so."

"Oh, boy, lead me to it!" murmured Roony in the most approved manner of
East Fourteenth Street. "Which way?"

"Come with me!" intoned Simmons with the exalted gesture of an
archbishop conducting an ecclesiastical ceremonial.

"What does it say?" asked her husband hurriedly as the butler led the
cop to it.

"Sh-h!" warned Mrs. Pumpelly. "James, kindly retire!"

James retired, and the lady examined the paper by the tempered light of
the shaded candles surrounding what was left of the "voly vong."

"Who ever heard of such a thing?" she cried. "Just listen here,
Pierpont!"

"CITY MAGISTRATE'S COURT, CITY OF NEW YORK

"In the name of the people of the State of New York

"To 'Maggie' Pumpelly, the name 'Maggie' being fictitious:

"You are hereby summoned to appear before the ------ District
Magistrate's Court, Borough of Manhattan, City of New York, on the tenth
day of May, 1920, at ten o'clock in the forenoon, to answer to the
charge made against you by William Mulcahy for violation of Section One,
Article Two, of the Police Traffic Regulations in that on May 7, 1920,
you permitted a vehicle owned or controlled by you to stop with its left
side to the curb on a street other than a one-way traffic street; and
also for violation of Section Seventeen, Article Two of Chapter
Twenty-four of the Code of Ordinances of the City of New York in that on
the date aforesaid, being the owner of a vehicle subject to Subdivision
One of said section and riding therein, you caused or permitted the same
to proceed at a rate of speed greater than four miles an hour in turning
corner of intersecting highways, to wit, Park Avenue and Seventy-third
Street; and upon your failure to appear at the time and place herein
mentioned you are liable to a fine of not exceeding fifty dollars or to
imprisonment of not exceeding ten days or both.

"Dated 7th day of May, 1920.

"PATRICK ROONY, Police Officer,

"Police Precinct ----,

"New York City.

"Attest: JOHN J. JONES,

"Chief City Magistrate."

"Well, I never!" she exploded. "What rubbish! Four miles an hour! And
'Maggie'--as if everybody didn't know my name was Edna!"

"The whole thing looks a bit phony to me!" muttered Pierpont, worried
over the possibility of having wasted a slug of the real thing on an
unreal police officer. "Perhaps that feller wasn't a cop at all!"

"And who's William Mul-kay-hay?" she continued. "I don't know any such
person! You better call up Mr. Edgerton right away and see what the law
is."

"I hope he knows!" countered Mr. Pumpelly. "Four miles an hour--that's a
joke! A baby carriage goes faster than four miles an hour. You wouldn't
arrest a baby!"

"Well, call him up!" directed Mrs. Pumpelly. "Tell him he should come
right round over here."

The summons from his client interrupted Mr. Edgerton in the middle of an
expensive dinner at his club and he left it in no good humor. He didn't
like being ordered round like a servant the way Mrs. Pumpelly was
ordering him. It wasn't dignified. Moreover, a lawyer out of his office
was like a snail out of its shell--at a distinct disadvantage. You
couldn't just make an excuse to step into the next office for a moment
and ask somebody what the law was. The Edgertons always kept somebody in
an adjoining office who knew the law--many lawyers do.

On the Pumpelly stoop the attorney found standing an evil-looking and
very shabby person holding a paper in his hand, but he ignored him until
the grilled iron _cinquecento_ door swung open, revealing James, the
retiring second man.

Then, before he could enter, the shabby person pushed past him and asked
in a loud, vulgar tone: "Does Edna Pumpelly live here?"

James stiffened in the approved style of erect vertebrata.

"This is Madame Pierpont Pumpelly's residence," he replied with hauteur.

"Madam or no madam, just slip this to her," said the shabby one. "Happy
days!"

Mr. Wilfred Edgerton beneath the medieval tapestry of the Pumpelly
marble hall glanced at the dirty sheet in James' hand and, though
unfamiliar with the form of the document, perceived it to be a summons
issued on the application of one Henry J. Goldsmith and returnable next
day, for violating Section Two Hundred and Fifteen of Article Twelve of
Chapter Twenty of the Municipal Ordinances for keeping and maintaining a
certain bird, to wit, a cockatoo, which by its noise did disturb the
quiet and repose of a certain person in the vicinity to the detriment
of the health of such person, to wit, Henry J. Goldsmith, aforesaid, and
upon her failure to appear, and so on.

Wilfred had some sort of vague idea of a law about keeping birds, but he
couldn't exactly recall what it was. There was something incongruous
about Mrs. Pierpont Pumpelly keeping a cockatoo. What did anybody want
of a cockatoo? He concluded that it must be an ancestral hereditament
from Athens, Ohio. Nervously he ascended the stairs to what Edna called
the saloon.

"So you've come at last!" cried she. "Well, what have you got to say to
this? Is it against the law to go round a corner at more than four miles
an hour?"

Now, whereas Mr. Wilfred Edgerton could have told Mrs. Pumpelly the
"rule in Shelly's case" or explained the doctrine of _cy pres_, he had
never read the building code or the health ordinances or the traffic
regulations, and in the present instance the latter were to the point
while the former were not. Thus he was confronted with the disagreeable
alternative of admitting his ignorance or bluffing it through. He chose
the latter, unwisely.

"Of course not! Utter nonsense!" replied he blithely. "The lawful rate
of speed is at least fifteen miles an hour."

"Excuse me, madam," said James, appearing once more in the doorway. "A
man has just left this--er--paper at the area doorway."

Mrs. Pumpelly snatched it out of his hand.

"Well, of all things!" she gasped.

"To 'Bridget' Pumpelly," it began, "said first name 'Bridget' being
fictitious:

"You are hereby summoned to appear ... for violating Section Two
Hundred and Forty-eight of Article Twelve of Chapter Twenty of the
Health Ordinances in that you did upon the seventh day of May, 1920,
fail to keep a certain tin receptacle used for swill or garbage, in
shape and form a barrel, within the building occupied and owned by you
until proper time for its removal and failed to securely bundle, tie up
and pack the newspapers and other light refuse and rubbish contained
therein, and, further, that you caused and permitted certain tin
receptacles, in the shape and form of barrels, containing such swill or
garbage, to be filled to a greater height with such swill or garbage
than a line within such receptacle four inches from the top thereof."

"Now what do you know about that?" remarked the vice president of Cuban
Crucible to the senior partner of Edgerton & Edgerton.

"I don't know anything about it!" answered the elegant Wilfred
miserably. "I don't know the law of garbage, and there's no use
pretending that I do. You'd better get a garbage lawyer."

"I thought all lawyers were supposed to know the law!" sniffed Mrs.
Pumpelly. "What's that you got in your hand?"

"It's another summons, for keeping a bird," answered the attorney.

"A bird? You don't suppose it's Moses?" she exclaimed indignantly.

"The name of the bird isn't mentioned," said Wilfred. "But very likely
it is Moses if Moses belongs to you."

"But I've had Moses ever since I was a little girl!" she protested.
"And no one ever complained of him before."

"Beg pardon, madam," interposed Simmons, parting the Flemish arras, upon
which was depicted the sinking of the Spanish Armada. "Officer Roony is
back again with two more papers. 'E says it isn't necessary for him to
see you again, as once is enough, but 'e was wondering whether being as
it was rather chilly--"

"Lead him to it!" hastily directed Pierpont, who was beginning to get a
certain amount of enjoyment out of the situation. "But tell him he
needn't call again."

"Give 'em here!" snapped Mrs. Pumpelly, grasping the documents. "This is
a little too much! 'Lulu' this time. Fictitious as usual. Who's Julius
Aberthaw? He says I caused a certain rug to be shaken in such place and
manner that certain particles of dust passed therefrom into the public
street or highway, to wit, East Seventy-third Street, contrary to
Section Two Hundred and Fifty-three of Article Twelve of Chapter Twenty
of the Municipal Ordinances. Huh!"

"What's the other one?" inquired her husband with a show of sympathy.

"For violating Section Fifteen of Article Two of Chapter Twenty, in that
on May 7, 1920, I permitted a certain unmuzzled dog, to wit, a Pekingese
brown spaniel dog, to be on a public highway, to wit, East Seventy-third
Street in the City of New York. But that was Randolph!"

"Was Randolph muzzled?" inquired Mr. Edgerton maliciously.

"Of course not! He only weighs two pounds and a quarter!" protested Mrs.
Pumpelly.

"He can bite all right, just the same!" interpolated Pierpont.

"But what shall I do?" wailed Mrs. Pumpelly, now thoroughly upset.

"Guess you'll have to take your medicine, same's other violators of the
law," commented her husband.

"I never heard of such ridiculous laws!"

"Ignorance of the law excuses no one!" murmured Wilfred.

"It don't excuse a lawyer!" she snorted. "I have an idea you don't know
much more about the law--this kind of law, anyway--than I do. I bet it
is against the law to go round a corner at more than four miles! Do you
want to bet me?"

"No, I don't!" snapped Edgerton. "What you want is a police-court
lawyer--if you're goin' in for this sort of thing."

"My Lord! What's this now, Simmons?" she raved as the butler
deprecatingly made his appearance again with another paper.

"I think, madam," he answered soothingly, "that it's a summons for
allowing the house man to use the hose on the sidewalk after eight A.M.
Roony just brought it."

"H'm!" remarked Mr. Pumpelly. "Don't lead him to it again!"

"But I wouldn't have disturbed you if it hadn't been for a young
gentleman who 'as called with another one regardin' the window boxes."

The others, as a rule, do not show themselves until nightfall.

At some distance from the net they have a rough-and-ready retreat in
the brambles, an ambush made of a few leaves held together by stretched
threads.

It is here that, for the most part, they remain in the daytime,
motionless and sunk in meditation.

But the shrill light that vexes them is the joy of the fields.

At such times the Locust hops more nimbly than ever, more gaily
skims the Dragon-fly.

Besides, the limy web, despite the rents suffered during the night,
is still in serviceable condition. If some giddy-pate allow himself
to be caught, will the Spider, at the distance whereto she has retired,
be unable to take advantage of the windfall? Never fear. She arrives
in a flash. How is she apprised? Let us explain the matter.

The alarm is given by the vibration of the web, much more than by the
sight of the captured object. A very simple experiment will prove
this.

I lay upon a Banded Epeira's lime-threads a Locust that second asphyxiated
with carbon disulphide.

The carcass is placed in front, or behind, or at either side of the
Spider, who sits moveless in the centre of the net.

If the test is to be applied to a species with a daytime hiding-place
amid the foliage, the dead Locust is laid on the web, more or less
near the centre, no matter how.

In both cases, nothing happens at first.

The Epeira remains in her motionless attitude, even when the morsel
is at a short distance in front of her.

She is indifferent to the presence of the game, does not seem to
perceive it, so much so that she ends by wearing out my patience.

Then, with a long straw, which enables me to conceal myself slightly, I
set the dead insect trembling.

That is quite enough.

The Banded Epeira and the Silky Epeira hasten to the central floor;
the others come down from the branch; all go to the Locust, swathe
him with tape, treat him, in short, as they would treat a live prey
captured under normal conditions.

It took the shaking of the web to decide them to attack.

Perhaps the grey colour of the Locust is not sufficiently conspicuous to
attract attention by itself. Then let us try red, the brightest colour
to our retina and probably also to the Spiders'. None of the game hunted
by the Epeirae being clad in scarlet, I make a small bundle out
of red wool, a bait of the size of a Locust.

I glue it to the web.

My stratagem succeeds. As long as the parcel is stationary, the Spider
is not roused; but, the moment it trembles, stirred by my straw,
she runs up eagerly.

There are silly ones who just touch the thing with their legs and, without
further enquiries, swathe it in silk after the manner of the usual game.
They even go so far as to dig their fangs into the bait, following
the rule of the preliminary poisoning.

Then and then only the mistake is recognized and the tricked Spider
retires and does not come back, unless it be long afterwards, when
she flings the lumbersome object out of the web.

There are also clever ones.

Like the others, these hasten to the red-woollen lure, which my straw
insidiously keeps moving; they come from their tent among the leaves
as readily as from the centre of the web; they explore it with their
palpi and their legs; but, soon perceiving that the thing is valueless,
they are careful not to spend their silk on useless bonds.

My quivering bait does not deceive them.

It is flung out after a brief inspection.

Still, the clever ones, like the silly ones, run even from a distance,
from their leafy ambush. How do they know? Certainly not by sight. Before
recognizing their mistake, they have to hold the object between
their legs and even to nibble at it a little.

They are extremely short-sighted. At a hand's-breadth's distance, the
lifeless prey, unable to shake the web, remains unperceived.

Besides, in many cases, the hunting takes place in the dense darkness
of the night, when sight, even if it were good, would not avail.

If the eyes are insufficient guides, even close at hand, how will it be
when the prey has to be spied from afar? In that case, an intelligence
apparatus for long-distance work becomes indispensable.

We have no difficulty in detecting the apparatus.

Let us look attentively behind the web of any Epeira with a daytime
hiding-place: we shall see a thread that starts from the centre of
the network, ascends in a slanting line outside the plane of the
web and ends at the ambush where the Spider lurks all day.

Except at the central point, there is no connection between this thread
and the rest of the work, no interweaving with the scaffolding-threads.
Free of impediment, the line runs straight from the centre of the
net to the ambush-tent.

Its length averages twenty-two inches.

The Angular Epeira, settled high up in the trees, has shown me some
as long as eight or nine feet.

There is no doubt that this slanting line is a foot-bridge which
allows the Spider to repair hurriedly to the web, when summoned by
urgent business, and then, when her round is finished, to return
to her hut.

In fact, it is the road which I see her follow, in going and coming. But
is that all? No; for, if the Epeira had no aim in view but a means
of rapid transit between her tent and the net, the foot-bridge
would be fastened to the upper edge of the web.

The journey would be shorter and the slope less steep.

Why, moreover, does this line always start in the centre of the sticky
network and nowhere else?

Because that is the point where the spokes meet and, therefore, the
common centre of vibration. Anything that moves upon the web sets
it shaking.

All then that is needed is a thread issuing from this central point
to convey to a distance the news of a prey struggling in some part
or other of the net.

The slanting cord, extending outside the plane of the web, is more than a
foot-bridge: it is, above all, a signalling-apparatus, a
telegraph-wire.

Let us try experiment. I place a Locust on the network. Caught in
the sticky toils, he plunges about.

Forthwith, the Spider issues impetuously from her hut, comes down
the foot-bridge, makes a rush for the Locust, wraps him up and
operates on him according to rule.

Soon after, she hoists him, fastened by a line to her spinneret, and
drags him to her hiding-place, where a long banquet will be held. So far,
nothing new: things happen as usual.

I leave the Spider to mind her own affairs for some days before I
interfere with her.

I again propose to give her a Locust; but this time I first cut the
signalling-thread with a touch of the scissors, without shaking any
part of the edifice.

The game is then laid on the web.

  Complete success: the entangled insect struggles,
   sets the net quivering; the Spider, on her side,
      does not stir, as though heedless of events.

The idea might occur to one that, in this business, the Epeira stays
motionless in her cabin since she is prevented from hurrying down,
because the foot-bridge is broken. Let us undeceive ourselves: for
one road open to her there are a hundred, all ready to bring her to the
place where her presence is now required. The network is fastened to the
branches by a host of lines, all of them very easy to cross. Well, the
Epeira embarks upon none of them, but remains moveless and
self-absorbed.

Why? Because her telegraph, being out of order, no longer tells her of
the shaking of the web. The captured prey is too far off for her to see
it; she is all unwitting. A good hour passes, with the Locust still
kicking, the Spider impassive, myself watching. Nevertheless, in the end,
the Epeira wakes up: no longer feeling the signalling-thread, broken
by my scissors, as taut as usual under her legs, she comes to look into
the state of things. The web is reached, without the least difficulty,
by one of the lines of the framework, the first that offers. The
Locust is then perceived and forthwith enswathed, after which the
signalling-thread is remade, taking the place of the one which I have
broken.

Along this road the Spider goes home, dragging her prey behind her.

My neighbour, the mighty Angular Epeira, with her telegraph-wire nine
feet long, has even better things in store for me. One morning I find
her web, which is now deserted, almost intact, a proof that the
night's hunting has not been good.

The animal must be hungry. With a piece of game for a bait, I hope to
bring her down from her lofty retreat.

I entangle in the web a rare morsel, a Dragon-fly, who struggles
desperately and sets the whole net a-shaking. The other, up above,
leaves her lurking-place amid the cypress-foliage, strides swiftly down
along her telegraph-wire, comes to the Dragon-fly, trusses her and at
once climbs home again by the same road, with her prize dangling at her
heels by a thread. The final sacrifice will take place in the quiet
of the leafy sanctuary.

A few days later I renew my experiment under the same conditions,
but, this time, I first cut the signalling-thread.

In vain I select a large Dragon-fly, a very restless prisoner; in vain
I exert my patience: the Spider does not come down all day. Her telegraph
being broken, she receives no notice of what is happening nine feet
below. The entangled morsel remains where it lies, not despised, but
unknown. At nightfall the Epeira leaves her cabin, passes over the ruins
of her web, finds the Dragon-fly and eats him on the spot, after which
the net is renewed.

The Epeirae, who occupy a distant retreat by day, cannot do without a
private wire that keeps them in permanent communication with the
deserted web. All of them have one, in point of fact, but only when
age comes, age prone to rest and to long slumbers. In their youth, the
Epeirae, who are then very wide awake, know nothing of the art of
telegraphy. Besides, their web, a short-lived work whereof hardly a trace
remains on the morrow, does not allow of this kind of industry. It is
no use going to the expense of a signalling-apparatus for a ruined
snare wherein nothing can now be caught.

Only the old Spiders, meditating or dozing in their green tent, are
warned from afar, by telegraph, of what takes place on the web.

To save herself from keeping a close watch that would degenerate into
drudgery and to remain alive to events even when resting, with her back
turned on the net, the ambushed Spider always has her foot upon the
telegraph-wire. Of my observations on this subject, let me relate the
following, which will be sufficient for our purpose.

An Angular Epeira, with a remarkably fine belly, has spun her web between
two laurustine-shrubs, covering a width of nearly a yard. The sun beats
upon the snare, which is abandoned long before dawn. The Spider
is in her day manor, a resort easily discovered by following the
telegraph-wire. It is a vaulted chamber of dead leaves, joined together
with a few bits of silk. The refuge is deep: the Spider disappears in it
entirely, all but her rounded hind-quarters, which bar the entrance to
her donjon.

With her front half plunged into the back of her hut, the Epeira certainly
cannot see her web. Even if she had good sight, instead of being purblind,
her position could not possibly allow her to keep the prey in view.
Does she give up hunting during this period of bright sunlight? Not at
all. Look again.

Wonderful! One of her hind-legs is stretched outside the leafy cabin;
and the signalling-thread ends just at the tip of that leg. Whoso has not
seen the Epeira in this attitude, with her hand, so to speak, on the
telegraph-receiver, knows nothing of one of the most curious instances
of animal cleverness. Let any game appear upon the scene; and the
slumberer, forthwith aroused by means of the leg receiving the
vibrations, hastens up.

A Locust whom I myself lay on the web procures her this agreeable shock
and what follows. If she is satisfied with her bag, I am still more
satisfied with what I have learnt.

One word more. The web is often shaken by the wind. The different parts
of the framework, tossed and teased by the eddying air-currents, cannot
fail to transmit their vibration to the signalling-thread. Nevertheless,
the Spider does not quit her hut and remains indifferent to the commotion
prevailing in the net. Her line, therefore, is something better than
a bell-rope that pulls and communicates the impulse given: it is a telephone
capable, like our own, of transmitting infinitesimal waves of sound.

Clutching her telephone-wire with a toe, the Spider listens with her
leg; she perceives the innermost vibrations; she distinguishes between
the vibration proceeding from a prisoner and the mere shaking caused by
the wind.

CHAPTER 11. THE EUMENES.

A wasp-like garb of motley black and yellow; a slender and graceful figure;
wings not spread out flat, when resting, but folded lengthwise in two;
the abdomen a sort of chemist's retort, which swells into a gourd and
is fastened to the thorax by a long neck, first distending into a
pear, then shrinking to a thread; a leisurely and silent flight;
lonely habits.

There we have a summary sketch of the Eumenes. My part of the country
possesses two species: the larger, Eumenes Amedei, Lep., measures
nearly an inch in length; the other, Eumenes pomiformis, Fabr., is
a reduction of the first to the scale of one-half.

(I include three species promiscuously under this one name, that
is to say, Eumenes pomiformis, Fabr., E. bipunctis, Sauss., and E.
dubius, Sauss.

As I did not distinguish between them in my first investigations, which
date a very long time back, it is not possible for me to ascribe to each
of them its respective nest. But their habits are the same, for which
reason this confusion does not injuriously affect the order of
ideas in the present chapter.

--Author's Note.)

Similar in form and colouring, both possess a like talent for
architecture; and this talent is expressed in a work of the highest
perfection which charms the most untutored eye.

Their dwelling is a masterpiece. The Eumenes follow the profession
of arms, which is unfavourable to artistic effort; they stab a prey with
their sting; they pillage and plunder.

They are predatory Hymenoptera, victualling their grubs with caterpillars.
It will be interesting to compare their habits with those of the
operator on the Grey Worm.

(Ammophila hirsuta, who hunts the Grey Worm, the caterpillar of
Noctua segetum, the Dart or Turnip Moth.--Translator's Note.)

Though the quarry--caterpillars in either case--remain the same, perhaps
instinct, which is liable to vary with the species, has fresh glimpses
in store for us.

Besides, the edifice built by the Eumenes in itself deserves inspection.

The Hunting Wasps whose story we have described in former volumes
are wonderfully well versed in the art of wielding the lancet; they
astound us with their surgical methods, which they seem to have
learnt from some physiologist who allows nothing to escape him; but
those skilful slayers have no merit as builders of dwelling-houses.

What is their home, in point of fact? An underground passage, with a cell
at the end of it; a gallery, an excavation, a shapeless cave. It is
miner's work, navvy's work: vigorous sometimes, artistic never.

They use the pick-axe for loosening, the crowbar for shifting, the rake
for extracting the materials, but never the trowel for laying. Now in
the Eumenes we see real masons, who build their houses bit by bit with
stone and mortar and run them up in the open, either on the firm rock
or on the shaky support of a bough. Hunting alternates with architecture;
the insect is a Nimrod or a Vitruvius by turns.

(Marcus Vitruvius Pollio, the Roman architect and engineer.--Translator's
Note.)

And, first of all, what sites do these builders select for their
homes?

Should you pass some little garden-wall, facing south, in a
sun-scorched corner, look at the stones that are not covered with
plaster, look at them one by one, especially the largest; examine
the masses of boulders, at no great height from the ground, where
the fierce rays have heated them to the temperature of a Turkish
bath; and, perhaps, if you seek long enough, you will light upon
the structure of Eumenes Amedei.

The insect is scarce and lives apart; a meeting is an event upon which
we must not count with too great confidence. It is an African species
and loves the heat that ripens the carob and the date.

It haunts the sunniest spots and selects rocks or firm stones as a
foundation for its nest.

Sometimes also, but seldom, it copies the Chalicodoma of the Walls and
builds upon an ordinary pebble. (Or Mason-bee.--Translator's Note.)

Eumenes pomiformis is much more common and is comparatively indifferent
to the nature of the foundation whereon she erects her cells. She builds
on walls, on isolated stones, on the wood of the inner surface of
half-closed shutters; or else she adopts an aerial base, the slender
twig of a shrub, the withered sprig of a plant of some sort.

Any form of support serves her purpose. Nor does she trouble about
shelter.

Less chilly than her African cousin, she does not shun the unprotected
spaces exposed to every wind that blows.

When erected on a horizontal surface, where nothing interferes with
it, the structure of Eumenes Amedei is a symmetrical cupola, a
spherical skull-cap, with, at the top, a narrow passage just wide
enough for the insect, and surmounted by a neatly funnelled neck.

It suggests the round hut of the Eskimo or of the ancient Gael, with
its central chimney. Two centimetres and a half (.97 inch.--Translator's
Note.), more or less, represent the diameter, and two centimetres
the height. (.78 inch.

--Translator's Note.) When the support is a perpendicular plane, the
building still retains the domed shape, but the entrance- and
exit-funnel opens at the side, upwards.

The floor of this apartment calls for no labour: it is supplied direct
by the bare stone.

Having chosen the site, the builder erects a circular fence about three
millimetres thick. (.118 inch.--Translator's Note.) The materials consist
of mortar and small stones. The insect selects its stone-quarry in some
well-trodden path, on some neighbouring road, at the driest, hardest
spots.

  With its
  mandibles,
  it scrapes together
  a small quantity of dust and saturates it with saliva until the
whole becomes a regular hydraulic mortar which soon sets and is no
longer susceptible to water.

The Mason-bees have shown us a similar exploitation of the beaten
paths and of the road-mender's macadam.

All these open-air builders, all these erectors of monuments exposed
to wind and weather require an exceedingly dry stone-dust; otherwise
the material, already moistened with water, would not properly
absorb the liquid that is to give it cohesion; and the edifice would
soon be wrecked by the rains.

They possess the sense of discrimination of the plasterer, who rejects
plaster injured by damp. We shall see presently how the insects that
build under shelter avoid this laborious macadam-scraping and give
the preference to fresh earth already reduced to a paste by its own
dampness.

       When common lime answers our purpose, we do not trouble about Roman
cement.

Now Eumenes Amedei requires a first-class cement, even better than
that of the Chalicodoma of the Walls, for the work, when finished,
does not receive the thick covering wherewith the Mason-bee protects
her cluster of cells. And therefore the cupola-builder, as
often as she can, uses the highway as her stone-pit.

With the mortar, flints are needed.

These are bits of gravel of an almost unvarying size--that of a peppercorn--but
of a shape and kind differing greatly, according to the places
worked.

Some are sharp-cornered, with facets determined by chance fractures;
some are round, polished by friction under water.

Some are of limestone, others of silicic matter. The favourite stones,
when the neighbourhood of the nest permits, are little nodules of
quartz, smooth and semitransparent.

These are selected with minute care. The insect weighs them, so to say,
measures them with the compass of its mandibles and does not accept
them until after recognizing in them the requisite qualities of size and
hardness.

A circular fence, we were saying, is begun on the bare rock.

Before the mortar sets, which does not take long, the mason sticks
a few stones into the soft mass, as the work advances.

She dabs them half-way into the cement, so as to leave them jutting out
to a large extent, without penetrating to the inside, where the wall
must remain smooth for the sake of the larva's comfort. If necessary, a
little plaster is added, to tone down the inner protuberances.

The solidly embedded stonework alternates with the pure mortarwork, of
which each fresh course receives its facing of tiny encrusted pebbles.
As the edifice is raised, the builder slopes the construction a little
towards the centre and fashions the curve which will give the spherical
shape.

We employ arched centrings to support the masonry of a dome while building:
the Eumenes, more daring than we, erects her cupola without any
scaffolding.

A round orifice is contrived at the summit; and, on this orifice, rises a
funnelled mouthpiece built of pure cement. It might be the graceful
neck of some Etruscan vase. When the cell is victualled and the egg
laid, this mouthpiece is closed with a cement plug; and in this
plug is set a little pebble, one alone, no more: the ritual never
varies.

       This work of rustic architecture has naught to fear from the
inclemency of the weather; it does not yield to the pressure of the
fingers; it resists the knife that attempts to remove it without
breaking it.

Its nipple shape and the bits of gravel wherewith it bristles all over
the outside remind one of certain cromlechs of olden time, of certain
tumuli whose domes are strewn with Cyclopean stones.

Such is the appearance of the edifice when the cell stands alone;
but the Hymenopteron nearly always fixes other domes against her
first, to the number of five, six, or more.

This shortens the labour by allowing her to use the same partition for two
adjoining rooms.
Tutt to hurry off to the Tombs and bail out old Danny Lowry, a
self-confessed lawbreaker, giving his own bond and the house on
Twenty-third Street as security. Still more so, as more unblushingly
ostentatious, was his taking the criminal over to Pont's and giving him
the very best dinner that Signor Faccini, proprietor of that celebrated
hostelry, could purvey.

Hard cases are said to make bad law; I wonder if they make bad people.
If "conscience makes cowards of us all" does human sympathy play ducks
and drakes with conscience? Does it blind the eye of reason? Rather,
does it not illumine and expose the fallacies of logic and the falsities
of the syllogism? Do two and two make four in human polity as in
mathematics? Sometimes it would not seem so.

Certainly you would have picked Mr. Bently Gibson, of The Gibson Woolen
Mills, as a model juror. One look at him as a prospective talesman in a
murder case and you would have unhesitatingly murmured, "The defense
challenges peremptorily!" His broad forehead, large well-shaped nose,
firm chin and clear calm eye evidenced his common sense, his
conscientiousness and his uncompromising adherence to principle. His
customs declarations were complete to the smallest item, his income-tax
returns models of self-sacrifice, he was patriotic and civic, he
belonged to the Welfare League and the Citizens' Union, and--I hesitate
to confess it--he subscribed to the annual deficit of the Society for
the Suppression of Sin. On the face of it, he was the kind of man the
district attorney tries to select as foreman of a jury when he has to
prosecute a woman who had kidnaped her own child out of a foundling
asylum.

The heelers and hangers-on of the criminal courts would have described
him as a highbrow and as a holier-than-thou; perhaps he might in a
moment of jocularity have even so described himself--for he had his
human--perhaps I should have said, his weaker--side. Surely he seemed
human enough when he kissed Eleanor good-by at the door of their country
place on the Sound the morning he had been subpoenaed to serve as a
juryman in Part Five of the General Sessions. He had planned to take a
week's holiday that spring, and he had gone to infinite trouble to
arrange his business in order to have it, for they had become engaged
eleven years before at the moment when the apple blossoms and the
dogwoods were at the height of their glory, even as they were now.

When, however, he found the brown subpoena at his office directing him
to present himself for service the following Monday he simply gave a
half sigh, half grunt of disgust, and let the longed-for vacation go;
for one of his pet theories was that the jury system was the chief
bulwark of the Constitution, the cornerstone of liberty. Had he only
been disingenuous enough he need never have served on any jury, for no
lawyer for the defense hearing him enlarge on what he considered the
duties of a juryman to be, would ever have allowed him in the box. But
when other chaps on the panel presented their excuses to the judge and
managed to persuade him of the imperative needs of family or business,
and slipped--grinning discreetly--out of the court room, he merely
inaudibly called them welshers and pikers. No, he regarded jury service
as a duty and a privilege, one not to be lightly avoided--the one common
garden governmental function in which Uncle Sam expected every citizen
to do his duty.

"I won't let any of the rogues get by me!" he shouted gaily to his wife
over the back of the motor. "And anyhow I shan't be locked up all night.
There aren't any murder cases on the calendar. I'll be out on the
five-fifteen as usual."

Alas, poor Bently! Alas for human frailty and all those splendid
visions in which he pictured himself as the anchor of the ship of
justice, a prop and stay of the structure of democracy.

His train was a trifle late and the roll of the jury had already been
called, and the perennial excuses heard, when he entered the court room;
but the clerk, who knew him, nodded in a welcoming manner, checked him
off as present and dropped his name card in the revolving wheel. It was
a well-known scene to Bently, a veteran of fifteen years' service. Even
the actors were familiar friends--the pink-faced judge with his
snow-white whiskers, who at times suggested to Bently an octogenarian
angel, and, at others, a certain ancient baboon once observed in the
Primates cage at the Bronz Zoo; the harried, anxious little clerk with
his paradoxically grandiloquent intonation; the comedy assistant
district attorney with his wheezy voice emanating from a Falstaffian
body, who suffered from a soporific malady and was accustomed to open a
case and then let it take care of itself while he slumbered audibly
beneath the dais; even Ephraim Tutt, the gaunt, benignly
whimsical-looking attorney, in his rusty-black frock coat and
loose-hanging tie; his rotund partner, whose birdlike briskness and fat
paunch inevitably brought to mind a distended robin in specs; and the
_dégagé_ Bonnie Doon in his cut-in-at-the-waist checked suit--he knew
them all of old.

"Well, call your first case, Mister District Attorney!" directed the
judge, nodding encouragingly at Bently, well knowing that in him he had
a staunch upholder of the law-as-it-is, who could be depended upon to
bolster up his weaker or more sentimental brother talesmen into the
proper convicting attitude of mind.

Then--as per the schedule in force for at least an epoch--good-natured,
pot-bellied Tom Hingman, the oldest A.D.A. in the office, rose heavily,
fumbled with his stubby fingers among the blue indictments on the table,
drew one forth, panted a few times, gasped out "People against Daniel
Lowry," and looked round in a pseudo-helpless way as if not knowing
exactly what to do.

There was a slight stir, and from the back of the court room came
forward a funny little bow-legged old man, carrying in both hands a
funny little flat-topped derby hat, and took his seat timidly at the bar
of justice beside Mr. Tutt, who smiled down at him affectionately and
put his arm about the threadbare shoulders as if to protect him from the
evils of the world. They made a quaint and far from unpleasing picture,
thought Bently Gibson, the ideal juror, and he wondered what the poor
old devil could be up for.

A jury was impaneled, Bently among them; the balance of the panel was
excused until two o'clock; the court room was cleared of loafers; the
judge perused the indictment with a practised eye; Tom Hingman rose
again, wheezed and grinned at the embattled jury; and the mill of
justice began to grind.

Now the mill of justice, at least in the General Sessions of New York
County, grinds exceeding fine, so far as the number of convictions is
concerned. Of those brought to the bar for trial few escape; for modern
talesmen, being hard-headed men, regard the whole thing as a matter of
business and try to get through with it as quickly and as efficiently as
possible. The bombastic spread-eagle orator, the grandiloquent gas bag,
the highfaluting stump speaker gain few verdicts and win small applause
except from their clients. And district attorneys who ape the bloodhound
in their mien and tactics win scant approval and less acquiescence from
the bored gentlemen who are forced to listen to them. Nowadays--whatever
may have been the case two generations ago--each side briefly states its
claims and tries to win on points.

People were apt to wonder why each succeeding administration inevitably
retained stuffy old Tom Hingman at seventy-five hundred dollars a year
to handle the calendar in Part Five. Yet those on the inside knew why
very well. It was because Tom long ago, in his prehistoric youth, had
learned that the way to secure verdicts was to appear not to care a
tinker's dam whether the jury found the defendant guilty or not. He
pretended never to know anything about any case in advance, to be in
complete ignorance as to who the witnesses might be and to what they
were going to testify, and to be terribly sorry to have to prosecute the
unfortunate at the bar, though he wasn't to blame for that any more than
the jury were for having to find him guilty if proven to be so, which,
it seemed to him, he had been clearly proven to be. I say Tom pretended
all this, yet it was more than half true, for Tom was a kind-hearted old
bird. But the point was that, whether true or not, it got convictions.
The jury sucking it all up in its entirety felt sorrier for the
simple-minded old softy of a Tom, which they believed him to be, than
they did for the defendant, who they concluded was a good deal cleverer
than the assistant district attorney.

In a word, it put them on their honor as public officers not to let the
administration of justice suffer merely because the A.D.A. was too old
and easy-going and generally slab-sided to be really on his job. Thus,
they became prosecuting attorneys themselves--in all, thirteen to one.
So Tom, having thus delegated his functions to the jury, calmly left it
all to them and went to sleep, which was the best thing that he did.
Worth seventy-five hundred a year? Rather, seventy-five thousand!

"Gentlemen of the jury," he began haltingly, "this defendant seems to
have been indicted for the crime of practising medicine without a
license--a misdemeanor. I don't see exactly how he gets into this court,
which is supposed to try only felony cases, but I assume my old friend
Tutt made a motion to transfer the case from the Special to the General
Sessions on the theory that he would stand more chance with a jury than
three--er--hardened judges. Well, maybe he will--I don't know! I gather
from the papers that Mr. Lowry here, after holding himself out to be a
properly licensed veterinary, treated a horse belonging to the
complainant. It is not a very serious offense, and you and I have no
great interest in the case, but of course the public has got to be
protected from charlatans, and the only way to do it is to brand as
guilty those who pretend they are duly licensed to practise medicine
when they are not. If you had a sick baby, Mr. Foreman, and you saw a
sign 'A.S. Smith, M.D., Children's Specialist,' you would want to be
sure you were not going to hire a plumber, eh? You see! That's all there
is to this case!"

"All there is to this case!" murmured Mr. Tutt audibly, raising his eyes
ceilingward.

"Step up here, Mr. Brown."

Mr. Brown, the supposed Doctor Simon whose horse Danny had attended,
seated himself complacently in the witness chair and bowed to the jury
in a professional manner. He had, he told them, been a detective
employed by the state board of health for over sixteen years. It was his
duty to go round and arrest people who pretended to be licensed
practitioners of medicine and assumed to doctor other people and
animals. There were a lot of 'em, too; the jury would be surprised--

Mr. Tutt objected to their surprise and it was stricken out by order of
the court.

"I'll strike out 'and there are a lot of 'em, too,' if you say so, Mr.
Tutt," offered the court, smiling, but Mr. Tutt shook his head.

"No; let it stand!" said he significantly. "Let it stand!"

"Well, anyway," continued Mr. Brown, "this here defendant Lowry, as he
calls himself, is well known--"

Objected to and struck out.

"Well, this here defendant makes a practise--"

"Strike it out! What did he do?" snapped the octogenarian baboon on the
bench.

"I'm tellin' you, judge," protested Brown vigorously. "This here
defendant--"

"You've said that three times!" retorted the baboon. "Get along, can't
you? What did he do?"

"He treated my horse for spavin here in New York at 500 West 24th Street
at my request on the twentieth of last March and I paid him five
dollars. He said he was a licensed veterinary and he gave me his card.
Here it is."

"Well, why didn't you say so before?" remarked the judge more amiably.
"Let me see the card. All right! Anything more, Mr. Hingman?"

But Mr. Hingman had long before this subsided into his chair and was
emitting sounds like those from a saxophone.

"That is plain, simple testimony, Mr. Tutt," remarked the judge. "Go
ahead and cross-examine."

Ephraim Tutt slowly unjointed himself, the quintessence of affability,
though Mr. Brown clearly held him under suspicion.

"How long have you earned your living, my dear sir, by going round
arresting people?"

"Sixteen years."

"Under what name--your own?"

"I use any name I feel like."

Mr. Tutt nodded appreciatively.

"Let us see, then. You go about pretending to be somebody you are not?"

"Put it that way, if you choose."

"And pretending to be what you are not?"

Mr. Brown eyed Mr. Tutt savagely. "What do you mean by that?"

"Didn't you tell this old gentleman beside me that you were a doctor of
medicine but not a doctor of veterinary medicine--and beg him to treat
your horse for that reason?"

"Sure I did. Certainly."

"Well, are you a licensed medical practitioner?"

"Look here! What's that got to do with it?" snarled Mr. Brown, looking
about for aid from the sleeping Hingman.

"The question is a proper one. Answer it," directed the judge.

"No, I'm not a licensed doctor."

"Well, didn't you treat Mr. Lowry?"

The jury by this time had caught the drift of the examination and were
listening with intent appreciation.

Mr. Brown leaned forward, a sickening smile of sneering superiority
curling about his yellow molars.

"Ah!" he cried. "That's where I have you, sir! I only pretended to treat
him. I didn't really. I only scribbled something on a piece of paper."

"You knew he couldn't read, of course?"

"Sure."

Mr. Tutt turned to the uplifted faces of the twelve. "So," he retorted,
pursing his wrinkled lips and placing his fingers together in that
attitude of piety which we frequently observe upon effigies of defunct
ecclesiastics--"so you did the very thing for which you threw this old
man at my side into jail--and for which he is now on trial! You lied to
him about being a doctor! You deceived him about giving him the medical
treatment he so much needed! And you arrested him after he had worked
for hours to relieve the sufferings of a sick animal. By the way, it was
a sick animal, wasn't it?"

"The sickest I could find," replied Brown airily.

"And he did relieve its sufferings, did he not?" continued Mr. Tutt
gently.

"Very likely. I wasn't particularly interested in that end of it."

Mr. Tutt's meager frame seemed suddenly to expand until he hung over the
witness chair like the genii who mushroomed so unexpectedly out of the
fisherman's bottle in the Arabian Nights Entertainments.

"You were not interested in ministering to a poor horse, so sick it
could hardly stand! You were only interested in imprisoning and
depriving of his only form of livelihood this old man whose heart was
not hardened like yours! May I ask at whose instance you went and lied
to him?"

"Mr. Tutt! Mr. Tutt!" interjected the octogenarian angel. "Your
examination is exceeding the bounds of judicial propriety."

Ephraim Tutt bowed low.

"A thousand pardons, Your Honor! My emotions swept me away! I most
humbly apologize! But when this witness so unblushingly confesses how he
played the scoundrel's part, aged case hardened practitioner as I am, my
heart cries out against such infamous treachery--"

Bang! went the judge's gavel.

"You are only making it worse!" declared the court severely. "Proceed
with your examination."

"Very well, Your Honor!" replied Mr. Tutt, his lips trembling with
well-simulated indignation. "Now, sir, who instigated this miserable
deception--I beg Your Honor's pardon! Who put you up to this game--I
mean, this course of conduct?"

"Nobody," replied Brown in a surly tone.

"Did you ever hear of the United Association of Veterinaries of the
Greater City of New York--sometimes referred to as The Horse Leeches'
Union?" asked Mr. Tutt insinuatingly.

Mr. Brown hesitated.

"I've heard of some such organization," he admitted. "But I never heard
it was called a Horse Leeches' Union."

"Didn't one of its officers come to you and say that unless something
was done to reduce competition they'd have to go out of business--owing
to the decrease in horses in New York?"

"I don't remember," answered Brown slowly. "One of 'em may have said
something of the sort to me. But that's my business!"

"Yes!" roared Mr. Tutt suddenly. "It's your business to pretend you're a
doctor when you're not, and you walk the streets a free man; and you
want to send my client to Sing Sing for the same offense! That is all! I
am done with you! Get down off the stand! Do not let me detain you from
the practise of your unlicensed profession!"

"Mr. Tutt!" again admonished His Honor as the lawyer threw himself
angrily into his chair. "This really won't do at all!"

"I beg Your Honor's pardon--a thousand times!" said Mr. Tutt in tones so
humble and sincere that he almost made the angel-faced baboon believe
him.

I should like to go on and describe the whole course of Danny Lowry's
trial item by item, witness by witness, and tell what Mr. Tutt did to
each. But I can't; there isn't room. I can only dwell upon the tactics
of Mr. Tutt long enough to state that at the conclusion of the case
against Daniel Lowry, wherein it was clearly, definitely and
convincingly established that Danny had been practising veterinary
medicine for a long time without the faintest legal right, the lawyer
rose and declared emphatically to the jury that his client was
absolutely, totally and unquestionably innocent, as they would see by
giving proper attention to the evidence he would produce--so that he
would not take up any more of their valuable time in talk.

And having made this opening statement with all the earnestness and
solemnity of which he was capable Mr. Tutt called to prove the
defendant's good reputation, first, Father Plunkett, the priest to whom
Danny made his monthly confession and who told the jury that he knew no
better man in all his parish; second, Mulqueen, who described Danny's
love of horses, his knowledge of them, his mysterious intuition
concerning their hidden ailments, which, being as they could not speak,
it was given to few to know, and how night after night he would sit up
with a sick or dying animal to relieve its pain without thought of
himself or of any earthly reward; then, man after man and woman after
woman from the neighborhood of West Twenty-third Street who gave Danny
the best of characters, including policemen, firemen, delicatessens,
hotel keepers, and Salvatore, the proprietor of the night lunch
frequented by Mr. Tutt.

And last of all little Katie Lowry. It was she who found the crack in
Bently's moral armor. For Eleanor his wife was of Irish ancestry and of
the colleen type, like Katie; and Bently had always played up to her
Irish side when courting her as a humorous short cut to a quasi
familiarity, for you may call a girl "acushla" and "Ellin darlint" when
otherwise you are fully aware, but for the Irish of it, she would have
to be referred to as Miss Dodworth. And this wisp of a girl with her big
black-fringed gray eyes peering up and out over her gray knitted shawl,
but for the holes in her white stockings and the fact that the alabaster
of her neck was a shade off color--faith, an' it might have been
Eleanor hersilf! It is obvious that any juryman who allows his mind to
be influenced by the mere fact that one of the witnesses for the defense
is a pretty woman--even if she recalls to him his wife or
sweet-heart--is a poor weakling, a silly ass.

Otherwise all a crook need do would be to hire a half dozen of
Ziegfeld's midnight beauties to testify for him by day; and the slender
darlings could work in double shifts and be whisked in auto busses from
roof garden to court room. Bently was no weakling, but Katie--perhaps
because it was the moment of apple blossoms and dogwood and the
anniversary of his wedding day--Katie got him. Kathleen Mavourneen, and
all! No man could have brought up a fatherless and motherless girl like
that and keep her so simple, frank and innocent unless there was
something fine about him. You see, highbrows and lowbrows are all alike
below the collar bone.

And here's the catch in it. Bently had told Eleanor that very morning
that none of the rogues would get by him, and he had meant it. None of
them ever had--in all his years of jury service. Time and again he had
been the one stubborn man to hang out all night for a verdict of guilty
against eleven outraged and indignant fellow talesmen who wanted to
acquit. But quite unconsciously he found himself saying that this old
fellow at the bar wasn't a rogue at all. If he was a criminal he was so
at most only in a Pickwickian sense. All the previous cases in which he
had sat had been for murder or arson, robbery or theft, burglary,
blackmail or some other outrageous offense against common morals or
decency. But here was a man who had never done anything but good in his
life, and was at the bar of justice charged with crime merely because
some cold-blooded mercenaries thought he was interfering with their
business! Bently was in a recalcitrant and indignant frame of mind
against the prosecution long before the defense began. The whole
proceeding seemed to him an outrageous farce. That wasn't what they were
there for at all! So swiftly does the acid of sympathy corrode and
weaken the stoutest conscience, the most logical of minds!

Mr. Tutt did not put Danny on the stand--why should he?--and the
octogenarian judge declared the case closed on both sides. Then
everybody made a speech, in which he told the jury to disregard
everything everybody else said.

Mr. Tutt spoke first. He thanked the gaping jury for their attention and
courtesy and kindness and intelligence and for taking the trouble to
listen to him. He told them what a wise and upright judge the old baboon
on the bench was; and what a sterling, honest, kindly chap the fat
assistant district attorney really was. They were the highest type of
public officers--but paid--he accentuated the "paid" very slightly--to
do their duty as they interpreted it. Now, Mr. Hingman would have to
claim that Danny Lowry was a criminal; whereas, thank heaven! they all
of them--every man of them--knew he was nothing of the kind!
Criminal--that old man? Mr. Tutt raised his eyes and his arms to heaven
in protest. Why, one look at him would create a reasonable doubt! But
the case against him failed absolutely for the following reasons:

Daniel Lowry had not practised veterinary medicine without a license in
taking care of Brown's sick horse, because he had not claimed to be a
veterinary; he had not been paid for his services; and because all he
had done was to help a suffering animal, as any man who called himself a
Christian and had a heart would have done, and as it was his duty to do.
Who "shall have an ass or an ox fallen into a pit"? and so on. It was in
Holy Writ! The highest law!

There was no evidence against Danny at all, because Brown was an
accomplice and his testimony was not corroborated; at any rate he was a
procurer and instigator of crime, an _agent provocateur_, a despicable
liar, hypocrite and violator of the very law he was paid to uphold; and
as he had held himself out as a physician to Danny Lowry everything that
passed between them was privileged as a confidential communication and
must be disregarded as if it had never been said.

Daniel Lowry was a man of the highest reputation, of such character that
he never had been guilty of an unkind or selfish act in his entire life,
much less commit crime; which alone, taken by itself, was quite enough
to interject and raise a reasonable doubt--upon which they must acquit.

Then Tom Hingman got up and grimaced and said he had known Mr. Tutt all
his professional life and he was a peach, but they mustn't believe what
he said or let him put anythin' over on 'em, for he was pretty slick
even if he was a fine old feller. Now the plain fact was, as they all
knew perfectly well, that this old boy had been caught with the goods.
It might be tough luck, but the law was the law and they were all there
to enforce it--much as they hated to do so--and there was nothing to it
but to convict and let the judge deal with the defendant with that mercy
and leniency and forbearance for which he was so justly famous. He
panted a few times and sat down.

Then the judge took his crack. He told the jury, in so many words, to
pay no attention to either the A.D.A. or to Mr. Tutt, and to listen only
to him, because he was the whole thing. The question was: Had the
defendant assumed to give medical treatment to Brown's horse, for any
kind of valuable consideration? In determining this they should consider
all the evidence, including the fact that the prisoner had claimed to be
a veterinary, had been paid for treating Brown's horse as such, had
pleaded guilty in the police court, and that none of the alleged facts
upon which the charge was based had been denied before them in present
trial.

As he said this the pink-and-white baboon looked at them steadily and
significantly for several seconds over his eyeglasses. As I have
already said, the track, instead of keeping on one level, bends
twice, dips at a certain point under the ledge of the vase and reappears
at the top a little farther on. At one part of the circuit, therefore,
the procession walks on the lower surface of the rim; and this inverted
position implies so little discomfort or danger that it is renewed
at each turn for all the caterpillars from first to last.

It is out of the question then to suggest the dread of a false step
on the edge of the rim which is so nimbly turned at each point of
inflexion.

The caterpillars in distress, starved, shelterless, chilled with cold
at night, cling obstinately to the silk ribbon covered hundreds of times,
because they lack the rudimentary glimmers of reason which would
advise them to abandon it.

Experience and reflection are not in their province. The ordeal of a five
hundred yards' march and three to four hundred turns teach them nothing;
and it takes casual circumstances to bring them back to the nest. They
would perish on their insidious ribbon if the disorder of the nocturnal
encampments and the halts due to fatigue did not cast a few threads
outside the circular path. Some three or four move along these
trails, laid without an object, stray a little way and, thanks to their
wanderings, prepare the descent, which is at last accomplished in short
strings favoured by chance.

The school most highly honoured to-day is very anxious to find the
origin of reason in the dregs of the animal kingdom. Let me call its
attention to the Pine Processionary.

CHAPTER 9. THE SPIDERS.

THE NARBONNE LYCOSA, OR BLACK-BELLIED TARANTULA.

THE BURROW.

Michelet has told us how, as a printer's apprentice in a cellar, he
established amicable relations with a Spider. (Jules Michelet
(1798-1874), author of "L'Oiseau" and "L'Insecte," in addition to
the historical works for which he is chiefly known. As a lad, he helped
his father, a printer by trade, in setting type.

--Translator's Note.) At a certain hour of the day, a ray of sunlight would
glint through the window of the gloomy workshop and light up the
little compositor's case.

Then his eight-legged neighbour would come down from her web and on
the edge of the case take her share of the sunshine. The boy did not
interfere with her; he welcomed the trusting visitor as a friend and as
a pleasant diversion from the long monotony.

When we lack the society of our fellow-men, we take refuge in that
of animals, without always losing by the change.

I do not, thank God, suffer from the melancholy of a cellar: my
solitude is gay with light and verdure; I attend, whenever I please,
the fields' high festival, the Thrushes' concert, the Crickets'
symphony; and yet my friendly commerce with the Spider is marked
by an even greater devotion than the young type-setter's.

I admit her to the intimacy of my study, I make room for her among
my books, I set her in the sun on my window-ledge, I visit her assiduously
at her home, in the country.

The object of our relations is not to create a means of escape from the
petty worries of life, pin-pricks whereof I have my share like
other men, a very large share, indeed; I propose to submit to the
Spider a host of questions whereto, at times, she condescends to
reply.

To what fair problems does not the habit of frequenting her give rise!
To set them forth worthily, the marvellous art which the little printer
was to acquire were not too much.

One needs the pen of a Michelet; and I have but a rough, blunt pencil.
Let us try, nevertheless: even when poorly clad, truth is still
beautiful.

The most robust Spider in my district is the Narbonne Lycosa, or
Black-bellied Tarantula, clad in black velvet on the lower surface,
especially under the belly, with brown chevrons on the abdomen and
grey and white rings around the legs. Her favourite home is the dry,
pebbly ground, covered with sun-scorched thyme.

In my harmas laboratory there are quite twenty of this Spider's
burrows.

Rarely do I pass by one of these haunts without giving a glance down
the pit where gleam, like diamonds, the four great eyes, the
four telescopes, of the hermit. The four others, which are much smaller,
are not visible at that depth.

Would I have greater riches, I have but to walk a hundred yards from my
house, on the neighbouring plateau, once a shady forest,
to-day a dreary solitude where the Cricket browses and the Wheat-ear
flits from stone to stone.

The love of lucre has laid waste the land. Because wine paid handsomely,
they pulled up the forest to plant the vine.

Then came the Phylloxera, the vine-stocks perished and the once green
table-land is now no more than a desolate stretch where a few tufts of
hardy grasses sprout among the pebbles. This waste-land is the Lycosa's
paradise: in an hour's time, if need were, I should discover a hundred
burrows within a limited range.

These dwellings are pits about a foot deep, perpendicular at first and
then bent elbow-wise.

The average diameter is an inch.

On the edge of the hole stands a kerb, formed of straw, bits and scraps
of all sorts and even small pebbles, the size of a hazel-nut. The whole
is kept in place and cemented with silk.

Often, the Spider confines herself to drawing together the dry
blades of the nearest grass, which she ties down with the straps
from her spinnerets, without removing the blades from the stems;
often, also, she rejects this scaffolding in favour of a masonry
constructed of small stones.

The nature of the kerb is decided by the nature of the materials
within the Lycosa's reach, in the close neighbourhood of the
building-yard.

There is no selection: everything meets with approval, provided that it
be near at hand.

The direction is perpendicular, in so far as obstacles, frequent in a
soil of this kind, permit. A bit of gravel can be extracted and hoisted
outside; but a flint is an immovable boulder which the Spider avoids by
giving a bend to her gallery.

If more such are met with, the residence becomes a winding cave,
with stone vaults, with lobbies communicating by means of sharp
passages.

This lack of plan has no attendant drawbacks, so well does the
owner, from long habit, know every corner and storey of her mansion.

If any interesting buzz occur overhead, the Lycosa climbs up from her
rugged manor with the same speed as from a vertical shaft. Perhaps she
even finds the windings and turnings an advantage, when she has
to drag into her den a prey that happens to defend itself.

As a rule, the end of the burrow widens into a side-chamber, a lounge or
resting-place where the Spider meditates at length and is content
to lead a life of quiet when her belly is full.

When she reaches maturity and is once settled, the Lycosa becomes
eminently domesticated.

I have been living in close communion with her for the last three years.
I have installed her in large earthen pans on the window-sills of
my study and I have her daily under my eyes.

Well, it is very rarely that I happen on her outside, a few inches from
her hole, back to which she bolts at the least alarm.

We may take it then that, when not in captivity, the
Lycosa does not go far afield to gather the wherewithal to build her
parapet and that she makes shift with what she finds upon her
threshold.

In these conditions, the building-stones are soon exhausted and the masonry
ceases for lack of materials.

The wish came over me to see what dimensions the circular edifice
would assume, if the Spider were given an unlimited supply.

With captives to whom I myself act as purveyor the thing is easy enough.
Were it only with a view to helping whoso may one day care to continue
these relations with the big Spider of the waste-lands, let me
describe how my subjects are housed.

A good-sized earthenware pan, some nine inches deep, is filled with
a red, clayey earth, rich in pebbles, similar, in short, to that
of the places haunted by the Lycosa.

Properly moistened into a paste, the artificial soil is heaped,
layer by layer, around a central reed, of a bore equal to that of
the animal's natural burrow.

When the receptacle is filled to the top, I withdraw the reed, which
leaves a yawning, perpendicular shaft.

I thus obtain the abode which shall replace that of the fields.

To find the hermit to inhabit it is merely the matter of a walk in
the neighbourhood.

When removed from her own dwelling, which is turned topsy-turvy by my
trowel, and placed in possession of the den produced by my art, the
Lycosa at once disappears into that den.

She does not come out again, seeks nothing better elsewhere.

A large wire-gauze cover rests on the soil in the pan and prevents
escape.

In any case, the watch, in this respect, makes no demand upon my
diligence. The prisoner is satisfied with her new abode and manifests
no regret for her natural burrow.

There is no attempt at flight on her part. Let me not omit to add that
each pan must receive not more than one inhabitant. The Lycosa is very
intolerant. To her a neighbour is fair game, to be eaten without scruple
when one has might on one's side. Time was when, unaware of this fierce
intolerance, which is more savage still at breeding time, I saw
hideous orgies perpetrated in my overstocked cages. I shall have
occasion to describe those tragedies later.

Let us meanwhile consider the isolated Lycosae.

They do not touch up the dwelling which I have moulded for them with
a bit of reed; at most, now and again, perhaps with the object of
forming a lounge or bedroom at the bottom, they fling out a few
loads of rubbish.

But all, little by little, build the kerb that is to edge the mouth.

I have given them plenty of first-rate materials, far superior to
those which they use when left to their own resources. These consist,
first, for the foundations, of little smooth stones, some of which are
as large as an almond. With this road-metal are mingled short strips
of raphia, or palm-fibre, flexible ribbons, easily bent. These stand
for the Spider's usual basket-work, consisting of slender stalks and
dry blades of grass. Lastly, by way of an unprecedented treasure, never
yet employed by a Lycosa, I place at my captives' disposal some
thick threads of wool, cut into inch lengths.

As I wish, at the same time, to find out whether my animals, with
the magnificent lenses of their eyes, are able to distinguish colours
and prefer one colour to another, I mix up bits of wool of different
hues: there are red, green, white, and yellow pieces.

If the Spider have any preference, she can choose where she pleases.

The Lycosa always works at night, a regrettable circumstance, which
does not allow me to follow the worker's methods. I see the result;
and that is all. Were I to visit the building-yard by the light of a
lantern, I should be no wiser. The Spider, who is very shy, would at
once dive into her lair; and I should have lost my sleep for nothing.
Furthermore, she is not a very diligent labourer; she likes to
take her time.

Two or three bits of wool or raphia placed in position represent
a whole night's work. And to this slowness we must add long spells of
utter idleness.

Two months pass; and the result of my liberality surpasses my expectations.
Possessing more windfalls than they know what to do with, all
picked up in their immediate neighbourhood, my Lycosae have built
themselves donjon-keeps the like of which their race has not yet
known.

Around the orifice, on a slightly sloping bank, small, flat, smooth
stones have been laid to form a broken, flagged pavement. The
larger stones, which are Cyclopean blocks compared with the size of
the animal that has shifted them, are employed as abundantly as
the others.

On this rockwork stands the donjon. It is an interlacing of raphia and
bits of wool, picked up at random, without distinction of shade.

Red and white, green and yellow are mixed without any attempt at order.
The Lycosa is indifferent to the joys of colour.

The ultimate result is a sort of muff, a couple of inches high. Bands
of silk, supplied by the spinnerets, unite the pieces, so that the
whole resembles a coarse fabric.

Without being absolutely faultless, for there are always awkward pieces
on the outside, which the worker could not handle, the gaudy
building is not devoid of merit.

The bird lining its nest would do no better. Whoso sees the curious,
many-coloured productions in my pans takes them for an outcome of
my industry, contrived with a view to some experimental mischief;
and his surprise is great when I confess who the real author is.

No one would ever believe the Spider capable of constructing such
a monument.

It goes without saying that, in a state of liberty, on our barren
waste-lands, the Lycosa does not indulge in such sumptuous
architecture. I have given the reason: she is too great a stay-at-home
to go in search of materials and she makes use of the limited resources
which she finds around her. Bits of earth, small chips of stone,
a few twigs, a few withered grasses: that is all, or nearly all.
Wherefore the work is generally quite modest and reduced to a
parapet that hardly attracts attention.

My captives teach us that, when materials are plentiful, especially textile
materials that remove all fears of landslip, the Lycosa delights in tall
turrets. She understands the art of donjon-building and puts it into
practice as often as she possesses the means.

What is the purpose of this turret? My pans will tell us that. An
enthusiastic votary of the chase, so long as she is not permanently
fixed, the Lycosa, once she has set up house, prefers to lie in
ambush and wait for the quarry.

Every day, when the heat is greatest, I see my captives come up slowly
from under ground and lean upon the battlements of their woolly
castle-keep. They are then really magnificent in their stately gravity.
With their swelling belly contained within the aperture, their head
outside, their glassy eyes staring, their legs gathered for a spring,
for hours and hours they wait, motionless, bathing voluptuously in the
sun.

Should a tit-bit to her liking happen to pass, forthwith the watcher
darts from her tall tower, swift as an arrow from the bow.

With a dagger-thrust in the neck, she stabs the jugular of the Locust,
Dragon-fly or other prey whereof I am the purveyor; and she as
quickly scales the donjon and retires with her capture.

The performance is a wonderful exhibition of skill and speed.

Very seldom is a quarry missed, provided that it pass at a convenient
distance, within the range of the huntress' bound.

But, if the prey be at some distance, for instance on the wire of the
cage, the Lycosa takes no notice of it. Scorning to go in pursuit, she
allows it to roam at will. She never strikes except when sure of her
stroke.

She achieves this by means of her tower. Hiding behind the wall, she
sees the stranger advancing, keeps her eyes on him and suddenly pounces
when he comes within reach.

These abrupt tactics make the thing a certainty.

Though he were winged and swift of flight, the unwary one who approaches
the ambush is lost.

This presumes, it is true, an exemplary patience on the Lycosa's
part; for the burrow has naught that can serve to entice victims.

"Thank you," said Bently, and they all traipsed out.

"That cooks him!" whispered Phelan to Mr. Tutt at the keyhole.

"Wait and see! Wait and see!" muttered the lawyer. "We're not dead yet."

Once back in their room the jury took another vote. Eleven to one again.
Then Bently rose.

"Gentlemen," he cried, "I think I have the key to this case."

They all gazed at him expectantly.

"We are obliged by law to give every reasonable doubt to the defendant.
Now the only obstacle to our acquitting this poor old man is the fact
that there is in evidence a conversation in which Lowry is claimed to
have said that he was a veterinary and had been acting as such all his
life. Mr. Tutt says that that conversation is privileged and should be
disregarded because it was a confidential communication between a doctor
and a patient. The judge says it is not privileged for the reason that
Mr. Brown was not in fact a doctor--but he says further that if Brown
were a doctor we should have to disregard that part of the
evidence--which would, as we all agree, leave us free to acquit.

"Now then, how do we know Brown is _not_ a doctor? He says he isn't; but
he lied about everything else he told Lowry, and he may have been lying
about that too. And if he lied to Lowry he may have been lying to us
here to-day. I say that there is a reasonable doubt right there as to
whether Brown is really a doctor or not. Such a doubt belongs to the
defendant. After depriving the beast of all power of movement, she went up to
it and turned her corpulent victim as she would have done with a
medium-sized Moth.

But with the Praying Mantis, sticking out her long legs and her spreading
wings, rotation is no longer feasible.
"Phelan!" gasped Mr. Tutt. "Who shall ever again have the temerity to
suggest that the jury system is not the greatest of our institutions?"

"Pst!" answered Cap. "Listen! Sh-h. By God! They've acquitted him!"

       *        *        *        *        *

"So you caught the five-fifteen after all!" was Eleanor's greeting as
the model juror jumped off the train. "I was terribly afraid you
wouldn't! I hope you didn't let any rascal get away from you?"

"No!" He laughed as he leaped into the motor beside her. "Not a rascal!
And I've got a surprise for you! I'm going to have my vacation after
all!"

"Really!" she cried, delighted. "You clever boy! How did you manage it?"

The next move never varies. The bound insect is bitten, without persistency
and without any wound that shows. The Spider next retires and
allows the bite to act, which it soon does. She then returns.

       

If the victim be small, a Clothes-moth, for instance, it is consumed
on the spot, at the place where it was captured. But, for a prize of some
importance, on which she hopes to feast for many an hour, sometimes
for many a day, the Spider needs a sequestered dining-room, where
there is naught to fear from the stickiness of the network.

I would go to jail a hundred years and more, so I would,
could I but hear again what they all said of me! Sure, I niver knew I
was any account at all, at all! And them sayin' what a fine man I was,
an' all! God bless ye, sorr! And whin ye stand, sorr, at the bar of
heaven before God, the Judge, and the jury of all his holy angels, if
there be none else to defend ye, sure old Danny Lowry'll be there to do
that same."