The night was unusually bright, and we expected to find the gunboat
within a mile or so; but, after pulling down the river fully three
miles, and not seeing the gunboat, I began to think she had turned
and gone back to the sound; but we kept on, following the bends of
the river, and about six miles below McAllister we saw her light,
and soon were hailed by the vessel at anchor.  Pulling alongside,
we announced ourselves, and were received with great warmth and
enthusiasm on deck by half a dozen naval officers, among them
Captain Williamson, United States Navy.  She proved to be the
Dandelion, a tender of the regular gunboat Flag, posted at the
mouth of the Ogeechee.  All sorts of questions were made and
answered, and we learned that Captain Duncan had safely reached the
squadron, had communicated the good news of our approach, and they
had been expecting us for some days.  They explained that Admiral
Dahlgren commanded the South-Atlantic Squadron, which was then
engaged in blockading the coast from Charleston south, and was on
his flag-ship, the Harvest Moon, lying in Wassaw Sound; that
General J. G. Foster was in command of the Department of the South,
with his headquarters at Hilton Head; and that several ships loaded
with stores for the army were lying in Tybee Roads and in Port
Royal Sound.  From these officers I also learned that General Grant
was still besieging Petersburg and Richmond, and that matters and
things generally remained pretty much the same as when we had left
Atlanta.  All thoughts seemed to have been turned to us in Georgia,
cut off from all communication with our friends; and the rebel
papers had reported us to be harassed, defeated, starving, and
fleeing for safety to the coast.  I then asked for pen and paper,
and wrote several hasty notes to General Foster, Admiral Dahlgren,
General Grant, and the Secretary of War, giving in general terms
the actual state of affairs, the fact of the capture of Fort
McAllister, and of my desire that means should be taken to
establish a line of supply from the vessels in port up the Ogeechee
to the rear of the army.  As a sample, I give one of these notes,
addressed to the Secretary of War, intended for publication to
relieve the anxiety of our friends at the North generally:


ON BOARD DANDELION, OSSABAW SOUND, December 13, 1864--11.50 p.m.


To Hon. E.  M.  STANTON, Secretary of War, Washington, D. C.:

To-day, at 6 p. m., General Hazen's division of the Fifteenth Corps
carried Fort McAllister by assault, capturing its entire garrison
and stores.  This opened to us Ossabaw Sound, and I pushed down to
this gunboat to communicate with the fleet.  Before opening
communication we had completely destroyed all the railroads leading
into Savannah, and invested the city.  The extraordinary liberality
of the generous people of Connecticut has frequently excited
apprehension in the minds of their friends, that, sooner or
later, as the result of their spendthrift career, they must come
to beggary. But we are glad to hear that they are making an
effort in New Haven to reform.

The grocery men there say that their customers taste so much before
they can make up their minds to buy anything, that what with
gratuitous slices of cheese and specimen mouthfuls of sugar and
sample spoonfuls of molasses, the shop-keeper's profits are most
dolefully diminished.

A particularly BLUE LAW against this economical custom will
have the effect of sobering down these brilliant Cullers

.

* * * * *
"What Answer?"
Is it likely that HORACE GREELEY, or any other man, could steer
this country through its difficulties by means of the tillers of
the soil?

* * * * *
ANY MORE CAVES?

About the dreariest magazine or other reading we know of--and we
get a deal of it, too--is that which describes the visits of
enthusiastic persons to big caves underground, very dark, damp,
dreary, ugly, funereal--with winding ways and huge holes, water
with eyeless fish, and certain drippings called stalagmites and
stalactites.

The enthusiasts, who always possess that priceless treasure
self-satisfaction, and a boundless capacity for wonder (which
is always ready to exercise itself with anything that is big,
however ugly), and the "Palaces," and "Halls," and "Cascades," and
"Altars," and "Bridal Wreaths" they see there are not only finer
than real ones (if you would believe them!)

but so grand and wonderful as to be
really indescribable.

So we find them, by their turgid and stupid reports, which are all
alike, and all dreary and silly.

We have never heard of anybody who got excited over these pictures
(except the artists themselves); and positively there is no flatter
reading anywhere than these gushing notes about big caves.

* * * * *
GEOMETRICAL.

Why is it that we hear so much of the proper "Sphere" of woman? Here
is that noble exile, the Princess Editha Montez, lecturing again,
and her subject, of course, is the Spherical one. So when Mesdames
Stanton, Dickinson, Anthony, Howe--all the lovely lecturers--discourse,
they forget the platform which is plane, and discuss the "sphere"
which is mysterious. Can it possibly be that it is because these
amiable gentlewomen are always going round? Or is it because they
cannot help reasoning in a circle? Or is there some occult relation
between spheres and hoops? Or has the wedding-ring something to
do with it? It should be understood, that these are questions addressed
solely to male mathematicians; for Mr. P. is unlike John Graham, and
doesn't care to cross-examine ladies.

* * * * *
SECRETION EXTRAORDINARY.

It is done by Mollusks. We can tell you even the precise kind--it
is the Gasteropod kind. Not only this, we know the very devil
himself that does it. (And you will say that "devil" is not a
particle too rough a term, when we come to tell what it is he
"secretes.") It is the _Dolium galea_, good friends, and
we could tell you six other kinds that are suspected of this meanness.
One of 'em is the _Pleurobranchidium_ --which, of course, you have
often heard of.

Well, what do these wretched Mollusks go and secrete? We can tell
you--we, who know everything. It is sulphuric acid! What!
do they steal it? Oh, no; they "evolve" it--probably from the "depths
of their own consciousness."
And what do they do it for? Well, they bore with it. Give 'em a
chance, and they'll go through _you_. The acid eats its way, and
then they eat _their_ way. That way is not ours, exactly; but we
have known human beings about as venomous as this creature, and
with precisely the same tendency to pierce one. They do it with their
tongues, it is true, but the perforation is complete.

* * * * *
THE WRONG PLACE.

We are unusually astonished to find the Female Reformers holding
their meeting in this city in Apollo Hall. It is well known that
Apollo was a god of the male persuasion; and to have everything
"mix up well," these philosophical dames should have a Minerva Hall
or a Diana Hall of their own. Besides, was not Apollo the God of
Harmony? Precious little of that same was there at this meeting;
for there was the Medical Mary Walker trying to make a speech, while
the Chairwoman put her down, causing Mary de Medici to cry out with
shrill indignation: "Tyrant!"General Foster then
concluded to go on to Port Royal, to send back to us six hundred
thousand rations, and all the rifled guns of heavy calibre, and
ammunition on hand, with which I thought we could reach the city of
Savannah, from the positions already secured.  Admiral Dahlgren
then returned with me in the Harvest Moon to Fort McAllister.  This
consumed all of the 14th of December; and by the 15th I had again
reached Cheeves's Mill, where my horse awaited me, and rode on to
General Howard's headquarters at Anderson's plantation, on the
plank-road, about eight miles back of Savannah.  I reached this
place about noon, and immediately sent orders to my own
head-quarters, on the Louisville road, to have them brought over to
the plank-road, as a place more central and convenient; gave written
notice to Generals Slocum and Howard of all the steps taken, and
ordered them to get ready to receive the siege-guns, to put them in
position to bombard Savannah, and to prepare for the general assault.
The country back of Savannah is very low, and intersected with
innumerable saltwater creeks, swamps, and rice-fields. Fortunately
the weather was good and the roads were passable, but, should the
winter rains set in, I knew that we would be much embarrassed.
Therefore, heavy details of men were at once put to work to prepare a
wharf and depot at Grog's Bridge, and the roads leading thereto were
corduroyed in advance.  The Ogeechee Canal was also cleared out for
use; and boats, such as were common on the river plantations, were
collected, in which to float stores from our proposed base on the
Ogeechee to the points most convenient to the several camps.

Slocum's wing extended from the Savannah River to the canal, and
Howard's wing from the canal to the extreme right, along down the
Little Ogeechee.  The enemy occupied not only the city itself, with
its long line of outer works, but the many forts which had been
built to guard the approaches from the sea-such as at Beaulieu,
Rosedew, White Bluff, Bonaventura, Thunderbolt, Cansten's Bluff,
Forts Tatnall, Boggs, etc., etc.  I knew that General Hardee could
not have a garrison strong enough for all these purposes, and I was
therefore anxious to break his lines before he could receive
reenforcements from Virginia or Augusta.  General Slocum had
already captured a couple of steamboats trying to pass down the
Savannah River from Augusta, and had established some of his men on
Argyle and Hutchinson Islands above the city, and wanted to
transfer a whole corps to the South Carolina bank; but, as the
enemy had iron-clad gunboats in the river, I did not deem it
prudent, because the same result could be better accomplished from
General Fosters position at Broad River.

This quite overcomes me----
ARABELLA. My lady!

LEONORA (rising.) What, before my eyes! with a notorious coquette!
In presence of the whole nobility of Genoa! (strongly
affected.)--Rosa!
Arabella! and before my weeping eyes!

ROSA. Look upon it only as what it really was--a piece of
gallantry. It was nothing more.

LEONORA. Gallantry! What! Their busy interchange of glances--the
anxious watching of her every motion--the long and eager
kiss upon her naked arm, impressed with a fervor that left in
crimson glow the very traces of his lips!

Ha! and the transport that enwrapped his
soul, when, with fixed eyes, he sate like painted ecstacy, as if
the world around him had dissolved, and naught remained in the
eternal void but he and Julia.

Gallantry? Poor thing! Thou hast never loved. Think not that
thou canst teach me to distinguish gallantry from love!

ROSA. No matter, Signora! A husband lost is as good as ten lovers
gained.

LEONORA. Lost? Is then one little intermission of the heart's
pulsations a proof that I have lost Fiesco? Go, malicious slanderer!

Come no more into my presence! 'Twas an innocent frolic--perhaps a
mere piece of gallantry. Say, my gentle Arabella, was it not
so?

ARABELLA. Most certainly! There can be no doubt of it!
LEONORA (in a reverie). But does she then feel herself sole mistress
of his heart? Does her name lurk in his every thought?--meet him
in every phase of nature? Can it be? Whither will these thoughts
lead me?I have never had a fear, however, for the result.

Since you left Atlanta no very great progress has been made here.
The enemy has been closely watched, though, and prevented from
detaching against you.  I think not one man has gone from here,
except some twelve or fifteen hundred dismounted cavalry.  Bragg
has gone from Wilmington.  I am trying to take advantage of his
absence to get possession of that place.  Owing to some
preparations Admiral Porter and General Butler are making to blow
up Fort Fisher (which, while hoping for the best, I do not believe
a particle in), there is a delay in getting this expedition off.  I
hope they will be ready to start by the 7th, and that Bragg will
not have started back by that time.

Would you choose to see the frolics of my harlequin? Perhaps
you would be pleased to join the ladies. Or shall we sit down to
faro, and pass the time in play?
A MASK. We are accustomed to spend it in action.
FIESCO. A manly answer--such as bespeaks Verrina.With your veteran army I hope to get control of the only
two through routes from east to west possessed by the enemy before
the fall of Atlanta.  The condition will be filled by holding
Savannah and Augusta, or by holding any other port to the east of
Savannah and Branchville.  If Wilmington falls, a force from there
can cooperate with you.

Thomas has got back into the defenses of Nashville, with Hood close
upon him.  Decatur has been abandoned, and so have all the roads,
except the main one leading to Chattanooga.  Part of this falling
back was undoubtedly necessary, and all of it may have been.  It
did not look so, however, to me.  In my opinion, Thomas far
outnumbers Hood in infantry.  In cavalry Hood has the advantage in
morale and numbers.  I hope yet that Hood will be badly crippled,
if not destroyed.  "]
* * * * *

BRILLIANCY OF THE "SUN."
The Moon, as is generally known, shines with a borrowed light, while
the Sun is popularly supposed to manufacture its own gas and
to arrange its pyrotechnics
on the premises.

Our N.Y.

_Sun_, however, does not always manufacture its
own beams.

By far the most brilliant of the "sunbeams," for instance, published
in that journal of November 1st, is the quaint and charming little
poem there headed "Sally Salter," and written originally for
Punchinello, in the issue of which publication for Oct.
1st it made its first appearance, under the title of "The Lovers."

We congratulate the _Sun_ on having thus successfully lit its
pipe with Punchinello's fire, though we think it might have been
gracious enough to have acknowledged the favor
You have now destroyed the roads of the South so that it will
probably take them three months without interruption to reestablish
a through line from east to west.  In that time I think the job here
will be effectually completed.

My idea now is that you establish a base on the sea-coast, fortify
and leave in it all your artillery and cavalry, and enough infantry
to protect them, and at the same time so threaten the interior that
the militia of the South will have to be kept at home.  _Clothier._
"Step in and look at our goods, Captain. Summer stuffs at a
discount--nice lot o' white ducks at half price."
_Sportsman._ "I beat you there. I've got a nice lot o' black ducks
here that ain't to be had at any price.Hood has Thomas close in Nashville.  I have said all I can to force
him to attack, without giving the positive order until to-day.
To-day, however, I could stand it no longer, and gave the order
without any reserve.  I think the battle will take place to-morrow.
Am I, then, to blame because the Count makes use of his eyes?
(Smilingly admiring herself.)
FIESCO. 'Tis the fault of your beauty, madam, that keeps them
in such sweet slavery.

JULIA. Away with compliment where honor is concerned.
