THE DAY'S WORK

By Rudyard Kipling


CONTENTS

     THE BRIDGE-BUILDERS
     A WALKING DELEGATE
     THE SHIP THAT FOUND HERSELF
     THE TOMB OF HIS ANCESTORS
     THE DEVIL AND THE DEEP SEA
     WILLIAM THE CONQUEROR
     .007
     THE MALTESE CAT
     BREAD UPON THE WATERS
     AN ERROR IN THE FOURTH DIMENSION
     MY SUNDAY AT HOME
     THE BRUSHWOOD BOY


THE BRIDGE-BUILDERS


The least that Findlayson, of the Public Works Department, expected was
a C. I. E.; he dreamed of a C. S. I.: indeed, his friends told him
that he deserved more. For three years he had endured heat and cold,
disappointment, discomfort, danger, and disease, with responsibility
almost too heavy for one pair of shoulders; and day by day, through that
time, the great Kashi Bridge over the Ganges had grown under his charge.
Now, in less than three months, if all went well, his Excellency the
Viceroy would open the bridge in state, an archbishop would bless it,
and the first trainload of soldiers would come over it, and there would
be speeches.

Findlayson, C. E., sat in his trolley on a construction line that ran
along one of the main revetments--the huge stone-faced banks that flared
away north and south for three miles on either side of the river--and
permitted himself to think of the end. With its approaches, his work was
one mile and three-quarters fin length; a lattice-girder bridge, trussed
with the Findlayson truss, standing on seven-and-twenty brick pies. Each
one of those piers was twenty-four feet in diameter, capped with red
Agra stone and sunk eighty feet below the shifting sand of the Ganges'
bed. Above them was a railway-line fifteen feet broad; above that,
again, a cart-road of eighteen feet, flanked with footpaths. At either
end rose towers of red brick, loopholed for musketry and pierced for
big guns, and the ramp of the road was being pushed forward to their
haunches. The raw earth-ends were crawling and alive with hundreds upon
hundreds of tiny asses climbing out of the yawning borrow-pit below with
sackfuls of stuff; and the hot afternoon air was filled with the
noise of hooves, the rattle of the drivers' sticks, and the swish and
roll-down of the dirt. The river was very low, and on the dazzling
white sand between the three centre piers stood squat cribs of
railway-sleepers, filled within and daubed without with mud, to support
the last of the girders as those were riveted up. In the little deep
water left by the drought, an overhead-crane travelled to and fro
along its spile-pier, jerking sections of iron into place, snorting and
backing and grunting as an elephant grunts in the timber-yard. Riveters
by the hundred swarmed about the lattice side-work and the iron roof of
the railway-line, hung from invisible staging under the bellies of
the girders, clustered round the throats of the piers, and rode on the
overhang of the footpath-stanchions; their fire-pots and the spurts of
flame that answered each hammer-stroke showing no more than pale
yellow in the sun's glare. East and west and north and south the
construction-trains rattled and shrieked up and down the embankments,
the piled trucks of brown and white stone banging behind them till the
side-boards were unpinned, and with a roar and a grumble a few thousand
tons more material were flung out to hold the river in place.

Findlayson, C. E., turned on his trolley and looked over the face of the
country that he had changed for seven miles around. Looked back on the
humming village of five thousand workmen; up stream and down, along the
vista of spurs and sand; across the river to the far piers, lessening
in the haze; overhead to the guard-towers--and only he knew how strong
those were--and with a sigh of contentment saw that his work was good.
There stood his bridge before him in the sunlight, lacking only a few
weeks' work on the girders of the three middle piers--his bridge, raw
and ugly as original sin, but pukka--permanent--to endure when all
memory of the builder, yea, even of the splendid Findlayson truss, had
perished. Practically, the thing was done.

Hitchcock, his assistant, cantered along the line on a little
switch-tailed Kabuli pony who through long practice could have trotted
securely over a trestle, and nodded to his chief.

"All but," said he, with a smile.

"I've been thinking about it," the senior answered. "Not half a bad job
for two men, is it?"

"One-and a half. Gad, what a Cooper's Hill cub I was when I came on the
works!" Hitchcock felt very old in the crowded experiences of the past
three years, that had taught him power and responsibility.


"You were rather a colt," said Findlayson. "I wonder how you'll like
going back to office-work when this job's over."

"I shall hate it!" said the young man, and as he went on his eye
followed Findlayson's, and he muttered, "Isn't it damned good?"

"I think we'll go up the service together," Findlayson said to himself.
"You're too good a youngster to waste on another man. Cub thou wart;
assistant thou art. Personal assistant, and at Simla, thou shalt be, if
any credit comes to me out of the business!"

Indeed; the burden of the work had fallen altogether on Findlayson and
his assistant, the young man whom he had chosen because of his rawness
to break to his own needs. There were labour contractors by the
half-hundred--fitters and riveters, European, borrowed from the railway
workshops, with, perhaps, twenty white and half-caste subordinates to
direct, under direction, the bevies of workmen--but none knew better
than these two, who trusted each other, how the underlings were not to
be trusted. They had been tried many times in sudden crises--by slipping
of booms, by breaking of tackle, failure of cranes, and the wrath of
the river--but no stress had brought to light any man among men whom
Findlayson and Hitchcock would have honoured by working as remorselessly
as they worked themselves. Findlayson thought it over from the
beginning: the months of office-work destroyed at a blow when the
Government of India, at the last moment, added two feet to the width of
the bridge, under the impression that bridges were cut out of paper, and
so brought to ruin at least half an acre of calculations--and Hitchcock,
new to disappointment, buried his head in his arms and wept; the
heart-breaking delays over the filling of the contracts in England; the
futile correspondences hinting at great wealth of commissions if one,
only one, rather doubtful consignment were passed; the war that followed
the refusal; the careful, polite obstruction at the other end that
followed the war, till young Hitchcock, putting one month's leave to
another month, and borrowing ten days from Findlayson, spent his poor
little savings of a year in a wild dash to London, and there, as his own
tongue asserted and the later consignments proved, put the fear of God
into a man so great that he feared only Parliament and said so till
Hitchcock wrought with him across his own dinner-table, and--he feared
the Kashi Bridge and all who spoke in its name. Then there was the
cholera that came in the night to the village by the bridge works; and
after the cholera smote the Smallpox. The fever they had always with
them. Hitchcock had been appointed a magistrate of the third class
with whipping powers, for the better government of the community, and
Findlayson watched him wield his powers temperately, learning what to
overlook and what to look after. It was a long, long reverie, and it
covered storm, sudden freshets, death in every manner and shape, violent
and awful rage against red tape half frenzying a mind that knows it
should be busy on other things; drought, sanitation, finance; birth,
wedding, burial, and riot in the village of twenty warring castes;
argument, expostulation, persuasion, and the blank despair that a
man goes to bed upon, thankful that his rifle is all in pieces in
the gun-case. Behind everything rose the black frame of the Kashi
Bridge--plate by plate, girder by girder, span by span-and each pier
of it recalled Hitchcock, the all-round man, who had stood by his chief
without failing from the very first to this last.

So the bridge was two men's work--unless one counted Peroo, as Peroo
certainly counted himself. He was a Lascar, a Kharva from Bulsar,
familiar with every port between Rockhampton and London, who had risen
to the rank of sarang on the British India boats, but wearying of
routine musters and clean clothes, had thrown up the service and gone
inland, where men of his calibre were sure of employment. For his
knowledge of tackle and the handling of heavy weights, Peroo was worth
almost any price he might have chosen to put upon his services; but
custom decreed the wage of the overhead men, and Peroo was not within
many silver pieces of his proper value. Neither running water nor
extreme heights made him afraid; and, as an ex-serang, he knew how to
hold authority. No piece of iron was so big or so badly placed that
Peroo could not devise a tackle to lift it--a loose-ended, sagging
arrangement, rigged with a scandalous amount of talking, but perfectly
equal to the work in hand. It was Peroo who had saved the girder of
Number Seven pier from destruction when the new wire rope jammed in the
eye of the crane, and the huge plate tilted in its slings, threatening
to slide out sideways. Then the native workmen lost their heads with
great shoutings, and Hitchcock's right arm was broken by a falling
T-plate, and he buttoned it up in his coat and swooned, and came to and
directed for four hours till Peroo, from the top of the crane, reported
"All's well," and the plate swung home. Under excruciating thoughts
Ines was asleep, then came the dream, because she knew that she could
not stay, they had to continue from this home, only a small bundle, she
wanted to go, then away, far away - to her mother on Nimmerwiederkehr
! From the garden behind the spruces, which formed the back of
that, led a small gate in the Free; the key she had in her bag, she
wanted to continue - gleich.-The moon moved further from the bed on the
pillow, and Now her beautiful face was fully illuminated his pale .--
Then slip it on. Noiseless they emerged and entered the bed with
bare feet in their shoes before standing. Now they stood in the middle
of the room in her white sleeping gown, her dark hair hung, as it was
used at night to arrange, in two long lichens on their chest. But their
otherwise elastic shape seemed like toads collected, it was as if the
load is still sleeping on it. Groping with advanced hands, they glided
through the room, but they took nothing with no bundle, no keys. As with
the fingers on the subject on a chair grazed her husband's clothes,
she hesitated a moment, than win another idea in her room; immediately
but gradually they quietly and solemnly Stubentür out and continue
down the stairs.

Then the bottom line in the hallway of the castle Hoftür, cold air blew
on it, the night the wind lifted the heavy lichen on their chest .--
How they came to the dark forest, which lay behind her, which she knew
not, but now she heard everywhere gush out of the thicket, and the
pursuers were behind her. Before her stood a large gate, with all the
power of their little hands they met on a wing and a dull, indefinite
heath spread before her, and suddenly swarmed by big black dogs, in the
busy daherrannten Over against them, they saw the red tongues from their
steaming jaws hanging, she heard her barking getting closer and
closer - Da-sounding their half-opened eyes, and gradually she began
to grasp. She knew that she is within the garden is large and its a
hand held, nor the iron gate of the latch. The wind played with
her night light garb, from the Linden, which on the side of the
entrance stood, whirled a show of yellow leaves on it down .-- But
- what was that?

- Drüben from the pine trees, just as it previously to hear believed yell
even now the barking of a dog, something she heard clearly through the
arid branches break. A fear of death invaded them .-- And yell back the
barking. "Nero," said she, "it is Nero."

But they had with the black guardians of the house never friends, and
was involuntarily ran her real animal with fierce dogs in one of the
dream together, and now she saw him from across the lawn in great leaps
towards him. But he laid himself down before her, and that unmistakable
whimper of joy emissions, he licked her bare feet. At the same time
came forth from the court, and for a moment that they surrounded the arms
of her husband, saved it presented the head to his chest. From the
barking of the dog up, he had sudden fright with their camp at his
side empty view. A dark water glittered suddenly before his inner eye,
it was only thousand steps behind her garden on a dirt road in dense alder
thickets.

Like a few days ago, he saw with Ines to the green edge to the
shore, he looked up into the reeds, and what you a stone, which she
picked up earlier by the wayside, throw into the depths.

"Come back, Ines!" he called, "it is not safe there." But she was still
stopped, with melancholy eyes staring into the circles, which slowly
on the black water expired. "This is probably unfathomable?"

she asked, as he finally tore his arms forge. The whole thing was in
a wild flight went through his head when he was down the stairs
after the court hinabgestürmt .-- Even then they were through the
garden of her home fortgegangen, and now met it here, almost naked,
the beautiful hair of Nachttau moist, which still dripped from the
trees.

He wrapped them in the plaid, which he himself had thrown over vorm down.
"Ines," he said - the heart beat him so great that he almost rough
hervorstieß word - "what is this?

Hieher How did you come?" Schauerte you to collapse. "I do not know,
Rudolf -I wanted to continue - I dreamed, oh Rudolf, it is something
terrible must have been!

"" You dreamed? Really, you dreamed! " he repeated, and breathed on,
as a heavy burden freed. She nodded and was just like a child into
the house and in the bedchamber back. When he was here his
arms gently from him, she said: "You're so dumb, you certainly angry?
"" How should I be cross, Ines, I was afraid for you.

Have you ever dreamed of so early?

"She only shook her head, but soon bethought themselves accordingly."
But - again, only it was not horrible. "He came to the window and
pulled back the curtains so that the full moonlight into the room
streamed.

"I must see your face," he said, by referring them to the edge of
her bed niederzog and then himself at their side continued.

"Will you now tell me what you dreamed was sweet? You need not speak
aloud, and in that soft light is also the quietest sound the ear.

"She had her head on his chest, and looked up to him."

If you want to know, "she said after innend." It was I think, on my
thirteenth birthday, I had myself completely in the child, the
young Christ, in love, I loved my dolls no longer see. "" In the
small Christ, Ines?

"" Yes, Rudolf, "and they presented like to rest more firmly into
his arm, "my mother had presented me a picture, a Madonna with
Child, it was nicely framed on my work table in the living room."

"I know it," he said, "it depends yes still there, your mother wanted to
keep it in memory of the small Ines. "-" O my dear mother! "He pulled
it fixed itself, and then he said:" May I continue to hear, Ines?

"-" Yet! But I am ashamed, Rudolf.

"And then quietly and slowly continuing:" I had on that day only for the
eyes Christkind also afternoons when my Gespielinnen there were, I
secretly slipped me out and kissed the glass in front of his
small-mouth -it was all over me, as if it were alive - I would just
like the mother in the picture in my arms can take!

"- it was silent, her voice was at the last words to a whispering
breath herabgesunken." And then, Ines, "he said." But you tell me
so uneasy, "-" No, no, Rudolf!

But - in the night that followed, I also got up in his dreams, because
the next morning they found me in my bed, the image in both arms, with
my head on the crushed Glase asleep. "For a while it was till dead in
the room .-- "And now?" he asked ahnungsvoll and looked her deeply
and sincerely in the eyes.

"What did you today because of my side in the night-driven?" "Now, Rudolf?"
- He felt like a tremor through all her limbs ran. Suddenly she wrapped
her arms around his neck, and choked voice whispered it fearful and
confused words whose meaning he did not understand. "Ines, Ines," he said
and took her beautiful face full kummer in his two hands. - "Oh, Rudolph!
Let me die, but did not our child! "He was up to her knees and dropped
kissed her hands. Only the message he had heard and not darken the
words in which he proclaimed was his soul flew all shadow continued
and hopeful for her rich-looking upwards, he said quietly: "Now
everything, every turn!"

The time went -------------------------- further, but the dark forces
were not yet defeated. Only with reluctance added Ines still weighing
from Nesis time of small things existing equipment, and some tears
fell into the small caps and jackets in which they are now silent
and eager sewed .-- Nesi Also, it was not unaware that anything
unusual is preparing. in the House of Lords, after the large garden,
was suddenly a desk tightly closed, in the otherwise their toys had
been kept, they had hineingeguckt through the keyhole, and a twilight,
a solemn silence it seemed too lenient.

And when her dolls kitchen that is available on the corridor had with the
old Anne Hülfe on the House floor was, they looked in vain for the cradle
with the green Taffetschirme what, as long as they could imagine,
here under the sloping skylight had.

Curious peered into every corner. "What are you going around like a
controller?" said the old woman. - "Yes, Anne, where is my birthplace,
but this?" The old woman looked at her with shrewd to smile. "What
do," she said, "if you have the stork so brother would?" Nesi was
affected on, but they felt betrayed by this title in their eleven
years of hurt dignity.

"The stork?" she said scornfully. "Now, admittedly, Nesi." - "You must
not talk to me what, Anne. The little children believe, but I know well
that it is nonsense. "" So?

- If you know it better, Mamsell saucy, because where are the
children's, if not the stork brings them, which it already Thousands
of years ago worried at all?

"-" They come from God, "said Nesi pathetic." They are there at once. ""
Keep us in grace, "cried the old woman." What is the Guckindiewelte
today are smart! But you're right, Nesi;'s when you certainly know that
the God of the stork office has set - I think's own, he is there
alone you need. - But now - if it's because at one time since about
the brother - or you wanted to prefer a Schwesterlein?

- Würd dich's happy Neschen? "Nesi stood in front of the elderly, based
on a travel suitcase had established, a smile transformed her serious
little face, but then they seemed nachzusinnen.

"Well, Neschen," researched the old woman again. "Würd's thee glad
Neschen?" "Yes, Anne," she said finally, "I would probably have a little
sister, and father would certainly be happy, but - "" Well, Neschen,
what hast thou still abern? "" But, "repeated Nesi and then held again
for a moment pondering how inne, -" the child would be yes but have no
mother! "" What?

"cried the old woman quite frightened and strove laboriously from its
suitcase," the child no mother! You're taught to me, Nesi, Come, let us
what you - Do you hear? Since proposes's two!

Now do that you come to school! "Rustled the early spring storms around
the house, the hour is approaching. -" If I could not survive, "Ines
thought," whether he would remember my then? "With shy eyes went them
at the door of the room over which silence them and their future fate
awaited; quietly joined them, as though something in them, what they
used to arouse fear. And finally was the house of a child, a second
daughter, was born. From the outside, knocked the light green branches
at the windows, but inside the room the young mother was pale and
disfigured, the warm brown of the cheeks, the sun had disappeared,
but in their eyes burned a fire that consumed his body.

Rudolf sat on the bed and held her slim hand in his. Now she
laboriously turned the head to the cradle, under the hat of the
old Anne on the other side of the room stood. "Rudolf," she told
Matt, "I have to ask!" - "Still one, Ines? I will be much to ask
of you have.

"She looked at him sadly, only one second, then flew her eye hurried back
to the cradle."

You know, "she said, increasingly difficult breathing," there is no
picture of me You always wanted that there should be only from
a good master painted - we can no longer wait for the master hand. -
You could have a photographer come, Rudolf, it is a little cumbersome,
but - my child, it is me no longer know, but it must know how that
which the mother. "" Wait a little, "he said and sought a bold tone
in his voice to be."

It would now be very exciting, wait until your cheeks again are full!
"She pointed with both hands over her black hair, long and shiny on
the comforter was by an almost wild look in the room umherwarf." Making
a mirror! "she said, by being completely in the pillow is erected.
"Bring me a mirror!" He wanted to fight, but the old woman had a hand
mirror and herbeigeholt on the bed. The sick hastily grabbed him, but
when they hineinblickte, painted a violent fright on their trains, they
took a cloth and wiped on the glass, but it was no different, only
more alien stared suffering the ill face opposite her. "Who is that?" she
cried suddenly. "That I am not! - Oh, my God, no picture, no shade for
my child! "She let the mirror fall and skinny hands, the face. As a
wine came to her ear. It was not her child, unaware that in its
cradle lay and slept; Nesi had slipped unnoticed, they stood in the
middle of the room and looked with gloomy eyes on the step-mother,
sobbing while she bit into her lip. Ines, she had noticed. "You
cry, Nesi?" she asked. But the child did not answer. "Why do you
cry, Nesi?" she repeated fiercely . The trains of the child were
still dark. "To my mother!" broke it almost defiantly from the
small mouth.

The sick stutzte a moment, but then she stretched her arms out of
bed, and when the child, such as involuntary, is approached had tore it
violently to her chest. "Nesi O, do not forget your mother!" Since queues
two small arms around their necks, and their only understandable, it
breathed: "My dear, sweet Mom!" - "Bin I love your mom, Nesi? "Nesi did
not answer, they just nodded vigorously in the pillow." Then, Nesi, "and
in confidential whispers said it blessed the sick," forget me not! Oh,
I do not like to forget! "- Rudolf motionless, these operations had
been seen, he dared not to disturb; half in mortal fear, half in quiet
jubilation, but fear kept the upper hand. Ines was zurückgesunken
their pillows; she spoke no more; asleep - suddenly. Nesi, which is
quietly removed from the bed, had knelt before the birth of her sister,
she looked full of admiration the tiny hand that emerges from the pillow
aufreckte, and if the red is Gesichtlein made and the little awkward
hervorbrach According to people, then her eyes gleamed before delight.
Rudolf, who was quietly approached, put a hand to caress her head, she
turned and kissed the other hand of the Father, then looked back at
her The hour-Schwesterchen. receded further. Outside, the midday light
note, and the curtains at the windows were fixed apply. Long since he
sat back on the bed of his beloved wife, in dull expectation, thoughts
and images came and went, he looked not, he let them come and go. Ever
heard earlier, it was now as have been, an eerie feeling infested him,
he was when he lived for the second time he looked again the black
dead tree and ascend with the dark branches cover his whole house.

He anxiously looked after the sick, but they slumbered gently in calm
breaths lifted her chest. Under the window in the flowering Syringe
sang a little bird's heads, he heard him, he has tried the deceptive
fortzuscheuchen hopes that it now wanted to embrace. In the afternoon
the doctor came, he was coming to sleep on the end and took her
hand that a warm moist breath covered.

Rudolf looked anxious in the face of his friend, which trains the
expression of surprise assumptions. "Schone not me!" he said.
"Let me know everything!" But the doctor pressed his hand. - "Saved!" -
The only word he had retained. He stopped once the singing of the bird,
the whole life came zurückgeflutet.

"Saved!" - And he had already lost to them in the big night, he had
believed that the violent shock of the morning they should perish,
but it was her salvation, it tore them up!

In these words of poet, he took all his happiness together, they sounded
like music on and on in his ears .-- Still slept the sick, he still
sat waiting on her bed.

Only the night light now dawned in the silent room, outside
in the garden came Vogelsang now instead of the rush of the night wind,
sometimes as Harfenton blew it up and pulled over, the young branches
softly knocked on the window.

"Ines" he whispered, "Ines" He could not leave her name out. As proposed
in the eye and let them firm and long for him to rest, as if from
the depth of sleep, her soul only to bring him up.

"You, Rudolf?" she said finally. "And I'm once again woken up!" He looked
at them and could not ersättigen in their sight. "Ines," he said - sounded
almost humble his voice - "I sit here for hours already and I'm
wearing the Fortunately as a heavy burden on my head, help me carry
it, Ines!

"" Rudolf -! " They had to erect a strong movement. - "You will live,
Ines!" "Who said so?" - "Your doctor, my friend, I know he was not
wrong." "Life!" O my God! life - for my child, for thee!

"- It was as if it suddenly a reminder, they wrapped their hands
around the neck of her husband and pressed his ear to her mouth. "And
for your - for your, our Nesi!"

she whispered. Then she let go his neck and his hands moving, she
said to him gently and lovingly. "I am so easily!" she said. "I do not
even know why everything else has been so hard!"

And nod to him: "Thou shalt only see Rudolf, now comes the good time,
but -" and she lifted her head and brought her eyes very close to his -
"I have to participate in your past, your happiness must you tell
me! And, Rudolf, her sweet image will hang in the room, we heard jointly,
they must dabeisein if you tell me! "He looked at her as Blessed."

Yes, Ines; dabeisein they should! " "And Nesi, I tell her again of her
mother, what I have heard from you - what fits for their age,
Rudolf, only that -" He could only nod silently still.

"Nesi Where is?" she asked then, "I want her to have a Gutenachtkuß!"
"She sleeps, Ines," he said softly and pointed with his hand on
her forehead.

"It's midnight!" "Midnight! So you also need to sleep now!" But I - do
not laugh me out, Rudolf - me hungry, I must eat! And then, afterwards,
the cradle before my bed, very close Rudolf Then I sleep again, I
feel's, certainly, you can very quietly go away.

"He remained still."

I must have only a pleasure! " he said. "A joy?" "Yes, Ines, a
completely new, and I will see you eat!" - "O thou!" - And when he
also became, he wore with the Wärterin the cradle before the bed .

'And now good night to me, as I should once more in our wedding day into
sleep. "She smiled but was happy for their child. - And soon everything
was quiet. But not the black dead tree stretched its branches over
the roof of the house; golden ears of corn from faraway fields nodded
softly the red poppies of sleep. Even a rich harvest stood before.
-------------------------- And it was again time Rose. - On the large
increase of the large garden was a fun vehicle.

Nero was apparently advanced because not a doll, but in a real pram he
stood patiently angeschirrt and held still, as Nesi his mighty head,
now the last buckle zuzog. The old Anne leaned on the screen of the cart
and plucking at the cushions, where the loose-yet nameless daughter
of the house with large eyes were open, but already called Nesi: "Hue,
gee, old Nero," and in a dignified step, the small caravan on their daily
ride in motion.
"I
was troubled for my boats and sheers before the flood came. Now we are
in the hands of the Gods. The Sahib will not eat and lie down? Take
these, then. They are meat and good toddy together, and they kill all
weariness, besides the fever that follows the rain. I have eaten nothing
else to-day at all."

He took a small tin tobacco-box from his sodden waistbelt and thrust it
into Findlayson's hand, saying, "Nay, do not be afraid. It is no more
than opium--clean Malwa opium!"

Findlayson shook two or three of the dark-brown pellets into his hand,
and hardly knowing what he did, swallowed them. The stuff was at least
a good guard against fever--the fever that was creeping upon him out of
the wet mud--and he had seen what Peroo could do in the stewing mists of
autumn on the strength of a dose from the tin box.

Peroo nodded with bright eyes. "In a little--in a little the Sahib
will find that he thinks well again. I too will--" He dived into his
treasure-box, resettled the rain-coat over his head, and squatted down
to watch the boats. It was too dark now to see beyond the first pier,
and the night seemed to have given the river new strength. Findlayson
stood with his chin on his chest, thinking. There was one point about
one of the piers--the seventh--that he had not fully settled in his
mind. The figures would not shape themselves to the eye except one by
one and at enormous intervals of time. There was a sound rich and mellow
in his ears like the deepest note of a double-bass--an entrancing sound
upon which he pondered for several hours, as it seemed. Then Peroo
was at his elbow, shouting that a wire hawser had snapped and the
stone-boats were loose. Findlayson saw the fleet open and swing out
fanwise to a long-drawn shriek of wire straining across gunnels.

"A tree hit them. They will all go," cried Peroo. "The main hawser has
parted. What does the Sahib do?"

An immensely complex plan had suddenly flashed into Findlayson's
mind. He saw the ropes running from boat to boat in straight lines and
angles--each rope a line of white fire. But there was one rope which was
the master rope. He could see that rope. If he could pull it once, it
was absolutely and mathematically certain that the disordered fleet
would reassemble itself in the backwater behind the guard-tower. But
why, he wondered, was Peroo clinging so desperately to his waist as he
hastened down the bank? It was necessary to put the Lascar aside, gently
and slowly, because it was necessary to save the boats, and, further,
to demonstrate the extreme ease of the problem that looked so difficult.
And then--but it was of no conceivable importance--a wirerope raced
through his hand, burning it, the high bank disappeared, and with it
all the slowly dispersing factors of the problem. He was sitting in the
rainy darkness--sitting in a boat that spun like a top, and Peroo was
standing over him.

"I had forgotten," said the Lascar, slowly, "that to those fasting and
unused, the opium is worse than any wine. Those who die in Gunga go to
the Gods. Still, I have no desire to present myself before such great
ones. Can the Sahib swim?"

"What need? He can fly--fly as swiftly as the wind," was the thick
answer.

"He is mad!" muttered Peroo, under his breath. "And he threw me aside
like a bundle of dung-cakes. Well, he will not know his death. The boat
cannot live an hour here even if she strike nothing. It is not good to
look at death with a clear eye."

He refreshed himself again from the tin box, squatted down in the bows
of the reeling, pegged, and stitched craft, staring through the mist at
the nothing that was there. A warm drowsiness crept over Findlayson,
the Chief Engineer, whose duty was with his bridge. The heavy raindrops
struck him with a thousand tingling little thrills, and the weight of
all time since time was made hung heavy on his eyelids. He thought and
perceived that he was perfectly secure, for the water was so solid that
a man could surely step out upon it, and, standing still with his legs
apart to keep his balance--this was the most important point--would be
borne with great and easy speed to the shore. But yet a better plan came
to him. It needed only an exertion of will for the soul to hurl the
body ashore as wind drives paper, to waft it kite-fashion to the bank.
Thereafter--the boat spun dizzily--suppose the high wind got under the
freed body? Would it tower up like a kite and pitch headlong on the
far-away sands, or would it duck about, beyond control, through all
eternity? Findlayson gripped the gunnel to anchor himself, for it seemed
that he was on the edge of taking the flight before he had settled all
his plans. Opium has more effect on the white man than the black. Peroo
was only comfortably indifferent to accidents. "She cannot live," he
grunted. "Her seams open already. If she were even a dinghy with oars
we could have ridden it out; but a box with holes is no good. Finlinson
Sahib, she fills."

"Accha! I am going away. Come thou also."

In his mind, Findlayson had already escaped from the boat, and was
circling high in air to find a rest for the sole of his foot. His
body--he was really sorry for its gross helplessness--lay in the stern,
the water rushing about its knees.

"How very ridiculous!" he said to himself, from his eyrie--"that is
Findlayson--chief of the Kashi Bridge. The poor beast is going to
be drowned, too. Drowned when it's close to shore. I'm--I'm onshore
already. Why doesn't it come along."

To his intense disgust, he found his soul back in his body again, and
that body spluttering and choking in deep water. The pain of the reunion
was atrocious, but it was necessary, also, to fight for the body. He was
conscious of grasping wildly at wet sand, and striding prodigiously, as
one strides in a dream, to keep foothold in the swirling water, till
at last he hauled himself clear of the hold of the river, and dropped,
panting, on wet earth.

"Not this night," said Peroo, in his ear. "The Gods have protected
us." The Lascar moved his feet cautiously, and they rustled among dried
stumps. "This is some island of last year's indigo-crop," he went on.
"We shall find no men here; but have great care, Sahib; all the snakes
of a hundred miles have been flooded out. Here comes the lightning,
on the heels of the wind. Now we shall be able to look; but walk
carefully."

Findlayson was far and far beyond any fear of snakes, or indeed any
merely human emotion. He saw, after he had rubbed the water from his
eyes, with an immense clearness, and trod, so it seemed to himself, with
world-encompassing strides. Somewhere in the night of time he had built
a bridge--a bridge that spanned illimitable levels of shining seas; but
the Deluge had swept it away, leaving this one island under heaven for
Findlayson and his companion, sole survivors of the breed of Man.

An incessant lightning, forked and blue, showed all that there was to
be seen on the little patch in the flood--a clump of thorn, a clump
of swaying creaking bamboos, and a grey gnarled peepul overshadowing a
Hindoo shrine, from whose dome floated a tattered red flag. The holy man
whose summer resting-place it was had long since abandoned it, and
the weather had broken the red-daubed image of his god. The two men
stumbled, heavy limbed and heavy-eyed, over the ashes of a brick-set
cooking-place, and dropped down under the shelter of the branches, while
the rain and river roared together.

The stumps of the indigo crackled, and there was a smell of cattle, as a
huge and dripping Brahminee bull shouldered his way under the tree. The
flashes revealed the trident mark of Shiva on his flank, the insolence
of head and hump, the luminous stag-like eyes, the brow crowned with a
wreath of sodden marigold blooms, and the silky dewlap that almost swept
the ground. There was a noise behind him of other beasts coming up
from the floodline through the thicket, a sound of heavy feet and deep
breathing.

"Here be more beside ourselves," said Findlayson, his head against the
tree-pole, looking through half-shut eyes, wholly at ease.

"Truly," said Peroo, thickly, "and no small ones."

"What are they, then? I do not see clearly."

"The Gods. Who else? Look!"

"Ah, true! The Gods surely--the Gods." Findlayson smiled as his head
fell forward on his chest. Peroo was eminently right. After the Flood,
who should be alive in the land except the Gods that made it--the Gods
to whom his village prayed nightly--the Gods who were in all men's
mouths and about all men's ways. He could not raise his head or stir a
finger for the trance that held him, and Peroo was smiling vacantly at
the lightning.

The Bull paused by the shrine, his head lowered to the damp earth. A
green Parrot in the branches preened his wet wings and screamed against
the thunder as the circle under the tree filled with the shifting
shadows of beasts. There was a black Buck at the Bull's heels--such a
Buck as Findlayson in his far-away life upon earth might have seen in
dreams--a Buck with a royal head, ebon back, silver belly, and gleaming
straight horns. Beside him, her head bowed to the ground, the green eyes
burning under the heavy brows, with restless tail switching the dead
grass, paced a Tigress, full-bellied and deep-jowled.

The Bull crouched beside the shrine, and there leaped from the darkness
a monstrous grey Ape, who seated himself man-wise in the place of the
fallen image, and the rain spilled like jewels from the hair of his neck
and shoulders.

Other shadows came and went behind the circle, among them a drunken Man
flourishing staff and drinking-bottle. Then a hoarse bellow broke out
from near the ground. "The flood lessens even now," it cried. "Hour by
hour the water falls, and their bridge still stands!"

"My bridge," said Findlayson to himself. "That must be very old work
now. What have the Gods to do with my bridge?"

His eyes rolled in the darkness following the roar. A Mugger--the
blunt-nosed, ford-haunting Mugger of the Ganges--draggled herself before
the beasts, lashing furiously to right and left with her tail.

"They have made it too strong for me. In all this night I have only torn
away a handful of planks. The walls stand. The towers stand. They have
chained my flood, and the river is not free any more. Heavenly Ones,
take this yoke away! Give me clear water between bank and bank! It is I,
Mother Gunga, that speak. The Justice of the Gods! Deal me the Justice
of the Gods!"

"What said I?" whispered Peroo. "This is in truth a Punchayet of the
Gods. Now we know that all the world is dead, save you and I, Sahib."

The Parrot screamed and fluttered again, and the Tigress, her ears flat
to her head, snarled wickedly.

Somewhere in the shadow, a great trunk and gleaming tusks swayed to and
fro, and a low gurgle broke the silence that followed on the snarl.

"We be here," said a deep voice, "the Great Ones. One only and very
many. Shiv, my father, is here, with Indra. Kali has spoken already.
Hanuman listens also."

"Kashi is without her Kotwal tonight," shouted the Man with the
drinking-bottle, flinging his staff to the ground, while the island rang
to the baying of hounds. "Give her the Justice of the Gods."

"Ye were still when they polluted my waters," the great Crocodile
bellowed. "Ye made no sign when my river was trapped between the walls.
I had no help save my own strength, and that failed--the strength of
Mother Gunga failed--before their guard-towers. What could I do? I have
done everything. Finish now, Heavenly Ones!"

"I brought the death; I rode the spotted sickness from hut to hut of
their workmen, and yet they would not cease." A nose-slitten, hide-worn
Ass, lame, scissor-legged, and galled, limped forward. "I cast the death
at them out of my nostrils, but they would not cease."

Peroo would have moved, but the opium lay heavy upon him.

"Bah!" he said, spitting. "Here is Sitala herself; Mata--the smallpox.
Has the Sahib a handkerchief to put over his face?"

"Little help! They fed me the corpses for a month, and I flung them out
on my sand-bars, but their work went forward. Demons they are, and sons
of demons! And ye left Mother Gunga alone for their fire-carriage to
make a mock of. The Justice of the Gods on the bridge-builders!"

The Bull turned the cud in his mouth and answered slowly: "If the
Justice of the Gods caught all who made a mock of holy things there
would be many dark altars in the land, mother."

"But this goes beyond a mock," said the Tigress, darting forward a
griping paw. "Thou knowest, Shiv, and ye, too, Heavenly Ones; ye know
that they have defiled Gunga. Surely they must come to the Destroyer.
Let Indra judge."

The Buck made no movement as he answered: "How long has this evil been?"

"Three years, as men count years," said the Mugger, close pressed to the
earth.

"Does Mother Gunga die, then, in a year, that she is so anxious to
see vengeance now? The deep sea was where she runs but yesterday, and
tomorrow the sea shall cover her again as the Gods count that which men
call time. Can any say that this their bridge endures till tomorrow?"
said the Buck.

There was along hush, and in the clearing of the storm the full moon
stood up above the dripping trees.

"Judge ye, then," said the River, sullenly. "I have spoken my shame. The
flood falls still. I can do no more."

"For my own part"--it was the voice of the great Ape seated within the
shrine--"it pleases me well to watch these men, remembering that I also
builded no small bridge in the world's youth."

"They say, too," snarled the Tiger, "that these men came of the wreck of
thy armies, Hanuman, and therefore thou hast aided--"

"They toil as my armies toiled in Lanka, and they believe that their
toil endures. Indra is too high, but Shiv, thou knowest how the land is
threaded with their fire-carriages."

"Yea, I know," said the Bull. "Their Gods instructed them in the
matter."

A laugh ran round the circle.

"Their Gods! What should their Gods know? They were born yesterday, and
those that made them are scarcely yet cold," said the Mugger, "tomorrow
their Gods will die."

"Ho!" said Peroo. "Mother Gunga talks good talk. I told that to the
padre-sahib who preached on the Mombassa, and he asked the Burra Malum
to put me in irons for a great rudeness."

"Surely they make these things to please their Gods," said the Bull
again.

"Not altogether," the Elephant rolled forth. "It is for the profit of my
mahajuns fat money-lenders that worship me at each new year, when they
draw my image at the head of the account-books. I, looking over their
shoulders by lamplight, see that the names in the books are those of
men in far places--for all the towns are drawn together by the
fire-carriage, and the money comes and goes swiftly, and the
account-books grow as fat as myself. And I, who am Ganesh of Good Luck,
I bless my peoples."

"They have changed the face of the land-which is my land. They have
killed and made new towns on my banks," said the Mugger.

"It is but the shifting of a little dirt. Let the dirt dig in the dirt
if it pleases the dirt," answered the Elephant.

"But afterwards?" said the Tiger. "Afterwards they will see that Mother
Gunga can avenge no insult, and they fall away from her first, and later
from us all, one by one. In the end, Ganesh, we are left with naked
altars."

The drunken Man staggered to his feet, and hiccupped vehemently.

"Kali lies. My sister lies. Also this my stick is the Kotwal of Kashi,
and he keeps tally of my pilgrims. When the time comes to worship
Bhairon--and it is always time--the fire-carriages move one by one, and
each hears a thousand pilgrims. They do not come afoot any more, but
rolling upon wheels, and my honour is increased."

"Gunga, I have seen thy bed at Pryag black with the pilgrims," said the
Ape, leaning forward, "and but for the fire-carriage they would have
come slowly and in fewer numbers. Remember."

"They come to me always," Bhairon went on thickly. "By day and night
they pray to me, all the Common People in the fields and the roads. Who
is like Bhairon today? What talk is this of changing faiths? Is my staff
Kotwal of Kashi for nothing? He keeps the tally, and he says that never
were so many altars as today, and the fire carriage serves them well.
Bhairon am I--Bhairon of the Common People, and the chiefest of tithe
Heavenly Ones today. Also my staff says--"

"Peace, thou!" lowed the Bull. "The worship of the schools is mine,
and they talk very wisely, asking whether I be one or many, as is the
delight of my people, and ye know what I am. Kali, my wife, thou knowest
also."

"Yea, I know," said the Tigress, with lowered head.

"Greater am I than Gunga also. For ye know who moved the minds of men
that they should count Gunga holy among the rivers. Who die in that
water--ye know how men say--come to us without punishment, and Gunga
knows that the fire-carriage has borne to her scores upon scores of such
anxious ones; and Kali knows that she has held her chiefest festivals
among the pilgrimages that are fed by the fire-carriage. Who smote at
Pooree, under the Image there, her thousands in a day and a night, and
bound the sickness to the wheels of the fire-carriages, so that it
ran from one end of the land to the other? Who but Kali? Before the
fire-carriage came it was a heavy toil. The fire-carriages have served
thee well, Mother of Death. But I speak for mine own altars, who am not
Bhairon of the Common Folk, but Shiv. Men go to and fro, making words
and telling talk of strange Gods, and I listen. Faith follows faith
among my people in the schools, and I have no anger; for when all words
are said, and the new talk is ended, to Shiv men return at the last."

"True. It is true," murmured Hanuman. "To Shiv and to the others,
mother, they return. I creep from temple to temple in the North, where
they worship one God and His Prophet; and presently my image is alone
within their shrines."

"Small thanks," said the Buck, turning his head slowly. "I am that One
and His Prophet also."

"Even so, father," said Hanuman. "And to the South I go who am the
oldest of the Gods as men know the Gods, and presently I touch
the shrines of the New 'Faith and the Woman whom we know is hewn
twelve-armed, and still they call her Mary."

"Small thanks, brother," said the Tigress. "I am that Woman."

"Even so, sister; and I go West among the fire-carriages, and stand
before the bridge-builders in many shapes, and because of me they change
their faiths and are very wise. Ho! ho! I am the builder of bridges,
indeed--bridges between this and that, and each bridge leads surely to
Us in the end. Be content, Gunga.

"Neither these men nor those that follow them mock thee at all."

"Am I alone, then, Heavenly Ones? Shall I smooth out my flood lest
unhappily I bear away their walls? Will Indra dry my springs in the
hills and make me crawl humbly between their wharfs? Shall I bury me in
the sand ere I offend?"

"And all for the sake of a little iron bar with the fire-carriage atop.
Truly, Mother Gunga is always young!" said Ganesh the Elephant. "A
child had not spoken more foolishly. Let the dirt dig in the dirt ere it
return to the dirt. I know only that my people grow rich and praise
me. Shiv has said that the men of the schools do not forget; Bhairon is
content for his crowd of the Common People; and Hanuman laughs."

"Surely I laugh," said the Ape. "My altars are few beside those of
Ganesh or Bhairon, but the fire-carriages bring me new worshippers from
beyond the Black Water--the men who believe that their God is toil. I
run before them beckoning, and they follow Hanuman."

"Give them the toil that they desire, then," said the River. "Make a bar
across my flood and throw the water back upon the bridge. Once thou wast
strong in Lanka, Hanuman. Stoop and lift my bed."

"Who gives life can take life." The Ape scratched in the mud with a long
forefinger. "And yet, who would profit by the killing? Very many would
die."

There came up from the water a snatch of a love-song such as the boys
sing when they watch their cattle in the noon heats of late spring. The
Parrot screamed joyously, sidling along his branch with lowered head as
the song grew louder, and in a patch of clear moonlight stood revealed
the young herd, the darling of the Gopis, the idol of dreaming maids
and of mothers ere their children are born--Krishna the Well-beloved.
He stooped to knot up his long wet hair, and the parrot fluttered to his
shoulder.

"Fleeting and singing, and singing and fleeting," hiccupped Bhairon.
"Those make thee late for the council, brother."

"And then?" said Krishna, with a laugh, throwing back his head. "Ye can
do little without me or Karma here." He fondled the Parrot's plumage
and laughed again. "What is this sitting and talking together? I heard
Mother Gunga roaring in the dark, and so came quickly from a but where I
lay warm. And what have ye done to Karma, that he is so wet and silent?
And what does Mother Gunga here? Are the heavens full that ye must come
paddling in the mud beast-wise? Karma, what do they do?"

"Gunga has prayed for a vengeance on the bridgebuilders, and Kali is
with her. Now she bids Hanuman whelm the bridge, that her honour may be
made great," cried the Parrot. "I waited here, knowing that thou wouldst
come, O my master!"

"And the Heavenly Ones said nothing? Did Gunga and the Mother of Sorrows
out-talk them? Did none speak for my people?"

"Nay," said Ganesh, moving uneasily from foot to foot; "I said it was
but dirt at play, and why should we stamp it flat?"

"I was content to let them toil--well content," said Hanuman.

"What had I to do with Gunga's anger?" said the Bull.

"I am Bhairon of the Common Folk, and this my staff is Kotwal of all
Kashi. I spoke for the Common People."

"Thou?" The young God's eyes sparkled.

"Am I not the first of the Gods in their mouths today?" returned
Bhairon, unabashed. "For the sake of the Common People I said very many
wise things which I have now forgotten, but this my staff--"

Krishna turned impatiently, saw the Mugger at his feet, and kneeling,
slipped an arm round the cold neck. "Mother," he said gently, "get thee
to thy flood again. This matter is not for thee. What harm shall thy
honour take of this live dirt? Thou hast given them their fields new
year after year, and by thy flood they are made strong. They come all to
thee at the last. What need to slay them now? Have pity, mother, for a
little and it is only for a little."

"If it be only for a little--" the slow beast began.

"Are they Gods, then?" Krishna, returned with a laugh, his eyes looking
into the dull eyes of the River. "Be certain that it is only for a
little. The Heavenly Ones have heard thee, and presently justice will
be done. Go now, mother, to the flood again. Men and cattle are thick on
the waters--the banks fall--the villages melt because of thee."

"But the bridge-the bridge stands." The Mugger turned grunting into the
undergrowth as Krishna rose.

"It is ended," said the Tigress, viciously. "There is no more justice
from the Heavenly Ones. Ye have made shame and sport of Gunga, who asked
no more than a few score lives."

"Of my people--who lie under the leaf-roofs of the village yonder--of
the young girls, and the young men who sing to them in the dark of the
child that will be born next morn--of that which was begotten tonight,"
said Krishna. "And when all is done, what profit? Tomorrow sees them at
work. Ay, if ye swept the bridge out from end to end they would begin
anew. Hear me! Bhairon is drunk always. Hanuman mocks his people with
new riddles."

"Nay, but they are very old ones," the Ape said, laughing.

"Shiv hears the talk of the schools and the dreams of the holy men;
Ganesh thinks only of his fat traders; but I--I live with these my
people, asking for no gifts, and so receiving them hourly."

"And very tender art thou of thy people," said the Tigress.

"They are my own. The old women dream of me turning in their sleep; the
maids look and listen for me when they go to fill their lotahs by the
river. I walk by the young men waiting without the gates at dusk, and I
call over my shoulder to the whitebeards. Ye know, Heavenly Ones, that I
alone of us all walk upon the earth continually, and have no pleasure
in our heavens so long as a green blade springs here, or there are two
voices at twilight in the standing crops. Wise are ye, but ye live
far off, forgetting whence ye came. So do I not forget. And the
fire-carriage feeds your shrines, ye say? And the fire-carriages bring
a thousand pilgrims where but ten came in the old years? True. That is
true, today."

"But tomorrow they are dead, brother," said Ganesh.

"Peace!" said the Bull, as Hanuman leaned forward again. "And tomorrow,
beloved--what of tomorrow?"

"This only. A new word creeping from mouth to mouth among the Common
Folk--a word that neither man nor God can lay hold of--an evil word--a
little lazy word among the Common Folk, saying (and none know who set
that word afoot) that they weary of ye, Heavenly Ones."

The Gods laughed together softly. "And then, beloved?" they said.

"And to cover that weariness they, my people, will bring to thee, Shiv,
and to thee, Ganesh, at first greater offerings and a louder noise of
worship. But the word has gone abroad, and, after, they will pay fewer
dues to our fat Brahmins. Next they will forget your altars, but so
slowly that no man can say how his forgetfulness began.

"I knew--I knew! I spoke this also, but they would not hear," said the
Tigress. "We should have slain--we should have slain!"

"It is too late now. Ye should have slain at the beginning when the men
from across the water had taught our folk nothing. Now my people see
their work, and go away thinking. They do not think of the Heavenly Ones
altogether. They think of the fire-carriage and the other things that
the bridge-builders have done, and when your priests thrust forward
hands asking alms, they give a little unwillingly. That is the
beginning, among one or two, or five or ten--for I, moving among my
people, know what is in their hearts."

"And the end, Jester of the Gods? What shall the end be?" said Ganesh.

"The end shall be as it was in the beginning, O slothful son of Shiv!
The flame shall die upon the altars and the prayer upon the tongue till
ye become little Gods again--Gods of the jungle--names that the hunters
of rats and noosers of dogs whisper in the thicket and among the
caves--rag-Gods, pot Godlings of the tree, and the villagemark, as
ye were at the beginning. That is the end, Ganesh, for thee, and for
Bhairon--Bhairon of the Common People."

"It is very far away," grunted Bhairon. "Also, it is a lie."

"Many women have kissed Krishna. They told him this to cheer their own
hearts when the grey hairs came, and he has told us the tale," said the
Bull, below his breath.

"Their Gods came, and we changed them. I took the Woman and made her
twelve-armed. So shall we twist all their Gods," said Hanuman.

"Their Gods! This is no question of their Gods--one or three--man or
woman. The matter is with the people. They move, and not the Gods of the
bridgebuilders," said Krishna.

"So be it. I have made a man worship the fire-carriage as it stood still
breathing smoke, and he knew not that he worshipped me," said Hanuman
the Ape. "They will only change a little the names of their Gods.
I shall lead the builders of the bridges as of old; Shiv shall be
worshipped in the schools by such as doubt and despise their fellows;
Ganesh shall have his mahajuns, and Bhairon the donkey-drivers, the
pilgrims, and the sellers of toys. Beloved, they will do no more than
change the names, and that we have seen a thousand times."

"Surely they will do no more than change the names," echoed Ganesh; but
there was an uneasy movement among the Gods.

"They will change more than the names. Me alone they cannot kill, so
long as a maiden and a man meet together or the spring follows the
winter rains. Heavenly Ones, not for nothing have I walked upon the
earth. My people know not now what they know; but I, who live with
them, I read their hearts. Great Kings, the beginning of the end is born
already. The fire-carriages shout the names of new Gods that are not the
old under new names. Drink now and eat greatly! Bathe your faces in the
smoke of the altars before they grow cold! Take dues and listen to the
cymbals and the drums, Heavenly Ones, while yet there are flowers and
songs. As men count time the end is far off; but as we who know reckon
it is today. I have spoken."

The young God ceased, and his brethren looked at each other long in
silence.

"This I have not heard before," Peroo whispered in his companion's ear.
"And yet sometimes, when I oiled the brasses in the engine-room of the
Goorkha, I have wondered if our priests were so wise--so wise. The day
is coming, Sahib. They will be gone by the morning."

A yellow light broadened in the sky, and the tone of the river changed
as the darkness withdrew.

Suddenly the Elephant trumpeted aloud as though man had goaded him.

"Let Indra judge. Father of all, speak thou! What of the things we have
heard? Has Krishna lied indeed? Or--"

"Ye know," said the Buck, rising to his feet. "Ye know the Riddle of the
Gods. When Brahm ceases to dream, the Heavens and the Hells and Earth
disappear. Be content. Brahm dreams still. The dreams come and go, and
the nature of the dreams changes, but still Brahm dreams. Krishna has
walked too long upon earth, and yet I love him the more for the tale he
has told. The Gods change, beloved-all save One!"

"Ay, all save one that makes love in the hearts of men," said Krishna,
knotting his girdle. "It is but a little time to wait, and ye shall know
if I lie."

"Truly it is but a little time, as thou sayest, and we shall know. Get
thee to thy huts again, beloved, and make sport for the young things,
for still Brahm dreams. Go, my children! Brahm dreams--and till he wakes
the Gods die not."

"Whither went they?" said the Lascar, awe-struck, shivering a little
with the cold.

"God knows!" said Findlayson. The river and the island lay in full
daylight now, and there was never mark of hoof or pug on the wet earth
under the peepul. Only a parrot screamed in the branches, bringing down
showers of water-drops as he fluttered his wings.

"Up! We are cramped with cold! Has the opium died out? Canst thou move,
Sahib?"

Findlayson staggered to his feet and shook himself. His head swam
and ached, but the work of the opium was over, and, as he sluiced his
forehead in a pool, the Chief Engineer of the Kashi Bridge was wondering
how he had managed to fall upon the island, what chances the day offered
of return, and, above all, how his work stood.

"Peroo, I have forgotten much. I was under the guard-tower watching the
river; and then. . . . Did the flood sweep us away?"

"No. The boats broke loose, Sahib, and" (if the Sahib had forgotten
about the opium, decidedly Peroo would not remind him) "in striving to
retie them, so it seemed to me--but it was darka rope caught the Sahib
and threw him upon a boat. Considering that we two, with Hitchcock
Sahib, built, as it were, that bridge, I came also upon the boat, which
came riding on horseback, as it were, on the nose of this island, and
so, splitting, cast us ashore. I made a great cry when the boat left the
wharf, and without doubt Hitchcock Sahib will come for us. As for the
bridge, so many have died in the building that it cannot fall."

A fierce sun, that drew out all the smell of the sodden land, had
followed the storm, and in that clear light there was no room for a man
to think of the dreams of the dark. Findlayson stared up-stream, across
the blaze of moving water, till his eyes ached. There was no sign of any
bank to the Ganges, much less of a bridgeline.

"We came down far," he said. "It was wonderful that we were not drowned
a hundred times."

"That was the least of the wonder, for no man dies before his time.
I have seen Sydney, I have seen London, and twenty great ports,
but"--Peroo looked at the damp, discoloured shrine under the
peopul--"never man has seen that we saw here."

"What?"

"Has the Sahib forgotten; or do we black men only see the Gods?"

"There was a fever upon me." Findlayson was still looking uneasily
across the water. "It seemed that the island was full of beasts and men
talking, but I do not remember. A boat could live in this water now, I
think."

"Oho! Then it is true. 'When Brahm ceases to dream, the Gods die.' Now I
know, indeed, what he meant. Once, too, the guru said as much to me; but
then I did not understand. Now I am wise."

"What?" said Findlayson, over his shoulder.

Peroo went on as if he were talking to himself. "Six-seven-ten monsoons
since, I was watch on the fo'c'sle of the ehwah--the Kumpani's big
boat-and there was a big tufan; green and black water beating, and I
held fast to the life-lines, choking under the waters. Then I thought
of the Gods--of Those whom we saw tonight"--he stared curiously at
Findlayson's back, but the white man was looking across the flood. "Yes,
I say of Those whom we saw this night past, and I called upon Them to
protect me. And while I prayed, still keeping my lookout, a big wave
came and threw me forward upon the ring of the great black bowanchor,
and the Rewah rose high and high, leaning towards the lefthand side,
and the water drew away from beneath her nose, and I lay upon my belly,
holding the ring, and looking down into those great deeps. The
Father is in the greatest danger. - What is his disease - A rare
disease in which the strong and blood in weak and Entec, and, therefore,
in these much more dangerous. Perhaps hardest workers, outrageous upsets,
long vigils, the agitation of the soul and fire severely restrained
compressed passions, work mysteriously in our bodies and promote this
explosion: the heart swells, becomes an unhealthy and irregular, and
suddenly floods the brain with blood. - What does V. with all that mean
- I mean your nephew you have a fulminant apoplegía. Acisclo Don, who
loved his nephew, who considered the complement of the glory of his
family, he was the other complement had a sincere and deep pain, and
stimulated with prayers and laments the zeal of the physician. he
did not need incentives.

Wanted to return health to the Father but he knew that his situation
was desperate, that only a miracle could save him, and he did not
believe in miracles.

Humanely, meanwhile, knew he could and soon. Did not want to bleed
the patient because he was too weak, but gave the strongest and
best-known drugs for these cases. In order to prevent or to cede to the
inflammation of the membranes of the head, put him in a caustic
back together to the neck, and he used a lever to draw blood and
heat to the extremities.

All, however, was in vain. The news of the illness of Father ran away
by the place and reached the ears of Doña Luz , who came to see him
instantly. Who knows the strange and sad thoughts that torment Doña Luz,
when he entered the room where the father was in bed in the room she
had occupied it until she married and where he slept for more than twelve
years? Silent and serious doña Luz came to the bedside. There, with his
head lifted and supported by several pillows, was the Father without
any sign of knowledge. The eyes as asleep, environments eyelids, the
tongue moves.

Maybe I felt, saw and understood yet, but had no means of communicating
their feelings due to lack of muscle strength.

Long time he looked doña Luz without saying word. Finally broke into bitter
weeping. Then sat in a chair in the darkest corner of the bedroom, and
remained silent and crying, and tried to forget his presence there.
With the turmoil of the three attendants of the patient, there was a
time when they left him alone with Ms light. She then rose from his
seat, and look again with peer, with obstinacy, with invincible
attraction, as when the traveler is on the brink of an abyss the
abyss looks that attracted him, and anxious to see what's what deep
and dark in her womb. doña Luz Tears gushed with greater abundance
then.

Believed, as ever, with more vehemence than ever, that the man was dead
and his Christ appeared. Imagined, or was in effect, that the Father,
still, felt and understood it back in and looked in an effort to dominate
even with the brilliance of will, nerve and muscle inert no longer
obey him.

Understood, finally, that the look of the supplicant was sick, love,
sadly sweet. For an irresistible impulse, deeply moved, almost without
realizing it, without hesitation and without thinking too, as it does
not hesitate or think what moves driven by a fatal Doña Luz approached
gently to the face of the Father, and placed in the mouth macilenta
his forehead, and then sleeping in their eyelids, and then in her
mouth, and contracted, and kissed with fervent devotion, as one who
kisses relics.

It was more Doña Luz. Exhale a woe! Acute fainted and fell on the floor.
The father remained motionless as before.

Don Anselmo, D. Acisclo Ramón and went away. - What nonsense! - Said
Don Anselmo -. What we have left here alone with this lady? This
lady is very vehement, and should not be here. In addition, the patient
needs solitude. Doña Luz was recovered a little, and resisted the last
words of Mr Anselmo, who was able to hear and understand well,
Father left the room. Three hours later Fr Enrique had ceased to exist.
Rare is the man whose memory survives long years of death.

The time just to grief, the body consumes the earth and oblivion
swallows memories. But always or almost always, a little death
occurs for every man the time of greatest indulgence, affection and
estimate that the world gives.

Those who are unaware of the strong as insignificant, think of him
when he died, because death makes it more worthy of commemoration
of his life; _realiza its esencia_, as the philosophers to fashion:
those who envied him lay the envy, the you hated hatred, those who
were tired of seeing inwardly rejoice that you no longer see, and
for the joy of relief, and avoid coming at night, in pain, pulling
on the feet, making him the highest praise, all of their flaws
disappear anytime soon, as if sinking into the grave, and only see
their perfections in resolution, the dead are dying reconciles with
almost all mankind, so that it always goes away and leaves inherit
something: if not fifth and palaces, one for begging in the sun.

Either way, with the death of the Father, from whom, except the places,
and nobody did Villafría case, there was a place around the resurgence
of enthusiasm and affection towards him. Came to admire and to celebrate
a thousand times more than in the days of their arrival. We just had
the same treaty, vulgar imagination could invent and fantasize at will.
Their virtues were weighted. Were brought to light many works of mercy
that he indeed did.

Bordeaux is the simple story of his death with a thousand details
that played in the marvelous. Beatas assumed that it was the same Father
announced the exact day and hour of his glorious transit, and many
credited that he had died in the odor of sanctity, and that gift should
try to canonize Acisclo sent to Rome for this purpose a file Clavet well.
Some skeptics of the place wanted to imply that all that was said to
flatter Acisclo Don, who really regretted the death of nephew and
praised in all the tones that he could use. Otherwise, disbelief and
gullible, or by making a chorus D. Acisclo either because they feel,
all agreed that the dead had been what is called a beautiful subject,
full of kindness and discretion, and even holy, understanding each
other's holiness in their own way. No one, however, cried with more
tenderness, had more serious penalty for the death of Fr Enrique that the
person knew or believed to have evidence that he was not holy at all.
Doña Luz during the early days was desolate. Built up unique brooding
penalty. On the one hand some pride when he returned to believe
that she had instilled a passion killer, and then the horror it caused
such pride, otherwise the confused and vague remorse suspicion that she
instinctively abhorrent, without reflection, birth had caused and
done that before so lost in soul and blissfully quiet, and finally
everything was clear that their dream of vanity.

Is not Ms Luz could have forged a novel? What the Father had told
him to believe in love? He had died of love or stroke? The romantic, the
sentimental was she who kissed him madly when expired. "If I have
been lighter, the watermelon and extravagant? If I must have been love
with the monk, who believed in me but not with paternal affection,
innocent and simple? ". Doña Luz Al ruminate and filled with shame
and trembling like a azogue and is angry with herself, tried
criminal, crazy and up infidel. While this was happening in the spirit
of Doña Luz, gift Acisclo divided among their children or keep for
themselves and the few poor articles that Father had left, and that
more had to be preserved as sacred by the memory that they had
little worth.

In this partition reserved D. Doña Luz Acisclo for the few books
that the friar had.

There was unaware D. Acisclo the father was writing a book until he
thought it might give the appearance, although it had been incomplete.
To get the manuscript, he found, and considering that the only two
people capable of understanding in place what he called a _monserga_
were D.

Anselmo and Doña Luz, and D. Anselmo did not appreciate being wicked as
well as the _monserga_ Doña Luz, who was a believer, do not hesitate
to bring the manuscript to doña Luz, even without opening its pages,
because it hampered the black, as accounts were not winning and he
left reaching in its favor.

Doña Luz received the manuscript of the revered Father, and not well
D. Acisclo left alone, he opened with eager curiosity and began to read.
In his impatience hojeaba and walked all the pages, devouring its
contents on the fly, trying to understand the whole, and then
leaving to read everything carefully.

A bit of browsing, was doña Luz with loose leaves. His look was fixed on
them. The heart told him to shut something very interesting.
Then to read the break, with interruptions, with frequent
interruptions, because the tears in their eyes crowded and cegaba
and not consenting to read. In each of these inevitable interruptions,
in a low voice as if afraid to be heard, interspersed with words of grief,
exclaimed Dona Luz: - It was true. It was true. I loved my God! How
much, how much they loved me! In the latter, and then beyond what we know,
the day before his death, Fr Henry had written the following, Doña Luz
also read: "These pages, unless the trait or burn, Iran invariably, after
I die, at her beautiful hands. Even then I am not ashamed that she
knows my love. Sorry, my God, my new fault. I want her to know. In what
the know and that may disturb the peace of his noble life? She has loved
me, she loves me like an angel to love a saint, and I've loved as a man
loves a woman. It would be hypocritical if I did not reveal that angels
do not deserve your love, that I loved as loves a sinner. It is
necessary for my eternal sleep she will forgive me for having
become the balm and poison their innocent affection incentive
vicious, for having fed the pure light of her eyes that this fire
of hell burns me how clean and stain your image I have been engraved in
the soul. Although you, my God, even though you and against you, bearing
the indelible traits. All the brilliance of my will, the strength of
heaven, all the punishments of hell can not boot from there. Doña Luz and
the love of Doña Luz live immortal life in my spirit. "When you're
done reading, Doña Luz pain became more acute, the most abundant
tears came to his eyes and the sobs that seemed to drown iban, but
looks like the iris between the black clouds, a sweet smile of
triumph and gratitude for that love, which only asked for forgiveness,
and shone in the fresh red lips of a gentle lady. nineteenth-embassy
D.

Gregorio Sadness Doña Luz past few days, it was more bitter than
sweet: while not stop being sad, it was mitigated by the satisfaction
he felt doña Luz have inspired sympathy so alive, for the statement
made by the same father, she was not pretty, and the acquittal,
which it gave, after a very rigorous examination of conscience.

Doña Luz was not the fault of that love appreciation, nor of his death
that he regretted. His friendship, admiration and reverence to the
Father could not have been higher. If Father would have inspired a
more lively feeling, she had sinned against God, against the world,
against his honor and his dignity. However, his love for D . Jaime
was legitimate, correct, according to the type and position of
her, and founded, finally, causes no less poetic love than by P.

Henry, if it had been lawful, it had been felt. In order to strengthen
and magnify the causes of love poetry that was a D.

James, Doña Luz estimated high of D. Jaime to her. His disinterest was
evident. He has found hundreds of the best parties in Madrid. Would
have easily titled Women and income, just who has searched.

Don Jaime was certainly neglected by the most brilliant weddings. Then
the adored Don Jaime. AND D.

Jaime, elegant, noble family, full of future, honored and respected as
a skilful and courageous captain and soldier, proud to be one woman
who gave her name and his hand. D.

Jaime also was still young, dashing and arrogant figure, discreet
and fun. The letters he wrote from Madrid Doña Luz showed her love for
the tender and loving and their wits and their wit, so well written
and thank you and that haul included.

Doña Luz, therefore, in view of the above agreed with herself that her
husband was enamoradísima, they had reason to be and to have
married him, and his tenderness for parent friendly and the tears
that poured through his death, and even the kisses that had given
, were of a very different, which in no way opposed or alter, or
modify in an apex, or loosen a single point in the bond of love and
marriage to a D.

Jaime the link. And missing a few days to D. Jaime back for her. Already
he had taken home by the way, and almost had furnished.

Had already taken the title. Spouses and could be called the Marquis of
Villafría. Jaime was going to arrive within one week, and it was already
Wednesday. Doña Luz was in his room, had just returned from church and
had prayed fervently for the soul of Fr Enrique, who continually and
tender and melancholy thought, when Jane, the maid, saying: - Madam,
a stranger wants to talk to USIA. - Your name - Don Gregorio
Salinas. - I do not know him .

What look like? - Rather good as bad. Comes very decently dressed, but
on the road. It is known that just arrived.

Alice Chaos is, plump, red as a beet, and smiled as if pleased.
However, was in mourning. - Look, Jane, I have no desire to receive
visitors.

Tell him I have a headache, back again if you have something important
to say that today no receipt. Juana came to the message, and then
returned with a letter put in the hands of Doña Luz. - Don Gregorio
Salinas - Juana said - I just deliver the letter, ensuring that it
will be admitted as USIA read.

Said that the letter is his credential. Doña Luz, as it took the letter
and watched the superscript, was amazed. He acknowledged the letter
from his father.

The opened hastily, and looked at the signature.

It was also his father. He read the date right away and saw that the
letter was written for more than fifteen years.

The letter was laconic. No more than these words: 'Dear daughter: The
bearer of this letter will be Don Gregorio Salinas, Madrid notary,
person of my confidence.

Gives full credit to what you say; Oyelaran and atiéndele and accept
and receive it without the slightest compunction, that offers and
delivers. "- Passing out that gentleman - Doña Luz said.

Juana went looking, and D. Gregory entered the room where doña Luz was.
After completion of the usual sitting Doña Luz and hitherto unknown
guest in comfortable seats, he spoke with sleep and who has a lot
to say, as follows: -- USIA-You know that my name is Gregorio
Salinas.

Now I am a scribe and I am not wrong goods fortune. Ventiocho years ago
I was a poor student, without a penny in my pocket, but instead,
nor fat, had no gray hair, or bald, or wrinkled, and the people
stated, USIA forgive the immodesty that I remember that I was a
nice kid, smart and funny.

This is not surprising, therefore, to be in love with my wife of one
of my outstanding merit Joaquina. Joaquina This is my wife, to
serve USIA.

I love USIA and sends me a thousand respectful and affectionate terms. -
Thank you - Doña Luz said, breaking Don Gregorio -. V. Treatment and let
you call me, and also forgive me if I say frankly that relieves
her story because I'm curious. - Have V. calm lady marchioness;
have V. calm.

I promise not to be tedious or annoying. Iré al grano. Do not believe you
that nothing I say is a smoke straws.

Everything you need to V. becomes aware. - Come, follow V., and again to
forgive my interruption. - Well, as I was saying - continued D.

Gregory - My wife is now a matronaza guapetona still fresh and although
the years do not go in vain. Five children has given me five dollars.
All orders are V., Mrs marquesa.

Then, when the engagement was a girl of my Joaquina the most select
that walking in Madrid, and served as a maiden lady some of the
most encopetadas whose privacy was complete and all its most intimate
secrets possessed. -- And how this lady was called - The Exma.

Ms. Countess of Fajalauza. Doña Luz, who hears a name like that
for the first time sounds in your ears, shrugged and was silent. D.
Gregory continued speaking: - Much should my wife and I to this lady.
She married us, she protected us, and she gave us the means conducive
to reach the welfare and prosperity we have come. God will increase
and we pay for glory. Well you deserve it because, finally, if an
offense committed in this naughty world was his purgatory.

The Countess was married to Mr terrible to be known today. All you
shaking, starting with his wife. He had several sets of the callers of
honor, and weighed three deaths and several injuries on his
conscience.

"There's a deal to be forgiven to ignorance," said the yellow horse,
with an ugly look in his blue eye.

"Seemin'ly, yes; or some folks 'u'd ha' been kicked raound the pasture
'bout onct a minute sence they came--board er no board."

"But what you do not understand, if you will excuse me, madam, is that
the whole principle o' servitood, which includes keep an' feed, starts
from a radically false basis; an' I am proud to say that me an' the
majority o' the horses o' Kansas think the entire concern should be
relegated to the limbo of exploded superstitions. I say we're too
progressive for that. I say we're too enlightened for that. 'Twas good
enough's long's we didn't think, but naow--but naow--a new loominary has
arisen on the horizon!"

"Meanin' you?" said the Deacon.

"The horses o' Kansas are behind me with their multitoodinous thunderin'
hooves, an' we say, simply but grandly, that we take our stand with all
four feet on the inalienable rights of the horse, pure and simple,--the
high-toned child o' nature, fed by the same wavin' grass, cooled by the
same ripplin' brook--yes, an' warmed by the same gen'rous sun as falls
impartially on the outside an' the inside of the pampered machine o'
the trottin'-track, or the bloated coupe-horses o' these yere Eastern
cities. Are we not the same flesh an' blood?"

"Not by a bushel an' a half," said the Deacon, under his breath.
"Grandee never was in Kansas."

"My! Ain't that elegant, though, abaout the wavin' grass an' the
ripplin' brooks?" Tuck whispered in Nip's ear. "The gentleman's real
convincin' I think."

"I say we are the same flesh an' blood! Are we to be separated, horse
from horse, by the artificial barriers of a trottin'-record, or are we
to look down upon each other on the strength o' the gifts o' nature--an
extry inch below the knee, or slightly more powerful quarters? What's
the use o' them advantages to you? Man the Oppressor comes along, an'
sees you're likely an' good-lookin', an' grinds you to the face o' the
earth. What for? For his own pleasure: for his own convenience! Young
an' old, black an' bay, white an' grey, there's no distinctions made
between us. We're ground up together under the remorseless teeth o' the
engines of oppression!"

"Guess his breechin' must ha' broke goin' daown-hill," said the Deacon.
"Slippery road, maybe, an' the buggy come onter him, an' he didn't know
'nough to hold back. That don't feel like teeth, though. Maybe he busted
a shaft, an' it pricked him."

"An' I come to you from Kansas, wavin' the tail o' friendship to all
an' sundry, an' in the name of the uncounted millions o' pure-minded,
high-toned horses now strugglin' towards the light o' freedom, I say to
you, Rub noses with us in our sacred an' holy cause. The power is yourn.
Without you, I say, Man the Oppressor cannot move himself from place to
place. Without you he cannot reap, he cannot sow, he cannot plough."

"Mighty odd place, Kansas!" said Marcus Aurelius Antoninus. "Seemin'ly
they reap in the spring an' plough in the fall. 'Guess it's right fer
them, but 'twould make me kinder giddy."

"The produc's of your untirin' industry would rot on the ground if you
did not weakly consent to help him. Let 'em rot, I say! Let him call you
to the stables in vain an' nevermore! Let him shake his ensnarin' oats
under your nose in vain! Let the Brahmas roost in the buggy, an' the
rats run riot round the reaper! Let him walk on his two hind feet till
they blame well drop off! Win no more soul-destroyn' races for his
pleasure! Then, an' not till then, will Man the Oppressor know where
he's at. Quit workin', fellow-sufferers an' slaves! Kick! Rear! Plunge!
Lie down on the shafts, an' woller! Smash an' destroy! The conflict will
be but short, an' the victory is certain. After that we can press our
inalienable rights to eight quarts o' oats a day, two good blankets, an'
a fly-net an' the best o' stablin'."

The yellow horse shut his yellow teeth with a triumphant snap; and Tuck
said, with a sigh: "Seems's if somethin' ought to be done. Don't seem
right, somehow,--oppressin' us an all,--to my way o' thinkin'."

Said Muldoon, in a far-away and sleepy voice:

"Who in Vermont's goin' to haul de inalienable oats? Dey weigh like Sam
Hill, an' sixty bushel at dat allowance ain't goin' to last t'ree weeks
here. An' dere's de winter hay for five mont's!"

"We can settle those minor details when the great cause is won," said
the yellow horse. "Let us return simply but grandly to our inalienable
rights--the right o' freedom on these yere verdant hills, an' no
invijjus distinctions o' track an' pedigree:"

"What in stables 'jer call an invijjus distinction?" said the Deacon,
stiffly.

"Fer one thing, bein' a bloated, pampered trotter jest because you
happen to be raised that way, an' couldn't no more help trottin' than
eatin'."

"Do ye know anythin' about trotters?" said the Deacon.

"I've seen 'em trot. That was enough for me. I don't want to know any
more. Trottin''s immoral."

"Waal, I'll tell you this much. They don't bloat, an' they don't
pamp--much. I don't hold out to be no trotter myself, though I am free
to say I had hopes that way--onct. But I do say, fer I've seen 'em
trained, that a trotter don't trot with his feet: he trots with his
head; an' he does more work--ef you know what that is--in a week than
you er your sire ever done in all your lives. He's everlastingly at it,
a trotter is; an' when he isn't, he's studyin' haow. You seen 'em
trot? Much you hev! You was hitched to a rail, back o' the stand, in
a buckboard with a soap-box nailed on the slats, an' a frowzy buff'lo
atop, while your man peddled rum fer lemonade to little boys as
thought they was actin' manly, till you was both run off the track an'
jailed--you intoed, shufflin', sway-backed, wind-suckin' skate, you!"

"Don't get het up, Deacon," said Tweezy, quietly. "Now, suh, would you
consider a fox-trot, an' single-foot, an' rack, an' pace, an' amble,
distinctions not worth distinguishin'? I assuah you, gentlemen, there
was a time befo' I was afflicted in my hip, if you'll pardon me, Miss
Tuck, when I was quite celebrated in Paduky for all those gaits; an
in my opinion the Deacon's co'rect when he says that a ho'se of any
position in society gets his gaits by his haid, an' not by--his, ah,
limbs, Miss Tuck. I reckon I'm very little good now, but I'm rememberin'
the things I used to do befo' I took to transpo'tin' real estate with
the help an' assistance of this gentleman here." He looked at Muldoon.

"Invijjus arterficial hind legs!" said the ex-carhorse, with a grunt of
contempt. "On de Belt Line we don't reckon no horse wuth his keep 'less
he kin switch de car off de track, run her round on de cobbles, an' dump
her in ag'in ahead o' de truck what's blockin' him. Dere is a way o'
swingin' yer quarters when de driver says, 'Yank her out, boys!' dat
takes a year to learn. Onct yer git onter it, youse kin yank a cable-car
outer a manhole. I don't advertise myself for no circus-horse, but I
knew dat trick better than most, an' dey was good to me in de stables,
fer I saved time on de Belt--an' time's what dey hunt in N' York."

"But the simple child o' nature--" the yellow horse began.

"Oh, go an' unscrew yer splints! You're talkin' through yer bandages,"
said Muldoon, with a horse-laugh. "Dere ain't no loose-box for de simple
child o' nature on de Belt Line, wid de Paris comin' in an' de Teutonic
goin' out, an' de trucks an' de coupe's sayin' things, an' de heavy
freight movin' down fer de Boston boat 'bout t'ree o'clock of an August
afternoon, in de middle of a hot wave when de fat Kanucks an' Western
horses drops dead on de block. De simple child o' nature had better
chase himself inter de water. Every man at de end of his lines is mad
or loaded or silly, an' de cop's madder an' loadeder an' sillier than
de rest. Dey all take it outer de horses. Dere's no wavin' brooks ner
ripplin' grass on de Belt Line. Run her out on de cobbles wid de sparks
flyin', an' stop when de cop slugs you on de bone o' yer nose. Dat's
N'York; see?

"I was always told s'ciety in Noo York was dreffle refined an'
high-toned," said Tuck. "We're lookin' to go there one o' these days,
Nip an' me."

"Oh, you won't see no Belt business where you'll go, miss. De man
dat wants you'll want bad, an' he'll summer you on Long Island er at
Newport, wid a winky-pinky silver harness an' an English coachman.
You'll make a star-hitch, you an' yer brother, miss. But I guess you
won't have no nice smooth bar bit. Dey checks 'em, an' dey bangs deir
tails, an' dey bits 'em, de city folk, an' dey says it's English, ye
know, an' dey darsen't cut a horse loose 'ca'se o' de cops. N' York's no
place fer a horse, 'less he's on de Belt, an' can go round wid de boys.
Wisht I was in de Fire Department!"

"But did you never stop to consider the degradin' servitood of it all?"
said the yellow horse.

"You don't stop on de Belt, cully. You're stopped. An' we was all in de
servitood business, man an' horse, an' Jimmy dat sold de papers. Guess
de passengers weren't out to grass neither, by de way dey acted. I done
my turn, an' I'm none o' Barnum's crowd; but any horse dat's worked on
de Belt four years don't train wid no simple child o' nature--not by de
whole length o' N' York."

"But can it be possible that with your experience, and at your time of
life, you do not believe that all horses are free and equal?" said the
yellow horse.

"Not till they're dead," Muldoon answered quietly. "An' den it depends
on de gross total o' buttons an' mucilage dey gits outer youse at Barren
Island."

"They tell me you're a prominent philosopher." The yellow horse turned
to Marcus. "Can you deny a basic and pivotal statement such as this?"

"I don't deny anythin'," said Marcus Aurelius Antoninus, cautiously;
"but ef you ast me, I should say 'twuz more different sorts o' clipped
oats of a lie than anythin' I've had my teeth into sence I wuz foaled."

"Are you a horse?" said the yellow horse.

"Them that knows me best 'low I am."

"Ain't I a horse?"

"Yep; one kind of."

"Then ain't you an' me equal?"

"How fer kin you go in a day to a loaded buggy, drawin' five hundred
pounds?" Marcus asked carelessly.

"That has nothing to do with the case," the yellow horse answered
excitedly.

"There's nothing I know hez more to do with the case," Marcus replied.

"Kin ye yank a full car outer de tracks ten times in de mornin'?" said
Muldoon.

"Kin ye go to Keene--forty-two mile in an afternoon--with a mate," said
Rick; "an' turn out bright an' early next mornin'?"

"Was there evah any time in your careah, suh--I am not referrin' to
the present circumstances, but our mutual glorious past--when you could
carry a pretty girl to market hahnsome, an' let her knit all the way on
account o' the smoothness o' the motion?" said Tweezy.

"Kin you keep your feet through the West River Bridge, with the
narrer-gage comin' in on one side, an' the Montreal flyer the other, an'
the old bridge teeterin' between?" said the Deacon. "Kin you put your
nose down on the cow-catcher of a locomotive when you're waitin' at the
depot an' let 'em play 'Curfew shall not ring to-night' with the big
brass bell?"

"Kin you hold back when the brichin' breaks? Kin you stop fer orders
when your nigh hind leg's over your trace an' ye feel good of a frosty
mornin'?" said Nip, who had only learned that trick last winter, and
thought it was the crown of horsely knowledge.

"What's the use o' talk in'?" said Tedda Gabler, scornfully. "What kin
ye do?"

"I rely on my simple rights--the inalienable rights o' my unfettered
horsehood. An' I am proud to say I have never, since my first shoes,
lowered myself to obeyin' the will o' man."

"'Must ha' had a heap o' whips broke over yer yaller back," said Tedda.
"Hev ye found it paid any?"

"Sorrer has been my portion since the day I was foaled. Blows an' boots
an' whips an' insults--injury, outrage, an' oppression. I would not
endoor the degradin' badges o' servitood that connect us with the buggy
an' the farm-wagon."

"It's amazin' difficult to draw a buggy 'thout traces er collar er
breast-strap er somefin'," said Marcus. "A Power-machine for sawin' wood
is most the only thing there's no straps to. I've helped saw 's much as
three cord in an afternoon in a Power-machine. Slep', too, most o' the
time, I did; but 'tain't half as interestin' ez goin' daown-taown in the
Concord."

"Concord don't hender you goin' to sleep any," said Nip. "My
throat-lash! D'you remember when you lay down in the sharves last week,
waitin' at the piazza?"

"Pshaw! That didn't hurt the sharves. They wuz good an' wide, an' I
lay down keerful. The folks kep' me hitched up nigh an hour 'fore they
started; an' larfed--why, they all but lay down themselves with larfin'.
Say, Boney, if you've got to be hitched to anything that goes on wheels,
you've got to be hitched with somefin'."

"Go an' jine a circus," said Muldoon, "an' walk on your hind legs. All
de horses dat knows too much to work [he pronounced it 'woik,' New York
fashion] jine de circus."

"I am not sayin' anythin' again' work," said the yellow horse; "work is
the finest thing in the world."

"'Seems too fine fer some of us," Tedda snorted.

"I only ask that each horse should work for himself, an' enjoy the
profit of his labours. Let him work intelligently, an' not as a
machine."

"There ain't no horse that works like a machine," Marcus began.

"There's no way o' workin' that doesn't mean goin' to pole er
single--they never put me in the Power-machine--er under saddle," said
Rick.

"Oh, shucks! We're talkin' same ez we graze," said Nip, "raound an'
raound in circles. Rod, we hain't heard from you yet, an' you've more
know-how than any span here."

Rod, the off-horse of the pair, had been standing with one hip lifted,
like a tired cow; and you could only tell by the quick flutter of the
haw across his eye, from time to time, that he was paying any attention
to the argument. He thrust his jaw out sidewise, as his habit is when he
pulls, and changed his leg. His voice was hard and heavy, and his ears
were close to his big, plain Hambletonian head.

"How old are you?" he said to the yellow horse.

"Nigh thirteen, I guess."

"Mean age; ugly age; I'm gettin' that way myself. How long hev ye been
pawin' this firefanged stable-litter?"

"If you mean my principles, I've held 'em sence I was three."

"Mean age; ugly age; teeth give heaps o' trouble then. 'Set a colt to
actin' crazy fer a while. You've kep' it up, seemin'ly. D'ye talk much
to your neighbours fer a steady thing?"

"I uphold the principles o' the Cause wherever I am pastured."

"'Done a heap o' good, I guess?"

"I am proud to say I have taught a few of my companions the principles
o' freedom an' liberty."

"Meanin' they ran away er kicked when they got the chanst?"

"I was talkin' in the abstrac', an' not in the concrete. My teachin's
educated them."

"What a horse, specially a young horse, hears in the abstrac', he's
liable to do in the Concord. You was handled late, I presoom."

"Four, risin' five."

"That's where the trouble began. Driv' by a woman, like ez not--eh?"

"Not fer long," said the yellow horse, with a snap of his teeth.

"Spilled her?"

"I heerd she never drove again."

"Any childern?"

"Buckboards full of 'em."

"Men too?"

"I have shed conside'ble men in my time."

"By kickin'?"

"Any way that come along. Fallin' back over the dash is as handy as
most."

"They must be turr'ble afraid o' you daown taown?"

"They've sent me here to get rid o' me. I guess they spend their time
talkin' over my campaigns."

"I wanter know!"

"Yes, sir. Now, all you gentlemen have asked me what I can do. I'll just
show you. See them two fellers lyin' down by the buggy?"

"Yep; one of 'em owns me. T'other broke me," said Rod.

"Get 'em out here in the open, an' I'll show you something. Lemme hide
back o' you peoples, so's they won't see what I'm at."

"Meanin' ter kill 'em?" Rod drawled. There was a shudder of horror
through the others; but the yellow horse never noticed.

"I'll catch 'em by the back o' the neck, an' pile-drive 'em a piece.
They can suit 'emselves about livin' when I'm through with 'em."

"'Shouldn't wonder ef they did," said Rod. The yellow horse had hidden
himself very cleverly behind the others as they stood in a group, and
was swaying his head close to the ground with a curious scythe-like
motion, looking side-wise out of his wicked eyes. You can never mistake
a man-eater getting ready to knock a man down. We had had one to pasture
the year before.

"See that?" said my companion, turning over on the pine-needles. "Nice
for a woman walking 'cross lots, wouldn't it be?"

"Bring 'em out!" said the yellow horse, hunching his sharp back.
"There's no chance among them tall trees. Bring out the--oh! Ouch!"

It was a right-and-left kick from Muldoon. I had no idea that the old
car-horse could lift so quickly. Both blows caught the yellow horse full
and fair in the ribs, and knocked the breath out of him.

"What's that for?" he said angrily, when he recovered himself; but I
noticed he did not draw any nearer to Muldoon than was necessary.

Muldoon never answered, but discoursed to himself in the whining grunt
that he uses when he is going down-hill in front of a heavy load. We
call it singing; but I think it's something much worse, really. The
yellow horse blustered and squealed a little, and at last said that, if
it was a horse-fly that had stung Muldoon, he would accept an apology.

"You'll get it," said Muldoon, "in de sweet by-and-bye--all de apology
you've any use for. Excuse me interruptin' you, Mr. Rod, but I'm like
Tweezy--I've a Southern drawback in me hind legs."

"Naow, I want you all here to take notice, an' you'll learn something,"
Rod went on. "This yaller-backed skate comes to our pastur'-"

"Not havin' paid his board," put in Tedda.

"Not havin' earned his board, an' talks smooth to us abaout ripplin'
brooks an' wavin' grass, an' his high-toned, pure-souled horsehood,
which don't hender him sheddin' women an' childern, an' fallin' over the
dash onter men. You heard his talk, an' you thought it mighty fine, some
o' you."

Tuck looked guilty here, but she did not say anything.

"Bit by bit he goes on ez you have heard."

"I was talkin' in the abstrac'," said the yellow horse, in an altered
voice.

"Abstrac' be switched! Ez I've said, it's this yer blamed abstrac'
business that makes the young uns cut up in the Concord; an' abstrac'
or no abstrac', he crep' on an' on till he come to killin' plain an'
straight--killin' them as never done him no harm, jest beca'se they
owned horses."

"An' knowed how to manage 'em," said Tedda. "That makes it worse."

"Waal, he didn't kill 'em, anyway," said Marcus. "He'd ha' been half
killed ef he had tried."

"'Makes no differ," Rod answered. "He meant to; an' ef he hadn't--s'pose
we want the Back Pasture turned into a biffin'-ground on our only day er
rest? 'S'pose we want our men walkin' round with bits er lead pipe an' a
twitch, an' their hands full o' stones to throw at us, same's if we wuz
hogs er hooky keows? More'n that, leavin' out Tedda here--an' I guess
it's more her maouth than her manners stands in her light--there ain't a
horse on this farm that ain't a woman's horse, an' proud of it. An' this
yer bogspavined Kansas sunflower goes up an' daown the length o' the
country, traded off an' traded on, boastin' as he's shed women--an'
childern. I don't say as a woman in a buggy ain't a fool. I don't say
as she ain't the lastin'est kind er fool, ner I don't say a child ain't
worse--spattin' the lines an' standin' up an' hollerin'--but I do say,
'tain't none of our business to shed 'em daown the road."

"We don't," said the Deacon. "The baby tried to git some o' my tail for
a sooveneer last fall when I was up to the haouse, an' I didn't kick.
Boney's talk ain't goin' to hurt us any. We ain't colts."

"Thet's what you think Bimeby you git into a tight corner, 'Lection
day er Valley Fair, like's not, daown-taown, when you're all het an'
lathery, an' pestered with flies, an' thirsty, an' sick o' bein' worked
in an aout 'tween buggies. Then somethin' whispers inside o' your
winkers, bringin' up all that talk abaout servitood an' inalienable
truck an' sech like, an' jest then a Militia gun goes off; er your
wheels hit, an'--waal, you're only another horse ez can't be trusted.
I've been there time an' again. Boys--fer I've seen you all bought er
broke--on my solemn repitation fer a three-minute clip, I ain't givin'
you no bran-mash o' my own fixin'. I'm tellin' you my experiences, an'
I've had ez heavy a load an' ez high a check's any horse here. I wuz
born with a splint on my near fore ez big's a walnut, an' the cussed,
three-cornered Hambletonian temper that sours up an' curdles daown ez
you git older. I've favoured my splint; even little Rick he don't know
what it's cost me to keep my end up sometimes; an' I've fit my temper
in stall an' harness, hitched up an' at pasture, till the sweat trickled
off my hooves, an' they thought I wuz off condition, an' drenched me."

"When my affliction came," said Tweezy, gently, "I was very near to
losin' my manners. Allow me to extend to you my sympathy, suh."

Rick said nothing, but he looked at Rod curiously. Rick is a
sunny-tempered child who never bears malice, and I don't think he quite
understood. He gets his temper from his mother, as a horse should.

"I've been there too, Rod," said Tedda. "Open confession's good for the
soul, an' all Monroe County knows I've had my experriences."

"But if you will excuse me, suh, that pusson"--Tweezy looked unspeakable
things at the yellow horse--"that pusson who has insulted our
intelligences comes from Kansas. An' what a ho'se of his position,
an' Kansas at that, says cannot, by any stretch of the halter, concern
gentlemen of our position. There's no shadow of equal'ty, suh, not even
for one kick. He's beneath our contempt."

"Let him talk," said Marcus. "It's always interestin' to know what
another horse thinks. It don't tech us."

"An' he talks so, too," said Tuck. "I've never heard anythin' so smart
for a long time."

Again Rod stuck out his jaws sidewise, and went on slowly, as though he
were slugging on a plain bit at the end of a thirty-mile drive:

"I want all you here ter understand thet ther ain't no Kansas, ner no
Kentucky, ner yet no Vermont, in our business. There's jest two kind
o' horse in the United States--them ez can an' will do their work after
bein' properly broke an' handled, an' them as won't. I'm sick an' tired
o' this everlastin' tail-switchin' an' wickerin' abaout one State er
another. A horse kin be proud o' his State, an' swap lies abaout it in
stall or when he's hitched to a block, ef he keers to put in fly-time
that way; but he hain't no right to let that pride o' hisn interfere
with his work, ner to make it an excuse fer claimin' he's different.
That's colts' talk, an' don't you fergit it, Tweezy. An', Marcus, you
remember that hem' a philosopher, an' anxious to save trouble,--fer you
ate,--don't excuse you from jumpin' with all your feet on a slack-jawed,
crazy clay-bank like Boney here. It's leavin' 'em alone that gives 'em
their chance to ruin colts an' kill folks. An', Tuck, waal, you're a
mare anyways--but when a horse comes along an' covers up all his talk o'
killin' with ripplin' brooks, an wavin grass, an' eight quarts of oats
a day free, after killn' his man, don't you be run away with by his yap.
You're too young an' too nervous."

"I'll--I'll have nervous prostration sure ef there's a fight here," said
Tuck, who saw what was in Rod's eye; "I'm--I'm that sympathetic I'd run
away clear to next caounty."

"Yep; I know that kind o' sympathy. Jest lasts long enough to start a
fuss, an' then lights aout to make new trouble. I hain't been ten years
in harness fer nuthin'. Naow, we're goin' to keep school with Boney fer
a spell."

"Say, look a-here, you ain't goin' to hurt me, are you? Remember, I
belong to a man in town," cried the yellow horse, uneasily. Muldoon kept
behind him so that he could not run away.

"I know it. There must be some pore delooded fool in this State hez a
right to the loose end o' your hitchin'-strap. I'm blame sorry fer him,
but he shall hev his rights when we're through with you," said Rod.

"If it's all the same, gentlemen, I'd ruther change pasture. Guess I'll
do it now."

"'Can't always have your 'druthers. 'Guess you won't," said Rod.

"But look a-here. All of you ain't so blame unfriendly to a stranger.
S'pose we count noses."

"What in Vermont fer?" said Rod, putting up his eyebrows. The idea of
settling a question by counting noses is the very last thing that ever
enters the head of a well-broken horse.

"To see how many's on my side. Here's Miss Tuck, anyway; an' Colonel
Tweezy yonder's neutral; an' Judge Marcus, an' I guess the Reverend [the
yellow horse meant the Deacon] might see that I had my rights. He's the
likeliest-lookin' Trotter I've ever set eyes on. Pshaw. Boys. You ain't
goin' to pound me, be you? Why, we've gone round in pasture, all colts
together, this month o' Sundays, hain't we, as friendly as could be.
There ain't a horse alive I don't care who he is--has a higher opinion
o' you, Mr. Rod, than I have. Let's do it fair an' true an' above the
exe. Let's count noses same's they do in Kansas." Here he dropped his
voice a little and turned to Marcus: "Say, Judge, there's some green
food I know, back o' the brook, no one hain't touched yet. After this
little fracas is fixed up, you an' me'll make up a party an' 'tend to
it."

Marcus did not answer for a long time, then he said: "There's a pup up
to the haouse 'bout eight weeks old. He'll yap till he gits a lickin',
an' when he sees it comin' he lies on his back, an' yowls. But he don't
go through no cirkituous nose-countin' first. I've seen a noo light
sence Rod spoke. You'll better stand up to what's served. I'm goin' to
philosophise all over your carcass."

"I'm goin' to do yer up in brown paper," said Muldoon. "I can fit you on
apologies."

"Hold on. Ef we all biffed you now, these same men you've been so dead
anxious to kill 'u'd call us off. 'Guess we'll wait till they go back to
the haouse, an' you'll have time to think cool an' quiet," said Rod.

"Have you no respec' whatever fer the dignity o' our common horsehood?"
the yellow horse squealed.

"Nary respec' onless the horse kin do something. America's paved with
the kind er horse you are--jist plain yaller-dog horse--waitin' ter be
whipped inter shape. We call 'em yearlings an' colts when they're young.
When they're aged we pound 'em--in this pastur'. Horse, sonny, is
what you start from. We know all about horse here, an' he ain't any
high-toned, pure souled child o' nature. Horse, plain horse, same ez
you, is chock-full o' tricks, an' meannesses, an' cussednesses, an'
shirkin's, an' monkey-shines, which he's took over from his sire an'
his dam, an' thickened up with his own special fancy in the way o' goin'
crooked. Thet's horse, an' thet's about his dignity an' the size of his
soul 'fore he's been broke an' rawhided a piece. Now we ain't goin' to
give ornery unswitched horse, that hain't done nawthin' wuth a quart of
oats sence he wuz foaled, pet names that would be good enough fer Nancy
Hanks, or Alix, or Directum, who hev. Don't you try to back off acrost
them rocks. Wait where you are! Ef I let my Hambletonian temper git the
better o' me I'd frazzle you out finer than rye-straw inside o' three
minutes, you woman-scarin', kid-killin', dash-breakin', unbroke,
unshod, ungaited, pastur'-hoggin', saw-backed, shark-mouthed,
hair-trunk-thrown-in-in-trade son of a bronco an' a sewin'-machine!"

"I think we'd better get home," I said to my companion, when Rod had
finished; and we climbed into the coupe, Tedda whinnying, as we bumped
over the ledges: "Well, I'm dreffle sorry I can't stay fer the sociable;
but I hope an' trust my friends'll take a ticket fer me."

"Bet your natchul!" said Muldoon, cheerfully, and the horses scattered
before us, trotting into the ravine.

Next morning we sent back to the livery-stable what was left of the
yellow horse. It seemed tired, but anxious to go.


THE SHIP THAT FOUND HERSELF


It was her first voyage, and though she was but a cargo-steamer of
twenty-five hundred tons, she was the very best of her kind, the
outcome of forty years of experiments and improvements in framework and
machinery; and her designers and owner thought as much of her as though
she had been the Lucania. Any one can make a floating hotel that will
pay expenses, if he puts enough money into the saloon, and charges for
private baths, suites of rooms, and such like; but in these days of
competition and low freights every square inch of a cargo-boat must be
built for cheapness, great hold-capacity, and a certain steady speed.
This boat was, perhaps, two hundred and forty feet long and thirty-two
feet wide, with arrangements that enabled her to carry cattle on her
main and sheep on her upper deck if she wanted to; but her great glory
was the amount of cargo that she could store away in her holds. Her
owners--they were a very well known Scotch firm--came round with her
from the north, where she had been launched and christened and fitted,
to Liverpool, where she was to take cargo for New York; and the owner's
daughter, Miss Frazier, went to and fro on the clean decks, admiring the
new paint and the brass work, and the patent winches, and particularly
the strong, straight bow, over which she had cracked a bottle of
champagne when she named the steamer the Dimbula. It was a beautiful
September afternoon, and the boat in all her newness--she was painted
lead-colour with a red funnel--looked very fine indeed. Her house-flag
was flying, and her whistle from time to time acknowledged the salutes
of friendly boats, who saw that she was new to the High and Narrow Seas
and wished to make her welcome.

"And now," said Miss Frazier, delightedly, to the captain, "she's a real
ship, isn't she? It seems only the other day father gave the order for
her, and now--and now--isn't she a beauty!" The girl was proud of the
firm, and talked as though she were the controlling partner.

"Oh, she's no so bad," the skipper replied cautiously. "But I'm sayin'
that it takes more than christenin' to mak' a ship. In the nature o'
things, Miss Frazier, if ye follow me, she's just irons and rivets and
plates put into the form of a ship. She has to find herself yet."

"I thought father said she was exceptionally well found."

"So she is," said the skipper, with a laugh. "But it's this way wi'
ships, Miss Frazier. She's all here, but the parrts of her have not
learned to work together yet. They've had no chance."

"The engines are working beautifully. I can hear them."

"Yes, indeed. But there's more than engines to a ship. Every inch of
her, ye'll understand, has to be livened up and made to work wi' its
neighbour--sweetenin' her, we call it, technically."

"And how will you do it?" the girl asked.

"We can no more than drive and steer her and so forth; but if we have
rough weather this trip--it's likely--she'll learn the rest by heart!
For a ship, ye'll obsairve, Miss Frazier, is in no sense a reegid body
closed at both ends. She's a highly complex structure o' various an'
conflictin' strains, wi' tissues that must give an' tak' accordin' to
her personal modulus of elasteecity." Mr. Buchanan, the chief engineer,
was coming towards them. "I'm sayin' to Miss Frazier, here, that our
little Dimbula has to be sweetened yet, and nothin' but a gale will do
it. How's all wi' your engines, Buck?"

"Well enough--true by plumb an' rule, o' course; but there's no
spontaneeity yet." He turned to the girl. "Take my word, Miss Frazier,
and maybe ye'll comprehend later; even after a pretty girl's christened
a ship it does not follow that there's such a thing as a ship under the
men that work her."

"I was sayin' the very same, Mr. Buchanan," the skipper interrupted.

"That's more metaphysical than I can follow," said Miss Frazier,
laughing.

"Why so? Ye're good Scotch, an'--I knew your mother's father, he was
fra' Dumfries--ye've a vested right in metapheesics, Miss Frazier, just
as ye have in the Dimbula," the engineer said.

"Eh, well, we must go down to the deep watters, an' earn Miss Frazier
her deevidends. Will you not come to my cabin for tea?" said the
skipper. "We'll be in dock the night, and when you're goin' back to
Glasgie ye can think of us loadin' her down an' drivin' her forth--all
for your sake."

In the next few days they stowed some four thousand tons dead-weight
into the Dimbula, and took her out from Liverpool. As soon as she met
the lift of the open water, she naturally began to talk. If you lay your
ear to the side of the cabin, the next time you are in a steamer, you
will hear hundreds of little voices in every direction, thrilling
and buzzing, and whispering and popping, and gurgling and sobbing and
squeaking exactly like a telephone in a thunder-storm. Wooden ships
shriek and growl and grunt, but iron vessels throb and quiver through
all their hundreds of ribs and thousands of rivets. The Dimbula was
very strongly built, and every piece of her had a letter or a number, or
both, to describe it; and every piece had been hammered, or forged, or
rolled, or punched by man, and had lived in the roar and rattle of the
shipyard for months. Therefore, every piece had its own separate voice,
in exact proportion to the amount of trouble spent upon it. Cast-iron,
as a rule, says very little; but mild steel plates and wrought-iron,
and ribs and beams that have been much bent and welded and riveted, talk
continuously. Their conversation, of course, is not half as wise as our
human talk, because they are all, though they do not know it, bound down
one to the other in a black darkness, where they cannot tell what is
happening near them, nor what will overtake them next.

As soon as she had cleared the Irish coast, a sullen, grey-headed old
wave of the Atlantic climbed leisurely over her straight bows, and
sat down on the steam-capstan used for hauling up the anchor. Now the
capstan and the engine that drove it had been newly painted red and
green; besides which, nobody likes being ducked.

"Don't you do that again," the capstan sputtered through the teeth of
his cogs. "Hi! Where's the fellow gone?"

The wave had slouched overside with a plop and a chuckle; but "Plenty
more where he came from," said a brother-wave, and went through and
over the capstan, who was bolted firmly to an iron plate on the iron
deck-beams below.

"Can't you keep still up there?" said the deckbeams. "What's the matter
with you? One minute you weigh twice as much as you ought to, and the
next you don't!"

"It isn't my fault," said the capstan. "There's a green brute outside
that comes and hits me on the head."

"Tell that to the shipwrights. You've been in position for months and
you've never wriggled like this before. If you aren't careful you'll
strain us."

"Talking of strain," said a low, rasping, unpleasant voice, "are any of
you fellows--you deck-beams, we mean--aware that those exceedingly ugly
knees of yours happen to be riveted into our structure--ours?"

"Who might you be?" the deck-beams inquired.

"Oh, nobody in particular," was the answer. "We're only the port and
starboard upper-deck stringers; and if you persist in heaving and hiking
like this, we shall be reluctantly compelled to take steps."

Now the stringers of the ship are long iron girders, so to speak, that
run lengthways from stern to bow. They keep the iron frames (what are
called ribs in a wooden ship) in place, and also help to hold the ends
of the deck-beams, which go from side to side of the ship. Stringers
always consider themselves most important, because they are so long.

The plain is developed with majesty, but not without monotony, dotted
with numerous towns and villages surrounded by vast plantations of grain,
snuff, vegetables, hops and filamentous plants and oilseeds. Side of the
Rhine and the horizon is very wide open, but the look is detained at
times beautiful forests that dot the plain. To the east are the mountains
and the landscape is where you want to complete or very remarkable
analogy between the Freiburg and Kehl.

In almost the center of the plain, 7 or 8 kilometers of the Rhine, delay
_Carlsruhe_, capital of the great -duchy of Baden, entirely modern city
- the newest of the German capital - clean, elegant in form,
strongly built, unique in its style, interesting monuments, but
also singularly monotonous and lonely.

At its immersion Wide and beautiful streets, look almost monumental,
the alien shall not believe in the capital of a relatively large, in
the midst of 25 to 30,000 inhabitants and in the presence of a court.
Such is the silence that reigns in all parties, the tranquility that
they are all things, the seriousness of the people. Thus, the inhabitants
of _Carlsruhe_ shown true to the etymology or the name of its capital,
a name that means: _The Cárlos_ rest, according to the will of the
prince who founded it in the first quarter of the eighteenth
century, by giving its base or shaft retirement residence.

In addition, the number of Catholics in Carlsruhe barely exceeds one
quarter of the population, there is little noise of bells, the whole
world is serious, and not being in the city industrial and commercial
anything but purely courtly and somewhat artificial social movement
appears to be banned from there, at least during the summer.

Carlsruhe seems to have been a kind of plagiarism or caricature of
Versailles. As in the city court of Louis XIV is the whole self-absorption
of the King-Sun King-Apollo, always aiming to impose anything on his
person, to have everything under their sovereign gaze, and from the
courtyard of his palace all streets, roads and avenues, as well as their
willingness _persona_ came across any and all action brightness; Carlsruhe
likewise has its axis, its point of departure, his watchful eye and its
germ, so to speak, in the great palace -serves as a ducal residence to
the Court during the winter.

It is Carlsruhe, as is quite well known, the form of an array literal.
Its axis is a huge semicircular plaza whose extensive background
highlights the great-ducal palace, the simple majesty and without
any artistic or peculiarity, and overlooking the esplanade that
magnificent shade trees.

From here, in all directions, straight or oblique, major city streets,
which deviate as they advance to determine the range.

Later, other streets semicircular huge semicircle parallel to the shaft,
cut and bind to each other, to and fro in the city, the streets
of the center court, from which, looking in any direction, is
developed around body mathematical consistency.

On one side of the palace is the botanical garden, which incidentally
is one of the best in Germany. Extend behind the gardens, the magnificent
forests, treasures of rich vegetation of the magnificent park. We
wanted to visit the palace, he was lonely, and we had occasion to notice
a feature of many of the German States. One soldier was excused
faction in the door we had to give input, and apparently he had left there
_por cumplimiento_ rather than defend or save any thing.

This is frankly that we go without saying that no one word, climb stairs,
called everywhere and no one responded or gave birth. At the risk of
a mishap occurs to us, we miss walking and opening doors, and enter
how many rooms and chambers are open and found no living soul. The palace
seemed rather a huge tomb that a resident cut. Wherever you prevailed
on the furniture and ornaments simplicity, modesty and economy.

No luxury, no concern of artistic ostentation or palace! That seemed
as if the palace was a residence of simple _bourgeois_ Germans.

I confess that, under the artistic point of view were very unhappy, we
liked the show as a feature indicative of the German customs.

Carlsruhe The best memorial is the _Academia_, Byzantine-style building,
very recent construction, or substantial and proportionate , which
contains the museums or galleries of paintings, natural history and
antiquities and a library. The palace or great-ducal castle contains
an account that nearly 100,000 volumes. Carlsruhe Cemetery is one of the
most beautiful in Germany, even though they look too bleak. By the of
Carlsruhe, it is curious to note the strong contrast between the
ancient and modern cities in Germany.

In the former, like Nuremberg, Hanover, Cologne, Mayenza (or Mainz),
Prague, Regensburg, and many others, is where you want the style entirely
feudal, the seal of the people in action, of social classes in
struggle, caprice and the traditions of feudal times.

In the totally modern - built by the rulers or princes of the people and
not - as Carlsruhe, Mannheim, Darmstadt, etc. Is an entirely different
appearance, with no style or character or any label. The contrast
is even more significant in urban areas consist of large, ancient
and modern, like Berlin, Vienna, Hamburg, Dresden, Munich, Frankfurt
and Estuttgard.

With all-new everything is regular, large, uniform, monotonous and
without any style, everything is arty, pedantesco imposing the law of
the straight line in all directions.

This profound difference is understood. Ancient cities were spontaneous,
the work of the people of the need, and did not obey or calculation
rule.

The modern result of servility Renaissance imitator - of arrogance
or pedantry or sovereign governments fascinating school of Louis
XIV - manifested in the will of the monarch, the tendency to impose
themselves and their memory, á á dazzle people with large monumental
buildings, strategic mostly in straight lines which is not more
than the seal vanity grader, and the symbol of the popular passive
obedience. * * * * * The railroad badense before save Nékar or go
to Mannheim, is tilted towards the mountains, as if it were to enter
them by the picturesque valley of this tributary of the Rhine on
the left bank, at the exit of the valley on the plains and between
two strings of mountains covered with rich vegetation, delay
_Heidelberg_ city, modern buildings, relatively, but whose origin
dates back to Roman times.

Famous for its University and by the ruins of his admirable _Castillo_,
Heidelberg appealing to travelers for its uniquely picturesque,
by the customs of their university population and the beauty of wild
places near their vicinity.

To cover up the whole, nowhere more appropriate than the large bridge
over the Nékar - stone bridge of about 240 meters in length - from whose
center there is a magnificent landscape. On the left, the city
extends to the foot of the mountain _Koenigsstuhl_, along its length
in the river, rising in an inclined plane towards the magnificent green
belt that covers the mountain where the castle lies, and composed almost
exclusively of two long parallel streets to the river, cut by many
transverse aspect usually sad.

Above are the ruins of Castle incomparable, with its stunning majesty
dominating the landscape. On the right are many funny fifth aspect,
dominated by the cordon of hills that defines the valley of the river,
covered with pines and oaks at the top and vines and vegetables
into the bottom of the foot. Finally, the river descends a rocky
and tortuous channel, clean and crystalline, and endure some
waves in their boats and numerous rafts of timber. Heidelberg, as the
city has no other special artistic ancient home of the most rare
Details and shapes the rest of the feudal times, that hikers always
admired.

Most interesting is the University, famous for its schools of Law and
Medicine, in which the courses are still about 700 to 800 students.

It is remarkable all institutes that the University is endowed his
library, quite beautiful and substantial, its museums, the botanical
garden, etc.. As the city has about 15,000 inhabitants, but there is
little industrial and commercial life is the main university, whose
students will provide entertainment, food and economic importance. So
in the times of the city seems quiet holiday, or at least loses much of
its animation.

Just curious that such a set of habits and customs in Germany resulting
in the existence of some universities. In London and Edinburgh, as in
Paris, Berlin, St. Petersburg and Vienna, the Universities established
without doubt, a movement that has its particular character, such
as the _latino_ neighborhood in Paris.

But in reality in these cities has much of the student cosmopolitan mix
of the world too much movement is left to master the demands of fashion
and loses much of its type, or darken almost drowned by the grandeur
of the scene. In small German cities that have universities very
remarkable happens.

There the student is imposed, as a kind sovereign masters, absorbing
free, original, superior to any influence, which prints in some
way to the city seal of their customs.

Wherever you recognize him for his arrogant appearance, and original
thinker, his own clothing, and unfettered fashion, which makes the main
Cachucha the paper will see him singing on the streets, without care of
anything or anyone, with the beloved arm and the pipe or the cigar
in the mouth with the beard and hair in disarray and growing at
discretion; clothing for the devil, happy, free, dreamy, generous,
flamboyant, revolutionary democrat and given the philosophical
fantasies; little dogmatic and very passionate about the intricate
and erudite discussions, and inventing from school systems, looking
for early events, the press and the clubs, mockingly, but without
spicy joke; premature philosopher, friend and frequent quarrels in
the cult of the jar or bottle of beer.

Perhaps nowhere can be studied better than the people in our
universities, because it is in those colonies where embryo science
in society is revealed with more energy in their most ardent
aspirations, but his instincts and his tenacious skills more features.
* * * * * I would not even make a brief description of all the prime
_ 'Castle' _ Heidelberg, unless fastidiarían write many pages to
the reader.

That ruin is not worthy of special study, in detail, but for the
artist and the archaeologist.

It is a whole and its general significance, historical and social,
that provides the traveler with stunning admiration and sadness. One way
road, which winds the mountain slopes, through the midst of magnificent
forests in the upper part, led us almost to the top, where is the
castle, over 100 meters in height and on Heidelberg with majesty
dominating the abyss of Nékar basin.

Passing under the huge shady forest Bovedas completely surrounding the
castle, is a kind of meditation which prepares the soul to the
silent contemplation of the wonderful ruins.

Splendid terraces and banks are covered with gardens, from which it is a
charming glance, and was vague under the thick poplar in a field
of lush vegetation and uneven, going to side walls formidable invaded
the forest, sources ruined and shattered rubble, lying in the
thickness of the lime trees, holm oaks, and so on. as the remains
of an immense body of marble and stone.

After the traveler arrives in front of the colossal ruins of the
castle - walls swarming with admirable , almost all without roofs,
towers of various shapes and styles of arches, columns, statues and
remains of paramount sculptures, artistic and historical sights,
several patios, bridges destroyed, deep basements, balconies and
terraces and a labyrinth of buildings of all kinds , overwhelmed
by the huge lush trees, crowned with ivy floating blocks that appear
as green shroud cast by the nature of the wonders of art to keep
the time and devour spray ....

Wherever you are by peep from the foliage of the trees one hundred
heads of marble sculptures or buildings daring and admirable reliefs
and frescoes on the invading patches of ivy, as if they wanted to protest
against the neglect, on behalf of the artists who recorded the stamp of
his inspiration in every tile, every statue, every stone and every
monument of monuments such swarm is called _Castillo_.

The history of this colossal creation of art, they have quite rightly
called the _Alhambra of Alemania_ explains perfectly the circumstances
of its composition. It was a succession of palaces, begun by one of the
rulers or margrave of the country since the beginning of the
fifteenth century, each successor was to add a new building, according
to the style of each era, but the Italian always dominate, and thus
the Castle was a strange wonder, to 1680, composed of works that
showed the progress of art in architecture, sculpture, ornaments,
etc..

The castle was both a fortress and a palace, where she was the court
of the Margrave of the Rhine and its garrison, and can accommodate
thousands of people.

During the vicious war of succession to Louis XIV made margraviato, through
the brutal Louvois, 1688 á 1693, was almost completely destroyed or
ruined castle of Heidelberg, like many others in the vicinity of the
Rhine, the ambitious king of the unforgiving canyon wiped out what the
artist's chisel had worked hard for two and a half centuries. After
the war, one of the Margrave proposed rebuild ruined everything, and got
it by prodigies of will he and the artists. But fate seemed to weigh
on those wonderful human: a glimmer of a fire tower in 1764, all point
to the building was consumed by flames, in their upper parts, and
since then have left majestic ruins but with the basement intact,
towers and terraces, and almost all of the walls standing.

Only a part of the mass of the building retains its roof sheltering
many curios.

The show is so great and all buildings and primarily so complicated, that
it is impossible to describe without going into details detainees.

What the traveler pulls clear of the contemplation of those wonders
of art almost annihilated, is a double conviction: first, that the
glory of the artist inspired and well-skilled is much higher than
that of the warrior who destroys the pretext of defending a cause
caller just as the awareness of severe impartial traveler pays
tribute to the admiration of artists, dominated by the noble sense
of beauty, while the memory of King heinous and barbaric corrupt
general canyons whose beauty became so dilapidated, second, in vain
that the nations boast of progress in civilization, under the views
of art, science, industry, commerce, etc.. if their progress in
terms of morality are not to be in harmony with those, that is, if
governments do not have to respect the works of civilization,
abandoning the savage _justicia_ of the war that destroys everything.

It is curious to note that France, the people that since the seventeenth
century has done much more powerful civilization in the realm of
the spiritual - the science and art - is that their wars had destroyed
most iniquitous wonders ú artistic masterpieces, Germany, Italy and
Spain, as evidenced by many ruins in the region of the Rhine, some
in the Italian peninsula, and the Alcázar de Toledo, the Alhambra
in Granada and Jeneralife, etc.. etc.

Is that the war lacks morality and creativity is the worst enemy of
civilization. * * * * * CHAPTER V. Heidelberg to Frankfurt. Mannheim
and the Rhine - The Grand Duchy of Darmstadt, its government and
general .-- The capital city .-- A typical household. after visiting
Heidelberg continue our excursion directly to Darmstadt.

However, say two words about Mannheim since this city is one of the most
important large-duchy of Baden, and were able to visit, ten months
later, to make our second trip to Paris to Germany, via Metz and Espira.
_Mannheim_, located almost on the right bank of the Rhine and the
left Nékar at the apex of the intersection and facing _Ludwigshafen_,
but not attract attention by their cold and monotonous regularity
that I have fully justified said about the contrast offered by
modern cities in Germany compared with the old.

Founded in 1606 by one of the country's former _Electores_, Mannheim had
the misfortune to be fortified since its origin, ie be a temptation for
enemies in international wars. Thus, Louis XIV had been dire, and a
French general very expeditiously destroyed completely.

And entirely rebuilt in 1794, was later dam of French and Austrian
succession. Through these adventures sad experience served as something
the fortifications were demolished and replaced by beautiful gardens,
gardens and promenades, and today the city, care-free artificial
grows in population, without widens pregnancy, but do not think
people in the trade of its port, the movement of rail and shipping
of the two rivers, and the peaceful development of the arts.

Mannheim has to 25 to 28,000 inhabitants, but had to deal with business
activity, and many beautiful gardens in the vicinity, and pleasant walks
along the banks of the rivers and the magnificent park of the
great-ducal palace, they should all die of boredom, to roam those
streets anchísimas, rectísimas and sad, edge rows of houses and
absolutely equal invariably cut at right angles.

The city contains all public places and objects that distinguishes
a civilized and populous town, but there lacks any distinction because
of the cold uniformity of all buildings.

The great-ducal palace, which contains a considerable library and
art collections generally mediocre, is not remarkable as a monument,
but by the vastness of its facade, which measures a length of more
than 560 meters.

In addition, Mannheim is a remarkable agricultural production (which
are mainly grains, hemp, flax, snuff and hops, which inhabit the surrounding
plains), and contains some important articles of linen fabrics,
hemp and wool. * * * * * As the rail trip between Heidelberg and
Darmstadt goes along the western base of the mountain range called
_Odenwald_, which covers a significant part of the territory's best
banda of Hesse-Darmstadt, landscape take a look all the way completely
analogous to the counties that I have spoken badenses.

The plains extending into the Rhine with luxurious vegetation and careful
cultivation, and the mountains are always a funny and wistful for the
ways by inks of thick dark forests.

The grand duchy of Hesse-Darmstadt, which occupies the 9th rank in the
German Confederation, is one of the least significant of the secondary.
Its territory, which starts at the top of the line Nékar is divided
into two unequal portions, one adjacent to Baden, Franconia,
Frankfurt, Hesse-Nassau and Elections, and the other on the left
bank of the Rhine mountainous part and partly entirely plain, on
the banks of the Rhine, that contains an extension teritorrio
landowners of 8405 square kilometers and in 1858 had 854,300
inhabitants (450,000 of them Protestants), which gives the ratio,
very common, even in Europe, over 101 inhabitants per square
kilometer.

The grand duchy of Hesse-Darmstadt, which, like that of Baden on the Rhine
and the other central part of the German _Zolverein_ has gone through
all the vicissitudes that the wars between France and Germany, and
especially those of Napoleon, they weigh on the German states most
exposed to shock.

Arguably, the true constitution of the great duchy but no data from
1806, when the former prince of the electorate, under the auspices of
Napoleon, enlarge their domains at the expense of other people and
was listed as a member of the ephemeral 'Confederation of the Rhine
'.

But the Duke knew how to do great business, returning to their
long arms against the French emperor, and that was thanks to their
great advantages in partija that, under the name _restauracion_,
did the Congress of Vienna in 1815.

In 1820 was organized the large-ducat to the nature of constitutional
monarchy, with relatively liberal institutions that developed the
revolution in 1849. But the general reaction of 1851 put a stop to the
most important freedoms, and since then the government has been
on the Darmstadt group of affiliated companies in many states the
Confederation against the progress of democratic ideas, showing
perseverance in the war that almost all the German princes to the
people who make so patiently tolerated.

Yet the pettiness with which governments like those of Hesse-Cassel,
Hesse-Darmstadt, Nassau and others oppose the liberal movement that stirred
the German people, not because I think that deserves absolute
censorship resistance SIDS show on trends unit.

In my opinion, the German Democratic Party has much cause to strive
for democracy, against the logic and convenience, by making solidarity
_unitarismo_. Just healthy, progressive and advantageous to make the
real Germany _Confederacion_, ie a body of completely autonomous in their
internal government, but linked by common principles of citizenship
and public law - customs, diplomacy, army and navy common and a
national budget.

This involves a combination of parliamentary and government representation
in which the unit is _social interview with the great German people and
the autonomy of the various governments. But that organization, which
would be logical, truly democratic and productive, rather than
extravagant complications present many states and governments
antagonistic enemies of the people - that combination to the complete
unification, but concealed, the distance is too great.

Democracy can not win in Germany or any country in the world, with the
pooling unit, since people are always more books to measure and monitor
more closely touches the interests of his administration and actions of
their rulers.

For Moreover, Germany would lose the immense political centralization
under the moral, intellectual and economic.

The inhabitant of Munic Estuttgard or nothing seems to Hamburg or Lubeck,
neither of Vienna to Cologne.

Each group has its German character, its method of creation or action,
philosophy and literature, in terms of arts and sciences and business
administration and economics.
and the Kaiser and the
Werkendam said, "Hoch!" Dutch fashion--and that was absolutely all.

"I did my best," said the Steam, gravely, "but I don't think they were
much impressed with us, somehow. Do you?"

"It's simply disgusting," said the bow-plates. "They might have seen
what we've been through. There isn't a ship on the sea that has suffered
as we have--is there, now?"

"Well, I wouldn't go so far as that," said the Steam, "because I've
worked on some of those boats, and sent them through weather quite as
bad as the fortnight that we've had, in six days; and some of them are
a little over ten thousand tons, I believe. Now I've seen the Majestic,
for instance, ducked from her bows to her funnel; and I've helped the
Arizona, I think she was, to back off an iceberg she met with one dark
night; and I had to run out of the Paris's engine-room, one day, because
there was thirty foot of water in it. Of course, I don't deny--" The
Steam shut off suddenly, as a tugboat, loaded with a political club and
a brass band, that had been to see a New York Senator off to Europe,
crossed their bows, going to Hoboken. There was a long silence that
reached, without a break, from the cut-water to the propeller-blades of
the Dimbula.

Then a new, big voice said slowly and thickly, as though the owner had
just waked up: "It's my conviction that I have made a fool of myself."

The Steam knew what had happened at once; for when a ship finds herself
all the talking of the separate pieces ceases and melts into one voice,
which is the soul of the ship.

"Who are you?" he said, with a laugh. "I am the Dimbula, of course. I've
never been anything else except that--and a fool!"

The tugboat, which was doing its very best to be run down, got away just
in time; its band playing clashily and brassily a popular but impolite
air:

          In the days of old Rameses--are you on?
          In the days of old Rameses--are you on?
          In the days of old Rameses,
          That story had paresis,
          Are you on--are you on--are you on?

"Well, I'm glad you've found yourself," said the Steam. "To tell the
truth, I was a little tired of talking to all those ribs and stringers.
Here's Quarantine. After that we'll go to our wharf and clean up a
little, and--next month we'll do it all over again."


THE TOMB OF HIS ANCESTORS


Some people will tell you that if there were but a single loaf of bread
in all India it would be divided equally between the Plowdens, the
Trevors, the Beadons, and the Rivett-Carnacs. That is only one way of
saying that certain families serve India generation after generation, as
dolphins follow in line across the open sea.

Let us take a small and obscure case. There has been at least one
representative of the Devonshire Chinns in or near Central India since
the days of Lieutenant-Fireworker Humphrey Chinn, of the Bombay European
Regiment, who assisted at the capture of Seringapatam in 1799. Alfred
Ellis Chinn, Humphrey's younger brother, commanded a regiment of Bombay
grenadiers from 1804 to 1813, when he saw some mixed fighting; and in
1834 John Chinn of the same family--we will call him John Chinn the
First--came to light as a level-headed administrator in time of trouble
at a place called Mundesur. He died young, but left his mark on the new
country, and the Honourable the Board of Directors of the Honourable
the East India Company embodied his virtues in a stately resolution, and
paid for the expenses of his tomb among the Satpura hills.

He was succeeded by his son, Lionel Chinn, who left the little old
Devonshire home just in time to be severely wounded in the Mutiny. He
spent his working life within a hundred and fifty miles of John Chinn's
grave, and rose to the command of a regiment of small, wild hill-men,
most of whom had known his father. His son John was born in the small
thatched-roofed, mud-walled cantonment, which is even to-day eighty
miles from the nearest railway, in the heart of a scrubby, tigerish
country. Colonel Lionel Chinn served thirty years and retired. In the
Canal his steamer passed the outward-bound troop-ship, carrying his son
eastward to the family duty.

The Chinns are luckier than most folk, because they know exactly what
they must do. A clever Chinn passes for the Bombay Civil Service, and
gets away to Central India, where everybody is glad to see him. A dull
Chinn enters the Police Department or the Woods and Forest, and sooner
or later he, too, appears in Central India, and that is what gave rise
to the saying, "Central India is inhabited by Bhils, Mairs, and Chinns,
all very much alike." The breed is small-boned, dark, and silent, and
the stupidest of them are good shots. John Chinn the Second was rather
clever, but as the eldest son he entered the army, according to Chinn
tradition. His duty was to abide in his father's regiment for the term
of his natural life, though the corps was one which most men would have
paid heavily to avoid. They were irregulars, small, dark, and blackish,
clothed in rifle-green with black-leather trimmings; and friends called
them the "Wuddars," which means a race of low-caste people who dig
up rats to eat. But the Wuddars did not resent it. They were the only
Wuddars, and their points of pride were these:

Firstly, they had fewer English officers than any native regiment.
Secondly, their subalterns were not mounted on parade, as is the general
rule, but walked at the head of their men. A man who can hold his own
with the Wuddars at their quickstep must be sound in wind and limb.
Thirdly, they were the most pukka shikarries (out-and-out hunters)
in all India. Fourthly-up to one-hundredthly--they were the
Wuddars--Chinn's Irregular Bhil Levies of the old days, but now,
henceforward and for ever, the Wuddars.

No Englishman entered their mess except for love or through family
usage. The officers talked to their soldiers in a tongue not two hundred
white folk in India understood; and the men were their children, all
drawn from the Bhils, who are, perhaps, the strangest of the many
strange races in India. They were, and at heart are, wild men, furtive,
shy, full of untold superstitions. The races whom we call natives of the
country found the Bhil in possession of the land when they first broke
into that part of the world thousands of years ago. The books call them
Pre-Aryan, Aboriginal, Dravidian, and so forth; and, in other words,
that is what the Bhils call themselves. When a Rajput chief whose bards
can sing his pedigree backwards for twelve hundred years is set on the
throne, his investiture is not complete till he has been marked on
the forehead with blood from the veins of a Bhil. The Rajputs say the
ceremony has no meaning, but the Bhil knows that it is the last, last
shadow of his old rights as the long-ago owner of the soil.

Centuries of oppression and massacre made the Bhil a cruel and
half-crazy thief and cattle-stealer, and when the English came he seemed
to be almost as open to civilisation as the tigers of his own jungles.
But John Chinn the First, father of Lionel, grandfather of our John,
went into his country, lived with him, learned his language, shot the
deer that stole his poor crops, and won his confidence, so that some
Bhils learned to plough and sow, while others were coaxed into the
Company's service to police their friends.

When they understood that standing in line did not mean instant
execution, they accepted soldiering as a cumbrous but amusing kind of
sport, and were zealous to keep the wild Bhils under control. That
was the thin edge of the wedge. John Chinn the First gave them written
promises that, if they were good from a certain date, the Government
would overlook previous offences; and since John Chinn was never known
to break his word--he promised once to hang a Bhil locally esteemed
invulnerable, and hanged him in front of his tribe for seven proved
murders--the Bhils settled down as steadily as they knew how. It was
slow, unseen work, of the sort that is being done all over India to-day;
and though John Chinn's only reward came, as I have said, in the shape
of a grave at Government expense, the little people of the hills never
forgot him.

Colonel Lionel Chinn knew and loved them, too, and they were very fairly
civilised, for Bhils, before his service ended. Many of them could
hardly be distinguished from low-caste Hindoo farmers; but in the south,
where John Chinn the First was buried, the wildest still clung to the
Satpura ranges, cherishing a legend that some day Jan Chinn, as they
called him, would return to his own. In the mean time they mistrusted
the white man and his ways. The least excitement would stampede them,
plundering, at random, and now and then killing; but if they were
handled discreetly they grieved like children, and promised never to do
it again.

The Bhils of the regiment--the uniformed men--were virtuous in many
ways, but they needed humouring. They felt bored and homesick unless
taken after tiger as beaters; and their cold-blooded daring--all Wuddars
shoot tigers on foot: it is their caste-mark--made even the officers
wonder. They would follow up a wounded tiger as unconcernedly as though
it were a sparrow with a broken wing; and this through a country full of
caves and rifts and pits, where a wild beast could hold a dozen men at
his mercy. Now and then some little man was brought to barracks with his
head smashed in or his ribs torn away; but his companions never learned
caution; they contented themselves with settling the tiger.

Young John Chinn was decanted at the verandah of the Wuddars' lonely
mess-house from the back seat of a two-wheeled cart, his gun-cases
cascading all round him. The slender little, hookey-nosed boy looked
forlorn as a strayed goat when he slapped the white dust off his knees,
and the cart jolted down the glaring road. But in his heart he was
contented. After all, this was the place where he had been born, and
things were not much changed since he had been sent to England, a child,
fifteen years ago.

There were a few new buildings, but the air and the smell and the
sunshine were the same; and the little green men who crossed the
parade-ground looked very familiar. Three weeks ago John Chinn would
have said he did not remember a word of the Bhil tongue, but at the
mess door he found his lips moving in sentences that he did not
understand--bits of old nursery rhymes, and tail-ends of such orders as
his father used to give the men.

The Colonel watched him come up the steps, and laughed.

"Look!" he said to the Major. "No need to ask the young un's breed. He's
a pukka Chinn. 'Might be his father in the Fifties over again."

"'Hope he'll shoot as straight," said the Major. "He's brought enough
ironmongery with him."

"'Wouldn't be a Chinn if he didn't. Watch him blowin' his nose. 'Regular
Chinn beak. 'Flourishes his handkerchief like his father. It's the
second edition--line for line."

"'Fairy tale, by Jove!" said the Major, peering through the slats of the
jalousies. "If he's the lawful heir, he'll.... Now old Chinn could no
more pass that chick without fiddling with it than...."

"His son!" said the Colonel, jumping up.

"Well, I be blowed!" said the Major. The boy's eye had been caught by a
split-reed screen that hung on a slew between the veranda pillars, and,
mechanically, he had tweaked the edge to set it level. Old Chinn had
sworn three times a day at that screen for many years; he could never
get it to his satisfaction.

His son entered the anteroom in the middle of a fivefold silence. They
made him welcome for his father's sake and, as they took stock of him,
for his own. He was ridiculously like the portrait of the Colonel on
the wall, and when he had washed a little of the dust from his throat he
went to his quarters with the old man's short, noiseless jungle-step.

"So much for heredity," said the Major. "That comes of four generations
among the Bhils."

"And the men know it," said a Wing officer. "They've been waiting for
this youth with their tongues hanging out. I am persuaded that, unless
he absolutely beats 'em over the head, they'll lie down by companies and
worship him."

"Nothin' like havin' a father before you," said the Major. "I'm a
parvenu with my chaps. I've only been twenty years in the regiment,
and my revered parent he was a simple squire. There's no getting at
the bottom of a Bhil's mind. Now, why is the superior bearer that young
Chinn brought with him fleeing across country with his bundle?"
He stepped into the verandah, and shouted after the man--a typical
new-joined subaltern's servant who speaks English and cheats in
proportion.

"What is it?" he called.

"Plenty bad man here. I going, sar," was the reply. "Have taken Sahib's
keys, and say will shoot."

"Doocid lucid--doocid convincin'. How those up-country thieves can leg
it! He has been badly frightened by some one." The Major strolled to his
quarters to dress for mess.

Young Chinn, walking like a man in a dream, had fetched a compass
round the entire cantonment before going to his own tiny cottage. The
captain's quarters, in which he had been born, delayed him for a little;
then he looked at the well on the parade-ground, where he had sat of
evenings with his nurse, and at the ten-by-fourteen church, where the
officers went to service if a chaplain of any official creed happened to
come along. It seemed very small as compared with the gigantic buildings
he used to stare up at, but it was the same place.

From time to time he passed a knot of silent soldiers, who saluted.
They might have been the very men who had carried him on their backs
when he was in his first knickerbockers. A faint light burned in his
room, and, as he entered, hands clasped his feet, and a voice murmured
from the floor.

"Who is it?" said young Chinn, not knowing he spoke in the Bhil tongue.

"I bore you in my arms, Sahib, when I was a strong man and you were
a small one--crying, crying, crying! I am your servant, as I was your
father's before you. We are all your servants."

Young Chinn could not trust himself to reply, and the voice went on:

"I have taken your keys from that fat foreigner, and sent him away; and
the studs are in the shirt for mess. Who should know, if I do not know?
And so the baby has become a man, and forgets his nurse; but my nephew
shall make a good servant, or I will beat him twice a day."

Then there rose up, with a rattle, as straight as a Bhil arrow, a little
white-haired wizened ape of a man, with medals and orders on his tunic,
stammering, saluting, and trembling. Behind him a young and wiry Bhil,
in uniform, was taking the trees out of Chinn's mess-boots.

Chinn's eyes were full of tears. The old man held out his keys.

"Foreigners are bad people. He will never come back again. We are all
servants of your father's son. Has the Sahib forgotten who took him to
see the trapped tiger in the village across the river, when his mother
was so frightened and he was so brave?"

The scene came back to Chinn in great magic-lantern flashes. "Bukta!" he
cried; and all in a breath: "You promised nothing should hurt me. Is it
Bukta?"

The man was at his feet a second time. "He has not forgotten. He
remembers his own people as his father remembered. Now can I die. But
first I will live and show the Sahib how to kill tigers. That that
yonder is my nephew. If he is not a good servant, beat him and send him
to me, and I will surely kill him, for now the Sahib is with his own
people. Ai, Jan haba--Jan haba! My Jan haba! I will stay here and see
that this does his work well. Take off his boots, fool. Sit down upon
the bed, Sahib, and let me look. It is Jan haba."

He pushed forward the hilt of his sword as a sign of service, which
is an honour paid only to viceroys, governors, generals, or to little
children whom one loves dearly. Chinn touched the hilt mechanically with
three fingers, muttering he knew not what. It happened to be the old
answer of his childhood, when Bukta in jest called him the little
General Sahib.

The Major's quarters were opposite Chinn's, and when he heard his
servant gasp with surprise he looked across the room. Then the Major
sat on the bed and whistled; for the spectacle of the senior native
commissioned officer of the regiment, an "unmixed" Bhil, a Companion of
the Order of British India, with thirty-five years' spotless service
in the army, and a rank among his own people superior to that of many
Bengal princelings, valeting the last-joined subaltern, was a little too
much for his nerves.

The throaty bugles blew the Mess-call that has a long legend behind it.
First a few piercing notes like the shrieks of beaters in a far-away
cover, and next, large, full, and smooth, the refrain of the wild song:
"And oh, and oh, the green pulse of Mundore--Mundore!"

"All little children were in bed when the Sahib heard that call last,"
said Bukta, passing Chinn a clean handkerchief. The call brought back
memories of his cot under the mosquito-netting, his mother's kiss, and
the sound of footsteps growing fainter as he dropped asleep among his
men. So he hooked the dark collar of his new mess-jacket, and went to
dinner like a prince who has newly inherited his father's crown.

Old Bukta swaggered forth curling his whiskers. He knew his own value,
and no money and no rank within the gift of the Government would have
induced him to put studs in young officers' shirts, or to hand them
clean ties. Yet, when he took off his uniform that night, and squatted
among his fellows for a quiet smoke, he told them what he had done, and
they said that he was entirely right. The young goldsmith said,
however, you should not trust, maybe it could be a robber's house,
but the circle smith taught him that the robbers their houses or caves
under the earth, and that the inn should be giving them a man at
the entrance to the forest described.

It was a long but low house, a cart was before, and next door in Stalle
one heard horses neigh. The Circle Schmiedgasse beckoned his companions
at a window, whose shop was opened. They could if they were on the toes,
the room overlooked. On the stove in a Armstuhl man fell asleep, his
clothes after a carter and probably also the owner of the cart before the
door could be.

On the other side of the stove sat a woman and a girl and tension
behind the table on the wall sat a man with a glass of wine in
front of him, his head in his hands having had, so that his face
she could not see.

The Circle blacksmith but wanted out of his clothes noted that it is
a noble Lord should be. As yet they are so focused on the look,
suggested a dog in the home. Munter, the circle smith dog, replied,
and a maid appeared at the door and looked after the stranger out.
We promised them dinner and beds give to them, they came and put the heavy
bundles, stick and hat in the corner and sat down to the Lord at the
table. This was directed at her in greeting, and they saw a fine young
man who they kindly thanked for their greeting. "You're late on the
train," he said, "did you not feared in such a dark night through
the Spessart to stay?

For my part, I prefer to have my horse in this inn, when I only have
one hours would be ridden. "" Since you've had quite, Sir! " Zirkel said
the blacksmith. "The Hufschlag a beautiful horse is a music in the ears
of the rabble and attracts them to one hour more, but if a few poor
boys like us to sneak through the forest, people, what the robbers rather
give yourself a little, since they do not lift the foot on! "" That
is probably true, "replied the coachman, who, by the arrival of
strangers awaken, even at the table was taken," a poor man can not
wear a lot of his money's sake, but you have examples that they
poor people only from niederstießen lust murder or forced by the
gang to come and to serve as a robber. "" Well, if it looks like
with these people in the woods, "remarked the young goldsmith," so
we are truly this little house protection.

We are only four and five of the house servant, and when they stopped,
ten attacked us, what can we do against them?

And moreover, "he added softly and whispering," who is us that these Wirt
people are honest? "" Then it was a good way, "replied the wagoner.
"I know this business since more than ten years and have never feels
something is wrong.

The man is seldom at home, they say, he drift wine, but the woman is a
quiet woman who wants to harm nobody, no, this is your wrong, Sir!
"" And yet, "took the young noble Lord, the word," but I would not
completely reject what he said. Remember the rumors of those people who
are in this forest at once disappeared without trace. Several of them
had predicted she would be in this inn on the night, and when after
two or three weeks none of them heard, investigated, and their way
here in the Tavern demand, as is now none have been seen, it is suspicious.
" "White God," cried the blacksmith circle, "because we have acted
reasonably if we are under the next tree deprive our camp than here
in these four walls, where not born to think, if the door once they
have occupied since the windows are barred.

"They were all through these speeches has become thoughtful.

It seemed not unlikely that the inn in the woods, whether forced or
voluntary, in agreement with the robbers was. The night seemed to them
so dangerous, because as many Sage had heard it from hikers, the one in
his sleep had attacked and murdered, and should not go to her life, but
it was a part of the guests in the inn of forest resources so limited of
them a prey to some of their effects would have been very sensitive.
They looked sullen and gloomy in their glasses.

The young Lord wished, on his horse through a secure, open valley to
trot, the circle blacksmith wanted twelve of its tangible comrades, armed
with Knütteln as bodyguard, Felix, of the gold workers has contributed
more afraid of his jewelry to the perpetrator as well for his life
; the carter but the few times the smoke of his pipe thoughtfully before
hingeblasen said quietly: "My lords, in his sleep at least they should
not surprise us. For my part, I will, if only one with me holding the
whole night awake. "" That I will "-" I too, "cried the other
three," I could sleep but do not, "continued the young Lord added.

"Now, we want to drive something that we stay awake," said the carter, "I
think because we are just four, we could play cards, which keeps growing
and selling time." "I Never play cards, "said the young Lord,"
therefore I can not at least match that. "" And I know the cards
do not, "continued Felix added." What can we do but to start, if we
do not play, "said the Blacksmith Circle , "sing? That is not and would
be only the rabble herbeilocken; each other riddles spells and
give up on guessing?

It does not take long. Know ye what? What if we told something? Funny
or serious, true or invented, but it keeps growing and distributing
the time as well as cards. "" I'm happy, if you wanted to start,
"said the young Mr. smiling."

Gentlemen of your craft comes in all the countries around könnet something
to tell, but every city has its own legends and stories. "" Yes, yes,
you hear things, "said the Blacksmith Circle," to study men like your
industrious in the books, where do wonderful things are written,
because knew you still wiser and more beautiful than to tell a
simple lad like our craft one.

Would deceive me everything, or you're a student, a scholar. "" A scholar
is not, "smiled the young Lord," but a student and wants during
the holidays after the home stay, but what is in our books, is
suitable less telling than what you here and there belongs.

Therefore hebet always, if differently because they like to listen! ""
Even more than cards, "replied the coachman," applies to me, if
one tells a beautiful story.

Often I drive on the road rather step in the most miserable
and listen too, and the nebenhergeht says something nice, I have some
bad weather on the cart made under the condition that he tell something,
and a comrade of mine, I have I think the only reason why is so popular
because he knows stories, the seven hours and longer. "" So it is
also me, "continued the young gold worker added," I hear tell of
my life happy, and my masters in Würzburg had my books neatly forbid
that I do not read too many stories about the work and neglected.

So just give something nice price, Blacksmith Circle, I know you could
tell by now, until day before your stock points out. "The Circle
Schmiedgasse drank in order to strengthen his lecture, and then began
thus: The Sage by Wilhelm Hauff guldens Deer "That is the legend of
the deer guldens", ended the Blacksmith Circle, "and it should be true.
The landlord in Dürrwangen, not far from the three castles is, she
told my good friend, often as a signpost on the Swabian Alb and was
always in Dürrwangen there.

"The guests gave the applause Schmiedgasse circle." What you but not
everything hears in the world, "cried the coachman." Truly, only now I
am glad that we are not playing cards with corrupt, it is truly
better, and I noticed the story that tomorrow I can tell my mates
without missing a word. ' "I was there, so while your erzähltet
something," said the student.

"erzählet O, erzählet!" asked the blacksmith circle and Felix.
"Well," replied that "whether the series I come now or later, to
much, so I must go home but what I heard. What I want to tell,
should really go once have. "He sat up and wanted to get just
raise to tell when the landlady distaff beiseitesetzte and the guests
came to the table. "Now, you gentlemen, it's time to go to bed," she
said, "it has nine clock beaten, and tomorrow is also a day." "Oh,
so go to bed, "cried the student," do a bottle of wine for us here, and
then we want you no longer hold. "" No way, "she said morose," while
still in the guest sitting in a restaurant, hostess and servants can
not go away. And in short, well, their men, make that you come to
your chambers; me the time is long, and longer than nine clock in
my home may not be gezecht. "" What do you, Mrs. landlady?

"Said the Blacksmith Circle astonishment, "what harm it because
you, whether we sit here, even if your long schlafet we have legal
people, and you will not wear out, nor leave without pay.

But as I leave me in no ausbieten Tavern. " The woman rolled his eyes
angrily: "Do you, I will rag because each craft fraternity, because
every road runner, my twelve cruisers to earn there, my house rules change?
I tell you now for the last time that I do not suffer the nonsense!

"Once again the circle blacksmith wanted to retort something, but
the student looked at him significantly and waved through the eyes of the
rest." Well, "he said," if it is the woman landlady does not want, so
let's go to our chambers. But we'd like lights, in order to find the
way. "" That I can not serve, "she said dark," the others will have
their way in the dark, and this is for you Stümpfchen well here, I did
not more in the house. "Silently, the young Lord the light and stood up.
The others followed him, and the boys took their craft set to make them
in the chamber with him to resign.

They went to the student according to them the stairs hinanleuchtete.
When they were top, she asked the student, quiet voice, to his room shut
and wave them inside.

"Now is no doubt," he said, "they will betray us, have you not noticed
how anxious we are to bring to bed looking like us all the resources
section, awake and to stay together? You probably think that we We are
now down and then it will be easier to play. "" But do you not, we
might yet escape? " asked Felix. "In the woods you can rather than thinking
of salvation in this room."

"The windows are barred here," cried the student, he tried in vain to
the iron bars of the grid loszumachen.

"We will remain only one way out if we want to escape through the
door, but I do not think they will let us continue. "" It would
be tantamount to an attempt to, "said the coachman," I will try once,
if I was up in the yard may occur.

Is this possible, I go back and get after you. " The other endorsed
this proposal, the carter, the shoes and slipped on the toes under
the stairs, listened anxiously above his comrades in the room, he
was already one half of the stairs and happily went unnoticed, but
when he is there for a turned pillars, was suddenly an enormous
mastiff before him into the air, put its paws on his shoulders and
gave him just over his face, two rows of long, sharp teeth.

He dared neither before nor backwards to avoid, because at the slightest
movement of the horrific dog snapped after his throat.

At the same time he began to howl and bark, and the house appeared
alsobald servant and the woman with the lights. "Where, what do you
want?" cried the woman. "I have something in my cart to get," replied
the coachman, on the whole body trembling, because when the door was
risen, he had several brown, suspicious faces, men with rifles in
hand, in the room noticed . That you would have to arrange everything
in advance, "said the landlady crabby. "Fassa so! Connect to the Hoftüre,
Jakob, and light the man on his barrow!" The dog withdrew his frightful
muzzle and his paws on the shoulder of the Carter back up again and
stored across the stairs, the house servant, but had been closed and
Hoftor shone the wagoner. To escape was impossible. But when he nachsann
what he actually should get the cart, dropped him a pound of wax lights,
which he in the next town over bring. "The light above Stümpfchen can
barely take a quarter of an hour," he said to himself, " and light
we need to have!

" He took two wax candles from the car, hid them in the English and then
fetched his coat to slip out of the cart, which he, as servant of the
house, he said, wanted to cover tonight.

Happily, he came back to the room. He told of the big dog, a guard at
the staircase was, the men, which he fleetingly seen by all institutions
that are made to its insured, and thus concluded that sigh he said:
"We will this night will not survive. "" I do not think so, "replied
the student," so stupid, I can not believe these people that they
are due to the small advantage they have of us, four people to life
should go.

But defend we can not. For my part, I will most probably lose my horse
is already in their hands, it cost me fifty ducats have four weeks
ago, my exchange, my clothes, I willingly admit that, because my
life is me at the end rather than all this. "" You speak well,
"replied the coachman," such things, as you lose it you can replace
you easily, but I am the messenger of Aschaffenburg and have all
sorts of goods in my cart, and in the stall two fine steeds, my
only wealth. " "I can not believe they are doing you a are suffering,"
said the goldsmith, "to deprive a messenger, would have a lot of
yelling and making noise in the country.

But I am also what the Lord says here, rather I want hergeben everything
what I have, and with an oath promising not to say yes to never complain
when I was against people who have rifles and pistols to defend my small
effects. "The carter had his speeches during this most preferred wax
candles . He stuck it on the table and lit them. "So let us in
God's name, expect, what about us will come," he said, "we want to
come back together and put down to sleep by saying hold." "That is what
we want," replied the student, "and because earlier in the series
had stopped me, I will tell you something."

The Cold Heart With these words the narrator by a noise in front
of the inn will be interrupted. We heard a car drive, several voices
cried out for light, it was strongly connected to the Hoftor gepocht,
and in between several dogs howled. The chamber, which is the carter
and the craft had instructed boys, went to the street, the four guests
jumped up and ran it to see whether the present. So much for the sham
it a lantern could see, was a great car journey before the inn, just
a great man was busy, two veiled women from the car to lift, and a
coachman in livery horses saw the guy, but an official strapped to los
suitcase.

"'Can't say--as yet. 'Shouldn't be surprised a little bit."

"I haven't been told a syllable."

"Proves it all the more. They are keeping something back."

"Bukta tells me everything, too, as a rule. Now, why didn't he tell me
that?"

Chinn put the question directly to the old man that night, and the
answer surprised him.

"Why should I tell what is well known? Yes, the Clouded Tiger is out in
the Satpura country."

"What do the wild Bhils think that it means?"

"They do not know. They wait. Sahib, what is coming? Say only one little
word, and we will be content."

"We? What have tales from the south, where the jungly Bhils live, to do
with drilled men?"

"When Jan Chinn wakes is no time for any Bhil to be quiet."

"But he has not waked, Bukta."

"Sahib"--the old man's eyes were full of tender reproof--"if he does not
wish to be seen, why does he go abroad in the moonlight? We know he
is awake, but we do not know what he desires. Is it a sign for all the
Bhils, or one that concerns the Satpura folk alone? Say one little word,
Sahib, that I may carry it to the lines, and send on to our villages.
Why does Jan Chinn ride out? Who has done wrong? Is it pestilence? Is it
murrain? Will our children die? Is it a sword? Remember, Sahib, we
are thy people and thy servants, and in this life I bore thee in my
arms--not knowing."

"Bukta has evidently looked on the cup this evening," Chinn thought;
"but if I can do anything to soothe the old chap I must. It's like the
Mutiny rumours on a small scale."

He dropped into a deep wicker chair, over which was thrown his first
tiger-skin, and his weight on the cushion flapped the clawed paws over
his shoulders. He laid hold of them mechanically as he spoke, drawing
the painted hide, cloak-fashion, about him.

"Now will I tell the truth, Bukta," he said, leaning forward, the dried
muzzle on his shoulder, to invent a specious lie.

"I see that it is the truth," was the answer, in a shaking voice.

"Jan Chinn goes abroad among the Satpuras, riding on the Clouded Tiger,
ye say? Be it so. Therefore the sign of the wonder is for the Satpura
Bhils only, and does not touch the Bhils who plough in the north and
east, the Bhils of the Khandesh, or any others, except the Satpura
Bhils, who, as we know, are wild and foolish."

"It is, then, a sign for them. Good or bad?"

"Beyond doubt, good. For why should Jan Chinn make evil to those whom
he has made men? The nights over yonder are hot; it is ill to lie in one
bed over-long without turning, and Jan Chinn would look again upon
his people. So he rises, whistles his Clouded Tiger, and goes abroad
a little to breathe the cool air. If the Satpura Bhils kept to their
villages, and did not wander after dark, they would not see him. Indeed,
Bukta, it is no more than that he would see the light again in his own
country. Send this news south, and say that it is my word."

Bukta bowed to the floor. "Good Heavens!" thought Chinn, "and this
blinking pagan is a first-class officer, and as straight as a die! I may
as well round it off neatly." He went on:

"If the Satpura Bhils ask the meaning of the sign, tell them that Jan
Chinn would see how they kept their old promises of good living. Perhaps
they have plundered; perhaps they mean to disobey the orders of the
Government; perhaps there is a dead man in the jungle; and so Jan Chinn
has come to see."

"Is he, then, angry?"

"Bah! Am I ever angry with my Bhils? I say angry words, and threaten
many things. Thou knowest, Bukta. I have seen thee smile behind the
hand. I know, and thou knowest. The Bhils are my children. I have said
it many times."

"Ay. We be thy children," said Bukta.

"And no otherwise is it with Jan Chinn, my father's father. He would see
the land he loved and the people once again. It is a good ghost, Bukta.
I say it. Go and tell them. And I do hope devoutly," he added, "that it
will calm 'em down." Flinging back the tiger-skin, he rose with a long,
unguarded yawn that showed his well-kept teeth.

Bukta fled, to be received in the lines by a knot of panting inquirers.

"It is true," said Bukta. "He wrapped him-self in the skin, and spoke
from it. He would see his own country again. The sign is not for us;
and, indeed, he is a young man. How should he lie idle of nights? He
says his bed is too hot and the air is bad. He goes to and fro for the
love of night-running. He has said it."

The grey-whiskered assembly shuddered.

"He says the Bhils are his children. Ye know he does not lie. He has
said it to me."

"But what of the Satpura Bhils? What means the sign for them?"

"Nothing. It is only night-running, as I have said. He rides to see if
they obey the Government, as he taught them to do in his first life."

"And what if they do not?"

"He did not say."

The light went out in Chinn's quarters.

"Look," said Bukta. "Now he goes away. None the less it is a good ghost,
as he has said. How shall we fear Jan Chinn, who made the Bhil a man?
His protection is on us; and ye know Jan Chinn never broke a protection
spoken or written on paper. When he is older and has found him a wife he
will lie in his bed till morning."

A commanding officer is generally aware of the regimental state of mind
a little before the men; and this is why the Colonel said, a few days
later, that some one had been putting the Fear of God into the Wuddars.
As he was the only person officially entitled to do this, it distressed
him to see such unanimous virtue. "It's too good to last," he said. "I
only wish I could find out what the little chaps mean."

The explanation, as it seemed to him, came at the change of the moon,
when he received orders to hold himself in readiness to "allay any
possible excitement" among the Satpura Bhils, who were, to put it
mildly, uneasy because a paternal Government had sent up against them
a Mahratta State-educated vaccinator, with lancets, lymph, and
an officially registered calf. In the language of State, they had
"manifested a strong objection to all prophylactic measures," had
"forcibly detained the vaccinator," and "were on the point of neglecting
or evading their tribal obligations."

"That means they are in a blue funk--same as they were at census-time,"
said the Colonel; "and if we stampede them into the hills we'll never
catch 'em, in the first place, and, in the second, they'll whoop off
plundering till further orders. 'Wonder who the God-forsaken idiot is
who is trying to vaccinate a Bhil. I knew trouble was coming. One
good thing is that they'll only use local corps, and we can knock
up something we'll call a campaign, and let them down easy. Fancy us
potting our best beaters because they don't want to be vaccinated!
They're only crazy with fear."

"Don't you think, sir," said Chinn, the next day, "that perhaps you
could give me a fortnight's shooting-leave?"

"Desertion in the face of the enemy, by Jove!" The Colonel laughed. "I
might, but I'd have to antedate it a little, because we're warned for
service, as you might say. However, we'll assume that you applied for
leave three days ago, and are now well on your way south."

"I'd like to take Bukta with me."

"Of course, yes. I think that will be the best plan. You've some kind of
hereditary influence with the little chaps, and they may listen to you
when a glimpse of our uniforms would drive them wild. You've never been
in that part of the world before, have you? Take care they don't send
you to your family vault in your youth and innocence. I believe you'll
be all right if you can get 'em to listen to you."

"I think so, sir; but if--if they should accidentally put an--make asses
of 'emselves--they might, you know--I hope you'll represent that they
were only frightened. There isn't an ounce of real vice in 'em, and
I should never forgive myself if any one of--of my name got them into
trouble."

The Colonel nodded, but said nothing.

Chinn and Bukta departed at once. Bukta did not say that, ever since the
official vaccinator had been dragged into the hills by indignant Bhils,
runner after runner had skulked up to the lines, entreating, with
forehead in the dust, that Jan Chinn should come and explain this
unknown horror that hung over his people.

The portent of the Clouded Tiger was now too clear. Let Jan Chinn
comfort his own, for vain was the help of mortal man. Bukta toned down
these beseechings to a simple request for Chinn's presence. Nothing
would have pleased the old man better than a rough-and-tumble campaign
against the Satpuras, whom he, as an "unmixed" Bhil, despised; but he
had a duty to all his nation as Jan Chinn's interpreter; and he devoutly
believed that forty plagues would fall on his village if he tampered
with that obligation. Besides, Jan Chinn knew all things, and he rode
the Clouded Tiger.

They covered thirty miles a day on foot and pony, raising the blue
wall-like line of the Satpuras as swiftly as might be. Bukta was very
silent.

They began the steep climb a little after noon, but it was near sunset
ere they reached the stone platform clinging to the side of a rifted,
jungle-covered hill, where Jan Chinn the First was laid, as he had
desired, that he might overlook his people. All India is full of
neglected graves that date from the beginning of the eighteenth
century--tombs of forgotten colonels of corps long since disbanded;
mates of East India men who went on shooting expeditions and never came
back; factors, agents, writers, and ensigns of the Honourable the East
India Company by hundreds and thousands and tens of thousands. English
folk forget quickly, but natives have long memories, and if a man has
done good in his life it is remembered after his death. The weathered
marble four-square tomb of Jan Chinn was hung about with wild flowers
and nuts, packets of wax and honey, bottles of native spirits, and
infamous cigars, with buffalo horns and plumes of dried grass. At one
end was a rude clay image of a white man, in the old-fashioned top-hat,
riding on a bloated tiger.

Bukta salamed reverently as they approached. Chinn bared his head and
began to pick out the blurred inscription. So far as he could read it
ran thus--word for word, and letter for letter:

              To the Memory of JOHN CHINN, Esq.
                  Late Collector of............
       ....ithout Bloodshed or...error of Authority
      Employ.only..cans of Conciliat...and Confiden.
              accomplished the...tire Subjection...
                a Lawless and Predatory Peop...
         ....taching them to...ish Government
              by a Conquest over....Minds
         The most perma...and rational Mode of Domini..
          ...Governor General and Counc...engal
              have ordered thi.....erected
         ....arted this Life Aug.  19, 184..Ag...

On the other side of the grave were ancient verses, also very worn. As
much as Chinn could decipher said:

                           ....the savage band
      Forsook their Haunts and b.....is Command
     ....mended..rais check a...st for spoil.
      And.s.ing Hamlets prove his gene....toil.
      Humanit...survey......ights restor..
      A Nation..ield..subdued without a Sword.

For some little time he leaned on the tomb thinking of this dead man
of his own blood, and of the house in Devonshire; then, nodding to the
plains: "Yes; it's a big work all of it even my little share. He must
have been worth knowing.... Bukta, where are my people?"

"Not here, Sahib. No man comes here except in full sun. They wait above.
Let us climb and see."

But Chinn, remembering the first law of Oriental diplomacy, in an even
voice answered: "I have come this far only because the Satpura folk are
foolish, and dared not visit our lines. Now bid them wait on me here. I
am not a servant, but the master of Bhils."

"I go--I go," clucked the old man. Night was falling, and at any moment
Jan Chinn might whistle up his dreaded steed from the darkening scrub.

Now for the first time in a long life Bukta disobeyed a lawful command
and deserted his leader; for he did not come back, but pressed to the
flat table-top of the hill, and called softly. Men stirred all about
him--little trembling men with bows and arrows who had watched the two
since noon.

"Where is he?" whispered one.

"At his own place. He bids you come," said Bukta.

"Now?"

"Now."

"Rather let him loose the Clouded Tiger upon us. We do not go."

"Nor I, though I bore him in my arms when he was a child in this his
life. Wait here till the day."

"But surely he will be angry."

"He will be very angry, for he has nothing to eat. But he has said to me
many times that the Bhils are his children. By sunlight I believe this,
but--by moonlight I am not so sure. What folly have ye Satpura pigs
compassed that ye should need him at all?"

"One came to us in the name of the Government with little ghost-knives
and a magic calf, meaning to turn us into cattle by the cutting off of
our arms. We were greatly afraid, but we did not kill the man. He is
here, bound--a black man; and we think he comes from the west. He said
it was an order to cut us all with knives--especially the women and the
children. We did not hear that it was an order, so we were afraid, and
kept to our hills. Some of our men have taken ponies and bullocks from
the plains, and others pots and cloths and ear-rings."

"Are any slain?"

"By our men? Not yet. But the young men are blown to and fro by many
rumours like flames upon a hill. I sent runners asking for Jan Chinn
lest worse should come to us. It was this fear that he foretold by the
sign of the Clouded Tiger."

"He says it is otherwise," said Bukta; and he repeated, with
amplifications, all that young Chinn had told him at the conference of
the wicker chair.

"Think you," said the questioner, at last, "that the Government will lay
hands on us?"

"Not I," Bukta rejoined. "Jan Chinn will give an order, and ye will
obey. The rest is between the Government and Jan Chinn. I myself know
something of the ghost-knives and the scratching. It is a charm against
the Smallpox. But how it is done I cannot tell. Nor need that concern
you."

"If he stands by us and before the anger of the Government we will most
strictly obey Jan Chinn, except--except we do not go down to that place
to-night."

They could hear young Chinn below them shouting for Bukta; but they
cowered and sat still, expecting the Clouded Tiger. The tomb had been
holy ground for nearly half a century. If Jan Chinn chose to sleep
there, who had better right? But they would not come within eyeshot of
the place till broad day.

At first Chinn was exceedingly angry, till it occurred to him that Bukta
most probably had a reason (which, indeed, he had), and his own dignity
might suffer if he yelled without answer. He propped himself against the
foot of the grave, and, alternately dozing and smoking, came through the
warm night proud that he was a lawful, legitimate, fever-proof Chinn.

He prepared his plan of action much as his grandfather would have done;
and when Bukta appeared in the morning with a most liberal supply of
food, said nothing of the overnight desertion. Bukta would have been
relieved by an outburst of human anger; but Chinn finished his victual
leisurely, and a cheroot, ere he made any sign.

"They are very much afraid," said Bukta, who was not too bold himself.
"It remains only to give orders. They said they will obey if thou wilt
only stand between them and the Government."

"That I know," said Chinn, strolling slowly to the table-land. A few of
the elder men stood in an irregular semicircle in an open glade; but the
ruck of people--women and children were hidden in the thicket. They had
no desire to face the first anger of Jan Chinn the First.

Seating himself on a fragment of split rock, he smoked his cheroot to
the butt, hearing men breathe hard all about him. Then he cried, so
suddenly that they jumped:

"Bring the man that was bound!"

A scuffle and a cry were followed by the appearance of a Hindoo
vaccinator, quaking with fear, bound hand and foot, as the Bhils of old
were accustomed to bind their human sacrifices. He was pushed cautiously
before the presence; but young Chinn did not look at him.

"I said--the man that was bound. Is it a jest to bring me one tied like
a buffalo? Since when could the Bhil bind folk at his pleasure? Cut!"

Half a dozen hasty knives cut away the thongs, and the man crawled
to Chinn, who pocketed his case of lancets and tubes of lymph. Then,
sweeping the semicircle with one comprehensive forefinger, and in the
voice of compliment, he said, clearly and distinctly: "Pigs!

"Ai!" whispered Bukta. "Now he speaks. Woe to foolish people!"

"I have come on foot from my house" (the assembly shuddered) "to make
clear a matter which any other Satpura Bhil would have seen with both
eyes from a distance. But Said, a glance into the bag done and had
found that it contained pure gold pieces, thought that he is now,
after his hometown could travel, even without the grace of the Caliphate,
which was certainly not lower than the thanks of his vizier, and so he
remained to him no word guilty, but told him about, and clearly
that he is no hour longer he will remain.

From the beginning shocked Kalum Beck-deep, but then he laughed mockingly
and said, "You rascal and country runner, you poor fellow!

Where wilt thou thy refuge, if I use my hands of you deduct? Where do
you want to get a lunch and where a night? "" That should not trouble
you, Mr. Kalum-Beck, "Said replied defiantly," you probably had, you do
not see me again!

"He said it and ran to the door out, and Kalum-Beck looked him
speechless before after amazement.

The next morning, however, after the case was over, he sent his
servants Pack from everywhere and let the refugee peek.

Long they searched in vain, but finally one came back and said he had
Said, the shop servant, from a mosque and a caravanserai go. He was quite
changed, wearing a beautiful dress, a dagger and sword and a splendid
turban. As Kalum-Beck Hearing this, he swore and shouted: "He Bestohlen
me and be dressed. Oh, man, I was beaten!" Then he ran for supervisor
of the police, and because you knew he was a relative of Messour,
the Oberkämmerling, either, so it was not difficult to police some
of his servants to gain in order to arrest Said.

Said was sitting in front of a caravanserai, and talked very quietly with
a merchant, because he found, on a trip to Balsora, his hometown,
because some men were suddenly on him and tied him, despite his
opposition hands on the back.

He asked her what she entitle to this outrage, and she replied that
it be done in the name of the police and its rightful territory Kalum-Beck.
At the same time joined the small, ugly man herzu, scorned and mocked
Said, grabbed his bag and moved to the amazement of the bystanders
and screaming with triumph with a big bag of gold out. "Behold! All he
gave me after stolen, the bad man ! he cried, and the people looked
with disgust at the prisoners, and cried: "What, still so young, so
beautiful and yet so bad! At court, the court, that he receive the
bastinado -" So they dragged him away, and a tremendous train people
from all booths closed in, she cried: "Behold, this is the best servant
of the bazaar shop - he has his master bestohlen and escaped - two hundred
gold pieces he has stolen."

The overseer of the police received the prisoners with sinister mien; Said
wanted to speak, but the officers commanded him to remain silent
and interrogated only the small businessman.

He showed him the bag and asked him if him this gold had been stolen;
Kalum-Beck conjured it, but he helped his perjury at the gold, but
not to the beautiful shop servant, his thousand gold pieces worth
it, because the judge said: "After a law that großmächtigster my
Lord, the caliph, only a few days ago has sharpened, every theft,
of a hundred gold pieces, and exceeds at the bazaar is committed
to perpetual banishment to a desert island punished.

The thief comes straight Right on time, he makes the number of twenty
such boys full, tomorrow they will be packed on a barge in the
lake and led.

"Said was in despair, he conjured the officials listen to him, it just a
word with the caliph sprechenzulassen; but he found no mercy. Kalum-Beck,
who has now repented his oath, also spoke for him, but the judge
replied: "You have your gold and can be satisfied, go home and behave
yourself calm, otherwise I punish you for any opposition to ten
pieces of gold."

Kalum silent dismay, but the judge waved, and the unfortunate Said
was removed.

They brought him into a dark and damp prison, nineteen people were
miserable there in the hay around and received him as her companions
suffering with crude laughter and curses against the judge and the
caliph.

So terrible his fate before him was so terrible the idea was on a desert
island to be banished, so he found some solace yet is already the next
day from this terrible prison to be redeemed. But he is very mistaken,
as He believed that his condition on the ship would be better. In the
lower room, where you could not stand upright, was the twenty criminals
hinabgeworfen, and then came and beat them to the best seats. The anchors
were gelichtet, and Said wept bitter tears, as the ship that took
him from his fatherland entfahren should move began.

Only once the day you told them a little bread and fruit and a drink of
sweet water, and it was so dark in the space that you always had
herabbringen lights when the prisoners should eat. Almost every two
or three days they found a dead person among them, as was the unhealthy
air in the water dungeon, and Said was only by his youth and his
firm health. Fourteen days were already on the water, when one day
the waves of intense An unusual and noisy bustle and racing to the ship
originated. ahnete Said that a storm was in the suit, it was even
pleasant to him, because he then hoped to die. heavy the ship was
thrown back and forth, and finally sat there with terrible crash
fixed. Shrieks and howls of the Canopy Schollmeier down and mingled with
the sound of the storm. Finally, it was quiet again, but at the same time
also discovered one of the prisoners that the water penetrate into
the ship.

They knocked on the trapdoor to the top, but you answered them not. So
when the water is always fierce invaded, pushed it with united forces
against the door and blasted them.

They climbed the stairs hinan, but above they found no more people. The
whole ship's crew had been rescued in boats. Now came the most prisoners
in despair because of the increasingly violent storm raged, the ship crash
and lowered it.

Even a few hours they were sitting on the hood and held their last
meal of the inventories, which they found in the ship, then at
once renewed the storm, the ship was from the cliff, what is festsaß,
hinweggerissen and collapsed.

Said had angeklammert on the mast and held him as the ship was broken,
is still solid. The waves threw him back and forth, but he stayed,
rowing with their feet, again and again above. So he swam in perpetual
danger of death for half an hour, as was the chain with the Pfeifchen
back from his dress, and once again he wanted to try if it does not
sounds. With one hand he's holding out with the others, he is to his
mouth, blew a brighter, clearer sound, yell, and immediately went
to the storm and the waves are smooth, as if you had the oil poured
out.

No sooner had He is breathing easier around, if he could espy somewhere
in the country, when the mast under him in a strange way to expand
and began to move, and not limited to his horror, he took it that he is
no longer limited to wood, but on a monstrous dolphin ride, after a
few moments but returned to his version, and as he saw that the dolphin
quickly, but quietly and calmly continued his train swim, he wrote
his miraculous rescue the silver Pfeifchen and gracious fairy, and
called his fiery Thanks to the skies. Arrow Quick bore him his wonderful
horse through the waves, and even before it was evening, he saw
the country and recognized a wide river, in which the dolphin also
einbog immediately.

Upward flow was slower, and so as not to have to swelter, Said was made
up of old magic stories reminded how magic should be the Pfeifchen
out, whistled loudly and heartily wished, and then a good meal. Immediately
the fish kept silent and out of the water appeared a table, so little
wet, as if he were eight days in the sun would have stood, rich
and filled with delicious dishes. Said attacked Weidlich, because his
diet during his captivity had been narrow and miserable, and when he
had sufficiently saturated, he said thanks; plunged down the table,
but he stauchte the dolphin in the side, and immediately swam to
the river this up.

The sun began to sink in, as Said in dark distance a great city saw its
minaret his resemblance to those of Baghdad seemed to have. The thought
of him Baghdad was not very pleasant, but his reliance on the
benevolent fairy was so great that he firmly believed that it would
not play him in the hands of the nefarious Kalum-Beck drop.

To the side, about a mile from town and close to the river, he saw a
magnificent country house, and to his great astonishment, drew the fish
out after this home. On the roof of the house were several nicely dressed
men, and on the shore saw Said one large amount of servants, and all
looked after him and suggested surprise hands together.

On a marble staircase, the water after the castle hinaufführte, held at
the Dolphin, and Said had hardly set foot on the stairs, so it was also
the fish disappeared. At the same time, some servants hurried down the
stairs and asked the name of their Lord, up it to him and gave him dry
clothes. He dressed quickly and followed the servants on the roof,
where he found three men, of which the largest and most friendly to him
and Huldreich entgegenkam. "Who are you, beautiful stranger," he said,
"you are the fish of the sea, and tame the left and right to lead
as the best rider Streitroß?

Are you a magician or a human being like us?" "Sir!" Said replied, "I
feel it in the past few weeks, badly, but if your fun out there, I will
tell you." And now he began and told the three men his story of the moment
his father's house he had left to his wonderful salvation.

Often he was of them with signs of wonder and astonishment interrupted,
but when he had ended said the master of the house, so it was well
received: "I do not trust your words, Said! But you tell us test that
you are in a chain of races won, and that the caliph you a ring gift;
you can probably tell us that "" Here on my heart, I will keep
both, "said the lad," and only with my life so I would have expensive
gifts away, because I respect it for the most beautiful and
gloriously fact that I am the great Caliph from the hands of his
Killer freed. " At the same time he drew chain and ring, and handed
both men.

"When the Prophet's beard, he's, it is my ring!" cried the high,
beautiful man "Grand" Let us embrace it, because here is our savior!
"Said it was like a dream, as these two umschlangen him, but alsobald
threw it down and said," Forgiveness, rulers of the faithful , so that
I have spoken before thee, because thou art none other than Harun
al-Rashid, the great Caliph of Baghdad. "" The I and thy friend, "said
Harun," and from this hour to let all your murky fates turn. Follow me
to Baghdad, will remain in my neighborhood and was one of my officials
familiar, for verily, thou hast in that night showed that you Harun was
not indifferent, and not any of my loyal servant, I would like the
same test!

"Said thanked the caliph, he promised him to always to stay with him
if he had previously been a journey to his father, the great worry to him
must be made, and the caliph was so friendly and cheap. They sat down
quickly on horseback and came before the sunset in Baghdad. The caliph
Said had a long series of beautifully decorated rooms in his palace
and promised to instruct him, moreover, get a house built for him
to leave.

On the first customer of this event hastened the old weapons brothers
Said , the brother of the caliph and the son of the Grand, guilt,
she embraced him as the savior of this expensive men and asked him,
he wants to be her boyfriend.

But before they were speechless astonishment when he said: "Your
friend, I long ago", when he was the chain, which he received as a
prize fight, hervorzog and they remembered this and that.

They had him only schwärzlichbraun and seen with a long beard, and
only when he told how and why he is disfigured, when he justification
of his blunt weapons had brought with them challenged and gave
them the evidence that he Almansor the Brave was only then she
hugged him with jubilation by praising the new and happy, such a
friend to have.

The following day, just as Said with the Grand when Harun was joined
Messour, treasurer of the upper, inside and said, "rulers of the
faithful, so it can be otherwise, I would like you to ask a favor."

"I want to hear before," said Harun. "Outside stands my dear cousin
biological Kalum-Beck, a famous merchant in the bazaar, "he said,"
who has a weird commercial with a man from Balsora, whose son-in
Kalum Beck served afterwards stolen, then away, and nobody knows
where.

Now, however, the father of his son Kalum, and that it has not.

He therefore wishes and asks for the grace you want to power your great
wisdom and enlightenment talk between the man and Balsora from
him. "" I will judge, "replied the caliph."

In half an hour your Lord let cousin with his opponents in enter the
courtroom! "As Messour gratefully went, Harun said:" This is none other
than your father, Said, and since I now fortunately everything,
how it is learned, I will judge as Solomon.

You, Said, you hide behind the curtain of my throne till I call
upon thee, and thou, Grand, makes me at once the poor and hasty
police judges pick, I will need him in the interrogation.

"They did both, as he ordered. Said's heart knocked stronger than his
father, pale and haggard, with shaky steps in the courtroom did occur,
and Kalum-Becks fine, confident smile, which he said to his cousin
whispered Upper treasurer, made him so furious that he is happy
behind the curtain apparent to him losgestürzt would.

Indeed, his greatest suffering and Kümmernisse he had this bad man
to thank.

He whistled
for Bukta as he drew the tape over the stiffening bulk.

"Ten--six--eight--by Jove! It's nearly eleven--call it eleven. Fore-arm,
twenty-four--five--seven and a half. A short tail, too: three feet one.
But what a skin! Oh, Bukta! Bukta! The men with the knives swiftly."

"Is he beyond question dead?" said an awe-stricken voice behind a rock.

"That was not the way I killed my first tiger," said Chinn. "I did not
think that Bukta would run. I had no second gun."

"It--it is the Clouded Tiger," said Bukta, un-heeding the taunt.

"He is dead."

Whether all the Bhils, vaccinated and unvaccinated, of the Satpuras had
lain by to see the kill, Chinn could not say; but the whole hill's flank
rustled with little men, shouting, singing, and stamping. And yet, till
he had made the first cut in the splendid skin, not a man would take a
knife; and, when the shadows fell, they ran from the red-stained tomb,
and no persuasion would bring them back till dawn. So Chinn spent
a second night in the open, guarding the carcass from jackals, and
thinking about his ancestor.

He returned to the lowlands to the triumphal chant of an escorting army
three hundred strong, the Mahratta vaccinator close at his elbow, and
the rudely dried skin a trophy before him. When that army suddenly and
noiselessly disappeared, as quail in high corn, he argued he was near
civilisation, and a turn in the road brought him upon the camp of a wing
of his own corps. He left the skin on a cart-tail for the world to see,
and sought the Colonel.

"They're perfectly right," he explained earnestly. "There isn't an ounce
of vice in 'em. They were only frightened. I've vaccinated the whole
boiling, and they like it awfully. What are--what are we doing here,
sir?"

"That's what I'm trying to find out," said the Colonel. "I don't know
yet whether we're a piece of a brigade or a police force. However, I
think we'll call ourselves a police force. How did you manage to get a
Bhil vaccinated?"

"Well, sir," said Chinn, "I've been thinking it over, and, as far as I
can make out, I've got a sort of hereditary influence over 'em."

"So I know, or I wouldn't have sent you; but what, exactly?"

"It's rather rummy. It seems, from what I can make out, that I'm my
own grandfather reincarnated, and I've been disturbing the peace of the
country by riding a pad-tiger of nights. If I hadn't done that, I don't
think they'd have objected to the vaccination; but the two together were
more than they could stand. And so, sir, I've vaccinated 'em, and shot
my tiger-horse as a sort o' proof of good faith. You never saw such a
skin in your life."

The Colonel tugged his moustache thought-fully. "Now, how the deuce,"
said he, "am I to include that in my report?"

Indeed, the official version of the Bhils' anti-vaccination stampede
said nothing about Lieutenant John Chinn, his godship. But Bukta knew,
and the corps knew, and every Bhil in the Satpura hills knew.

And now Bukta is zealous that John Chinn shall swiftly be wedded and
impart his powers to a son; for if the Chinn succession fails, and
the little Bhils are left to their own imaginings, there will be fresh
trouble in the Satpuras.


THE DEVIL AND THE DEEP SEA

All supplies very bad and dear, and there are no facilities for even the
smallest repairs.--Sailing Directions.


Her nationality was British, but you will not find her house-flag in
the list of our mercantile marine. She was a nine-hundred-ton, iron,
schooner-rigged, screw cargo-boat, differing externally in no way from
any other tramp of the sea. But it is with steamers as it is with men.
There are those who will for a consideration sail extremely close to the
wind; and, in the present state of a fallen world, such people and such
steamers have their use. From the hour that the Aglaia first entered
the Clyde--new, shiny, and innocent, with a quart of cheap champagne
trickling down her cut-water--Fate and her owner, who was also her
captain, decreed that she should deal with embarrassed crowned heads,
fleeing Presidents, financiers of over-extended ability, women to whom
change of air was imperative, and the lesser law-breaking Powers. Her
career led her sometimes into the Admiralty Courts, where the sworn
statements of her skipper filled his brethren with envy. The mariner
cannot tell or act a lie in the face of the sea, or mis-lead a tempest;
but, as lawyers have discovered, he makes up for chances withheld when
he returns to shore, an affidavit in either hand.

The Aglaia figured with distinction in the great Mackinaw salvage-case.
It was her first slip from virtue, and she learned how to change her
name, but not her heart, and to run across the sea. As the Guiding Light
she was very badly wanted in a South American port for the little matter
of entering harbour at full speed, colliding with a coal-hulk and the
State's only man-of-war, just as that man-of-war was going to coal. She
put to sea without explanations, though three forts fired at her for
half an hour. As the Julia M'Gregor she had been concerned in picking up
from a raft certain gentlemen who should have stayed in Noumea, but
who preferred making themselves vastly unpleasant to authority in quite
another quarter of the world; and as the Shah-in-Shah she had been
overtaken on the high seas, indecently full of munitions of war, by the
cruiser of an agitated Power at issue with its neighbour. That time she
was very nearly sunk, and her riddled hull gave eminent lawyers of two
countries great profit. After a season she reappeared as the Martin
Hunt painted a dull slate-colour, with pure saffron funnel, and boats of
robin's-egg blue, engaging in the Odessa trade till she was invited (and
the invitation could not well be disregarded) to keep away from Black
Sea ports altogether.

She had ridden through many waves of depression. Freights might drop
out of sight, Seamen's Unions throw spanners and nuts at certificated
masters, or stevedores combine till cargo perished on the dock-head;
but the boat of many names came and went, busy, alert, and inconspicuous
always. Her skipper made no complaint of hard times, and port officers
observed that her crew signed and signed again with the regularity of
Atlantic liner boatswains. Her name she changed as occasion called;
her well-paid crew never; and a large percentage of the profits of
her voyages was spent with an open hand on her engine-room. She never
troubled the underwriters, and very seldom stopped to talk with a
signal-station, for her business was urgent and private.

But an end came to her tradings, and she perished in this manner. Deep
peace brooded over Europe, Asia, Africa, America, Australasia, and
Polynesia. The Powers dealt together more or less honestly; banks paid
their depositors to the hour; diamonds of price came safely to the
hands of their owners; Republics rested content with their Dictators;
diplomats found no one whose presence in the least incommoded them;
monarchs lived openly with their lawfully wedded wives. It was as though
the whole earth had put on its best Sunday bib and tucker; and business
was very bad for the Martin Hunt. The great, virtuous calm engulfed her,
slate sides, yellow funnel, and all, but cast up in another hemisphere
the steam whaler Haliotis, black and rusty, with a manure-coloured
funnel, a litter of dingy white boats, and an enormous stove, or
furnace, for boiling blubber on her forward well-deck. There could be no
doubt that her trip was successful, for she lay at several ports not too
well known, and the smoke of her trying-out insulted the beaches.

Anon she departed, at the speed of the average London four-wheeler, and
entered a semi-inland sea, warm, still, and blue, which is, perhaps,
the most strictly preserved water in the world. There she stayed for a
certain time, and the great stars of those mild skies beheld her playing
puss-in-the-corner among islands where whales are never found. All
that while she smelt abominably, and the smell, though fishy, was not
whalesome. One evening calamity descended upon her from the island
of Pygang-Watai, and she fled, while her crew jeered at a fat
black-and-brown gunboat puffing far behind. They knew to the last
revolution the capacity of every boat, on those seas, that they were
anxious to avoid. A British ship with a good conscience does not, as
a rule, flee from the man-of-war of a foreign Power, and it is also
considered a breach of etiquette to stop and search British ships at
sea. These things the skipper of the Haliotis did not pause to prove,
but held on at an inspiriting eleven knots an hour till nightfall. One
thing only he overlooked.

The Power that kept an expensive steam-patrol moving up and down those
waters (they had dodged the two regular ships of the station with
an ease that bred contempt) had newly brought up a third and a
fourteen-knot boat with a clean bottom to help the work; and that was
why the Haliotis, driving hard from the east to the west, found herself
at daylight in such a position that she could not help seeing an
arrangement of four flags, a mile and a half behind, which read: "Heave
to, or take the consequences!"

She had her choice, and she took it. The end came when, presuming on her
lighter draught, she tried to draw away northward over a friendly shoal.
The shell that arrived by way of the Chief Engineer's cabin was some
five inches in diameter, with a practice, not a bursting, charge. It had
been intended to cross her bows, and that was why it knocked the
framed portrait of the Chief Engineer's wife--and she was a very pretty
girl--on to the floor, splintered his wash-hand stand, crossed the
alleyway into the engine-room, and striking on a grating, dropped
directly in front of the forward engine, where it burst, neatly
fracturing both the bolts that held the connecting-rod to the forward
crank.

What follows is worth consideration. The forward engine had no more
work to do. Its released piston-rod, therefore, drove up fiercely, with
nothing to check it, and started most of the nuts of the cylinder-cover.
It came down again, the full weight of the steam behind it, and the foot
of the disconnected connecting-rod, useless as the leg of a man with
a sprained ankle, flung out to the right and struck the starboard, or
right-hand, cast-iron supporting-column of the forward engine, cracking
it clean through about six inches above the base, and wedging the
upper portion outwards three inches towards the ship's side. There
the connecting-rod jammed. Meantime, the after-engine, being as yet
unembarrassed, went on with its work, and in so doing brought round at
its next revolution the crank of the forward engine, which smote the
already jammed connecting-rod, bending it and therewith the piston-rod
cross-head--the big cross-piece that slides up and down so smoothly.

The cross-head jammed sideways in the guides, and, in addition
to putting further pressure on the already broken starboard
supporting-column, cracked the port, or left-hand, supporting-column
in two or three places. There being nothing more that could be made to
move, the engines brought up, all standing, with a hiccup that seemed
to lift the Haliotis a foot out of the water; and the engine-room
staff, opening every steam outlet that they could find in the confusion,
arrived on deck somewhat scalded, but calm. There was a sound below of
things happening--a rushing, clicking, purring, grunting, rattling noise
that did not last for more than a minute. It was the machinery adjusting
itself, on the spur of the moment, to a hundred altered conditions. Mr.
Wardrop, one foot on the upper grating, inclined his ear sideways, and
groaned. You cannot stop engines working at twelve knots an hour in
three seconds without disorganising them. The Haliotis slid forward in
a cloud of steam, shrieking like a wounded horse. There was nothing
more to do. The five-inch shell with a reduced charge had settled the
situation. And when you are full, all three holds, of strictly preserved
pearls; when you have cleaned out the Tanna Bank, the Sea-Horse Bank,
and four other banks from one end to the other of the Amanala Sea--when
you have ripped out the very heart of a rich Government monopoly so that
five years will not repair your wrong-doings--you must smile and take
what is in store. But the skipper reflected, as a launch put out from
the man-of-war, that he had been bombarded on the high seas, with the
British flag--several of them--picturesquely disposed above him, and
tried to find comfort from the thought.

"Where," said the stolid naval lieutenant hoisting himself aboard, "where
are those dam' pearls?"

They were there beyond evasion. No affidavit could do away with
the fearful smell of decayed oysters, the diving-dresses, and the
shell-littered hatches. They were there to the value of seventy thousand
pounds, more or less; and every pound poached.

The man-of-war was annoyed; for she had used up many tons of coal, she
had strained her tubes, and, worse than all, her officers and crew had
been hurried. Every one on the Haliotis was arrested and rearrested
several times, as each officer came aboard; then they were told by what
they esteemed to be the equivalent of a midshipman that they were to
consider themselves prisoners, and finally were put under arrest.

"It's not the least good," said the skipper, suavely. "You'd much better
send us a tow--"

"Be still--you are arrest!" was the reply.

"Where the devil do you expect we are going to escape to? We're
helpless. You've got to tow us into somewhere, and explain why you fired
on us. Mr. Wardrop, we're helpless, aren't we?"

"Ruined from end to end," said the man of machinery. "If she rolls, the
forward cylinder will come down and go through her bottom. Both columns
are clean cut through. There's nothing to hold anything up."

The council of war clanked off to see if Mr. Wardrop's words were true.
He warned them that it was as much as a man's life was worth to enter
the engine-room, and they contented themselves with a distant inspection
through the thinning steam. The Haliotis lifted to the long, easy swell,
and the starboard supporting-column ground a trifle, as a man grits
his teeth under the knife. The forward cylinder was depending on that
unknown force men call the pertinacity of materials, which now and then
balances that other heartbreaking power, the perversity of inanimate
things.

"You see!" said Mr. Wardrop, hurrying them away. Shocked and confused
following the unfortunate passengers of the hunters in the room
of the countess, that it was so close and so loud it was heard that
it was not a word escaped.

She was pale and trembled, but she seemed determined to be in their
destiny revealed.

"Why should I use the lives of so many brave people gamble with?"
she asked. "Why are you in a futile defense ask you who you say that I
am not at all Kennet? No, I see that no other life, as the poor to
follow." It was generally about the courage and the tragedy of the
lady is taken, the Hunter cried and swore that he could not survive
the humiliation. schmähte The student but to himself and his six-foot
size.

"If I were only half a small head," he cried, "and I had no beard, so
I knew probably what I would do, I would me from the wife Countess
clothes, and these ends should be late enough to know what Mißgriff
they did. "Also on Felix had the misfortune of this woman made a great
impression. your whole being came to him so touching and familiar it
was him, as if it were his early deceased mother who are in this terrible
situation. He felt so lifted, so bravely, that he likes his life for
theirs had been.

But when the student spoke those words, there flashed at once a thought
in his soul, he forgot all fear, all the considerations, and he
thought only of the salvation of this woman.

"Is it only this," he said, by his shy and blushing hervortrat, "includes
only a small body, a loose upon the chin and a courageous heart
to the madam to save, so perhaps I'm not too bad about this; ziehet
in God's name on my skirt, setzet my hat to your beautiful hair and
take my bundles on their backs and ziehet as Felix, the gold worker,
your street!

"Everyone was amazed at the courage of youth, but the hunter fell to him
joyfully neck. "Golden Boy", he cried, "that you wanted to do? Wanted you
in my clothes stuck my lady, and save them? That God has saved you, but
you're not alone shalt go, I caught myself with that wants to stay with
you at your side as your best friend, and as long as I live, they
may not harm you. "" I too would prefer to you, so I live!

" cried the student. It took a long persuasion, to the countess on this
proposal to talk about.

She could not bear the thought that a stranger to them should be
sacrificed, they thought, in the case of a subsequent discovery of the
revenge of the robbers, on the whole of the unfortunate fall would
be terrible. But at last won some of the entreaties of the young
people, and partly the conviction in the case they would be rescued, all
of proposed to be able to meet their rescuers once again liberated. They
agreed. The hunter and the other passengers Felix escorted into the room
of the student, where he quickly dress some of the Countess überwarf.

The hunter sat him on the abundance some false hair curls of the
chamber and a woman Damenhut, and all insured that he would not
recognize.

Even the circle blacksmith swore that if he met on the street, he nimbly
pull the hat and would not guess that he is in front of his brave
comrades doing his compliment. The countess had, however, with the
help of their woman from the Chamber of the young gold Ränzchen
worker provide with clothes. The hat, deep into the forehead pressed
to the floor in the travel sector, which has become somewhat easier
bundles on their backs, they completely obliterated, and the
passengers were at any other time on this strange little masquerade
not have laughed.

The new craft lad Felix thanked with tears and promised to help quickly.
"Only one request I have," answered Felix, "in this Ränzchen that
you wear on your back, there is a small box, store it carefully,
if they lost, I would be forever and eternally unhappy, I must bring
my Pflegmutter and - "" Gottfried, the hunter knows my castle, "said
she," it is undamaged you all once again be postponed, for I hope
your kommet even then, noble young man, thanks to my husband's and
mine to receive.

"marriage yet Felix could respond, sounded from the stairs since the
rough voices of the robbers, they cried, the deadline was verflossen
and everything to the departure of the Countess ready.

The hunters went down to them and told them that he not leave the lady
and would prefer to go with them, while it also had before it, without
his mistress before his Lord appear. The student said that this lady
to want to accompany. They discuss about the case and finally confessed
to the condition that the hunter immediately his arms. At the same
time she ordered that the other passengers should behave quietly when
the Countess brought out Felix would let the veil down over his hat
gebreitet was sat down in a corner of the forehead in his hand having,
and in this position for a deep afflicted he expected the
robbers. The travelers had in the other room to be withdrawn, so that
what was experiencing, could look over and the hunters sat seem sad,
but everything lurking in the other corner of the room, the countess
had inhabited. After a few minutes as they sat, went to the door, and
a beautiful, stately dressed man of about six years came in the room.
He wore a kind of military uniform, a medal on the chest, a long sword
at his side, and in his hand he held a hat, from which fine feathers
herabwallten. Two of his men had just after his entrance the door
busy. He went with a deep bow to Felix about it seemed to this lady
in front of a rank somewhat embarrassed to be, he continued several
times until he succeeded, sort to speak. "madam," he said, "there are
cases in which you must send in patience. This is yours. Do not
think that I have respect for such a great lady and just a moment
from the eyes set will you have all the conveniences you will have
nothing to complain about as perhaps the horrors that you had this
evening. " Here he inne, as he awaited an answer, but as Felix
doggedly silent, he continued: "You see in me no common thief, no
Kehlenabschneider.

I am an unfortunate man, the adverse conditions of life forced on
this. Let us forever remove from the area, but we need travel
money. It would have been us a light, clerks or mail to hijack cars,
but then we would have perhaps several more people on the disaster.
The Lord Count, your husband, has six weeks inheritance of
fünfmalhunderttausend crowns made. We ask ourselves twenty thousand
guilders of this abundance, certainly a fair and modest demand.
They will therefore have the grace, now at once an open letter to
your husband to write what you notify him that we held back, that the
payment as soon as possible may afford, otherwise - you understand me
that we had something even harder with you proceed. The payment will
not be accepted if they are not under the seal of the strictest
secrecy by a single man is hierhergebracht. "This scene was with
the team to test all the attention from guests of the Forest Tavern,
at the most timid of the Countess observed. She thought every moment, the
young man who sacrificed for them, could be betrayed. She was determined
to make him a large ransom price, but it was just her idea, at any price
in the world just one step with the robbers to go. She was in the bag
of gold rock worker found a knife. She held it open spasmodic in
hand, prepared to kill rather than to suffer such ignominy. But no
less anxious themselves While Felix was strengthened and consoled
him the idea that there is a male and was indeed worthy, a beleaguered,
helpless woman in this way to help, but he feared, by every movement,
his voice betraying.

His anxiety increased when the robbers by a letter saying that he
should write.

What should he write? What counts indicate the title, which form the letters,
without having to betray? His anxiety grew over the top but, as the
leader of the robbers paper and pen laid down before him, asked
him, the veil back and write.

Felix did not know how hübsch costume suited him, in which he was
dressed, he would have known he would be faced with a discovery
not in the least have feared.

Because when he finally forced the veil zurückschlug, the Lord appeared
in uniform, struck by the beauty of the lady and her somewhat
masculine, bold features, she only has to look reverently. The clear
view of the young goldsmith did not; comforted that at least in this
dangerous moment, no discovery was to be afraid, he took the pen and
wrote to his alleged husband after a form, as he once read an old book,
he wrote : "My Lord and husband, I am unhappy woman on my trip in the
middle of the night suddenly stopped, and from people I do not what good
intentions can be trusted. you are as long as I hold back till
you, Mr.

Graf, the sum of 20 000 guilders for me have resigned. The condition is
that you are not in the least about the matter with the authorities still
complain their help, to consider, that the money by a single man
in the tavern in the Spessart forest chic; is failing me with a
long and hard captivity threatened.

It begs Schleuniger you to help your unfortunate wife.

"He handed the strange letter the leader of the robbers, who durchlas
and approved." It is entirely on your definition of, "he continued," if
your wife or your Chamber of hunters choose to be accompanied. One of
these people I will be with the Lord to your letters to husband to return.
"" The Hunter "and this gentleman here will accompany me," answered
Felix. "Well," replied that, he went to the door and the Chamber of Women
herbeirief, "says this woman teach you what to do!" The woman appeared
with chamber and seismic tremors. erblaßte Felix Even when he thought
how easily he also could tell you now. But incomprehensible courage
of him in those dangerous strengthened moments, gave him back his speeches
now admits.

"I have nothing further to apply to you," he said, "as the counts
that you ask me as soon as possible from this unfortunate situation
to tear."

    "And," the robbers continued, "the Lord that you count on accurate
and explicit recommendation that he hide everything and nothing
against our company, until his wife in his hands.

Our spies tell us soon enough to teach, and I would then stand for nothing.
"The Chamber trembling woman promised everything. It was still ordered
her some clothes and stuff Linne for Women Countess in a bundle pack,
because you are not loaded with too much luggage can, and when this had
happened, called the leader of the robbers, the lady with a bow on,
to follow him. Felix stood up, the hunter and the student followed
him, and all three went up, accompanied by the leader of the robbers,
the stairs. Before the Forest Tavern, many horses, one of the hunters
was instructed, another, a beautiful little animal, with a women's
saddle which stood ready for the countess, a third were given to the
students. The captain lifted the young goldsmith in the saddle, strapped
him and then ascended his own horse. He turned to rights of the lady on
the left was one of the robbers, in the same manner were the hunters and
the student is surrounded. After the rest of that gang on horseback
had been the leader with a whistle helltönenden the signal for
departure, and soon was the whole crowd in the forest disappeared. The
company, which collects in the upper room was recovered after
this appearance gradually from its horrors. They would like it great or
sudden misfortune happened to cultivates risk, perhaps even been clear,
she would not the thought of her three companions employed, one in
front of their eyes had. They broke out in admiration of the young
goldsmith, and the countess shed tears of emotion when they thought
that a man so infinitely much to thank for that, which they never
before done so well that they do not even know. it was a consolation
for all that the hunters and heldenmütige Wacker student had
accompanied him, they could comfort him when the young man felt
unhappy, yes, the idea was not even remote, that the devious Waidmann
perhaps funds could find their flight.

They consulted with each other nor what to do. The Countess decided,
because they have no oath against robbers tie, immediately on her husband
zurückzureisen and everything aufzubieten, residence of the prisoner
to discover, to exempt the carter promised after Aschaffenburg to ride
and the courts in pursuit of the robbers call. The Circle blacksmith
but wanted to continue his journey. The travelers were in the night
no longer worried; dead silence reigned in the Forest Tavern, which
was recently the scene of such terrible scenes had been. But when the
morning the servants of the Countess to the landlady hinabgingen,
everything ready for departure to make it quickly turned back and
reported that the landlady and her servants in had found a destitute
condition, they were bound in the tavern, and begged for help. The
passengers were surprised at this message on. "How?" cried the blacksmith
circle, "so these people should still be innocent? So we would have
done them wrong, and it stands not in collusion with the robbers?

"" I shall hang myself instead, "replied the coachman, 'if we had
not quite yet. This is just fraud, not to be transferred to them.
Reminds you not of the suspect miens this economy? Reminds you not,
than I what you wanted, as I trained the dog not letting go, as the
hostess and the house servant appeared immediately and asked sullenly,
because what I have to do it? But they are our least fortunate of women
Countess. Had it in the tavern less suspicious that which would have us
not be so suspicious landlady made, we would not be standing together,
would not have remained awake.

The robbers had attacked us in sleep, had less to our door guard, and
this confusion of good young lads would never have become possible.
"She agreed with the opinion of the carter all agreed and decided to
even the landlady and her servants in the government indicated . But
in order to make more secure, they now wanted nothing to remember. The
officials and the carter went down therefore into the Schenkenberger
room, broke the bonds of Diebeshehler and testified as compassionate and
regretful as possible. To its guests even more to reconcile, the landlady
made only a small bill for everyone and invited them to come back
soon. The Carter paid his mine, took of his suffering comrades
farewell and drove his street. This made the two boys craft on the
way. So easy the bundle of the goldsmith, so put it but the delicate
little lady does not. But there was a lot harder about their hearts,
as under the door to her landlady criminal hinstreckte hand, in order
to leave. "Oh, what are you but a young blood, "she cried at the farewell
gentle boy," is still so young and already in the world! You're certainly
a rotten herbs, which the masters from the workshop chased. Now, what
is to me, schenket me the honor at the homecoming, happy journey!
"The countess dared quake with fear and not to reply, she feared
that through their delicate voice betrayed. Zirkel The blacksmith noticed
it, took his companion by the arm, said the landlady ade and agreed
a funny song, while he cut the wood.

"Now I am safe," cried the countess, as they are about a hundred steps
were removed. "Still I believed the woman would recognize me, and through
its servants arrested. Oh, how I want to thank you all! Kommet your
on my lock, but you must Euern traveling with me pick up again.
"The blacksmith said to circle, and while they are still talking,
the car came the Countess drove after them, the door was quickly
opened, the lady slipped into it, greeted the young boys craft,
once again, and the car drove on. To the same time, the robbers and
their prisoners to the camp of the gang met. They were a ungebahnte
Waldstraße in the fastest trotting weggeritten; with their prisoner
they changed not a word, even among themselves they whispered only
occasionally, when the direction of the path is changed.

In a deep forest ravine, they finally stop. The robbers were, and their
leader lifted the gold workers from the horse, by throwing himself
to the harsh and hasty ride apologized and asked if but madam not
too much was attacked.

Felix answered him so dainty as possible that he is longing for
peace, and the captain gave him the arm, it drove to the gorge.

It went down a steep slope, and the footpath, which goes down, it was
so narrow and precipitous, that the leaders often support his lady had
to order them from the danger hinabzustürzen, is maintained. At last one
below.

Felix looked ahead at the dawn of dull glow of the morning a narrow,
small valley no more than a hundred paces in scope, profound in the boilers
was highly hinanstrebender rocks.

About six to eight small cabins were in this canyon and boards cut
from trees established.

Wardrop was buried in thought, and
scratched imaginary lines with his untrimmed finger-nails on the
planking.

"I make no promise," he said, at last, "for I can't say what may or may
not have happened to them. But here's the ship, and here's us."

There was a little scornful laughter at this, and Mr. Wardrop knitted
his brows. He recalled that in the days when he wore trousers he had
been Chief Engineer of the Haliotis.

"Harland, Mackesy, Noble, Hay, Naughton, Fink, O'Hara, Trumbull."

"Here, sir!" The instinct of obedience waked to answer the roll-call of
the engine-room.

"Below!"

They rose and went.

"Captain, I'll trouble you for the rest of the men as I want them. We'll
get my stores out, and clear away the shores we don't need, and
then we'll patch her up. My men will remember that they're in the
Haliotis,--under me."

He went into the engine-room, and the others stared. They were used to
the accidents of the sea, but this was beyond their experience. None
who had seen the engine-room believed that anything short of new engines
from end to end could stir the Haliotis from her moorings.

The engine-room stores were unearthed, and Mr. Wardrop's face, red with
the filth of the bilges and the exertion of travelling on his stomach,
lit with joy. The spare gear of the Haliotis had been unusually
complete, and two-and-twenty men, armed with screw-jacks, differential
blocks, tackle, vices, and a forge or so, can look Kismet between the
eyes without winking. The crew were ordered to replace the holding-down
and shaft-bearing bolts, and return the collars of the thrust-block.
When they had finished, Mr. Wardrop delivered a lecture on repairing
compound engines without the aid of the shops, and the men sat about on
the cold machinery. The cross-head jammed in the guides leered at them
drunkenly, but offered no help. They ran their fingers hopelessly into
the cracks of the starboard supporting-column, and picked at the ends
of the ropes round the shores, while Mr. Wardrop's voice rose and fell
echoing, till the quick tropic night closed down over the engine-room
skylight.

Next morning the work of reconstruction began. It has been explained
that the foot of the connecting-rod was forced against the foot of the
starboard supporting-column, which it had cracked through and driven
outward towards the ship's skin. To all appearance the job was more than
hopeless, for rod and column seemed to have been welded into one. But
herein Providence smiled on them for one moment to hearten them
through the weary weeks ahead. The second engineer--more reckless than
resourceful--struck at random with a cold chisel into the cast-iron
of the column, and a greasy, grey flake of metal flew from under the
imprisoned foot of the connecting-rod, while the rod itself fell away
slowly, and brought up with a thunderous clang somewhere in the dark
of the crank-pit. The guides-plates above were still jammed fast in the
guides, but the first blow had been struck. They spent the rest of the
day grooming the donkey-engine, which stood immediately forward of the
engine-room hatch. Its tarpaulin, of course, had been stolen, and eight
warm months had not improved the working parts. Further, the last dying
hiccup of the Haliotis seemed--or it might have been the Malay from the
boat-house--to have lifted the thing bodily on its bolts, and set it
down inaccurately as regarded its steam connections.

"If we only had one single cargo-derrick!" Mr. Wardrop sighed. "We can
take the cylinder-cover off by hand, if we sweat; but to get the rod
out o' the piston's not possible unless we use steam. Well, there'll be
steam the morn, if there's nothing else. She'll fizzle!"

Next morning men from the shore saw the Haliotis through a cloud, for it
was as though the deck smoked. Her crew were chasing steam through the
shaken and leaky pipes to its work in the forward donkey-engine; and
where oakum failed to plug a crack, they stripped off their loin-cloths
for lapping, and swore, half-boiled and mother-naked. The donkey-engine
worked--at a price--the price of constant attention and furious
stoking--worked long enough to allow a wire-rope (it was made up of a
funnel and a foremast-stay) to be led into the engine-room and made fast
on the cylinder-cover of the forward engine. That rose easily enough,
and was hauled through the skylight and on to the deck, many hands
assisting the doubtful steam. Then came the tug of war, for it was
necessary to get to the piston and the jammed piston-rod. They removed
two of the piston junk-ring studs, screwed in two strong iron eye-bolts
by way of handles, doubled the wire-rope, and set half a dozen men to
smite with an extemporised battering-ram at the end of the piston-rod,
where it peered through the piston, while the donkey-engine hauled
upwards on the piston itself. After four hours of this furious work, the
piston-rod suddenly slipped, and the piston rose with a jerk, knocking
one or two men over into the engine-room. But when Mr. Wardrop declared
that the piston had not split, they cheered, and thought nothing of
their wounds; and the donkey-engine was hastily stopped; its boiler was
nothing to tamper with.

And day by day their supplies reached them by boat. The skipper humbled
himself once more before the Governor, and as a concession had leave to
get drinking-water from the Malay boat-builder on the quay. It was not
good drinking-water, but the Malay was anxious to supply anything in his
power, if he were paid for it.

Now when the jaws of the forward engine stood, as it were, stripped and
empty, they began to wedge up the shores of the cylinder itself. That
work alone filled the better part of three days--warm and sticky days,
when the hands slipped and sweat ran into the eyes. When the last
wedge was hammered home there was no longer an ounce of weight on the
supporting-columns; and Mr. Wardrop rummaged the ship for boiler-plate
three-quarters of an inch thick, where he could find it. There was not
much available, but what there was was more than beaten gold to him. In
one desperate forenoon the entire crew, naked and lean, haled back,
more or less into place, the starboard supporting-column, which, as you
remember, was cracked clean through. Mr. Wardrop found them asleep where
they had finished the work, and gave them a day's rest, smiling upon
them as a father while he drew chalk-marks about the cracks. They woke
to new and more trying labour; for over each one of those cracks a plate
of three-quarter-inch boiler-iron was to be worked hot, the rivet-holes
being drilled by hand. All that time they were fed on fruits, chiefly
bananas, with some sago.

Those were the days when men swooned over the ratchet-drill and the
hand-forge, and where they fell they had leave to lie unless their
bodies were in the way of their fellows' feet. And so, patch upon patch,
and a patch over all, the starboard supporting-column was clouted; but
when they thought all was secure, Mr. Wardrop decreed that the noble
patchwork would never support working engines; at the best, it could
only hold the guide-bars approximately true, he deadweight of the
cylinders must be borne by vertical struts; and, therefore, a gang would
repair to the bows, and take out, with files, the big bow-anchor davits,
each of which was some three inches in diameter. They threw hot coals at
Wardrop, and threatened to kill him, those who did not weep (they were
ready to weep on the least provocation); but he hit them with iron bars
heated at the end, and they limped forward, and the davits came with
them when they returned. They slept sixteen hours on the strength of it,
and in three days two struts were in place, bolted from the foot of the
starboard supporting-column to the under side of the cylinder. There
remained now the port, or condenser-column, which, though not so badly
cracked as its fellow, had also been strengthened in four places
with boiler-plate patches, but needed struts. They took away the main
stanchions of the bridge for that work, and, crazy with toil, did
not see till all was in place that the rounded bars of iron must be
flattened from top to bottom to allow the air-pump levers to clear them.
It was Wardrop's oversight, and he wept bitterly before the men as he
gave the order to unbolt the struts and flatten them with hammer and the
flame. Now the broken engine was underpinned firmly, and they took away
the wooden shores from under the cylinders, and gave them to the robbed
bridge, thanking God for even half a day's work on gentle, kindly wood
instead of the iron that had entered into their souls. Eight months
in the back-country among the leeches, at a temperature of 84 degrees
moist, is very bad for the nerves.

They had kept the hardest work to the last, as boys save Latin prose,
and, worn though they were, Mr. Wardrop did not dare to give them rest.
The piston-rod and connecting-rod were to be straightened, and this
was a job for a regular dockyard with every appliance. They fell to it,
cheered by a little chalk showing of work done and time consumed which
Mr. Wardrop wrote up on the engine-room bulkhead. Fifteen days had
gone--fifteen days of killing labour--and there was hope before them.

It is curious that no man knows how the rods were straightened. The
crew of the Haliotis remember that week very dimly, as a fever patient
remembers the delirium of a long night. There were fires everywhere,
they say; the whole ship was one consuming furnace, and the hammers were
never still. Now, there could not have been more than one fire at the
most, for Mr. Wardrop distinctly recalls that no straightening was done
except under his own eye. They remember, too, that for many years voices
gave orders which they obeyed with their bodies, but their minds were
abroad on all the seas. It seems to them that they stood through days
and nights slowly sliding a bar backwards and forwards through a white
glow that was part of the ship. They remember an intolerable noise in
their burning heads from the walls of the stoke-hole, and they remember
being savagely beaten by men whose eyes seemed asleep. When their
shift was over they would draw straight lines in the air, anxiously and
repeatedly, and would question one another in their sleep, crying, "Is
she straight?"

At last--they do not remember whether this was by day or by night--Mr.
Wardrop began to dance clumsily, and wept the while; and they too danced
and wept, and went to sleep twitching all over; and when they woke, men
said that the rods were straightened, and no one did any work for two
days, but lay on the decks and ate fruit. Mr. Wardrop would go below
from time to time, and pat the two rods where they lay, and they heard
him singing hymns.

Then his trouble of mind went from him, and at the end of the third
day's idleness he made a drawing in chalk upon the deck, with letters of
the alphabet at the angles. He pointed out that, though the piston-rod
was more or less straight, the piston-rod cross-head--the thing that
had been jammed sideways in the guides--had been badly strained, and
had cracked the lower end of the piston-rod. He was going to forge and
shrink a wrought-iron collar on the neck of the piston-rod where it
joined the cross-head, and from the collar he would bolt a Y-shaped
piece of iron whose lower arms should be bolted into the cross-head.
If anything more were needed, they could use up the last of the
boiler-plate.

So the forges were lit again, and men burned their bodies, but hardly
felt the pain. The finished connection was not beautiful, but it seemed
strong enough--at least, as strong as the rest of the machinery; and
with that job their labours came to an end. All that remained was to
connect up the engines, and to get food and water. The skipper and four
men dealt with the Malay boat-builder by night chiefly; it was no time
to haggle over the price of sago and dried fish. The others stayed
aboard and replaced piston, piston-rod, cylinder-cover, cross-head, and
bolts, with the aid of the faithful donkey-engine. The cylinder-cover
was hardly steam-proof, and the eye of science might have seen in the
connecting-rod a flexure something like that of a Christmas-tree candle
which has melted and been straightened by hand over a stove, but, as Mr.
Wardrop said, "She didn't hit anything."

As soon as the last bolt was in place, men tumbled over one another in
their anxiety to get to the hand starting-gear, the wheel and worm,
by which some engines can be moved when there is no steam aboard. They
nearly wrenched off the wheel, but it was evident to the blindest eye
that the engines stirred. They did not revolve in their orbits with any
enthusiasm, as good machines should; indeed, they groaned not a little;
but they moved over and came to rest in a way which proved that they
still recognised man's hand. Then Mr. Wardrop sent his slaves into the
darker bowels of the engine-room and the stoke-hole, and followed them
with a flare-lamp. The boilers were sound, but would take no harm from
a little scaling and cleaning. Mr. Wardrop would not have any one
over-zealous, for he feared what the next stroke of the tool might show.
"The less we know about her now," said he, "the better for us all,
I'm thinkin'. Ye'll understand me when I say that this is in no sense
regular engineerin'."

As his raiment, when he spoke, was his grey beard and uncut hair, they
believed him. They did not ask too much of what they met, but polished
and tallowed and scraped it to a false brilliancy.

"A lick of paint would make me easier in my mind," said Mr. Wardrop,
plaintively. "I know half the condenser-tubes are started; and the
propeller-shaftin''s God knows how far out of the true, and we'll need
a new air-pump, an' the main-steam leaks like a sieve, and there's worse
each way I look; but--paint's like clothes to a man, 'an ours is near
all gone."

The skipper unearthed some stale ropy paint of the loathsome green that
they used for the galleys of sailing-ships, and Mr. Wardrop spread it
abroad lavishly to give the engines self-respect.

His own was returning day by day, for he wore his loin-cloth
continuously; but the crew, having worked under orders, did not feel as
he did. The completed work satisfied Mr. Wardrop. He would at the last
have made shift to run to Singapore, and gone home without vengeance
taken to show his engines to his brethren in the craft; but the
others and the captain forbade him. They had not yet recovered their
self-respect.

"It would be safer to make what ye might call a trial trip, but beggars
mustn't be choosers; an if the engines will go over to the hand-gear,
the probability--I'm only saying it's a probability--the chance is that
they'll hold up when we put steam on her."

"How long will you take to get steam?" said the skipper.

"God knows! Four hours--a day--half a week. If I can raise sixty pound
I'll not complain."

"Be sure of her first; we can't afford to go out half a mile, and break
down."

"My soul and body, man, we're one continuous breakdown, fore an' aft! We
might fetch Singapore, though."

"We'll break down at Pygang-Watai, where we can do good," was the
answer, in a voice that did not allow argument. "She's my boat,
and--I've had eight months to think in."

No man saw the Haliotis depart, though many heard her. She left at two
in the morning, having cut her moorings, and it was none of her crew's
pleasure that the engines should strike up a thundering half-seas-over
chanty that echoed among the hills. Mr. Wardrop wiped away a tear as he
listened to the new song.

"She's gibberin'--she's just gibberin'," he whimpered. "Yon's the voice
of a maniac."

And if engines have any soul, as their masters believe, he was quite
right. There were outcries and clamours, sobs and bursts of chattering
laughter, silences where the trained ear yearned for the clear note, and
torturing reduplications where there should have been one deep voice.
Down the screw-shaft ran murmurs and warnings, while a heart-diseased
flutter without told that the propeller needed re-keying.

"How does she make it?" said the skipper.

"She moves, but--but she's breakin' my heart. The sooner we're at
Pygang-Watai, the better. She's mad, and we're waking the town."

"Is she at all near safe?"

"What do I care how safe she is? She's mad. Hear that, now! To be sure,
nothing's hittin' anything, and the bearin's are fairly cool, but--can
ye not hear?"

"If she goes," said the skipper, "I don't care a curse. And she's my
boat, too."

She went, trailing a fathom of weed behind her. From a slow two knots an
hour she crawled up to a triumphant four. Anything beyond that made
the struts quiver dangerously, and filled the engine-room with steam.
Morning showed her out of sight of land, and there was a visible ripple
under her bows; but she complained bitterly in her bowels, and, as
though the noise had called it, there shot along across the purple sea
a swift, dark proa, hawk-like and curious, which presently ranged
alongside and wished to know if the Haliotis were helpless. Ships, even
the steamers of the white men, had been known to break down in those
waters, and the honest Malay and Javanese traders would sometimes aid
them in their own peculiar way. But this ship was not full of lady
passengers and well-dressed officers. Men, white, naked and savage,
swarmed down her sides--some with red-hot iron bars, and others with
large hammers--threw themselves upon those innocent inquiring strangers,
and, before any man could say what had happened, were in full possession
of the proa, while the lawful owners bobbed in the water overside.
Half an hour later the proa's cargo of sago and trepang, as well as a
doubtful-minded compass, was in the Haliotis. The two huge triangular
mat sails, with their seventy-foot yards and booms, had followed the
cargo, and were being fitted to the stripped masts of the steamer.

They rose, they swelled, they filled, and the empty steamer visibly laid
over as the wind took them. They gave her nearly three knots an hour,
and what better could men ask? But if she had been forlorn before, this
new purchase made her horrible to see. Imagine a respectable charwoman
in the tights of a ballet-dancer rolling drunk along the streets,
and you will come to some faint notion of the appearance of that
nine-hundred-ton, well-decked, once schooner-rigged cargo-boat as she
staggered under her new help, shouting and raving across the deep. With
steam and sail that marvellous voyage continued; and the bright-eyed
crew looked over the rail, desolate, unkempt, unshorn, shamelessly
clothed beyond the decencies.

At the end of the third week she sighted the island of Pygang-Watai,
whose harbour is the turning-point of a pearl sea-patrol. Here the
gun-boats stay for a week ere they retrace their line. There is no
village at Pygang-Watai; only a stream of water, some palms, and a
harbour safe to rest in till the first violence of the southeast monsoon
has blown itself out.

They opened up the low coral beach, with its mound of whitewashed coal
ready for supply, the deserted huts for the sailors, and the flagless
flagstaff.

Next day there was no Haliotis--only a little proa rocking in the warm
rain at the mouth of the harbour, whose crew watched with hungry eyes
the smoke of a gunboat on the horizon.

Months afterwards there were a few lines in an English newspaper to the
effect that some gunboat of some foreign Power had broken her back
at the mouth of some far-away harbour by running at full speed into a
sunken wreck.


WILLIAM THE CONQUEROR

PART I


                  I have done one braver thing
                   Than all the worthies did;
                  And yet a braver thence doth spring,
                   Which is to keep that hid.

                                       The Undertaking.

"Is it officially declared yet?"

"They've gone as far as to admit 'extreme local scarcity,' and they've
started relief-works in one or two districts, the paper says."

"That means it will be declared as soon as they can make sure of the men
and the rolling-stock. Shouldn't wonder if it were as bad as the '78
Famine."

"'Can't be," said Scott, turning a little in the long cane chair.

"We've had fifteen-anna crops in the north, and Bombay and Bengal report
more than they know what to do with. They'll be able to check it before
it gets out of hand. It will only be local."

Martyn picked the "Pioneer" from the table, read through the telegrams
once more, and put up his feet on the chair-rests. It was a hot, dark,
breathless evening, heavy with the smell of the newly watered Mall. The
flowers in the Club gardens were dead and black on their stalks, the
little lotus-pond was a circle of caked mud, and the tamarisk-trees were
white with the dust of weeks. Most of the men were at the band-stand
in the public gardens--from the Club verandah you could hear the native
Police band hammering stale waltzes--or on the polo-ground, or in the
high-walled fives-court, hotter than a Dutch oven. Half a dozen grooms,
squatted at the heads of their ponies, waited their masters' return.
From time to time a man would ride at a foot-pace into the Club
compound, and listlessly loaf over to the whitewashed barracks beside
the main building. These were supposed to be chambers. Men lived in
them, meeting the same white faces night after night at dinner, and
drawing out their office-work till the latest possible hour, that they
might escape that doleful company.

"What are you going to do?" said Martyn, with a yawn. "Let's have a
swim before dinner."

"Water's hot. I was at the bath to-day."

"Play you game o' billiards--fifty up."

"It's a hundred and five in the hall now. Sit still and don't be so
abominably energetic."

A grunting camel swung up to the porch, his badged and belted rider
fumbling a leather pouch.

"Kubber-kargaz-ki-yektraaa," the man whined, handing down the newspaper
extra--a slip printed on one side only, and damp from the press. It was
pinned up on the green-baize board, between notices of ponies for sale
and fox-terriers missing.

Martyn rose lazily, read it, and whistled. "It's declared!" he cried.
"One, two, three--eight districts go under the operations of the Famine
Code ek dum. They've put Jimmy Hawkins in charge."

"Good business!" said Scott, with the first sign of interest he had
shown. "When in doubt hire a Punjabi. I worked under Jimmy when I first
came out and he belonged to the Punjab. He has more bundobust than most
men."

"Jimmy's a Jubilee Knight now," said Martyn. "He's a good chap,
even though he is a thrice-born civilian and went to the Benighted
Presidency. What unholy names these Madras districts rejoice in--all
ungas or rungas or pillays or polliums!"

A dog-cart drove up in the dusk, and a man entered, mopping his head.
He was editor of the one daily paper at the capital of a Province of
twenty-five million natives and a few hundred white men: as his staff
was limited to himself and one assistant, his office-hours ran variously
from ten to twenty a day.

"Hi, Raines; you're supposed to know everything," said Martyn, stopping
him. "How's this Madras 'scarcity' going to turn out?"

"No one knows as yet. There's a message as long as your arm coming in
on the telephone. I've left my cub to fill it out. Madras has owned she
can't manage it alone, and Jimmy seems to have a free hand in getting
all the men he needs. Arbuthnot's warned to hold himself in readiness."

"'Badger' Arbuthnot?"

"The Peshawur chap. Yes: and the Pi wires that Ellis and Clay have been
moved from the Northwest already, and they've taken half a dozen Bombay
men, too. It's pukka famine, by the looks of it."

"They're nearer the scene of action than we are; but if it comes to
indenting on the Punjab this early, there's more in this than meets the
eye," said Martyn.

"Here to-day and gone to-morrow. 'Didn't come to stay for ever,"
said Scott, dropping one of Marryat's novels, and rising to his feet.
"Martyn, your sister's waiting for you."

A rough grey horse was backing and shifting at the edge of the verandah,
where the light of a kerosene lamp fell on a brown-calico habit and a
white face under a grey-felt hat.

"Right, O!" said Martyn. "I'm ready. Better come and dine with us, if
you've nothing to do, Scott. William, is there any dinner in the house?"

"I'll go home and see," was the rider's answer. "You can drive him
over--at eight, remember."

Scott moved leisurely to his room, and changed into the evening-dress of
the season and the country: spotless white linen from head to foot,
with a broad silk cummerbund. Dinner at the Martyns' was a decided
improvement on the goat-mutton, twiney-tough fowl, and tinned entrees of
the Club. But it was a great pity that Martyn could not afford to send
his sister to the hills for the hot weather. As an Acting District
Superintendent of Police, Martyn drew the magnificent pay of six hundred
depreciated silver rupees a month, and his little four-roomed bungalow
said just as much. There were the usual blue-and-white-striped jail-made
rugs on the uneven floor; the usual glass-studded Amritsar phulkaris
draped on nails driven into the flaking whitewash of the walls; the
usual half-dozen chairs that did not match, picked up at sales of dead
men's effects; and the usual streaks of black grease where the leather
punka-thong ran through the wall. It was as though everything had been
unpacked the night before to be repacked next morning. Not a door in the
house was true on its hinges. The little windows, fifteen feet up, were
darkened with wasp-nests, and lizards hunted flies between the beams of
the wood-ceiled roof. But all this was part of Scott's life. Thus did
people live who had such an income; and in a land where each man's pay,
age, and position are printed in a book, that all may read, it is hardly
worth while to play at pretence in word or deed. Scott counted eight
years' service in the Irrigation Department, and drew eight hundred
rupees a month, on the understanding that if he served the State
faithfully for another twenty-two years he could retire on a pension of
some four hundred rupees a month. His working-life, which had been spent
chiefly under canvas or in temporary shelters where a man could sleep,
eat, and write letters, was bound up with the opening and guarding of
irrigation canals, the handling of two or three thousand workmen of all
castes and creeds, and the payment of vast sums of coined silver.

He had finished that spring, not without credit, the last section of
the great Mosuhl Canal, and--much against his will, for he hated
office-work--had been sent in to serve during the hot weather on the
accounts and supply side of the Department, with sole charge of the
sweltering sub-office at the capital of the Province. Martyn knew this;
William, his sister, knew it; and everybody knew it. Scott knew, too,
as well as the rest of the world, that Miss Martyn had come out to India
four years ago to keep house for her brother, who, as every one knew,
had borrowed the money to pay for her passage, and that she ought, as
all the world said, to have married at once. In stead of this, she
had refused some half a dozen subalterns, a Civilian twenty years her
senior, one Major, and a man in the Indian Medical Department. This,
too, was common property. She had "stayed down three hot weathers," as
the saying is, because her brother was in debt and could not afford the
expense of her keep at even a cheap hill-station. Therefore her face was
white as bone, and in the centre of her forehead was a big silvery scar
about the size of a shilling--the mark of a Delhi sore, which is the
same as a "Bagdad date." This comes from drinking bad water, and slowly
eats into the flesh till it is ripe enough to be burned out.

None the less William had enjoyed herself hugely in her four years.
Twice she had been nearly drowned while fording a river; once she
had been run away with on a camel; had witnessed a midnight attack of
thieves on her brother's camp; had seen justice administered, with long
sticks, in the open under trees; could speak Urdu and even rough Punjabi
with a fluency that was envied by her seniors; had entirely fallen out
of the habit of writing to her aunts in England, or cutting the pages of
the English magazines; had been through a very bad cholera year, seeing
sights unfit to be told; and had wound up her experiences by six weeks
of typhoid fever, during which her head had been shaved and hoped to
keep her twenty-third birthday that September. It is conceivable that
the aunts would not have approved of a girl who never set foot on the
ground if a horse were within hail; who rode to dances with a shawl
thrown over her skirt; who wore her hair cropped and curling all over
her head; who answered indifferently to the name of William or Bill;
whose speech was heavy with the flowers of the vernacular; who could act
in amateur theatricals, play on the banjo, rule eight servants and
two horses, their accounts and their diseases, and look men slowly and
deliberately between the eyes--even after they had proposed to her and
been rejected.

"I like men who do things," she had confided to a man in the Educational
Department, who was teaching the sons of cloth-merchants and dyers the
beauty of Wordsworth's "Excursion" in annotated cram-books; and when he
grew poetical, William explained that she "didn't understand poetry very
much; it made her head ache," and another broken heart took refuge at
the Club. But it was all William's fault. She delighted in hearing men
talk of their own work, and that is the most fatal way of bringing a man
to your feet.

Scott had known her for some three years, meeting her, as a rule, under
canvass, when his camp and her brother's joined for a day on the edge
of the Indian Desert. He had danced with her several times at the big
Christmas gatherings, when as many as five hundred white people came in
to the station; and had always a great respect for her housekeeping and
her dinners.

She looked more like a boy than ever when, the meal ended, she sat,
rolling cigarettes, her low forehead puckered beneath the dark curls as
she twiddled the papers and stuck out her rounded chin when the tobacco
stayed in place, or, with a gesture as true as a school-boy's throwing a
stone, tossed the finished article across the room to Martyn, who
caught it with one hand, and continued his talk with Scott. It was all
"shop,"--canals and the policing of canals; the sins of villagers who
stole more water than they had paid for, and the grosser sin of native
constables who connived at the thefts; of the transplanting bodily of
villages to newly irrigated ground, and of the coming fight with the
desert in the south when the Provincial funds should warrant the opening
of the long-surveyed Luni Protective Canal System. And Scott spoke
openly of his great desire to be put on one particular section of the
work where he knew the land and the people; and Martyn sighed for a
billet in the Himalayan foot-hills, and said his mind of his superiors,
and William rolled cigarettes and said nothing, but smiled gravely on
her brother because he was happy.

At ten Scott's horse came to the door, and the evening was ended. The
lights of the two low bungalows in which the daily paper was printed
showed bright across the road. It was too early to try to find sleep,
and Scott drifted over to the editor. Raines, stripped to the waist like
a sailor at a gun, lay half asleep in a long chair, waiting for night
telegrams. He had a theory that if a man did not stay by his work all
day and most of the night he laid himself open to fever: so he ate and
slept among his files.

"Can you do it?" he said drowsily. "I didn't mean to bring you over."

"About what? I've been dining at the Martyns'."

"The Madras famine, of course. Martyn's warned, too. They're taking
men where they can find 'em. I sent a note to you at the Club just now,
asking if you could do us a letter once a week from the south--between
two and three columns, say. Nothing sensational, of course, but
just plain facts about who is doing what, and so forth. Our regular
rates--ten rupees a column."

"'Sorry, but it's out of my line," Scott answered, staring absently at
the map of India on the wall. "It's rough on Martyn--very. 'Wonder what
he'll do with his sister? 'Wonder what the deuce they'll do with me?
I've no famine experience. This is the first I've heard of it. Am I
ordered?"

"Oh, yes. Here's the wire. They'll put you on to relief-works," Raines
said, "with a horde of Madrassis dying like flies; one native apothecary
and half a pint of cholera-mixture among the ten thousand of you. It
comes of your being idle for the moment. Every man who isn't doing two
men's work seems to have been called upon. Hawkins evidently believes in
Punjabis. It's going to be quite as bad as anything they have had in the
last ten years."

"It's all in the day's work, worse luck. I suppose I shall get my orders
officially some time to-morrow. I'm awfully glad I happened to drop in.
Better go and pack my kit now. Who relieves me here--do you know?"

Raines turned over a sheaf of telegrams. "McEuan," said he, "from
Murree."

Scott chuckled. "He thought he was going to be cool all summer. He'll be
very sick about this. Well, no good talking. 'Night."

Two hours later, Scott, with a clear conscience, laid himself down to
rest on a string cot in a bare room. Two worn bullock trunks, a leather
water-bottle, a tin ice-box, and his pet saddle sewed up in sacking were
piled at the door, and the Club secretary's receipt for last month's
bill was under his pillow. His orders came next morning, and with them
an unofficial telegram from Sir James Hawkins; who was not in the habit
of forgetting good men when he had once met them, bidding him report
himself with all speed at some unpronounceable place fifteen hundred
miles to the south, for the famine was sore in the land, and white men
were needed.

A pink and fattish youth arrived in the red-hot noonday, whimpering a
little at fate and famines, which never allowed any one three months'
peace. He was Scott's successor--another cog in the machinery, moved
forward behind his fellow whose services, as the official announcement
ran, "were placed at the disposal of the Madras Government for famine
duty until further orders." Scott handed over the funds in his charge,
showed him the coolest corner in the office, warned him against excess
of zeal, and, as twilight fell, departed from the Club in a hired
carriage, with his faithful body-servant, Faiz Ullah, and a mound of
disordered baggage atop, to catch the southern mail at the loopholed and
bastioned railway-station. The heat from the thick brick walls struck
him across the face as if it had been a hot towel; and he reflected that
there were at least five nights and four days of this travel before him.
Faiz Ullah, used to the chances of service, plunged into the crowd on
the stone platform, while Scott, a black cheroot between his teeth,
waited till his compartment should be set away. Am I not worth
guldens Hirsch, who replied with derisive smile, "well, yes you will
see what your legacy of a deer guilders worth, but, keep the pennies
for you!" By this she said, she threw the three young Copper plays the
Count, and so could well throw the old woman, all three just in
the small leather bag fell to the count is still in the hand held.

The Count knew a few minutes before amazed about this wonderful dexterity
no word produce, but finally sparked his rage on in amazement. He grabbed
his rifle, stretched the cock and aimed it at the old woman. herzte
This very quiet and kissed the young Count, by him so to himself,
thought that it had the ball first have to take .

Do a good, pious boy, "she said," remains the only way, and it will not
be missing you. "Then she let him go, dräute the Count with his finger:"
Zollern, Zollern, the deer remains your guldens me guilty, "she cried,
and slipped, unconcerned about the incident to the Count, in a
boxwood sticks in the forest.

Konrad, the squire, but rose trembling from his horse, lifted the
Herrlein in the saddle, swung behind him and rode his commander
after the Schloßberg up.

It was the first and letztemal been that the bad weather of Zollern
Söhnlein his windfall to the walking horse riding, because he held
him because he cried and geschrien, when the horses went at a trot,
for a softness boys from which not much good to do it, just looked
at him with pain, and as often as the boy who loved his father
warmly, friendly and flattering to his knees came, he waved him to
leave and shouted: "white already, stupid stuff, "Ms.

Hedwig had all the evil whims of her husband likes to take, but this
unfriendly behavior against the innocent child she grieved deeply,
and fell ill several times from fright when the sinister Count the
kids because any small mistake abgestraft was hard, and finally
died in their best years, from their servants and the whole
neighborhood, but most painful of her son, beweint.

From now on, turned the meaning of the count even more by the children
from, he gave it to his nurse and chaplain to the House Education
and did not see much for him to, especially since he soon re-married
a rich lady, the year after his twins, two young Gräflein, poured.

Kunos favorite walk was to the old women who's life once he had saved.
She told it is always a lot of his deceased mother, and how much
good they have done to her. The servants and maids often warned him
that he should not so much to the woman Feldheimerin, it was the
old woman go, because they are nothing more and nothing less than
a witch, but the boy was not at the castle because Kaplan had taught
him that there were no witches, and that the myth that some women
can conjure on the Ofengabel through the air and riding on the
Brocken, was lies.

While he saw in the woman Feldheimerin all sorts of things he could not
understand, the art piece with the three pfennigs, which his father
so cleverly thrown into the bag, he still remembered very well,
even she could handle all the ointments and artificial Tränklein
prepare, what they healed people and cattle, but that was not true
what they asserted that they had a weather pan, and if they hang
over the fire, a terrible thunder brings weather.

They taught the young earl some of what he was useful, For example, all
funds for sick horses, a potion against Hundswut, a bait for fish
and many other useful things.

Feldheimerin The woman was his only company soon, because his nurse
died, and his stepmother cared not for him.

When his brothers gradually grew, Kuno had an even sadder life than
before, they were lucky, when you first ride the horse not to rush,
and the bad weather kept them from Zollern therefore quite reasonable
and suitable boy who loved them exclusively, rode every day with
them and taught them everything that he himself understood.

As they learned, but not much good, reading and writing, he could
not himself, and his two splendid sons should also not have the
time so corrupt, but already in its tenth years, they are so terrible
curse like her father, began with each of Handel, vertrugen among
themselves as bad as a dog and cat, and only if it violates Kuno
wanted to perpetrate a trick, they are connected and became friends.
your mother made this is not a lot of grief, because they considered
it to be healthy and strong when the boys balgten, but the old
Counts said it one day a servant, and the answer is "white already,
nonsense!"

Increased but still, for the future on a means to ponder, that his
sons are not mutually totschlugen, because the threat of Feldheimerin
woman in his heart for a certainty witch was: "Well, yes you will
see what your heritage a deer guilders worth "- was he still in his
mind.

One day, as he in the vicinity of his castle, chased, he fell two mountains
in the eye, which because of its shape like castles created seemed,
and immediately He also decided where to build. He built the one on
the castle hill Schalk, which he referred to the smaller of the twins
so named because all of this because of bad jokes from him long ago the
name _ "small Schalk" _ who had received the other castle , which he
built, he initially wanted Hirsch Guldenberg call to the witch to
scorn, because they are not his legacy once a deer guilder worth
attention, but he had it in the simpler Hirschberg move, and so are
the two mountains still to this day , and who the Alb already, it
can be shown.

The bad weather of Zollern had initially in mind, his eldest son Zollern,
the _kleinen Schalk_ Schalk Berg and the other in Hirschberg
testament to bequeath, but his wife, rather than being rested until
he it changed.

"The stupid Kuno," so called this the poor boy because he is not as
wild as was omitted, and their sons, "the stupid anyway Kuno is rich
enough by what he inherited from his mother, and he is still the beautiful
rich Zollern have?

And my sons will not get a castle than any to which nothing belongs as
forest?

"In vain it was the count before that Kuno cheaper as the birthright
law should not steal, they wept and bickered until the bad weather
that no one else is said, of love and peace sake nachgab Testament in
the small mountain Schalk Schalk, Wolf, the larger twin brother,
Zollern and Kuno Hirschberg with the town of Balingen devoted.

Soon after he has had so, he fell even in a severe illness. To the doctor
who told him that he must die, he said: "I know", and the castle
Kaplan, who urged him to become a pious end preparation, he replied:
"stupid stuff", and he cursed and raced continued and died as he had
lived rough and be a great sinner.

But his corpse was not buried, so the woman was already with the
Countess herbei Testament, Kuno said, her stepson, mockingly, he now
wants to show his erudition and even after reading what is in the
Testament, namely that he Zollern nothing more to do, and rejoiced
with her sons on the beautiful property and the two locks, which
he, the firstborn, was snatched.

Kuno added without murmur at the will of the deceased, but with tears,
he took leave of the castle, where he was born, where his good
mother was buried and where the good castle Kaplan and his only
close to old friend, Mrs.

Feldheimerin lived.

Hirschberg The castle was a beautiful, stately buildings, but it
was him but too lonely and desolate, and he soon would be sick
before longing for Hohenzollernstraße become.

The Countess and the twin brothers who are now eighteen years
old, sat one evening on the Söller the Schloßberg and looked down, saw
that they have a handsome knight, the horse heraufritt and a magnificent
sedan chair, borne by two mules, and several servants were followed.
They told long back and forth, who probably wants to be, because
finally cried the little Schalk: "Oh, this is none other than our
brother Mr.

Hirschberg." "The stupid Kuno?" said the astonished Mrs. Countess. "Ah,
will do us the honor, invite us to himself, and the beautiful sedan
chair, he brought for me to fetch me after Hirschberg, no, so much
goodness and life, I would have my master's son, the stupid Kuno, not
trust; a courtesy to others is worth, let us come down to the castle
gate, to receive him, also makes friendly faces, maybe it gives us
something Hirschberg, a horse and you imagine a Harnisch, and the jewelry
of his mother, I would have gladly had long "." Gift I like nothing
about the stupid Kuno, "replied Wolf," and a good face mach 'I
gave him not.

But our blessed Lord my father, he could soon follow, then we would
Hirschberg and inherit everything, and you, mother, we wanted the
jewelry to desist cheap price. "" So, you Range!

" strove to parent, "should I buy the jewelry you? Is this the thanks
that I have had Zollern gives? Small Schalk, not true, I should have the
jewelry for free?" "In vain is death, mother!"

replied the son, laughing, "and if it is true that the jewelry is worth
as much as some of the castle, so we will probably not be the gates to
him you around the neck to hang.

Kuno Once the eye closes, we go down, divide , and on my part, I sell
jewelry.

Gebt then you more than the Jew, mother, so you should have it. "They
were in this conversation to come to the castle gate, and with
some difficulty forced the woman Countess, their Grimm about the
jewelry and to enter, because just rode Graf Kuno on the drawbridge.

When his step-mother and his brothers view was, he took his horse,
dismounted, and greeted them politely. Because even though it pleased
him much suffering, but he thought that his brethren, and that this
evil woman had loved his father. "Oh, that's nice that the Lord's son
visited us," said the countess with a sweet woman Huldreich voice and
smile. "How is because Hirschberg? Can you settle there? And even a
sedan chair has been purchased? Oh, and how magnificent, it should not
be ashamed of the Empress, now it is probably also the housewife no longer
missing, that they umherreist is in the country. "" Have not yet thought
of, Madam Mother, "Kuno replied," I so want another company to entertain
at home and am so hierhergereist with the sedan chair. "" Oh, you are
indeed full of kindness and concerned, "he broke the lady who bowed them
and smiled." Because he's good but no longer continue on horseback, "said
Kuno quite calmly," Father Joseph namely, the palace chaplain. I
want him to take me he is my old teacher, and we have done so
when I left Zollern. Will also at the bottom of the mountain, the old
woman Feldheimerin go. Dear God! She is now the hills and I once saved
the life, when I first ride Blessed with my father, so have room enough
in Hirschberg, and they should die. " He said it and went through the
courtyard to the castle chaplain Father to fetch. Junker But the wolf
bit before Grimm lips together, the woman was Countess yellow
trouble before, and the _ "small Schalk" _ laughed out loud. "What
will you give me for my horse, which I presented to him by martial?" he
said. "Brother Wolf, give me your armor, which he thee given for this.
Ha! Ha! Ha! The Father and the old witch, he wants to eat? This is a
nice couple, because he can learn the Greek vormittags Kaplan and Afternoon
classes in witches take in women Feldheimerin. Ah, but what makes the
stupid Kuno for pranks. "" He is a very mean man! " Countess replied
the woman, "and you should not laugh, small Schalk, which is a shame
for the whole family, and you must be so ashamed in front of the whole
region, if it is, the Count of Zollern, the old witch, the Feldheimerin,
picked up in a luxurious sedan and mules there and have them live with
him. That's what he said of his mother, who was always so common with
the sick and poor rabble, oh, his father would turn in the coffin,
he knew it. "" Yes, "continued the little Schalk added," the father
would even say in the Crypt: "white already, nonsense". "" Truly!

As he comes with the old man and not ashamed of it himself under the arm
to go, "cried the wife Countess with horror," comes, I will no longer
deal with him. "They are distant, and Kuno, led his old teacher, to the
bridge and helped him into the sedan chair, but at the bottom of
a mountain, he before the hut of the woman Feldheimerin and found
it already done, with a bundle full of glass and pots and Tränklein
and other devices besides their Buchsbaumstöcklein, enter.

It was not so incidentally, as the Countess of Zollern in their wicked
spirit had to foresee it. Throughout the region you are not surprised
about Knight Kuno. They found it beautiful and laudable that the last
days of the old woman wanted to brighten Feldheimerin, you praised him
as a pious Lord, because he is the old Father Joseph in his castle had
been taken. The single, which he and Gram were schmähten to him,
were his brothers and the countess, but only to their own loss, because
it was generally a nuisance to so unnatural brothers, and the retaliation
was the legend that she and her mother ill Hader resistant and live
among themselves and are doing everything possible zuleide. Count Kuno
von Hirschberg-Zollern made several attempts, with his brothers
to reconcile, because it was unbearable to him, when they often
rode past his celebrations, but never appeals if he is in forest
and field meet, and welcomed him colder than a stranger land.

But his attempts were mostly unsuccessful, and he was also mocked by
them.

One day he was still a means, as perhaps he could win their hearts,
because he knew they were stingy and greedy. There was a pond between the
three castles, almost in the middle, however, that he still belonged Kunos
area. In this pond were located but the best pike and carp throughout
the neighborhood, and it was for the brothers who enjoy fishing ,
a non-negligible annoyances that her father had forgotten the pond
on their part to write.

They were too proud, without prior knowledge of her brother there to
fish, and yet she liked him no good word, that he would like to enable
them. Now he knew his brothers that they have the pond at heart, he
invited them so one day, then meet with him.

It was a beautiful spring morning, as nearly the same moment, the
three brothers of the three castles there together. " Oh, look there!

" cried the little rogue, "that meets properly, I'm hit with seven clock
by Schalk weggeritten Mountain." "Me too - and I" - the brothers responded
by Hirschberg and Zollern. "Now that the pond should be here just lie
in the middle, "the Small continued.

"It is a beautiful water." "Yes, and precisely why I decided you here.
I know you are both great friends of the fish, and whether I will also
sometimes like to eject the Angel, but it has enough of the ponds
for fish three locks, and on its banks is room enough for three,
even if we all at once they would go fishing. So I will from now on, that
this water is commonplace for us, and each of you should have equal
rights to like me. "" Oh, brother of the Lord is mighty gracious
mind, "said the little rogue with derisive smile," really gives us the
morning six water and a few hundred fish! Nu are and what we do have
to give, because nothing is death! "" Freely ye have him, "said Kuno.
"Oh, I wish you only occasionally seen at this pond and talk Are we sons
of a father." "No!"

Schalk said of the mountain, "which would not have, because there
is nothing simple, when in the company of fish, it always chased the
other fish. Do we want to represent days, however, such as Monday
and Thursday you, Kuno, Tuesday and Friday Wolf , Wednesday and
Saturday, I - it is quite right to me. "" I did not even then,
"cried the dark wolf.

"Gift I will have nothing and I want to share with nobody, you're right,
Kuno that you offer us the pond, because we actually have all three equal
share of it, but let us throw a question of who it should have in
the future, will I am happier than you, so you can always ask me
whether their fish dürfet. "" I never Würfl "said Kuno, sad about
the stubbornness of his brothers."

Yes, certainly, "laughed the little rogue," he is even pious and
evil, the Lord's brother, and keeps the dice game for a mortal sin, but
I will suggest you what else, what the frömmste Klausner should not be
ashamed. We want to fishing lines and hooks pick, and who this morning
until the bell Zollern twelve clock suggests that most fish fishing,
the pond should have its own. "" I'm actually a gate, "said Kuno,"
to the still struggling with what my rights as an heir to listen,
but so you see, informed me that it seriously was the sharing, I will
get my fishing equipment. "They rode home, each according to his
castle. The twins sent in all haste from their minions, would repeal all
the old stones to worms for bait for the fish in the pond to find
Kuno but Angel took his usual stuff and the food, the woman he once
taught Feldheimerin prepare, and was the first , which again appeared
on the square.

He had, as the two twins came to the best and most convenient places
to select and then threw himself from a fishing. It was as if the
fish in it the Lord of the pond were detected.

Whole trains of carp and pike moved up and swarmed around his Angel,
the oldest and largest pushed away the little, every moment he
pulled out, and if the Angel threw back into the water, already
closed twenty or thirty mouths in order to the pointed hook anzubeißen.

It had not yet two hours, then lay the floor around him full of beautiful
fish. As he listened to fish and went to his brothers, to see what
kind of transactions they made. Der kleine Schalk had a small carp and
two miserable white fish, wolf three barbels and two small Gründl
Inge, and both looked dreary in the pond, for they were the huge
quantity, Kuno caught, even most of their places of note.

As to his brother Kuno drew wolf, jumped on this halbwütend, tore the
fishing line, broke the cane into pieces and threw them into the
pond.

"I wanted, it would be one thousand hooks, which I hineinwerfe, instead
of one, and each would have one of these creatures fidget," he
cried, "but with the right things are never that there is a magic
and sorcery game.

How should thou, stupid Kuno, catch more fish in one hour than I do in a
year? "" Yes, yes, now I remember, "the small Schalk continued," in the
woman Feldheimerin, the Witch simple, he has the Fishing learned gates
and we were with him to fish, but soon he will be Warlock. "" You
bad man!

" unmutes Kuno said. "This morning I have had sufficient time, your
greed, your rudeness and crudity your file.

Go now and never come back here and believe me, it would be better
for your souls, if you only half as good and pious wäret than those
women, its a witch scheltet. "" No, a real witch, she is not! " Schalk
said, laughing mockingly. "Such women can fortunetelling, but Feldheimerin
woman is less of a fortune teller, as a goose, a swan can be but
it's father said from his legacy will be a good part of a deer
guldens can buy, which means that it will completely verlumpen, but
his death has made everything belongs to him, so far one of the
pinnacle of Zollern can see!

Go, go, Feldheimerin woman is nothing but a silly old woman, and you -
the stupid Kuno.

"With these words removed The Small hurry, because he feared the
strong arm of his brother, Wolf, and followed him, he curses hersagte
all that he learned from his father had.

In deepest soul grieves, Kuno went home, because he now saw clearly
that his brothers with him never wanted to be tolerated. He also
took her harsh words to heart so much that he had the other day was very
ill, and only the consolation of celebrating Father Joseph and the
strong Tränklein Women Feldheimerin saved him from death .

But when his brothers learned that her brother Kuno difficult
daniederliegen held them a merry banquet, and in Weinmut said they
should, if the stupid Kuno die, so should the one who first experienced
it, all guns solve it to the other indicate first and gunners, to
be the best barrels of wine from the cellar Kunos may anticipate.

                  
                   said William, her chin on her hand, as
she leaned forward among the wine-glasses. Her cheeks had fallen in,
and the scar on her forehead was more prominent than ever, but the
well-turned neck rose roundly as a column from the ruffle of the blouse
which was the accepted evening-dress in camp.

"It was awfully absurd at times," said Scott. "You see, I didn't know
much about milking or babies. They'll chaff my head off, if the tale
goes up North."

"Let 'em," said William, haughtily. "We've all done coolie-work since we
came. I know Jack has." This was to Hawkins's address, and the big man
smiled blandly.

"Your brother's a highly efficient officer, William," said he, "and I've
done him the honour of treating him as he deserves. Remember, I write
the confidential reports."

"Then you must say that William's worth her weight in gold," said Mrs.
Jim. "I don't know what we should have done without her. She has been
everything to us." She dropped her hand upon William's, which was rough
with much handling of reins, and William patted it softly. Jim beamed
on the company. Things were going well with his world. Three of his more
grossly incompetent men had died, and their places had been filled by
their betters. Every day brought the Rains nearer. They had put out the
famine in five of the Eight Districts, and, after all, the death-rate
had not been too heavy--things considered. He looked Scott over
carefully, as an ogre looks over a man, and rejoiced in his thews and
iron-hard condition.

"He's just the least bit in the world tucked up," said Jim to himself,
"but he can do two men's work yet." Then he was aware that Mrs. Jim was
telegraphing to him, and according to the domestic code the message ran:
"A clear case. Look at them!"

He looked and listened. All that William was saying was: "What can
you expect of a country where they call a bhistee [a water-carrier] a
tunni-cutch?" and all that Scott answered was: "I shall be glad to get
back to the Club. Save me a dance at the Christmas Ball, won't you?"

"It's a far cry from here to the Lawrence Hall," said Jim. "Better turn
in early, Scott. It's paddy-carts to-morrow; you'll begin loading at
five."

"Aren't you going to give Mr. Scott a single day's rest?"

"'Wish I could, Lizzie, but I'm afraid I can't. As long as he can stand
up we must use him."

"Well, I've had one Europe evening, at least. By Jove, I'd nearly
forgotten! What do I do about those babies of mine?"

"Leave them here," said William--"we are in charge of that--and as many
goats as you can spare. I must learn how to milk now."

"If you care to get up early enough to-morrow I'll show you. I have to
milk, you see. Half of 'em have beads and things round their necks. You
must be careful not to take 'em off; in case the mothers turn up."

"You forget I've had some experience here."

"I hope to goodness you won't overdo." Scott's voice was unguarded.

"I'll take care of her," said Mrs. Jim, telegraphing hundred-word
messages as she carried William off; while Jim gave Scott his orders for
the coming campaign. It was very late--nearly nine o'clock.

"Jim, you're a brute," said his wife, that night; and the Head of the
Famine chuckled.

"Not a bit of it, dear. I remember doing the first Jandiala Settlement
for the sake of a girl in a crinoline, and she was slender, Lizzie. I've
never done as good a piece of work since. He'll work like a demon."

"But you might have given him one day."

"And let things come to a head now? No, dear; it's their happiest time."

"I don't believe either of the darlings know what's the matter with
them. Isn't it beautiful? Isn't it lovely?"

"Getting up at three to learn to milk, bless her heart! Oh, ye Gods, why
must we grow old and fat?"

"She's a darling. She has done more work under me--"

"Under you? The day after she came she was in charge and you were her
subordinate. You've stayed there ever since; she manages you almost as
well as you manage me."

"She doesn't, and that's why I love her. She's as direct as a man--as
her brother."

"Her brother's weaker than she is. He's always to me for orders; but
he's honest, and a glutton for work. I confess I'm rather fond of
William, and if I had a daughter--"

The talk ended. Far away in the Derajat was a child's grave more than
twenty years old, and neither Jim nor his wife spoke of it any more.

"All the same, you're responsible," Jim added, a moment's silence.

"Bless 'em!" said Mrs. Jim, sleepily.

Before the stars paled, Scott, who slept in an empty cart, waked and
went about his work in silence; it seemed at that hour unkind to rouse
Faiz Ullah and the interpreter. His head being close to the ground,
he did not hear William till she stood over him in the dingy old
riding-habit, her eyes still heavy with sleep, a cup of tea and a piece
of toast in her hands. There was a baby on the ground, squirming on a
piece of blanket, and a six-year-old child peered over Scott's shoulder.

"Hai, you little rip," said Scott, "how the deuce do you expect to get
your rations if you aren't quiet?"

A cool white hand steadied the brat, who forthwith choked as the milk
gurgled into his mouth.

"'Mornin'," said the milker. "You've no notion how these little fellows
can wriggle."

"Oh, yes, I have." She whispered, because the world was asleep. "Only I
feed them with a spoon or a rag. Yours are fatter than mine. And you've
been doing this day after day?" The voice was almost lost.

"Yes; it was absurd. Now you try," he said, giving place to the girl.
"Look out! A goat's not a cow."

The goat protested against the amateur, and there was a scuffle, in
which Scott snatched up the baby. Then it was all to do over again, and
William laughed softly and merrily. She managed, however, to feed two
babies, and a third.

"Don't the little beggars take it well?" said Scott. "I trained 'em."

They were very busy and interested, when lo! it was broad daylight, and
before they knew, the camp was awake, and they kneeled among the goats,
surprised by the day, both flushed to the temples. Yet all the round
world rolling up out of the darkness might have heard and seen all that
had passed between them.

"Oh," said William, unsteadily, snatching up the tea and toast, "I had
this made for you. It's stone-cold now. I thought you mightn't have
anything ready so early. 'Better not drink it. It's--it's stone-cold."

"That's awfully kind of you. It's just right. It's awfully good of you,
really. I'll leave my kids and goats with you and Mrs. Jim, and, of
course, any one in camp can show you about the milking."

"Of course," said William; and she grew pinker and pinker and statelier
and more stately, as she strode back to her tent, fanning herself with
the saucer.

There were shrill lamentations through the camp when the elder children
saw their nurse move off without them. Faiz Ullah unbent so far as to
jest with the policemen, and Scott turned purple with shame because
Hawkins, already in the saddle, roared.

A child escaped from the care of Mrs. Jim, and, running like a rabbit,
clung to Scott's boot, William pursuing with long, easy strides.

"I will not go--I will not go!" shrieked the child, twining his feet
round Scott's ankle. "They will kill me here. I do not know these
people."

"I say," said Scott, in broken Tamil, "I say, she will do you no harm.
Go with her and be well fed."

"Come!" said William, panting, with a wrathful glance at Scott, who
stood helpless and, as it were, hamstrung.

"Go back," said Scott quickly to William. "I'll send the little chap over
in a minute."

The tone of authority had its effect, but in a way Scott did not exactly
intend. The boy loosened his grasp, and said with gravity: "I did not
know the woman was thine. I will go." Then he cried to his companions,
a mob of three-, four-, and five-year-olds waiting on the success of his
venture ere they stampeded: "Go back and eat. It is our man's woman. She
will obey his orders."

Jim collapsed where he sat; Faiz Ullah and the two policemen grinned;
and Scott's orders to the cartmen flew like hail.

"That is the custom of the Sahibs when truth is told in their presence,"
said Faiz Ullah. "The time comes that I must seek new service. Young
wives, especially such as speak our language and have knowledge of the
ways of the Police, make great trouble for honest butlers in the matter
of weekly accounts."

What William thought of it all she did not say, but when her brother,
ten days later, came to camp for orders, and heard of Scott's
performances, he said, laughing: "Well, that settles it. He'll be Bakri
Scott to the end of his days." (Bakri in the Northern vernacular, means
a goat.) "What a lark! I'd have given a month's pay to have seen him
nursing famine babies. I fed some with conjee [rice-water], but that was
all right."

"It's perfectly disgusting," said his sister, with blazing eyes. "A man
does something like--like that--and all you other men think of is to
give him an absurd nickname, and then you laugh and think it's funny."

"Ah," said Mrs. Jim, sympathetically.

"Well, you can't talk, William. You christened little Miss Demby the
Button-quail, last cold weather; you know you did. India's the land of
nicknames."

"That's different," William replied. "She was only a girl, and she
hadn't done anything except walk like a quail, and she does. But it
isn't fair to make fun of a man."

"Scott won't care," said Martyn. "You can't get a rise out of old
Scotty. I've been trying for eight years, and you've only known him for
three. How does he look?"

"He looks very well," said William, and went away with a flushed cheek.
"Bakri Scott, indeed!" Then she laughed to herself, for she knew her
country. "But it will he Bakri all the same"; and she repeated it under
her breath several times slowly, whispering it into favour.

When he returned to his duties on the railway, Martyn spread the name
far and wide among his associates, so that Scott met it as he led his
paddy-carts to war. The natives believed it to be some English title of
honour, and the cart-drivers used it in all simplicity till Faiz Ullah,
who did not approve of foreign japes, broke their heads. There was very
little time for milking now, except at the big camps, where Jim had
extended Scott's idea and was feeding large flocks on the useless
northern grains. Sufficient paddy had come now into the Eight Districts
to hold the people safe, if it were only distributed quickly, and for
that purpose no one was better than the big Canal officer, who never
lost his temper, never gave an unnecessary order, and never questioned
an order given. Scott pressed on, saving his cattle, washing their
galled necks daily, so that no time should be lost on the road; reported
himself with his rice at the minor famine-sheds, unloaded, and went back
light by forced night-march to the next distributing centre, to find
Hawkins's unvarying telegram: "Do it again." And he did it again and
again, and yet again, while Jim Hawkins, fifty miles away, marked off
on a big map the tracks of his wheels gridironing the stricken lands.
Others did well--Hawkins reported at the end they all did well--but
Scott was the most excellent, for he kept good coined rupees by him,
settled for his own cart-repairs on the spot, and ran to meet all sorts
of unconsidered extras, trusting to be recouped later on. Theoretically,
the Government should have paid for every shoe and linchpin, for every
hand employed in the loading; but Government vouchers cash themselves
slowly, and intelligent and efficient clerks write at great length,
contesting unauthorised expenditures of eight annas. The man who wants
to make his work a success must draw on his own bank-account of money or
other things as he goes.

"I told you he'd work," said Jimmy to his wife, at the end of six weeks.
"He's been in sole charge of a couple of thousand men up north, on the
Mosuhl Canal, for a year; but he gives less trouble than young Martyn
with his ten constables; and I'm morally certain--only Government
doesn't recognise moral obligations--he's spent about half his pay to
grease his wheels. Look at this, Lizzie, for one week's work! Forty
miles in two days with twelve carts; two days' halt building a
famine-shed for young Rogers. (Rogers ought to have built it himself,
the idiot!) Then forty miles back again, loading six carts on the
way, and distributing all Sunday. Then in the evening he pitches in a
twenty-page Demi-Official to me, saying the people where he is might be
'advantageously employed on relief-work,' and suggesting that he put 'em
to work on some broken-down old reservoir he's discovered, so as to have
a good water-supply when the Rains break. 'Thinks he can cauk the dam in
a fortnight. Look at his marginal sketches--aren't they clear and good?
I knew he was pukka, but I didn't know he was as pukka as this."

"I must show these to William," said Mrs. Jim. "The child's wearing
herself out among the babies."

"Not more than you are, dear. Well, another two months ought to see us
out of the wood. I'm sorry it's not in my power to recommend you for a
V. C."

William sat late in her tent that night, reading through page after page
of the square handwriting, patting the sketches of proposed repairs to
the reservoir, and wrinkling her eyebrows over the columns of figures of
estimated water-supply. "And he finds time to do all this," she cried to
herself, "and--well, I also was present. I've saved one or two babies."

She dreamed for the twentieth time of the god in the golden dust,
and woke refreshed to feed loathsome black children, scores of them,
wastrels picked up by the wayside, their bones almost breaking their
skin, terrible and covered with sores.

Scott was not allowed to leave his cart-work, but his letter was duly
forwarded to the Government, and he had the consolation, not rare in
India, of knowing that another man was reaping where he had sown. That
also was discipline profitable to the soul.

"He's much too good to waste on canals," said Jimmy. "Any one can
oversee coolies. You needn't be angry, William; he can--but I need my
pearl among bullock-drivers, and I've transferred him to the Khanda
district, where he'll have it all to do over again. He should be
marching now.

"He's not a coolie," said William, furiously. "He ought to be doing his
regulation work."

"He's the best man in his service, and that's saying a good deal; but if
you must use razors to cut grindstones, why, I prefer the best cutlery."

"Isn't it almost time we saw him again?" said Mrs. Jim. "I'm sure the
poor boy hasn't had a respectable meal for a month. He probably sits on
a cart and eats sardines with his fingers."

"All in good time, dear. Duty before decency--wasn't it Mr. Chucks said
that?"

"No; it was Midshipman Easy," William laughed. "I sometimes wonder how
it will feel to dance or listen to a band again, or sit under a roof. I
can't believe I ever wore a ball-frock in my life."

"One minute," said Mrs. Jim, who was thinking. "If he goes to Khanda, he
passes within five miles of us. Of course he'll ride in."

"Oh, no, he won't," said William.

"How do you know, dear?"

"It will take him off his work. He won't have time."

"He'll make it," said Mrs. Jim, with a twinkle.

"It depends on his own judgment. There's absolutely no reason why he
shouldn't, if he thinks fit," said Jim.

"He won't see fit," William replied, without sorrow or emotion. "It
wouldn't be him if he did."

"One certainly gets to know people rather well in times like these,"
said Jim, drily; but William's face was serene as ever, and even as she
prophesied, Scott did not appear.

The Rains fell at last, late, but heavily; and the dry, gashed earth
was red mud, and servants killed snakes in the camp, where every one was
weather-bound for a fortnight--all except Hawkins, who took horse and
plashed about in the wet, rejoicing. Now the Government decreed that
seed-grain should be distributed to the people, as well as advances of
money for the purchase of new oxen; and the white men were doubly worked
for this new duty, while William skipped from brick to brick laid down
on the trampled mud, and dosed her charges with warming medicines that
made them rub their little round stomachs; and the milch goats throve
on the rank grass. There was never a word from Scott in the Khanda
district, away to the southeast, except the regular telegraphic report
to Hawkins. The rude country roads had disappeared; his drivers were
half mutinous; one of Martyn's loaned policemen had died of cholera; and
Scott was taking thirty grains of quinine a day to fight the fever
that comes with the rain: but those were things Scott did not consider
necessary to report. He was, as usual, working from a base of supplies
on a railway line, to cover a circle of fifteen miles radius, and since
full loads were impossible, he took quarter-loads, and toiled four times
as hard by consequence; for he did not choose to risk an epidemic which
might have grown uncontrollable by assembling villagers in thousands at
the relief-sheds. It was cheaper to take Government bullocks, work them
to death, and leave them to the crows in the wayside sloughs.

That was the time when eight years of clean living and hard condition
told, though a man's head were ringing like a bell from the cinchona,
and the earth swayed under his feet when he stood and under his bed when
he slept. If Hawkins had seen fit to make him a bullock-driver, that, he
thought, was entirely Hawkins's own affair. There were men in the North
who would know what he had done; men of thirty years' service in his
own department who would say that it was "not half bad"; and above,
immeasurably above, all men of all grades, there was William in the
thick of the fight, who would approve because she understood. He had so
trained his mind that it would hold fast to the mechanical routine of
the day, though his own voice sounded strange in his own ears, and his
hands, when he wrote, grew large as pillows or small as peas at the end
of his wrists. That steadfastness bore his body to the telegraph-office
at the railway-station, and dictated a telegram to Hawkins saying that
the Khanda district was, in his judgment, now safe, and he "waited
further orders."

The Madrassee telegraph-clerk did not approve of a large, gaunt man
falling over him in a dead faint, not so much because of the weight as
because of the names and blows that Faiz Ullah dealt him when he found
the body rolled under a bench. Then Faiz Ullah took blankets, quilts,
and coverlets where he found them, and lay down under them at his
master's side, and bound his arms with a tent-rope, and filled him with
a horrible stew of herbs, and set the policeman to fight him when he
wished to escape from the intolerable heat of his coverings, and shut
the door of the telegraph-office to keep out the curious for two nights
and one day; and when a light engine came down the line, and Hawkins
kicked in the door, Scott hailed him weakly but in a natural voice, and
Faiz Ullah stood back and took all the credit.

"For two nights, Heaven-born, he was pagal" said Faiz Ullah. "Look at my
nose, and consider the eye of the policeman. He beat us with his bound
hands; but we sat upon him, Heaven-born, and though his words were tez,
we sweated him. Heaven-born, never has been such a sweat! He is weaker
now than a child; but the fever has gone out of him, by the grace of
God. There remains only my nose and the eye of the constabeel. Sahib,
shall I ask for my dismissal because my Sahib has beaten me?" And Faiz
Ullah laid his long thin hand carefully on Scott's chest to be sure
that the fever was all gone, ere he went out to open tinned soups and
discourage such as laughed at his swelled nose.

"The district's all right," Scott whispered. "It doesn't make any
difference. You got my wire? I shall be fit in a week. 'Can't
understand how it happened. I shall be fit in a few days."

"You're coming into camp with us," said Hawkins.

"But look here--but--"

"It's all over except the shouting. We sha'n't need you Punjabis
any more. On my honour, we sha'n't. Martyn goes back in a few weeks;
Arbuthnot's returned already; Ellis and Clay are putting the last
touches to a new feeder-line the Government's built as relief-work.
Morten's dead--he was a Bengal man, though; you wouldn't know him. 'Pon
my word, you and Will--Miss Martyn--seem to have come through it as well
as anybody."

"Oh, how is she, by-the-way?" The voice went up and down as he spoke.

"Going strong when I left her. The Roman Catholic Missions are adopting
the unclaimed babies to turn them into little priests; the Basil Mission
is taking some, and the mothers are taking the rest. You should hear the
little beggars howl when they're sent away from William. She's pulled
down a bit, but so are we all. Now, when do you suppose you'll be able
to move?"

"I can't come into camp in this state. I won't," he replied pettishly.

"Well, you are rather a sight, but from what I gathered there it seemed
to me they'd be glad to see you under any conditions. I'll look over
your work here, if you like, for a couple of days, and you can pull
yourself together while Faiz Ullah feeds you up."

Scott could walk dizzily by the time Hawkins's inspection was ended,
and he flushed all over when Jim said of his work that it was "not
half bad," and volunteered, further, that he had considered Scott his
right-hand man through the famine, and would feel it his duty to say as
much officially.

So they came back by rail to the old camp; but there were no crowds
near it; the long fires in the trenches were dead and black, and the
famine-sheds were almost empty.

"You see!" said Jim. "There isn't much more to do. 'Better ride up and
see the wife. They've pitched a tent for you. Dinner's at seven. I've
some work here."

Riding at a foot-pace, Faiz Ullah by his stirrup, Scott came to William
in the brown-calico riding-habit, sitting at the dining-tent door, her
hands in her lap, white as ashes, thin and worn, with no lustre in her
hair. There did not seem to be any Mrs. Jim on the horizon, and all that
William could say was: "My word, how pulled down you look!"

"I've had a touch of fever. You don't look very well yourself."

"Oh, I'm fit enough. We've stamped it out. I suppose you know?"

Scott nodded. "We shall all be returned in a few weeks. Hawkins told
me."

"Before Christmas, Mrs. Jim says. Sha'n't you be glad to go back? I can
smell the wood-smoke already"; William sniffed. "We shall be in time
for all the Christmas doings. I don't suppose even the Punjab Government
would be base enough to transfer Jack till the new year?"

"It seems hundreds of years ago--the Punjab and all that--doesn't it?
Are you glad you came?"

"Now it's all over, yes. It has been ghastly here, though. You know we
had to sit still and do nothing, and Sir Jim was away so much."

"Do nothing! How did you get on with the milking?"

"I managed it somehow--after you taught me. 'Remember?"

Then the talk stopped with an almost audible jar. Still no Mrs. Jim.

"That reminds me, I owe you fifty rupees for the condensed-milk. I
thought perhaps you'd be coming here when you were transferred to the
Khanda district, and I could pay you then; but you didn't."

"I passed within five miles of the camp, but it was in the middle of a
march, you see, and the carts were breaking down every few minutes, and
I couldn't get 'em over the ground till ten o'clock that night. I wanted
to come awfully. You knew I did, didn't you?"

"I--believe--I--did," said William, facing him with level eyes. "She was
no longer white."

"Did you understand?"

"Why you didn't ride in? Of course I did."

"Why?"

"Because you couldn't, of course. I knew that."

"Did you care?"

"If you had come in--but I knew you wouldn't--but if you had, I should
have cared a great deal. You know I should."

"Thank God I didn't! Oh, but I wanted to! I couldn't trust myself to
ride in front of the carts, because I kept edging 'em over here, don't
you know?"

"I knew you wouldn't," said William, contentedly. "Here's your fifty."

Scott bent forward and kissed the hand that held the greasy notes. Its
fellow patted him awkwardly but very tenderly on the head.

"And you knew, too, didn't you?" said William, in a new voice.

"No, on my honour, I didn't. I hadn't the--the cheek to expect anything
of the kind, except... I say, were you out riding anywhere the day I
passed by to Khanda?"

William nodded, and smiled after the manner of an angel surprised in a
good deed.

"Then it was just a speck I saw of your habit in the--"

"Palm-grove on the Southern cart-road. I saw your helmet when you came
up from the mullah by the temple--just enough to be sure that you were
all right. D' you care?"

This time Scott did not kiss her hand, for they were in the dusk of the
dining-tent, and, because William's knees were trembling under her, she
had to sit down in the nearest chair, where she wept long and happily,
her head on her arms; and when Scott imagined that it would be well to
comfort her, she needing nothing of the kind, she ran to her own tent;
and Scott went out into the world, and smiled upon it largely and
idiotically. But when Faiz Ullah brought him a drink, he found it
necessary to support one hand with the other, or the good whisky and
soda would have been spilled abroad. There are fevers and fevers.

But it was worse--much worse--the strained, eye-shirking talk at dinner
till the servants had withdrawn, and worst of all when Mrs. Jim, who
had been on the edge of weeping from the soup down, kissed Scott and
William, and they drank one whole bottle of champagne, hot, because
there was no ice, and Scott and William sat outside the tent in the
starlight till Mrs. Jim drove them in for fear of more fever.

Apropos of these things and some others William said: "Being engaged is
abominable, because, you see, one has no official position. We must be
thankful we've lots of things to do."

"Things to do!" said Jim, when that was reported to him. "They're
neither of them any good any more. I can't get five hours' work a day
out of Scott. He's in the clouds half the time."

"Oh, but they're so beautiful to watch, Jimmy. It will break my heart
when they go. Can't you do anything for him?"

"I've given the Government the impression--at least, I hope I have--that
he personally conducted the entire famine. But all he wants is to get on
to the Luni Canal Works, and William's just as bad. Have you ever heard
'em talking of barrage and aprons and waste-water? It's their style of
spooning, I suppose."

Mrs. Jim smiled tenderly. "Ah, that's in the intervals--bless 'em."

And so Love ran about the camp unrebuked in broad daylight, while men
picked up the pieces and put them neatly away of the Famine in the Eight
Districts.

    *    *    *    *    *

Morning brought the penetrating chill of the Northern December, the
layers of wood-smoke, the dusty grey-blue of the tamarisks, the domes
of ruined tombs, and all the smell of the white Northern plains, as the
mail-train ran on to the mile-long Sutlej Bridge. William, wrapped in
a poshteen--a silk-embroidered sheepskin jacket trimmed with rough
astrakhan--looked out with moist eyes and nostrils that dilated
joyously. The South of pagodas and palm-trees, the overpopulated Hindu
South, was done with. Here was the land she knew and loved, and before
her lay the good life she understood, among folk of her own caste and
mind.

They were picking them up at almost every station now--men and women
coming in for the Christmas Week, with racquets, with bundles of
polo-sticks, with dear and bruised cricket-bats, with fox-terriers and
saddles. The greater part of them wore jackets like William's, for the
Northern cold is as little to be trifled with as the Northern heat. And
William was among them and of them, her hands deep in her pockets, her
collar turned up over her ears, stamping her feet on the platforms as
she walked up and down to get warm, visiting from carriage to carriage
and everywhere being congratulated. Scott was with the bachelors at the
far end of the train, where they chaffed him mercilessly about feeding
babies and milking goats; but from time to time he would stroll up to
William's window, and murmur: "Good enough, isn't it?" and William would
answer with sighs of pure delight: "Good enough, indeed." The large
open names of the home towns were good to listen to. Umballa, Ludianah,
Phillour, Jullundur, they rang like the coming marriage-bells in her
ears, and William felt deeply and truly sorry for all strangers and
outsiders--visitors, tourists, and those fresh-caught for the service of
the country.

It was a glorious return, and when the bachelors gave the Christmas
Ball, William was, unofficially, you might say, the chief and honoured
guest among the Stewards, who could make things very pleasant for their
friends. She and Scott danced nearly all the dances together, and sat
out the rest in the big dark gallery overlooking the superb teak floor,
where the uniforms blazed, and the spurs clinked, and the new frocks and
four hundred dancers went round and round till the draped flags on the
pillars flapped and bellied to the whirl of it.

About midnight half a dozen men who did not care for dancing came over
from the Club to play "Waits," and that was a surprise the Stewards had
arranged--before any one knew what had happened, the band stopped, and
hidden voices broke into "Good King Wenceslaus," and William in the
gallery hummed and beat time with her foot:

             "Mark my footsteps well, my page,
                Tread thou in them boldly.
              Thou shalt feel the winter's rage
                Freeze thy blood less coldly!"

"Oh, I hope they are going to give us another! Isn't it pretty, coming
out of the dark in that way? Look--look down. There's Mrs. Gregory
wiping her eyes!"

"It's like Home, rather," said Scott. "I remember--"

"Hsh! Listen!--dear." And it began again:

             "When shepherds watched their flocks by night--"

"A-h-h!" said William, drawing closer to Scott.

              "All seated on the ground,
               The Angel of the Lord came down,
               And glory shone around.
              'Fear not,' said he (for mighty dread
               Had seized their troubled mind);
              'Glad tidings of great joy I bring
               To you and all mankind.'"

This time it was William that wiped her eyes.


.007


A locomotive is, next to a marine engine, the most sensitive thing man
ever made; and No. .007, besides being sensitive, was new. The red paint
was hardly dry on his spotless bumper-bar, his headlight shone like
a fireman's helmet, and his cab might have been a hard-wood-finish
parlour. They had run him into the round-house after his trial--he
had said good-bye to his best friend in the shops, the overhead
travelling-crane--the big world was just outside; and the other locos
were taking stock of him. He looked at the semicircle of bold, unwinking
headlights, heard the low purr and mutter of the steam mounting in
the gauges--scornful hisses of contempt as a slack valve lifted a
little--and would have given a month's oil for leave to crawl through
his own driving-wheels into the brick ash-pit beneath him. .007 was an
eight-wheeled "American" loco, slightly different from others of his
type, and as he stood he was worth ten thousand dollars on the Company's
books. But if you had bought him at his own valuation, after half an
hour's waiting in the darkish, echoing round-house, you would have
saved exactly nine thousand nine hundred and ninety-nine dollars and
ninety-eight cents.

A heavy Mogul freight, with a short cow-catcher and a fire-box that came
down within three inches of the rail, began the impolite game, speaking
to a Pittsburgh Consolidation, who was visiting.

"Where did this thing blow in from?" he asked, with a dreamy puff of
light steam.

"it's all I can do to keep track of our makes," was the answer, "without
lookin' after your back-numbers. As viewed the glass are men, the watchmaker,
even the musicians on Sunday evening!

And when Peter Munk, clean washed and cleaned, in the father Ehrenwams
with silver buttons and red stockings with brand new appears, and
if a hergeht behind me and think, who is arguably the slender lad?
and praises for the stockings and my stately course - see if he
passes and looks around, he says, certainly, 'Oh, it's just the
Kohlenmunk Peter.

"Also, the seam on the other side were a subject of his envy. If these
Waldriesen.herüberkamen with handsome clothes, and buttons, buckles and
chains a half hundredweight silver contributed to the body when
they ausgespreizten legs and make faces watched the dance, Dutch
and cursing as the noblest of long Mynheers from Cologne pipe
smoking, as he emerged as the complete, picture of a happy person
before such a seam.

And if those lucky then went into the pockets, all the great hands full
thalers herauslangten and Sechsbätzner roller, five guilders out,
ten ago, so wanted to pass him the meaning, and he crept after his
dreary hut, because of some holiday evening, he had one or the other
of these "wooden men" more away, when the poor father Munk earned
in one year.

There were three of these excellent men, of which he did not know what he
should most admire.

One was a thick, tall man with red face and was considered the richest
man in the round. It was called him the thick Ezekiel. He traveled
twice every year with lumber to Amsterdam and had happiness, there's
always so much more expensive than others to sell it when the rest
went home on foot, was stately herauffahren.

The other was the longest and leanest man in the entire forest, we called
him the long Schlurker, and envied those Munk for his exceptional
bravery, he contradicted the most respected people needed, so even
if you pushed in the inn that was bigger than four of the thickest,
because it was based either both elbows on the table and pulled one
of his long legs to be on the bench and yet none dared to contradict
him, because he had a lot of money inhumane.

The third was a fine young man who danced the best far and wide and,
therefore, the name had _Tanzbodenkönig_.

He was a poor man and had been in a timber as Mr. Knecht served, because
he was at once very rich, which said that he was under an old fir
tree a pot full of money found, the others claimed that he was
near Bingen on the Rhine with the holly rod, whereby the seams
sometimes after the fish bite, a Pack heraufgefischt with gold
pieces, and the Pack is one of the great Nibelungenhort who is
buried there, in short, he was at once rich and was designed by
young and old viewed as a prince.

These three men thought Kohlenmunk Peter often when he einsam sat in
the pine forest. Although all three had a major error that they made the
people hated it, this was their inhuman greed, callousness against
their debtors, and the poor, because the Black Völklein are a good-natured,
but you know how to do it with such things go, they were hated
because of their greed, so they stood for their money but in
reputation, because who could dispose thalers how they, as if the
money from the fir shook?

"So it is not anymore," said Peter one day painfully saddened to itself
because the day before had been holiday and all the people in the
tavern, "if I did not soon come to the green branch, so I do anything,
but only as wär'ich viewed as rich and thick Ezekiel, or as bold
and as enormous as the long Schlurker or so and could be the famous
musicians thalers instead cruiser zuwerfen as the _Tanzbodenkönig_!

Where only the boy has the money come from? "Allerlei means he went
through, how you can earn money, but none wanted to like him, he finally
fell, the tales of people that before the old times by the Dutch-and
NEchel the glass man had become rich. As long as' his father still
lived, were often other poor people to visit, and there were often
long and wide range of people talking, and how they become rich, now often
played as the glass man a role, yes, nachsann if he is right, he
could almost still the Versleins remember which one at Tannenbühl
in the middle of the forest had to speak, when it should appear.

It began: "Treasure Houses in the green pine forest, now much one
hundred years old, you heard All land where pine trees stand -
"But he liked his memory effort, as he wanted, then he could no
longer judged verse.

He often thought, if he is not this or that old man should ask how
the little hot, but always gave him a certain shyness, his thoughts
reveal that he also concluded that it is necessary, the legend of
the glass man not well known and the award must be few people know,
because there were not many rich people in the woods, and - why did
not because his father and the other poor people trying their luck?

He once brought his mother to the man to speak, and they told him what
he already knew, just knew even the first line of the verdict and told
him finally, just people who are on a Sunday eleven to two clock born
had demonstrated the spirit of Chen. He himself would probably fit if
he only knew the little, since he was twelve noon on Sundays clock was
born. As this is the Kohlenmunk Peter heard that, he was with joy and
desire, to undertake this adventure, almost beside himself. It seemed
to him well, a little part of knowing and on Sunday to be born,
and glass man had to show him.

When he, therefore, one day had sold his coals, he lit no new reactor,
but withdrew his father and new red Staatswams stockings to put
on the Sonntagshut, took his five foot high black thorn stick in
his hand and took farewell of the mother: "I have over the office
in the city, because we will soon have to play who is a soldier,
and since I want the Amtmann only once einschärfen that you're a
widow and I am your only son. " The mother praised his decision,
but he went on after the Tannenbühl.

The Tannenbühl lies at the highest level of the Black Forest, and
two hours in the vicinity at the time was not a village, not even
a hut, for the superstitious people believed that it was then
uncertain.

It also suggested, so high and grand fir trees stood there, reluctant
to wood in that area, because often the Holzhau where they worked, the
ax from the stalk and jumped in the foot there, or the trees had fallen
quickly and had the Men with umgerissen and damaged or even killed,
even if you had the most beautiful trees of firewood from there
only to do, because the Floßherren were never a tribe from the
Tannenbühl among a raft, because the legend was that man and wood
crash when a fir tree with Buhler in the water was.

Therefore it was that in Tannenbühl the trees so thick and so high was
that during the day was almost night, and Peter Munk was there it
felt very scary, because he heard no voice, no kick than his, no
ax; even the birds seemed dense fir this night should be avoided.

Kohlenmunk Peter was now the highest point reached Tannenbühls and stood
in front of a pine of immense extent, to a Dutch ship Lord on the
spot several hundred guilders had been.

Here, "thought he," is probably the treasure house, "drew his great
Sonntagshut, before the tree made a deep bow, räusperte himself
and spoke with trembling voice:" Wishes blissful evening, Mr.

Glass Man. " But there was no answer, and everything around was so quiet
as before.

"Maybe I have but the Verslein speak," he thought, and murmured:
"Treasure Houses in the green pine forest, now much one hundred
years old, you heard all of the country, where fir stand -" By these
words he spoke, he saw to his great Schrekken a very small, weird
shape behind the thick fir hervorschauen it was him, he had seen
the glass man, how to describe the black Wämschen, the red Strümpfchen
that Hütchen, everything was so, even the pale, but fine Chen and
wise face, what you told them he believed to have seen.

But oh, so fast it had hervorgeschaut, the glass man, as soon it
was gone again!

"Mr.

Glass Man", after some hesitation said Peter Munk, "are so kind and
do not fool me. - Mr. Glass man, if your opinion, I have not seen
you so very täuschet you, I probably saw you behind the hervorgucken
tree. " Always no answer, but sometimes thought he was a quiet, hoarse
giggling behind the tree to hear. At last his impatience overcame the
fear of him until now had held.

"Wait, you little boy," cried he, "I want you soon!", Jumped with a
set behind the pine, but there was no treasure houses in the green
pine forest, and only a small, elegant hunting squirrels in the tree.
Peter Munk, shook his head, he saw that, he incantation to a certain
extent, brought him and that perhaps only a rhyme about the little
lacking, so he could the glass hervorlocken man, but he thought
that he thought her, and found nothing. The squirrel was on the
lowest branches of fir and seemed to cheer him up or to mock. It is
clean, it rolled to the beautiful tail, it looked at him with intelligent
eyes, but finally he is afraid but almost, with this animal to be alone,
because the squirrels soon appeared a man to have a mind and a hat
to wear dreispitzigen soon It was just like another squirrel, and
had only their hind feet, red stockings and black shoes.

In short, it was a funny animal, yet dawned Peter Kohl, because he
believed that it was not the right things.

With quicker steps, as he had come, pulled Peter off. The darkness
of the pine forest, seemed always to be blacker, the Trees were always
tight, and he began to be gray, that he was trotting davonjagte, and only
when he was in the distance and heard dogs barking soon the smoke saw
a hut, he was calm again. But when he came closer and the costume
of the people saw in the hut, he found that he is out of fear just the
opposite direction and made of glass instead of the people on the
seam had come.

The people who lived in the hut, were woodcutters, an old man, his son,
the landlord and some adult grandchildren.

They took Kohlenmunk-Peter, who is a bat the night, well, without
his name and place of residence to ask gave him to drink cider,
and the evening was a great Auerhahn up.

After dinner sat the housewife and her daughters with their Kunkeln to
the big Lichtspan, the boy with the finest pine resin maintained, the
grandfather, the guest and the landlord smoked and watched the
women too, but the boys were busy, spoons and forks from wood chips.

Outside in the woods and howled the storm raced into the pines, we heard
here and there very violent blows, and it often seemed as if whole
trees were kinked and zusammenkrachten.

The fearless boys also wanted to run into the forest and this terribly
beautiful spectacle to watch, but her grandfather held her with harsh
words and look back. "I will never guess that he now goes out the
door," he called them, "with God, who never comes back, because
the Dutchman - Michel skin tonight is a new G'stair (Floßgelenke)
in the forest.

"The kids were amazed at him, and liked by the Dutch-Michel have
already heard, but they now asked the Ehni once quite nicely from that
to tell. Peter Munk, of the Dutch-Michel on the other side of the forest
only had to speak indistinctly heard, with an agreed and asked the
elderly, who and where he was. "He is the Lord of this woods,
and after the close that you in your old age have not yet experienced,
will have on your side or the Tannenbühl probably even more at home.

The Dutchman - Michelangelo, but I will tell you, what I know,
and how the legend of him. about a hundred years ago, then told my Ehni
least, was far and no more honest people on earth than the Black. Now,
since so much money in the country, the people dishonest and bad.

The young lads to dance and howl and curse on Sunday that it is a
terror, but then it was different, and if he now hereinschaute to the
window there, so say 'I's and've often said, the Dutch - Michel is to
blame for all this corruption. So there was a hundred years ago, and a
rich wood drüber gentleman who had many servants, he was far down into
the Rhine, and his business was blessed because he was a pious man comes
one evening a man at his door, like he had never seen. His clothes were
like those of the Black boys, but he was a good head higher than
all, and one had never believed that such a giant can give. This is
asking for work in which Mr. Wood and Mr.

Wood, that was him, that he is strong and capable of large loads that he
expects his salary, and they are proposing. The Michelangelo was a worker,
same as Mr Wood had not yet. When he was hitting tree for three, six,
and if one end dragged, he wore the other alone. When he was but half
a year of wood beaten, he appeared one day before his Lord and coveted
by him: "I have now here long enough wood chopped, and so möcht 'I also
see where my trunks, and what about' it, if your me too 'nmal on the
raft ließet? "Mr Wood replied:" I want you out of the way to Michel, if
you want a little more in the world, namely the felling of timber
do I need strong people like you are on the raft, but it depends
on skill, but it is for now.

"And so it was, the raft, with which he should go off,, eight Glaich
(limbs), and were the last of the greatest bar room. But what happened?
On the evening before the long-Michel brings eight bars into the
water, so thick and long as you do not ever saw, and all he wore
so lightly on the shoulder like a Flözerstange, so that all horrified.

Where they are hewn, white still no-one. Wood The Lord laughed the
heart, as he saw it, because he calculated that this cost could bar; but
Michel said: "So, those are for me to drive, on the small chips then
I can not continue coming. " His Lord he wanted to thank a few Flözerstiefel
gift, but he threw them on the side and brought out a pair, as no other
had, my grandfather has assured that they have hundred pounds weighed
and had identified five feet long. The raft rode , and Michel had earlier
Holzhauer in astonishment, then amazed the seams now, because
instead of the raft, how to use because of the enormous beams
believed was slower on the river went, flew it once they came into the
Neckar, like an arrow;, the Neckar and had a turn otherwise the seams
had trouble, the raft in the middle to hold, not on gravel or sand to
come, so now Michel all jumped into the water, advancing with a train
left the raft or right, so that there is no danger vorüberglitt,
and then a straight body, so he ran over the first G'stair (joint)
that had all their rods install, Weber put his enormous tree in the
gravel, and with a pressure flew the raft so that the land and trees
and villages seemed vorbeizujagen. So they were in half the time it
otherwise needed to Cologne on the Rhine has come, where otherwise they
had sold their cargo, but Michel said: "You are right to me Merchants
and understand your benefits! Meinet ye, Kölner need all of this wood,
which comes from the Black, for himself? No to half the value they buy
it from you and negotiate it expensive to Holland.

Let us give the little bar here sale and with the great go to Holland,
what we have to solve the usual price, is our own profit. "So said the
malicious Michel, and the others were satisfied with the one, because
she likes to Holland would be withdrawn, it can be seen , the other
for the money. Only one was honest and warned them that the good of
their Lord of the danger or suspend him for the higher price to cheat,
but they are not listened to him and forgot his words, but the
Dutchman Michel forgot them. They were also the wood down the Rhine,
and Michelangelo directed the raft and brought them quickly to
Rotterdam. It gave them four of the previous price, and especially
the tremendous bar of Michelangelo were heavy with money paid. When
the Black saw so much money, they knew not from joy to take.

Michel announced that the part of Mr. Wood, the three other men. And
now they sat with sailors and other bad rabble in the Tavern, and
playful verschlemmten their money, but the good man, they discouraged,
sold the Dutchman Michel soul to a seller, and it has nothing more
heard of him.

From there, the boy was in the Black Paradise Holland Dutchman Michel
and their king, the timber men learned nothing from the long trade, and
came unvermerkt money, curses, bad morals, drunkenness and games up
from Holland. The Dutchman Michel was as the story came out, nowhere
to be found, but dead, he is also not a hundred years, he pushes
his haunt in the forest, and one says that he's already helping
many had to be rich, but - at the expense of its poor soul , and
more, I will not say.

But this much is certain that he was now in such a storm in Nights
Tannenbühl where you should not knock over the most beautiful firs
aussucht, and my father has him a four shoe thick wrap look like a pipe.
With these he presented those who turn away from the rights to him
and go at midnight, they then G'stair into the water, and rowing
with them to Holland.

But if I were Lord and King in Holland, I could be with him Kartätschen
slam into the ground, because all vessels from the Dutch-Michel
even a bar have to go under.

Therefore is it that so many of you heard Shipwrecked, because otherwise
how could a beautiful, strong ship, as big as a church, perish on the
water? But so often Holländer-Michel in a storm in the Black Night
is a fir tree, one of his old jump from the joints of the vessel, the
water penetrates, and the ship is equipped with man and mouse is lost.
This is the legend of the Dutchman Michel, and it is true, everything
evil in the Black writes from him o! He can make rich, "continued the
old man mysteriously added," but I want nothing from him, I would
like at any price in the skin of the _dicken Ezechiel_ and the
long Schlurkers stuck; _Tanzbodenkönig_ also should have shown him!

"The storm was over the story of the old put the shy girl lit the
lamps, and went away, but the men appealed Peter Munk is a sack of leaves
as a pillow on the Ofenbank and wished him good night.

Kohlenmunk-Peter had never been so serious had dreams that night as
soon he believed the dark, giant Dutchman Michel-tear on the room
windows and rich, with its incredibly long arm a bag full of gold
pieces in, he shook with each other that it is bright and lovely
sound, soon he saw again the small, friendly man in a glass green
bottle tremendous umherreiten in the room, and he said the hoarse
laughter wiederzuhören as Tannenbühl then he growled back into the
left ear: "In Holland, there's gold!

Könnet's, if you want to pay low Gold, gold! "Then he listened again
to his right ear from the song treasure houses in the green pine forest,
and a soft voice whispered:" Dummer Peter Kohl, Peter Munk stupid,
can not a little rhyme on, and on Sunday're born twelve blow clock.

Rhymes, stupid Peter, rhymes, "he groans, he moaned in his sleep, he
toiled to create a rhyme to find, but because his life had not yet made,
was his effort in vain dream. When he was but with the first Frührot woke
up, came to him but his strange dream before he sat down with folded
arms behind the desk and thought about the Einflüsterungen after which
it still lay in the ear, "rhymes, stupid Kohlenmunk-Peter, rhymes," he
said to himself and tapped with a finger to his forehead, but it
would not rhyme forth.

When he was still so murky and sitting in front of you and look at the
rhyme is thought to, as were three boys in front of the house
passed into the forest, and sang in passage: "At the Mountains, I
did stand, And looked into the valley, Da hab 'ich seen To
allerletztenmal."

It went like a brilliant flash Peters by ear, and he hastily raffte
on, crashed out of the house because he thought , not to have heard,
sprang up after the three boys and hastily grabbed the singer and
the ungentle arm.

"Stop, friend," cried he, "what have you to stand as rhyming, I'm the
love and say what you sung "." What's challenging you, lad? "said the
Black." I can sing what I want, and let my arm go like, or - ""
No, thou shalt say, what thou hast sung, "cried Peter almost beside
himself, and grabbed him more firmly in the other two, but when she saw
it, did not hesitate long, but were rough with fists on the poor,
and Peter walkten derb him until he in pain the garb of the third
and had exhausted fell to its knees.

"Now you have your part," she said laughingly, "And remember, a
great guy that you people, as we are never vulnerable to an open
path." "Oh, I want it I surely remember! "replied Peter Kohl sighing,"
but then I did the beats, are so good and say clearly what those
sung!

"As they laughed again, and mocked him, but the song is sung, he said,
and laughing and singing they moved on. "Well, see," said the poor
Captured by he laboriously up, "is to see - now, glass, man, we want to
once again speak a word together." He went into the hut, brought his hat
and long stick, and took leave of the inhabitants of the hut and
came after his return to Tannenbühl.

He walked slowly and sinnend his street because he had to devise a verse
yes, finally, when he was already in the field of Tannenbühls went
higher, and the firs and denser were, he had also found his verse and
made a jump for joy in the air.

Then there came a huge man in Flözerkleidung and a rod as long as
a mast in the hand behind the pine trees out.

Peter Munk fell almost to its knees than he that slow next step was to
convert, because he thought this is the Dutch-Michel and no other. Still
silent, the terrible shape, and sometimes frightened Peter squinted
after him. He was probably a head taller than the longest husband,
Peter ever seen, his face was no longer young but not old, but fully
furrows and wrinkles, he was wearing a jerkin of canvas, and the
enormous boots, leather on the leg heraufgezogen clothes were Peter
from the well known legend. " Peter Munk, what are you doing in
Tannenbühl?

"asked the king finally forest with deep, bellowing voice." Good
morning, fellow countryman, "answered Peter, he wanted to show intrepidly,
but trembling violently," I want the house back after Tannenbühl . "Peter
Munk," and replied that threw a pungent, horrible looking him over, "does
not go your way through this grove." "Well, not just as straight,"
said that, "but it's warm today, because I thought it will be cool
here. "" do not lie, thou, Peter Kohl!

                 " Holländer-Michel cried with
                  thundering voice, "or I'll shock
                  'you with the rod to the ground;
                  think I've seen do not beg for the little ones?"

he added softly. "Go, go, that was a silly string, and it is good that
you did not know little, he is a Knaus, the little guy, and there
is not much, and to whom he gives, which is his life is not happy.

Some did not. They broke their
couplers and lay down, while rear cars frolicked over them. In that
game, they had ploughed up and removed and twisted a good deal of the
left-hand track. The Mogul himself had waddled into a corn-field, and
there he knelt--fantastic wreaths of green twisted round his crankpins;
his pilot covered with solid clods of field, on which corn nodded
drunkenly; his fire put out with dirt (Evans had done that as soon as he
recovered his senses); and his broken headlight half full of half-burnt
moths. His tender had thrown coal all over him, and he looked like a
disreputable buffalo who had tried to wallow in a general store.
For there lay scattered over the landscape, from the burst cars,
type-writers, sewing-machines, bicycles in crates, a consignment of
silver-plated imported harness, French dresses and gloves, a dozen
finely moulded hard-wood mantels, a fifteen-foot naphtha-launch, with a
solid brass bedstead crumpled around her bows, a case of telescopes and
microscopes, two coffins, a case of very best candies, some gilt-edged
dairy produce, butter and eggs in an omelette, a broken box of expensive
toys, and a few hundred other luxuries. A camp of tramps hurried up from
nowhere, and generously volunteered to help the crew. So the brakemen,
armed with coupler-pins, walked up and down on one side, and the
freight-conductor and the fireman patrolled the other with their hands
in their hip-pockets. A long-bearded man came out of a house beyond the
corn-field, and told Evans that if the accident had happened a little
later in the year, all his corn would have been burned, and accused
Evans of carelessness. Then he ran away, for Evans was at his heels
shrieking: "'T was his hog done it--his hog done it! Let me kill him!
Let me kill him!" Then the wrecking-crew laughed; and the farmer put his
head out of a window and said that Evans was no gentleman.

But .007 was very sober. He had never seen a wreck before, and it
frightened him. The crew still laughed, but they worked at the same
time; and 007 forgot horror in amazement at the way they handled the
Mogul freight. They dug round him with spades; they put ties in front
of his wheels, and jack-screws under him; they embraced him with the
derrick-chain and tickled him with crowbars; while .007 was hitched on
to wrecked cars and backed away till the knot broke or the cars rolled
clear of the track. By dawn thirty or forty men were at work, replacing
and ramming down the ties, gauging the rails and spiking them. By
daylight all cars who could move had gone on in charge of another loco;
the track was freed for traffic; and 007 had hauled the old Mogul over a
small pavement of ties, inch by inch, till his flanges bit the rail once
more, and he settled down with a clank. But his spirit was broken, and
his nerve was gone.

"'T weren't even a hog," he repeated dolefully; "'t were a shote; and
you--you of all of 'em--had to help me on."

"But how in the whole long road did it happen?" asked 007, sizzling with
curiosity.

"Happen! It didn't happen! It just come! I sailed right on top of him
around that last curve--thought he was a skunk. Yes; he was all as
little as that. He hadn't more 'n squealed once 'fore I felt my bogies
lift (he'd rolled right under the pilot), and I couldn't catch the track
again to save me. Swivelled clean off, I was. Then I felt him sling
himself along, all greasy, under my left leadin' driver, and, oh,
Boilers! that mounted the rail. I heard my flanges zippin' along the
ties, an' the next I knew I was playin' 'Sally, Sally Waters' in the
corn, my tender shuckin' coal through my cab, an' old man Evans lyin'
still an' bleedin' in front o' me. Shook? There ain't a stay or a bolt
or a rivet in me that ain't sprung to glory somewhere."

"Umm!" said 007. "What d' you reckon you weigh?"

"Without these lumps o' dirt I'm all of a hundred thousand pound."

"And the shote?"

"Eighty. Call him a hundred pound at the outside. He's worth about four
'n' a half dollars. Ain't it awful? Ain't it enough to give you nervous
prostration? Ain't it paralysin'? Why, I come just around that curve--"
and the Mogul told the tale again, for he was very badly shaken.

"Well, it's all in the day's run, I guess," said 007, soothingly;
"an'--an' a corn-field's pretty soft fallin'."

"If it had bin a sixty-foot bridge, an' I could ha' slid off into deep
water an' blown up an' killed both men, same as others have done, I
wouldn't ha' cared; but to be ditched by a shote--an' you to help me
out--in a corn-field--an' an old hayseed in his nightgown cussin' me
like as if I was a sick truck-horse!... Oh, it's awful! Don't call me
Mogul! I'm a sewin'-machine, they'll guy my sand-box off in the yard."

And 007, his hot-box cooled and his experience vastly enlarged, hauled
the Mogul freight slowly to the roundhouse.

"Hello, old man! Bin out all night, hain't ye?" said the irrepressible
Poney, who had just come off duty. "Well, I must say you look it.
Costly-perishable-fragile-immediate--that's you! Go to the shops, take
them vine-leaves out o' your hair, an' git 'em to play the hose on you."

"Leave him alone, Poney," said 007 severely, as he was swung on the
turn-table, "or I'll--"

"'Didn't know the old granger was any special friend o' yours, kid. He
wasn't over-civil to you last time I saw him."

"I know it; but I've seen a wreck since then, and it has about scared
the paint off me. I'm not going to guy anyone as long as I steam--not
when they're new to the business an' anxious to learn. And I'm not goin'
to guy the old Mogul either, though I did find him wreathed around with
roastin'-ears. 'T was a little bit of a shote--not a hog--just a shote,
Poney--no bigger'n a lump of anthracite--I saw it--that made all the
mess. Anybody can be ditched, I guess."

"Found that out already, have you? Well, that's a good beginnin'." It
was the Purple Emperor, with his high, tight, plate-glass cab and green
velvet cushion, waiting to be cleaned for his next day's fly.

"Let me make you two gen'lemen acquainted," said Poney. "This is our
Purple Emperor, kid, whom you were admirin' and, I may say, envyin' last
night. This is a new brother, worshipful sir, with most of his mileage
ahead of him, but, so far as a serving-brother can, I'll answer for
him.'

"'Happy to meet you," said the Purple Emperor, with a glance round the
crowded round-house. "I guess there are enough of us here to form a full
meetin'. Ahem! By virtue of the authority vested in me as Head of the
Road, I hereby declare and pronounce No..007 a full and accepted Brother
of the Amalgamated Brotherhood of Locomotives, and as such entitled to
all shop, switch, track, tank, and round-house privileges throughout my
jurisdiction, in the Degree of Superior Flier, it bein' well known and
credibly reported to me that our Brother has covered forty-one miles in
thirty-nine minutes and a half on an errand of mercy to the afflicted.
At a convenient time, I myself will communicate to you the Song and
Signal of this Degree whereby you may be recognised in the darkest
night. Take your stall, newly entered Brother among Locomotives!"

    *    *    *    *    *

Now, in the darkest night, even as the Purple Emperor said, if you
will stand on the bridge across the freightyard, looking down upon the
four-track way, at 2:30 A. M., neither before nor after, when the White
Moth, that takes the overflow from the Purple Emperor, tears south with
her seven vestibuled cream-white cars, you will hear, as the yard-clock
makes the half-hour, a far-away sound like the bass of a violoncello,
and then, a hundred feet to each word,

    "With a michnai--ghignai--shtingal!  Yah!  Yah!  Yah!
     Ein--zwei--drei--Mutter!  Yah!  Yah!  Yah!
           She climb upon der shteeple,
           Und she frighten all der people,
     Singin' michnai--ghignai--shtingal!  Yah!  Yah!"

That is 007 covering his one hundred and fifty-six miles in two hundred
and twenty-one minutes.


THE MALTESE CAT

They had good reason to be proud, and better reason to be afraid, all
twelve of them; for though they had fought their way, game by game,
up the teams entered for the polo tournament, they were meeting
the Archangels that afternoon in the final match; and the Archangels men
were playing with half a dozen ponies apiece. As the game was divided
into six quarters of eight minutes each, that meant a fresh pony after
every halt. The Skidars' team, even supposing there were no accidents,
could only supply one pony for every other change; and two to one is
heavy odds. Again, as Shiraz, the grey Syrian, pointed out, they were
meeting the pink and pick of the polo-ponies of Upper India, ponies that
had cost from a thousand rupees each, while they themselves were a cheap
lot gathered, often from country-carts, by their masters, who belonged
to a poor but honest native infantry regiment.

"Money means pace and weight," said Shiraz, rubbing his black-silk nose
dolefully along his neat-fitting boot, "and by the maxims of the game as
I know it--"

"Ah, but we aren't playing the maxims," said The Maltese Cat. "We're
playing the game; and we've the great advantage of knowing the game.
Just think a stride, Shiraz! We've pulled up from bottom to second
place in two weeks against all those fellows on the ground here. That's
because we play with our heads as well as our feet."

"It makes me feel undersized and unhappy all the same," said Kittiwynk,
a mouse-coloured mare with a red brow-band and the cleanest pair of legs
that ever an aged pony owned. "They've twice our style, these others."

Kittiwynk looked at the gathering and sighed. The hard, dusty
polo-ground was lined with thousands of soldiers, black and white, not
counting hundreds and hundreds of carriages and drags and dogcarts, and
ladies with brilliant-coloured parasols, and officers in uniform and out
of it, and crowds of natives behind them; and orderlies on camels, who
had halted to watch the game, instead of carrying letters up and down
the station; and native horse-dealers running about on thin-eared
Biluchi mares, looking for a chance to sell a few first-class
polo-ponies. Then there were the ponies of thirty teams that had entered
for the Upper India Free-for-All Cup--nearly every pony of worth and
dignity, from Mhow to Peshawar, from Allahabad to Multan; prize ponies,
Arabs, Syrian, Barb, country-bred, Deccanee, Waziri, and Kabul ponies of
every colour and shape and temper that you could imagine. Some of them
were in mat-roofed stables, close to the polo-ground, but most were
under saddle, while their masters, who had been defeated in the earlier
games, trotted in and out and told the world exactly how the game should
be played.

It was a glorious sight, and the come and go of the little, quick
hooves, and the incessant salutations of ponies that had met before on
other polo-grounds or race-courses were enough to drive a four-footed
thing wild.

But the Skidars' team were careful not to know their neighbours, though
half the ponies on the ground were anxious to scrape acquaintance with
the little fellows that had come from the North, and, so far, had swept
the board.

"Let's see," said a soft gold-coloured Arab, who had been playing very
badly the day before, to The Maltese Cat; "didn't we meet in Abdul
Rahman's stable in Bombay, four seasons ago? I won the Paikpattan Cup
next season, you may remember?"

"Not me," said The Maltese Cat, politely. "I was at Malta then, pulling
a vegetable-cart. I don't race. I play the game."

"Oh!" said the Arab, cocking his tail and swaggering off.

"Keep yourselves to yourselves," said The Maltese Cat to his companions.
"We don't want to rub noses with all those goose-rumped half-breeds of
Upper India. When we've won this Cup they'll give their shoes to know
us."

"We sha'n't win the Cup," said Shiraz. "How do you feel?"

"Stale as last night's feed when a muskrat has run over it," said
Polaris, a rather heavy-shouldered grey; and the rest of the team agreed
with him.

"The sooner you forget that the better," said The Maltese Cat,
cheerfully. "They've finished tiffin in the big tent. We shall be wanted
now. If your saddles are not comfy, kick. If your bits aren't easy,
rear, and let the saises know whether your boots are tight."

Each pony had his sais, his groom, who lived and ate and slept with
the animal, and had betted a good deal more than he could afford on the
result of the game. There was no chance of anything going wrong, but
to make sure, each sais was shampooing the legs of his pony to the last
minute. Behind the saises sat as many of the Skidars' regiment as had
leave to attend the match--about half the native officers, and a hundred
or two dark, black-bearded men with the regimental pipers nervously
fingering the big, beribboned bagpipes. The Skidars were what they call
a Pioneer regiment, and the bagpipes made the national music of half
their men. The native officers held bundles of polo-sticks, long
cane-handled mallets, and as the grand stand filled after lunch they
arranged themselves by ones and twos at different points round the
ground, so that if a stick were broken the player would not have far to
ride for a new one. An impatient British Cavalry Band struck up "If you
want to know the time, ask a p'leeceman!" and the two umpires in light
dust-coats danced out on two little excited ponies. The four players of
the Archangels' team followed, and the sight of their beautiful mounts
made Shiraz groan again.

"Wait till we know," said The Maltese Cat. "Two of 'em are playing in
blinkers, and that means they can't see to get out of the way of their
own side, or they may shy at the umpires' ponies. They've all got white
web-reins that are sure to stretch or slip!"

"And," said Kittiwynk, dancing to take the stiffness out of her, "they
carry their whips in their hands instead of on their wrists. Hah!"

"True enough. No man can manage his stick and his reins and his whip
that way," said The Maltese Cat. "I've fallen over every square yard of
the Malta ground, and I ought to know."

He quivered his little, flea-bitten withers just to show how satisfied
he felt; but his heart was not so light. Ever since he had drifted into
India on a troop-ship, taken, with an old rifle, as part payment for
a racing debt, The Maltese Cat had played and preached polo to the
Skidars' team on the Skidars' stony pologround. Now a polo-pony is like
a poet. If he is born with a love for the game, he can be made. The
Maltese Cat knew that bamboos grew solely in order that poloballs might
be turned from their roots, that grain was given to ponies to keep them
in hard condition, and that ponies were shod to prevent them slipping on
a turn. But, besides all these things, he knew every trick and device of
the finest game in the world, and for two seasons had been teaching the
others all he knew or guessed.

"Remember," he said for the hundredth time, as the riders came up, "you
must play together, and you must play with your heads. Whatever happens,
follow the ball. Who goes out first?"

Kittiwynk, Shiraz, Polaris, and a short high little bay fellow with
tremendous hocks and no withers worth speaking of (he was called Corks)
were being girthed up, and the soldiers in the background stared with
all their eyes.

"I want you men to keep quiet," said Lutyens, the captain of the team,
"and especially not to blow your pipes."

"Not if we win, Captain Sahib?" asked the piper.

"If we win you can do what you please," said Lutyens, with a smile, as
he slipped the loop of his stick over his wrist, and wheeled to canter
to his place. The Archangels' ponies were a little bit above themselves
on account of the many-coloured crowd so close to the ground. Their
riders were excellent players, but they were a team of crack players
instead of a crack team; and that made all the difference in the world.
They honestly meant to play together, but it is very hard for four men,
each the best of the team he is picked from, to remember that in polo
no brilliancy in hitting or riding makes up for playing alone. Their
captain shouted his orders to them by name, and it is a curious thing
that if you call his name aloud in public after an Englishman you make
him hot and fretty. Wanted you in my clothes stuck my lady and they save?
That God has saved you, but you're not alone shalt go, I caught myself
with that when you want to stay at your side as your best friend,
and as long as I live, they may not harm you. "" I too would prefer to
you, as I live, "cried the student. It took a long persuasion, to the
countess on this proposal to talk about. She could not bear the
thought that a stranger to them should be sacrificed, they thought, in
the case of a subsequent discovery of the revenge of the robbers, on the
whole of the unfortunate fall would be terrible. But finally won some
of the entreaties of the young people, and partly the conviction in
the case they would be rescued, all of proposed to be able to meet
their rescuers once again liberated. They agreed . The hunters and
other travelers Felix escorted into the room of the student, where
he quickly dress some of the Countess überwarf. The hunter sat him on
the abundance some false hair curls of the chamber and a woman
Damenhut, and all insured that it would not recognize.

Even the circle blacksmith swore that if he met on the street, he nimbly
pull the hat and would not guess that he is in front of his brave
comrades doing his compliment.

The countess had, however, with the help of their woman from the Chamber
Gold Ränzchen of the young worker with clothes provide. The hat, deep
into the forehead pressed to the floor in the travel sector, which has
become somewhat easier bundles on their backs, they completely
obliterated, and the passengers were at any other time over this
masquerade is not funny few have laughed. The new craft lad Felix
thanked with tears and promised to help quickly. "Only one request I
have," answered Felix, "in this Ränzchen that you wear on your back,
there is a small box, keep this carefully! If they lost, I would be
forever and eternally unhappy, I must bring my Pflegmutter and - ""
Gottfried, the hunter knows my castle, "said she," it is undamaged
you all once again be postponed, because I hope Your kommet even
then, noble young man, thanks to my husband's and mine to receive.

"marriage yet Felix could respond, sounded from the stairs since
the rough voices of the robbers, they cried, the time and everything
was verflossen exit the countess ready.

The hunters went down to them and told them that he not leave the lady
and would prefer to go with them, while it also had before it,
without his mistress before his Lord appear.

Also, the student said that this lady will accompany to want. They discuss
about the case and finally confessed to the condition that the
hunter immediately his arms.

At the same time she ordered that the other passengers should
behave quietly when the Countess brought out Felix would let the
veil down, through his hat gebreitet was sat down in a corner of the
forehead in his hand having, and in this position of a deeply
afflicted, he expected the robbers.

The travelers had in the other room to be withdrawn, so that she was
experiencing what , could look over and the hunters sat seem sad,
but everything lurking in the other corner of the room, the countess
had inhabited.

After a few minutes as they sat, went to the door, and a beautiful, stately
dressed man of about six years came into the room.

He wore a kind of military uniform, a medal on the chest, a long sword at
his side, and in his hand he held a hat, from which fine feathers
herabwallten.

Two of his men had just after he joined the Doors filled. He went
with a deep bow to Felix about it seemed to this lady in front of a rank
somewhat embarrassed to be, he continued several times until he
succeeded, sort to speak.

"madam," he said, " there are cases in which you must send in patience.
This is yours. Do not think that I have respect for such a great
lady and just a moment from the eyes to be, you will have all the
conveniences you will have nothing to complain about as perhaps the
horrors that you had this evening.

"Here he inne, as he awaited an answer, but as Felix doggedly silent, he
continued: "You see in me no common thief, no Kehlenabschneider. I am
an unfortunate man, the adverse conditions of life forced on this. We
always want us to remove from this area, but we need travel money.

It would have been us a light, clerks or mail to hijack cars, but then
we would have perhaps several people into a growing disaster. The Lord
Count, your husband, has six weeks with a succession of crowns
made fünfmalhunderttausend.

We ask ourselves twenty thousand guilders of this abundance, certainly
a fair and modest demand. You will therefore have the grace, now at once
an open letter to your husband to write what you notify him that we
held back that he had to pay as soon as possible may afford, otherwise -
you understand me that we had something even harder with you proceed.
The payment will not be accepted if they are not under the seal of
the strictest secrecy by a single man is hierhergebracht.

"This scene was with the team to test all the attention from guests of
the Forest Tavern, at the most timid of the Countess observed. She thought
every moment, the young man who sacrificed for them, could be
betrayed.

She was determined to make him a large ransom price, but it was just
her idea, at any price in the world just one step with the robbers
to leave. They had the skirt pocket of the gold worker found a knife.
They thought it opened desperately in hand, prepared to kill rather
than to suffer such ignominy. but no less anxious themselves While
Felix was strengthened and consoled him the idea that there is a
male and dignity was indeed, a beleaguered, helpless woman in this
way to help, but he feared, by every movement, his voice betraying.

His anxiety increased when the robbers by a letter saying that
he should write.

How should he write? What counts indicate the title, which form the
letters, without having to betray?

His anxiety grew over the top but, as the leader of the robbers
paper and pen laid down before him, asked him, the veil back and
write.

Felix knew not how pretty the dress suited him, in which he was dressed,
he would have known he would be faced with a discovery not in the least
have feared. Because when he finally forced the veil zurückschlug seemed
the Lord in uniform, affected by the beauty of the lady and her somewhat
masculine, bold features, she only has to look reverently. The clear
view of the young goldsmith did not; comforted that at least in
this dangerous moment, no discovery was to be afraid, he took the
pen and wrote to his husband after a perceived shape, as he once
read an old book, he wrote: "My Lord and husband, I am unhappy woman
on my trip in the middle of the night suddenly stopped, and from
people I do not what good intention can trust.

They will hold back as long as me, until you, Mr. Graf, the sum of
20 000 guilders for me down. The condition is that you are not in the
least about the matter with the authorities still complain their
help, to consider, that the money by a single man in the tavern in
the Spessart forest chic; is failing me with a long and hard captivity
threatened.

It implores you to help your Schleuniger unhappy wife. "He handed
the strange letter the leader of the robbers, who durchlas and
approved."

It is entirely on your definition of, "he continued," if your wife
or your Chamber of hunters will choose to accompany. One of these
people I will be with the Lord to your letters to husband to return.
"" The Hunter "and this gentleman here will accompany me," answered
Felix.

"Well," replied that, he went to the door and the Chamber of Women
herbeirief, "says this woman teach you what to do!" The woman appeared
with chamber and seismic tremors. erblaßte Felix Even when he thought
how easily he also could tell you now. But incomprehensible courage of
him in those dangerous strengthened moments, gave him back his
speeches now admits.

"I have nothing further to apply to you," he said, "as the counts that you
ask me as soon as possible from this unfortunate situation to tear."
"And," the robbers continued, "the Lord that you count on accurate and
explicit recommendation that he hide everything and nothing against our
company, until his wife in his hands.

Our spies tell us soon enough to teach, and I would then stand for
nothing.

"The Chamber trembling woman promised everything. It was still
ordered her some clothes and stuff Linne for Women Countess in a
bundle pack, because you are not loaded with too much luggage can,
and when this had happened, called the leader of the robbers, the
lady with a bow on, to follow him.

Felix stood up, the hunter and the student followed him, and
all three went up, accompanied by the leader of the robbers, the stairs.
Before the Forest Tavern, many horses, one of the hunters was
instructed, another, a beautiful little animal, with a women's
saddle which stood ready for the countess, a third were given to
the students.

The captain lifted the young goldsmith in the saddle, strapped him and
then ascended his own horse.

He turned to the right of the lady on the left was one of the
robbers, in the same manner were the hunters and the student is
surrounded.

After the other gang had set on horseback, was the leader with
a whistle helltönenden the signal for departure, and soon the whole
crowd was in the forest disappeared.

The company, which collects in the upper room was recovered gradually
after that appearance of its horrors.

They would like it great or sudden misfortune happened to cultivates
risk, perhaps even been clear, they would not have the thought of her
three companions employed, one in front of their eyes had led. They broke
out in admiration of the young goldsmith, and the countess shed tears
of emotion when they thought that a man so infinitely much to thank
for that, which they never previously done so well that they do not
even know.

It was a consolation for all that the hunters and heldenmütige Wacker
student had accompanied him, they could comfort him when the young
man felt unhappy, yes, the idea was not too far away that perhaps
Waidmann devious means to could find their flight.

They consulted with each other nor what to do. The Countess decided,
because they have no oath against robbers tie, immediately on her husband
zurückzureisen and everything aufzubieten, residence of the prisoner
to discover, to exempt the carter promised after Aschaffenburg to ride
and the courts in pursuit of the robber to call .

The Circle blacksmith but wanted to continue his journey. The travelers
were in the night no longer worried, there was dead silence in the
forest inn, which was recently the scene of such terrible scenes had
been. But when the morning the servants of the Countess to the landlady
hinabgingen, everything ready for departure to make it quickly turned
back and reported that the landlady and her servants in a destitute
condition were found, they were bound in the tavern, and begged to
assistance. The passengers were surprised at this message on. "How?"
Cried the blacksmith circle, "so these people should still be innocent?
So we could have done them wrong, and it stands not in collusion
with the robbers?"

"I shall hang myself instead," replied the coachman, "if we had not
quite yet. This is just fraud, not to be transferred to them. Remember
ye not the suspect miens this economy? Remember ye not, when I what you
wanted, as I trained the dog not letting go, as the landlady and the
house servant appeared immediately and asked sullenly, because what
I have to do it?

But they are our least fortunate of women Countess. Had there been in
the tavern less suspicious that which would have us not be so
suspicious landlady made, we would not be collected were would not
have remained awake.

The robbers had attacked us in sleep, had less to our door guard,
and this confusion of good young lads would never have become
possible.

"She agreed with the opinion of the carter all agreed and decided to
even the landlady and Gesinde its authority when indicated. But in order
to make more secure, they now wanted nothing to remember.

The staff and the carter went down therefore into the Schenkenberger
room, broke the bonds of Diebeshehler and testified as compassionate
and regretful as possible. To its guests even more to be reconciled, the
landlady made only a small bill for everyone and invited them to come
back soon. The Carter paid his mine, took of his suffering comrades
farewell and drove his street. After that made the two boys craft on
his way.

So easy to set the goldsmith, so put it but the lady not a little delicate.
But even more serious about her heart, as under the door to her
landlady hinstreckte criminal hands, in order to leave.

"Oh, what are you but a young blood," she cried at the farewell gentle
boy, "is still so young and already in the world," You're certainly
a rotten herbs, which the masters from the workshop chased.

Well, what goes it me, schenket me the honor at the homecoming, happy
journey! "The countess dared quake with fear and not to reply, she
feared, by their gentle voice betrayed.

The Circle blacksmith noticed it, took his companion by the arm,
said the landlady ade and agreed a funny song, while he cut the
wood.

"Now I'm safe!" cried the countess, as they are about a hundred steps
were removed. "Still I believed the woman would recognize me, and through
its servants arrested.
He hung down his head and let all his muscles go slack, Shikast, Bamboo,
and Who's Who copying his example.

"Better not watch the game," he said. "We aren't playing, and we shall
only take it out of ourselves if we grow anxious. Look at the ground and
pretend it's fly-time."

They did their best, but it was hard advice to follow. The hooves were
drumming and the sticks were rattling all up and down the ground, and
yells of applause from the English troops told that the Archangels were
pressing the Skidars hard. The native soldiers behind the ponies groaned
and grunted, and said things in undertones, and presently they heard a
long-drawn shout and a clatter of hurrahs!

"One to the Archangels," said Shikast, without raising his head. "Time's
nearly up. Oh, my sire and dam!"

"Faiz-Ullah," said The Maltese Cat, "if you don't play to the last nail
in your shoes this time, I'll kick you on the ground before all the
other ponies."

"I'll do my best when my time comes," said the little Arab, sturdily.

The saises looked at each other gravely as they rubbed their ponies'
legs. This was the time when long purses began to tell, and everybody
knew it. Kittiwynk and the others came back, the sweat dripping over
their hooves and their tails telling sad stories.

"They're better than we are," said Shiraz. "I knew how it would be."

"Shut your big head," said The Maltese Cat; "we've one goal to the good
yet."

"Yes; but it's two Arabs and two country-breds to play now," said Corks.
"Faiz-Ullah, remember!" He spoke in a biting voice.

As Lutyens mounted Grey Dawn he looked at his men, and they did not look
pretty. They were covered with dust and sweat in streaks. Their yellow
boots were almost black, their wrists were red and lumpy, and their eyes
seemed two inches deep in their heads; but the expression in the eyes
was satisfactory.

"Did you take anything at tiffin?" said Lutyens; and the team shook
their heads. They were too dry to talk.

"All right. The Archangels did. They are worse pumped than we are."

"They've got the better ponies," said Powell. "I sha'n't be sorry when
this business is over."

That fifth quarter was a painful one in every way. Faiz-Ullah played
like a little red demon, and The Rabbit seemed to be everywhere at once,
and Benami rode straight at anything and everything that came in his
way; while the umpires on their ponies wheeled like gulls outside the
shifting game. But the Archangels had the better mounts,--they had kept
their racers till late in the game,--and never allowed the Skidars to
play football. They hit the ball up and down the width of the ground
till Benami and the rest were outpaced. Then they went forward, and time
and again Lutyens and Grey Dawn were just, and only just, able to send
the ball away with a long, spitting backhander. Grey Dawn forgot that
he was an Arab; and turned from grey to blue as he galloped. Indeed, he
forgot too well, for he did not keep his eyes on the ground as an Arab
should, but stuck out his nose and scuttled for the dear honour of the
game. They had watered the ground once or twice between the quarters,
and a careless waterman had emptied the last of his skinful all in one
place near the Skidars' goal. It was close to the end of the play, and
for the tenth time Grey Dawn was bolting after the ball, when his
near hind-foot slipped on the greasy mud, and he rolled over and
over, pitching Lutyens just clear of the goal-post; and the triumphant
Archangels made their goal. Then "time" was called-two goals all; but
Lutyens had to be helped up, and Grey Dawn rose with his near hind-leg
strained somewhere.

"What's the damage?" said Powell, his arm around Lutyens.

"Collar-bone, of course," said Lutyens, between his teeth. It was the
third time he had broken it in two years, and it hurt him.

Powell and the others whistled.

"Game's up," said Hughes.

"Hold on. We've five good minutes yet, and it isn't my right hand. We
'll stick it out."

"I say," said the Captain of the Archangels, trotting up, "are you
hurt, Lutyens? We'll wait if you care to put in a substitute. I wish--I
mean--the fact is, you fellows deserve this game if any team does. 'Wish
we could give you a man, or some of our ponies--or something."

"You 're awfully good, but we'll play it to a finish, I think."

The Captain of the Archangels stared for a little. "That's not half
bad," he said, and went back to his own side, while Lutyens borrowed a
scarf from one of his native officers and made a sling of it. Then an
Archangel galloped up with a big bath-sponge, and advised Lutyens to put
it under his armpit to ease his shoulder, and between them they tied
up his left arm scientifically; and one of the native officers leaped
forward with four long glasses that fizzed and bubbled.

The team looked at Lutyens piteously, and he nodded. It was the last
quarter, and nothing would matter after that. They drank out the
dark golden drink, and wiped their moustaches, and things looked more
hopeful.

The Maltese Cat had put his nose into the front of Lutyens' shirt and
was trying to say how sorry he was.

"He knows," said Lutyens, proudly. "The beggar knows. I've played him
without a bridle before now--for fun."

"It's no fun now," said Powell. "But we haven't a decent substitute."

"No," said Lutyens. "It's the last quarter, and we've got to make our
goal and win. I'll trust The Cat."

"If you fall this time, you'll suffer a little," said Macnamara.

"I'll trust The Cat," said Lutyens.

"You hear that?" said The Maltese Cat, proudly, to the others. "It's
worth while playing polo for ten years to have that said of you. Now
then, my sons, come along. We'll kick up a little bit, just to show the
Archangels this team haven't suffered."

And, sure enough, as they went on to the ground, The Maltese Cat, after
satisfying himself that Lutyens was home in the saddle, kicked out three
or four times, and Lutyens laughed. The reins were caught up anyhow in
the tips of his strapped left hand, and he never pretended to rely on
them. He knew The Cat would answer to the least pressure of the leg, and
by way of showing off--for his shoulder hurt him very much--he bent
the little fellow in a close figure-of-eight in and out between the
goal-posts. There was a roar from the native officers and men, who
dearly loved a piece of dugabashi (horse-trick work), as they called it,
and the pipes very quietly and scornfully droned out the first bars of
a common bazaar tune called "Freshly Fresh and Newly New," just as
a warning to the other regiments that the Skidars were fit. All the
natives laughed.

"And now," said The Maltese Cat, as they took their place, "remember
that this is the last quarter, and follow the ball!"

"Don't need to be told," said Who's Who.

"Let me go on. All those people on all four sides will begin to crowd
in--just as they did at Malta. You'll hear people calling out, and
moving forward and being pushed back; and that is going to make the
Archangel ponies very unhappy. But if a ball is struck to the boundary,
you go after it, and let the people get out of your way. I went over the
pole of a four-in-hand once, and picked a game out of the dust by it.
Back me up when I run, and follow the ball."

There was a sort of an all-round sound of sympathy and wonder as the
last quarter opened, and then there began exactly what The Maltese
Cat had foreseen. People crowded in close to the boundaries, and the
Archangels' ponies kept looking sideways at the narrowing space. If you
know how a man feels to be cramped at tennis--not because he wants to
run out of the court, but because he likes to know that he can at a
pinch--you will guess how ponies must feel when they are playing in a
box of human beings.

"I'll bend some of those men if I can get away," said Who's Who, as he
rocketed behind the ball; and Bamboo nodded without speaking. They were
playing the last ounce in them, and The Maltese Cat had left the goal
undefended to join them. Lutyens gave him every order that he could
to bring him back, but this was the first time in his career that the
little wise grey had ever played polo on his own responsibility, and he
was going to make the most of it.

"What are you doing here?" said Hughes, as The Cat crossed in front of
him and rode off an Archangel.

"The Cat's in charge--mind the goal!" shouted Lutyens, and bowing
forward hit the ball full, and followed on, forcing the Archangels
towards their own goal.

"No football," said The Maltese Cat. "Keep the ball by the boundaries
and cramp 'em. Play open order, and drive 'em to the boundaries."

Across and across the ground in big diagonals flew the ball, and
whenever it came to a flying rush and a stroke close to the boundaries
the Archangel ponies moved stiffly. They did not care to go headlong
at a wall of men and carriages, though if the ground had been open they
could have turned on a sixpence.

"Wriggle her up the sides," said The Cat. "Keep her close to the crowd.
They hate the carriages. Shikast, keep her up this side."

Shikast and Powell lay left and right behind the uneasy scuffle of an
open scrimmage, and every time the ball was hit away Shikast galloped
on it at such an angle that Powell was forced to hit it towards the
boundary; and when the crowd had been driven away from that side,
Lutyens would send the ball over to the other, and Shikast would
slide desperately after it till his friends came down to help. It was
billiards, and no football, this time--billiards in a corner pocket; and
the cues were not well chalked.

"If they get us out in the middle of the ground they'll walk away from
us. Dribble her along the sides," cried The Maltese Cat.

So they dribbled all along the boundary, where a pony could not come on
their right-hand side; and the Archangels were furious, and the umpires
had to neglect the game to shout at the people to get back, and several
blundering mounted policemen tried to restore order, all close to the
scrimmage, and the nerves of the Archangels' ponies stretched and broke
like cob-webs.

said the little man. "I did not continue to be miserable swelter." "But
you should at your age is no longer so difficult," said Ms. Lisbeth.
"Yes, if I would not go messenger, poverty, and half my life in order
to deadlines", he replied, "oh, so a rich woman as you do not know
how woe poverty does and how well a fresh drink in such heat."

When they heard this, they hurried into the house, took a jug from
the ledge and filled it with water, but when she returned, and only a few
steps away from him and the man saw it so miserable and stunted
sat on the sack, because she felt pity intimate, thoughtful, so
that her husband was not home, and so presented they set aside the
water, took a cup and filled it with wine, put a good rye bread on
it and brought it to the ancients.

"That, and a sip of wine you like more devout than water, because your
so old you do," she said, "but do not drink so hastily and even bread
to eat!" The man she saw in amazement, and large tears in his eyes
were old, drank it and then said: "I'm old, but I've seen a few people
who were so compassionate and their gifts so beautiful and heartfelt
to know how your donation, Ms.

Lisbeth. But it is for you also go well on earth, such a heart does not
remain unrewarded. "" No, and they should pay for the body, "cried
a terrible voice, and when they umsahen, it was Peter with blood-red
face."

And even My honor wine you pour from begging to people, and my mouth cup
to give you the lips of the road runner? Because, take your wages! "
Ms. Lisbeth fell at his feet and begged for forgiveness, but the stony
heart knew no pity, he turned to the whip, which he held in his hand, and
beat it with the handle of ebony so violently against the beautiful
forehead that lifeless the old man fell into the arms. As he saw it
was, as it dispersed, the deed to the point, he bent down down,
to see if life in it yet, but the man spoke with well-known voice: "Give
yourself no trouble, Peter Kohl, it was the most beautiful and lovely
flower in the Black Forest, but you crush it, and never again will
they bloom again. "Since most all the blood from Peter's cheeks, and he
said:" So there you are, Mr. Hauser treasure? Well, what happened
is done, and it must come as well. I hope, however, you will myself
not to show the court as a murderer. "miserable!" Glass said the man.
"What would I devout, if I am your mortal shell to the gallows
would? Not earthly courts are the ones you have to fear, but
different and more stringent, because you've got your soul to the evil
sold." "And did I sell my heart, "cried Peter," so nobody is
to blame as you and your treasures fraudulent, malicious spirit
thou hast brought me to ruin, made me that I was looking for another
means, and you lie all the responsibility. " But hardly had he said this,
it grew and swelled and the glass man was tall and wide, and his eyes
should have been as big as soup plates, and his mouth was like a heated
oven, and flame flashed forth. Peter threw himself on his knees, and
his heart of stone not protected him, not that his limbs trembled like
an aspen. With vulture talons grabbed him the spirit of the forest in
the neck, turned him around, like a whirlwind dry leaves, and then
threw him to the ground that all his ribs cracked. "Earth worm!" he
cried with a voice that rolled like thunder, "I could crush you if I
wanted to, because you have against the Lord of the forest gefrevelt.
But to this dead woman's sake, which I have fed and watered, I give you
eight day period. Bekehrst you're not good, so I come and crush your
bones, and you are going out in your sins. "It was already evening,
when some men who went past, the rich Peter Munk to the Earth are
watched. They turned him back and forth and searched, even if it was
breathing, but it was a long search in vain. Finally, one went into
the house and brought the water over and sprayed him. As Peter
fetched a deep breath, and groaned, the eyes, looked at him long and
then asked Ms. Lisbeth, but none had seen it. He thanked the men for
their help, crept back into his house and searched everywhere, but
neither Mrs. Lisbeth was in the basement or on the ground, and what he
kept a terrible dream, it was a bitter truth. As he was quite alone,
as strange thought came to him and he afraid of nothing, because his
heart was so cold, but when connected to the death of his wife thought
- came to him his own Hinscheiden in the sense, and how burdened He
will then drive, heavy burdened with tears of the poor, with thousands
of their curses, which does not soften his heart was with the misery
of the poor, to which he rushed his dog, charged with the quiet despair
of his mother, with the blood of the beautiful, Lisbeth good, and he
could not but once the old man, her father, accountable, if he
came and asked: "Where is my daughter, your wife?"

How he wanted to another question, to which all the forests, all the
lakes, and all the mountains are the lives of people? It tormented
him at night in dreams, and all the moments he woke up to a sweet voice,
to him: "Peter, you create a warmer heart! " And if he was awake, but
he quickly closed his eyes again, because of the voice after it was his
wife Lisbeth, his quiet this warning zurief. The other day he
walked into the inn, in order to dissipate his thoughts, and there he
met the Ezekiel thick.

He sat down with him, they said this and that, by the beautiful weather,
the war, from the taxes and, finally, by death, and how here and
there so quickly had died.

Since the thicknesses asked Peter what they think because of the death,
and how it will be afterwards. Ezekiel answered him that the body
buried, the soul but to go either to heaven or down to hell. "So you
bury your heart, too?" Peter asked the curious. "egg admittedly,
this is also buried." "But if one's heart no longer has?" Peter
drove continue.

Ezekiel saw him in these words of awful. "What do you mean by this? Do
you want to fool me?

Do you think I have no heart?" "Oh, enough heart, so hard, like stone,"
replied Peter. Ezekiel looked puzzled at him, looked around, if no one
heard, and said then: "How do you know it? Or maybe the beating also
deinige no more?" "No longer insist, at least not here in my chest!"
Peter Munk said. "But tell me, since you now know what I mean, how will
it go with our hearts?"

"What you care, this society?" Ezekiel asked laughingly. "Did the earth
so full of life and should be enough. That is just comfortable in our
cold hearts, that we do not fear attacks against such thoughts." "Well-true,
but one thinks it out and although I now no fear know more, so I know
but still, how much I am afraid of hell before, when I was a small boy
was innocent. "" Well - well we will just not go, "said Ezekiel. "I
have take a schoolmaster asked about who said to me that after the death
of the heart will be weighed, how hard they had versündigt. The slight
rise to the severe fall down, and I think that our stones are a
good weight "."

Oh, certainly, "replied Peter," and it is often even me uncomfortable,
that my heart so completely indifferent and unresponsive is when I think
of such things. "So they said, but the next night heard a five - or
six times the familiar voice in his ear lisp: "Peter, you create a
warmer heart!" He felt no remorse, that he killed them, but if he
Gesinde said his wife was traveling, so he always thought this: "Where
they may be well traveled?

" Six days he is so driven, and always at night he heard this voice,
and he always thought of the forest spirit and his terrible threat,
but on the seventh morning, he jumped from his bed and cried: "Well,
will see if I I can create a warmer, because of the indifferent
stone in my chest makes my life just boring and tedious. " He moved
quickly to his Sunday best and sat on his horse and rode to the
Tannenbühl.

In Tannenbühl, where the trees were thick, as he sat, tied his horse
and went quick step to the summit of the hill, and as he was before the
thick fir stand, he began his award to "Treasure Houses in the green
pine forest, now hundreds of years old, is all your 'country, where fir
stand, Can you see Sunday only children." Then came the glass man
show, but not friendly and confidential as usual, but dark and
sad, it had a Röcklein in black glass, and a long Trauerflor fluttered
down from the hat, and Peter knew well to whom he mourned. "What
do you want from me, Peter Munk?" asked it to dull voice. "I have another
request, Mr. Hauser treasure," Peter replied, with downcast eyes beaten.
"heart of stone can still wish for?" said that. "You have everything
you need for your poor sense of need, and I will hardly satisfy your
desire." "But you gave me but promised three wishes, one hab 'I still
have left." "But I can fail him when he is foolish," the forest
spirit continues, "but Well, I want to hear what you want." "So I fear
the dead stone, and my prayer living heart," said Peter. "Do I trade
with you done?" Glass asked the man, "I am of the Dutch-Michel, the
richness and cold heart gives? There, with him you need to search your
heart." "Oh, he never gives it back," answered Peter. "You dauerst
me so bad you are, "said the man after some thought. "But because
your desire is not stupid, so can I give you my help at least not fail.
To hear. Your heart you can not get more violence, but by cunning, and
it is perhaps not difficult to keep because Michel remains the only Michel
stupid, although he seems uncommonly wise. To go straight to him
since, and do you like me hot! " And then he taught him everything and
gave him a glass of pure Kreuzlein: "On your life he can not hurt,
and he will let you free if you reserved him this and to pray you
will.

And did you, what you require 've received, so come back to me at this
place! "Peter Munk, the Kreuzlein coined all the words to memory and
went on to Dutch-Michels dwelling. He called his name three times,
and the giant alsobald stood before him. "You killed your wife?" he
asked him with a terrible laugh. 'Had' is also done so, it has your
assets to the people begging placed. But you will at some time out of
the country must go, because it will make noise if you can not find it,
and you need money, and probably come to view it to bring? "" You've's
guess, "replied Peter," and pretty much just this time, because
America's is far. "Michelangelo went ahead and took him into his hut,
where he opened a chest in what was a lot of money, and Gold reached
full rolls out. While he was there on the table so hinzählte said Peter:
"You are a free bird, Michel, that thou hast lied to me, I had a
stone in the chest and you habest my heart!" "And is it not so? "
asked Michel astonishment. "Do thou thy heart? Is not it cold as ice?
Do you have fear or grief, can you reuen something?" "You have my heart
just stands still, but I've got it yet as usual in my chest, and
also Ezekiel who has told me that thou hast angelogen us, you're not
the man to comply with a heart so silently and without any danger from
the chest pull could have to because you can conjure. "" But I assure
you, "cried Michel unmutes, "you and Ezekiel and all the rich people who
kept it with me, have such a cold heart like you, and its heart right
here, I have in my chamber." "Oh, you like the lies of the tongue
goes!" Peter laughed. "That do you know another! Do you think I've
got on my travels to dozens of such feats seen? Imitated wax from your
heart is here in the chamber. You're a rich guy that'll give 'me to, but
can conjure you do not. "ergrimmte As the giant, and tore at the
chamber door. "Come here and read all the labels, and that there,
look, this is Peter Munk's heart, you'll see how it twitches? Can you
also make wax?" "And yet it is made of wax," answered Peter. "This
suggests a heart is not right, I have mine still in the chest. No, you
can not perform miracles!" "But I will prove it to you!" cried that
angry. "Thou shalt even feel that this is your heart." He took it, tore
Peters doublet and took a stone out of his chest and showed it
before. Then he took the heart, breathed on it and set it gently in his
place, and Peter alsobald felt like it knocked, and he could be happy
again. "How is it to you now?" Michel asked smiling. "Truly, you've
had quite," answered Peter, he gently Kreuzlein be pulled out of the
bag. "Had I not believed that you could do the like!" "Not true?
And I can conjure, which you'll see, but come on, now I will
give you the stone back into place." Chamber, Mr Michel! " cried Peter,
took a step back and gave him the Kreuzlein opposite. "With the bacon
begins to mice, and this time you are the betrayed." And at the same
time he began to pray, which gave him only beifiel. As Michelangelo
was small and getting smaller, fell down and be walked back and
forth like a worm and groans and moaned, and all around the heart
began to twitch and to insist that it sounded like in the workshop
of a clockmaker.

But Peter was afraid, and it was very scary to him reasonable, he ran
to the chamber and to the house and also Klimmt, driven by fear, the
rock wall hinan, because he heard that Michel is aufraffte, stamped
and raged and terrible curses him nachschickte. When he was up, he
ran to the Tannenbühl; a terrible thunderstorm moved in,
lightning fell left and right of him and crashed down the trees,
but he was probably kept in the area of the glass to man.

His heart knocked sociable, and only about because it knocked.

But then he saw with horror at how his life back on the storm, right
behind him and left the beautiful forest fragmentation. He thought of
Mrs. Lisbeth, his beautiful, good woman that he murdered from stinginess,
he came himself to the ejection of the people, and he cried violently
when he was man of glass hill came. Treasure houses have sat under the
tree and smoke from a small pipe, but he saw better mood than before.
"Why you cry, Peter Kohl?" he asked. "Do you have your heart does not
receive even if the cold in your chest?" "Oh, Lord!" Peter sighed, "when
I have the cold stone heart was because I never cry, my eyes were as dry
as the land in July, but now it wants me almost break the old heart
of what I done, my debt, I have hunted into misery , on the poor
and the sick, the dogs rushed, and you even know it - like my whip
on her forehead was beautiful!

" "Peter! You were a great sinner!" said the little man. "The money and
idleness have spoiled you, till your heart to stone, and not Freud, not
sorrow, no remorse, no pity more of it. But remorse reconciled, and
if I only knew that thy life quite sorry, so I could still have
what you are doing. "" Will nothing more, "answered Peter, and let
fall his head sadly. "With me it is out of my life I can no longer
look, what am I so alone in the world do? My mother never forgive me
what I done it, and perhaps hab 'ich they put the floor, I monster! And
Lisbeth, my wife! Schlageter I also prefer dead, Mr. Hauser treasure, then,
my miserable life with one end. "" Well, "replied the man," if you do
not otherwise want, so you can have it, had my ax I have to hand. "
He was very quiet Pfeiflein from the mouth, knocking it out and stuck
it. Then he stood slowly and went behind the firs. But Peter sat
weeping on the grass, his life was nothing more to him, and he
patiently awaited the death of String.
All told, mark you, it was this
side o' three hunder pound--to be preceese, two hunder an' eighty-six
pound four shillings. There's not another man could ha' nursed the
Breslau for eight months to that tune. Never again--never again! They
may send their boats to the bottom, for aught I care."

"There's no need," said Janet, softly. "We're done wi' Holdock, Steiner
& Chase."

"It's irritatin', Janet, it's just irritatin'. I ha' been justified
from first to last, as the world knows, but--but I canna forgie 'em. Ay,
wisdom is justified o' her children; an' any other man than me wad ha'
made the indent eight hunder. Hay was our skipper--ye'll have met him.
They shifted him to the Torgau, an' bade me wait for the Breslau under
young Bannister. Ye'll obsairve there'd been a new election on the
Board. I heard the shares were sellin' hither an' yon, an' the major
part of the Board was new to me. The old Board would ne'er ha' done it.
They trusted me. But the new Board were all for reorganisation. Young
Steiner--Steiner's son--the Jew, was at the bottom of it, an' they did
not think it worth their while to send me word. The first I knew--an'
I was Chief Engineer--was the notice of the line's winter sailin's, and
the Breslau timed for sixteen days between port an' port! Sixteen days,
man! She's a good boat, but eighteen is her summer time, mark you.
Sixteen was sheer flytin', kitin' nonsense, an' so I told young
Bannister.

"We've got to make it,' he said. 'Ye should not ha' sent in a three
hunder pound indent.'

"Do they look for their boats to be run on air?' I said. 'The Board's
daft.'

"'E'en tell 'em so,' he says. 'I'm a married man, an' my fourth's on the
ways now, she says.'"

"A boy--wi' red hair," Janet put in. Her own hair is the splendid
red-gold that goes with a creamy complexion.

"My word, I was an angry man that day! Forbye I was fond o' the old
Breslau, I looked for a little consideration from the Board after
twenty years' service. There was Board-meetin' on Wednesday, an' I slept
overnight in the engine-room, takin' figures to support my case. Well,
I put it fair and square before them all. 'Gentlemen,' I said, 'I've run
the Breslau eight seasons, an' I believe there's no fault to find wi' my
wark. But if ye haud to this'--I waggled the advertisement at 'em--'this
that I've never heard of it till I read it at breakfast, I do assure you
on my professional reputation, she can never do it. That is to say, she
can for a while, but at a risk no thinkin' man would run.'

"'What the deil d' ye suppose we pass your indents for?' says old
Holdock. 'Man, we're spendin' money like watter.'

"'I'll leave it in the Board's hands,' I said, 'if two hunder an'
eighty-seven pound is anything beyond right and reason for eight
months.' I might ha' saved my breath, for the Board was new since
the last election, an' there they sat, the damned deevidend-huntin'
ship-chandlers, deaf as the adders o' Scripture.

"'We must keep faith wi' the public,' said young Steiner.

"'Keep faith wi' the Breslau, then,' I said. 'She's served you well,
an' your father before you. She'll need her bottom restiffenin', an'
new bed-plates, an' turnin' out the forward boilers, an' re-turnin' all
three cylinders, an' refacin' all guides, to begin with. It's a three
months' job.'

"'Because one employee is afraid? 'says young Steiner. 'Maybe a piano in
the Chief Engineer's cabin would be more to the point.'

"I crushed my cap in my hands, an' thanked God we'd no bairns an' a bit
put by.

"'Understand, gentlemen,' I said. 'If the Breslau is made a sixteen-day
boat, ye'll find another engineer.'

"'Bannister makes no objection,' said Holdock.

"'I'm speakin' for myself,' I said. 'Bannister has bairns. 'An' then
I lost my temper. 'Ye can run her into Hell an' out again if ye pay
pilotage,' I said, 'but ye run without me.'

"'That's insolence,' said young Steiner.

"'At your pleasure,' I said, turnin' to go.

"'Ye can consider yourself dismissed. We must preserve discipline among
our employees,' said old Holdock, an' he looked round to see that the
Board was with him. They knew nothin'--God forgie 'em--an' they nodded
me out o' the line after twenty years--after twenty years.

"I went out an' sat down by the hall porter to get my wits again. I'm
thinkin' I swore at the Board. Then auld McRimmon--o' McNaughten &
McRimmon--came, oot o' his office, that's on the same floor, an' looked
at me, proppin' up one eyelid wi' his forefinger. Ye know they call him
the Blind Deevil, forbye he onythin' but blind, an' no deevil in his
dealin's wi' me--McRimmon o' the Black Bird Line.

"'What's here, Mister McPhee?' said he.

"I was past prayin' for by then. 'A Chief Engineer sacked after twenty
years' service because he'll not risk the Breslau on the new timin', an'
be damned to ye, McRimmon,' I said.

"The auld man sucked in his lips an' whistled. 'AH,' said he, 'the new
timin'. I see!' He doddered into the Board-room I'd just left, an' the
Dandie-dog that is just his blind man's leader stayed wi' me. That was
providential. In a minute he was back again. 'Ye've cast your bread on
the watter, McPhee, an' be damned to you,' he says. 'Whaur's my dog? My
word, is he on your knee? There's more discernment in a dog than a Jew.
What garred ye curse your Board, McPhee? It's expensive.'

"'They'll pay more for the Breslau,' I said. 'Get off my knee, ye
smotherin' beast.'

"'Bearin's hot, eh?' said McRimmon. 'It's thirty year since a man daur
curse me to my face. Time was I'd ha' cast ye doon the stairway for
that.'

"'Forgie's all!' I said. He was wearin' to eighty, as I knew. 'I was
wrong, McRimmon; but when a man's shown the door for doin' his plain
duty he's not always ceevil.'

"'So I hear,' says McRimmon. 'Ha' ye ony objection to a tramp freighter?
It's only fifteen a month, but they say the Blind Deevil feeds a man
better than others. She's my Kite. Come ben. Ye can thank Dandie, here.
I'm no used to thanks. An' noo,' says he, 'what possessed ye to throw up
your berth wi' Holdock?'

"'The new timin',' said I. 'The Breslau will not stand it.'

"'Hoot, oot,' said he. 'Ye might ha' crammed her a little--enough to
show ye were drivin' her--an' brought her in twa days behind. What's
easier than to say ye slowed for bearin's, eh? All my men do it, and--I
believe 'em.'

"'McRimmon,' says I, 'what's her virginity to a lassie?'

"He puckered his dry face an' twisted in his chair. 'The warld an' a','
says he. 'My God, the vara warld an' a' (But what ha' you or me to do
wi' virginity, this late along?)'

"'This,' I said. 'There's just one thing that each one of us in his
trade or profession will not do for ony consideration whatever. If I run
to time I run to time barrio' always the risks o' the high seas. Less
than that, under God, I have not done. More than that, by God, I will
not do! There's no trick o' the trade I'm not acquaint wi'--'

"'So I've heard,' says McRimmon, dry as a biscuit.

"'But yon matter o' fair rennin' s just my Shekinah, ye'll understand. I
daurna tamper wi' that. Nursing weak engines is fair craftsmanship;
but what the Board ask is cheatin', wi' the risk o' manslaughter
addeetional.' Ye'll note I know my business.

"There was some more talk, an' next week I went aboard the Kite,
twenty-five hunder ton, simple compound, a Black Bird tramp. The deeper
she rode, the better she'd steam. I've snapped as much as eleven out of
her, but eight point three was her fair normal. Good food forward an'
better aft, all indents passed wi'out marginal remarks, the best coal,
new donkeys, and good crews. There was nothin' the old man would not do,
except paint. That was his deeficulty. Ye could no more draw paint than
his last teeth from him. He'd come down to dock, an' his boats a scandal
all along the watter, an' he'd whine an' cry an' say they looked all he
could desire. Every owner has his non plus ultra, I've obsairved. Paint
was McRimmon's. But you could get round his engines without riskin'
your life, an', for all his blindness, I've seen him reject five
flawed intermediates, one after the other, on a nod from me; an' his
cattle-fittin's were guaranteed for North Atlantic winter weather. Ye
ken what that means? McRimmon an' the Black Bird Line, God bless him!

"Oh, I forgot to say she would lie down an' fill her forward deck green,
an' snore away into a twenty-knot gale forty-five to the minute, three
an' a half knots an hour, the engines runnin' sweet an' true as a bairn
breathin' in its sleep. Bell was skipper; an' forbye there's no love
lost between crews an' owners, we were fond o' the auld Blind Deevil an'
his dog, an' I'm thinkin' he liked us. He was worth the windy side o'
twa million sterlin', an' no friend to his own blood-kin. Money's an
awfu' thing--overmuch--for a lonely man.

"I'd taken her out twice, there an' back again, when word came o' the
Breslau's breakdown, just as I prophesied. Calder was her engineer--he's
not fit to run a tug down the Solent--and he fairly lifted the engines
off the bed-plates, an' they fell down in heaps, by what I heard. So
she filled from the after stuffin'-box to the after bulkhead, an' lay
star-gazing, with seventy-nine squealin' passengers in the saloon, till
the Camaralzaman o' Ramsey & Gold's Cartagena line gave her a tow to
the tune o' five thousand seven hunder an' forty pound, wi' costs in the
Admiralty Court. She was helpless, ye'll understand, an' in no case
to meet ony weather. Five thousand seven hunder an' forty pounds, with
costs, an' exclusive o' new engines! They'd ha' done better to ha' kept
me on the old timin'.

"But, even so, the new Board were all for retrenchment. Young Steiner,
the Jew, was at the bottom of it. They sacked men right an' left, that
would not eat the dirt the Board gave 'em. They cut down repairs;
they fed crews wi' leavin's an' scrapin's; and, reversin', McRimmon's
practice, they hid their defeeciencies wi' paint an' cheap gildin'. Quem
Deus vult perrdere prrius dementat, ye remember.

"In January we went to dry-dock, an' in the next dock lay the Grotkau,
their big freighter that was the Dolabella o' Piegan, Piegan & Walsh's
line in '84--a Clyde-built iron boat, a flat-bottomed, pigeon-breasted,
under-engined, bull-nosed bitch of a five thousand ton freighter, that
would neither steer, nor steam, nor stop when ye asked her. Whiles
she'd attend to her helm, whiles she'd take charge, whiles she'd wait to
scratch herself, an' whiles she'd buttock into a dockhead. But Holdock
and Steiner had bought her cheap, and painted her all over like the Hoor
o' Babylon, an' we called her the Hoor for short." (By the way, McPhee
kept to that name throughout the rest of his tale; so you must read
accordingly.) "I went to see young Bannister--he had to take what the
Board gave him, an' he an' Calder were shifted together from the Breslau
to this abortion--an' talkin' to him I went into the dock under her.
Her plates were pitted till the men that were paint, paint, paintin' her
laughed at it. But the warst was at the last. She'd a great clumsy iron
twelve-foot Thresher propeller--Aitcheson designed the Kites'--and just
on the tail o' the shaft, behind the boss, was a red weepin' crack ye
could ha' put a penknife to. Man, it was an awful crack!

"'When d' ye ship a new tail-shaft?' I said to Bannister.

"He knew what I meant. 'Oh, yon's a superfeecial flaw,' says he, not
lookin' at me.

"'Superfeecial Gehenna!' I said. 'Ye'll not take her oot wi' a solution
o' continuity that like.'

"'They'll putty it up this evening,' he said. 'I'm a married man,
an'--ye used to know the Board.'

"I e'en said what was gied me in that hour. Ye know how a drydock
echoes. I saw young Steiner standin' listenin' above me, an', man, he
used language provocative of a breach o' the peace. I was a spy and a
disgraced employ, an' a corrupter o' young Bannister's morals, an' he'd
prosecute me for libel. He went away when I ran up the steps--I'd ha'
thrown him into the dock if I'd caught him--an' there I met McRimmon,
wi' Dandie pullin' on the chain, guidin' the auld man among the railway
lines.

"'McPhee,' said he, 'ye're no paid to fight Holdock, Steiner, Chase &
Company, Limited, when ye meet. What's wrong between you?'

"'No more than a tail-shaft rotten as a kail-stump. For ony sakes go an'
look, McRimmon. It's a comedietta.'

"'I'm feared o' yon conversational Hebrew,' said he. 'Whaur's the flaw,
an' what like?'

"'A seven-inch crack just behind the boss. There's no power on earth
will fend it just jarrin' off.'

"'When?'

"'That's beyon' my knowledge,' I said.

"'So it is; so it is,' said McRimmon. 'We've all oor leemitations. Ye're
certain it was a crack?'

"'Man, it's a crevasse,' I said, for there were no words to describe
the magnitude of it. 'An' young Bannister's sayin' it's no more than a
superfeecial flaw!'

"'Weell, I tak' it oor business is to mind oor business. If ye've
ony friends aboard her, McPhee, why not bid them to a bit dinner at
Radley's?'

"'I was thinkin' o' tea in the cuddy,' I said. 'Engineers o' tramp
freighters cannot afford hotel prices.'

"'Na! na!' says the auld man, whimperin'. 'Not the cuddy. They'll laugh
at my Kite, for she's no plastered with paint like the Hoor. Bid them to
Radley's, McPhee, an' send me the bill. Thank Dandie, here, man. I'm no
used to thanks.' Then he turned him round. (I was just thinkin' the vara
same thing.) 'Mister McPhee,' said he, 'this is not senile dementia.'

"'Preserve 's!' I said, clean jumped oot o' mysel'. 'I was but thinkin'
you're fey, McRimmon.'

"Dod, the auld deevil laughed till he nigh sat down on Dandie. 'Send me
the bill,' says he. 'I'm long past champagne, but tell me how it tastes
the morn.'

"Bell and I bid young Bannister and Calder to dinner at Radley's.
They'll have no laughin' an' singin' there, but we took a private
room--like yacht-owners fra' Cowes."

McPhee grinned all over, and lay back to think.

"And then?" said I.

"We were no drunk in ony preceese sense o' the word, but Radley's showed
me the dead men. There were six magnums o' dry champagne an' maybe a
bottle o' whisky."

"Do you mean to tell me that you four got away with a magnum and a half
a piece, besides whisky?" I demanded.

McPhee looked down upon me from between his shoulders with toleration.

"Man, we were not settin' down to drink," he said. "They no more than
made us wutty. To be sure, young Bannister laid his head on the table
an' greeted like a bairn, an' Calder was all for callin' on Steiner at
two in the morn an' painting him galley-green; but they'd been drinkin'
the afternoon. Lord, how they twa cursed the Board, an' the Grotkau, an'
the tail-shaft, an' the engines, an' a'! They didna talk o' superfeecial
flaws that night. I mind young Bannister an' Calder shakin' hands on
a bond to be revenged on the Board at ony reasonable cost this side o'
losing their certificates. Now mark ye how false economy ruins business.
The Board fed them like swine (I have good reason to know it), an' I've
obsairved wi' my ain people that if ye touch his stomach ye wauken the
deil in a Scot. Men will tak' a dredger across the Atlantic if they 're
well fed, an' fetch her somewhere on the broadside o' the Americas; but
bad food's bad service the warld over.

"The bill went to McRimmon, an' he said no more to me till the week-end,
when I was at him for more paint, for we'd heard the Kite was chartered
Liverpool-side. 'Bide whaur ye're put,' said the Blind Deevil. 'Man, do
ye wash in champagne? The Kite's no leavin' here till I gie the order,
an'--how am I to waste paint onher, wi' the Lammergeyer docked for who
knows how long an' a'?'

"She was our big freighter--McIntyre was engineer--an' I knew she'd
come from overhaul not three months. That morn I met McRimmon's
head-clerk--ye'll not know him--fair bitin' his nails off wi'
mortification.

Then it drew a huge magnifying glass out, stepped into the sun and
lit his pipe.

When he was finished, he offered Peter the friendly hand, gave him
some good lessons on the way, smoked and blew faster and faster and
finally disappeared in a cloud of smoke, which smelled real Dutch
tobacco and, slowly rippling in Tannenwipfeln the mind.

When Peter came home, he found his mother very worried about him,
as the good woman did not believe differently than her son had been
excavated to the soldiers.

But he was cheerful and good things and told her how he in the
forest, made a good friend who had advanced him money to another
business as a coal burning begin.

Although his mother has been thirty years in the Köhler hut and lived
at the sight berußter was accustomed to people than any Müllerin
Mehlgesicht to her husband, so she was vain enough but as soon as its
a brilliant Peter Los demonstrated their earlier stand to despise and
said: "Yes, as a mother of a man who owns a glass, but what am I
other than neighbor Grete and Pray and put me in the future vornehin
in the church, where people sit right." Her son became the heir of
the glass trade agreement soon, he kept the workers who witnessed
it, to himself and had now day and night to make glass.

At first he liked the craft well, he used leisurely in the glass down,
went out there with steps, hands in the pockets in, to and fro,
meantime, looked, looked there, said this and that what his workers
are often not a little laugh , and his greatest joy was to blow the
glass to see, and often he made himself to work and formed from the
remaining soft mass of the strangest characters.

Soon, however, was his work entleidet, and he was initially only one hour
of the day in the hut, then only every two days, finally just once a
week, and his companions did what they wanted. This all came
but only by running Tavern . Sunday, after he came back from Tannenbühl
was, he went into the inn, and who is already on the dance floor
jumping, was king of the dance floor, and the thick Ezekiel was
already behind the Maßkanne and knöchelte to crown thalers.

As Peter went quickly into the bag, to see whether his glass Männlein
word and see its bursting bag of silver and gold.

Even in his legs jerked and squeezed it as if she wanted to dance and
jump, and as the first dance was over, he settled with his top dancer
at the dance floor next king, and these three shoe jumped high, so Peter
flew four, and made this wonderful and graceful steps, so Peter swallowed
and turned his feet, that all the viewers pleasure and surprise
came nearly beside himself.

As but one on the dance floor heard that Peter had bought a
glass, as you saw that he so often did he vorbeitanzte to the
musicians, give them a Sechsbätzner zuwarf, there was no end of
amazement.

Some believed he had a treasure found in the forest, while others thought
he had done an inheritance, but they all revered him and considered
him a man-made, just because he had money.

Playful he still on the same evening twenty guilders and nichtsdestominder
rasselte and sounded it in his pocket as if it were one hundred thalers.
When Peter saw as he was, knew he was with joy and pride not to act.
He threw the money away with hands full and shared it generously with
the poor, but he knew how he himself had pressed poverty.

King of the dance floor before the arts were arts of the new
supernatural zuschanden dancer, and Peter introduced the name of
dance Kaiser.

The play on Sunday dared not so much as he, but they lost not so much.
And the more he lost, the more he won. It behaved quite like it from
the small glass man had requested.

He had wanted ever so much money in the bag, as the thick
Ezekiel. And it was precisely this, to which his money playful.
"But you don't go by the Fastnet to get to any South American port, do
you?" I said.

"We do not. We prefer to go as direct as may be. But we were followin'
the Grotkau, an' she'd no walk into that gale for ony consideration.
Knowin' what I did to her discredit, I couldna blame young Bannister.
It was warkin' up to a North Atlantic winter gale, snow an' sleet an' a
perishin' wind. Eh, it was like the Deil walkin' abroad o' the surface
o' the deep, whuppin' off the top o' the waves before he made up his
mind. They'd bore up against it so far, but the minute she was clear
o' the Skelligs she fair tucked up her skirts an' ran for it by Dunmore
Head. Wow, she rolled!

"'She'll be makin' Smerwick,' says Bell.

"She'd ha' tried for Ventry by noo if she meant that,' I said.

"'They'll roll the funnel oot o' her, this gait,' says Bell. 'Why canna
Bannister keep her head to sea?'

"It's the tail-shaft. Ony rollin''s better than pitchin' wi'
superfeecial cracks in the tail-shaft. Calder knows that much,' I said.

"'It's ill wark retreevin' steamers this weather,' said Bell. His beard
and whiskers were frozen to his oilskin, an' the spray was white on the
weather side of him. Pairfect North Atlantic winter weather!

"One by one the sea raxed away our three boats, an' the davits were
crumpled like ram's horns.

"'Yon's bad,' said Bell, at the last. 'Ye canna pass a hawser wi'oot a
boat.' Bell was a vara judeecious man--for an Aberdonian.

"I'm not one that fashes himself for eventualities outside the
engine-room, so I e'en slipped down betwixt waves to see how the Kite
fared. Man, she's the best geared boat of her class that ever left
Clyde! Kinloch, my second, knew her as well as I did. I found him dryin'
his socks on the main-steam, an' combin' his whiskers wi' the comb Janet
gied me last year, for the warld an' a' as though we were in port. I
tried the feed, speered into the stoke-hole, thumbed all bearin's, spat
on the thrust for luck, gied 'em my blessin', an' took Kinloch's socks
before I went up to the bridge again.

"Then Bell handed me the wheel, an' went below to warm himself. When he
came up my gloves were frozen to the spokes an' the ice clicked over my
eyelids. Pairfect North Atlantic winter weather, as I was sayin'.

"The gale blew out by night, but we lay in smotherin' cross-seas that
made the auld Kite chatter from stem to stern. I slowed to thirty-four,
I mind--no, thirty-seven. There was a long swell the morn, an' the
Grotkau was headin' into it west awa'.

"'She'll win to Rio yet, tail-shaft or no tail-shaft,' says Bell.

"'Last night shook her,' I said. 'She'll jar it off yet, mark my word.'

"We were then, maybe, a hunder and fifty mile westsou'west o' Slyne
Head, by dead reckonin'. Next day we made a hunder an' thirty--ye'll
note we were not racin-boats--an' the day after a hunder an' sixty-one,
an' that made us, we'll say, Eighteen an' a bittock west, an' maybe
Fifty-one an' a bittock north, crossin' all the North Atlantic liner
lanes on the long slant, always in sight o' the Grotkau, creepin' up by
night and fallin' awa' by day. After the gale it was cold weather wi'
dark nights.

"I was in the engine-room on Friday night, just before the middle watch,
when Bell whustled down the tube: 'She's done it'; an' up I came.

"The Grotkau was just a fair distance south, an' one by one she ran up
the three red lights in a vertical line--the sign of a steamer not under
control.

"'Yon's a tow for us,' said Bell, lickin' his chops. 'She'll be worth
more than the Breslau. We'll go down to her, McPhee!'

"'Bide a while,' I said. 'The seas fair throng wi' ships here.'

"'Reason why,' said Bell. 'It's a fortune gaun beggin'. What d' ye
think, man?'

"'Gie her till daylight. She knows we're here. If Bannister needs help
he'll loose a rocket.'

"'Wha told ye Bannister's need? We'll ha' some rag-an'-bone tramp
snappin' her up under oor nose,' said he; an' he put the wheel over. We
were goin' slow.

"'Bannister wad like better to go home on a liner an' eat in the
saloon. Mind ye what they said o' Holdock & Steiner's food that night
at Radley's? Keep her awa', man--keep her awa'. A tow's a tow, but a
derelict's big salvage.'

"'E-eh! 'said Bell. 'Yon's an inshot o' yours, Mac. I love ye like a
brother. We'll bide whaur we are till daylight'; an' he kept her awa'.

"Syne up went a rocket forward, an' twa on the bridge, an' a blue light
aft. Syne a tar-barrel forward again.

"'She's sinkin',' said Bell. 'It's all gaun, an' I'll get no more than a
pair o' night-glasses for pickin' up young Bannister--the fool!'

"' Fair an' soft again,' I said. 'She's signallin' to the south of us.
Bannister knows as well as I that one rocket would bring the Breslau.
He'll no be wastin' fireworks for nothin'. Hear her ca'!'

"The Grotkau whustled an' whustled for five minutes, an' then there were
more fireworks--a regular exhibeetion.

"'That's no for men in the regular trade,' says Bell. 'Ye're right,
Mac. That's for a cuddy full o' passengers.' He blinked through the
night-glasses when it lay a bit thick to southward.

"'What d' ye make of it?' I said.

"'Liner,' he says. 'Yon's her rocket. Ou, ay; they've waukened the
gold-strapped skipper, an'--noo they've waukened the passengers. They're
turnin' on the electrics, cabin by cabin. Yon's anither rocket! They're
comin' up to help the perishin' in deep watters.'

"'Gie me the glass,' I said. But Bell danced on the bridge, clean
dementit. 'Mails-mails-mails!' said he. 'Under contract wi' the
Government for the due conveyance o' the mails; an' as such, Mac, yell
note, she may rescue life at sea, but she canna tow!--she canna tow!
Yon's her night-signal. She'll be up in half an hour!'

"'Gowk!' I said, 'an' we blazin' here wi' all oor lights. Oh, Bell,
ye're a fool!'

"He tumbled off the bridge forward, an' I tumbled aft, an' before ye
could wink our lights were oot, the engine-room hatch was covered, an'
we lay pitch-dark, watchin' the lights o' the liner come up that the
Grotkau'd been signallin' to. Twenty knot an hour she came, every cabin
lighted, an' her boats swung awa'. It was grandly done, an' in the
inside of an hour. She stopped like Mrs. Holdock's machine; down went
the gangway, down went the boats, an' in ten minutes we heard the
passengers cheerin', an' awa' she fled.

"'They'll tell o' this all the days they live,' said Bell. 'A rescue at
sea by night, as pretty as a play. Young Bannister an' Calder will be
drinkin' in the saloon, an' six months hence the Board o' Trade 'll gie
the skipper a pair o' binoculars. It's vara philanthropic all round.'

"We'll lay by till day--ye may think we waited for it wi' sore eyes an'
there sat the Grotkau, her nose a bit cocked, just leerin' at us. She
looked paifectly ridiculous.

"'She'll be fillin' aft,' says Bell; 'for why is she down by the stern?
The tail-shaft's punched a hole in her, an'--we 've no boats. There's
three hunder thousand pound sterlin', at a conservative estimate,
droonin' before our eyes. What's to do?' An' his bearin's got hot again
in a minute: he was an incontinent man.

"'Run her as near as ye daur,' I said. 'Gie me a jacket an' a lifeline,
an' I'll swum for it.' There was a bit lump of a sea, an' it was cold
in the wind--vara cold; but they'd gone overside like passengers, young
Bannister an' Calder an' a', leaving the gangway down on the lee-side.
It would ha' been a flyin' in the face o' manifest Providence to
overlook the invitation. We were within fifty yards o' her while Kinloch
was garmin' me all over wi' oil behind the galley; an' as we ran past
I went outboard for the salvage o' three hunder thousand pound. Man, it
was perishin' cold, but I'd done my job judgmatically, an' came scrapin'
all along her side slap on to the lower gratin' o' the gangway. No one
more astonished than me, I assure ye. Before I'd caught my breath I'd
skinned both my knees on the gratin', an' was climbin' up before she
rolled again. "Wonderful, though!" said Felix. "But I have also done
quite the man to cheat? How can I protect him devout? Saget himself,
Hunter, is it not to tempt the gallows, if I did not confess who I
am?" "Oh, like you may have such scruples, my dear boy!" replied the
student. "After your role as your masterfully played! No, it
allowed you not frightened, this is nothing more than lawful
defense.

Has he committed the sacrilege, a respected woman schändlicherweise from
across the street to try to lead, and your wäret not been who knows how
it comes to the life of the Countess stands? No, you have not done
wrong, incidentally, I believe he is in the courts is a stone in the
board to win, when he, the head of this rabble, extradite himself. "This
latter idea comforted the young goldsmith. Communicative moves yet again
banger concern about the success of the plan went through the next few
hours. It was already dark, as the captain at a moment came into the hut,
a bundle of clothes lay down and said: "Madam Countess in order
to facilitate our escape, you must need these men to create clothes.

Machet you ready! In an hour, we are the marching on. "After these words
he left the prison, and the hunters had trouble not laughing too
loud.

"That would be the second panel"> he cried, "and I wanted to swear that
you are still better than the first!" She opened the bundle and found
a nice dress hunting with all accessories, the excellent Felix watched.
After he is prepared, the hunters wanted the dress of the countess in
a corner of the hut throw, but Felix was not he put them into a
small bundle, and said that he wanted to ask the countess, to give
it to him, and they then his whole life to the memory of these
strange days aufbewahren.

Finally came the captain.

He was fully armed and brought the rifle to the hunter, which he
declined, and a powder horn.

Even the students, he gave a shotgun, and he gave Felix a deer trap,
asking him to the case of necessity umzuhängen.

It was fortunate for the three that it was very dark because light had
the shining eyes, which Felix received this weapon, the robber's true
status may betray. When she gently out of the lodge were taken, said the
hunter, that the ordinary post to the hut this was not occupied.

Thus it was possible that they go unnoticed on the huts were able to
sneak past, but the captain was not the usual path, from the gorge in
the forest hinausführte, but he was approaching a cliff, the whole
vertical and, as it seemed inaccessible lay before them.

When they arrived, the captain made on a knitting head carefully
on the rock was herabgespannt.

He threw his rifle on his back and climbed hinan first, then he
called on the Countess to follow him, and offered her hand to help,
the hunter went up last.

Behind this rock showed a footpath, which they of action and promptly
went forward. "This footpath," said the captain, "leads to the
Aschaffenburger street.

Is where we want to go, for I have just heard that your husband,
the Count , is currently present there.

"Silently they moved on, always ahead of the robbers, the other
three close behind him.

After three hours they were on, the captain invited Felix to get on a
log to put to rest.

He took bread, a bottle with old wine, and offered it to the weary. "I
think we are before one hours passes, the Kordon encountered by the
military through the forest has withdrawn.

In this case, I ask you, the leader of the soldiers to talk and
good treatment for me to ask."

Felix also said that, although he left the use of low success
promised.

They rested for half an hour and then broke. You want about one hour
to go and have approached the road, the day began to heraufzukommen,
and the dusk is already widespread in the forest, when suddenly her
steps by a loud: "Stop!

Is!" were tied. They did, and five soldiers moved against them before
and they did, they would have to follow before the Major commanding
about their journey of identity.

As they are still about fifty steps were gone, they saw the left and
right in the bushes flash guns, a large crowd filled the forest seemed
to have. The Major was sitting with several other officers and men under
an oak. When the prisoners were brought before him and he just wanted
to start, to examine the "Where" and "Where," one of the men jumped
up and cried: "My God, what do I see?

That is Gottfried, our hunters! "" Yes, Mr. Amtmann! " replied the hunter
with joyful voice, "I am, and wonderfully rescued from the hands of the
poor rabble."

The officers surprised him here, but the hunter asked the Major and
Amtmann, with him on the side to kick, and told in a few words, as they
have been saved and who the third was what saved him and escorted the
young goldsmith. pleased about this news, the Major took his measures
immediately, the key to transporting prisoners to leave, the young
goldsmith, but he to his comrades, presented him as the lad heldenmütigen
before the countess through his courage and presence of mind had saved,
and all shook hands joyfully Felix, praised him and could not be fed
to him by the hunters and their fates to tell leave. However, it was
totally become days. The Major decided to exempt itself up into
the city to monitor, he went with them and the Amtmann of the
Countess in the next village, where his car was there and had to Felix
with him into the carriage set, the hunters, the student of Amtmann and
many other people rode before and behind them, and so they moved in
the triumph of the city. Like a wildfire was the rumor of the raid in
the Forest Tavern, by the sacrifice of the young worker in the gold area,
and there was now rapidly as the saga of his liberation from mouth to
mouth. It was therefore not surprising that in the city, where they went,
the streets crowded of people standing, the young heroes wanted to
watch. Everything was forced to, as the car slowly hereinfuhr. "That's
him," cried she, "you see him there in the car next to the officer! Long
live the brave goldsmith boy!" And a tausendstimmiges "High!" filled the
air. Felix was embarrassed, touched by the roaring delight of the
crowd. But still a stirring sight of which he stood on the City
Hall before. A man of middle age, dressed in rich, received him at the
stairs and hugged him with tears in his eyes. "How can I repay thee, my
son!" he cried. "You have given me a lot when I was close to it, infinitely
more to lose! You have my wife, my children rescued the mother, because
her life would have the delicate horror of such a captive does not
endure." It was the husband of the countess, who spoke these words. As
much as Felix liked to ruffle a reward for his sacrifice to be
determined, it seemed inexorably Count insist to want to. There was the
lad the unfortunate fate of captain Robbers On; he told how he saved
him, rescue like this actually the Countess have applied. The count,
not stirred both by the action of the captain as by the new evidence
of a noble altruism, Felix the election by his Please test, promised
that his own to do in order to save the robbers. Still on the same day
but led the Count , accompanied by the brave hunters, the young goldsmith
after his palace, where the Countess, still worried about the fate
of the young man who sacrificed for them, longing to messages waiting.
Anyone who describes her joy when her husband, the rescuer's hand,
stepped into her room? She found no end, to question him, to thank him,
they had brought their children and showed them the magnanimous
young man, which her mother owe so much infinity, and the kids took
his hands and the delicate sense of their child's gratitude, their
insurance that he had them by the father and mother all over the
world the love that he had the best compensation for some grief,
for the sleepless nights in the hut of the robbers.

When the first moments of joyful reunion was over, the Countess beckoned
to a servant which soon afterwards those clothes and the well-known
Ränzchen herbeibrachte which Felix the Countess in the forest inn had
left. "Here is everything," she said with a gracious smile, "what you
me in those awful moments where it is the magic, so you've wrapped me
to my pursuer with blindness to beat. It is to serve you again, but
wants I will propose that these dresses, which I keep a memory of you
want me to leave, and in exchange for the sum to which the robbers to
ransom for me some. "Felix was shocked about the size of this gift, his
noble spirit ruffled to a wage for it, which he voluntarily did. "Madam,"
said he moved, "I can not accept. The clothes should be your how your
befehlet it, but the amount of your say, I can not answer. But because
I know that your me through anything wollet reward, so get me your grace
instead of other wages, and should in case I come to need your help
so that you can expect that I will ask you. "Even long did it in
the young man, but nothing could change his mind.

The countess and her husband finally gave in and wanted to have the
servant of the clothes and the Ränzchen away again, as Felix in the
jewelery reminded that he in joyous feeling of so many scenes had entirely
forgotten. "Stop!" he cried. "Just something you have to me from my
Ränzchen to allow, madam, the rest is completely and totally Yours."
Toggles wish, "said she, "although I like everything about your mind
would be so only fear what your likely not do wollet!

But if one may ask, what are you so very important that you are not
leaving me may understand?

"The young man had his words during this Ränzchen opened a box of red
Saffian removed."

What is my, your everything könnet have, "he replied smiling," but this
is one of my dear wife godfather, I've made it yourself and it must
bring. There is a jewelry, madam, "he continued, he opened the box and
you hinbot" a jewel, in which I myself have tried. "She took the box,
but after they barely thrown a look she affected back." How? These
stones, "she cried." And for your sponsor, they are determined, you say?
"" Yes, "answered Felix," my wife gave me the godfather stones
cleverly, I have taken and I'm in the way they themselves bring about.
"Stirred saw him at the Countess; penetrated tears from her eyes."

So are you Felix Perner from Nuremberg? "she cried." Yes!

But how do you know my name so quickly? "Asked the young man and looked
at them aghast." Oh, wonderful coincidence of the sky, "said she moved
to her astonished husband."

This is Felix, our patch, the son of our Chamber Sabine ! Felix! I am
so, you wanted to come, so you have your godfather saved without
knowing it. "" How?

Be the countess because your Sandau, so much to me and my mother
done?

And this is the castle Mayenburg where I wanted to walk? How I thank
the kind fate that is so wonderful with me, you could meet, so I
have you but by the act, albeit to a lesser extent, my great gratitude
can testify!

"" You have done more to me, "she answered, "than I ever could have
done to you, but as long as I live, I want to show you are looking
for, how infinitely much we owe to you all.

My husband will be your father, your brothers and sisters my children
and myself will be thy faithful mother, and this jewelry, which led
you to me in the hour of highest need, to be ornament will be my
best, because he is always on you and your magnanimity remember.

"Thus spoke the Countess, and kept his word. It supported the lucky Felix
on his walks plenty.

When he came back as a skilled worker in his art, she bought him a
house in Nuremberg, directed it completely, and not less jewelry
in its best rooms were beautiful pictures painted by the scenes in
the Forest Tavern and Felix 'life among the robbers imagined.

Felix lived there as a skilled worker of gold and the glory of his art
combined with the wonderful saga of heroism and his clients gave him
in the whole range.

Many strangers when they through the beautiful city of Nuremberg were
settled in the workshop of the renowned maestro Felix lead to see
him, to admire, probably a nice jewelery at his order.

The visits were pleasant to him but the hunters, the circle smith,
the student and the carter.

So often the latter of Wuerzburg after Fuerth drove, he spoke with Felix
On; the hunter brought him gifts nearly every year by the Countess, but
the circle smith was after he all countries umhergewandert was
settled at Champion Felix.

One day she also visited the student.

He was, however, an important man in the country has become, but
not ashamed, when Felix and the Masters Circle Schmiedgasse a dinner
to eat.

She remembers all the scenes the Forest Tavern, and the former student
told that he was the robber captain in Italy again, he had totally
improved and served as a brave soldier, the king of Naples.

Felix rejoiced when he heard this. Without this man, he would
perhaps not the dangerous situation there, but without him he would
not even hand out robbers can liberate. And so it happened that the
valiant master goldsmith only peaceful and friendly memories was when he
thought back to _das Tavern in Spessart_.

The legend of Wilhelm Hauff guldens deer in Upper Swabia is still today
the walls of a castle, which was once the stately setting of the area
was Hohenzollernstraße. It stands on a round, steep mountain, and
from their precipitous height and you can see far into the country
freely. So far, much further than this fortress around the country can
see, was the sex of the brave Zollern feared, and knew their names
and honored in all German lands.

Now lived many hundred years before, I believe that gunpowder was
not even invented, on a tariff of these Festivals, the nature of
a strange man was.

You could not say that he is hard pressed his subjects or with its
neighbors would have lived in the feud, but nobody dared him on the
way if his dark eyes, his forehead and his Krausen monosyllabic,
morose nature.

There were few people other than the castle servants who had ever heard
speak properly like other people, because when he rode through the valley,
met him a cap and quickly picked up and advancing is said: "Good evening,
Mr. Graf, today it's nice weather, "he replied as" nonsense ", or"
knows ".

Had a slightly but not quite done for him or his horse, he met a
farmer in Hohlweg with the cart, that he on his rap is not fast enough
vorüberkommen could then vented his Furor in a thunder of curses,
but one has never heard that he is on such occasions a farmer would
have been beaten.

In the area but called it "the bad weather of Zollern." "The bad weather
of Zollern" had a woman who the opponent and so he gently and kindly,
was like a Maitag. Often, she had people who through their hard
speeches Eheherr had offended by their kind words and kind eyes again
reconciled with him, the poor, but they did good, where they could,
and did not bore, even in hot summer or in the terrible snowstorm the
steep mountain herabzugehen to poor people or sick children to visit.
Met her in such ways the count, he said sullenly: "knows nonsense." Many
other women have this sullen being intimidated or discouraged, one would
have thought to myself what the poor people, if my Lord for nonsense
stops, the other would perhaps from pride or resentment against a
love so morose husband allow to cool, but not so for Mrs Hedwig
Zollern.

The loved him still, looking with her beautiful white hand the folds of
his brown forehead to emphasize and loved and honored him, but after a
year and a day the sky is a young Gräflein brought to Angebinde,
she loved her husband no less, by it's still all Söhnlein obligations
may show a tender mother.

Three years passed and the count of Zollern saw his son only after
all tables Sundays, where he received from the nurse was dargereicht.

He looked at him then unrelated, grumbled something in his beard, and
the nurse gave him back. But the little "father" could say, the count
gave the nurse a guilders - the child he is not happy face. On his third
birthday, however, had the count's son first Höslein attract and splendidly
dressed him in velvet and silk; Then he ordered his Centimes and another
beautiful horse vorzufahren, took the kids on the arm and started with
clangy spores down the spiral staircase. Mrs Hedwig astonished when she
saw this.

She was otherwise normal, not to ask where and when home, when he
ride, but this opened up the concern for their child to her lips.

"Wollet your riding, Mr. Earl?" she said .-- He gave no answer. "What
for the kids?" she asked further. "Kuno will walk with me."

"white," replied the bad weather of Zollern and went further, and
as he stood in the yard, he took the boy with a Füßlein, lifted him
quickly into the saddle, tied him with a cloth firmly, swung himself
to the rap and trotted out to the castle gates by giving the reins
of his steeds Söhnlein took in hand.

The kids at first it seemed great pleasure to be granted, with the
father mountain hinabzureiten. He knocked in his hands, he laughed and
shook his Rösslein to the manes, so it should run faster, and the count
was his pleasure, also called several times: "can be a brave lad
be," But when they arrived in the plane were and the count instead of
trotting step anschlug since passed the Small senses, he begged very
humble beginning, his father wants to ride slower, but as it went
faster and faster and the fierce wind of the poor Kuno almost took
the breath, as he began still crying, was always impatient and
cried at the end of his might. "white already, nonsense!"

    Now his father began to.

"Howls the boy on the first ride, silent or -" But the moment when he
was with a curse Söhnlein cheer wanted bäumte his horse, the reins of
the others accounted for his hand, he worked away, master of his animal
to be , and when he is brought to rest and be frightened after his umsah
child, he saw his horse, as is unmarried and without the small tab of
the castle suppliers. Such a hard, dark man of the Count of Zollern else
was so overcome but this sight his heart, he thought otherwise when
his child lay smashed on the way, he raufte the beard and wailed. But
nowhere, so far he zurückritt, he saw a trace of the boy, he already
stated that the horse had become afraid of him into a ditch hurled
who stood beside the road.

As he heard from a child's voice behind him call his name, and when
he turned in flight - see, there sat an old woman near the street
under a tree and cradled the little ones on their knees.

"How come you to the boys, old witch? " cried the count in great
anger, "immediately bring him to me" "Not so fast, not so fast,
your grace!" laughed the old, ugly woman. "Could also be a disaster
otherwise take pride on your horse! How I came to the Junkerlein,
you ask? Well, his horse went through, and he was only a feet tied, and
hair almost touched the ground, so I caught him in my apron. "" white
already!

" cried the Lord of Zollern unmutes, "give it her now, I can not
very well off, the horse is wild and could beat him."
Wilton had more than once asked me to Holt Hangars, for the purpose of
showing how well the new life fitted him, and each time I had declared
it creaseless. His third invitation was more informal than the others,
and he hinted of some matter in which he was anxious for my sympathy or
counsel, or both. There is room for an infinity of mistakes when a man
begins to take liberties with his nationality; and I went down expecting
things. A seven-foot dog-cart and a groom in the black Holt Hangars
livery met me at Amberley Royal. At Holt Hangars I was received by
a person of elegance and true reserve, and piloted to my luxurious
chamber. There were no other guests in the house, and this set me
thinking.

Wilton came into my room about half an hour before dinner, and
though his face was masked with a drop-curtain of highly embroidered
indifference, I could see that he was not at ease. In time, for he
was then almost as difficult to move as one of my own countrymen, I
extracted the tale--simple in its extravagance, extravagant in its
simplicity. It seemed that Hackman of the British Museum had been
staying with him about ten days before, boasting of scarabs. Hackman has
a way of carrying really priceless antiquities on his tie-ring and in
his trouser pockets. Apparently, he had intercepted something on its way
to the Boulak Museum which, he said, was "a genuine Amen-Hotepa queen's
scarab of the Fourth Dynasty." Now Wilton had bought from Cassavetti,
whose reputation is not above suspicion, a scarab of much the same
scarabeousness, and had left it in his London chambers. Hackman at a
venture, but knowing Cassavetti, pronounced it an imposition. There was
long discussion--savant versus millionaire, one saying: "ut I know it
cannot be"; and the other: "But I can and will prove it." Wilton found
it necessary for his soul's satisfaction to go up to town, then and
there,--a forty-mile run,--and bring back the scarab before dinner. It
was at this point that he began to cut corners with disastrous results.
Amberley Royal station being five miles away, and putting in of horses a
matter of time, Wilton had told Howard, the immaculate butler, to signal
the next train to stop; and Howard, who was more of a man of resource
than his master gave him credit for, had, with the red flag of the
ninth hole of the links which crossed the bottom of the lawn, signalled
vehemently to the first down-train; and it had stopped. Here Wilton's
account became confused. He attempted, it seems, to get into that
highly indignant express, but a guard restrained him with more or
less force--hauled him, in fact, backyards from the window of a locked
carriage. Wilton must have struck the gravel with some vehemence, for
the consequences, he admitted, were a free fight on the line in which he
lost his hat, and was at last dragged into the guard's van and set down
breathless.

He had pressed money upon the man, and very foolishly had explained
everything but his name. This he clung to, for he had a vision of
tall head-lines in the New York papers, and well knew no son of Merton
Sargent could expect mercy that side the water. The guard, to Wilton's
amazement, refused the money on the grounds that this was a matter
for the Company to attend to. Wilton insisted on his incognito, and,
therefore, found two policemen waiting for him at St. Botolph terminus.
When he expressed a wish to buy a new hat and telegraph to his friends,
both policemen with one voice warned him that whatever he said would
be used as evidence against him; and this had impressed Wilton
tremendously.

"They were so infernally polite," he said. "If they had clubbed me I
wouldn't have cared; but it was, 'Step this way, sir,' and, 'Up those
stairs, please, sir,' till they jailed me--jailed me like a common
drunk, and I had to stay in a filthy little cubby-hole of a cell all
night."

"That comes of not giving your name and not wiring your lawyer," I
replied. "What did you get?"

"Forty shillings, or a month," said Wilton, promptly,--"next morning
bright and early. They were working us off, three a minute. A girl in
a pink hat--she was brought in at three in the morning--got ten days. I
suppose I was lucky. I must have knocked his senses out of the guard. He
told the old duck on the bench that I had told him I was a sergeant in
the army, and that I was gathering beetles on the track. That comes of
trying to explain to an Englishman."

"And you?"

"Oh, I said nothing. I wanted to get out. I paid my fine, and bought a
new hat, and came up here before noon next morning. There were a lot of
people in the house, and I told 'em I'd been unavoidably detained, and
then they began to recollect engagements elsewhere. Hackman must have
seen the fight on the track and made a story of it. I suppose they
thought it was distinctly American--confound 'em! It's the only time in
my life that I've ever flagged a train, and I wouldn't have done it but
for that scarab. 'T wouldn't hurt their old trains to be held up once in
a while."

"Well, it's all over now," I said, choking a little. "And your name
didn't get into the papers. It is rather transatlantic when you come to
think of it."

"Over!" Wilton grunted savagely. "It's only just begun. That trouble
with the guard was just common, ordinary assault--merely a little
criminal business. The flagging of the train is civil, infernally
civil,--and means something quite different. They're after me for that
now."

"Who?"

"The Great Buchonian. There was a man in court watching the case on
behalf of the Company. I gave him my name in a quiet corner before
I bought my hat, and--come to dinner now; I'll show you the results
afterwards." The telling of his wrongs had worked Wilton Sargent into a
very fine temper, and I do not think that my conversation soothed him.
In the course of the dinner, prompted by a devil of pure mischief, I
dwelt with loving insistence on certain smells and sounds of New York
which go straight to the heart of the native in foreign parts; and
Wilton began to ask many questions about his associates aforetime--men
of the New York Yacht Club, Storm King, or the Restigouche, owners of
rivers, ranches, and shipping in their playtime, lords of railways,
kerosene, wheat, and cattle in their offices. When the green mint came,
I gave him a peculiarly oily and atrocious cigar, of the brand they sell
in the tessellated, electric-lighted, with expensive-pictures of the
nude adorned bar of the Pandemonium, and Wilton chewed the end for
several minutes ere he lit it. The butler left us alone, and the chimney
of the oak-panelled diningroom began to smoke.

"That's another!" said he, poking the fire savagely, and I knew what he
meant. One cannot put steam-heat in houses where Queen Elizabeth slept.
The steady beat of a night-mail, whirling down the valley, recalled me
to business. "What about the Great Buchonian?" I said.

"Come into my study. That's all--as yet."

It was a pile of Seidlitz-powders-coloured correspondence, perhaps nine
inches high, and it looked very businesslike.

"You can go through it," said Wilton. "Now I could take a chair and a
red flag and go into Hyde Park and say the most atrocious things about
your Queen, and preach anarchy and all that, y' know, till I was hoarse,
and no one would take any notice. The Police damn 'em!--would protect
me if I got into trouble. But for a little thing like flagging a dirty
little sawed-off train,--running through my own grounds, too,--I get
the whole British Constitution down on me as if I sold bombs. I don't
understand it."

"No more does the Great Buchonian--apparently." I was turning over the
letters. "Here's the traffic superintendent writing that it's utterly
incomprehensible that any man should... Good heavens, Wilton, you have
done it!" I giggled, as I read on.

"What's funny now?" said my host.

"It seems that you, or Howard for you, stopped the three-forty Northern
down."

"I ought to know that! They all had their knife into me, from the
engine-driver up."

"But it's the three-forty--the Induna--surely you've heard of the Great
Buchonian's Induna!"

"How the deuce am I to know one train from another? They come along
about every two minutes."

"Quite so. But this happens to be the Induna--the one train of the whole
line. She's timed for fifty-seven miles an hour. She was put on early in
the Sixties, and she has never been stopped--"

"I know! Since William the Conqueror came over, or King Charles hid in
her smoke-stack. You're as bad as the rest of these Britishers. If she's
been run all that while, it's time she was flagged once or twice."

The American was beginning to ooze out all over Wilton, and his
small-boned hands were moving restlessly.

"Suppose you flagged the Empire State Express, or the Western Cyclone?"

"Suppose I did. I know Otis Harvey--or used to. I'd send him a wire, and
he'd understand it was a ground-hog case with me. That's exactly what I
told this British fossil company here."

"Have you been answering their letters without legal advice, then?"

"Of course I have."

"Oh, my Sainted Country! Go ahead, Wilton."

"I wrote 'em that I'd be very happy to see their president and explain
to him in three words all about it; but that wouldn't do. 'Seems their
president must be a god. He was too busy, and--well, you can read
for yourself--they wanted explanations. The stationmaster at Amberley
Royal--and he grovels before me, as a rule--wanted an explanation, and
quick, too. The head sachem at St. Botolph's wanted three or four, and
the Lord High Mukkamuk that oils the locomotives wanted one every fine
day. I told 'em--I've told hem about fifty times--I stopped their holy
and sacred train because I wanted to board her. Did they think I wanted
to feel her pulse?"

"You didn't say that?"

"Feel her pulse'? Of course not."

"No. 'Board her.'"

"What else could I say?"

"My dear Wilton, what is the use of Mrs. Sherborne, and the Clays, and
all that lot working over you for four years to make an Englishman
out of you, if the very first time you're rattled you go back to the
vernacular?"

"I'm through with Mrs. Sherborne and the rest of the crowd. America's
good enough for me. What ought I to have said? 'Please,' or 'thanks
awf'ly or how?"

There was no chance now of mistaking the man's nationality. Speech,
gesture, and step, so carefully drilled into him, had gone away with
the borrowed mask of indifference. It was a lawful son of the Youngest
People, whose predecessors were the Red Indian. His voice had risen to
the high, throaty crow of his breed when they labour under excitement.
His close-set eyes showed by turns unnecessary fear, annoyance beyond
reason, rapid and purposeless flights of thought, the child's lust for
immediate revenge, and the child's pathetic bewilderment, who knocks his
head against the bad, wicked table. And on the other side, I knew, stood
the Company, as unable as Wilton to understand.

"And I could buy their old road three times over," he muttered, playing
with a paper-knife, and moving restlessly to and fro.

"You didn't tell 'em that, I hope!"

There was no answer; but as I went through the letters, I felt that
Wilton must have told them many surprising things. The Great Buchonian
had first asked for an explanation of the stoppage of their Induna, and
had found a certain levity in the explanation tendered. It then advised
"Mr. W. Sargent" to refer his solicitor to their solicitor, or whatever
the legal phrase is.

"And you didn't?" I said, looking up.

"No. They were treating me exactly as if I had been a kid playing on the
cable-tracks. There was not the least necessity for any solicitor. Five
minutes' quiet talk would have settled everything."

I returned to the correspondence. The Great Buchonian regretted that,
owing to pressure of business, none of their directors could accept
Mr. W. Sargent's invitation to run down and discuss the difficulty. The
Great Buchonian was careful to point out that no animus underlay their
action, nor was money their object. Their duty was to protect the
interests of their line, and these interests could not be protected if
a precedent were established whereby any of the Queen's subjects could
stop a train in mid-career. Again (this was another branch of
the correspondence, not more than five heads of departments being
concerned), the Company admitted that there was some reasonable doubt as
to the duties of express-trains in all crises, and the matter was
open to settlement by process of law till an authoritative ruling was
obtained--from the House of Lords, if necessary.

"That broke me all up," said Wilton, who was reading over my shoulder.
"I knew I'd struck the British Constitution at last. The House of
Lords--my Lord! And, anyway, I'm not one of the Queen's subjects."

"Why, I had a notion that you'd got yourself naturalised."

Wilton blushed hotly as he explained that very many things must happen
to the British Constitution ere he took out his papers.

"How does it all strike you?" he said. "Isn't the Great Buchonian
crazy?"

"I don't know. You've done something that no one ever thought of doing
before, and the Company don't know what to make of it. I see they offer
to send down their solicitor and another official of the Company to talk
things over informally. Then here's another letter suggesting that you
put up a fourteen-foot wall, crowned with bottle-glass, at the bottom of
the garden."

"Talk of British insolence! The man who recommends that (he's another
bloated functionary) says that I shall 'derive great pleasure from
watching the wall going up day by day'! Did you ever dream of such gall?
I've offered 'em money enough to buy a new set of cars and pension the
driver for three generations; but that doesn't seem to be what they
want. They expect me to go to the House of Lords and get a ruling, and
build walls between times. Are they all stark, raving mad? One 'ud think
I made a profession of flagging trains. How in Tophet was I to know
their old Induna from a waytrain? I took the first that came along, and
I've been jailed and fined for that once already."

"That was for slugging the guard."

"He had no right to haul me out when I was half-way through a window."

"What are you going to do about it?"

"Their lawyer and the other official (can't they trust their men unless
they send 'em in pairs?) are coming hereto-night. I told 'em I was
busy, as a rule, till after dinner, but they might send along the entire
directorate if it eased 'em any."

Now, after-dinner visiting, for business or pleasure, is the custom of
the smaller American town, and not that of England, where the end of the
day is sacred to the owner, not the public. Verily, Wilton Sargent had
hoisted the striped flag of rebellion!

"Isn't it time that the humour of the situation began to strike you,
Wilton?" I asked.

"Where's the humour of baiting an American citizen just because he
happens to be a millionaire--poor devil." He was silent for a little
time, and then went on: "Of course. Now I see!" He spun round and faced
me excitedly. "It's as plain as mud. These ducks are laying their pipes
to skin me."

"They say explicitly they don't want money!"

"That's all a blind. So's their addressing me as W. Sargent. They know
well enough who I am. They know I'm the old man's son. Why didn't I
think of that before?"

"One minute, Wilton. If you climbed to the top of the dome of St. Paul's
and offered a reward to any Englishman who could tell you who or what
Merton Sargent had been, there wouldn't be twenty men in all London to
claim it."

"That's their insular provincialism, then. I don't care a cent. The
old man would have wrecked the Great Buchonian before breakfast for a
pipe-opener. My God, I'll do it in dead earnest! I'll show 'em that
they can't bulldoze a foreigner for flagging one of their little tinpot
trains, and--I've spent fifty thousand a year here, at least, for the
last four years."

I was glad I was not his lawyer. I re-read the correspondence, notably
the letter which recommended him--almost tenderly, I fancied--to build a
fourteen-foot brick wall at the end of his garden, and half-way through
it a thought struck me which filled me with pure joy.

The footman ushered in two men, frock-coated, grey-trousered,
smooth-shaven, heavy of speech and gait. It was nearly nine o'clock, but
they looked as newly come from a bath. I could not understand why
the elder and taller of the pair glanced at me as though we had an
understanding; nor why he shook hands with an unEnglish warmth.

"This simplifies the situation," he said in an undertone, and, as I
stared, he whispered to his companion: "I fear I shall be of very little
service at present. Perhaps Mr. Folsom had better talk over the affair
with Mr. Sargent."

"That is what I am here for," said Wilton.

The man of law smiled pleasantly, and said that he saw no reason why the
difficulty should not be arranged in two minutes' quiet talk. His air,
as he sat down opposite Wilton, was soothing to the last degree, and his
companion drew me up-stage. The mystery was deepening, but I followed
meekly, and heard Wilton say, with an uneasy laugh:

"I've had insomnia over this affair, Mr. Folsom. Let's settle it one way
or the other, for heaven's sake!"

"Ah! Has he suffered much from this lately?" said my man, with a
preliminary cough.

"I really can't say," I replied.

"Then I suppose you have only lately taken charge here?"

"I came this evening. I am not exactly in charge of anything."

"I see. Merely to observe the course of events in case--" He nodded.

"Exactly." Observation, after all, is my trade.

He coughed again slightly, and came to business.

"Now,--I am asking solely for information's sake,--do you find the
delusions persistent?"

"Which delusions?"

"They are variable, then? That is distinctly curious, because--but do
I understand that the type of the delusion varies? For example, Mr.
Sargent believes that he can buy the Great Buchonian."

"Did he write you that?"

"He made the offer to the Company--on a half-sheet of note-paper. Now,
has he by chance gone to the other extreme, and believed that he is
in danger of becoming a pauper? The curious economy in the use of a
half-sheet of paper shows that some idea of that kind might have flashed
through his mind, and the two delusions can coexist, but it is not
common. As you must know, the delusion of vast wealth--the folly of
grandeurs, I believe our friends the French call it--is, as a rule,
persistent, to the exclusion of all others."

Then I heard Wilton's best English voice at the end of the study:

"My dear sir, I have explained twenty times already, I wanted to get
that scarab in time for dinner. Suppose you had left an important legal
document in the same way?"

"That touch of cunning is very significant," my
fellow-practitioner--since he insisted on it--muttered.

"I am very happy, of course, to meet you; but if you had only sent your
president down to dinner here, I could have settled the thing in half
a minute. Why, I could have bought the Buchonian from him while your
clerks were sending me this." Wilton dropped his hand heavily on the
blue-and-white correspondence, and the lawyer started.

"But, speaking frankly," the lawyer replied, "it is, if I may say so,
perfectly inconceivable, even in the case of the most important legal
documents, that any one should stop the three-forty express--the
Induna--Our Induna, my dear sir."

"Absolutely!" my companion echoed; then to me in a lower tone: "You
notice, again, the persistent delusion of wealth. I was called in when
he wrote us that. You can see it is utterly impossible for the Company
to continue to run their trains through the property of a man who may at
any moment fancy himself divinely commissioned to stop all traffic. If
he had only referred us to his lawyer--but, naturally, that he would not
do, under the circumstances. A pity--a great pity. He is so young. By
the way, it is curious, is it not, to note the absolute conviction in
the voice of those who are similarly afflicted,--heart-rending, I might
say, and the inability to follow a chain of connected thought."

"I can't see what you want," Wilton was saying to the lawyer.

"It need not be more than fourteen feet high--a really desirable
structure, and it would be possible to grow pear trees on the sunny
side." The lawyer was speaking in an unprofessional voice. "There are
few things pleasanter than to watch, so to say, one's own vine and fig
tree in full bearing. Consider the profit and amusement you would derive
from it. If you could see your way to doing this, we could arrange all
the details with your lawyer, and it is possible that the Company might
bear some of the cost. I have put the matter, I trust, in a nutshell. If
you, my dear sir, will interest yourself in building that wall, and will
kindly give us the name of your lawyers, I dare assure you that you will
hear no more from the Great Buchonian."

"But why am I to disfigure my lawn with a new brick wall?"

"Grey flint is extremely picturesque."

"Grey flint, then, if you put it that way. Why the dickens must I go
building towers of Babylon just because I have held up one of your
trains-once?"

"The expression he used in his third letter was that he wished to 'board
her,'" said my companion in my ear. "That was very curious--a marine
delusion impinging, as it were, upon a land one. What a marvellous world
he must move in--and will before the curtain falls. So young, too--so
very young!"

"Well, if you want the plain English of it, I'm damned if I go
wall-building to your orders. You can fight it all along the line, into
the House of Lords and out again, and get your rulings by the running
foot if you like," said Wilton, hotly. "Great heavens, man, I only did
it once!"

"We have at present no guarantee that you may not do it again; and, with
our traffic, we must, in justice to our passengers, demand some form of
guarantee. It must not serve as a precedent. All this might have been
saved if you had only referred us to your legal representative." The
lawyer looked appealingly around the room. The dead-lock was complete.

"Wilton," I asked, "may I try my hand now?"

"Anything you like," said Wilton. "It seems I can't talk English. I
won't build any wall, though." He threw himself back in his chair.

"Gentlemen," I said deliberately, for I perceived that the doctor's
mind would turn slowly, "Mr. Sargent has very large interests in the
chief railway systems of his own country."

"His own country?" said the lawyer.

"At that age?" said the doctor.

"Certainly. He inherited them from his father, Mr. Sargent, who was an
American."

"And proud of it," said Wilton, as though he had been a Western Senator
let loose on the Continent for the first time.

"My dear sir," said the lawyer, half rising, "why did you not
acquaint the Company with this fact--this vital fact--early in
our correspondence? We should have understood. We should have made
allowances."

"Allowances be damned. Am I a Red Indian or a lunatic?"

The two men looked guilty.

"If Mr. Sargent's friend had told us as much in the beginning," said the
doctor, very severely, "much might have been saved." Alas! I had made a
life's enemy of that doctor.

"I hadn't a chance," I replied. "Now, of course, you can see that a man
who owns several thousand miles of line, as Mr. Sargent does, would be
apt to treat railways a shade more casually than other people."

"Of course; of course. He is an American; that accounts. Still, it was
the Induna; but I can quite understand that the customs of our cousins
across the water differ in these particulars from ours. And do you
always stop trains in this way in the States, Mr. Sargent?"

"I should if occasion ever arose; but I've never had to yet. Are you
going to make an international complication of the business?"

"You need give yourself no further concern whatever in the matter. We
see that there is no likelihood of this action of yours establishing
a precedent, which was the only thing we were afraid of. Now that you
understand that we cannot reconcile our system to any sudden stoppages,
we feel quite sure that--"

"I sha'n't be staying long enough to flag another train," Wilton said
pensively.

"You are returning, then, to our fellow-kinsmen across the-ah-big pond,
you call it?"

"No, sir. The ocean--the North Atlantic Ocean. It's three thousand miles
broad, and three miles deep in places. I wish it were ten thousand."

"I am not so fond of sea-travel myself; but I think it is every
Englishman's duty once in his life to study the great branch of our
Anglo-Saxon race across the ocean," said the lawyer.

"If ever you come over, and care to flag any train on my system,
I'll--I'll see you through," said Wilton.

"Thank you--ah, thank you. You're very kind. I'm sure I should enjoy
myself immensely."

"We have overlooked the fact," the doctor whispered to me, "that your
friend proposed to buy the Great Buchonian."

"He is worth anything from twenty to thirty million dollars--four to
five million pounds," I answered, knowing that it would be hopeless to
explain.

"Really! That is enormous wealth. But the Great Buchonian is not in the
market."

"Perhaps he does not want to buy it now."

"It would be impossible under any circumstances," said the doctor.

"How characteristic!" murmured the lawyer, reviewing matters in his
mind. "I always understood from books that your countrymen were in a
hurry. And so you would have gone forty miles to town and back--before
dinner--to get a scarab? How intensely American! But you talk exactly
like an Englishman, Mr. Sargent."

"That is a fault that can be remedied. There's only one question I'd
like to ask you. You said it was inconceivable that any man should stop
a train on your road?"

"And so it is-absolutely inconceivable."

"Any sane man, that is?"

"That is what I meant, of course. I mean, with excep--"

"Thank you."

The two men departed. Wilton checked himself as he was about to fill a
pipe, took one of my cigars instead, and was silent for fifteen minutes.

Then said he: "Have you got a list of the Southampton sailings on you?"

Far away from the greystone wings, the dark cedars, the faultless gravel
drives, and the mint-sauce lawns of Holt Hangars runs a river called
the Hudson, whose unkempt banks are covered with the palaces of those
wealthy beyond the dreams of avarice. Here, where the hoot of the
Haverstraw brick-barge-tug answers the howl of the locomotive on either
shore, you shall find, with a complete installation of electric light,
nickel-plated binnacles, and a calliope attachment to her steam-whistle,
the twelve-hundred-ton ocean-going steam-yacht Columbia, lying at her
private pier, to take to his office, at an average speed of seventeen
knots an hour,--and the barges can look out for themselves,--Wilton
Sargent, American.


MY SUNDAY AT HOME


   If the Red Slayer think he slays,
     Or if the slain think he is slain,
   They know not well the subtle ways
      I keep and pass and turn again.
                                   EMERSON.

It was the unreproducible slid r, as he said this was his "fy-ist" visit
to England, that told me he was a New-Yorker from New York; and when, in
the course of our long, lazy journey westward from Waterloo, he enlarged
upon the beauties of his city, I, professing ignorance, said no word. He
had, amazed and delighted at the man's civility, given the London porter
a shilling for carrying his bag nearly fifty yards; he had thoroughly
investigated the first-class lavatory compartment, which the London and
Southwestern sometimes supply without extra charge; and now, half-awed,
half-contemptuous, but wholly interested, he looked out upon the ordered
English landscape wrapped in its Sunday peace, while I watched the
wonder grow upon his face. Why were the cars so short and stilted? Why
had every other freight-car a tarpaulin drawn over it? What wages would
an engineer get now? Where was the swarming population of England he
had read so much about? What was the rank of all those men on tricycles
along the roads? When were we due at Plymouth I told him all I knew,
and very much that I did not. He was going to Plymouth to assist in a
consultation upon a fellow-countryman who had retired to a place
called The Hoe--was that up-town or down-town--to recover from nervous
dyspepsia. Yes, he himself was a doctor by profession, and how any one
in England could retain any nervous disorder passed his comprehension.
Never had he dreamed of an atmosphere so soothing. Even the deep rumble
of London traffic was monastical by comparison with some cities he could
name; and the country--why, it was Paradise. A continuance of it, he
confessed, would drive him mad; but for a few months it was the most
sumptuous rest-cure in his knowledge.

"I'll come over every year after this," he said, in a burst of delight,
as we ran between two ten-foot hedges of pink and white may. "It's
seeing all the things I've ever read about. Of course it doesn't strike
you that way. I presume you belong here? What a finished land it is!
It's arrived. 'Must have been born this way. Now, where I used to
live--Hello I what's up?"

The train stopped in a blaze of sunshine at Framlynghame Admiral, which
is made up entirely of the name-board, two platforms, and an overhead
bridge, without even the usual siding. I had never known the slowest of
locals stop here before; but on Sunday all things are possible to the
London and Southwestern. One could hear the drone of conversation along
the carriages, and, scarcely less loud, the drone of the bumblebees in
the wallflowers up the bank. My companion thrust his head through the
window and sniffed luxuriously.

"Where are we now?" said he.

"In Wiltshire," said I.

"Ah! A man ought to be able to write novels with his left hand in a
country like this. Well, well! And so this is about Tess's country,
ain't it? I feel just as if I were in a book. Say, the conduc--the guard
has something on his mind. What's he getting at?"

The splendid badged and belted guard was striding up the platform at
the regulation official pace, and in the regulation official voice was
saying at each door:

"Has any gentleman here a bottle of medicine? A gentleman has taken a
bottle of poison (laudanum) by mistake."

Between each five paces he looked at an official telegram in his
hand, refreshed his memory, and said his say. The dreamy look on my
companion's face--he had gone far away with Tess--passed with the speed
of a snap-shutter. After the manner of his countrymen, he had risen to
the situation, jerked his bag down from the overhead rail, opened it,
and I heard the click of bottles. "Find out where the man is," he said
briefly. "I've got something here that will fix him--if he can swallow
still."

Swiftly I fled up the line of carriages in the wake of the guard. There
was clamour in a rear compartment--the voice of one bellowing to be let
out, and the feet of one who kicked. With the tail of my eye I saw
the New York doctor hastening thither, bearing in his hand a blue
and brimming glass from the lavatory compartment. The guard I found
scratching his head unofficially, by the engine, and murmuring: "Well, I
put a bottle of medicine off at Andover--I'm sure I did."

"Better say it again, any'ow'," said the driver. "Orders is orders. Say
it again."

Once more the guard paced back, I, anxious to attract his attention,
trotting at his heels.

"In a minute--in a minute, sir," he said, waving an arm capable of
starting all the traffic on the London and Southwestern Railway at a
wave. "Has any gentleman here got a bottle of medicine? A gentleman has
taken a bottle of poison (laudanum) by mistake."

"Where's the man?" I gasped.

"Woking. 'Ere's my orders." He showed me the telegram, on which were the
words to be said. "'E must have left 'is bottle in the train, an' took
another by mistake. 'E's been wirin' from Woking awful, an', now I
come to think of, it, I'm nearly sure I put a bottle of medicine off at
Andover."

"Then the man that took the poison isn't in the train?"

"Lord, no, sir. No one didn't take poison that way. 'E took it away
with 'im, in 'is 'ands. 'E's wirin' from Wokin'. My orders was to ask
everybody in the train, and I 'ave, an' we're four minutes late now. Are
you comin' on, sir? No? Right be'ind!"

There is nothing, unless, perhaps, the English language, more terrible
than the workings of an English railway-line. An instant before it
seemed as though we were going to spend all eternity at Framlynghame
Admiral, and now I was watching the tail of the train disappear round
the curve of the cutting.

But I was not alone. On the one bench of the down platform sat the
largest navvy I have ever seen in my life, softened and made affable
(for he smiled generously) with liquor. In his huge hands he nursed an
empty tumbler marked "L.S.W.R."--marked also, internally, with streaks
of blue-grey sediment. Before him, a hand on his shoulder, stood the
doctor, and as I came within ear-shot, this is what I heard him say:
"Just you hold on to your patience for a minute or two longer, and
you'll be as right as ever you were in your life. I'll stay with you
till you're better."

"Lord! I'm comfortable enough," said the navvy. "Never felt better in my
life."

Turning to me, the doctor lowered his voice. "He might have died while
that fool conduct-guard was saying his piece. I've fixed him, though.
The stuff's due in about five minutes, but there's a heap to him. I
don't see how we can make him take exercise."

For the moment I felt as though seven pounds of crushed ice had been
neatly applied in the form of a compress to my lower stomach.

"How--how did you manage it?" I gasped.

"I asked him if he'd have a drink. He was knocking spots out of the
car--strength of his constitution, I suppose. He said he'd go 'most
anywhere for a drink, so I lured onto the platform, and loaded him up.
'Cold-blooded people, you Britishers are. That train's gone, and no one
seemed to care a cent."

"We've missed it," I said.

He looked at me curiously.

"We'll get another before sundown, if that's your only trouble. Say,
porter, when's the next train down?"

"Seven forty-five," said the one porter, and passed out through the
wicket-gate into the landscape. It was then three-twenty of a hot and
sleepy afternoon. The station was absolutely deserted. The navvy had
closed his eyes, and now nodded.

"That's bad," said the doctor. "The man, I mean, not the train. We must
make him walk somehow--walk up and down."

Swiftly as might be, I explained the delicacy of the situation, and
the doctor from New York turned a full bronze-green. Then he swore
comprehensively at the entire fabric of our glorious Constitution,
cursing the English language, root, branch, and paradigm, through its
most obscure derivatives. His coat and bag lay on the bench next to the
sleeper. Thither he edged cautiously, and I saw treachery in his eye.

What devil of delay possessed him to slip on his spring overcoat, I
cannot tell. They say a slight noise rouses a sleeper more surely than
a heavy one, and scarcely had the doctor settled himself in his sleeves
than the giant waked and seized that silk-faced collar in a hot right
hand. There was rage in his face-rage and the realisation of new
emotions.

"I'm--I'm not so comfortable as I were," he said from the deeps of
his interior. "You'll wait along o' me, you will." He breathed heavily
through shut lips.

Now, if there was one thing more than another upon which the doctor
had dwelt in his conversation with me, it was upon the essential
law-abidingness, not to say gentleness, of his much-misrepresented
country. And yet (truly, it may have been no more than a button that
irked him) I saw his hand travel backwards to his right hip, clutch at
something, and come away empty.

"He won't kill you," I said. "He'll probably sue you in court, if I know
my own people. Better give him some money from time to time."

"If he keeps quiet till the stuff gets in its work," the doctor
answered, "I'm all right. If he doesn't... my name is Emory--Julian B.
Emory--193 'Steenth Street, corner of Madison and--"

"I feel worse than I've ever felt," said the navvy, with suddenness.
"What-did-you-give-me-the-drink-for?"

The matter seemed to be so purely personal that I withdrew to a
strategic position on the overhead bridge, and, abiding in the exact
centre, looked on from afar.

I could see the white road that ran across the shoulder of Salisbury
Plain, unshaded for mile after mile, and a dot in the middle distance,
the back of the one porter returning to Framlynghame Admiral, if such
a place existed, till seven forty-five. The bell of a church invisible
clanked softly. There was a rustle in the horse-chestnuts to the left of
the line, and the sound of sheep cropping close.

The peace of Nirvana lay upon the land, and, brooding in it, my elbow on
the warm iron girder of the footbridge (it is a forty-shilling fine
to cross by any other means), I perceived, as never before, how the
consequences of our acts run eternal through time and through space. If
we impinge never so slightly upon the life of a fellow-mortal, the touch
of our personality, like the ripple of a stone cast into a pond, widens
and widens in unending circles across the aeons, till the far-off
Gods themselves cannot say where action ceases. Also, it was I who had
silently set before the doctor the tumbler of the first-class lavatory
compartment now speeding Plymouthward. Yet I was, in spirit at least,
a million leagues removed from that unhappy man of another nationality,
who had chosen to thrust an inexpert finger into the workings of an
alien life. The machinery was dragging him up and down the sunlit
platform. The two men seemed to be learning polka-mazurkas together, and
the burden of their song, borne by one deep voice, was: "What did you
give me the drink for?"

I saw the flash of silver in the doctor's hand. The navvy took it and
pocketed it with his left; but never for an instant did his strong right
leave the doctor's coat-collar, and as the crisis approached, louder and
louder rose his bull-like roar: "What did you give me the drink for?"

They drifted under the great twelve-inch pinned timbers of the
foot-bridge towards the bench, and, I gathered, the time was very near
at hand. The stuff was getting in its work. Blue, white, and blue again,
rolled over the navvy's face in waves, till all settled to one rich
clay-bank yellow and--that fell which fell.

I thought of the blowing up of Hell Gate; of the geysers in the
Yellowstone Park; of Jonah and his whale: but the lively original, as
I watched it foreshortened from above, exceeded all these things. He
staggered to the bench, the heavy wooden seat cramped with iron cramps
into the enduring stone, and clung there with his left hand. It quivered
and shook, as a breakwater-pile quivers to the rush of landward-racing
seas; nor was there lacking when he caught his breath, the "scream of
a maddened beach dragged down by the tide." His right hand was upon
the doctor's collar, so that the two shook to one paroxysm, pendulums
vibrating together, while I, apart, shook with them.

It was colossal-immense; but of certain manifestations the English
language stops short. French only, the caryatid French of Victor Hugo,
would have described it; so I mourned while I laughed, hastily shuffling
and discarding inadequate adjectives. The vehemence of the shock spent
itself, and the sufferer half fell, half knelt, across the bench. He was
calling now upon God and his wife, huskily, as the wounded bull calls
upon the unscathed herd to stay. Curiously enough, he used no bad
language: that had gone from him with the rest. The doctor exhibited
gold. It was taken and retained. So, too, was the grip on the
coat-collar.

"If I could stand," boomed the giant, despairingly, "I'd smash you--you
an' your drinks. I'm dyin'--dyin'--dyin'!"

"That's what you think," said the doctor. "You'll find it will do you a
lot of good"; and, making a virtue of a somewhat imperative necessity,
he added: "I'll stay by you. If you'd let go of me a minute I'd give you
something that would settle you."

"You've settled me now, you damned anarchist. Takin' the bread out of
the mouth of an English workin'man! But I'll keep 'old of you till I'm
well or dead. I never did you no 'arm. S'pose I were a little full. They
pumped me out once at Guy's with a stummick-pump. I could see that, but
I can't see this 'ere, an' it's killin' of me by slow degrees."

"You'll be all right in half-an-hour. What do you suppose I'd want to
kill you for?" said the doctor, who came of a logical breed.

"'Ow do I know? Tell 'em in court. You'll get seven years for this, you
body-snatcher. That's what you are--a bloomin' bodysnatcher. There's
justice, I tell you, in England; and my Union'll prosecute, too. We
don't stand no tricks with people's insides 'ere. They give a woman ten
years for a sight less than this. An' you'll 'ave to pay 'undreds an'
'undreds o' pounds, besides a pension to the missus. You'll see, you
physickin' furriner. Where's your licence to do such? You'll catch it, I
tell you!"

Then I observed what I have frequently observed before, that a man who
is but reasonably afraid of an altercation with an alien has a most
poignant dread of the operations of foreign law. The doctor's voice was
flute-like in its exquisite politeness, as he answered:

"But I've given you a very great deal of money--fif-three pounds, I
think."

"An' what's three pound for poisonin' the likes o' me? They told me at
Guy's I'd fetch twenty-cold-on the slates. Ouh! It's comin' again."

A second time he was cut down by the foot, as it were, and the straining
bench rocked to and fro as I averted my eyes.

It was the very point of perfection in the heart of an English May-day.
The unseen tides of the air had turned, and all nature was setting its
face with the shadows of the horse-chestnuts towards the peace of the
coming night. But there were hours yet, I knew--long, long hours of the
eternal English twilight--to the ending of the day. I was well content
to be alive--to abandon myself to the drift of Time and Fate; to absorb
great peace through my skin, and to love my country with the devotion
that three thousand miles of intervening sea bring to fullest flower.
And what a garden of Eden it was, this fatted, clipped, and washen land!
A man could camp in any open field with more sense of home and security
than the stateliest buildings of foreign cities could afford. And the
joy was that it was all mine alienably--groomed hedgerow, spotless
road, decent greystone cottage, serried spinney, tasselled copse,
apple-bellied hawthorn, and well-grown tree. A light puff of wind--it
scattered flakes of may over the gleaming rails--gave me a faint whiff
as it might have been of fresh cocoanut, and I knew that the golden
gorse was in bloom somewhere out of sight. Linneeus had thanked God on
his bended knees when he first saw a field of it; and, by the way, the
navvy was on his knees, too. But he was by no means praying. He was
purely disgustful.

The doctor was compelled to bend over him, his face towards the back of
the seat, and from what I had seen I supposed the navvy was now dead.
If that were the case it would be time for me to go; but I knew that so
long as a man trusts himself to the current of Circumstance, reaching
out for and rejecting nothing that comes his way, no harm can overtake
him. It is the contriver, the schemer, who is caught by the Law, and
never the philosopher. I knew that when the play was played, Destiny
herself would move me on from the corpse; and I felt very sorry for the
doctor.

In the far distance, presumably upon the road that led to Framlynghame
Admiral, there appeared a vehicle and a horse--the one ancient fly that
almost every village can produce at need. This thing was advancing,
unpaid by me, towards the station; would have to pass along the deep-cut
lane, below the railway-bridge, and come out on the doctor's side. I was
in the centre of things, so all sides were alike to me. Here, then, was
my machine from the machine. When it arrived; something would happen, or
something else. For the rest, I owned my deeply interested soul.

The doctor, by the seat, turned so far as his cramped position allowed,
his head over his left shoulder, and laid his right hand upon his lips.
I threw back my hat and elevated my eyebrows in the form of a question.
The doctor shut his eyes and nodded his head slowly twice or thrice,
beckoning me to come. I descended cautiously, and it was as the signs
had told. The navvy was asleep, empty to the lowest notch; yet his hand
clutched still the doctor's collar, and at the lightest movement (the
doctor was really very cramped) tightened mechanically, as the hand of
a sick woman tightens on that of the watcher. He had dropped, squatting
almost upon his heels, and, falling lower, had dragged the doctor over
to the left.

The doctor thrust his right hand, which was free, into his pocket, drew
forth some keys, and shook his head. The navvy gurgled in his sleep.
Silently I dived into my pocket, took out one sovereign, and held it up
between finger and thumb. Again the doctor shook his head. Money was not
what was lacking to his peace. His bag had fallen from the seat to the
ground. He looked towards it, and opened his mouth-O-shape. The catch
was not a difficult one, and when I had mastered it, the doctor's right
forefinger was sawing the air. With an immense caution, I extracted
from the bag such a knife as they use for cutting collops off legs.
The doctor frowned, and with his first and second fingers imitated the
action of scissors. Again I searched, and found a most diabolical pair
of cock-nosed shears, capable of vandyking the interiors of elephants.
The doctor then slowly lowered his left shoulder till the navvy's right
wrist was supported by the bench, pausing a moment as the spent volcano
rumbled anew. Lower and lower the doctor sank, kneeling now by the
navvy's side, till his head was on a level with, and just in front of,
the great hairy fist, and--there was no tension on the coat-collar. Then
light dawned on me.

"But we have the old man swore," said a fifth, "we must not kill
him, our oath should not be broken." "It is true," said the other,
"we have sworn, and the murderer is free to expect from the hands of his
enemies. "" Stop! " cried one of the darkest among all. "The old Selim
is a wise head, but not so clever as you think, we have sworn to him,
because this guy or there to bring?

No, he took us to the oath on his life, and that we want him gift. But
the burning sun and the sharp teeth of the jackals will take our revenge.
Here, at this point we want to leave him tied. " Sun said the robbers,
but since a few minutes, Said had taken to the extreme, and that
by the last words said, he pulled his horse to the side, drove it with
a skilful blow and flew like a bird on the level.

The five men were amazed for a moment, but wohlbewandert in such
prosecutions, they are divided, hunted and left to right, and because
it is the way we ride in the desert must be better known, had two
of them refugee soon overtaken , turned against him, and when he
fled to the side, he found there two opponents and the fifth in his
back. The oath, not to kill him, gave them their weapons to use, they
threw him again from behind a noose over his head, pulled him from
his horse, beat mercilessly on him, tied him to the hands and feet
and put him in the hot sand of the desert.

Said she begged for mercy that he promised them a large ransom
screaming, but they are laughing swang and hunted them.

A few moments he listened to the slight kicking their steeds, but
then he is lost. He thought of his father, to the grief of the old
man when his son no longer return home.

He thought of his own misery, that he must die so early, because
nothing was certain to him than that he is in the hot sand to the
torture death of swelter should die or that he ripped from a jackal
will.

The sun rose ever higher and burned on his forehead glowing. With infinite
effort he succeeded at last, is aufzuwälzen, but it gave him little
relief.

Pfeifchen That was on the chain through this effort have
fallen out of his dress. He toiled so long, until he tried the mouth could
be at last it touched his lips, he tried to blow, but even in this
terrible plight, the service failed. Verzweiflungsvoll he let his head
fall back, and finally deprived him stabbing sun of the senses,
he fell into a deep sedation.

After many hours woke Said by a noise in his vicinity, he also
felt that his shoulder was packed, and he met with a cry of
horror, because he thought nothing more than a jackal had come for
him rip.

Now, he was also touched on the legs, but he felt that it was not the
predators had a claw, which included him, but the hands of a man
who is careful with him, and employed with two or three others said.
"He lives," she whispered, "but he keeps us enemies." Finally beat Said
eyes and saw on the face of a small, thick man with small eyes and long
beard. This spoke kindly to him, helped him to up, gave him food and
drink and told him while he was strengthened, he was a merchant from
Baghdad, hot Kalum-Beck and handle with fine scarves and veils for
women. He had a business trip, is now on the return home and I
understood him miserable and half in the sand are seen. His
splendid suit and sparkling stones of his dagger he had drawn attention,
he had all applied to revive him, and it was him so successful. The
young man thanked him for his life because he probably saw that,
without the Dazwischenkunft this wretched man would die, and because
he neither had that fortzuhelfen himself, was still willing to walk
alone through the desert to wander, so he gratefully took a seat
on one of the heavy-laden camels to the merchant, and decided for
the first , with to Baghdad to draw, maybe he could be in a society
which Balsora reisete request.

Unterwegs told the clerk his or her travel companions, some of the
excellent rulers of the Faithful, Harun al-Rashid. He told him of his
love of justice and his acumen as he the most amazing processes in a
simple and admirably simple way to know, among other things, he continued
the story of the rope, the story of the pot with olives, stories
which every child knows, but Said very admired. "Our Lord, the rulers
of the faithful," the clerk continued, "our Lord is a wonderful man, if
you meinet he slept, like other ordinary people, so täuschet you
very much.

Two, three hours in the morning twilight is everything . I must know,
because Messour and its first treasurer, is my cousin, and although he
is as secretive as the grave, what the secrets of his Lord, it is he,
good sake of kinship, and to fall again a Wink if he sees that almost
one out of curiosity could come from the mind. Instead, like other
people to sleep, the Caliph night creeps through the streets of
Baghdad, and rarely passes a week, which he is not an adventure
aufstößt, because you must know , as indeed it is from the story with
the olive pot lights, so true as the word of the prophet that he was not
with the guards on horseback and in full with hundreds of plaster and
torch carriers makes his round, as he probably could do if he wanted,
but as soon attracted merchants, sailors soon as soon as a soldier,
Mufti soon as he goes around and see if everything is right and in order.
It is, however, that in any city at night so polite to each Fools,
on which one encounters, as in Baghdad, because it could just as well as
the Caliph a dirty Arabs of the desert, and it grows enough wood for
all people in and around Baghdad to give the bastinado. "So said the
businessman , and Said, however much it now and again the longing for
his father tormented, but rejoiced, Baghdad and the famous Harun
al-Rashid to see.

After ten days, they arrived in Baghdad, and Said was amazed and
admired the splendor of this city who had just had its highest
splendor.

The merchant invited him to join in his house to come and Said took it
with pleasure, because now the throng of people was it that,
probably, except the air and water of the Tigris River and a night
on the steps a mosque nothing in vain to have his will.

The day after his arrival, when he had just dressed and confessed that
he had in this glorious war elevator in Baghdad could probably be
seen and perhaps some prefer to look at, joined the merchant in his
room.

He looked at the beautiful young man with a mischievous smile, pointed
to his beard, and then said: "This is all quite beautiful, young
man, but for now what should you be from?

You are, it comes before me, a big dreamer and not denket on the
following day, or did you spend so much money when you order the
dress according to live your traget? "" Dear Mr. Kalum-Beck, "said
the young man, embarrassed and blushing," I have money of course
not, but perhaps Your strecket me something before, so I can stay home,
my father, it is certainly right back. "" Your father, boy?

" cried the merchant loud laugh. "I think the sun has burnt your
brain. Do you think I believe you on the floor so the whole fairy tale,
you desert me in the narrative test, that your father a rich man
was in Balsora you his only son, and the attack of the Arabs, and
your life in their Horde and this and that.

Even then I was frustrated about your lies and your cheeky insolence.
I know that in Balsora all wealthy people are business people,
have already acted and with all one would have heard Benazar , and
if he was only six thousand Toman in assets would have.

It is therefore either lies that you're from Balsora, or your father is
a poor chute whose hergelaufenem boys I do not like copper coin borrow.
Then the raid in the desert! When did one belongs, since the wise Caliph
Harun the trade routes through the desert has assured that it is daring
robbers have plundered a caravan, and even people hinwegzuführen?

Also it should be known, but on my whole way, and also here in
Baghdad, where people from all parts of the world come together, they
talked about nothing. This is the second lie that young, insolent
man!

"Bleaching with rage and resentment wanted Said the little evil man in
the speech fall, but that screaming and stronger than he appealed
to the poor. "And the third lie, you liar cheekier, is the story of
the camp Selim. Selim name is well known among all who have ever
seen an Arab, but Selim is known as the cruellest and most terrible
predator, and you dare to tell you habest his son is killed and immediately
seiest not been hewn in pieces, yes, you drive the impudence so far that
you say Incredible, Selim've protects against his horde, in his own
tent, and dismissed without ransom, instead he thee hanged would have the
next best tree, he, the traveler often has hanged, only to see the faces
they make when they are hung up. Oh, you vile liar! " "And I can not
tell," cried the young man, "as everything that is true in my soul and
the beard of the Prophet!" "What, in your soul will you swear?" cried
the merchant, "when your black, lying liable soul? Who would believe? And
the beard of the Prophet, you, you do not have beard? Who will dare da?"
"I have certainly no witnesses," Said drove away, "But I do not
have you bound and miserable place?"

"That shows me nothing," said that, "you're dressed like a handsome
robber, and you have a slightly attacked, which was stronger than you,
you walked over and tied. "" The individual or even two, I would like
to see, "said Said," stretch me down and tie, if I do not back a noose
over the head throw.

Its like in your bazaar not know what an individual can, if He
practiced in the arms.

But you have saved my life and I thank you. What do you want but now
with me to start? If you do not unterstützet, I must beg, and I do
not like my equal to implore mercy ; to the caliph, I want to contact
me. "" So? " said the businessman, smiled mockingly. "To nobody else
you want to apply as allergnädigsten to our Lord?"

The genteel, I beg! Ei, ei! But remember, young gentlemen, that the way
to the caliph at my cousin Messour passes, and that it will cost me a
word, the upper Treasurer's attention on how excellent your könnet
lie.

But I will take your youth, Said. You can improve, it can be anything
from you.

I want you in my vault to the bazaar, there shalt thou me one years
long serve, and this is over and you do not want to stay with me, so I
will pay thee thy wages, and let you go where you want, to Aleppo or
Medina, or after Stambul Balsora, for me to disbelieve.

By noon there I'll reflection, do you want, it's good, you want
not, so you do I stop the reasonable travel expenses, you made me,
and the space on the camel, familiarizing myself with your clothes
and all that thou hast, paid and throw you on the road, then you
can at the caliph or the Mufti of the mosque in the bazaar or to beg.

   "With these words the evil man
   left the unfortunate young man. Said
   looked after him full contempt. He was
   so appalled by the wickedness of this man, bring
   him intentionally and in his house was locked, so he in his power
to acquire.

He tried whether he could not escape, but his room was barred and
the door closed. Finally, after his spirit is gesträubt had long opposed,
he decided, at first the proposal of the merchant to accept and in its
vaults to serve. He saw that, nothing better to do left, because if he
fled, so he could without money but not until Balsora come. But he took
that as soon as possible to the caliph himself to protect anzuflehen.

The following day, Kalum-Beck his new servant in his vault in the bazaar.
Said He showed all the scarves and veils and other goods, with
which he acted, and gave him his special service.

This was that Said, dressed like a servant of a merchant and no longer
in the military decorations, in one hand a scarf in the the other
a magnificent veil, under the door of the vault was the temporary
men or women called to show his product, its price and said the
people invited to buy, and now Said could also explain why it
Kalum-Beck about this business provides did.

He was a small, ugly age, and when he himself in the shop and called
students, said some neighbor or a passer of a funny word about him,
or mocked his boys, and the women called him a scarecrow, but
everyone looked like the young slim Said, with the decency to call
the customer and scarf and veil and petite cleverly keep knew.

Kalum When Beck saw that his shop in the bazaar to customers
increased, since Said stood at the door, he was friendly to the
young man who fed him better than before and was anxious to him in
his clothes always look nice and handsome to hold.

But Said was by such evidence of more lenient attitudes of his Lord and
stirred little thought the whole day and even in his dreams at a
good way to town in his father to return.

One day in the vault was a lot have been bought and all the
servants pack, which home goods contributed, were already sent
when a woman entered and some bought.

She was soon elected and then asked someone who is against her a
tip of the goods at home wear.

"In half an hour, I can send you everything," said Kalum-Beck, "just
so long must you wait or take any other packer."

"Are you a merchant and your customers wollet foreign packer mitgeben?"
cried the woman.

"Can not this guy in the crowd with my pack of them running? And to
whom should I contact you? No, your duty is to market it right, my pack
to take home, and to you, and do I want to keep. "" But only a
half hour wait, dear wife!

    " said the merchant, always fearful clockwise.

"All my servants are sent packing -" "That is a poor vault that has not
always spare a few servants," said the wicked woman. "But there is
still such a young loafer, come, young fellow, take my pack and have
it after me!" "Stop, stop!" cried Kalum-Beck. "This is my flagship,
my crier, my magnet! The threshold should not leave!" "What there!"
replied the old lady and put Said without their pack under his arm,
"that is a bad businessman and squalid goods which are not self-praise,
and yet such an idle boy to sign need. Go, go, lad, thou shalt now
deserve a tip! "" To run on behalf Arimans and all evil spirits, "muttered
Kalum-magnet to his pelvis," and to see that you soon wiederkommst the
old witch could bring myself to yelling across the bazaar, I wanted to
longer refuse me. "Said the woman followed, the lighter step than
anyone her age should be trusted by the market and the streets ran.
They finally stood before a splendid house still, knocked on the
doors sprang up, and they climbed the marble stairs and waved Said
hinan to follow. They finally arrived at a high, wide hall, the
magnificence and glory, more contained than Said ever had compatriots.
There sat the old woman exhausted on a cushion, the young man waved his
pack down, handed him a small piece of silver, and bade him go. He was
already at the door, as a bright, fine voice "Said" exclaimed,
astonished, that we know him here, he looked around, and a beautiful
lady, surrounded by many slaves and servants, sat instead of the
ancients on the cushion.

Said, quite mute astonishment before, crossed his arms and made a deep
bow. "Said, my dear boy," said the lady, "much as I regret the injuries
that led you to Baghdad, but this was the only fate of some place
where, if you are the twentieth year before your father left home, your
fate would solve. Said, hast thou, nor thy Pfeifchen? "" Well-hab 'I do,
"he cried joyously, by the golden chain hervorzog, "and you are perhaps
the benevolent fairy that Angebinde gave me this when I was born?"
"I was the girlfriend of your mother," replied the fairy, "and I'm
also your friend, as long as you stay well. Oh, that thy father,
the reckless man who would have followed my advice and you would have
escaped many of his suffering. "" Well, it must come as well! " Said
replied. "But gracious fairy, let an efficient north-east wind to cloud
your car clamping, fear me and drives me on in a few minutes after
Balsora to my father, I will be the six months up to my twentieth year
there patiently endure." The fairy smiled. "You have a good way to talk
with us," she replied, "but, poor Said, it is not possible, I can
now, when your father unless you're home, nothing wonderful for you
to do.

    Not even from the violence wretched of the Kalum-Beck I can to rid
yourself.

He stands under the protection of your mighty enemy. "" So not only
a kind friend I have, "said Said," an enemy? Well, I think their
influence has more to learn . But with advice dürfet me your support?
Should I not go to the Caliph and ask him for protection? He is a wise
man, he is against me Kalum-Beck protect. "" Yes, Harun is a
wise man! " replied the fairy. "But unfortunately he is also just a
man. He trusts his big Treasurer Messour as much as himself, and he was
right, because he has Messour tested and found faithful. Messour but
trust your friend Kalum-Beck also like himself, and it has it wrong,
because Kalum is a bad man, if he is already Messours relatives.
Kalum is also a devious head and, once he hierherkam, his cousin Grand
Treasurer a fable about you forged and attached, and this has again
told the caliph, so you would you even now in the palace Harun, would
be badly received, because he does not trust you. But there are other
ways, too close to him, and it is written in the stars that thou his
grace acquire shalt. " "This is certainly bad," Said said wistfully.
"Then I will have some time the shop keeper of the miserable Kalum-Beck
must. But a grace, dear Madam, your könnet grant me. I am a factory
trained to arms, and my highest joy is a fight game, which is quite
efficient ment under with spear, bow and dull sword. Now consider the
noblest youths of this town every week such a fight game. But only
people in the highest jewelry and moreover only free men may ride into
the barriers, including, but not a servant from the bazaar. If you
now bring could be that I am a horse every week, clothes and weapons
could have and that my face is not as easy to recognize - "" That is a
desire, as a noble young man probably should dare, "said the fairy,"
the father your mother was the bravest man in Syria, and his mind
seems to be on you to have inherited.

Remember this house, thou shalt be here every week, a horse and two
Mounted Knappen, also weapons and clothes, and water for washing your
face, will take you for all eyes to be obscure.

And now, Said, farewell! Harre and was wise and virtuous!

In six months, your Pfeifchen sounds, and Zulimas his ear for sounds
open.

"The young man retired from his wonderful protector with gratitude
and reverence, he realized the house and the road and just went
back to the bazaar.

As Said in the bazaar returned, he came just to the right time to
meet his Lord and Master Kalum-Beck to assist and save.

A large crowd was at the shop, boys danced to the merchant, and ridiculed
him, and the elders laughed.

He stood trembling in anger and in great embarrassment in front of
the store, in one hand, a scarf, and in the other the veil.

This strange scene was but an incident of her, after Said's absence had
occurred.

Kalum had taken his beautiful servant at the door and exclaimed,
but nobody liked in the old boys buy ugly.

There were two men down and the bazaar for their wives wanted to buy
gifts.

When the floods came they
went forth and hunted strayed pontoons along the banks. Otherwise there
was nothing to do, and the men got drunk, gambled, and quarrelled. They
were a sickly crew, for a junior subaltern is by custom saddled with the
worst men. Cottar endured their rioting as long as he could, and then
sent down-country for a dozen pairs of boxing-gloves.

"I wouldn't blame you for fightin'," said he, "if you only knew how to
use your hands; but you don't. Take these things, and I'll show you."
The men appreciated his efforts. Now, instead of blaspheming and
swearing at a comrade, and threatening to shoot him, they could take him
apart, and soothe themselves to exhaustion. As one explained whom Cottar
found with a shut eye and a diamond-shaped mouth spitting blood through
an embrasure: "We tried it with the gloves, sir, for twenty minutes, and
that done us no good, sir. Then we took off the gloves and tried it that
way for another twenty minutes, same as you showed us, sir, an' that
done us a world o' good. 'T wasn't fightin', sir; there was a bet on."

Cottar dared not laugh, but he invited his men to other sports, such as
racing across country in shirt and trousers after a trail of torn paper,
and to single-stick in the evenings, till the native population, who
had a lust for sport in every form, wished to know whether the white men
understood wrestling. They sent in an ambassador, who took the soldiers
by the neck and threw them about the dust; and the entire command were
all for this new game. They spent money on learning new falls and
holds, which was better than buying other doubtful commodities; and the
peasantry grinned five deep round the tournaments.

That detachment, who had gone up in bullock-carts, returned
to headquarters at an average rate of thirty miles a day, fair
heel-and-toe; no sick, no prisoners, and no court martials pending. They
scattered themselves among their friends, singing the praises of their
lieutenant and looking for causes of offense.

"How did you do it, young un?" the adjutant asked.

"Oh, I sweated the beef off 'em, and then I sweated some muscle on to
'em. It was rather a lark."

"If that's your way of lookin' at it, we can give you all the larks you
want. Young Davies isn't feelin' quite fit, and he's next for detachment
duty. Care to go for him?"

"'Sure he wouldn't mind? I don't want to shove myself forward, you
know."

"You needn't bother on Davies's account. We'll give you the sweepin's of
the corps, and you can see what you can make of 'em."

"All right," said Cottar. "It's better fun than loafin' about
cantonments."

"Rummy thing," said the adjutant, after Cottar had returned to his
wilderness with twenty other devils worse than the first. "If
Cottar only knew it, half the women in the station would give their
eyes--confound 'em!--to have the young un in tow."

"That accounts for Mrs. Elery sayin' I was workin' my nice new boy too
hard," said a wing commander.

"Oh, yes; and 'Why doesn't he come to the bandstand in the evenings?'
and 'Can't I get him to make up a four at tennis with the Hammon
girls?'" the adjutant snorted. "Look at young Davies makin' an ass of
himself over mutton-dressed-as-lamb old enough to be his mother!"

"No one can accuse young Cottar of runnin' after women, white or
black," the major replied thoughtfully. "But, then, that's the kind that
generally goes the worst mucker in the end."

"Not Cottar. I've only run across one of his muster before--a fellow
called Ingles, in South Africa. He was just the same hard trained,
athletic-sports build of animal. Always kept himself in the pink of
condition. Didn't do him much good, though. 'Shot at Wesselstroom the
week before Majuba. Wonder how the young un will lick his detachment
into shape."

Cottar turned up six weeks later, on foot, with his pupils. He never
told his experiences, but the men spoke enthusiastically, and fragments
of it leaked back to the colonel through sergeants, batmen, and the
like.

There was great jealousy between the first and second detachments, but
the men united in adoring Cottar, and their way of showing it was by
sparing him all the trouble that men know how to make for an unloved
officer. He sought popularity as little as he had sought it at school,
and therefore it came to him. He favoured no one--not even when the
company sloven pulled the company cricket-match out of the fire with an
unexpected forty-three at the last moment. There was very little getting
round him, for he seemed to know by instinct exactly when and where to
head off a malingerer; but he did not forget that the difference
between a dazed and sulky junior of the upper school and a bewildered,
browbeaten lump of a private fresh from the depot was very small indeed.
The sergeants, seeing these things, told him secrets generally hid from
young officers. His words were quoted as barrack authority on bets in
canteen and at tea; and the veriest shrew of the corps, bursting with
charges against other women who had used the cooking-ranges out of turn,
forbore to speak when Cottar, as the regulations ordained, asked of a
morning if there were "any complaints."

"I'm full o' complaints," said Mrs. Corporal Morrison, "an' I'd kill
O'Halloran's fat sow of a wife any day, but ye know how it is. 'E
puts 'is head just inside the door, an' looks down 'is blessed nose so
bashful, an' 'e whispers, 'Any complaints' Ye can't complain after that.
I want to kiss him. Some day I think I will. Heigh-ho! she'll be a lucky
woman that gets Young Innocence. See 'im now, girls. Do ye blame me?"

Cottar was cantering across to polo, and he looked a very satisfactory
figure of a man as he gave easily to the first excited bucks of his
pony, and slipped over a low mud wall to the practice-ground. There were
more than Mrs. Corporal Morrison who felt as she did. But Cottar was
busy for eleven hours of the day. He did not care to have his tennis
spoiled by petticoats in the court; and after one long afternoon at
a garden-party, he explained to his major that this sort of thing was
"futile priffle," and the major laughed. Theirs was not a married mess,
except for the colonel's wife, and Cottar stood in awe of the good lady.
She said "my regiment," and the world knows what that means. None
the less when they wanted her to give away the prizes after a
shooting-match, and she refused because one of the prize-winners was
married to a girl who had made a jest of her behind her broad back, the
mess ordered Cottar to "tackle her," in his best calling-kit. This he
did, simply and laboriously, and she gave way altogether.

"She only wanted to know the facts of the case," he explained. "I just
told her, and she saw at once."

"Ye-es," said the adjutant. "I expect that's what she did. Comin' to the
Fusiliers' dance to-night, Galahad?"

"No, thanks. I've got a fight on with the major." The virtuous
apprentice sat up till midnight in the major's quarters, with a
stop-watch and a pair of compasses, shifting little painted lead-blocks
about a four-inch map.

Then he turned in and slept the sleep of innocence, which is full
of healthy dreams. One peculiarity of his dreams he noticed at the
beginning of his second hot weather. Two or three times a month
they duplicated or ran in series. He would find himself sliding into
dreamland by the same road--a road that ran along a beach near a pile of
brushwood. To the right lay the sea, sometimes at full tide, sometimes
withdrawn to the very horizon; but he knew it for the same sea. By that
road he would travel over a swell of rising ground covered with short,
withered grass, into valleys of wonder and unreason. Beyond the ridge,
which was crowned with some sort of street-lamp, anything was possible;
but up to the lamp it seemed to him that he knew the road as well as he
knew the parade-ground. He learned to look forward to the place; for,
once there, he was sure of a good night's rest, and Indian hot weather
can be rather trying. First, shadowy under closing eyelids, would
come the outline of the brushwood-pile; next the white sand of the
beach-road, almost overhanging the black, changeful sea; then the turn
inland and uphill to the single light. When he was unrestful for any
reason, he would tell himself how he was sure to get there--sure to get
there--if he shut his eyes and surrendered to the drift of things. But
one night after a foolishly hard hour's polo (the thermometer was 94°
in his quarters at ten o'clock), sleep stood away from him altogether,
though he did his best to find the well-known road, the point where true
sleep began. At last he saw the brushwood-pile, and hurried along to
the ridge, for behind him he felt was the wide-awake, sultry world.
He reached the lamp in safety, tingling with drowsiness, when a
policeman--a common country policeman--sprang up before him and touched
him on the shoulder ere he could dive into the dim valley below. He was
filled with terror,--the hopeless terror of dreams,--for the policeman
said, in the awful, distinct voice of dream-people, "I am Policeman Day
coming back from the City of Sleep. You come with me." Georgie knew it
was true--that just beyond him in the valley lay the lights of the
City of Sleep, where he would have been sheltered, and that this
Policeman-Thing had full power and authority to head him back to
miserable wakefulness. He found himself looking at the moonlight on the
wall, dripping with fright; and he never overcame that horror, though he
met the Policeman several times that hot weather, and his coming was the
forerunner of a bad night.

But other dreams-perfectly absurd ones-filled him with an incommunicable
delight. All those that he remembered began by the brushwood-pile. For
instance, he found a small clockwork steamer (he had noticed it many
nights before) lying by the sea-road, and stepped into it, whereupon it
moved with surpassing swiftness over an absolutely level sea. This was
glorious, for he felt he was exploring great matters; and it stopped
by a lily carved in stone, which, most naturally, floated on the water.
Seeing the lily was labelled "Hong-Kong," Georgie said: "Of course. This
is precisely what I expected Hong-Kong would be like. How magnificent!"
Thousands of miles farther on it halted at yet another stone lily,
labelled "Java."; and this, again, delighted him hugely, because he knew
that now he was at the world's end. But the little boat ran on and on
till it lay in a deep fresh-water lock, the sides of which were carven
marble, green with moss. Lilypads lay on the water, and reeds arched
above. Some one moved among the reeds--some one whom Georgie knew he
had travelled to this world's end to reach. Therefore everything was
entirely well with him. He was unspeakably happy, and vaulted over the
ship's side to find this person. When his feet touched that still water,
it changed, with the rustle of unrolling maps, to nothing less than a
sixth quarter of the globe, beyond the most remote imagining of man--a
place where islands were coloured yellow and blue, their lettering
strung across their faces. They gave on unknown seas, and Georgie's
urgent desire was to return swiftly across this floating atlas to known
bearings. He told himself repeatedly that it was no good to hurry; but
still he hurried desperately, and the islands slipped and slid under his
feet; the straits yawned and widened, till he found himself utterly
lost in the world's fourth dimension, with no hope of return. Yet only
a little distance away he could see the old world with the rivers and
mountain-chains marked according to the Sandhurst rules of mapmaking.
Then that person for whom he had come to the Lily Lock (that was its
name) ran up across unexplored territories, and showed him away. They
fled hand in hand till they reached a road that spanned ravines, and ran
along the edge of precipices, and was tunnelled through mountains. "This
goes to our brushwood-pile," said his companion; and all his trouble
was at an end. He took a pony, because he understood that this was
the Thirty-Mile Ride and he must ride swiftly, and raced through the
clattering tunnels and round the curves, always downhill, till he heard
the sea to his left, and saw it raging under a full moon, against sandy
cliffs. It was heavy going, but he recognised the nature of the country,
the dark-purple downs inland, and the bents that whistled in the wind.
The road was eaten away in places, and the sea lashed at him-black,
foamless tongues of smooth and glossy rollers; but he was sure that
there was less danger from the sea than from "Them," whoever "They"
were, inland to his right. He knew, too, that he would be safe if he
could reach the down with the lamp on it. This came as he expected: he
saw the one light a mile ahead along the beach, dismounted, turned to
the right, walked quietly over to the brushwood-pile, found the little
steamer had returned to the beach whence he had unmoored it, and--must
have fallen asleep, for he could remember no more. "I'm gettin' the hang
of the geography of that place," he said to himself, as he shaved
next morning. "I must have made some sort of circle. Let's see. The
Thirty-Mile Ride (now how the deuce did I know it was called the
Thirty-Mile, Ride?) joins the sea-road beyond the first down where the
lamp is. And that atlas-country lies at the back of the Thirty-Mile
Ride, somewhere out to the right beyond the hills and tunnels. Rummy
things, dreams. 'Wonder what makes mine fit into each other so?"

He continued on his solid way through the recurring duties of the
seasons. The regiment was shifted to another station, and he enjoyed
road-marching for two months, with a good deal of mixed shooting thrown
in, and when they reached their new cantonments he became a member of
the local Tent Club, and chased the mighty boar on horseback with a
short stabbing-spear. There he met the mahseer of the Poonch, beside
whom the tarpon is as a herring, and he who lands him can say that he is
a fisherman. This was as new and as fascinating as the big-game shooting
that fell to his portion, when he had himself photographed for the
mother's benefit, sitting on the flank of his first tiger.

Then the adjutant was promoted, and Cottar rejoiced with him, for he
admired the adjutant greatly, and marvelled who might be big enough to
fill his place; so that he nearly collapsed when the mantle fell on his
own shoulders, and the colonel said a few sweet things that made him
blush. An adjutant's position does not differ materially from that of
head of the school, and Cottar stood in the same relation to the colonel
as he had to his old Head in England. Only, tempers wear out in hot
weather, and things were said and done that tried him sorely, and he
made glorious blunders, from which the regimental sergeant-major pulled
him with a loyal soul and a shut mouth. Slovens and incompetents
raged against him; the weak-minded strove to lure him from the ways of
justice; the small-minded--yea, men whom Cottar believed would never
do "things no fellow can do"--imputed motives mean and circuitous to
actions that he had not spent a thought upon; and he tasted injustice,
and it made him very sick. But his consolation came on parade, when he
looked down the full companies, and reflected how few were in hospital
or cells, and wondered when the time would come to try the machine of
his love and labour.

But they needed and expected the whole of a man's working-day, and maybe
three or four hours of the night. Curiously enough, he never dreamed
about the regiment as he was popularly supposed to. The mind, set free
from the day's doings, generally ceased working altogether, or, if it
moved at all, carried him along the old beach-road to the downs, the
lamp-post, and, once in a while, to terrible Policeman Day. The second
time that he returned to the world's lost continent (this was a dream
that repeated itself again and again, with variations, on the same
ground) he knew that if he only sat still the person from the Lily Lock
would help him, and he was not disappointed. Sometimes he was trapped in
mines of vast depth hollowed out of the heart of the world, where men
in torment chanted echoing songs; and he heard this person coming along
through the galleries, and everything was made safe and delightful. They
met again in low-roofed Indian railway-carriages that halted in a
garden surrounded by gilt-and-green railings, where a mob of stony white
people, all unfriendly, sat at breakfast-tables covered with roses,
and separated Georgie from his companion, while underground voices sang
deep-voiced songs. Georgie was filled with enormous despair till they
two met again. They foregathered in the middle of an endless, hot tropic
night, and crept into a huge house that stood, he knew, somewhere north
of the railway-station where the people ate among the roses. It was
surrounded with gardens, all moist and dripping; and in one room,
reached through leagues of whitewashed passages, a Sick Thing lay in
bed. Now the least noise, Georgie knew, would unchain some waiting
horror, and his companion knew it, too; but when their eyes met across
the bed, Georgie was disgusted to see that she was a child--a little
girl in strapped shoes, with her black hair combed back from her
forehead.

"What disgraceful folly!" he thought. "Now she could do nothing whatever
if Its head came off."

Then the Thing coughed, and the ceiling shattered down in plaster on the
mosquito-netting, and "They" rushed in from all quarters. He dragged the
child through the stifling garden, voices chanting behind them, and they
rode the Thirty-Mile Ride under whip and spur along the sandy beach by
the booming sea, till they came to the downs, the lamp-post, and the
brushwood-pile, which was safety. Very often dreams would break up
about them in this fashion, and they would be separated, to endure awful
adventures alone. But the most amusing times were when he and she had
a clear understanding that it was all make-believe, and walked through
mile-wide roaring rivers without even taking off their shoes, or set
light to populous cities to see how they would burn, and were rude as
any children to the vague shadows met in their rambles. Later in the
night they were sure to suffer for this, either at the hands of the
Railway People eating among the roses, or in the tropic uplands at the
far end of the Thirty-Mile Ride. Together, this did no much affright
them; but often Georgie would hear her shrill cry of "Boy! Boy!" half a
world away, and hurry to her rescue before "They" maltreated her.

He and she explored the dark-purple downs as far inland from the
brushwood-pile as they dared, but that was always a dangerous matter.
The interior was filled with "Them," and "They" went about singing in
the hollows, and Georgie and she felt safer on or near the seaboard. So
thoroughly had he come to know the place of his dreams that even waking
he accepted it as a real country, and made a rough sketch of it. He kept
his own counsel, of course; but the permanence of the land puzzled him.
His ordinary dreams were as formless and as fleeting as any healthy
dreams could be, but once at the brushwood-pile he moved within known
limits and could see where he was going. There were months at a time
when nothing notable crossed his sleep. Then the dreams would come in
a batch of five or six, and next morning the map that he kept in
his writing case would be written up to date, for Georgie was a most
methodical person. There was, indeed, a danger--his seniors said so--of
his developing into a regular "Auntie Fuss" of an adjutant, and when an
officer once takes to old-maidism there is more hope for the virgin of
seventy than for him.

But fate sent the change that was needed, in the shape of a little
winter campaign on the Border, which, after the manner of little
campaigns, flashed out into a very ugly war; and Cottar's regiment was
chosen among the first.

"Now," said a major, "this'll shake the cobwebs out of
us all--especially you, Galahad; and we can see what your
hen-with-one-chick attitude has done for the regiment."

Cottar nearly wept with joy as the campaign went forward. They were
fit--physically fit beyond the other troops; they were good children in
camp, wet or dry, fed or unfed; and they followed their officers with
the quick suppleness and trained obedience of a first-class foot-ball
fifteen. They were cut off from their apology for a base, and cheerfully
cut their way back to it again; they crowned and cleaned out hills full
of the enemy with the precision of well-broken dogs of chase; and in the
hour of retreat, when, hampered with the sick and wounded of the column,
they were persecuted down eleven miles of waterless valley, they,
serving as rearguard, covered themselves with a great glory in the eyes
of fellow-professionals. Any regiment can advance, but few know how to
retreat with a sting in the tail. Then they turned to made roads, most
often under fire, and dismantled some inconvenient mud redoubts. They
were the last corps to be withdrawn when the rubbish of the campaign
was all swept up; and after a month in standing camp, which tries morals
severely, they departed to their own place in column of fours, singing:

                "'E's goin' to do without 'em--
                   Don't want 'em any more;
                 'E's goin' to do without 'em,
                    As 'e's often done before.
                 'E's goin' to be a martyr
                    On a 'ighly novel plan,
                  An' all the boys and girls will say,
                  'Ow! what a nice young man-man-man!
                  Ow! what a nice young man!'"

There came out a "Gazette" in which Cottar found that he had been
behaving with "courage and coolness and discretion" in all his
capacities; that he had assisted the wounded under fire, and blown in a
gate, also under fire. Net result, his captaincy and a brevet majority,
coupled with the Distinguished Service Order.

As to his wounded, he explained that they were both heavy men, whom
he could lift more easily than any one else. "Otherwise, of course,
I should have sent out one of my men; and, of course, about that gate
business, we were safe the minute we were well under the walls." But
this did not prevent his men from cheering him furiously whenever
they saw him, or the mess from giving him a dinner on the eve of his
departure to England. (A year's leave was among the things he had
"snaffled out of the campaign," I to use his own words.) The doctor, who
had taken quite as much as was good for him, quoted poetry about "a good
blade carving the casques of men," and so on, and everybody told Cottar
that he was an excellent person; but when he rose to make his maiden
speech they shouted so that he was understood to say, "It isn't any use
tryin' to speak with you chaps rottin' me like this. Let's have some
pool."

    *    *    *    *    *

It is not unpleasant to spend eight-and-twenty days in an easy-going
steamer on warm waters, in the company of a woman who lets you see
that you are head and shoulders superior to the rest of the world, even
though that woman may be, and most often is, ten counted years your
senior. P.O. boats are not lighted with the disgustful particularity of
Atlantic liners. There is more phosphorescence at the bows, and greater
silence and darkness by the hand-steering gear aft.

Awful things might have happened to Georgie but for the little fact that
he had never studied the first principles of the game he was expected to
play. So when Mrs. Zuleika, at Aden, told him how motherly an interest
she felt in his welfare, medals, brevet, and all, Georgie took her at
the foot of the letter, and promptly talked of his own mother, three
hundred miles nearer each day, of his home, and so forth, all the way up
the Red Sea. It was much easier than he had supposed to converse with
a woman for an hour at a time. Then Mrs. Zuleika, turning from parental
affection, spoke of love in the abstract as a thing not unworthy of
study, and in discreet twilights after dinner demanded confidences.
Georgie would have been delighted to supply them, but he had none, and
did not know it was his duty to manufacture them. Mrs. Zuleika expressed
surprise and unbelief, and asked--those questions which deep asks of
deep. She learned all that was necessary to conviction, and, being very
much a woman, resumed (Georgie never knew that she had abandoned) the
motherly attitude.

"Do you know," she said, somewhere in the Mediterranean, "I think you're
the very dearest boy I have ever met in my life, and I'd like you to
remember me a little. You will when you are older, but I want you to
remember me now. You'll make some girl very happy."

"Oh! Hope so," said Georgie, gravely; "but there's heaps of time for
marryin' an' all that sort of thing, ain't there?"

"That depends. Here are your bean-bags for the Ladies' Competition. I
think I'm growing too old to care for these tamashas."

They were getting up sports, and Georgie was on the committee. He never
noticed how perfectly the bags were sewn, but another woman did, and
smiled--once. He liked Mrs. Zuleika greatly. She was a bit old, of
course, but uncommonly nice. There was no nonsense about her.

A few nights after they passed Gibraltar his dream returned to him.
She who waited by the brushwood-pile was no longer a little girl, but a
woman with black hair that grew into a "widow's peak," combed back from
her forehead. He knew her for the child in black, the companion of the
last six years, and, as it had been in the time of the meetings on the
Lost Continent, he was filled with delight unspeakable. "They," for some
dreamland reason, were friendly or had gone away that night, and the two
flitted together over all their country, from the brushwood-pile up the
Thirty-Mile Ride, till they saw the House of the Sick Thing, a pin-point
in the distance to the left; stamped through the Railway Waiting-room
where the roses lay on the spread breakfast-tables; and returned, by the
ford and the city they had once burned for sport, to the great swells
of the downs under the lamp-post. Wherever they moved a strong singing
followed them underground, but this night there was no panic. All the
land was empty except for themselves, and at the last (they were sitting
by the lamp-post hand in hand) she turned and kissed him. He woke with a
start, staring at the waving curtain of the cabin door; he could almost
have sworn that the kiss was real.

Next morning the ship was rolling in a Biscay sea, and people were not
happy; but as Georgie came to breakfast, shaven, tubbed, and smelling of
soap, several turned to look at him because of the light in his eyes and
the splendour of his countenance.

"Well, you look beastly fit," snapped a neighbour. "Any one left you a
legacy in the middle of the Bay?"

Georgie reached for the curry, with a seraphic grin. "I suppose it's
the gettin' so near home, and all that. I do feel rather festive this
mornin. "Since they have now not the best in entertainment," said the
student.

"I am, I confess there is nothing so odious as the ghost stories."
"Oh, because I think just the opposite," cried the blacksmith circle.
"Mir, it is quite comfortable with a scary story right. It is just like
the rainy weather, when under the roof to sleep.

You can hear the drops tick, tack, tick, tack on the brick herunterrauschen
and feels quite warm in the water. So, if for light and in the company
of ghosts, listening, you feel safe and comfortable. " But afterwards?
" said the student. "If one has listened to the ridiculous belief in
ghosts is revealed, he will not gray when he is alone in the dark?
If he is not at all Schaulager Court think what he heard? I am still on
these ghost stories angry when I think of my childhood. I was a better
mood, bright boy and I would love to maybe be a little restless, as my
nurse was sweet.

Because now she knew no other means to me to silence when they made me
afraid. You look told me all sorts of court stories of witches and
evil spirits who haunt the house should be, and if a cat on the ground
drove her care, she whispered anxiously to me: "Do you, dear son?

Now he goes back stairs, stairs from the dead man he carries his
head under his arm, but his eyes shine like lanterns but, he has claws
instead of fingers, and if it is caught in the dark, he turns his
neck order. "" The men laughed at such stories, but the student
went on: "I was too young when I had that view, all this was untrue
and fictitious.

I am not afraid in front of the largest hunting dog, threw all my Gespielen
in the sand, but when I came into the dark, I squeezed out of fear to
the eyes, because I thought now would be the dead man to sneak. It went
so far as that I am no longer alone and without the light from the
door to go to when it was dark, and sometimes asked me how my father
afterwards castigated when he noticed this bad habit.

But a long time that I could not get rid of childish fear, and my own
stupid fault, the nurse. "" Yes, this is a big mistake, " said the hunter,
"if the child's mind with such utter foolishness fills.

I can assure you that I am brave, courageous men knew, hunters
who are otherwise faced with three enemies if they are not afraid at
night in the forest on wildlife should be lurking thieves or wild
because they often use to suddenly of courage, because they saw a
tree for a terrible specter, a bush for a witch and a few Glühwürmer
for the eyes of the factories, which, in the dark on it laure.

"And not just for children "replied the student," I believe that
conversations of this type for highly damaging and foolish, but also
for everyone, because what sensible person will take the buzz and
being entertained by things that really just a gateway in the brain
really are.

They haunted it nowhere else. allerschädlichsten But these stories
are among the peasantry.

There is believed to unabweichlich and follies of this kind, and
this belief is in the spinning rooms in the inn and nourished, where
they are close together and with the terrible voice allergreulichsten
stories to tell. "" Yes, Sir!

" replied the wagoner. "You may understand not wrong, even by some
misfortune is such stories emerged, but even so is my sister by
elendiglich killed."

"How so? In such stories?" cried the astonished men.

"Yep, in those stories," said those on.

"In the village where our father lived, the custom is that women and
girls in the winter evenings to the spiders are composed.

The young boys then come and tell some. So there was one evening that
one of the ghosts and apparitions spoke, and the young boy told by
an old Kraemer, already ten years ago had died, but no peace in the
grave find.

Every night they throw the earth away, rising from the grave,
insidious slowly and coughing as he done in life, after his shop
and then weigh the sugar and coffee, because he is hinmurmle: "Three
Four Three Four Have at midnight during the day made a pound."

Many claimed to have seen him, and the girls and women began
to become afraid. My sister, however, a girl of sixteen years, wanted to
be wiser than the others and said: "I think everything is not he
who once is dead, does not come back!"

You said it, but unfortunately without conviction, for they had often
been feared. As said one of the young people: "If you believe this,
so you will not fear before him, his grave is just two steps from
Käthchens who recently died.

Wage it once, go out into the churchyard, brich Käthchens grave of a flower
and bring it forward, we believe that before you Krämer not fear! "My
sister is ashamed, derided by others to be said about she, "oh! this
is a light to me, what do you want to because for a flower?

"" It blooms throughout the village as no white roses there, so
bring 'us a bouquet of them, "answered one of their girlfriends.

You stood up and walked, and all Men praised her courage, but the women
shook their heads and said: "If it only runs well," My sister went
to the churchyard, and the moon shone brightly, and she began to
shudder, as are twelve clock and beat the churchyard gate opened.

They went away on some burial mounds, which they knew, and her heart was
anxious and always banger, the closer they are to Käthchens and
white roses to the grave of Kraemer was uncanny.

Now she was there, shaking, she knelt down and bent the flowers ab.

Because she believed very close to hear a noise, they looked around, two
steps from her flew the earth from a grave across, and slowly directed
into a shape it up. It was an old pale man with a white sleepyhead on
the head. My sister was shocked, she looked out again, to convince them
if they have legally seen as but the grave with näselnder voice began
to speak: "Good evening, Virgin, where so late?" as scheduled it is a
horror of death, they raffte on, jumped out of the graves in that home,
almost breathlessly told what they seen, and was so weak that they had
to go home. What use is it us that we are at the other days learned
that there are graves of the dead had been there and made a grave for
my poor sister had spoken? you lapsed before they could learn in
a hot fever, in which she died after three days. The roses on her dead
wreath they themselves had broken. "The carter was silent, and hung a
tear in his eyes, but the others were participating in it."

Thus, the poor child to this belief Köhler die, "said the young workers
of gold," falls to me as a legend, which I would like to tell you well,
and unfortunately with such a bereavement-related ": The Cave of Steenfoll
A Sage schottländische Wilhelm Hauff on one of the rocky islands of
Scotland for many years lived in two fish happy harmony. They were
both unmarried, had no other relatives, and their joint work, although
differently applied, fed them both. At the age they came pretty close
to each other, but from person to Gemütsart compared to each other no
more than an eagle and a Seekalb. Kaspar sock was a short, thick man
with a broad, fat full moon smiling face and good-natured eyes, grief
and anxiety which alien seemed to be. He was not only bold, but also
lazy and sleepy, and he fell to the work of the house, cooking and baking,
knitting of the networks for their own fishing and Sell, also a large
part of the order of their small prey field. Quite the contrary was his
companion, long and lean, with bold hawk nose and sharp eyes, he was
employed as the happiest and Fischer, the company after birds and
climbing down, of the diligent field workers on the islands and as the
money traders in the market Kirch Wall known to, but because its good
and its products are free of fraud, conversion, so everyone was happy
with him, and Wilm falcon (named him as his fellow countrymen) and Kaspar
hosiery, which despite its former greed like his hard-won earnings
divided had not only a good diet, but were also well on its way,
a certain degree of wealth to gain.

But wealth alone did not mind what hawks habsüchtigem coherence; he wanted
rich, very rich, and as he soon learned to see that in the ordinary way
of hard work the kingdom Will not be very fast was going on, so
he declined on the last thoughts, he would have his wealth by some
lucky chance extraordinary gain, and since this idea once, by his
fiercely flowing spirit possession, he found room for anything else
is, and he began to sock them with Kaspar as of a certain thing to
talk .

This, the everything Falke said, was for the gospel, told his neighbors,
and soon spread the rumor, Wilm hawk would have been either really
evil for gold, failing or have a comment about this offer of the
lords of the underworld get.

Although initially derided hawk these rumors, but gradually he liked
the idea that any spirit he once could betray a treasure, and he
said no longer resist, if it so that his fellow countrymen aufzogen.

He is still operating his business continued, but with less zeal, and often
lost a large part of the time, otherwise he or fishing with other useful
work zuzubringen used in futile search of some adventure, so he
should suddenly become rich.

Even his misfortune would have it that when one day he stood on the
lonely shore and indefinite hope of moving sea, as if from him is
where his great good fortune come, a big wave at a crowd torn moss
rock and a yellow ball -a ball of gold - rolled to his feet.

Wilm was as charmed so because his hopes were not been empty dreams,
the sea had given him gold, beautiful, pure gold gift, probably the
remnants of a heavy bar, which the waves the seabed up to the size
of a ball off shotgun.

And now it was clearly ahead of his soul that once somewhere on
this coast is a richly laden ship must have failed and that he
ersehen was in the bosom of the ocean buried treasures to raise.

This was now his only desire: His fund carefully, even in front of
his friends hidden so that no other of its discovery on the track
would, he failed everything else and took days and nights on this
coast, where it is not his net after fish, but a specially manufactures
shovel - for gold auswarf.

But he found nothing but poverty, because he deserved nothing more,
and Kaspars sleepy efforts were not out to feed them both.

In search of greater treasures vanished not only found the gold, but
gradually the whole property of the bachelors. But as implied by earlier
Hosiery Falke the best part of his food had to acquire, so he
endured it in silence now, and without murmuring, that the purpose
of that activity he now withdrew, and it is this consent to tender
his friend was what those only further spurred his restless search
for wealth continuing.

What it did, but still active, was that, as often as he lay down to
rest and his eyes closed to sleep, something to him a word whispered
in his ear, which he very clearly be heard and believed the same thing
every time it seemed that but he could never keep. Although he knew not
what this fact, so strange it was, with his current quest to do
so could have, but to a mind like Wilm hawks had everything work,
and also this mysterious whisper helped him to reinforce the belief
that an certainly very lucky that he just in a pile of gold was
hoping to find.

One day a storm surprised him on the shore, where he had found gold
bars, and the ferocity that drove him into a nearby cave to seek
refuge.

This cave, which the inhabitants of the cave Steenfoll call consists
of a long way underground, soft up with two mouths to the open sea
and the waves of a free passage leaves that are resistant with a
loud roar of foaming the same work.

This cave was only accessible in one place, through a column from
the top down, which is rarely used by anyone other than wanton boys
was entered by the dangers of their own place is still the reputation
of Geisterspuks compounded.

Wilm had trouble with in the same down and took some twelve
feet deep from the surface on a protruding stone and under an
overhanging rock unit square, where he met with the roaring waves
under his feet and the storm raging over his head in his habitual
Gedankenzug lapsed, from the ship failed, and what a ship it would
have been liked, because despite all of his inquiries, he had even
the oldest inhabitants of any of these vehicles failed message body
can get.

How long he sat, he himself knew not ; but when he finally awoke from
his reverie, he discovered that the storm had passed, and he wanted to
rise up again just now, when a voice from the depths was heard and
the word Car-mil-han clearly in his ear pierced.

Frightened, he went into the air and looked into the empty abyss
down.

"Great God!" he cried, "that is the word that I'm pursuing in my sleep!
What, for heaven's sake, may it mean?" "Carmilhan!" sighed again up from
the cave, as he's already with one foot, the column had left, and he
fled like a deer contaminated happen to his hut. Wilm memme was however
not the only thing was it came unexpectedly, and his Geldgeiz was
also moreover, too powerful in him than to him any semblance of
danger would have deterrent, on his perilous paths fortzuwandern.

Once when he was late at night at the Moonlight Cave Steenfoll over
with his shovel for treasures fished, remained the same at a time
to hang something.

He pulled out all his might, but the mass remained motionless. Meanwhile
rose the wind, dark clouds covered the sky, the boat rocked violently
and threatened to move, but Wilm was nothing wrong, he pulled and
pulled until resistance ceased, and since he felt no weight, he
believed would be his rope broke.

But just as the clouds above the moons would move in together, appeared
a round black mass on the surface, and it pursued him sounded the word
Carmilhan! Hastily, he wanted to take after her, but just as quickly as
he ausstreckte then the arm, they disappeared into the darkness of the
night, and just gonna break loose storm forced him, under the rocks
nearby to seek refuge. Here he slept before fatigue, to sleep in, by
an unbridled imagination tormented, anew the agony to endure, it's
restless quest for wealth during the day could suffer.

The first rays of the rising sun fell upon the now quiet reflection
of the sea, as Falke awoke.

Also, he wanted out again at the usual work, as he somewhat distant
towards him saw. He realized it soon for a in the same boat, and a human
figure, but what attracted his biggest surprise was that the vehicle
is without a sail or Rowing continue moving, with the beak swept against
the shore, and without that the figure is seated in the lowest tax
seemed to trouble if it was a yes.

The boat was getting closer and closer and finally stopped the vehicle
beside Wilms silent. The person shown in the same now as a small,
verschrumpftes old males, which was dressed in yellow canvas with red,
in the amount thereof nightcap, with closed eyes and motionless like a
corpse sitting dried. After he called in vain, and had pushed, he just
wanted a rope fastened to the boat and it left, as the male eyes and
began to move in a manner which even the most daring fishermen filled
with horror. "Where am I ? asked after a deep sigh in Dutch. hawk, which
from the Dutch Heringsfängern something had learned their language, gave
him the name of the island and asked who he was and what it hierhergebracht.
"I come to after Carmilhan to seen. "" The Carmilhan? For God's sake,
what is it? " cried the eager fisherman. "I give no answer to
questions that I'm doing in this way," replied the man with visible
anxiety. "Well," cried hawk, "what is the Carmilhan?" "The Carmilhan
is now nothing, But once she was a beautiful ship, laden with more gold
than ever to take another vehicle. "" Where was it used and when? "" It
was a hundred years ago, where I do not know exactly, I come to the
office reside and the lost gold aufzufischen, wilt thou help me, so
we want to share the find. "" With all my heart, tell me, what should I
do? "" What you need to do requires courage; thee thou must straight
before midnight in the wildest and most isolated region on the island go,
accompanied by a cow, then you kill yourself and someone in their fresh
skin wrap can have. Dein companion then you must resign and leave,
and before it a proposed clock Do you know where the treasures of the
Carmilhan lie. "This was the Engrol old son with heart and soul to
perdition!" Wilm cried with horror. "You're the evil spirit," he
continued, he hastily davonruderte, "go to hell, I like nothing
with thee to do."

The man gritted, railed and cursed him by, but the fishermen, one of
two rowing grabbed was except he heard and soon after he bent around
a rock, even from the history. But the discovery that the evil spirit
to capitalize on his meanness and with gold in his snares to lure
examined, healed the blind Fischer not, on the contrary, he believed
the message of the yellow man to be able to use without having to
transmit the evil, and he continued, on the barren coast of gold
to fish, he neglected the prosperity that the rich fish he trains
in other areas darboten of the sea, and all other funds to which
he formerly used his hard work, and sank from day to light, together
with his companions into deeper poverty, often until it finally to
the most essential needs of life began to be missing.

But although this decline entirely hawks obstinacy and wrong desire
had to be ascribed to both the diet and now Kaspar hosiery alone anheimfiel,
so this made him but never the slightest accusation, yes, he testified
he is still the same submission, the same confidence in his mind
better than at the time, where his ventures were successful at all
times and this circumstance increased hawks a great suffering, but
drove him even more, to search for gold, because it is hoped, also
his friend for his current spare indemnify them.

It haunted him the devilish whisper of the word Carmilhan still in his
slumber. In short, misery, deceived expectation and greed drove him as
a sort of madness, so that he really decided to do what he advised
the male, although he moved to the old legend probably knew that
he was thus the forces of darkness over.

  Kaspars All arguments were in vain.
        Falke was just so intense, the more
  that he sacrifice his desperate
        abzustehen projects, and the good,
  weak man finally agreed to accompany him
        and leave him his plan to help.
  Their hearts were in pain
        together, when they have a
  rope around the horns of a beautiful
        cow, its last property, provided that they raised from calving and
they always refused to sell because it's not heart could bring them
into foreign hands to see.

  But the evil spirit, which is Wilms bemeisterte,
        suffocating all better feelings
  in him, and Kaspar knew him not to
        resist. It was in September,
  and the long nights of winter schottländischen
        had begun.
  How could
any one conceivably know anything about the Thirty-Mile Ride having
anything to do with you, unless he had been there?"

"But where? But where? Tell me!"

"There--wherever it may be--in our country, I suppose. Do you remember
the first time you rode it--the Thirty-Mile Ride, I mean? You must."

"It was all dreams--all dreams!"

"Yes, but tell, please; because I know."

"Let me think. I--we were on no account to make any noise--on no account
to make any noise." She was staring between Dandy's ears, with eyes that
did not see, and a suffocating heart.

"Because 'It' was dying in the big house?" Georgie went on, reining in
again.

"There was a garden with green-and-gilt railings--all hot. Do you
remember?"

"I ought to. I was sitting on the other side of the bed before 'It'
coughed and 'They' came in."

"You!"--the deep voice was unnaturally full and strong, and the girl's
wide-opened eyes burned in the dusk as she stared him through and
through. "Then you're the Boy--my Brushwood Boy, and I've known you all
my life!"

She fell forward on Dandy's neck. Georgie forced himself out of the
weakness that was overmastering his limbs, and slid an arm round her
waist. The head dropped on his shoulder, and he found himself with
parched lips saying things that up till then he believed existed only in
printed works of fiction. Mercifully the horses were quiet. She made
no attempt to draw herself away when she recovered, but lay still,
whispering, "Of course you're the Boy, and I didn't know--I didn't
know."

"I knew last night; and when I saw you at breakfast--"

"Oh, that was why! I wondered at the time. You would, of course."

"I couldn't speak before this. Keep your head where it is, dear. It's
all right now--all right now, isn't it?"

"But how was it I didn't know--after all these years and years? I
remember--oh, what lots of things I remember!"

"Tell me some. I'll look after the horses."

"I remember waiting for you when the steamer came in. Do you?"

"At the Lily Lock, beyond Hong-Kong and Java?"

"Do you call it that, too?"

"You told me it was when I was lost in the continent. That was you that
showed me the way through the mountains?"

"When the islands slid? It must have been, because you're the only one I
remember. All the others were 'Them.'

"Awful brutes they were, too."

"I remember showing you the Thirty-Mile Ride the first time. You ride
just as you used to--then. You are you!"

"That's odd. I thought that of you this afternoon. Isn't it wonderful?"

"What does it all mean? Why should you and I of the millions of people
in the world have this--this thing between us? What does it mean? I'm
frightened."

"This!" said Georgie. The horses quickened their pace. They thought they
had heard an order. "Perhaps when we die we may find out more, but it
means this now."

There was no answer. What could she say? As the world went, they had
known each other rather less than eight and a half hours, but the matter
was one that did not concern the world. It was in November .-- Ines could
finally no longer doubt that they should be mother, own mother of a
child.

But to the delight, the sense in which they overcome, soon joined
another.

As an eerie darkness lay on it, from the beginning is a bad idea
like a snake up wand.

She sought him away, they fled in front of him to all the good spirits
of their house, but he pursued it, he came again and again and
always powerful.

Was it not only from the outside like a stranger in this house which
would be without a ready to be included in life - And a second
marriage - was there ever one?

Had the first, only, not to the death of both to continue - not
only to the death!

Even more - continue for all eternity! And if that? - The hot embers beat
her in the face; lacerate himself, took them to the harshest words
.-- your child - an intruder, it would be a bastard in his own home
his father, as she went around destroyed, and their young happiness
and sorrows bore it alone, and if the one who was entitled to the
next, it is to share with her, she looked worried and questioningly,
then joined her lips, as in fear of death .-- In the Community
bedchamber were the heavy window curtains lowered only through a
narrow gap between the same steel is a strip of moonlight herein.

Don't laugh, dear. I wouldn't tell any one but you, but it's the solemn
truth."

"I knew! You are you. Oh, I knew you'd come some day; but I didn't know
you were you in the least till you spoke."

"Then give me another."

"And you never cared or looked anywhere? Why, all the round world must
have loved you from the very minute they saw you, Boy."

"They kept it to themselves if they did. No; I never cared."

"And we shall be late for dinner--horribly late. Oh, how can I look at
you in the light before your mother--and mine!"

"We'll play you're Miss Lacy till the proper time comes. What's the
shortest limit for people to get engaged? S'pose we have got to go
through all the fuss of an engagement, haven't we?"

"Oh, I don't want to talk about that. It's so commonplace. I've thought
of something that you don't know. I'm sure of it. What's my name?"

"Miri--no, it isn't, by Jove! Wait half a second, and it'll come back
to me. You aren't--you can't? Why, those old tales--before I went to
school! I've never thought of 'em from that day to this. Are you the
original, only Annieanlouise?"

So it could have been preserved, not for love of whom he wrote, but
because of vanity and testimony have been so beloved.

The letters were enough, however, that the Count had appalling scenes with
his wife. If the letters had proved him guilty, had killed the Count. As
the letters were merely an indication, the Count was limited to
harassing his wife and distrustful of her and watch her.

With a plausible excuse was brought to live at home with a spinster
sister who had, it was a fury of hell.

Sure I'll
see you at dinner-time? Sure you won't sneak up to your room, darling,
and leave me all the evening? Good-bye, dear--good-bye."

"Good-bye, Boy, good-bye. Mind the arch! Don't let Rufus bolt into his
stables. Good-bye. Yes, I'll come down to dinner; but--what shall I do
when I see you in the light!"