hill_lynn@hotmail.com

This PG project is dedicated to retired teacher Betty Sheridan,
who introduced me to the "Twins" stories. She generously loaned
this book to be produced for PG.


THE SWISS TWINS

By Lucy Fitch Perkins


Also by Lucy Fitch Perkins

Geographical Series

THE DUTCH TWINS PRIMER. Grade I.

THE DUTCH TWINS AND LITTLE BROTHER. Grade II.

THE FARM TWINS. Grades I-III.

THE ESKIMO TWINS. Grade II.

THE DUTCH TWINS. Grade III.

THE PICKANINNY TWINS. The higher or ruling orders saw, in the plain letter of the Bible,
the means of amending the rude and savage laws which had governed
their forefathers; and religion also afforded the means of improving
the whole fabric of the state.

Grade V.

THE SCOTCH TWINS. Grade VI.

THE SPANISH TWINS. Grades VI-VII.

THE BELGIAN TWINS. Grade VII.

THE FRENCH TWINS. Grade VII.


Historical Series

THE INDIAN TWINS. Grades III-IV.

THE CAVE TWINS. Grade IV.

THE SPARTAN TWINS. Grade V.

THE COLONIAL TWINS OF VIRGINIA. Grade VI.

THE AMERICAN TWINS OF 1812. Grade VI.

THE PIONEER TWINS. Grade VI.

THE AMERICAN TWINS OF THE REVOLUTION. Grade VII.

THE PURITAN TWINS. Grade VII.

Each volume is illustrated by the author

HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY

COPYRIGHT, 1922, BY LUCY FITCH PERKINS

ALL RIGHTS RESERVED INCLUDING THE RIGHT TO REPRODUCE
THIS BOOK OR PARTS THEREOF IN ANY FORM

The Riverside Press

CAMBRIDGE - MASSACHUSETTS

PRINTED IN THE U.S.A.


CONTENTS


I. THE RESPONSIBLE CUCKOO

II. THE TWINS LEARN A NEW TRADE

III. A MOUNTAIN STORM

IV. THE LONELY HERDSMAN

V. THE PASS

VI. NEW FRIENDS AND OLD

This book belongs to


I. THE RESPONSIBLE CUCKOO

THE RESPONSIBLE CUCKOO


High on the kitchen wall of an old farm-house on a mountain-side
in Switzerland there hangs a tiny wooden clock. In the tiny
wooden clock there lives a tiny wooden cuckoo, and every hour he
hops out of his tiny wooden door, takes a look about to see what
is going on in the world, shouts out the time of day, and pops
back again into his little dark house, there to wait and tick
away the minutes until it is time once more to tell the hour.

Late one spring afternoon, just as the sun was sinking out of
sight, lighting up the snow-capped mountains with beautiful
colors and sending long shafts of golden light across the
valleys, the cuckoo woke with a start.

"Bless me!" he said to himself, "Here it is six o'clock and not a
sound in the kitchen! It's high time for Mother Adolf to be
getting supper. What in the world this family would do without me
I really cannot think! They'd never know it was supper time if I
didn't tell them, and would starve to death as likely as not. It
is lucky for them I am such a responsible bird." The tiny wooden
door flew open and he stuck out his tiny wooden head. There was
not a sound in the kitchen but the loud ticking of the clock.

"Just as I thought," said the cuckoo. "Not a soul here."

There stood the table against the kitchen wall, with a little
gray mouse on it nibbling a crumb of cheese. Along finger of
sunlight streamed through the western window and touched the
great stone stove, as if trying to waken the fire within. A beam
fell upon a pan of water standing on the floor and sent gay
sparkles of light dancing over the shining tins in the cupboard.
The cuckoo saw it all at a glance. "This will never do," he
ticked indignantly. There was a queer rumbling sound in his
insides as if his feelings were getting quite too much for him,
and then suddenly he sent a loud "cuckoo" ringing through the
silent room. Instantly the little gray mouse leaped down from the
table and scampered away to his hole in the wall, the golden
sunbeam flickered and was gone, and shadows began to creep into
the corners. "Cuckoo, cuckoo," he shouted at the top of his
voice, "cuckoo, cuckoo, cuckoo,"--six times in all,--and then,
his duty done, he popped back again into his little dark house,
and the door clicked behind him.

Out in the garden Mother Adolf heard him and, raising her head
from the onion-bed, where she was pulling weeds, she counted on
her fingers, "One, two, three, four, five, six! Bless my soul,
six o'clock and the sun already out of sight behind old Pilatus,"
she said, and, rising from her knees a little stiffly, she stood
for a moment looking down the green slopes toward the valley.

Far, far below, the blue waters of Lake Lucerne mirrored the
glowing colors of the mountain-peaks beyond its farther shore,
and nearer, among the foothills of old Pilatus itself, a little
village nestled among green trees, its roofs clustered about a
white church-spire. Now the bells in the steeple began to ring,
and the sound floated out across the green fields spangled with
yellow daffodils, and reached Mother Adolf where she stood. Bells
from more distant villages soon joined in the clamor, until all
the air was filled with music and a hundred echoes woke in the
mountains.

The tiny wooden cuckoo heard them and ticked loudly with
satisfaction. "Everybody follows me," he said to himself proudly.
"I wake all the bells in the world."

"Where can the children be?" said Mother Adolf aloud to herself,
looking about the garden. "I haven't heard a sound from either
the baby or the Twins for over an hour," and, making a hollow
between her lands, she added her own bit of music to the chorus
of the hills.

(line of music notation)

she sang, and immediately from behind the willows which fringed
the brook at the end of the garden two childish voices gave back
an answering strain.

(line of music notation)

A moment later two sunburned, towheaded, blue-eyed children, a
boy and girl of ten, appeared, dragging after them a box mounted
on rough wooden wheels in which there sat a round, pink,
blue-eyed cherub of a baby. Shouting with laughter, they came
tearing up the garden path to their mother's side.

"Hush, my children," said Mother Adolf, laying her finger on her
lips. "It is the Angelus."

The shouts were instantly silenced, and the two children stood
beside the mother with clasped hands and bowed heads until the
echoes of the bells died away in the distance.

Far down on the long path to the village a man, bending under the
weight of a huge basket, also stood still for a moment in silent
prayer, then toiled again up the steep slope.

"See," cried Mother Adolf as she lifted her head, "there comes
Father from the village with bread for our supper in his basket.
Run, Seppi, and help him bring the bundles home. Our Fritz will
soon be coming with the goats, too, and he and Father will both
be as hungry as wolves and in a hurry for their supper. Hark!"
she paused to listen.

Far away from out the blue shadows of the mountain came the sound
of a horn playing a merry little tune.

"There's Fritz now," cried Mother Adolf. "Hurry, Seppi, and you,
Leneli, come with me to the kitchen. You can give little Roseli
her supper, while I spread the table and set the soup to boil
before the goats get here to be milked." She lifted the baby in
her arms as she spoke, and set off at a smart pace toward the
house, followed by Leneli dragging the cart and playing
peek-a-boo with the baby over her mother's shoulder.

When they reached the door, Leneli sat down on the step, and
Mother Adolf put the baby in her arms and went at once into the
quiet house. Then there was a sound of quick steps about the
kitchen, a rattling of the stove, and a clatter of tins which
must have pleased the cuckoo, and soon she reappeared in the door
with a bowl and spoon in her hands.

The bowl she gave to Leneli, and little Roseli, crowing with
delight, seized the spoon and stuck it first into an eye, and
then into her tiny pink button of a nose, in a frantic effort to
find her mouth. It was astonishing to Baby Roseli how that
rosebud mouth of hers managed to hide itself, even though she was
careful to keep it wide open while she searched for it. When she
had explored her whole face with the spoon in vain, Leneli took
the tiny hand in hers and guided each mouthful down the little
red lane.

Over their heads the robin in the cherry tree by the door sat
high up on a twig and chirped a good-night song to his nestlings.
"Cherries are ripe, cherries are ripe, cherries are ripe in
June," sang the robin. At least that is what Leneli told the baby
he said, and surely she ought to know.

Before Baby Roseli had finished the last mouthful of her supper,
Father and Seppi appeared with the bundles, and then there was
the clatter of many little hoofs on the hard earth of the
door-yard, and round the corner of the old gray farm-house came
big brother Fritz with the goats. With Fritz came Bello, his
faithful dog, barking and wagging his tail for joy at getting
home again. Bello ran at once to Leneli and licked her hand,
nearly upsetting the bowl of milk in his noisy greeting, and the
baby crowed with delight and seized him by his long, silky ears.

"Down, Bello, down," cried Leneli, holding the bowl high out of
reach; "you'll spill the baby's supper!" And Bello, thinking she
meant that he should beg for it, sat up on his hind legs with his
front paws crossed and barked three times, as Fritz had taught
him to do.

"He must have a bite or he'll forget his manners," laughed Fritz,
and Leneli broke off a crumb of bread and tossed it to him. Bello
caught it before it fell, swallowed it at one gulp, and begged
for more.

"No, no," said Leneli, "good old Bello, go now with Fritz and
help him drive the goats to the milking-shed, and by and by you
shall have your supper."

Fritz whistled, and instantly Bello was off like a shot after
Nanni, the brown goat, who was already on her way to the garden
to eat the young green carrot-tops she saw peeping out of the
ground.

"It's time that child was in bed," said the cuckoo to himself,
and out he came from his little house and called "cuckoo" seven
times so reproachfully that Leneli hastened upstairs with the
baby and put her down in her crib at once.

Baby Roseli did not agree with the cuckoo. She wanted to stay up
and play with Bello, and hear the robin sing, but Leneli sat down
beside the crib, and while Mother Adolf milked the goats she sang
over and over again an old song.

	"Sleep, baby, sleep!

	Thy father watches the sheep,

	Thy mother is shaking the dreamland tree

	And down falls a little dream on thee.

	Sleep, baby, sleep!"


	"Sleep, baby, sleep!

	The large stars are the sheep,

	The little stars are the lambs, I guess,

	And the silver moon is the shepherdess.

	Sleep, baby, sleep!"

Over and over she sang it, until at last the heavy lids closed
over the blue eyes. Then she crept quietly down the creaking
stairs in the dark, and ate her bread and cheese and drank her
soup by candle-light with her father and mother, Seppi and Fritz,
all seated about the kitchen table.

By nine o'clock the room was once more silent and deserted, the
little mouse was creeping quietly from his hole in the wall, and
Bello lay by the door asleep with his nose on his paws. High over
Mt. Pilatus the moon sailed through the star-lit sky, bathing the
old gray farm-house in silver light and playing hide and seek
with shadows on the snow-capped peaks.

"Cuckoo," called the tiny wooden cuckoo nine times, and at once
the bells in the village steeple answered him. "That's as it
should be," ticked the cuckoo. "That church-bell is really very
intelligent. Let me see; to-morrow morning I must wake the
roosters at three, and the sun at four, and the family must be up
by five. I'll just turn in and get a wink of sleep myself while I
can," and he popped into the clock ones more and shut the door.


II. THE TWINS LEARN A NEW TRADE

THE TWINS LEARN A NEW TRADE


At five o'clock the next morning Father and Mother Adolf were
already up, and the cuckoo woke Fritz, but though he shouted five
times with all his might and main, neither Seppi nor Leneli
stirred in their sleep.

"Fritz, go wake the Twins," said Mother Adolf, when he came to
the door of the shed where she was milking the goats. "Only don't
wake the baby. I want her to sleep as long as she will."

"Yes, Mother," said Fritz dutifully, and he was off at once,
leaping up the creaky stairs three steps at a time.

He went first to Leneli's bed and tickled her toes. She drew up
her knees and slept on. Then he went to Seppi's bed, and when
shaking and rolling over failed to rouse him, he took him by one
leg and pulled him out of bed. Seppi woke up with a roar and cast
himself upon Fritz, and in a moment the two boys were rolling
about on the floor, yelling like Indians. The uproar woke Leneli,
and the baby too, and Mother Adolf, hearing the noise, came
running from the goat-shed just in time to find Seppi sitting on
top of Fritz beating time on his stomach to a tune which he was
singing at the top of his lungs. The baby was crowing with
delight as she watched the scuffle from Leneli's arms.

Mother Adolf gazed upon this lively scene with dismay. Then she
picked Seppi off Fritz's stomach and gazed sternly at her oldest
son. "Fritz," said she, "I told you to be quiet and not wake the
baby."

"I was quiet," said Fritz, sitting up. "I was just as quiet as I
could be, but they wouldn't wake up that way, so I had to pull
Seppi out of bed; there was no other way to get him up." He
looked up at his mother with such honest eyes that in spite of
herself her lips twitched and then she smiled outright.

"I should have known better than to send such a great overgrown
pup of a boy as you on such an errand," she said. "Bello would
have done it better. Next time I shall send him.

"And now, since you are all awake, I will tell you the great news
that Father told me last night. He has been chosen by the commune
to take the herds of the village up to the high alps to be gone
all summer. He will take Fritz with him to guard the cattle while
he makes the cheese. There is no better cheese-maker in all the
mountains than your father, and that is why the commune chose
him," she finished proudly.

More than anything else in the world, every boy in that part of
Switzerland longs to go with the herds to the high mountain
pastures for the summer, and Fritz was so delighted that he
turned a somersault at once to express his feelings. When he was
right side up again, a puzzled look came over his face, and he
said, "Who will take care of our own goats?"

"Ah," answered his mother, and she sighed a little. "There is no
one but Seppi and Leneli. Together they must fill your place, and
you, Fritz, must take them with you to-day up the mountain to
learn the way and begin their work."

"To-day! This very day?" screamed the Twins. They had never been
up to the goat-pastures in their lives, and it was a most
exciting event.

Then Leneli thought of her mother. She flung her arms about her
neck. "But who will stay with you, dear Mother?" she cried. "All
day you will be alone, with everything to do and no one to speak
to but the baby."

"Yes," sighed the mother, "that is true. It will be a long,
lonely summer for me, but there is no other way, so we must each
do our part bravely and not complain. It is good fortune that
Father and Fritz will both be earning money in the alps, and,
with wise old Bello to help you, you will soon be as good
goatherds as your brother. Come, now, hurry and eat your
breakfasts, for the goats are already milked and impatient to be
gone."

She took Roseli in her arms and disappeared down the stairs, and
when, a few moments later, the Twins and Fritz came into the
kitchen, she had their breakfast of bread and milk ready for
them, and their luncheon of bread and cheese wrapped in a clean
white cloth for Fritz to put in his pocket.

Father Adolf came back from the garden, where he had been hoeing
potatoes, to see the little procession start away for the hills.
First came the goats, frisking about in the fresh morning air and
jingling all their bells. Then came Bello, looking very
important, then Fritz with a cock's feather in his cap and his
little horn and his cup slung over his shoulder, and last of all
the Twins.

"It's a long way, my children," said Mother Adolf, as she kissed
them good-bye. "Your legs will get tired, but you must climb on
just the same. If every one stopped when he was tired, the
world's work would never be done. Learn the way carefully and
remember always to pray if any danger comes. You are very near
the good God on the mountain, and He will take care of you if you
ask Him, never fear."

"Obey Fritz," said Father Adolf, "and do not stray off by
yourselves. Stay always with Fritz and the goats."

"We will," cried the Twins, and away they ran to join their
brother, who was already some little distance ahead of them. They
turned as the path rounded the great cliff where the echoes
lived, and the Twins waved their hands, while Fritz played his
merry little tune on the horn. Then the rocks hid them from view,
and the long climb began in earnest.

It was many rough uphill miles to the alps where the goats were
pastured, and the stout little legs ached with weariness long
before they reached the patches of green grass which were
reserved for them. On the way up they passed fields where cows
were grazing, and Bello had hard work to keep the goats in the
path, but these pastures were only for cows, and goats were not
allowed in them. For two hours they climbed steadily up and up,
following a mountain path that led sometimes beside a rushing
brook, sometimes along the edges of dizzy precipices, and always
among rocks with wonderful views of distant snow-capped peaks
above them and green, green valleys below.

At last, when it seemed to the weary children that they could not
go another step, they came out upon a high pasture, where Fritz
called a halt. The goats leaped joyfully forward, snatching
greedy mouthfuls of the rich green grass which grew among the
rocks. Bello flopped heavily down on a flat stone with his tongue
hanging out, and Fritz and the Twins rolled over on their backs
on a soft carpet of grass to rest.

Almost at once Seppi said, "I'm hungry."

"So 'm I," said Leneli.

"You'll be hungry all the time up here," said Fritz
encouragingly. "It's the air."

"Let's eat," urged Seppi.

Fritz took the package of luncheon from his pocket and opened it.

"It looks very small. It looks a great deal smaller than it did
at home," said Leneli. "I wonder why?"

"You are hungrier now than you were then," said Fritz.

"I could eat it all myself," said Seppi.

"But you won't," laughed Fritz; "I'll see to that." He divided
the bread and cheese into three equal portions and handed one to
each of the Twins. The third he put in his own pocket. "Now I
don't care what you do with yours," he said; "only, if you eat it
all now, you'll be hungry enough to browse with the goats before
it's time to go home. Better take just a bite and a drink of
water and eat more by and by."

Seppi looked hungrily at his portion and took a bite. Then he
just couldn't stop, and before he knew it his whole luncheon was
gone and it was only nine o'clock in the morning!

Leneli took two bites of hers, and then, wrapping it carefully in
the piece of cloth, placed it high up on an overhanging rock out
of the way of temptation. He kissed her again and again, stroking
her hair, then he said that he was tired, very tired--he'd sleep
to-night. He went slowly upstairs.

He undressed rapidly, flinging off his clothes as though they hurt
him.

As though some one else had unexpectedly come into the room, he saw
himself standing before the long glass in the dressing-room, naked
save for his vest. He looked at himself and laughed.

How funny he looked only in his vest--how funny were he to walk
down the High Street like that! They would say he was mad. And
yet he wouldn't be mad. He would be just as he was now. He
pulled the vest off over his head and continued to stare at himself.

It was as though he were looking at some one else's body.
The long toes, the strong legs, the thick thighs, the broad
hairless chest, the stout red neck--and then those eyes, surely
not his, those strange ironical eyes!

He passed his hand down his side and felt the cool strong marble
of his flesh. Then suddenly he was cold and he hurried into
his night-shirt and his dressing-gown.

He sat on his bed. Something deep down in him was struggling to
come up.
Some thought...some feeling...some name.

Falk! It was as though a bell were ringing, at a great distance,
in the sleeping town--but ringing only for him. Falk! The pain,
the urgent pain, crept closer. Falk!

He got up from his bed, opened his door, looked out into the dark
and silent house, stepped forward, carefully, softly, his old red
dressing-gown close about him, stumbling a little on the stairs,
feeling the way to his study door.

He sat in his arm-chair huddled up. "Falk! Falk! Oh, my boy, my
boy, come back, come back! I want you, I want to be with
you, to see you, to touch you, to hear your voice! I want
to love you!

"Love--Love! I never wanted love before, but now I want it,
desperately, desperately, some one to love me, some one for me to
love, some one to be kind to.

Falk, my boy. I'm so lonely. It's so dark. I can't see things as I
did. It's getting darker.

"Falk, come back and help me...."

Chapter III
Prelude to Battle

That night he slept well and soundly, and in the morning woke
tranquil and refreshed. His life seemed suddenly to have
taken a new turn. As he lay there and watched the sunlight run
through the lattices like strands of pale-coloured silk, it seemed
to him that he was through the worst. He did what he had not
done for many days, allowed the thought of his wife to come and
dwell with him.

He went over many of their past years together, and, nodding his
head, decided that he had been often to blame.

Then the further thought of what she had done, of her adultery, of
her last letter, these like foul black water came sweeping up
and darkened his mind.... No more. No more. He must do as he
had done. Think only of Pybus.

Fight that, win his victory, and then turn to what lay behind.
But the sunlight no longer danced for him, he closed his eyes,
turned on his side, and prayed to God out of his bewilderment.

After breakfast he started out. A restless urgency drove him
forth. The Chapter Meeting at which the new incumbent of Pybus was
to be chosen was now only three days distant, and all the work
in connection with that was completed--but Brandon could not be
still.

Some members of the Chapter he had seen over and over again
during the last months, and had pressed Rex Forsyth's claims upon
them without ceasing, but this thing had become a symbol to him
now--a symbol of his fight with Ronder, of his battle for the
Cathedral, of his championship, behind that, of the whole cause of
Christ's Church.

It seemed to him that if he were defeated now in this thing it
would mean that God Himself had deserted him. At the mere thought
of defeat his heart began to leap in his breast and the flags of
the pavement to run before his eyes. But it could not be. He had
been tested; like Job, every plague had been given to him to
prove him true, but this last would shout to the world that his
power was gone and that the Cathedral that he loved had no longer
a place for him. And then--and then-----
He would not, he must not, look. At the top of the High Street
he met Ryle the Precentor. There had been a time when Ryle was
terrified by the Archdeacon; that time was not far distant, but
it was gone.

Nevertheless, even though the Archdeacon were suddenly old and
sick and unimportant, you never could tell but that he might say
something to somebody that it would be unpleasant to have said.

"Politeness all the way round" was Ryle's motto, and a very safe
one too.

Moreover, Ryle, when he could rise above his alarm for the safety
of his own position, was a kindly man, and it really _was_
sad to see the poor Archdeacon so pale and tired, the scratch
on his cheek, even now not healed, giving him a strangely battered
appearance.

And how would Ryle have liked Mrs. Ryle to leave him? And how would he
feel if his son, Anthony (aged at present five), ran away with the
daughter of a publican? And how, above all, would he feel did he
know that the whole town was talking about him and saying "Poor
Precentor!"? But perhaps the Archdeacon did _not_ know. Strange
the things that people did not know about themselves!

--and at that thought the Precentor went goose-fleshy all over,
because of the things that at that very moment people might be
saying about _him_ and he knowing none of them!

All this passed very swiftly through Ryle's mind, and was quickly
strangled by hearing Brandon utter in quite his old
knock-you-down-if-you- don't-get-out-of-my-way voice, "Ha! Ryle!
Out early this morning! I hope you're not planning any more
new-fangled musical schemes for us!"
Oh, well! if the Archdeacon were going to take that sort of tone
with him, Ryle simply wasn't going to stand it! Why should he?
To-day isn't six months ago.

"That's all right, Archdeacon," he said stiffly. "Ronder and I go
through a good deal of the music together now. He's very musical,
you know. Every one seems quite satisfied."

_That_ ought to get him--my mention of Ronder's name....

At the same time Ryle didn't wish to seem to have gone over to the
other camp altogether, and he was just about to say something gently
deprecatory of Ronder when, to his astonishment, he perceived that
Brandon simply hadn't heard him at all!

And then the Archdeacon took his arm and marched with him
down the High Street.

"With regard to this Pybus business, Precentor," he was saying,
"the matter now will be settled in another three days. I hope
every one realises the extreme seriousness of this audacious
plot to push a heretic like this man Wistons into the place.

I'm sure that every one _does_ realise it. There can be no two
opinions about it, of course. At the same time----"
How very uncomfortable! There had been a time when the Precentor
would have been proud indeed to walk down the High Street
arm-in-arm with the Archdeacon. But that time was past. The
High Street was crowded. Any one might see them. They would take
it for granted that the Precentor was of the Archdeacon's party.
And to be seen thus affectionately linked with the Archdeacon
just now, when his family affairs were in so strange a disorder,
when he himself was behaving so oddly, when, as it was whispered,
at the Jubilee Fair he had engaged in a scuffle of a most
disreputable kind.

The word "Drink" was mentioned.

Ryle tried, every so gently, to disengage his arm. Brandon's
hand was of steel.

"This seems to me," the Archdeacon was continuing, "a most critical
moment in our Cathedral's history.

If we don't stand together now we--we--"
The Archdeacon's hand relaxed. His eyes wandered. Ryle detached
his arm.
How strange the man was! Why, there was Samuel Hogg on the other
side of the street!

He had taken his hat off and was smiling.

How uncomfortable! How unpleasant to be mixed in this kind of
encounter! How Mrs. Ryle, would dislike it if she knew!

But his mind was speedily taken off his own affairs. He was
conscious of the Archdeacon, standing at his full height, his
eyes, as he afterwards described it a thousand times, "bursting
from his head." Then, "before you could count two," the Archdeacon
was striding across the street.

It was a sunny morning, people going about their ordinary business,
every one smiling and happy. Suddenly Ryle saw the Archdeacon
stop in front of Hogg; himself started across the street,
urged he knew not by what impulse, saw Hogg's ugly sneering face,
saw the Archdeacon's arm shoot out, catch Hogg one, two terrific
blows in the face, saw Hogg topple over like a heap of clothes
falling from their peg, was in time to hear the Archdeacon crying
out, "You dirty spy!

You'd set upon me from behind, would you? Afraid to meet me face
to face, are you? Take that, then, and that!" And then shout,
"It's daylight! It's daylight now! Stand up and face me, you
coward!"
The next thing of which the terrified Ryle was conscious was that
people were running up from all sides.

They seemed to spring from nowhere. He saw, too, how Hogg,
the blood streaming from his face, lay there on his back,
not attempting to move. Some were bending down behind him, holding
his head, others had their hands about Brandon, holding him back.
Errand- boys were running, people were hurrying from the shops,
voices raised on every side--a Constable slowly crossed the
street--Ryle slipped away--
Joan had gone out at once after breakfast that morning to the
little shop, Miss Milligan's, in the little street behind the
Precincts, to see whether she could not get some of that really
fresh fruit that only Miss Milligan seemed able to obtain.

She was for some little time in the shop, because Miss Milligan
always had a great deal to say about her little nephew Benjie,
who was at the School as a day-boy and was likely to get a
scholarship, and was just now suffering from boils.

Joan was a good listener and a patient, so that it was quite
late--after ten o'clock--as she hurried back.

Just by the Arden Gate Ellen Stiles met her.

"Oh, you poor child!" she cried; "aren't you at home? I
was just hurrying up to see whether I could be of any sort of help
to you!"

"Any help?" echoed Joan, seeing at once, in the nodding blue
plume in Ellen's hat, forebodings of horrible disaster.

"What, haven't you heard?" cried Ellen, pitying from the bottom
of her heart the child's white face and terrified eyes.

"No! What? Oh, tell me quickly! What has happened? To father--"

"I don't know exactly myself," said Ellen. "That's what I was
hurrying up to find out....

Your father...he's had some sort of fight with that horrible man
Hogg in the High Street.... No, I don't know...But wait a minute...."

Joan was gone, scurrying through the Precincts, the paper bag
with the fruit clutched tightly to her.

Ellen Stiles stared after her; her eyes were dim with kindness.
There was nothing now that she would not do for that girl and
her poor father!

Knocked down to the ground they were, and Ellen championed them
wherever she went. And now this! Drink or madness--perhaps both!
Poor man! Poor man! And that child, scarcely out of the cradle,
with all this on her shoulders! Ellen would do anything for
them! She would go round later in the day and see how she
could be useful.

She turned away. It was Ronder now who was "up"...and a little
pulling- down would do him no sort of harm.

There were a few little things she was longing, herself, to
tell him. A few home-truths. Then, half-way down the High
Street, she met Julia Preston, and didn't they have a lot to
say about it all!

Meanwhile Joan, in another moment, was at her door. What had
happened? Oh, what had happened? Had he been brought back dying
and bleeding? Had that horrible man set upon him, there in the
High Street, while every one was about? Was the doctor there,
Mr. Puddifoot?

Would there perhaps have to be an operation? This would kill her
father. The disgrace.... She let herself in with her latch-key
and stood in the familiar hall. Everything was just as it had
always been, the clocks ticking. She could hear the Cathedral
organ faintly through the wall. The drawing-room windows were open,
and she could hear the birds, singing at the sun, out there in
the Precincts.
Everything as it always was. She could not understand. Gladys
appeared from the kitchen.

"Oh, Gladys, here is the fruit.... Has father come in?"
"I don't know, miss."
"You haven't heard him?"
"No, miss. I've been upstairs, 'elping with the beds."

"Oh--thank you, Gladys."
The terror slipped away from her. Then it was all right. Ellen
Stiles had, as usual, exaggerated.

After all, she had not been there. She had heard it only at
second-hand. She hesitated for a moment, then went to the
study door.

Outside she hesitated again, then she went in.

To her amazement her father was sitting, just as he had always sat,
at his table. He looked up when she entered, there was no sign
upon him of any trouble. His face was very white, stone-white,
and it seemed to her that for months past the colour had
been draining from it, and now at last all colour was gone. A man
wearing a mask. She could fancy that he would put up his hands
and suddenly slip it from him and lay it down upon the table.
The eyes stared through it, alive, coloured, restless.

"Well, Joan, what is it?"
She stammered, "Nothing, father.

I only wanted to see--whether--that--"
"Yes? Is any one wanting to see me?"
"No--only some one told me that you...I thought--"
"You heard that I chastised a ruffian in the town?

You heard correctly. I did. He deserved what I gave him."
A little shiver shook her.

"Is that all you want to know?"

"Isn't there anything, father, I can do?"
"Nothing--except leave me just now. I'm very busy. I have letters
to write."
She went out. She stood in the hall, her hands clasped together.
What was she to do? The worst that she had ever feared had
occurred. He was mad.

She went into the drawing-room, where the sun was blazing as
though it would set the carpet on fire. What _was_ she to do?
What _ought_ she to do?

Should she fetch Puddifoot or some older woman like Mrs.
Combermere, who would be able to advise her? Oh, no. She wanted
no one there who would pity him. She felt a longing, urgent
desire to keep him always with her now, away from the world, in
some corner where she could cherish and love him and allow no one
to insult and hurt him.

But madness!

To her girlish inexperience this morning's acts could be nothing
but madness. There in the middle of the High Street, with every
one about, to do such a thing! The disgrace of it! Why, now,
they could never stay in Polchester....

This was worse than everything that had gone before. How they would
all talk, Canon Ronder and all of them, and how pleased they
would be!

At that she clenched her hands and drew herself up as though she
were defying the whole of Polchester. They should not laugh
at him, they should not dare!...

But meanwhile what immediately was she to do?

It wasn't safe to leave him alone. Now that he had gone so far
as to knock some one down in the principal street, what might he
not do?

What would happen if he met Canon Ronder? Oh! why had this come?

What had they done to deserve this?

What had _he_ done when he had always been so good?

She seemed for a little distracted. She could not think.
Her thoughts would not come clearly. She waited, staring into
the sun and the colour.
Quietness came to her. Her life was now his. Nothing counted
in her life but that. If they must leave Polchester she would go
with him wherever he must go, and care for him. Johnny! For
one terrible instant he seemed to stand, a figure of flame,
outside there on the sun-drenched grass.

Outside! Yes, always outside, until her father did not need her any
more.

Then, suddenly she wanted Johnny so badly that she crumpled up
into one of the old arm-chairs and cried and cried and cried.
She was very young. Life ahead of her seemed very long.

Yes, she cried her heart out, and then she went upstairs and washed
her face and wrote to Falk.

She would not telegraph until she was quite sure that she could
not manage it by herself.

The wonderful morning changed to a storm of wind and rain. Such a
storm!
Down in the basement Cook could scarcely hear herself speak! As
she said to Gladys, it was what you must expect now. They were
slipping into Autumn, and before you knew, why, there would be
Winter!

Nothing odder than the sudden way the Seasons took you! But Cook
didn't like storms in that house. "Them Precincts 'ouses, they're
that old, they'd fall on top of you as soon as whistle Trefusis!
For her part she'd always thought this 'ouse queer, and it wasn't
any the less queer since all these things had been going on in it."

It was at this point that the grocery "boy" arrived and supposed
they'd 'eard all about it by that time. All about what? Why,
the Archdeacon knocking Samuel 'Ogg down in the 'Igh Street that
very morning!

Then, indeed, you could have knocked Cook down, as she said,
with a whisper. Collapsed her so, that she had to sit down and
take a cup of tea, the kettle being luckily on the boil. Gladys
had to sit down and take one too, and there they sat, the grocer's
boy dismissed, in the darkening kitchen, their heads close
together, and starting at every hiss of the rain upon the coals.
The house hung heavy and dark above them.

Mad, that's what he must be, and going mad these past ever so many
months.

And such a fine man too! But knocking people down in the street,
and 'im such a man for his own dignity!

'Im an Archdeacon too. 'Ad any one ever heard in their lives of
an Archdeacon doing such a thing? Well, that settled
Cook.
She'd been in the house ten solid years, but at the end of the month
she'd be off.

To sit in the house with a madman!

Not she! Adultery and all the talk had been enough, but she had
risked her good name and all, just for the sake of that poor young
thing upstairs, but madness!--no, that was another pair of
shoes.

Now Gladys was peculiar. She'd given her notice, but hearing
this, she suddenly determined to stay.

That poor Miss Joan! Poor little worm! So young and innocent--shut
up all alone with her mad father.

Gladys would see her through--
"Why, Gladys," cried Cook, "what will your young feller you're
walkin' with say?"

"If 'e don't like it 'e can lump it," said Gladys. "Lord, 'ow this
house does rattle!"
All the afternoon of that day Brandon sat, never moving from his
study- table. He sat exultant.

Some of the shame had been wiped away. He could feel again the
riotous happiness that had surged up in him as he struck that
face, felt it yield before him, saw it fade away into dust
and nothingness. That face that had for all these months
been haunting him, at last he had banished it, and with it had
gone those other leering faces that had for so long kept him company.

His room was dark, and it was always in the dark that they came
to him--Hogg's, the drunken painter's, that old woman's in the
dirty dress.

And to-day they did not come.

If they came he would treat them as he had treated Hogg. That
was the way to deal with them!

His heart was bad, fluttering, stampeding, pounding and then
dying away.

He walked about the room that he might think less of it. Never
mind his heart! Destroy his enemies, that's what he had
to do--these men and women who were the enemies of himself, his
town and his Cathedral.

Suddenly he thought that he would go out. He got his hat and his
coat and went into the rain.

He crossed the Green and let himself into the Cathedral by the Saint
Margaret Chapel door, as he had so often done before.

The Cathedral was very dark, and he stumbled about, knocking against
pillars and hassocks. He was strange here. It was as though he didn't
know the place. He got into the middle of the nave, and positively he
didn't know where he was. A faint green light glimmered in the East
end. There were chairs in his way. He stood still, listening.

He was lost. He would never find his way out again. _His_ Cathedral,
and he was lost! Figures were moving everywhere. They jostled him and
said nothing. The air was thick and hard to breathe. Here was
the Black Bishop's Tomb. He let his fingers run along the metal
work.

How cold it was! His hand touched the cold icy beard! His hand
stayed there. He could not remove it. His fingers stuck.

He tried to cry out, and he could say nothing. An icy hand, gauntleted,
descended upon his and held it. He tried to scream. He could
not.

He shouted. His voice was a whisper. He sank upon his knees. He
fainted, slipping to the ground like a man tired out.
There, half an hour later, Lawrence found him.

Chapter IV
The Last Tournament
On the morning of the Chapter Meeting Ronder went in through the
West door, intending to cross the nave by the Cloisters. Just as
he closed the heavy door behind him there sprang up, close to him,
as though from nowhere at all, that horrible man Davray. Horrible
always to Ronder, but more horrible now because of the dreadful way
in which he had, during the last few months, gone tumbling downhill.
There had been, until lately, a certain austerity and even nobility
in the man's face. That was at last completely swept away. This
morning he looked as though he had been sleeping out all night, his
face yellow, his eyes bloodshot, his hair tangled and unkempt,
pieces of grass clinging to his well-worn grey flannel suit.
"Good morning, Canon Ronder," he said.
"Good morning," Ronder replied severely, and tried to pass on. But
the man stood in his way.
"I'm not going to keep you," he said. "I know what your business
is this morning. I wouldn't keep you from it for a single moment.
I know what you're going to do. You're going to get rid of that
damned Archdeacon.
Finish him for once and all. Stamp on him so that he can never raise
up his beautiful head again. I know. It's fine work you've been
doing ever since you came here, Canon Ronder. But it isn't you
that's been doing it.
It's the Cathedral."
"Please let me pass," said Ronder. "I haven't any time just now to
spare."
"Ah, that hurts your pride. You like to think it's you who's been
the mighty fine fellow all this time. Well, it isn't you at all.
It's the Cathedral. The Cathedral's jealous, you know--don't like
its servants taking all the credit to themselves. Pride's dangerous,
Canon Ronder. In a year or two's time, when you're feeling pretty
pleased with yourself, you just look back on the Archdeacon's history
for a moment and consider it.
It may have a lesson for you. Good morning, Canon Ronder. Pleased
to have met you."
The wretched creature went slithering up the aisle, chuckling to
himself.
How miserable to be drunk at that early hour of the morning!It had been a day of
tremendous surprises to Bello. First Fritz had left him; then
came the thunder-storm; then starting home in the middle of the
day instead of at the proper time; and now the path itself was
gone! No wonder he was bewildered. Seppi dashed down to the
water's edge and drove the goats up the trail again himself, and
while they snatched stray mouthfuls here and there about the pine
tree, he and Leneli sat down under it to think.

"We can't get home that way; that's certain," said Seppi,
pointing to the buried pass.

"And we can't stay here either," moaned Leneli; "not if there is
a way out in any direction."

"There's the path Father and Fritz took this morning," said
Seppi. "We might try that. It must go somewhere."

"Perhaps that is blocked too," said Leneli.

"I'll go a little way and see," said Seppi. "You stay here and
watch the goats."

"Give me your horn, then," said Leneli; "and I'll blow it every
little while so you can find your way back. You know Father
always tells us not to leave the path because it's so easy to get
lost."

"That's a good idea," said Seppi. "See if you can blow it."

Leneli put it to, her lips and blew until her face was purple,
but achieved only a dismal squawk.

"I'll keep the horn myself," said Seppi, taking it from her, "and
every little while I'll blow it. You can answer by blowing on a
grass stem the way you did up yonder. Girls can't manage a horn
anyway."

Leneli was too miserable to reply, and in another minute Seppi
had disappeared up the strange path. For what seemed to her a
very long time, Leneli answered the horn, as it grew fainter and
fainter in the distance. Finally she could not hear it at all.

"Oh, what shall I do if Seppi's gone too?" she moaned when her
desperate signals brought no answer.

Then her Mother's words came back to her, and, plumping herself
down on her knees among the goats, she sent up a fervent prayer.

"Oh, dear God," she cried, clasping her hands, "Mother said we
should be very close to you on the mountain and I suppose you can
see me and Seppi both at the same time, from where you are.
Please, please send him back for I'm scared. Dear God, do please
hurry and help us find the way down the mountain before it gets
dark and you have to go away to watch the other side of the
world. Amen."

She rose from her knees and listened. Far away there came the
sound of Seppi's horn. "Oh, thank you, God! There he comes!" she
dried joyfully, and, snatching a grass-blade, she put it between
her thumbs and gave an answering blast.

Soon Seppi himself came bounding into sight. "Come along," he
shouted, waving his hand frantically toward the path, and Leneli
at once called Bello, and together they started the goats.

"The avalanche must have begun on the other side of our pass,"
said Seppi when Leneli caught up with him. "There's no sign of it
on this side."

"Maybe if we follow far enough we'll find Father and Fritz," said
Leneli, brightening.

"I thought of that, too," answered Seppi, "but if there is any
way to get down the mountain, I think we ought to do it on
Mother's account. Father and Fritz won't know about it, so they
won't be anxious, but if we don't get home Mother will think we
are killed."

"Oh, I wish we could fly," said Leneli.

"Then we must wish for wings on the goats too," said Seppi, "for
you know Father said we must take care of them whatever happens."

Sad and frightened though she was, Leneli giggled a little at
that. "Wouldn't they look funny flying through the air with you
and me and Bello all flopping after them?" she said. "Anyway,
they might go a little faster than they do now," she added
impatiently, giving Nanni a poke with her stick.

"They are hungry," said Seppi. "They hardly had time to eat
anything before the storm came up."

Then a bright idea came into his head. "I'm hungry, too," he
said, "and so are you. Let's eat our lunch while the goats get a
few mouthfuls among the rocks, and then we shall all have more
strength and shall get along faster."


IV. THE LONELY HERDSMAN

THE LONELY HERDSMAN


The sun was already dipping toward the west when they finished
the last crumb of their bread and cheese, washed it down with a
drink from the mountain stream, and started once more on their
journey. They followed the path without much difficulty, for it
had been trampled by the feet of many cattle that morning, and at
the end of an hour had covered several miles without meeting a
person or finding any sign of human habitation The way grew
wilder and wilder and wound slowly upward.

"It's going to be dark pretty soon," said Leneli at last, trying
hard to conceal the tremble in her voice, "and we are going up
instead of down. Seppi, do you suppose there are any bears and
wolves about here?"

"Maybe," said Seppi, and there was a little catch in his throat,
too. "But then," he added, trying hard to look on the bright side
of things, "if there are, they'd be much more likely to eat the
goats. I don't believe they care much about eating people."

"Well, anyway, if they do," quavered Leneli, "I hope they'll
begin with Nanni."

The afternoon waned; the shadows grew longer and longer, and they
wire just making up their minds that they must soon lie down
among the goats beside the trail and wait for morning, when a
turn in the path brought them out on a spur of the mountain where
they could look for miles across a deep valley towards the west.
On the farther side, range after range of snow-capped peaks gave
back the golden glory of the sunset, and from somewhere came the
sound of an Alpine horn playing the first few notes of the hymn
"Praise Ye the Lord."

"The Angelus!" cried Leneli clasping, her hands. "They can't hear
the church-bells up here, so they blow the horns instead."

Far away across the valley another horn answered, then another
and another, and the echoes took up the refrain until it seemed
as if the hills themselves were singing.

Following eagerly the direction of the sound the children were
overjoyed to see in the distance a lonely herdsman standing on a
great rock overlooking the valley, his long Alpine horn in his
hand, and his head bowed in prayer. Leneli and Seppi bowed their
heads too, and it comforted them to think that their mother in
the old farm-house, and Father and Fritz on the far-away alp,
were all at that same moment praying too. It seemed to bring them
near together in spite of the distance which separated them.

Their prayers said, the children hastened forward, driving the
goats before them, and now the sound of cow-bells mingled with
the tinkle of the bells on the goats. Another turn in the path
revealed a green pasture where a herd of cows was grazing, and,
just beyond, a rough shelter made of logs with the herdsman,
still holding his horn, standing beside it. He was gazing in
astonishment at the sight of two little children alone on the
mountains at so late an hour. He was an old man, with a shaggy
white beard, and strange kind eyes that seemed always looking for
something that he could not find. Beside him, his ears pointed
forward and his tail pointing back, was his dog. The dog was
growling.

For an instant the children stood still, not quite daring to go
nearer, but Bello, dear friendly old Bello, had no such fears. He
ran forward barking joyfully; the two dogs smelled each other,
and then trotted back down the path together as if they had been
friends since they were puppies.

The man followed at a slower pace. "What in the world are you
doing up here on the mountains with your goats at this time o'
day?" he said to the children.

The Twins told him their story, and he stood for a moment
scratching his head, as if he were much puzzled to know what to
do with them.

"Well," he said at length, "you can't get down the mountain
to-night, that's certain; and you must be hungry enough to eat an
ox roasted whole, that's certain too. And your goats are hungry
into the bargain. Goats aren't allowed in this pasture, but they
mustn't starve either. Nothing is as it should be."

He scratched his head again, and Leneli, fearing he was going to
turn them away, could not keep a large tear from rolling, down
her nose and splashing off her chin.

"There, there," said the old herdsman, comfortingly, "don't you
cry, sissy. Things aren't so bad but that they might be worse.
You can sleep in the hay up yonder," he jerked his thumb toward
the hut, "and I'll give you a bite to eat, and the goats will
help themselves, I've no manner of doubt."

"We can drink goat's milk," said Leneli timidly, "and you may
have all we don't take."

"We'll have to milk them first," said Seppi, "and we've never
done it before. Mother always does the milking."

"I know how," said Leneli proudly. "Don't you remember, Fritz
taught me the day Nanni swallowed my lunch?"

"I'll lend you a milk-pail," said the herdsman. "The cows were
all milked some time ago."

He went back to the but and soon reappeared with two pails, and
as Leneli struggled with one goat he milked another, while Seppi
fed both creatures with tufts of grass to keep them quiet. It was
the first good grass the goats had seen since morning, and
apparently they were determined to eat the pasture clean.

The herdsman looked at them anxiously and scratched his head
again. "They certainly have healthy appetites," he said woefully;
"they don't calculate to leave anything behind 'em but stones and
gravel!"

The milking took some time and after it was done, the old man
placed the sad and tired children on the bench beside his door,
and while they ate the food he gave them and watched the moon
rise over the mountains, he told them about his home in the
village fifteen miles away at the foot of the pass, and about his
wife and two grandchildren who lived there with him.

"The only thing you can do," he said, "is to go down the pass on
this side of the mountain. You can spend the night at my house or
at some farm-house on the way and it is only about ten miles back
to your own village from the foot of the pass."

"But how can we find the way?" quavered poor Leneli.

The old man scratched his head, as he always did when he was
puzzled, and finally said, "Well, I'm blest if I can tell you.
It's a hard pass. I'd go with you, but I'm alone here and I can't
leave the cows even for half a day. I'll start you right, the dog
and the goats have some sense of their own; and the good God will
guide you. Besides, Swiss boys and girls are never afraid."

"I'm a little afraid, I think," confessed Leneli. She looked at the
moon and thought how it must be shining down on the old farm-house;
and of her mother, who at that very moment must be frantic with fears
for their safety; and of the long and perilous journey before they
could see her again, and though she tried hard to swallow them, three
little sobs slipped out.

The old man heard them. "Why, bless me, bless me," he said,
rumpling his hair until it stood on end, "this will never do at
all! Why, bless us, think of William Tell! Think of Peter, who
lived long ago in your own Lucerne, and who saved the whole city!
To take a little herd of goats down a strange pass is child's
play compared with what he did; and he was only a boy like Seppi
here, and I always thought girls were braver than boys."

Leneli sat up and sniffed resolutely. "I think--I'm almost sure--
I'm going to be brave now," she said. "Tell us about Peter."

"Well, it was like this," said the herds-man. "Peter was a
smart, likely lad enough, but nobody thought he was a hero. In
fact, he never suspected it himself. You see, you can't tell
whether you are one or not until something happens that calls for
courage. Then if you do the right thing, whether you are afraid
or not, you'll know you are one. Well, one summer night this
Peter went out to have a swim in the lake, and when he crawled
upon the bank to dress again, he was so tired he fell asleep. By
and by he was wakened by voices and, opening his eyes, he saw
five or six men creeping stealthily along the lake-shore.

"'Aha,' says Peter to himself, 'that's not the walk of honest
men.'

"He got up on his elbow in the long grass and watched them
without being seen. He saw many more men steal silently after the
first group, and among them he recognized the Bailiff of
Rothenburg, whom he knew to be an Austrian and the sworn enemy of
Lucerne. He saw the men talk together and heard enough of what
they said to be sure that danger threatened his beloved town. So
when they moved on, he followed them, slipping along behind rocks
and bushes, until suddenly they disappeared as if the earth had
swallowed them. Peter groped about hunting for them until at last
he saw a faint light shining from out a dark cavern among the
rocks. Then, though he knew how dangerous it was, he followed the
light and found himself in a long, dark tunnel."

"Oh," shuddered Leneli. "I could never be as brave as that. I
don't like dark places."

"Peter knew that a tunnel ran underneath the walls of the town
and that the other end of it opened by a trap-door into a stable
in Lucerne," went on the old man without noticing Leneli's
interruption, "and at once he saw that some traitor must have
told the Austrians of this secret passage. He crept closer and
closer to the group of men, until he was near enough to hear what
they said. You may be sure his blood ran cold in his veins when
he heard the voice of a man he knew, telling the Austrians just
how best they could capture the town! He knew that terrible
things would happen in Lucerne that night if the enemy ever
reached the other end of the tunnel, and at once made up his mind
that he must alarm the town. He dropped on his hands and knees
and was beginning to crawl back toward the entrance, when he
heard some one coming into the tunnel! He sprang to his feet and
tried to run past, but the passage was narrow, and he was caught
at once and dragged into the light."

"Oh! Oh!" gasped the Twins, breathless with excitement. "It
sounds just like a bad dream."

"It was no dream," said the old herdsman, "for when the traitor,
whose name was Jean de Malters, saw Peter, he was terribly angry.
'How did you come here,' he roared, in a voice that made the
earth shake.

"'I was asleep on the bank and you woke me up, so I followed to
see what was going on,' said Peter.

"'I don't believe you. Some one sent you to spy upon us,' said
Jean de Matters, and he shook Peter. 'Who sent you?'

"'No one,' said Peter. 'I have told you the truth.'

"'You lie,' said his captor. 'I give you just two minutes to tell
who sent you, and if you do not tell us then, you shall die!'

"Poor Peter thought of his home and his mother and father, and
there never was a more homesick boy in the world than he was at
that moment, but though he was terribly frightened, he did not
say a single word.

"'He shall die, then,' said Jean de Falters, when the two minutes
were up, and Peter had not spoken.

"One of the Austrians interfered. 'No,' he said. 'It would be bad
luck to begin the night's work by shedding the blood of a child.
Make him swear he will not tell what he has seen to any living
soul, and let him go.'

"In spite of Jean de Matters, who was bound that he should be
killed, that was what they did, and the moment he was free you
may be sure Peter ran like the wind for home.

"Now you see," said the old herdsman, and he shook his finger at
Seppi and Leneli, "I this was a dreadful position for Peter. He
had solemnly promised not to tell a living soul what he had seen
and heard, but if he didn't tell, his parents and friends would
be murdered before morning.

"That evening his father and a number of other men were gathered
together in the town hall of Lucerne to talk over community
affairs, when Peter suddenly burst into the room, his eyes as big
as saucers.

"The men gathered about him, thinking he must have some
tremendous piece of news, but Peter spoke never a word to them.
Instead, he marched up to the great porcelain stove that stood in
the room.

"'O Stove,' said Peter, 'I have just heard terrible things which
I have promised not to tell to a living soul, but you, O Stove,
have no soul, so to you I will say that the Austrians are now in
the tunnel underneath the walls and that at midnight they will
break in and sack the town.'

"At first the men thought Peter had gone crazy, but when he had
finished telling the stove all he had seen and heard, they flew
to alarm the town and get their weapons.

"At midnight, when the Austrians came up through the hole in the
stable floor, they were received by a little army of men of
Lucerne, and in the battle that followed they were completely
whipped and driven from the town forever. And it was Peter who
saved the city.

"You see that was Peter's chance to show what he was made of, and
he didn't miss his chance. He did the right thing, even though he
was afraid. It's a great thing not to miss one's chance."

The old herdsman looked up at the moon as if he hadn't meant any
one in particular when he said that about missing one's chance,
and the children didn't say a word for a minute.

Then Seppi said, "If Peter could save a whole town, I guess we
can get down that pass with a few goats."

"Why, of course," said the herdsman. "It's your chance, you see,
and when you get home very likely you'll find you are both
heroes. You see if there were never any danger, there never could
be any heroes at all! Now climb up into the hay, both of you, and
I'll wake you for an early start in the morning."


V. THE PASS

THE PASS


All night long the children slept soundly in the hayloft, with
the moon peering in at them through the chinks between the logs.
In the morning they were awakened by the music of cow-bells, and
by the voice of the old herdsman, who stuck his head up through
the hole in the floor and called out "Wake up, my young heroes!
The sun is already looking over the crest of Rigi, and it's time
you were on your way."

Seppi and Leneli sat up and rubbed their eyes, and for a moment
could not think where they were or how they came to be there.
Then they remembered, and, springing from their rude beds, ran
out into the glorious morning and washed their faces and hands in
the mountain stream that flowed near the hut. Then there were the
goats to be milked, and breakfast to be eaten, and the shadows
were already shortening when at last they were ready for their
lonely and dangerous journey.

The old herdsman packed some bread and cheese in their lunch-cloth,
Leneli slung the bundle on her alpenstock, and Seppi called Bello to
herd the goats. But the goats were well pleased with the rich green
grass of the alp, and were unwilling to leave the pasture. They
frisked and gamboled and stood on their hind legs butting each other
playfully, and it was some time before Seppi and Bello could get them
fairly started.

The old herdsman had done his milking very early in order to go a
little way with the children, and now, leaving the cows in charge
of his faithful dog, he led the way down the steep mountain path.

The morning air was so clear and sparkling and the sun shone so
bright upon the snow-capped peaks, that the children almost
forgot the dangers of the unknown path. It seemed impossible that
anything could happen to them in such a wonderful and beautiful
world, and they said good-bye quite cheerfully to the good old
herdsman when at last he stopped and told them he must go back to
his cheese-making. From the place where they stood, they could
see the path like a tiny thread, winding through forests, down a
long, narrow valley shut in by high cliffs, past waterfalls fed
by mountain snows, and losing itself at last where a tiny white
steeple marked the little village which was the home of the old
herdsman. The old man pointed to it. "Follow the path and
remember Peter of Lucerne," he said. "This is your chance! Trust
the good God, do not be afraid, and soon your troubles will be
over and you will be once more in your mother's arms." He stood
on a rock and watched the little procession until a bend in the
path hid it from sight, then he went back to his lonely pasture.

For an hour or so, the children trudged quite cheerfully on their
way. "This isn't hard at all," said Seppi. "The pass is easier to
follow than our own. How silly we were to be scared!"

They were so used to climbing about in perilous places that when
a little later the path led them along a shelf-like projection on
the side of steep cliffs, overhanging a mountain stream, they
were not frightened. But when they began to grow tired, and the
trail led them into a dark forest, where the sun came through the
thick boughs and shone only in patches of light upon the slippery
spruce needles, they grew less courageous.

"I don't like the forest," said Leneli, shivering a little and
looking behind her. "It always seems as if things would happen to
you in the woods."

"What kind of things?" said Seppi, who was beginning to feel a
bit shaky himself.

"Why--you know," answered Leneli, "the kind of things that giants
and dragons and dwarfs do! And then there's that story about
Pontius Pilate. You know our old Mount Pilatus was named that
because they say his body was thrown into one of its lakes, and
his spirit haunts the mountain. He only comes out once a year,
but oh, Seppi, suppose this should be the time!"

"Huh!" said Seppi scornfully. "Girls' talk! Of course I don't
believe such things; besides, he only comes out on Good Friday,
anyway!"

"Well," said Leneli, "lots of people do believe them, even
grown-up people."

"Pooh," said Seppi, and just to show that he didn't care at all
about such idle tales he began to whistle; but Leneli noticed
that he too looked behind him now and then.

It grew more and more difficult to find the way, for there were
openings between the trees that looked like paths and the true
path wound in and out, and came near losing itself entirely among
the rocks. The brown needles covered the ground in every
direction, so the pass was no different in color from the rest of
the forest floor. When they looked behind them or peered
fearfully under the spruce boughs for dwarfs or giants, of course
they were not watching the trail carefully, and so, when suddenly
there was a loud whirring noise above the trees and a great bird
flew almost over their heads, they were so startled they just ran
without noticing which way they were going. Bello was startled
too, and began to bark. This started the goats, and before you
could say "Jack Robinson" children, dog, goats, and all were
galloping pell-mell through the woods.

After the loud whirring noise the forest was still again, and the
children stopped their mad race, but they could not stop the
goats. On and on they ran with Bello after them, and there was
nothing for the children to do but follow, for had not their
father told them that the welfare of the whole family depended
upon the goats, and if any should be lost, they alone would be to
blame? Stumbling over roots, dodging trees and rocks, they
plunged wildly along until finally they saw a light spot ahead
and a moment later came out suddenly upon the edge of a
precipice, from which they could look straight down into a deep
valley below. The goats were there before them huddled together
an the brow of the cliff, bleating piteously. Bello sat on his
haunches with his tongue hanging out and looked at the scenery!
Seppi and Leneli looked at each other in dismay.

"Now you've done it!" said Seppi miserably. "We've lost the path,
and it's all your fault! If we had been thinking about Peter of
Lucerne instead of about those silly old giants and dwarfs, this
would not have happened."

"You were just as scared as I was," said Leneli, "and you needn't
try to lay it all on me! You jumped and ran just as soon as I
did, when that bird flew over our heads."

Seppi knew that this was true, so he said nobly: "Very well,
let's not quarrel about it. What we need to do is to get the
goats back to the path."

He took some salt from his pocket, as his big brother had taught
him to do, and walked slowly toward them, holding out his hand.
Nanni stretched her neck forward and had taken just one lick of
the salt when suddenly the loud whirring noise came again, there
was a terrific scream overhead, and from the crags above them a
great golden eagle swooped down towards the frightened group on
the cliff, and, sticking his terrible talons into Nanni's back,
tried to lift her bodily into the air! For an instant she swung
dizzily over the edge of the cliff as the eagle beat his wings
furiously in an effort to rise with his heavy burden. But in that
instant Seppi leaped forward and, seizing the goat by the tail,
pulled back with all his might. Leneli sprang to the rescue of
Seppi, grasping him firmly around the waist, and screaming like a
wildcat as she added her strength to his.

Meanwhile Bello barked furiously, and the rest of the goats fled
bleating into the woods in a mad stampede. It was all over in
less time that it takes to tell it. The goat, wounded and
bleeding, dropped to the ground, the great bird soared away into
the dizzy spaces beyond the cliff, and the children dashed into
the shelter of the woods, dragging Nanni after them. They could
not sink down on the ground and recover from their fright as they
longed to do, for by this time the goats had scattered among the
trees and must be brought together again at once. Bello was
distractedly trying to round them up, but as he had no idea of
the direction in which to drive them, they were all galloping
wildly about, first this way, then that.

It was some time before the children succeeded in getting the
flock together again, but at last they were able to drive them
farther into the woods, and away from the dangers of the cliffs,
and were soon fortunate enough to come upon a little mountain
stream which was singing its way through the forest. Here the
goats stopped willingly to drink, and for the first time the
children were able to give some attention to Nanni. Her back was
torn and bloody, but her injuries were not serious and on the
whole she seemed little the worse for her experience.

"We must let all the goats rest a little," said Seppi. "There
isn't any food for them, but they can have a good drink while we
eat our lunch, and then we just must find that path."

They sat down on a rock and Leneli opened the bundle of food
which the old herdsman had given them. "Isn't it queer?" said
she, as she handed Seppi a piece of cheese, "I'm not as scared as
I was before that dreadful eagle came. Are you?"

Seppi paused with his mouth open for a bite. "Why, I'm not,
either!" he said with surprise.

Leneli's eyes grew big. "Seppi," said she earnestly, "do you
suppose, maybe, we're heroes like Peter of Lucerne, after all,
and never knew it?"

Seppi thought about this so seriously that for a minute he forgot
to eat. Then he said, "Why, of course we are! We were scared but
we did the right thing! My, but I'm glad!" He sighed with relief
and took a big bite and munched away in silence.

At last he said solemnly, "Of course, now that we know we really
are heroes, we won't be scared any more! We'll stop before we
begin!"

Leneli looked doubtful. "I'm afraid I shall be scared again if we
don't find the Pass," she said. "We might die up here in the
mountains just like Moses in sight of the promised land. And some
time maybe a hunter would find our bones lying scattered about on
the ground." She sniffed a little at this pathetic picture, and
her eyes filled with tears.

"Look here," said Seppi, jumping to his feet and gazing down at
her sternly. "Is that any way for a hero to talk? They aren't
going to find any bones of mine, I can tell you! I'm going to get
down this mountain with all the goats, and so are you!"

"Well," said the heroine, doubtfully, "I was only supposing."

"Well, then, don't suppose that way," growled Seppi. "Just
suppose we find the pass and get somewhere in time for supper,
and get home to-morrow!"

At that very minute a bright thought struck him. "What a silly!"
he said. "Why didn't I think of it before? This stream runs down
hill, and if we follow it we shall have to get down to the
valley, too. Come along!"

He was in such a hurry to carry out his idea that he started at
once with his bread and cheese in his hand.

"But maybe it won't be anywhere near the village where the
herdsman's home is, if we do get down," objected Leneli; "we
ought to find the path."

"We'll be more likely to find it by following the stream," said
Seppi, giving a loud blast on his horn, "and if we don't find
that village, we'll find another place just as good. I'll bet
there are some kind people everywhere."

Bello was at that moment barking down a hollow log in the hope of
catching a hare, but he obediently rounded up the goats when
Seppi called him, and the little caravan began to move.

It was not so simple as it sounded. The stream had worn a deep
channel among the rocks. Trees had fallen across it, undermined
by the swift current. Here it roared through a narrow gorge and
there spread into a wide pool, then again plunged through
underbrush and among rocks in its haste to reach the lake far
below. The goats made slow progress and, whenever it was possible
to do so, wandered away into easier paths and had to be driven
back.

At last, to their great relief, the children saw a break in the
trees, and they rushed joyfully forward, only to find that the
stream at this point leaped over a cliff in a waterfall fifty
feet high! The young explorers gazed at this new difficulty
without a word.

Far below in the green valley they could see little white specks
which were farm buildings, and tiny villages nestling among trees
along the banks of a wide stream. They could even see the glacier
which fed this river, lying like some huge white monster along
the valley, its broad nose thrust between the banks on either
side.

"Every time we think we've found the way out, we just get deeper
in than ever," moaned Leneli, at last. "We can't get down this
way, and if we did we'd have to cross the glacier."

"It isn't a very big one," said Seppi, looking down at it.

"You can't tell from here," quavered Leneli.

Seppi looked about him. To the right the forest slopes stretched
upward toward the mountain-top. In front was the plunge, and at
the left the stream gurgled over rocks and stones to its fall.

"We'll just have to cross it," said Seppi firmly. He drove the
goats back a little way to a place where it was possible to ford
the stream, and in, a little while the whole caravan stood
dripping on the farther bank.

"I'm going to follow along the edge of this cliff," said Seppi,
"and you and the goats follow after me. I'm sure we shall find a
place where we can get down. I'll keep calling, so you'll know
which way to go."

He plunged into the forest at the word and was lost to sight, and
Leneli, driving the goats before her, plunged after him. Guided
by the sound of the waterfall, they forced their way through
underbrush, over great piles of rocks and around perilous curves,
seeking always the lower levels, until at last, when she was
almost ready to give up in despair, Leneli heard a joyful shout
from Seppi and, hastening forward, found him at the edge of the
forest, looking out over a wide range of foothills. The forest
was now behind them, and before them lay green slopes spangled
like the stars in the milky way with yellow daffodils and blue
gentians.

The goats, wild with delight at seeing fresh pasturage, leaped
forward and began to browse, and dear old Bello sat down on his
haunches with his tongue hanging out and gazed upon the scene as
benevolently as if his own stomach were full instead of empty.
The children were so weary they threw themselves down in the
grass beside him to rest.

Now that they had escaped the perils of the forest, it almost
seemed to them for a little while as if their troubles were over,
but by and by Seppi sat up and studied the scene before them. He
looked past the long slopes to the glacier and the river in the
valley below.

"We've got to get across that somehow," he said to Leneli, at
last, pointing to the stream, "and there are only two ways of
doing it. When we get down there, we must either go through the
river, or across the glacier which feeds it."

"We can't go through it," answered Leneli. "We don't know how
deep it is."

"Then it will have to be the glacier," said Seppi, "and I'm glad goats
are so sure-footed. We'd better start along, for it's getting later
every minute, and I'm bound to reach that farm-house before dark." He
pointed to a speck in the distance.

"Oh, dear," sighed Leneli, as she followed his finger with her
eye, "it's like dying to get to heaven! Suppose we fall into
cracks in the glacier?"

"You're the worst supposer I ever saw," snapped Seppi. "Suppose
we don't fall in! Suppose we get across all right with all the
goats, and suppose there's a good woman at the farm-house who
feeds us, and Bello too! Suppose she gives us... what would you
like best for supper, Leneli?"

"Oh!" cried Leneli, clasping her hands, "soup and pancakes!"

"Hurry up, then," said Seppi. "We shall surely never get them,
nor anything else, by staying here."

Leneli struggled to her feet, and once more they moved forward.
Half an hour of brisk walking brought them to the edge of the
glacier, and here Seppi arranged their marching order.

"I'll go first," he said, "the same as a guide, then the goats,
and then you and Bello. You must watch every step, and keep
sticking in your alpenstock to be sure you are on solid ice. If
you don't, you might strike a hollow place and fall through the
crust."

"I'll be careful," said Leneli.

"All right, then! here we go!" said Seppi. "I can just smell
those pancakes!" and with that he set out across the river of
ice.

The children understood very well the dangers of the glaciers. It
was not simply a frozen stream on which one might skate. It was a
great slow-moving, grinding avalanche of ice and rocks, full of
seams and cracks and holes, which was creeping steadily down the
valley. The river formed by the melting snows, gushed forth from
beneath it and rushed away to join the lake still far below.

Even the goats knew it was a perilous journey, and besides they
were unwilling to leave the rich grass of the fields, so it was
with some difficulty that they were finally driven forward upon
the glacier. Seppi led the way, blowing on his little horn to
encourage them, trying every step with his stick, and waiting for
them to catch up before going farther. They were nearly half way
across, when Seppi stopped and called to Leneli to stand still.
There in front of him yawned a wide crevasse. The frozen river
had cracked open, and if they went forward in a straight line
they would plunge down into an ice prison from which they could
never escape alive.

It was the hardest puzzle and the greatest danger they had met in
their whole journey, and for a minute poor Seppi almost gave up
in despair. He thought they would have to go back and try the
river after all. Shouting to Leneli to keep the goats together if
she could, he turned and made his way up-stream along the edge of
the crevasse. It grew narrower as he followed it, and broke into
a number of smaller cracks.

The only way to get to the other side was to follow along these
smaller cracks where they made a crooked natural bridge across
the chasm. Even Seppi's stout heart quailed a little as he gazed
down into the depths of the huge rifts. The walls of ice gleamed
with wonderful greens and blues, but he had no heart to admire
the beautiful colors.

"Remember Peter of Lucerne, and come on," he shouted back to Leneli,
and without another word started across the treacherous ice bridge. It
made no difference whether she was frightened or not, Leneli simply
had to follow him even though the goats, sure-footed as they were,
shrank from the journey, and Bello hung back and whined.

"Follow exactly in my footsteps," shouted Seppi, and Leneli
swallowed a lump in her throat, grasped her alpenstock more
firmly and went forward.

"Don't look down into the hole! Look at the bridge across it!"
shouted Seppi.

He stepped carefully forward, finding solid footing with his
stick before each step, and in a short time stood safely on the
other side of the chasm. There he waited and held his breath,
while the goats picked their way daintily across the ice bridge
after him, and when Leneli and Bello at last reached his side, he
hugged them both for joy.

"There," he said, "there can't be anything worse than that, and
we'll soon be on green grass again."

They passed other smaller crevasses, but they could make their way
around the ends of these, and it was not long before they had
scrambled over the rocks at the glacier's edge and once more stood on
solid ground. Even Bello seemed to realize that their troubles were
now nearly over, for he barked and ran round them in circles and
leaped up with his paws on their shoulders to give them dog kisses,
and, as for his tail--he nearly wagged it loose in his joy. The goats
sprang forward to reach the grass, and when the children drove them
on, snatched greedy mouthfuls as they passed. The children could see
the farm-house growing from a mere speck larger and larger as they
came down the valley toward it, and at last the little group of
stragglers pattered into the door-yard.

The noise of bleating goats and a barking dog brought the
farmer's wife to the door, and for a moment she stood there with
her baby in her arms and looked down at them in astonishment,
just as the old herdsman had done on the mountain.

"Where in the world did you come from?" she cried at last. "Who
are you? and what do you want here?"

Leneli opened her mouth to answer, but when she saw the woman's
kind face, and the baby sucking its thumb and looking at them
solemnly, it reminded her so of her mother and Baby Roseli that,
instead of explaining, she burst into tears.

The woman clattered down the steps of once, put her free arm
around Leneli, and patted her comfortingly, while Seppi told her
their story. Before he had got farther than the avalanche part of
it, she seemed to guess all the rest. It was not the first time
that people had been lost on the mountain.

"Come right in this minute," she cried. "Don't stop to talk! You
must be as hungry as wolves. I'll get you something to eat, and
then you can tell me every word."

"Please," said Leneli timidly, drying her tears, "could you give
Bello something first? The goats have had a little grass and we
had some bread and cheese, but Bello hasn't had a bite all day."

"Bless my soul!" said the woman. "What a little woman it is, to
think first of the dog! Here," she cried to Seppi; "take this
bone to him right away, and shut up the goats in the barn-yard.
Then come back and I'll give you whatever you like best, if I've
got it!"

"If you please, ma'am," said Seppi, his eyes shining, "up on the
mountain when we were lost, we saw your house and we just
supposed that maybe you might have soup and pancakes!"

"Bless my soul!" cried the woman. "Soup and pancakes it shall be,
and that's soon ready!"

She put the baby into Leneli's arms and flew about the kitchen,
rattling pots and pans, stirring up the fire, and mixing her
batter; and when Seppi returned, the smell of pancakes was
already in the air, and the soup was bubbling in the pot. In five
minutes more the children were seated at the kitchen table with
steaming bowls before them, while their new friend cooked a pile
of pancakes that it would have warmed the cockles of your heart
to see.

The farmer himself was far away on the high alps with his cattle,
and came down the mountain only once in a while with a load of
cheeses on his back. His wife was very lonely in his absence and
was glad to have company, if only for a single night; so she
comforted the children and talked with them about their mother,
and piled pancakes on their plates until they could not hold
another mouthful. Then she helped them milk the goats, and when
the sun went down, sent them to bed so they would be well rested
for their long walk the next day.


VI. NEW FRIENDS AND OLD

NEW FRIENDS AND OLD


When the children came into the kitchen the next morning, they
found their new friend beating mush and milk together for their
breakfast, and there was a smell of coffee in the air.

"Sit right down and eat," said she, pushing a stool toward the
table with her foot. "I've milked the goats for you. They didn't
give much, poor things, and it's no wonder, after such a day as
they had yesterday! The wonder is that they gave any at all. I've
made coffee for you, for you've a long day ahead of you, and it
will cheer up your insides. It's a lucky thing for you the day is
so fine. I thought I heard it rain in the night, but old Pilatus'
head has no cloud cap this morning, and he is a good weather
prophet."

The baby was already seated in her high chair at the table,
beating upon it with a spoon to welcome them, and the children
were soon seated beside her putting away a great store of the
good mush. The farmer's wife had no one but the baby to talk to
during the long days when her husband was away, and she made the
most of her time while the children were with her. She told them
all about her cows and her pigs and her chickens, just how much
hay her husband brought down from his highland meadow on his back
the previous summer, and how many cheeses he expected to bring
home from the alp at the end of the season. And when at last they
had eaten all they could, she put up a lunch for them, and gave
them full directions for reaching their own village.

"It's not hard at all," said she, "for though it is still a long
way to the foot of the mountain, you've only to follow the road,
and if you don't know which turn to take at a cross-roads,
there'll always be somebody to ask somewhere along the way. If
you could get so far down the mountain and across the glacier by
yourselves you've nothing to fear now, and you'd better make all
the speed you can, for my heart bleeds for your poor mother. She
must be half dead with anxiety by now."

She kissed them good-bye at the door and stood with her baby on
her arm, gazing after them when they drove the goats out of the
door-yard and started down the highway toward their home. They
did not forget to thank their kind hostess, and after they had
started turned again and again to wave a farewell to her. She
waved to them in return, and the baby also fluttered her tiny
pink hand until they were quite out of sight.

"We'll never forget her, shall we?" said Leneli.

"Never," answered Seppi, fervently. "She's almost as good as
Mother! And doesn't she make good pancakes, though?"

They set their faces northward and trudged along, hurrying rather
than slacking their speed as the miles lengthened behind them,
for as the distance between them and their home shortened, their
eagerness to get there increased. It was a good twelve miles from
the farm-house where they had spent the night to their own
village, and a mile this side of the village and a mile up the
mountain-slope was their own dear home. This, to the sturdy Swiss
boy and girl, brought up in the mountains, was not a hard walk,
but they knew that goats must not be driven too fast if they are
expected to give any milk, so it was late afternoon before the
cavalcade reached the foot of their own hill-side and began the
last climb of the weary journey.

The children could see their own roof, weighted down by stones,
peeping over the edge of the hill long before they were anywhere
near it, and they fastened their homesick eyes upon it as a
sailor fixes his upon the North Star at sea. Now they could see
the whole house, with the goat-shed and cow-stables back of it,
the straw-stack, and the southern slope of the garden.

They strained their eyes for a glimpse of their mother, but there
was no movement to be seen anywhere about the place. Even the
breeze had died down, so there was not so much as a flutter among
the trees as they drew nearer and nearer. At last, unable to hold
themselves back longer, they broke into a run and came dashing
into the yard with all the goat-bells jingling, Bello barking,
and their own voices raised in a joyful shout: "Mother, Mother,
where are you? We're home!"

But to their surprise and great disappointment, there was no
answer. The house was as still as if it were asleep. Leaving the
goats to Bello, the children dashed into the kitchen. There was
no one there, and there was no sound but the loud tick-tock of
the cuckoo clock. They dashed upstairs to the bedrooms and back
again to the kitchen. Everywhere silence.

"It's just as if the house were dead when Mother isn't in it,"
sobbed Leneli. "Where can she be? And Roseli too!"

"Roseli is where Mother is, you may be sure," said Seppi.

They ran outdoors again, and found Bello barking madly at Nanni,
who was having a blissful time with the carrot-tops, which she
refused to leave even when Bello, who knew very well she
shouldn't be in the garden at all, nipped at her heels.

"We'll have to shut up the goats," said Seppi, as he ran to
Bello's assistance.

They drove them into the shed, gave them some hay, and then
rested their weary legs for a moment, siting on the kitchen
steps, while they considered what to do next.

Then an awful thought struck Leneli. "The avalanche!" she gasped.
"Maybe she was caught by it!"

Seppi grew pale and gulped down a sob. "No," he said, when after
a moment he could speak. "I don't believe it! There's no sign of
the avalanche about here, and Mother never goes away from home.
She's trying to find us; that's what she's doing!"

Leneli collapsed on the step. "Oh, Seppi," she cried, "do you
suppose she's lost on the mountain just as we've found ourselves
and got home again?" The thought was too much for her, and she
sobbed afresh.

"Well," said Seppi, "crying won't do any good. Let's go and see
if we can find her."

Weary as they were, they started at once to their feet to begin
this new quest, even though the shadows were long across the
flower-starred mountain-slopes and the sun was already sinking
toward the west.

As they rounded the corner of the house, Seppi gave a joyful
shout and pointed up the goat-path toward the mountain. There, a
long distance off, they saw their mother coming toward them with
Baby Roseli in her arms! Even at that distance they could see
that she looked weary and sad, for her head drooped and her step
was slow. All their own weariness vanished like magic at sight of
her, and with a shout that waked the echoes on old Pilatus they
bounded up the path to meet her.

She heard the shout, and shading her eyes with her hand, looked
eagerly in the direction of the sound, and in another minute
mother and children were clasped in each other's arms, while Baby
Roseli crowed with delight from a nest in the midst of grass and
flowers where she had been suddenly deposited.

For a moment they gave themselves up to the joy of reunion, then
Seppi said proudly: "We brought the goats safely home, Mother.
They are all in the shed."

"I thought you had been swallowed up by the avalanche," sobbed
their mother, clasping them again to her heart. "All the men of
the village are now up the mountain-side searching for you and
trying to break a fresh path to the goat-pastures. They must be
told that you are safe."

She sprang to her feet, and started back up the path. Then she
thought of Seppi's horn. "Blow," she cried, "blow Fritz's tune if
you can. They all know it, and some of them are near enough to
hear."

Seppi put the horn to his lips and blew. At first it was only a
dismal squawk; then, though it sounded much like the crowing of a
young rooster in imitation of an old one, he did manage to
achieve the first few notes of Fritz's tune. Soon a head appeared
above a rock far up the trail, then a whole man scrambled to the
top of it and gazed earnestly at the little group in the path
below.

Again Seppi sounded his horn, his mother flung out her apron like
a flag of victory, and all of them, including Roseli, waved their
arms so joyously that there was no mistaking the message. With an
answering shout the man dropped out of sight again behind the
rock, and a few moments later they saw him running down the
hill-side toward the village.

Soon the church-bell was clanging joyfully from the belfry,
carrying the news of the wanderers' safe return to every one
within hearing distance. Bells from the adjoining village joined
the clamor, and horns answering from distant crags told the glad
news. The toilers on the mountain-side heard and rejoiced.

From the cliffs where the echoes lived came shout after shout,
and soon the women of the village, who had been watching with the
distracted mother and helping in the work of the men, came
hurrying down the goat-path to welcome the wanderers and rejoice
over their safe return. They were joined by one and another of
the men as they returned from the mountain-side, until quite a
group had gathered in the blossoming field to hear the children
tell the story of their perilous adventures. They were standing thus
when the sun dipped behind the western hills and the Angelus once
more called the countryside to prayer. With grateful hearts and
bowed heads, neighbors and friends gave thanks to God for his
mercies, then scattered to their own firesides, leaving the happy
mother and children together.

When they entered the kitchen of the old farm-house once more,
the tiny wooden cuckoo hopped out of his tiny wooden door and
shouted "cuckoo" seven times, and when they had eaten their
supper, and the children sat beside the great stove telling their
mother all over again about the old herdsman, and the eagle, and
the farmer's wife, and all the other events of their three days
on the mountain, the cuckoo waited fifteen whole minutes beyond
the hour before he could make up his mind to remind them of
bed-time. Then he stuck his head out once more and cried "cuckoo"
quite hysterically eight times. Even then they lingered to talk
about Father and Fritz far away in the high alps, and of how glad
they were that they knew nothing of the dangers and anxieties
they had just been through.

"Dear me!" said the mother, rising at last, "how fast the time
goes when we are happy! It's long past your bed hour, and you
must be very tired. We must stop talking this very minute!"

Autumn is really upon us."
They discussed the weather, once and again eyeing the door
apprehensively.
Bentinck-Major took Ronder aside:

"My wife and I have been wondering whether you'd honour us by dining
with us on the 25th," he said.When at last the sound of her footsteps ceased, and the house was
quiet for the night, the cuckoo stuck out his head and looked
about the silent kitchen. The moonlight streamed in at the
eastern window, the little mouse was creeping from her hole, and
the shadows were whispering together in corners.

"On the whole," said the cuckoo to himself, "I think I've managed
this thing very well. Every one is happy again, and now I can
take a little rest myself. The past three days have been very
wearying to one with my responsibilities."

"Cuckoo," he called nine times, then the tiny wooden door clapped
shut, and he too went to sleep.