If the law above enunciated be true, it follows that the natural series
of affinities will also represent the order in which the several species
came into existence, each one having had for its immediate antitype a
closely allied species existing at the time of its origin. It is
evidently possible that two or three distinct species may have had a
common antitype, and that each of these may again have become the
antitypes from which other closely allied species were created. The
effect of this would be, that so long as each species has had but one
new species formed on its model, the line of affinities will be simple,
and may be represented by placing the several species in direct
succession in a straight line. But if two or more species have been
independently formed on the plan of a common antitype, then the series
of affinities will be compound, and can only be represented by a forked
or many branched line. Now, all attempts at a Natural classification and
arrangement of organic beings show, that both these plans have obtained
in creation. Sometimes the series of affinities can be well represented
for a space by a direct progression from species to species or from
group to group, but it is generally found impossible so to continue.
There constantly occur two or more modifications of an organ or
modifications of two distinct organs, leading us on to two distinct
series of species, which at length differ so much from each other as to
form distinct genera or families. These are the parallel series or
representative groups of naturalists, and they often occur in different
countries, or are found fossil in different formations. They are said to
have an analogy to each other when they are so far removed from their
common antitype as to differ in many important points of structure,
while they still preserve a family resemblance. We thus see how
difficult it is to determine in every case whether a given relation is
an analogy or an affinity, for it is evident that as we go back along
the parallel or divergent series, towards the common antitype, the
analogy which existed between the two groups becomes an affinity. We are
also made aware of the difficulty of arriving at a true classification,
even in a small and perfect group;--in the actual state of nature it is
almost impossible, the species being so numerous and the modifications
of form and structure so varied, arising probably from the immense
number of species which have served as antitypes for the existing
species, and thus produced a complicated branching of the lines of
affinity, as intricate as the twigs of a gnarled oak or the vascular
system of the human body. Again, if we consider that we have only
fragments of this vast system, the stem and main branches being
represented by extinct species of which we have no knowledge, while a
vast mass of limbs and boughs and minute twigs and scattered leaves is
what we have to place in order, and determine the true position each
originally occupied with regard to the others, the whole difficulty of
the true Natural System of classification becomes apparent to us.

We shall thus find ourselves obliged to reject all these systems of
classification which arrange species or groups in circles, as well as
these which fix a definite number for the divisions of each group. The
latter class have been very generally rejected by naturalists, as
contrary to nature, notwithstanding the ability with which they have
been advocated; but the circular system of affinities seems to have
obtained a deeper hold, many eminent naturalists having to some extent
adopted it. We have, however, never been able to find a case in which
the circle has been closed by a direct and close affinity. In most cases
a palpable analogy has been substituted, in others the affinity is very
obscure or altogether doubtful. The complicated branching of the lines
of affinities in extensive groups must also afford great facilities for
giving a show of probability to any such purely artificial arrangements.
Their death-blow was given by the admirable paper of the lamented Mr.
Strickland, published in the "Annals of Natural History," in which he so
clearly showed the true synthetical method of discovering the Natural
System.


_Geographical Distribution of Organisms._

If we now consider the geographical distribution of animals and plants
upon the earth, we shall find all the facts beautifully in accordance
with, and readily explained by, the present hypothesis. A country having
species, genera, and whole families peculiar to it, will be the
necessary result of its having been isolated for a long period,
sufficient for many series of species to have been created on the type
of pre-existing ones, which, as well as many of the earlier-formed
species, have become extinct, and thus made the groups appear isolated.
If in any case the antitype had an extensive range, two or more groups
of species might have been formed, each varying from it in a different
manner, and thus producing several representative or analogous groups.
The Sylviadæ of Europe and the Sylvicolidæ of North America, the
Heliconidæ of South America and the Euploeas of the East, the group of
Trogons inhabiting Asia, and that peculiar to South America, are
examples that may be accounted for in this manner.

Such phænomena as are exhibited by the Galapagos Islands, which contain
little groups of plants and animals peculiar to themselves, but most
nearly allied to those of South America, have not hitherto received any,
even a conjectural explanation. The Galapagos are a volcanic group of
high antiquity, and have probably never been more closely connected with
the continent than they are at present. They must have been first
peopled, like other newly-formed islands, by the action of winds and
currents, and at a period sufficiently remote to have had the original
species die out, and the modified prototypes only remain. In the same
way we can account for the separate islands having each their peculiar
species, either on the supposition that the same original emigration
peopled the whole of the islands with the same species from which
differently modified prototypes were created, or that the islands were
successively peopled from each other, but that new species have been
created in each on the plan of the pre-existing ones. St. Helena is a
similar case of a very ancient island having obtained an entirely
peculiar, though limited, flora. On the other hand, no example is known
of an island which can be proved geologically to be of very recent
origin (late in the Tertiary, for instance), and yet possesses generic
or family groups, or even many species peculiar to itself.

When a range of mountains has attained a great elevation, and has so
remained during a long geological period, the species of the two sides
at and near their bases will be often very different, representative
species of some genera occurring, and even whole genera being peculiar
to one side only, as is remarkably seen in the case of the Andes and
Rocky Mountains. A similar phænomenon occurs when an island has been
separated from a continent at a very early period. The shallow sea
between the Peninsula of Malacca, Java, Sumatra and Borneo was probably
a continent or large island at an early epoch, and may have become
submerged as the volcanic ranges of Java and Sumatra were elevated. The
organic results we see in the very considerable number of species of
animals common to some or all of these countries, while at the same time
a number of closely allied representative species exist peculiar to
each, showing that a considerable period has elapsed since their
separation. The facts of geographical distribution and of geology may
thus mutually explain each other in doubtful cases, should the
principles here advocated be clearly established.

In all those cases in which an island has been separated from a
continent, or raised by volcanic or coralline action from the sea, or in
which a mountain-chain has been elevated in a recent geological epoch,
the phænomena of peculiar groups or even of single representative
species will not exist. Our own island is an example of this, its
separation from the continent being geologically very recent, and we
have consequently scarcely a species which is peculiar to it; while the
Alpine range, one of the most recent mountain elevations, separates
faunas and floras which scarcely differ more than may be due to climate
and latitude alone.

The series of facts alluded to in Proposition (3), of closely allied
species in rich groups being found geographically near each other, is
most striking and important. Mr. Lovell Reeve has well exemplified it in
his able and interesting paper on the Distribution of the Bulimi. It is
also seen in the Humming-birds and Toucans, little groups of two or
three closely allied species being often found in the same or closely
adjoining districts, as we have had the good fortune of personally
verifying. Fishes give evidence of a similar kind: each great river has
its peculiar genera, and in more extensive genera its groups of closely
allied species. But it is the same throughout Nature; every class and
order of animals will contribute similar facts. Hitherto no attempt has
been made to explain these singular phenomena, or to show how they have
arisen. Why are the genera of Palms and of Orchids in almost every case
confined to one hemisphere? Why are the closely allied species of
brown-backed Trogons all found in the East, and the green-backed in the
West? Why are the Macaws and the Cockatoos similarly restricted? Insects
furnish a countless number of analogous examples;--the Goliathi of
Africa, the Ornithopteræ of the Indian Islands, the Heliconidæ of South
America, the Danaidæ of the East, and in all, the most closely allied
species found in geographical proximity. The question forces itself
upon every thinking mind,--why are these things so? They could not be as
they are had no law regulated their creation and dispersion. The law
here enunciated not merely explains, but necessitates the facts we see
to exist, while the vast and long-continued geological changes of the
earth readily account for the exceptions and apparent discrepancies that
here and there occur. The writer's object in putting forward his views
in the present imperfect manner is to submit them to the test of other
minds, and to be made aware of all the facts supposed to be inconsistent
with them. As his hypothesis is one which claims acceptance solely as
explaining and connecting facts which exist in nature, he expects facts
alone to be brought to disprove it, not _à priori_ arguments against its
probability.


_Geological Distribution of the Forms of Life._

The phænomena of geological distribution are exactly analogous to those
of geography. Closely allied species are found associated in the same
beds, and the change from species to species appears to have been as
gradual in time as in space. Geology, however, furnishes us with
positive proof of the extinction and production of species, though it
does not inform us how either has taken place. The extinction of
species, however, offers but little difficulty, and the _modus operandi_
has been well illustrated by Sir C. Lyell in his admirable
"Principles." Geological changes, however gradual, must occasionally
have modified external conditions to such an extent as to have rendered
the existence of certain species impossible. The extinction would in
most cases be effected by a gradual dying-out, but in some instances
there might have been a sudden destruction of a species of limited
range. To discover how the extinct species have from time to time been
replaced by new ones down to the very latest geological period, is the
most difficult, and at the same time the most interesting problem in the
natural history of the earth. The present inquiry, which seeks to
eliminate from known facts a law which has determined, to a certain
degree, what species could and did appear at a given epoch, may, it is
hoped, be considered as one step in the right direction towards a
complete solution of it.


_High Organization of very ancient Animals consistent with this Law._

Much discussion has of late years taken place on the question, whether
the succession of life upon the globe has been from a lower to a higher
degree of organization. The admitted facts seem to show that there has
been a general, but not a detailed progression. Mollusca and Radiata
existed before Vertebrata, and the progression from Fishes to Reptiles
and Mammalia, and also from the lower mammals to the higher, is
indisputable. On the other hand, it is said that the Mollusca and
Radiata of the very earliest periods were more highly organized than the
great mass of those now existing, and that the very first fishes that
have been discovered are by no means the lowest organised of the class.
Now it is believed the present hypothesis will harmonize with all these
facts, and in a great measure serve to explain them; for though it may
appear to some readers essentially a theory of progression, it is in
reality only one of gradual change. It is, however, by no means
difficult to show that a real progression in the scale of organization
is perfectly consistent with all the appearances, and even with apparent
retrogression, should such occur.

