We have, likewise, learned that true music, _out of the heart_, may
not at the first please us, but within it there is a great deal and we
must seek it. The history of all who have faithfully studied the works
of the great masters is, that for all the thought and time one spends
in studying master works a great gain comes. On the other hand,
everybody's experience with common music is, that while it may please
much at first and even captivate us, yet it soon tires us so that we
can scarcely listen patiently to it.

Still a further lesson is, that working with many talents or with one
is the same. Talents, one or many, are for increase and faithful
development. Handel's life was a determined struggle to make the most
of his power. It should be ours.


CHAPTER XXI.

LOVE FOR THE BEAUTIFUL.


  "Every color, every variety of form, has some purpose and
  explanation."--_Sir John Lubbock_.[65]

Now, when we are almost at the end of the way we have traveled
together, it will be natural to look back upon the road over which we
have come. Not all of it will be visible, to be sure. We have
forgotten this pleasant scene and that; others, however, remain fresh
in our minds. And as the days pass and we think over our way there
will now and again come to us a scene, a remembrance, so full of
beauty and of pleasure that we shall feel rich in the possession of
it.

To me there is nothing we have learned together greater in value,
richer in truth and comfort than the thought that the beautiful in
music and in art is at the same time the good. Even if a person is not
at all times good, there is raised in him the feeling of it whenever
he consciously looks upon a beautiful object. We see in this how wise
it is for one to choose to have beautiful things, to surround others
with them, to love them, and to place reverent hands upon them.

We can never make a mistake about gentle hands. Once a lady said to a
boy:

"You should touch all things with the same delicacy that one should
bestow upon a tender flower. It shows that deep within yourself you
are at rest, that you make your hands go forward to a task carefully
and with much thought. In the roughest games you play do not forget
this; then your hands shall be filled with all the thought you have
within yourself."

Sometimes, when I am in a great gallery, the thought is very strong in
me, that many (ever, and ever so many) people, in all countries and in
all times, have so loved the beautiful as to devote their lives to it.
Painters, who have made pictures to delight men for generations,
looked and looked and _prayed_ to find the beautiful. And we must
believe that one looks out of the heart to find the beautiful or he
finds only the common. And the sculptors who have loved marble for the
delight they have in beautiful forms, they, too, with eyes seeking
beauty, and hands so gentle upon the marble that it almost breathes
for them, they, too, have loved the beautiful.

But commoner ones have the tenderest love for what is sweet and fair
in life,--people who are neither painters nor sculptors. In their
little way--but it is a _true_ way--they have sunlight in their
hearts, and with it love for something.

Perhaps it is a flower. I have been told of a man--in fact I have seen
him--who could do the cruelest things; who was so bad that he could
not be permitted to go free among others, and yet he loved plants so
much that if they were put near him he would move quietly among them,
touching this one and that; gazing at them, and acting as if he were
in another world. You did it by Ausschweiffungen what you do reiztet,
in a sense divorced from his queen, the sacred rights of a royal Ehbettes
diminished, and the beautiful cheeks of a lovely princess by Thränen
beflekt whom your insults extorted from her eyes.

I myself, through the Glük my birth, a prince of royal blood, and
from the king, my blood relatives, worth held until her inspirations
toxic me made him suspicious, and I even got my Naken under euern
persecution must bow, and, Brodt bittre exile eating my Englishman
Athem in foreign clouds verseufzt, however, that it consumed my lord,
my woods and Lusthayne ausgehauen, my arms of my Thoren demolished,
and I do not andres characters have left, so I can show the world that
I am a gentleman, when the Meynung of the people and the blood in my
veins: This and much more, much more than zweymal so much, verurtheilt
you to death. Sehet that their Urtheil them to be completed. Buschy.
Willkommner is to me that the string of death, as England is Bolingbroke
- Milord, you probably had. Green.

My consolation is that the sky is our souls, and this injustice
with the torments of hell will be tight. Bolingbroke.
Yes, indeed, it was a small world and a barren one into which they had
forced him. But he had his thoughts, and daily as he walked in his
confined yard, they were busy with the past, weaving, weaving. What
patterns they made, and he, poor one, was sometimes afraid of them!
But still they kept on weaving, weaving.

One day, as he walked in his yard, he noticed that between two of the
stones there seemed to be something and he looked at it. With the
greatest attention he studied it, then he knelt on the rude stones and
looked and looked again. His heart beat and his hands trembled, but
yet with a touch as gentle as any one could give, he moved a grain or
two of soil and there, beneath, was something which the poor captive
cried out for joy to see--a tiny plant. As if in a new world, and
certainly as if another man, he cared daily for the tender little
companion that had come to share his loneliness; he thought of it
first in the morning and last at night. He gave it of his supply of
water and, as a father, he watched over it.

And it grew so that one day he saw that his plant must either die or
have more room. And it could not have more room unless a cobblestone
were removed. Now this could only be done with the consent of the
Emperor. Well, let us not stop to hear about the way he found, but he
did get his request to the Emperor and, after a while, what happened
do you think? That the plant was given more room? Yes, that is partly
it, and the rest is this: the prisoner himself was given more room--he
was liberated.

Just because the seed of a beautiful thing came to life in his tiny
world he found love for it and a new life, a care, _something outside
of himself_. And it brought him all.

That love which is not given to self reveals the beauty of the world.


CHAPTER XXII.

IN SCHOOL.


  "Every successive generation becomes a living memorial of our public
  schools, and a living example of their excellence."--_Joseph Story._

In these days we learn many things in our schools--even music. They
surely must have a purpose, all the studies and the music as well. Let
us in this Talk see if we can find what the purpose is.

It costs our Government a great deal to educate the children of the
land. There are now nearly twenty million children in our country.
That is a number you cannot conceive. But every morning of the year,
when it is not a vacation day, you may think of this vast number
leaving home and going to school to be taught. I am sure the picture
will make us all think how wise a Government is that devotes so much
to making us know more, because by learning more we are able to enjoy
more, to do more, to be more. And this makes us better citizens.

Year after year, as men study and learn about what is best to have
children taught in school, the clearer it becomes that what is given
is dictated because of its usefulness. Arithmetic teaches us to
calculate our daily affairs. Grammar teaches us to listen and to speak
understandingly. Penmanship and Spelling teach us properly to make the
signs which represent speech. Geography teaches us of the earth on
which we live, and how we may travel about it. History teaches us how
to understand the doings of our own day and makes us acquainted with
great men of former times, who by striving have earned a place in our
remembrance.

As we go on in our school education, taking up new studies, we find to
a still greater degree that what we learn is for usefulness.
Arithmetic becomes mathematics in general. Grammar is brought before
us in other languages, and branches out into the study of Rhetoric and
Literature. History is taught us of many lands, particularly of
Greece, Rome, and England. And, bit by bit, these various histories
merge into one, until, perhaps not until college years or later, the
doings of the countries in all the centuries of which we have
knowledge is one unbroken story to us. We know the names of lands and
of people. Why Greece could love art, why Rome could have conquest;
why these countries and all their glories passed away to give place to
others; all these things become clear to us. We learn of generals,
statesmen, poets, musicians, rulers. Their characters are made clear;
their lives are given to us in biography, and year after year the
story of the earth and man is more complete, more fascinating, more
helpful to us in learning our own day.

Then, besides all these studies, we are taught to do things with the
hands. After the Talks we have already had about doing, we know what
it means to have training of the hands. It really means the training
of the thoughts. We are training the mind to make the hands perform
their tasks rightly. It is the same in the science lesson which
teaches us to see; actually to use our eyes until we see things. That
may not seem to be a difficult task, but there are really very few
people who can accurately and properly use their eyes. If there were
more, fewer mistakes would be made.

Thus we can see that school work divides its tasks into two general
classes:

First, the learning of facts.

Second, the actual doing of things.

You will readily see that to do things properly is possible only when
we know facts which tell us how to do them. That shows you at once the
wisdom of the education you receive.

Now, let us imagine that school life is over. For many years you have
gone faithfully every day to your place, you have done your tasks as
honestly as you could, and said your lessons, being wounded no doubt
by failures, but gladdened again by successes. Now, when it is all
over, what is there of it?

Well, above all things, there is one truth of it which it is wonderful
people do not think of more frequently. And that truth is this: The
only education we may use in our own life is that which we have
ourselves. No longer have we help of companions or teachers. We depend
entirely upon our own personal knowledge. If we speak it is our own
knowledge of Grammar that is used. We cannot have a book at hand in
order to know from it the words we should use. If we make a
calculation about money, or do anything with numbers, it must be done
from our knowledge of Arithmetic, and it must be right or people will
very soon cease to deal with us. Then, if we have a letter from a
friend, we must of ourselves know how to read it, and if we have aught
to say to another at a distance, we must be able clearly to express
ourselves in writing, so that we may make no mistake in our meaning.

And this, likewise, is to be said of all the rest. Our knowledge of
History, of Geography, of men of past times, of the boundaries of
countries, of cities, of people, of everything, must come from
ourselves. And, further yet, according as we have been careful to see
in the right way and to do in the right way while we were under
instruction in school, so we shall be likely to see and to do when we
are not in school, and no longer have some one over us who will kindly
and patiently correct our errors, teach us new ways, and give us
greater powers. We may, of course, go on learning after our school
days are ended; and really much of the best education comes then, if
we will immediately set about correcting the faults which we find in
ourselves.

Indeed, many men have gained the best part of their education after
leaving school, where, perhaps, it was their fortune to stay but a
short time.[67] But we must remember that the habits of learning,
doing, seeking, are gained in early years, and if they are not gained
then they rarely come.

Now, what have we learned about schools and school-tasks? We have
learned a little of the purpose which lies in the education we
receive; that out of it must come the power to do and to know; that is
our own power; not that of any one else. We have seen the usefulness
of school-studies, and how practical they are in our daily life.

In all this Talk we have said nothing about Music. If, however, we
understand what the other studies mean, what their purpose is, we
shall learn something which shall be valuable when we come to study
the meaning and purpose of music in schools. That shall be our next
Talk.


CHAPTER XXIII.

MUSIC IN SCHOOL.


  "Become in early years well-informed concerning the extent of the
  four voices.

"Try, even with a poor voice, to sing at sight without the aid of an
instrument; from that your ear will constantly improve. In case,
however, that you have a good voice, do not hesitate a moment to
cultivate it; and believe, at the same time, that heaven has granted
you a valuable gift."--_Robert Schumann._[68]

In the previous Talk we learned two very important facts about school
studies. They were these:

   I. They are useful.

  II. They are useful in proportion to our own (not to anybody else's)
      real knowledge of them.

We do not study useless subjects, and it is not from our books, nor
from our teacher that we go through life, making our way. In other
words, the harder we work, the more independent we become; and the
more independent we become, the more power we have to help others.

Now, whatever is true about other school studies is likewise true
about music. It is given to children in school because it is useful,
and because a child can gain power by learning it. Let us see about
this.

To one who does not think deeply, it might seem that if any study in
school is merely ornamental, that study is music. He might say that
all the other studies tend to some practical end in life and business:
that one could not add, nor read, nor transact business, nor write a
letter any more correctly by knowing music. It is only an unthinking
person--_none other_--who would say that.

Of the usefulness of all the school studies we have spoken. We need
only to take a few steps along the pleasant road, about which we have
had so many Talks, and we shall see how much music means in life. To
us it is already plain. Music is a new world, to enter which
cultivates new senses, teaches us to love the beautiful, and makes us
watchful of two of the most important things in life: the thoughts and
the heart. We must have exact thoughts or the music is not made
aright, and the heart may be what it will, music tells all about it.
Therefore, let it be good.

But music in school brings us to daily tasks in tone. What do we
learn? After the difficulties of reading the notes and making the
voice responsive are somewhat overcome, we study for greater power in
both, the one-, two-, or three-part exercises and songs; the exercises
for skill and the songs to apply the skill, and make us acquainted
with the music of great masters.

In one Talk, one of the first, we spoke of the major scale. It has
eight tones only, and though it has existed for many hundreds of
years, no one has yet dreamed of all the wonderful tone-pictures which
are contained in it. It is out of it that all the great composers have
written their works, and for centuries to come men will find in it
beauties great, and pure, and lasting.

As we sing in school, we are learning to put the major scale to some
use. It calls upon us in the melodies which it expresses, to be
careful that each tone shall be right in length, in pitch, in
loudness, in place. We must sing exactly with the others, not
offensively loud, nor so softly as to be of no service. And this
demands precision of us; and precision demands thought. And if we are
singing to gain a better use of voice we must, in every sound we make,
have our thoughts exactly upon what we are doing. This is
Concentration. Bolingbroke. I thank you, my loving uncle comes,
Milord, come, to fight with Glendower and his followers, still
working for a while, and then Feyer evening. (They go from.) Zweyte
Scene. (Turns into a coastal of Wales.)
All these things are more particularly required of us if
we are singing in parts. The melody must be properly sustained and
must not cover the under parts; while the under parts themselves
should never intrude upon the melody, nor fail to be a good background
for it. The singing of part music is one of the best ways to train the
attention--that is, to get Concentration. As we sing our part we must
have in mind these things:


    I. To keep to it and not be drawn away by another part.

   II. To give the part we sing its due prominence.

  III. Never to destroy the perfect equality of the parts by unduly
       hastening or holding back.

   IV. To remember that each part is important. The other singers have
       as much to think of and to do as we have, and they are entitled
       to just as much praise.

    V. To be alert to take up our part at exactly the right place.

   VI. To put the full meaning of the poet and of the composer into
       every word and tone.

These, after all, are only a few of the things; but from them we may
learn this, that to sing (and to play is quite the same) is one of the
most delicate tasks we can learn to perform, requiring attention from
us in many ways at the same time. Even now the usefulness of music is
clear, for the faculties we learn to employ in music form a power that
can be applied in anything.

But music has even a greater reward for us than this. It presents to
us many kinds of thoughts and pictures,--of bravery, of
thoughtfulness, of gaiety, and others without number--and then it
demands that we shall study so as to sing them truthfully from our
hearts. And when we can do this music is then a joy to us and to
others.

Now we see that music, just like the other studies, is useful and
gives us the power to do something. And besides its use and power it
is, perhaps more than any other study, the greatest means of giving
happiness to others. But of that there is yet a word to be said. That
shall be our next Talk.


CHAPTER XXIV.

HOW ONE THING HELPS ANOTHER.


  "Music washes away from the soul the dust of everyday
  life."--_Berthold Auerbach._

Just at the end of our Talk about Music in School, I said that music
was the most powerful of all the studies for giving joy to others. In
this Talk we shall try to learn what the studies do for each other.

Once more--and we must never get tired if the same thought comes again
and again--let us remember that music is thought expressed in tone.
Classic music is great and strong thought; poor, unworthy music is
weak, perhaps wrong or mean thought.

Further, we have learned that thought may be good and pure, and yet
that of itself is not sufficient. It must be well expressed. In short,
to thought of the right sort we must add knowledge, so that it may be
set before others in the right way.

Now, it is true that the more knowledge we have, the more we can do
with music. We can put more meaning into it; we can better perform all
the exacting duties it demands; we can draw more meaning from its art,
and we can see more clearly how great a genius the composer is.
Besides these things, a well-trained mind gets more thoughts from a
subject than an untrained mind. Bring these men closer herbey -
Buschy, and Green, I want your souls as it is now on the that they
are distinguished by their bellies, not so harsh accusations
frightened when your life has earned perishable, because that would
ruthlessness; But for your blood to wash my hands, I will, before
this meeting, some potential causes of your death.

You have a prince, his birth and his angebohrner Edelmuth to a large and
glüklichen Kings certain misguided and depraved unglüklich made.
It is the wrong way of
doing things that causes us trouble. Some studies demand exactness
above all this,--like the study of Arithmetic--others a good
memory,--like History--others tax many faculties, as we have seen in
our Talk about School Music.

Some of the studies are particularly valuable to us at once because
they make us _do_. They may be called _doing_ studies. In Arithmetic
there is a result, and only one result, to be sought. In Grammar every
rule we learn is to be applied in our speech. Manual training demands
judgment and the careful use of the hands. Penmanship is a test for
the hand, but History is a study touching the memory more than the
doing faculty.

School music, you see at once, is a doing study. Not only that, it is
full of life, attractive, appealing to the thoughts in many ways, and
yet it is a hearty study--by that I mean a study for the heart.

If you have noticed in your piano music the Italian words which are
given at the beginning of compositions, you may have thought how
expressive most of them are of the heart and of action. They are
_doing_ words particularly. _Allegro_ is cheerful; that is its true
meaning. It directs us to make the music sound cheerful as we sing it
or play it. What for? So that the cheerfulness of the composer shall
be for us and for other people. And _Vivace_ is not merely quickly,
but vivaciously. Now what does vivacious mean? It means what its
root-word _vivere_ means, to live. It is a direction that the music
must be full of life; and the true life of happiness and freedom from
care is meant. So with _Modcrato_, a doing word which tells us very
particularly how to do; namely, not too fast, spoiling it by haste,
nor too slowly, so that it seems to drag, but in a particular way,
that is, with moderation.

Music takes its place as a _doing_ study; and as we have already
discovered, its doing is of many kinds, all requiring care. Singing or
playing is doing; reading the notes is doing; studying out the
composer's meaning is doing; making others feel it is doing;
everything is doing; and _doing_ is true living, _provided it is
unselfish_.

Let us see if there is not a simple lesson in all this. To seek it we
shall have to say old thoughts over again. Music itself uses the same
tones over and over again; it is by doing so that we begin to
understand tone a little.

