Produced by Martin Robb


KING OLAF'S KINSMAN

A Story of the Last Saxon Struggle Against the Danes
in the Days of Ironside and Cnut

by Charles W. Whistler

            Preface.
 Chapter 1: The Coming Of The Vikings.
 Chapter 2: Olaf The King.
 Chapter 3: The Breaking Of London Bridge.
 Chapter 4: Earl Wulfnoth Of Sussex.
 Chapter 5: How Redwald Fared At Penhurst.
 Chapter 6: Sexberga The Thane's Daughter.
 Chapter 7: The Fight At Leavenheath.
 Chapter 8: The White Lady Of Wormingford Mere.
 Chapter 9: The Treachery Of Edric Streone.
Chapter 10: The Flight From London.
Chapter 11: The Taking Of The Queen.
Chapter 12: Among Friends.
Chapter 13: Jealousy.
Chapter 14: The Last Great Battle.
Chapter 15: The Shadow Of Edric Streone.
Chapter 16: By Wormingford Mere.
            Notes.


Preface.


No English chronicler mentions the presence of King Olaf the Saint
in England; but the two churches dedicated to him at either end of
London Bridge, where his greatest deed was wrought, testify to the
gratitude of the London citizens towards the viking chief who
rescued their city from the Danes, and brought back the king of
their own race towards whom their loyalty was so unswerving.

The deeds of King Olaf recorded in this story of his kinsman are
therefore from the Norse "Saga of King Olaf the Holy," and the
various incidents are assigned as nearly as may be to their place
in the sequence of events given from the death of Swein to the
accession of Cnut, in the contemporary Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, which
is our most reliable authority for the period.

The place where King Olaf fought his seventh battle, "Ringmereheath
in Ulfkyl's land," is doubtful. To have localized it, therefore, on
a traditional battlefield in Suffolk, where a mound and field names
point to a severe forgotten fight in the line which a southern
invader would take between Colchester and Sudbury, may be
pardonable for the purposes of Redwald's story.

With regard to other historic incidents in the tale, some are from
the Danish "Knytlinga" and "Jomsvikinga" Sagas, which alone give us
the age of Cnut on his accession to the throne, and recount the
interception of Queen Emma by Thorkel's men on her projected
flight. In the ordinary course of history the age of the wise king
is disregarded, and the doings of the three great jarls are
naturally enough credited to him, for after the first few years of
confusion have been passed over, he takes his place as the greatest
of our rulers since Alfred, and his age is forgotten in his
wonderful policy.

The doings of Edric Streone are partly from the hints give by the
Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, and partly from the accounts of later
English writers. But there is no chronicle of either English,
Danish, or Norse origin which does not hold him and his treachery
in the utmost scorn.

The account of the battle of Ashingdon follows the definite local
traditions of the place. The line of the river banks have changed
but little, and Cnut's earthworks still remain at Canewdon. The
first battlefield is yet known, and they still tell how Eadmund was
forced to fight on Ashingdon hill because his way across the ford
was barred by the Danish ships, and how the pursuit of the routed
English ended at Hockley.

Wulfnoth and his famous son Godwine are of course historic. The
Anglo-Saxon Chronicle tells us how the earl was driven into sullen
enmity with Ethelred by Streone's brother, and the Danish Sagas
record Godwine's first introduction by Jarl Ulf to Cnut after the
battle of Sherston.

As for the places mentioned in Redwald's story, the well on Caldbec
hill still has its terrors for the village folk, and the
destruction of the ancient mining village at Penhurst by the Danes
is remembered yet with strange tales of treasure found among its
stone buildings. The Bures folk still speak of the White Lady of
the Mere, and their belief that Boadicea lies under the great mound
is by no means unlikely to be a tradition of her true resting
place.

C. W. WHISTLER

STOCKLAND, Nov. 1896.


Chapter 1: The Coming Of The Vikings.


All along our East Anglian shores men had watched for long, and now
word had come from Ulfkytel, our earl, that the great fleet of
Swein, the Danish king, had been sighted off the Dunwich cliffs,
and once again the fear of the Danes was on our land.

And so it came to pass that I, Redwald, son of Siric, the Thane of
Bures, stood at the gate of our courtyard and watched my father and
our sturdy housecarles and freemen ride away down the hill and
across the winding Stour river to join the great levy at
Colchester. And when I had seen the last flash of arms sparkle from
among the copses beyond the bridge, I had looked on Siric, my
father, for the last time in this world, but no thought rose up in
my mind that this might be so.

Yet if I stand now where I stood on that day, and see by chance the
glimmer of bright arms through green boughs across the river, there
comes to me a rush of sadness that dulls the bright May sunshine
and the sparkle of the rippling water, and fills the soft May-time
wind with sounds of mourning. Now to me it seems that I was thus
sad at the time that is brought back to me. But I was not so. It is
only the weight of long years of remembrance of what should have
been had I known. At that parting I turned back into the hall
downcast, only because my father had thought me not yet strong
enough to ride beside him, and a little angry and hurt moreover,
for I was broad and strong for my sixteen years.

Little thought I that in years to come I should remember all of
that leave taking, even to the least thing that happened; but so it
is. No man may rightly be said to forget aught. All that he has
known and learnt is there, hidden up in his mind to come forth if
there is anything that shall call it again to light.

Now my father lies resting among nameless heroes who died for
England on Nacton Heath--I know not even which of the great mounds
it may be that holds his bones--but he fell before the flight began
when Thurketyl Mirehead played the craven. Neither victor nor
vanquished was he when his end came, but maybe that is the best end
for a warrior after all. Some must fall, and some may live to
boast, and some remain to mourn, but to give life for fatherland in
hottest strife is good. That is what my father would have wished
for himself, and I at least sorrow but for myself and not for him.

Now I have spoken of remembrance, and I will add this word--that
some things in a man's life can never be set aside from his memory.
Waking or sleeping they come back to him. Eight days after that
going of my father came such a time to me, so that every least
thing is clear to me today as then.

I sat plaiting a leash for my hounds on the settle before the fire
in our great hall at Bures, and I remember how the strands of
leather thong fell in my hand; I remember how my mother's spinning
wheel stopped short with a snapping of broken threads; how the
thrall who was feeding the fire stayed with the log in his hands;
how the sleepy men at the lower end of the hall sprang up with
heavy words checked on their lips before the lady's presence; how
the maidens screamed--aye, and how the draught swayed the wall
hangings, and sent a long train of sparks flying from a half-dead
torch, as the great door was thrown open and a man flung himself
into our midst, mud splashed and white faced, with hands that
quivered towards us as he cried hoarsely:

"In haste, mistress--you must fly--the Danes--" and fell like a log
at my mother's feet where she sat on the dais, neither moving nor
speaking more.

It was Grinkel, the leader of our housecarles {1}. His armour
was rent and gashed, and no sword was in the scabbard at his side,
and his helm was gone, and now as he fell a bandage slipped from
his arm, and slowly the red stream from a great wound ran among the
sweet sedges wherewith the floor was strewn.

There came a mist before my eyes, and my heart beat thick and fast
as I saw him; but my mother rose up neither screaming nor growing
faint, though through her mind, as through mine, must have glanced
the knowledge of all that this homecoming of brave Grinkel meant.
She stepped from the high place to the warrior's side and hastily
rebound the wound, telling the maidens meanwhile to bring wine that
she might revive him if he were not already sped.

Then she rose up while the old steward took the wine and tried to
force it between the close-set teeth, and she called the farm
servants to her.

"Make ready all the horses and yoke the oxen to the wains," she
said in a clear voice that would not tremble. "Send the lads to
warn the village folk to fly beyond the river. For Grinkel comes
not in this wise for nought. The Danes are on us."

Long live the King! Hurrah! Hurrah!

Buyck. Thanks, sirs, master even were too much! Thanks for the
honour.

Jetter. You have no one to thank but yourself. Ruysum. Let me tell
you--
Soest. How now, grey-beard?

Ruysum. Let me tell you!--He shoots like his master, he shoots like
Egmont.

Buyck. Compared with him I am only a bungler. He aims with the rifle
as no one else does.

Not only when he's lucky or in the vein; no! he levels, and the
bull's-eye is pierced. I have learned from him. He were indeed a
blockhead, who could serve under him and learn nothing!

--But, sirs, let us not forget! A king maintains his followers;
and so, wine here, at the king's charge!

Jetter. We have agreed among ourselves that each--
Buyck. I am a foreigner, and a king, and care not a jot for your
laws and customs.

Jetter. Why, you are worse than the Spaniard, who has not yet
ventured to meddle with them.

Ruysum. What does he say?

Soest (loud to Ruysum). He wants to treat us; he will not hear of our
clubbing together, the king paying only a double share.

Ruysum.

Let him! under protest, however! 'Tis his master's fashion, too,
to be munificent, and to let the money flow in a good cause. (Wine
is brought.)

All. Here's to his Majesty! Hurrah!

Jetter (to Buyck). That means your Majesty, of course, Buyck. My
hearty thanks, if it be so.

Soest. Assuredly! A Netherlander does not find it easy to drink the
health of his Spanish majesty from his heart.

Ruysum. Who?

Soest (aloud).

Philip the Second, King of Spain.

Ruysum.

Our most gracious king and master! Long life to him.

Soest. Did you not like his father, Charles the Fifth,
better?

Ruysum. God bless him! He was a king indeed! His hand reached
over the whole earth, and he was all in all. Yet, when he met
you, he'd greet you just as one neighbour greets another,--and
if you were frightened, he knew so well how to put you at your
ease--ay, you understand me--he walked out, rode out, just as it
came into his head, with very few followers.

We all wept when he resigned the government here to his son.
You understand me--he is another sort of man, he's more majestic.

Jetter. When he was here, he never appeared in public, except in
pomp and royal state.

He speaks little, they say.

Soest. He is no king for us Netherlanders. Our princes must be joyous
and free like ourselves, must live and let live.

We will neither be despised nor oppressed, good-natured fools though
we be.

Jetter. The king, methinks, were a gracious sovereign enough, if
he had only better counsellors.

Soest. No, no! He has no affection for us Netherlanders; he has
no heart for the people; he loves us not; how then can we love him?

Why is everybody so fond of Count Egmont? Why are we all so devoted
to him? Why, because one can read in his face that he loves us;
because joyousness, open-heartedness, and good-nature, speak in his
eyes; because he possesses nothing that he does not share with him
who needs it, ay, and with him who needs it not. Long live Count
Egmont! Buyck, it is for you to give the first toast; give us your
master's health.

Buyck. With all my heart; here's to Count Egmont! Hurrah!

Ruysum Conqueror of St. Quintin.

Buyck. The hero of Gravelines.
All. Hurrah!
Ruysum. St. Quintin was my last battle. I was hardly able to crawl
along, and could with difficulty carry my heavy rifle. I managed,
notwithstanding, to singe the skin of the French once more, and,
as a parting gift, received a grazing shot in my right leg.
Buyck. Gravelines! Ha, my friends, we had sharp work of it there!
The victory was all our own. Did not those French dogs carry fire
and desolation into the very heart of Flanders? We gave it them,
however!
The old hard-listed veterans held out bravely for a while, but we
pushed on, fired away, and laid about us, till they made wry faces,
and their lines gave way. Then Egmont's horse was shot under him;
and for a long time we fought pell-mell, man to man, horse to horse,
troop to troop, on the broad, flat, sea-sand. Suddenly, as if from
heaven, down came the cannon shot from the mouth of the river, bang,
bang, right into the midst of the French. These were English, who,
under Admiral Malin, happened to be sailing past from Dunkirk. They
did not help us much, 'tis true; they could only approach with their
smallest vessels, and that not near enough;--besides, their shot
fell sometimes among our troops. It did some good, however! It broke
the French lines, and raised our courage. Away it went. Helter-skelter!
topsy-turvy! all struck dead, or forced into the water; the fellows
were drowned the moment they tasted the water, while we Hollanders
dashed in after them. Being amphibious, we were as much in our
element as frogs, and hacked away at the enemy, and shot them down
as if they had been ducks. The few who struggled through, were
struck dead in their flight by the peasant women, armed with hoes
and pitchforks. His Gallic majesty was compelled at once to hold
out his paw and make peace.Most surely she would
have been at Bures with us but for some spring-time sickness which
was among the village children, and from which my mother sought to
keep her free. It might be that the thane had returned, but it was
in my mind that the manner of Grinkel's coming boded ill to all of
us.

So I rode on quickly down the hill towards the river. I knew not
how near the Danes might be, but I thought little of them, until
suddenly through the dusk I saw a red point of fire flicker and
broaden out into flame on a hilltop eastward, where I knew a beacon
fire was piled against need. And then from every point along the
Stour valley beacon after beacon flashed out in answer, until all
the countryside was full of them; and I hurried on more swiftly
than before.

Our hall stood on the hill crest above church and village, beyond
the reach of creeping river mist and sudden floods, and I rode down
the track that crosses the lower road and so comes to the ford
below Osgod's place on the Essex side of the river. "I was," faltered
the Samsonian schneider.

"I know it, sir--you are fined five shillings, sir--but if you
choose to submit to the deprivation of that iniquitous hair, which
has brought you here, and which, I repeat, will make you do anything,
I will remit the fine."

Then up the road from eastward rode two men at an easy gallop, and
my horse's manner told me that a stable mate of his was coming, so
I feared no longer but went into the main road to meet them.

"What news?" I cried, and they halted.

"It is the young master," said one, and I knew the voice of Edred,
our housecarle. And when he was close to me I could see that he was
in almost as evil plight as had been Grinkel his comrade. The other
man I knew not, but he bore a headless spear shaft in his hand, and
Edred's shield had a great gash across it.

"Master, has Grinkel come?" Edred asked me.

"Aye, and is dead. He bade us fly, and could say no more. What of
my father?"

The men looked at one another for a moment, and then Edred said
very sadly:

"Woe is me that I must be the bearer of heavy tidings to you and
the lady your mother. But what is true is true and must be told.
Never has such a battle been fought in East Anglia, and the fortune
of war has gone against us."

The fear that I had read in my mother's eyes fell cold on me at
those words-and I asked again, longing and fearing to know the
worst:

"What of the thane, my father?"

"Master, he fell with the first," Edred answered with a breaking of
his voice. "Nor might we bring him from the place where he fell.
For the Danes swept us from the field at the last like dead leaves
in the wind, and there was nought left us but to fly. Two long
hours we fought first, and then came flight. They say one man began
it. I know not; but it was no man of ours. Now the Danes are
marching hitherwards to Colchester."

"What of Osgod of Wormingford?" I asked.

"He lies beside our lord. There is a ring of slain round them. I
would I were there also," the warrior answered.

"Then were there one less to care for our helpless ones," I said.
"All are preparing for flight at Bures. Come with me to
Wormingford, and we will warn them. There is work to do for us who
are left."

Crime fell from the shoulders of the quondam culprit, and the tonsorial
innocent stood forth confessed!

Sir Peter was entranced. That was his doing! He gazed with pride
upon the new absolved from sin. He asked, "Are you not more comfortable?"

All vice had gone, save one--the young man answered "Yes," and
_lied_.

"Then, sir, go home."
"The barber," muttered "soft Roe" in as soft a voice.

"What of him?"

"Wants a shillin'."
"There it is," exclaimed the Augustine Peter, "there, from my own
pocket, paid with pleasure to preserve that youth from the evil
influence of too much hair--I'll pay for all the City if they
like--and banished suicide, and I'll pretty soon see if I can't
settle all the City crops.

Prisoner, you are discharged."

The young man lost his hair, the Queen five shillings, and Sir Peter
one; but then he gained his end,--and docking must henceforth be
looked upon as the treadmill's antidote, and young man's fines'
best friend.

We therefore say, should the iniquity of your long locks, gentle
reader, take you to the station (for, remember, Sir Peter says,
_Long hair will do anything_), if you can't find bail, secure a
barber, and command your liberation.

We have been speculating of these externally-illustrated grades of
crime; we think the following nearly correct:--
The long and lank indicates larceny (petty and otherwise).

The bushy and bountiful--burglary.

The full and flowing--felony.

The magnificent and mysterious--murder.

And, for aught we know, pigtails--polygamy.

For the future, a thinking man's motto will be, not to mind "his
own eye," but everybody else's hair.

P.S. We have just received the following horrifying communication
which establishes Sir Peter's opinion, "that a man with such hair
would do anything," but unfortunately disproves the remedy, as those
atrocities have been committed when he was without.

Now she came towards me swiftly, and did not wait for me
to speak first.

"What will you at this hour, Redwald?" she said.

"Nought but pressing need bade me come thus," I answered. "The levy
is broken, and the Danes are on the way to Colchester. My mother
flies to London, and you and Hertha must do likewise."

"So your father and hers are slain," she said, looking fixedly at
me, and standing very still.

"How know you that?" I asked sharply, for I had told the steward
nothing.

"By your face, Redwald," she said; "you were but a boy two days
agone, now you have a man's work on your hands, and you will do it.
Who bade you ride here?"

"No one," I said, wondering, "needs must that I should come."

"That is as I thought," she said; "but we cannot fly."

"Why not?"

"Because the sickness that your mother feared is on Hertha, and she
cannot go."

Now I was ready to weep, but that would be of no use.

"Is there danger to her?" I said, and I could not keep my voice
from shaking, for Hertha was all the sister I had, and she in time
would be nearer than that to me.

"None," answered the dame, "save she runs risk of chill. For she
has been fevered for a while."

"Which is most to be feared," said I, "chill, or risk of Danish
cruelty?"

She made no answer, but asked me what were my mother's plans. And
when I said that she would fly to Ethelred the king, the old nurse
laughed strangely to herself.

"Then you go to the very cause of all this trouble," she said.
"Truly the king's name should be 'the Unredy', for rede he has
none. It is his ill counsel that has brought Swein the Dane on us.
We have to pay for the Hock-tide slayings {3}."

"We had no share in that" I said.

"No, because half our folk are Danes, more or less, some of the men
of Ingvar and Guthrum. But Swein will not care for that--they are
all English to him."

"What will you do, then?" I asked, growing half wild that she
should stand there quietly and plan nought.

"These folk will side with Swein presently, when they find that he
is the stronger, and then the old kinship will wake in them, and
the Wessex king will be nought to their minds. Then will be peace
here, for the Danes will sweep on to Mercia and London. Do you go
to Ethelred the Unredy--and I abiding here shall be the safer in
the end, and Hertha with me."

"But peace has not come yet" I said.

"I can hide until it does come," she said. And then, for my face
must have shown all the doubt that I felt, she spoke very kindly to
me. "Trust the old witch who wishes you well, Redwald, my son; she
who has nursed Hertha for so long will care for her till the last;
safe she will be until you return to find her when the foolishness
of Ethelred is paid for."

"Where can you hide?" I asked, and urged her to tell me more, but
she would not do so.

"No man would dream of the hiding place that I shall seek," she
said, "and I will tell it to none. Then will it be the surer."

"I know all this country," I answered. "There is no place."

She smiled faintly, and paused a little, thinking.

"I will tell you this," she said at last. "You go to the king;
well--I go to the queen. That is all you may know. But maybe it
will be enough to guide you someday."

I could not understand what she meant; nor would she tell me more.
Only she said that all would be safe, and that I need fear nothing
either for Hertha or for herself.

"My forbears were safe in that place to which I go," she said; "and
I alone know where it is. When the time comes, Hertha shall tell
you of it but that must wait for the days to be."

"I fear they will be long. Let me see Hertha before I go," I said,
"for I must needs be content."

"How looked she when last you saw her?"

"Well, and bright, and happy," I answered.

"Keep that memory of her therefore," Gunnhild said. "I would not
have you see her in sickness, nor may she be waked without danger.
Tell your mother that surely if she could take Hertha with her it
should be so, but it may not be. She would be harmed by a long
journey."

The old nurse turned and left me as swiftly as she had come. And
now it is in my mind that she went thus lest she should weep. So I
was alone in the hall, and there was no more left for me to do. I
must even let things be as she would. It came into my thought that
she was right about our half-Danish folk, for though they had
fought to keep the newcomers from the land that their fathers had
won, Swein was no foreigner, and they would as soon own him as
Ethelred of Wessex, if he got the upper hand and would give them
peace. The Italian, the Spaniard, the French, the Englishman, the
German and the Dutchman can find out all about the different
watering-places of Europe, each one in his own native tongue, and
all about "the Court of Arches" in London and Madrid.

There is the Jewish and also the Mahommedan Calendar, but I see
nothing about the Greek Kalends. I am not quite sure that the
Bulgarians will be quite satisfied, and I should say, that the
Aborigines of Central Africa will have a distinct grievance,
which M. FRÉDERIC MAYER will rectify after an interview with Mr.
STANLEY. It's a wonderful production, and as it gives postal rates
and cab-fares in ever so many languages, it will be of great practical
value to the traveller. But no list of cab-fares is perfect without
a model row with the driver in eight languages, including some
bad language and directions as to the shortest route to the nearest
police court.

Our good Doctor ROOSE _in urbe_, has just published a _brochure_,
dealing with the origin, treatment, and prevention (for there is
apparently no cure) of the fell disease to which, and for a multitude
of whose victims, Father DAMIEN died a martyr. If in the Doctor's
treatment of this subject after his own peculiar fashion _à la_
ROOSE, he can help to alleviate present suffering and materially
assist the crusade now being undertaken against this common enemy,
he will have contributed his share of energy in starting 1890
hopefully.

But I may not
leave my place. The Danes are not all heathen as they were in
Eadmund's days, and I think that I am wrong to go. When our folk
come back they must find their priest waiting for them."

Then I strove to turn him again to flight with us, but I could not,
and at last he commanded me to desist and leave him. And so he gave
me his blessing, and I went, being sure that he would be slain, and
weeping therefore, for I loved him well. But I told him of Dame
Gunnhild's words, and begged him to seek her and speak with her,
for she might hide him also for a while if he would not leave the
place altogether.

So we left our home, and that was the last time I set eyes on our
hall at Bures. Our quill trembles as we proceed; it is unequal
to the task. Oh, that we could write with the whole goose upon
the wondrous merits of the wondrous Peter!

We are better.

That bumper has restored our nerve.

Reader, fancy the gifted Peter seated in the dull dignity of civic
magistracy: the court is thronged--a young delinquent blinks like
an owl in sunshine 'neath the mighty flashing of his bench-lit eye.
His crime, ay, what's his crime? it can't be much--so pale, so thin,
so woe-begone!"Bide in your homes till you must needs take to the woods," she
said; and that was wise counsel, and many were glad thereafter that
they took it, for the Danes passed them by.

Now I remember all that happened on our journey to London along the
great Roman road that runs from Colchester thither, but there is
little to tell thereof, for it was safe and we hardly hurried after
the first day. We rested at the house of a thane who was well known
to us on the first evening, and there my mother heard from Edred
all that had befallen. And she bore the heavy tidings well, for she
had already given up any hope that my father still lived. Yet as I
look back I know that she was never the same after that day.

