Within a period of two years he devised no less than thirty
different methods of flying, all of which, of course, came to
nothing, but go to show the fertile imagination of the man, and
his tireless energy. He experimented with electricity and made
some novel suggestions upon the difference between the electric
spark and the glow, although on the whole his contributions in
this field are unimportant. He also first pointed out that the
motions of the heavenly bodies must be looked upon as a
mechanical problem, and was almost within grasping distance of
the exact theory of gravitation, himself originating the idea of
making use of the pendulum in measuring gravity. NICKLAUSSE.

Hoffman! Hoffman--the police!

(Nicklausse drags Hoffmann away. Giulietta and Pitichinaccia
laugh.)

ACT IV.

(At Munich at CRESPEL'S. A room furnished in a bizarre fashion.)

ANTONIA (alone. She is seated at the clavichord).
She has fled, the dove She has fled far from thee!
(She stops and rises.) 
Ah memory too sweet, image too cruel!
Alas at my knees I hear, I see him!
She has fled, the dove.
She has fled far from thee; She is faithful ever, And she keeps her
troth.
Beloved, my voice calls thee, All my heart is thine.
(She approaches the clavichord again.)
Dear flower but now open, In pity answer me, Thou that knowest if
still he loves me, If he keeps his troth.
Beloved my voice implores thee.
May thy heart come to me.Even a century later, had physicians made better
use of their microscopes, they could hardly have overlooked such
an easily found parasite as the itch mite, which is quite as
easily detected as the cheese mite, pictured in Hooke's book.

In justice to Hooke, and in extenuation of his otherwise
inexcusable peculiarities of mind, it should be remembered that
for many years he suffered from a painful and wasting disease.
This may have affected his mental equilibrium, without
appreciably affecting his ingenuity. In his own time this
condition would hardly have been considered a disease; but
to-day, with our advanced ideas as to mental diseases, we should
be more inclined to ascribe his unfortunate attitude of mind to a
pathological condition, rather than to any manifestation of
normal mentality. From this point of view his mental deformity
seems not unlike that of Cavendish's, later, except that in the
case of Cavendish it manifested itself as an abnormal
sensitiveness instead of an abnormal irritability.


CHRISTIAN HUYGENS

If for nothing else, the world is indebted to the man who
invented the pendulum clock, Christian Huygens (1629-1695), of
the Hague, inventor, mathematician, mechanician, astronomer, and
physicist. Huygens was the descendant of a noble and
distinguished family, his father, Sir Constantine Huygens, being
a well-known poet and diplomatist. Early in life young Huygens
began his career in the legal profession, completing his
education in the juridical school at Breda; but his taste for
mathematics soon led him to neglect his legal studies, and his
aptitude for scientific researches was so marked that Descartes
predicted great things of him even while he was a mere tyro in
the field of scientific investigation.

One of his first endeavors in science was to attempt an
improvement of the telescope. Reflecting upon the process of
making lenses then in vogue, young Huygens and his brother
Constantine attempted a new method of grinding and polishing,
whereby they overcame a great deal of the spherical and chromatic
aberration. With this new telescope a much clearer field of
vision was obtained, so much so that Huygens was able to detect,
among other things, a hitherto unknown satellite of Saturn. It
was these astronomical researches that led him to apply the
pendulum to regulate the movements of clocks. The need for some
more exact method of measuring time in his observations of the
stars was keenly felt by the young astronomer, and after several
experiments along different lines, Huygens hit upon the use of a
swinging weight; and in 1656 made his invention of the pendulum
clock. The year following, his clock was presented to the
states-general. Accuracy as to time is absolutely essential in
astronomy, but until the invention of Huygens's clock there was
no precise, nor even approximately precise, means of measuring
short intervals.

Huygens was one of the first to adapt the micrometer to the
telescope--a mechanical device on which all the nice
determination of minute distances depends. He also took up the
controversy against Hooke as to the superiority of telescopic
over plain sights to quadrants, Hooke contending in favor of the
plain. In this controversy, the subject of which attracted wide
attention, Huygens was completely victorious; and Hooke, being
unable to refute Huygens's arguments, exhibited such irritability
that he increased his already general unpopularity. They are all
alike.

NATHANAEL.

Then your mistress is such a treasure That you despise so much
our own?

HOFFMANN.

My mistress, no, no, say rather three Charming trio of
enchantresses.
Who are dividing my days.
Would you like the story of my crazy loves?...

CHORUS.
Yes, yes!

NICKLAUSSE.
What are you saying of three mistresses?

HOFFMANN.

Smoke!...
Before this dead pipe is relighted You will have comprehended, You
who in this play where my heart was consumed In good sense took the
first prize!

(All the students go to their places.) 

CHORUS.
Listen. It is nice to drink, To the telling of a crazy tale, While
following the fragrant cloud, That a pipe throws in the air.
HOFFMANN (sitting on corner of table).

I begin.During the later part of his life, however,
Huygens again devoted himself to inventing and constructing
telescopes, grinding the lenses, and devising, if not actually
making, the frame for holding them. These telescopes were of
enormous lengths, three of his object-glasses, now in possession
of the Royal Society, being of 123, 180, and 210 feet focal
length respectively. Such instruments, if constructed in the
ordinary form of the long tube, were very unmanageable, and to
obviate this Huygens adopted the plan of dispensing with the tube
altogether, mounting his lenses on long poles manipulated by
machinery. Even these were unwieldy enough, but the difficulties
of manipulation were fully compensated by the results obtained.

It had been discovered, among other things, that in oblique
refraction light is separated into colors. Therefore, any small
portion of the convex lens of the telescope, being a prism, the
rays proceed to the focus, separated into prismatic colors, which
make the image thus formed edged with a fringe of color and
indistinct. But, fortunately for the early telescope makers, the
degree of this aberration is independent of the focal length of
the lens; so that, by increasing this focal length and using the
appropriate eye-piece, the image can be greatly magnified, while
the fringe of colors remains about the same as when a less
powerful lens is used. Hence the advantage of Huygens's long
telescope. He did not confine his efforts to simply lengthening
the focal length of his telescopes, however, but also added to
their efficiency by inventing an almost perfect achromatic
eye-piece.

In 1663 he was elected a fellow of the Royal Society of London,
and in 1669 he gave to that body a concise statement of the laws
governing the collision of elastic bodies. Although the same
views had been given by Wallis and Wren a few weeks earlier,
there is no doubt that Huygens's views were reached
independently; and it is probable that he had arrived at his
conclusions several years before. Ah, what is this voice
that troubles my spirit?
Is it Hell that speaks or Heaven that warns me?
No! happiness is not there, oh cursed voice, And against my pride
my love has armed me; Glory is not worth the happy shade whence
invites me The house of my beloved.

MIRACLE.
What loves can now be yours, Hoffman sacrifices you to his brutality,
He only loves in you your beauty, And for him as for the others.
Soon will come the time of infidelity.

(He disappears.)
ANTONIA (rising).

No, do not tempt me!Although
Huygens's report was received last, he was anticipated by such a
brief space of time, and his views are so clearly stated--on the
whole rather more so than those of the other two--that we give
them in part here:


"1. If a hard body should strike against a body equally hard at
rest, after contact the former will rest and the latter acquire a
velocity equal to that of the moving body.

"2. But if that other equal body be likewise in motion, and
moving in the same direction, after contact they will move with
reciprocal velocities.

"3. A body, however great, is moved by a body however small
impelled with any velocity whatsoever.

"5. The quantity of motion of two bodies may be either increased
or diminished by their shock; but the same quantity towards the
same part remains, after subtracting the quantity of the contrary
motion.

"6. The sum of the products arising from multiplying the mass of
any hard body into the squares of its velocity is the same both
before and after the stroke.

"7. A hard body at rest will receive a greater quantity of motion
from another hard body, either greater or less than itself, by
the interposition of any third body of a mean quantity, than if
it was immediately struck by the body itself; and if the
interposing body be a mean proportional between the other two,
its action upon the quiescent body will be the greatest of
all."[10]


This was only one of several interesting and important
communications sent to the Royal Society during his lifetime. One
of these was a report on what he calls "Pneumatical Experiments."
"Upon including in a vacuum an insect resembling a beetle, but
somewhat larger," he says, "when it seemed to be dead, the air
was readmitted, and soon after it revived; putting it again in
the vacuum, and leaving it for an hour, after which the air was
readmitted, it was observed that the insect required a longer
time to recover; including it the third time for two days, after
which the air was admitted, it was ten hours before it began to
stir; but, putting it in a fourth time, for eight days, it never
afterwards recovered.... She was only an automaton. Hoffmann is
astonished.

ACT III. GIULIETTA.

At Venice, in the house of Giulietta, beloved of Schlemil, who
takes the arrival of Hoffmann very ungraciously. Hoffmann cares
nothing for Giulietta, but she is bribed by Dapertutto to make
Hoffmann love her, and she succeeds by making him believe, that
he is her ideal. But as a proof of his love she wants Hoffmann
to get the key of her room away from Schlemil. Hoffmann demands
the key; Schlemil tells him to come and take it, and they fight.
Schlemil is killed. Hoffmann takes the key and rushes to
Giulietta's room, and finding nobody, comes back, only to see her
riding off in her gondola, laughing at him, and with
her arms around another man's neck. Hoffmann is disgusted.

ACT IV. ANTONIA.

Antonia has been told by her father, Crespel, to sing no
more. When Hoffmann, who has long loved her, comes, he wonders
why, but he soon learns by overhearing a conversation between
Crespel and an evil person called Doctor Miracle that Antonia is
afflicted with consumption. He then begs her also not to sing, and
she promises him. When Hoffmann goes, Miracle comes in and tells
her it is all nonsense, to sing as much as she likes; but she will
not break her promise to Hoffmann. Miracle then causes the
ghost of Antonia's mother to appear, and to her prayers the
girl yields. Miracle urges her on and on, until she is
utterly exhausted. She falls dying, and her father receives her
last breath.
Hoffmann is heartbroken.

EPILOGUE.
A return to the scene of the first act. Hoffmann has told his
stories.
His companions leave him. The Muse appears and tells him that she
is the only mistress to follow, the only one who will remain true
to him. His spirit flickers a moment with gratitude. Then his head
sinks on the table, and he sleeps.

The Tales of Hoffmann
ACT I.
(The Tavern of Martin Luther. The interior of a German inn. Tables
and benches.) 

CHORUS of Students.In this work,
also, was the true determination of the relation between the
length of a pendulum and the time of its oscillation.

In 1681 he returned to Holland, influenced, it is believed, by
the attitude that was being taken in France against his religion.
Here he continued his investigations, built his immense
telescopes, and, among other things, discovered "polarization,"
which is recorded in Traite de la Lumiere, published at Leyden in
1690. Five years later he died, bequeathing his manuscripts to
the University of Leyden. It is interesting to note that he never
accepted Newton's theory of gravitation as a universal property
of matter.


XI. NEWTON AND THE COMPOSITION OF LIGHT

Galileo, that giant in physical science of the early seventeenth
century, died in 1642. On Christmas day of the same year there
was born in England another intellectual giant who was destined
to carry forward the work of Copernicus, Kepler, and Galileo to a
marvellous consummation through the discovery of the great
unifying law in accordance with which the planetary motions are
performed. We refer, of course, to the greatest of English
physical scientists, Isaac Newton, the Shakespeare of the
scientific world. Born thus before the middle of the seventeenth
century, Newton lived beyond the first quarter of the eighteenth
(1727). For the last forty years of that period his was the
dominating scientific personality of the world. With full
propriety that time has been spoken of as the "Age of Newton."

Yet the man who was to achieve such distinction gave no early
premonition of future greatness. He was a sickly child from
birth, and a boy of little seeming promise. He was an indifferent
student, yet, on the other hand, he cared little for the common
amusements of boyhood. He early exhibited, however, a taste for
mechanical contrivances, and spent much time in devising
windmills, water-clocks, sun-dials, and kites. While other boys
were interested only in having kites that would fly, Newton--at
least so the stories of a later time would have us
understand--cared more for the investigation of the seeming
principles involved, or for testing the best methods of attaching
the strings, or the best materials to be used in construction.

Meanwhile the future philosopher was acquiring a taste for
reading and study, delving into old volumes whenever he found an
opportunity. These habits convinced his relatives that it was
useless to attempt to make a farmer of the youth, as had been
their intention. He was therefore sent back to school, and in the
summer of 1661 he matriculated at Trinity College, Cambridge.
Even at college Newton seems to have shown no unusual mental
capacity, and in 1664, when examined for a scholarship by Dr.
Barrow, that gentleman is said to have formed a poor opinion of
the applicant. It is said that the knowledge of the estimate
placed upon his abilities by his instructor piqued Newton, and
led him to take up in earnest the mathematical studies in which
he afterwards attained such distinction. The study of Euclid and
Descartes's "Geometry" roused in him a latent interest in
mathematics, and from that time forward his investigations were
carried on with enthusiasm. In 1667 he was elected Fellow of
Trinity College, taking the degree of M.A. the following spring.

It will thus appear that Newton's boyhood and early manhood were
passed during that troublous time in British political annals
which saw the overthrow of Charles I., the autocracy of Cromwell,
and the eventual restoration of the Stuarts. His maturer years
witnessed the overthrow of the last Stuart and the reign of the
Dutchman, William of Orange. In his old age he saw the first of
the Hanoverians mount the throne of England. Within a decade of
his death such scientific path-finders as Cavendish, Black, and
Priestley were born--men who lived on to the close of the
eighteenth century. In a full sense, then, the age of Newton
bridges the gap from that early time of scientific awakening
under Kepler and Galileo to the time which we of the twentieth
century think of as essentially modern.


THE COMPOSITION OF WHITE LIGHT

In December, 1672, Newton was elected a Fellow of the Royal
Society, and at this meeting a paper describing his invention of
the refracting telescope was read. A few days later he wrote to
the secretary, making some inquiries as to the weekly meetings of
the society, and intimating that he had an account of an
interesting discovery that he wished to lay before the society.
When this communication was made public, it proved to be an
explanation of the discovery of the composition of white light.
In this text, the "[oe]" marking represents the oe ligature.]

NEW VERSION OF 
Les Contes d'Hoffmann (THE TALES OF HOFFMAN)
OPERA IN FOUR ACTS
With an original and novel first Act and other important changes
Book by JULES BARBIER 
MUSIC BY J.Newton proved by demonstrative experiments that white
light is composed of the blending of the rays of diverse colors,
and that the color that we ascribe to any object is merely due to
the fact that the object in question reflects rays of that color,
absorbing the rest. That white light is really made up of many
colors blended would seem incredible had not the experiments by
which this composition is demonstrated become familiar to every
one. The experiments were absolutely novel when Newton brought
them forward, and his demonstration of the composition of light
was one of the most striking expositions ever brought to the
attention of the Royal Society. Divine That a burning desire
Your heart enflames In the fevers of pleasure Consume your
soul!
Transports of love, Last a day To the devil he who weeps For two
soft eyes, To us the better bliss Of joyous cries!
Let's live a day In heaven.

THE CHORUS.Newton was led to his discovery by some experiments made with an
ordinary glass prism applied to a hole in the shutter of a
darkened room, the refracted rays of the sunlight being received
upon the opposite wall and forming there the familiar spectrum.
"It was a very pleasing diversion," he wrote, "to view the vivid
and intense colors produced thereby; and after a time, applying
myself to consider them very circumspectly, I became surprised to
see them in varying form, which, according to the received laws
of refraction, I expected should have been circular. They were
terminated at the sides with straight lines, but at the ends the
decay of light was so gradual that it was difficult to determine
justly what was their figure, yet they seemed semicircular.

