Produced by Don Kostuch


[Transcriber's Notes:

Welcome to the schoolroom of 1900. The moral tone is plain. "She is kind
to the old blind man."

The exercises are still suitable, and perhaps more helpful than some
contemporary alternatives. Much is left to the teacher. Explanations given
in the text are enough to get started teaching a child to read and write.
Counting in Roman numerals is included as a bonus in the form of lesson
numbers.

They do not get that absolute mastery over technical difficulties of figuration
which was the great secret of the incredible facility and spontaneity of
composition displayed by Handel and Bach. Among recent musicians Mendelssohn
is the most thoroughly disciplined in the elements of counterpoint;
and it is this perfect mastery of the technique of his art which
has enabled him to outrank Schubert and Schumann, neither of whom
would one venture to pronounce inferior to him in native wealth of
musical ideas.

This First Reader may be used in teaching reading by any of the methods in
common use; but it is especially adapted to the Phonic Method, the Word
Method, or a combination of the two.

I. Phonic Method.--First teach the elementary sounds and their
representative, the letters marked with diacriticals, as they occur in the
lessons; then, the formation of words by the combination of these sounds.
For instance, teach the pupil to identify the characters a, o, n, d, g, r,
and th, in Lesson I, as the representatives of certain elementary sounds;
then teach him to form the words at the head of the lesson, then other
words, as nag, on, and, etc. Pursue a similar course in teaching the
succeeding lessons. Having read a few lessons in this manner, begin to
teach the names of the letters and the spelling of words, and require the
groups, "a man," "the man," "a pen," to be read as a good reader would
pronounce single words.

II.  When one of the letters in the combinations ou or ow, is marked in
the words at the head of the reading exercises, the other is silent. If
neither is marked, the two letters represent a diphthong. All other
unmarked vowels in the vocabularies, when in combination, are silent
letters. In slate or blackboard work, the silent letters may be canceled.

III. Word Method.--Teach the pupil to identify at sight the words placed
at the head of the reading exercises, and to read these exercises without
hesitation. Having read a few lessons, begin to teach the names of the
letters and the spelling of words.

IV. Word Method and Phonic Method Combined.--Teach the pupil to identify
words and read sentences, as above. Having read a few lessons in this
manner, begin to use the Phonic Method, combining it with the Word Method,
by first teaching the words in each lesson as words; then the elementary
sounds, the names of the letters, and spelling.

V. Teach the pupil to use script letters in writing, when teaching the
names of the letters and the spelling of words.


Copyright, 1879, by Van Antwerp, Bragg & Co.
Copyright, 1896, by American Book Company.
Copyright, 1907 and 1920, by H.H. Vail.

EP486


Preface

In presenting McGuffey’s Revised First Reader to the public, attention is
invited to the following features:

1. Words of only two or three letters are used in the first lessons.
Longer and more difficult ones are gradually introduced as the pupil gains
aptness in the mastery of words.

2. A proper gradation has been carefully preserved. All new words are
placed at the head of each lesson, to be learned before the lesson is
read. Their number in the early lessons is very small, thus making the
first steps easy. All words in these vocabularies are used in the text
immediately following.

3. Carefully engraved script exercises are introduced for a double
purpose. These should be used to teach the reading of script; and may also
serve as copies in slate work.

4. The illustrations have been designed and engraved specially for the
lessons in which they occur. Many of the engravings will serve admirably
as the basis for oral lessons in language.

5. The type is large, strong, and distinct.

The credit for this revision is almost wholly due to the  friends of
McGuffey’s Readers,--eminent teachers and scholars, who have contributed
suggestions and criticisms gained from their daily work in the schoolroom.

Cincinnati, June, 1879.

                                                                     (iii)


THE ALPHABET.

A    a      N   n
B    b      O   o
C    c      P   p
D    d      Q   q
E    e      R   r
F    f      S   s
G    g      T   t
H    h      U   u
I    i      V   v
J    j      W   w
K    k      X   x
L    l      Y   y
M    m      Z   z


[Illustration:

Script Alphabet

A  B  C  D  E  F  G
H  I  J  K  L  M  N
O  P  Q  R  S  Y  U
V  W  X  Y  Z

a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i
j  k  l  m  n  o  p  q
r  s  t  u  v  w  x  y  z

SCRIPT FIGURES

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  0
]


[Illustration: Dog]


McGuffey's FIRST READER.


LESSON I.

dog   the   ran

a   o    n   d   g   r   th


[Illustration: Running dog.]


In the first place, the enforced lowness of prices prevented any
breadstuffs or other provisions from being brought into the city.

It was a long time before Farnese succeeded in so blockading the
Scheldt as to prevent ships laden with eatables from coming in below.

Corn and preserved meats might have been hurried by thousands of
tons into the beleaguered city.

Friendly Dutch vessels, freighted with abundance, were waiting at
the mouth of the river.

But all to no purpose.

No merchant would expose his valuable ship, with its cargo, to the
risk of being sunk by Farnese's batteries, merely for the sake of
finding a market no better than a hundred others which could be
entered without incurring danger.

No doubt if the merchants of Holland had followed out the maxim
Vivre pour autrui, they would have braved ruin and destruction
rather than behold their neighbours of Antwerp enslaved.

No doubt if they could have risen to a broad philosophic view of
the future interests of the Netherlands, they would have seen that
Antwerp must be saved, no matter if some of them were to lose money
by it.

But men do not yet sacrifice themselves for their fellows, nor do
they as a rule look far beyond the present moment and its emergencies.

And the business of government is to legislate for men as they are,
not as it is supposed they ought to be.

If provisions had brought a high price in Antwerp, they would have
been carried thither.

As it was, the city, by its own stupidity, blockaded itself far
more effectually than Farnese could have done it.

In the second place, the enforced lowness of prices prevented any
general retrenchment on the part of the citizens.

Nobody felt it necessary to economize.

Every one bought as much bread, and ate it as freely, as if the
government by insuring its cheapness had insured its abundance.

So the city lived in high spirits and in gleeful defiance of its
besiegers, until all at once provisions gave out, and the government
had to step in again to palliate the distress which it had wrought.

It constituted itself quartermaster-general to the community, and
doled out stinted rations alike to rich and poor, with that stern
democratic impartiality peculiar to times of mortal peril.

But this served only, like most artificial palliatives, to lengthen
out the misery.

At the time of the surrender, not a loaf of bread could be obtained
for love or money.

In this way a bungling act of legislation helped to decide for the
worse a campaign which involved the territorial integrity and future
welfare of what might have become a great nation performing a
valuable function in the system of European communities.

The striking character of this instructive example must be our
excuse for presenting it at such length.

At the beginning of the famine in Bengal the authorities legislated
in very much the same spirit as the burghers who had to defend
Antwerp against Parma.

"By interdicting what it was pleased to term the monopoly of grain,
it prevented prices from rising at once to their natural rates.

The Province had a certain amount of food in it, and this food had
to last about nine months.

Private enterprise if left to itself would have stored up the general
supply at the harvest, with a view to realizing a larger profit at
a later period in the scarcity.

Prices would in consequence have immediately risen, compelling the
population to reduce their consumption from the very beginning of
the dearth.

The sun is up. The man has fed the black hen and the fat duck.

Now the duck will swim in the pond. The hen has run to her nest.

Let us not stop at the pond now, for it is hot.

See how still it is! We will go to see Tom and his top.


LESSON XV.

John    rock     set    jump    fun    must

may     un'der   skip   bank    but    touch


O John! the sun has just set. It is not hot, now.

Let us run and jump. I think it is fun to run, and skip, and jump.

See the duck on the pond! Her nest is up on the bank, under the rock.

We must not touch the nest, but we may look at it


LESSON XVI. REVIEW.

The sun has set, and the pond is still.

John, Ned, Ben, Tom, and Nell stand on the bank, and look at the duck.


The dog with a black spot on his back, is with Tom. See! Tom has his hat
in his hand. He has left his big top on the box.

Kitty's doll is on the rock. Nell has put her pet in the cage. It will
sing a sweet song. The duck has her nest under the rock.

It is not hot now. Let us run, and skip, and jump on the bank. Do you not
think it is fun?


LESSON XVII.

are    ink    moss    this    tub    up set'    a


SLATE WORK

[Illustration: Script Exercise:
The pen and the ink are on
the stand.  Is this a good
pen?  The moss is on the
rock.  This duck can swim.
Ben upset the tub.
]


LESSON XVIII.

nut    did    shut    shall    lost    fox

men    met    step    in'to    hunt    mud


SLATE WORK.

[Illustration: Script Exercise:

Will the dog hunt a fox?
Ben lost his hat. Shall I
shut the box? I met him
on the step. Did you jump
into the mud? I have a
nut. I met the man.
]


LESSON XIX.

Kate    old     no     grass    dear    likes

be      drink   milk   cow      out     gives

a


[Illustration: Cow standing in pond.]


O Kate! the old cow is in the pond: see her drink! Will she not come out
to get some grass?

No, John, she likes to be in the pond. See how still she stands!

The dear old cow gives us sweet milk to drink.


LESSON XX.

mam ma'    large    as      pa pa     arms      ride

far        barn     both    Prince    trot      your


[Illustration: Man and girl riding a horse.]


Papa, will you let me ride with you on Prince? I will sit still in your
arms.

See, mamma! We are both on Prince. How large he is!

Get up, Prince! You are not too fat to trot as far as the barn.


LESSON XXI.

of      that    toss     fall               well      Fan'ny

ball    wall    was      pret'ty(prit-)     done      what

a       a


[Illustration: Two girls standing in meadow play with a ball.]


O Fanny, what a pretty ball!

Yes; can you catch it, Ann?

Toss it to me, and see. I will not let it fall.

That was well done

Now, Fanny, toss it to the top of the wall, if you can.


LESSON XXII.

had    went    call    might    flag    near    swam    swing


[Illustration: Woman and two girls standing by gate in fence.]


Did you call us, mamma?

I went with Tom to the pond. I had my doll, and Tom had his flag.

The fat duck swam to the bank, and we fed her. Did you think we might fall
into the pond?

We did not go too near, did we, Tom?

May we go to the swing, now, mamma?


LESSON XXIII.

here    band     hear     horse    play    they

pass    where    front    fine     hope    comes

e       e


[Illustration: Two boy standing on porch as band passes in street.]


Here comes the band! Shall we call mamma and Fanny to see it?

Let us stand still, and hear the men play as they pass.

I hope they will stop here and play for us.

See the large man in front of the band, with his big hat. What has he in
his hand? How fine he looks!

Look, too, at the man on that fine horse.

If the men do not stop, let us go with them and see where they go.


LESSON XXIV.

Bess       hap'py    make    cart       tent    woods

lit'tle    ver'y     bed     Rob'ert    gone    draw


[Illustration: Boy and girl with goat-cart in woods; tent in background.]


Bess and Robert are very happy; papa and mamma have gone to the woods with
them.

Robert has a big tent and a flag, and Bess has a little bed for her doll.

Jip is with them. Robert will make him draw Bess and her doll in the cart.


LESSON XXV.

James    Ma'ry   made    sang    my        lay

sport    spade   lap     dig     doll's    sand

said (sed)       y


[Illustration: Boy talking to girl sitting on steps with a doll.]


"Kate, will you play with me?" said James. "We will dig in the sand with
this little spade. That will be fine sport."

"Not now James" said Kate; "for I must make my doll's bed. Get Mary to
play with you."

James went to get Mary to play with him. Then Kate made the doll's bed.

She sang a song to her doll, and the doll lay very still in her lap.

Did the doll hear Kate sing?


LESSON XXVI.

its    shade    brook     picks    all

by     help     stones    glad     soft


[Illustration: Two girls and boy in the woods.]


Kate has left her doll in its little bed, and has gone to play with Mary
and James. They are all in the shade, now, by the brook.

James digs in the soft sand with his spade, and Mary picks up little
stones and puts them in her lap.

James and Mary are glad to see Kate. She will help them pick up stones and
dig, by the little brook.


1,3.


LESSON XXVII. REVIEW

"What shall we do?" said Fanny to John. "I do not like to sit still. Shall
we hunt for eggs in the barn?"

"No" said John; "I like to play on the grass. According to this doctrine--which
was borrowed from the Zarathustrian theology of Persia--the Messiah
on his arrival was to free from Sheol all the souls of the righteous,
causing them to ascend reinvested in their bodies to a renewed and
beautiful earth, while on the other hand the wicked were to be
punished with tortures like those of the valley of Hinnom, or were
to be immersed in liquid brimstone, like that which had rained upon
Sodom and Gomorrah.

Here we get the first announcement of a future state of retribution. The
doctrine was peculiarly Pharisaic, and the Sadducees, who were
strict adherents to the letter of Mosaism, rejected it to the last.

By degrees this doctrine became coupled with the Messianic theories of the
Pharisees.

The loss of Jewish independence under the dominion of Persians, Macedonians,
and Romans, caused the people to look ever more earnestly toward
the expected time when the Messiah should appear in Jerusalem to
deliver them from their oppressors.

The moral doctrines of the Psalms and earlier prophets assumed an
increasingly political aspect.

The Jews were the righteous "under a cloud," whose sufferings were
symbolically depicted by the younger Isaiah as the afflictions of
the "servant of Jehovah"; while on the other hand, the "wicked"
were the Gentile oppressors of the holy people.

Accordingly the Messiah, on his arrival, was to sit in judgment in
the valley of Jehoshaphat, rectifying the wrongs of his chosen ones,
condemning the Gentile tyrants to the torments of Gehenna, and
raising from Sheol all those Jews who had lived and died during the
evil times before his coming.

These were to find in the Messianic kingdom the compensation for
the ills which they had suffered in their first earthly existence.

Such are the main outlines of the theory found in the Book of Enoch, written
about B.

C. 100, and it is adopted in the Johannine Apocalypse, with little variation,
save in the recognition of Jesus as the Messiah, and in the
transferrence to his second coming of all these wonderful proceedings.

The manner of the Messiah's coming had been variously imagined. According
to an earlier view, he was to enter Jerusalem as a King of the
house of David, and therefore of human lineage.

According to a later view, presented in the Book of Daniel, he was
to descend from the sky, and appear among the clouds.

Both these views were adopted by the disciples of Jesus, who
harmonized them by referring the one to his first and the other to
his second appearance.

Now to the imaginations of these earliest disciples the belief in
the resurrection of Jesus presented itself as a needful guarantee
of his Messiahship.

Their faith, which must have been shaken by his execution and descent
into Sheol, received welcome confirmation by the springing up of
the belief that he had been again seen upon the face of the earth.

Applying the imagery of Daniel, it became a logical conclusion that
he must have ascended into the sky, whence he might shortly be
expected to make his appearance, to enact the scenes foretold in
prophecy.

That such was the actual process of inference is shown by the legend of
the Ascension in the first chapter of the "Acts," and especially
by the words, "This Jesus who hath been taken up from you into
heaven, will come in the same manner in which ye beheld him going
into heaven."

June    Lu'cy's    air           kind    trees     sing'ing    blue

when    pure       says (sez)    sky     pic'nic   u           a


[Illustration: Woman and girl sitting under a tree.]


"What a bright June day! The air is pure. The sky is as blue as it can be.

Lucy and her mamma are in the woods. They have found a nice spot, where
there is some grass.

They sit in the shade of the trees, and Lucy is singing.

The trees are not large, but they make a good shade.

Lucy's kind mamma says that they will have a picnic when her papa can get
a tent.


LESSON XXXIII. REVIEW.

James and Robert have gone into the shade of a high wall to play ball.

Mary and Lucy have come up from the pond near by, with brave old Ponto, to
see them play.

When they toss the ball up in the air, and try to catch it, Ponto runs to
get it in his mouth.

Now the ball is lost. They all look for it under the trees and in the
grass; but they can not see it. Where can it be?

See! Ponto has found it. Here he comes with it. He will lay it at little
Lucy's feet, or put it in her hand.


LESSON XXXIV.

boy     our       spoil    hur rah'    own      coil

noise   fourth    such     join        thank    a bout'

hoist   pay       Ju ly'   playing     oi


[Illustration: Five boys carrying a large American flag. Man in background
is smoking a pipe.]


"Papa, may we have the big flag?" said James.

"What can my little boy do with such a big flag?"

"Hoist it on our tent, papa. We are playing Fourth of July."

"Is that what all this noise is about? Why not hoist your own flags?"

"Oh! they are too little."

"You might spoil my flag."

"Then we will all join to pay for it. But we will not spoil it, papa."

"Take it, then, and take the coil of rope with it."

"Oh! thank you. Hurrah for the flag, boys!"


LESSON XXXV.

fin'ished    bon'net    les'son    saved        white     a way'

I've         am         work       scam'per     read'y    gar'den


[Illustration: White kitten lapping milk from a bowl.]


THE WHITE KITTEN.

[Illustration: Script Exercise:

Kitty, my pretty, white kitty.
   Why do you scamper away?
I've finished my work and my lesson
   And now I am ready for play.

Come, kitty, my own little kitty.
   I've saved you some milk come and see.
Now drink while I put on my bonnet,
   And play in the garden with me.
]


LESSON XXXVI.

care    al'ways       line     Frank

row     been (bin)    keeps    home


[Illustration: Boy untying a white boat from post in pond.]


Frank has a pretty boat. It is white, with a black line near the water.

He keeps it in the pond, near his home. He always takes good care of it.

Frank has been at work in the garden, and will now row a while.


LESSON XXXVII.

much    one (wun)     yet     hun'gry

seen    grand'ma      corn    would    o


[Illustration: Two children on porch. Girl is holding a bowl.
Boy is seated on the step holding a model sailboat.]


"What is that?" said Lucy, as she came out on the steps. "Oh, it is a
little boat! What a pretty one it is!"

"I will give it to you when it is finished," said John, kindly. "Would you
like to have it?"

"Yes, very much, thank you, John. Has grandma seen it?"

"Not yet; we will take it to her by and by. What have you in your pan,
Lucy?"

"Some corn for my hens, John; they must be very hungry by this time."


LESSON XXXVIII.

mar'ket    bread     bas'ket    bought    meat

tea        try'ing   tell       which


[Illustration: Woman and boy walking on path next to fence.
Woman is carrying a basket.]


James has been to market with his mamma.

She has bought some bread, some meat, and some tea, which are in the
basket on her arm.

James is trying to tell his mamma what he has seen in the market.


LESSON XXXIX.

reads    so      wears    please    could    hair

fast     love    eas'y    gray      chair    who     glass'es


[Illustration: Girl standing by old woman in rocking chair.]


See my dear, old grandma in her easy-chair! How gray her hair is! She
wears glasses when she reads.

She is always kind, and takes such good care of me that I like to do what
she tells me.

When she says, "Robert, will you get me a drink?"  I run as fast as I can
to get it for her. Then she says, "Thank you, my boy."

Would you not love a dear, good grandma, who is so kind? And would you not
do all yon could to please her?


LESSON XL.

does    won'der    moth'er    oth'er    bee    hon'ey    lis'ten    flow'er


[Illustration: Girl standing next to woman seated on porch.]


"Come here, Lucy, and listen! What is in this flower?"

"O mother! it is a bee. I wonder how it came to be shut up in the flower!"

"It went into the flower for some honey, and it may be it went to sleep.
Then the flower shut it in.

"The bee likes honey as well as we do, but it does not like to be shut up
in the flower.

"Shall we let it out, Lucy?"

"Yes; then it can go to other flowers, and get honey."


LESSON XLI.

best    hitched    their    should     or      rid'ing

live    holds      hay      driv'ing   tight   ear'ly


[Illustration: One boy riding a horse, and another boy riding a cart
pulled by a horse.]


Here come Frank and James White. Do you know where they live?

Frank is riding a horse, and James is driving one hitched to a cart. They
are out very early in the day. How happy they are!

See how well Frank rides, and how tight James holds the lines!

The boys should be kind to their horses. It is not best to whip them.

When they have done riding, they will give the horses some hay or corn.


Slate Work

[Illustration: Script Exercise:

Some horses can trot very
fast. Would you like to ride
fast? One day I saw a dog
hitched up a little cart. The
cart had some corn in it.
]


LESSON XLII.

look'ing    thought   pick'ing    heard    chirp    were    told    birds

search     dear'ly    young       girl     loved    chil'dren    be sides'


[Illustration: Girl picking flowers.]


A little girl went in search of flowers for her mother. It was early in
the day, and the grass was wet. We should, indeed, warn him not to call on
us to help him to establish it by scientific arguments; and we
should remind him that he must not make illicit use of his
extra-experiential hypotheses by bringing them into the treatment
of scientific questions that lie within the range of experience.

In science, for example, we make no use of the conception of a "spiritual
substance" (or of a "material substance" either), because we can
get along sufficiently well by dealing solely with qualities.

But with this general understanding we should feel bound to concede the
impregnableness of his main position.

I have supposed this theory only as an illustration, not as a theory which
I am prepared to adopt.

My present purpose is not to treat as an advocate the question of
a future life, but to endeavour to point out what conditions should
be observed in treating the question philosophically.

It seems to me that a great deal is gained when we have distinctly
set before us what are the peculiar conditions of proof in the case
of such transcendental questions.

We have gained a great deal when we have learned how thoroughly
impotent, how truly irrelevant, is physical investigation in the
presence of such a question.

If we get not much positive satisfaction for our unquiet
yearnings, we occupy at any rate a sounder philosophic position
when we recognize the limits within which our conclusions, whether
positive or negative, are valid.

It seems not improbable that Mr.

Mill may have had in mind something like the foregoing considerations
when he suggested that there is no reason why one should not entertain
the belief in a future life if the belief be necessary to one's
spiritual comfort.

Perhaps no suggestion in Mr.

Mill's richly suggestive posthumous work has been more generally
condemned as unphilosophical, on the ground that in matters of
belief we must be guided, not by our likes and dislikes, but by the
evidence that is accessible.

The objection is certainly a sound one so far as it relates to
scientific questions where evidence is accessible.

To hesitate to adopt a well-supported theory because of some vague
preference for a different view is in scientific matters the one
unpardonable sin,--a sin which has been only too often committed.

Even in matters which lie beyond the range of experience, where
evidence is inaccessible, desire is not to be regarded as by itself
an adequate basis for belief.

But it seems to me that Mr.

Mill showed a deeper knowledge of the limitations of scientific
method than his critics, when he thus hinted at the possibility of
entertaining a belief not amenable to scientific tests.

The hypothesis of a purely spiritual unseen world, as above described,
is entirely removed from the jurisdiction of physical inquiry, and
can only be judged on general considerations of what has been called
"moral probability"; and considerations of this sort are likely,
in the future as in the past, to possess different values for
different minds.

He who, on such considerations, entertains a belief in a future
life may not demand that his sceptical neighbour shall be convinced
by the same considerations; but his neighbour is at the same time
estopped from stigmatizing his belief as unphilosophical.

The consideration which must influence most minds in their attitude
toward this question, is the craving, almost universally felt, for
some teleological solution to the problem of existence.

Why we are here now is a question of even profounder interest than
whether we are to live hereafter.

Unfortunately its solution carries us no less completely beyond the
range of experience!

The belief that all things are working together for some good end
is the most essential expression of religious faith: of all
intellectual propositions it is the one most closely related to
that emotional yearning for a higher and better life which is the
sum and substance of religion.

They are in
the basket by his side.

Ben White is driving. He holds the lines in one hand, and his whip in the
other.

Robert has his hat in his hand, and is looking at the horses. He thinks
they are very lazy; they do not trot fast.

The children are not far from home. In a little while the sun will set,
and it will be bedtime.

Have you ever been at the seaside? Is it not good sport to watch the big
waves, and to play on the wet sand?


LESSON XLVIII.

log    qui'et    proud    pulled    fish    stump    riv'er    fa'ther


[Illustration: Father and son fishing from under a tree.]


One evening Frank's father said to him, "Frank, would you like to go with
me to catch some fish?"

"Yes; may I go? and with you, father?"

"Yes, Frank, with me."

"Oh, how glad I am!"

Here they are, on the bank of a river. Frank has just pulled a fine fish
out of the water. How proud he feels!

See what a nice, quiet spot they have found. Frank has the stump of a big
tree for his seat, and his father sits on a log near by. They like the
sport.


LESSON XLIX.

rain     out'side    of'ten    pit'ter       say      win'dow

sound    pat'ter     drops     some'times    on'ly    mu'sic


SLATE WORK

[Illustration: Script Exercise:

I wish, Mamma you would
tell me where the rain comes
from. Does it come from the
sky? And when the little
drops pitter-patter on the window
do you think they are
playing with me? I can not
work or read for I love to listen
to them. I often think their
sound is pretty music. But the
rain keeps children at home
and sometimes I do not like
that, then.
The little raindrops only say,
"Pit, pitter, patter, pat;
While we play on the out-side,
Why can't you play on that?"
]


LESSON L.

sled    throw    win'ter    hurt    ice      cov'er    Hen'ry       next

skate   ground   mer'ry     snow    sister   laugh'ing (laf'ing)    pair


[Illustration: Children skating and playing in the snow.]


I like winter, when snow and ice cover the ground. What fun it is to throw
snowballs, and to skate on the ice!

See the boys and girls! How merry they are! Henry has his sled, and draws
his little sister. There they go!

I think Henry is kind, for his sister is too small to skate.

Look! But a comparative survey of the heavens assures us that Sirius can
hardly have arrived at his present stage of concentration without
detaching, planet-forming rings, for there is no reason for supposing
that mechanical laws out there are at all different from what they
are in our own system.

And the same kind of inference must apply to all the matured stars which we
see in the heavens.

When we duly take all these things into the account, the case of our
solar system will appear as only one of a thousand cases of evolution
and dissolution with which the heavens furnish us.

Other stars, like our sun, have undoubtedly started as vaporous
masses, and have thrown off planets in contracting.

The inference may seem a bold one, but it after all involves no
other assumption than that of the continuity of natural phenomena.

It is not likely, therefore, that the solar system will forever be
left to itself.

Stars which strongly gravitate toward each other, while moving
through a perennially resisting medium, must in time be drawn
together.

The collision of our extinct sun with one of the Pleiades, after this
manner, would very likely suffice to generate even a grander nebula
than the one with which we started.

Possibly the entire galactic system may, in an inconceivably remote future,
remodel itself in this way; and possibly the nebula from which our own
group of planets has been formed may have owed its origin to the
disintegration of systems which had accomplished their career in
the depths of the bygone eternity.

When the problem is extended to these huge dimensions, the prospect
of an ultimate cessation of cosmical work is indefinitely postponed,
but at the same time it becomes impossible for us to deal very
securely with the questions we have raised.

The magnitudes and periods we have introduced are so nearly infinite
as to baffle speculation itself: One point, however, we seem dimly
to discern.

Supposing the stellar universe not to be absolutely infinite in
extent, we may hold that the day of doom, so often postponed, must
come at last.

The concentration of matter and dissipation of energy, so often
checked, must in the end prevail, so that, as the final outcome of
things, the entire universe will be reduced to a single enormous
ball, dead and frozen, solid and black, its potential energy of
motion having been all transformed into heat and radiated away.

They sometimes make little houses of sand, and build walls around them;
and they dig wells with their small wooden spades.

They have been picking up shells for their little sister. She is too young
to come to the beach.

I think all children like to play by the seaside when the sun is bright,
and the wind does not blow too hard.


LESSON LIV.

asked    want'ed    four    Wil'lie's    night     rab'bits

lad      car'ried   cents   tell'ing     fif'ty    mas'ter


[Illustration: Two boys playing with rabbits.]


One day, Willie's father saw a boy at the market with four little white
rabbits in a basket.

He thought these would be nice pets for Willie; so he asked the lad how
much he wanted for his rabbits.

The boy said, "Only fifty cents, sir."

Willie's father bought them, and carried them home.

Here you see the rabbits and their little master. He has a pen for them,
and always shuts them in it at night to keep them safe.

He gives them bread and grass to eat. They like grass, and will take it
from his hand. He has called in a little friend to see them.

Willie is telling him about their funny ways.

SLATE WORK.

[Illustration: Script Exercise:

Some rabbits are as white as
snow, some are black, and others
have white and black spots.
What soft, kind eyes they have.
]


LESSON LV.

bush     cun'ning    place     show    find    bro'ken

o'ver    bring       a'gain (a gen')   fas'ten (fas' n )


[Illustration: Boy and girl looking over a fence in woods.]


"Come here, Rose. Look down into this bush."

"O Willie! a bird's nest! What cunning, little eggs! May we take it, and
show it to mother? "

"What would the old bird do, Rose, if she should come back and not find
her nest?"

"Oh, we would bring it right back, Willie!"

"Yes; but we could not fasten it in its place again. If the wind should
blow it over, the eggs would get broken."


LESSON LVI.

strong    round    dry    bill    worked

sends     claws    flit   God     spring


"How does the bird make the nest so strong, Willie?"

"The mother bird has her bill and her claws to work with, but she would
not know how to make the nest if God did not teach her. Do you see what it
is made of?"

"Yes, Willie, I see some horse-hairs and some dry grass. The old bird must
have worked hard to find all the hairs, and make them into such a pretty,
round nest."

"Shall we take the nest, Rose?"

"Oh no, Willie! We must not take it; but we will come and look at it
again, some time."


SLATE WORK.

[Illustration: Script Exercise:

God made the little birds to sing,
   And flit from tree to tree;
'Tis He who sends them in the spring
   To sing for you and me.
]


LESSON LVII.

The number of elements entering into ancient life were so few
relatively, that there must have been far more than there is now
of that intense realization of life which we can observe in children
and remember of our own childhood.

"Where did it go, Rose?"

"I don't know; away off, somewhere."

"I can guess where, Rose. Don't you know the nest we saw some days ago?
What do you think is in it now?"

"O Willie, I know! Some little brown birds. Let us go and see them."

"All right; but we must not go too near. There! I just saw the old bird
fly out of the bush. Stand here, Rose. Can you see?"

"Why, Willie, what ugly little things! What big mouths they have, and no
feathers!"

"Keep still, Rose. Here comes the old bird with a worm in her bill. How
hard she must work to feed them all!"


LESSON LVIII.

fallin'g    counts    woes       nigh    be gun'   griefs

stars       tear      morn'ing   Lord    each      joys


[Illustration: Script Exercise:

When the stars at set of sun
  Watch you from on high
When the morning has begun
  Think the Lord is nigh.

All you do and all you say,
  He can see and hear:
When you work and when you play,
  Think the Lord is near.

All your joys and griefs He knows
  Counts each falling tear.
When to Him you tell your woes,
  Know the Lord is near.
]


LESSON LIX.

whis'tle (whis'l)    poc'ket   wil'low   note    filled     dead    sick

walk    ev'ery       blew      lane      lame    tak'ing    cane    took


[Illustration: Girl holding doll and boy with cane standing in woods.]


One day, when Mary was taking a walk down the lane, trying to sing her
doll to sleep, she met Frank, with his basket and cane.

Frank was a poor, little, lame boy. His father and mother were dead. His
dear, old grandma took care of him, and tried to make him happy.

Every day, Mary's mother filled Frank's basket with bread and meat, and a
little tea for his grandma.

"How do you do, Frank?" said Mary. The natural terminus of Mr. Motley's
work is the Peace of Westphalia.

After bringing down his history to the time when the independence of
the Netherlands was virtually acknowledged, after describing the
principal stages of the struggle against Catholicism and universal
monarchy, as carried on in the first generation by Elizabeth and
William, and in the second by Maurice and Henry, he will naturally
go on to treat of the epilogue as conducted by Richelieu and Gustavus,
ending in the final cessation of religious wars throughout Europe.

The conflict in the Netherlands was indeed far more than a mere
religious struggle.

In its course was distinctly brought into prominence the fact which
we have above signalized, that since the Roman Church had abandoned
the liberties of the people they had found a new defender in the
reformed religion.

The Dutch rebellion is peculiarly interesting, because it was a
revolt not merely against the Inquisition, but also against the
temporal sovereignty of Philip.

Besides changing their religion, the sturdy Netherlanders saw fit
to throw off the sway of their legitimate ruler, and to proclaim
the thrice heretical doctrine of the sovereignty of the people.

In this one respect their views were decidedly more modern than
those of Elizabeth and Henry IV.

These great monarchs apparently neither understood nor relished the
republican theories of the Hollanders; though it is hardly necessary
for Mr.

Motley to sneer at them quite so often because they were not to an impossible
degree in advance of their age.

The proclamation of a republic in the Netherlands marked of itself the
beginning of a new era,--an era when flourishing communities of
men were no longer to be bought and sold, transferred and bequeathed
like real estate and chattels, but were to have and maintain the
right of choosing with whom and under whom they should transact
their affairs.

The interminable negotiations for a truce, which fill nearly one
third of Mr.

Motley's concluding volume, exhibit with striking distinctness the difference
between the old and new points of view.

Here again we think Mr. Motley errs slightly, in calling too much attention
to the prevaricating diplomacy of the Spanish court, and too little
to its manifest inability to comprehend the demands of the
Netherlanders.

Come now!"

"O mother! we can't, we can't, we can't!" said all the little chickens.

"Yes you can, if you try," said the old hen. "Just flap your wings, as I
did, and you can jump over."

"I am flapping my wings," said Chippy, who stood by himself; "but I can't
jump any better than I could before."


LESSON LXII.

chirped    nev'er     in deed'    slow'ly    re'ally    brood

be gan'    did n't    use         door       bite       piece


[Illustration: Hen with chicks.]


"I never saw such children," said the old hen. "You don't try at all."

"We can't jump so far, mother. Indeed we can't, we can't!" chirped the
little chickens.

"Well," said the old hen, "I must give it up." So she jumped back to the
bank, and walked slowly home with her brood.

"I think mother asked too much of us," said one little chicken to the
others.

"Well, I tried," said Chippy.

"We didn't," said the others; "it was of no use to try."

When they got home, the old hen began to look about for something to eat.
She soon found, near the back door, a piece of bread.

So she called the chickens, and they all ran up to her, each one trying to
get a bite at the piece of bread.

"No, no!" said the old hen. "This bread is for Chippy. He is the only one
of my children that really tried to jump to the stone."


LESSON LXIII.

last    slates    write     waste     neat     taken

clean   learn     read'er   par'ents  sec'ond


[Illustration: Teacher with four students in classroom.]


We have come to the last lesson in this book. We have finished the First
Reader.

You can now read all the lessons in it, and can write them on your slates.

Have you taken good care of your book? Children should always keep their
books neat and clean.

Are you not glad to be ready for a new book?

Your parents are very kind to send you to school. To a certain extent we
must confess that this is the case. In the higher culture--in the culture
of the whole man, according to the antique idea--we are undoubtedly
behind all other nations with which it would be fair to compare
ourselves.

"Miracles" were rather the order of the day, and in fact were
lavished with such extreme bounty on all hands, that their convincing
power was very slight.

Neither side ever thought of
  disputing the reality of the
  miracles supposed to be performed
  on the other; but each side
  considered the miracles of its
  antagonist to be the work of
  diabolic agencies.

Such being the case, it is useless to suppose that Paul could have
distinguished between a true and a false miracle, or that a real
miracle could of itself have had any effect in inducing him to
depart from his habitual course of belief and action.

  As far as Paul's mental operations
  were concerned, it could have
  made no difference whether he met with his future Master in person,
or merely encountered him in a vision.

The sole point to be considered is whether or not he BELIEVED in
the Divine character and authority of the event which had happened.

  What the event might have really
  been was of no practical consequence to him or to any one else.

What he believed it to be was of the first importance.

  And since he did believe that
  he had been divinely summoned
  to cease persecuting, and
  commence preaching the new faith,
  it follows that his state of mind must have been more or less
affected by circumstances other than the mere vision.

Had he not been ripe for change, neither shadow nor substance could
have changed him.

This view of the case is by no
  means so extravagant as Mr.
  Rogers would have us suppose.
  
  t