As we progress we gather into our train Levi, Jacob, David, Moses,
Elias, and the other prophets and patriarchs who belong to our band. We
hasten the steps of the infant Garibaldi, who is devouring refuse fruit
from his mother's store, and stop finally to pluck a small Dennis
Kearney from the coal-hod, where he has been put for safe-keeping. The
day has really begun, and with its first service the hands grow willing
and the heart is filled with sunshine.

As the boys at my side prattle together of the "percession" and the
"sojers" they saw yesterday, I wish longingly that I could be
transported with my tiny hosts to the sunny, quiet country on this
clear, lovely morning.

[Illustration: "THE BOYS AT MY SIDE PRATTLE TOGETHER."]

I think of my own joyous childhood, spent in the sweet companionship of
fishes, brooks, and butterflies, birds, crickets, grasshoppers,
whispering trees and fragrant wild flowers, and the thousand and one
playfellows of Nature which the good God has placed within reach of the
happy country children. There is no good harbour along this coast; and
landing, which has to be done by beach boats, is difficult, especially
in a westerly wind. Nevertheless, considerable supplies were thus
landed, chiefly of fuel and fodder, which would be little liable
to damage by immersion. In the second place, help can be given during
actual military operations by the Navy. Our ships frequently lay off
the coast and bombarded the enemy's positions. Of necessity, each
side had a flank resting on the sea. To the British, this was a feature
of strength; to the Turk, it was one of weakness. He was compelled
therefore at all times to draw back or "refuse" his coastal flank, while
the British flank was constantly thrown forward menacing the flank
of the enemy.

There is little to be said about the Sand Dunes, though, being on
the flank, they were often the scene of operations.

       The sand here is soft and the going bad.

Recourse in these operations was therefore had to camel transport. To
the field engineer, difficulties were presented much as in the desert.
During the trench warfare before Gaza, when a raid was carried out
on Beach Post, no attempt was made to cut the enemy wire with our
artillery, but the wire was simply pulled up by hand with the
standards, for which the soft sand had provided no firm foundations.

The Coastal Plain comprises, towards the north, the Biblical Plain of
Sharon, and, towards the south, the land of Philistia. By this plain,
and not through Judæa, lies the road from the Nile to the
Euphrates.
Along this plain have marched the invading armies of all the ages.
Though generally a flat country, the flatness is relieved by a few
rolling hills, of no great height.

It is very fertile and has a good supply of water, contained in
wells. It thus presents many advantages, and but few disadvantages, to
an army operating in the field.

Roads are good or are easily improvised, while such obstacles to an
invader's advance do not exist here as in the hills. Our successes in the
campaign under consideration were generally attained by first pushing
forward along the plain and then turning right-handed into the
hills.

       
     From the plain, the country
       rises, in places through the intermediate foot hills of the
Shephelah, in places more abruptly and directly into the mountains
of Judæa.

These mountains are of limestone formation, terraced, where possible,
for cultivation, and often wooded with olive trees or tilled as corn
patches or vineyards. The scenery is rugged and pretty, the
hill-sides generally steep, sometimes precipitous. This is the
Palestine of the picture books. Deep gorges have been cut out by
water action; but, as no rain falls throughout the summer months,
these are, for the most part, but dry watercourses."Just a few. Please tell Paulina Strozynski's big brother that he _must_
call for her earlier, and not leave her sitting on the steps so long.
Tell Mrs. Hickok that if she sends us another child whom she knows to be
down with the chicken-pox, we won't take in her two youngest when
they're old enough. Don't give Mrs. Slamberg any aprons. She returned
the little undershirts and drawers that I sent her by Julie, and said
'if it was all the same to me, she'd rather have something that would
make a little more show!' And--oh yes, do see if you can find Jacob
Shubener's hat; he is crying down in the yard, and doesn't dare go home
without it."

"Very well. Four cases. Strozynski--steps--cruelty.
Hickok--chicken-pox--ingratitude. Slamberg--aprons--vanity.
Shubener--hat--carelessness. Oh that I could fasten Jacob's hat to his
ear by a steel chain! Has he looked in the sink?"

"Yes."

"Ash-barrel?"

"Certainly."

"Up in the pepper-tree?"

"Of course."

"Then some one has 'chucked' it into the next yard, and the janitor will
have to climb the fence,--at his age! Oh, if I could eliminate the
irregular verb 'to chuck' from the vocabulary of this school, I could
'make out of the broken sounds of life a song, and out of life itself a
melody,'" and she flew down-stairs like a breeze, to find the patient
Mr. Bowker. Mr. Bowker was a nice little man, who had not all his wits
about him, but whose heart was quite intact, and who swept with energy
and washed windows with assiduity. He belonged to the Salvation Army,
and the most striking articles of his attire, when sweeping, were a
flame-colored flannel shirt and a shiny black hat with "Prepare to Meet
Thy God" on the front in large silver letters. The combination of color
was indescribably pictorial, and as lurid and suggestive as an
old-fashioned Orthodox sermon.

As I went through the lower hall, I found Mr. Bowker assisting Helen to
search the coal-bin. "Don't smile," she cried. "Punch says, 'Sometimes
the least likeliest place is more likelier than the most
likeliest,'--and sure enough, here is the hat! I should have been named
Deborah or Miriam,--not Helen!" and she hurried to dry the tears of the
weeping Jacob.

[Illustration: "HERE IS THE HAT!"]


CHAPTER V.

I SEEK PATSY, AND MEET THE DUCHESS OF ANNA STREET.

     "'Tis pride, rank pride and haughtiness of soul."


I make my way through the streets, drinking in the glorious air,
breathing the perfume of the countless fruit stands and the fragrances
that floated out from the open doors of the little flower stores in
every block, till I left all that was pleasant behind me and turned into
Anna Street.

I soon found Number 32, a dirty, tumble-down, one-story hovel, the
blinds tied together with selvedges of red flannel, and a rickety bell
that gave a certain style to the door, though it had long ceased to
ring.

A knock brought a black-haired, beetle-browed person to the window.

"Does Mrs. Kennett live here?"

"No, she don't. I live here."

"Oh! then you are not Mrs. Kennett?"

"Wall, I ruther guess _not_!" This in a tone of such royal superiority
and disdain that I saw in an instant I had mistaken blue blood for red.

"I must have been misinformed, then. This is Number 32?"

"Can't yer see it on the door?"

"Yes," meekly. "I thought perhaps Anna Street had been numbered over."

"What made yer think Mis' Kennett lived here?"

"A little girl brought me her name written on a card,--Mrs. Kennett, 32
Anna Street."

"There!" triumphantly, "I might 'a knowed that woman 'd play some common
trick like that! Now do you want ter know where Mis' Kennett re'ly doos
live? Wall, _she lives in the rear_! Her number's 32-1/2, 'n I vow she
gits more credit o' livin' in the front house 'n I do, 'n I pay four
dollars more rent! Ever see her? I thought not! I guess 'f you hed you
wouldn't think of her livin' in a house like this!"

"Excuse me. I didn't expect to make any trouble"--

"Oh, I've nothin' agin _you_, but just let me ketch her puttin' on airs
'n pertendin' to live like her betters, that's all! She's done it
before, but I couldn't never ketch her at it. The idee of her keepin' up
a house like this!" and with a superb sniff like that of a battle-horse,
she disappeared from the front window of her ancestral mansion and
sought one at the back which might command a view of my meeting with her
rival.

I slid meekly through a side gate, every picket of which was decorated
with a small child, stumbled up a dark narrow passage, and found myself
in a square sort of court out of which rose the rear houses so
objectionable to my Duchess in the front row.

Beyond Sheikh Abbas our defences consisted of a series of redoubts, our
right flank being to some extent in the air. Here, however, was a waterless
desert, so difficult to cross that this flank could be sufficiently
protected by cavalry patrols.

Considering that there was a war on, campaigning life on this front was
by no means uncomfortable. Those who had seen service in France
bemoaned the lack of comforts and amusements behind the line,
and the absence of home leave, those who had come from Salonica
were congratulating themselves on the exchange; while those of us
who had been in Mesopotamia during the bad times of 1916, considered
ourselves in the lap of luxury.

Rations were good and plentiful and canteen well stocked.
The Turkish rations, on the other hand, were scanty and poor, with the
result that morale was low, discomfort rife, and desertions frequent. On
one occasion, when the enemy were making a raid upon our trenches,
a couple of Turks got into an empty bag where one of our men had
left his pack.

The manner in which they pursued their advantage was by helping
themselves to his tin of bully beef and getting away with all speed.

A Turkish officer, who was subsequently taken prisoner, said, "If the
Turkish rations had been as good as yours, you would never have
captured Gaza."

The health of our troops, on the whole, was good.

In so far as there was sickness it consisted of a certain amount
of dysentery, almost unavoidable in an army in the Field, septic
sores, which are unusually rife, and a slight epidemic of sandfly
fever.

Foremost among the inconveniences to be tolerated were the flies, which
made it difficult for the men to sleep by day, the time when they most
need rest after manning the trenches all night. Next to the flies came
the dust.

The country, in which for the time we were making our home, consisted
of arable ground devoid of crops, and thoroughly cut up by the passing
of transport. A breeze, that blew daily without fail, served to raise
a fine impalpable dust that permeated everything.
He takes it
awful hard about that there story, 'm. I told him as how you'd be after
tellin' another one next week, but it seems nothin' will comfort him."

"Ev'rybuddy's allers lyin' to me," he moaned; "there warn't another dog
picture like that in the hull room!"

"Don't take no notice of him, 'm, an' he'll git over it; he's subjick to
these spells of takin' on like. Set up, Pat, an' act decent! Thus, the
52nd Lowland Division had at least one Highland Battalion, the
53rd Welsh had more battalions from England than from Wales, and
the 54th East Anglian contained one battalion from London and one
from the South of England.

Kennett is willing, I have some things that will fit you; you shall come
right back with me now,--all the children have gone,--and you and I will
be alone with the sunshine and the birds and the fishes, as we were the
other day, and I will tell you the dog story just as I told it to the
other children this morning."

