This eBook was produced by David Widger  [widger@cecomet.net]


                            OCCASIONAL POEMS

                                   BY

                         JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER


                            

CONTENTS:

     EVA
     A LAY OF OLD TIME
     A SONG OF HARVEST
     KENOZA LAKE
     FOR AN AUTUMN FESTIVAL
     THE QUAKER ALUMNI
     OUR RIVER
     REVISITED
     "THE LAURELS"
     JUNE ON THE MERRIMAC
     HYMN FOR THE OPENING OF THOMAS STARR KING'S HOUSE OF WORSHIP
     HYMN FOR THE HOUSE OF WORSHIP AT GEORGETOWN, ERECTED IN MEMORY
          OF A MOTHER
     A SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATION
     CHICAGO
     KINSMAN
     THE GOLDEN WEDDING OF LONGWOOD
     HYMN FOR THE OPENING OF PLYMOUTH CHURCH, ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA
     LEXINGTON
     THE LIBRARY
     "I WAS A STRANGER, AND YE TOOK ME IN"
     CENTENNIAL HYMN
     AT SCHOOL-CLOSE
     HYMN OF THE CHILDREN
     THE LANDMARKS
     GARDEN
     A GREETING
     GODSPEED
     WINTER ROSES
     THE REUNION
     NORUMBEGA HALL
     THE BARTHOLDI STATUE
     ONE OF THE SIGNERS


EVA

     Suggested by Mrs. Stowe's tale of Uncle Tom's Cabin, and written
     when the characters in the tale were realities by the fireside of
     countless American homes.

Dry the tears for holy Eva,
With the blessed angels leave her;
Of the form so soft and fair
Give to earth the tender care.

For the golden locks of Eva
Let the sunny south-land give her
Flowery pillow of repose,
Orange-bloom and budding rose.

In the better home of Eva
Let the shining ones receive her,
With the welcome-voiced psalm,
Harp of gold and waving palm,

All is light and peace with Eva;
There the darkness cometh never;
Tears are wiped, and fetters fall.
And the Lord is all in all.

Weep no more for happy Eva,
Wrong and sin no more shall grieve her;
Care and pain and weariness
Lost in love so measureless.

Gentle Eva, loving Eva,
Child confessor, true believer,
Listener at the Master's knee,
"Suffer such to come to me."

Oh, for faith like thine, sweet Eva,
Lighting all the solemn river,
And the blessings of the poor
Wafting to the heavenly shore!
1852


A LAY OF OLD TIME.

     Written for the Essex County Agricultural Fair, and sung at the
     banquet at Newburyport, October 2, 1856.

One morning of the first sad Fall,
Poor Adam and his bride
Sat in the shade of Eden's wall--
But on the outer side.

and "Thank you, Bub!" whipped on the
small horse and rode to the
door of the designated house, from
which even the thick Hostel father in his green apron entgegentrat
him.

The fact that the newcomers to the
guild is not legitimate
part of the house guests, I had indeed
made clear, but it tended to - what happened to me now, if I
remember it, with the reputation of wohlehrsamen craft will be no
rhyme - also give me much more pleasant people einzukehren.

Up there on the second floor, where
even today, instead of the
simple wooden box hatches on the
streets, was the traditional quarters of all mobile musicians, or
Acrobat tamers, which in our city's art was the best.

And right when I am next morning the
top in my room before the
window stood, and my school bag
schnürte was over there has set off one of the hatches, the little
man with the black hair spears stuck his head into the open and
spread with both arms in the fresh air out, then turned his head
behind after the dark back room, and I heard him "Lisei!

Lisei!" call .-- Since pressed under
his arm a rosy Gesichtlein
prior to actually looks like a black
mane hair herabfiel.

The father pointed a finger over after
me, they laughed and plucking
a few strands of her silken. What
he said to her, I can not understand, but it may well have been
about.

"Look at him, Lisei! Know it yet,
the Bubner yesterday
- the poor fool, since he must now
coincide with the knapsack to school trot!

- What you need for a happy Diendl
are, you just allweg
with our Landaben brown, another, need
to go!

"- at least saw the little girl very
compassionate to me over and
when I dared her zuzunicken friendly,
she nodded very seriously again.

Soon the father but moved his head
back and disappeared in
background of its ground space.
Instead of his now joined the big blonde woman to the child, she
took hold of her head and her hair began to Straehle.

The business seemed to be silently
executed and the Lisei was
apparently not mucksen, although
it repeatedly if her comb in the neck hinabfuhr the angular figures
with their red Mäulchen formed.

Only once lifted her arm and had a long hair on the lime in the
morning outside air also fly.

     I could from my window to see it shine, because the sun was just
     through the autumn fog pushed over and seemed on the upper part
of the hostel building.

Even in the previously impenetrable
dark floor room I could see it now.
Quite clearly I saw in a dim angle of
the man sitting at a table in his hand, flashing a bit like gold
or silver, then it's like a face with an enormous nose, but my eyes
sosehr effort, I could not make head or tail of it are .

Suddenly, I heard as if something
in a Wooden box would be thrown, and
now the man stood up and
leaned out of a second hatch is back on the street.

The woman, however, had the little black
prostitute verschossenes a red
dress on and her Braiding hair like
a wreath to put the round head.

I was still over. "Once I thought,"
but she could nod again ."--" Paul,
Paul! " I heard a sudden the bottom
of our home voice call my mother.

"Yes, yes, mother!" It was neat to
me as a terror in the limbs beaten.
"Well," she cried again, "the master
calculator will give you beautiful translation of the time !

Knowest thou not that it is round seven has
beaten? "How quickly I rumbled down
the stairs, but I was lucky, the master
computing grad was in the process of its bergamot weight, and half
the school was in his garden, with hands and mouths to help him.

Only nine clock we all sat down
with hot cheeks and funny faces at
table book and calculator on our
benches.

As I at eleven, the bags of pears
still staring from the school came,
came the big town crier the road up. He suggested
the key to his sheer brass basin and cried with his beer voice:
"The Puppeteer Mechanikus and Mr Joseph Tendler from the residential
city of Munich has arrived here yesterday and will be tonight in
Schützenhofsaale give his first presentation.

Presented is: Palatine Siegfried and the holy Genoveva, puppetry
with singing in four lifts.

     "Then he räusperte gracefully and gradually my home in the
     opposite direction. I followed him from street to street, again
     and again to the Annunciation delightful to hear, because I never
     had a comedy, let alone a puppet seen.
     And when the summer day grows dim,
And light mists walk thy mimic sea,
Revive in us the thought of Him
Who walked on Galilee!


FOR AN AUTUMN FESTIVAL

The Persian's flowery gifts, the shrine
Of fruitful Ceres, charm no more;
The woven wreaths of oak and pine
Are dust along the Isthmian shore.

But beauty hath its homage still,
And nature holds us still in debt;
And woman's grace and household skill,
And manhood's toil, are honored yet.

And we, to-day, amidst our flowers
And fruits, have come to own again
The blessings of the summer hours,
The early and the latter rain;

To see our Father's hand once more
Reverse for us the plenteous horn
Of autumn, filled and running o'er
With fruit, and flower, and golden corn!

Once more the liberal year laughs out
O'er richer stores than gems or gold;
Once more with harvest-song and shout
Is Nature's bloodless triumph told.

Our common mother rests and sings,
Like Ruth, among her garnered sheaves;
Her lap is full of goodly things,
Her brow is bright with autumn leaves.

Oh, favors every year made new!
Oh, gifts with rain and sunshine sent
The bounty overruns our due,
The fulness shames our discontent.

We shut our eyes, the flowers bloom on;
We murmur, but the corn-ears fill,
We choose the shadow, but the sun
That casts it shines behind us still.

God gives us with our rugged soil
The power to make it Eden-fair,
And richer fruits to crown our toil
Than summer-wedded islands bear.

Who murmurs at his lot to-day?
Who scorns his native fruit and bloom?
Or sighs for dainties far away,
Beside the bounteous board of home?

Thank Heaven, instead, that Freedom's arm
Can change a rocky soil to gold,--
That brave and generous lives can warm
A clime with northern ices cold.

And let these altars, wreathed with flowers
And piled with fruits, awake again
Thanksgivings for the golden hours,
The early and the latter rain!
1859


THE QUAKER ALUMNI.

     Read at the Friends' School Anniversary, Providence, R. I.,
     6th mo., 1860.

From the well-springs of Hudson, the sea-cliffs of Maine,
Grave men, sober matrons, you gather again;
And, with hearts warmer grown as your heads grow more cool,
Play over the old game of going to school.

All your strifes and vexations, your whims and complaints,
(You were not saints yourselves, if the children of saints!)
All your petty self-seekings and rivalries done,
Round the dear Alma Mater your hearts beat as one!

How widely soe'er you have strayed from the fold,
Though your "thee" has grown "you," and your drab blue and gold,
To the old friendly speech and the garb's sober form,
Like the heart of Argyle to the tartan, you warm.

But, the first greetings over, you glance round the hall;
Your hearts call the roll, but they answer not all
Through the turf green above them the dead cannot hear;
Name by name, in the silence, falls sad as a tear!

In love, let us trust, they were summoned so soon
rom the morning of life, while we toil through its noon;
They were frail like ourselves, they had needs like our own,
And they rest as we rest in God's mercy alone.

Unchanged by our changes of spirit and frame,
Past, now, and henceforward the Lord is the same;
Though we sink in the darkness, His arms break our fall,
And in death as in life, He is Father of all!

We are older: our footsteps, so light in the play
Of the far-away school-time, move slower to-day;--
Here a beard touched with frost, there a bald, shining crown,
And beneath the cap's border gray mingles with brown.

But faith should be cheerful, and trust should be glad,
And our follies and sins, not our years, make us sad.
Should the heart closer shut as the bonnet grows prim,
And the face grow in length as the hat grows in brim?

Life is brief, duty grave; but, with rain-folded wings,
Of yesterday's sunshine the grateful heart sings;
And we, of all others, have reason to pay
The tribute of thanks, and rejoice on our way;

For the counsels that turned from the follies of youth;
For the beauty of patience, the whiteness of truth;
For the wounds of rebuke, when love tempered its edge;
For the household's restraint, and the discipline's hedge;

For the lessons of kindness vouchsafed to the least
Of the creatures of God, whether human or beast,
Bringing hope to the poor, lending strength to the frail,
In the lanes of the city, the slave-hut, and jail;

For a womanhood higher and holier, by all
Her knowledge of good, than was Eve ere her fall,--
Whose task-work of duty moves lightly as play,
Serene as the moonlight and warm as the day;

And, yet more, for the faith which embraces the whole,
Of the creeds of the ages the life and the soul,
Wherein letter and spirit the same channel run,
And man has not severed what God has made one!

For a sense of the Goodness revealed everywhere,
As sunshine impartial, and free as the air;
For a trust in humanity, Heathen or Jew,
And a hope for all darkness the Light shineth through.

Who scoffs at our birthright?--the words of the seers,
And the songs of the bards in the twilight of years,
All the foregleams of wisdom in santon and sage,
In prophet and priest, are our true heritage.

The Word which the reason of Plato discerned;
The truth, as whose symbol the Mithra-fire burned;
The soul of the world which the Stoic but guessed,
In the Light Universal the Quaker confessed!

No honors of war to our worthies belong;
Their plain stem of life never flowered into song;
But the fountains they opened still gush by the way,
And the world for their healing is better to-day.

He who lies where the minster's groined arches curve down
To the tomb-crowded transept of England's renown,
The glorious essayist, by genius enthroned,
Whose pen as a sceptre the Muses all owned,--

Who through the world's pantheon walked in his pride,
Setting new statues up, thrusting old ones aside,
And in fiction the pencils of history dipped,
To gild o'er or blacken each saint in his crypt,--

How vainly he labored to sully with blame
The white bust of Penn, in the niche of his fame!
Self-will is self-wounding, perversity blind
On himself fell the stain for the Quaker designed!

For the sake of his true-hearted father before him;
For the sake of the dear Quaker mother that bore him;
For the sake of his gifts, and the works that outlive him,
And his brave words for freedom, we freely forgive him!

There are those who take note that our numbers are small,--
New Gibbons who write our decline and our fall;
But the Lord of the seed-field takes care of His own,
And the world shall yet reap what our sowers have sown.

The last of the sect to his fathers may go,
Leaving only his coat for some Barnum to show;
But the truth will outlive him, and broaden with years,
Till the false dies away, and the wrong disappears.

Nothing fails of its end. Out of sight sinks the stone,
In the deep sea of time, but the circles sweep on,
Till the low-rippled murmurs along the shores run,
And the dark and dead waters leap glad in the sun.

Meanwhile shall we learn, in our ease, to forget
To the martyrs of Truth and of Freedom our debt?--
Hide their words out of sight, like the garb that they wore,
And for Barclay's Apology offer one more?

Shall we fawn round the priestcraft that glutted the shears,
And festooned the stocks with our grandfathers' ears?
Talk of Woolman's unsoundness? count Penn heterodox?
And take Cotton Mather in place of George Fox?

Make our preachers war-chaplains? quote Scripture to take
The hunted slave back, for Onesimus' sake?
Paulsen had manifold skills and was recognized not
only by efficiency in its own craft, but he also had an insight
into the future development of the trades at all, so that for some,
what is now proclaimed as a new truth is, I suddenly stopped: it
has your old Paulsen already forty years ago said. - It was me soon,
to buy his affection, and he looked like, if I do, except the fixed
hours in the evening once came to him.

Then we sat in either the workshop or summer - because
our traffic has lasted for years - on the bench
under the great linden garden. The talks, which we are
led, or rather, what my old friend with me leading, I learned
things, and know my thoughts on things directed, of which, however
important they are in life, I even later in my school books Primaner
have found no trace.

Paulsen had its origin after a frieze and the
character of this tribe to the most
pronounced in his face, under the simple-minded blond
hair, the forehead and the sensible blue eyes, taking had inherited
from the father, his voice still a bit of the soft singing of his
native language.

The wife of the Nordic man was brown and soft
Gliederbau, their language of southern Germany
unmistakable sound. My mother used to say
of her, her black eyes could burn a lake, but in her youth she had
been of rare grace .-- Despite the silver Fädchen who have crossed
her hair, was the loveliness of these traits have not disappeared
and the youth innate feeling for beauty led me soon, its where I
always was, with small favors and services to the hand to go.

"Since I only watch the Buberl," she said then,
might be her husband, "Will but nit be jealous,
Paul? "Then smiled Paul. And from their words and
jokes from his smile spoke intimate awareness Compiled hearing.

They had, except one son, who was then in the
stranger had no children, and perhaps I was
the two part so welcome, especially since Ms.
Paulsen repeatedly assured me that I have such a degree as their
Lustigs Naserl Joseph.

I will not deny that the latter also to me very
much, in our city but otherwise completely
unknown to prepare desserts understood nor failed me
then and when a guest to ask.

I, who never sat down with the boys and the girls
At the feet of your Slocums, and Cartlands, and Earles,--
By courtesy only permitted to lay
On your festival's altar my poor gift, to-day,--

I would joy in your joy: let me have a friend's part
In the warmth of your welcome of hand and of heart,--
On your play-ground of boyhood unbend the brow's care,
And shift the old burdens our shoulders must bear.

Long live the good School! giving out year by year
Recruits to true manhood and womanhood dear
Brave boys, modest maidens, in beauty sent forth,
The living epistles and proof of its worth!

In and out let the young life as steadily flow
As in broad Narragansett the tides come and go;
And its sons and its daughters in prairie and town
Remember its honor, and guard its renown.

Not vainly the gift of its founder was made;
Not prayerless the stones of its corner were laid
The blessing of Him whom in secret they sought
Has owned the good work which the fathers have wrought.

To Him be the glory forever! We bear
To the Lord of the Harvest our wheat with the tare.
What we lack in our work may He find in our will,
And winnow in mercy our good from the ill!


OUR RIVER.

FOR A SUMMER FESTIVAL AT "THE LAURELS" ON THE MERRIMAC.

     Jean Pierre Brissot, the famous leader of the Girondist party in
     the French Revolution, when a young man travelled extensively in
     the United States. He visited the valley of the Merrimac, and
     speaks in terms of admiration of the view from Moulton's hill
     opposite Amesbury. The "Laurel Party" so called, as composed of
     ladies and gentlemen in the lower valley of the Merrimac, and
     invited friends and guests in other sections of the country. Its
     thoroughly enjoyable annual festivals were held in the early summer
     on the pine-shaded, laurel-blossomed slopes of the Newbury side of
     the river opposite Pleasant Valley in Amesbury. The several poems
     called out by these gatherings are here printed in sequence.

Once more on yonder laurelled height
The summer flowers have budded;
Once more with summer's golden light
The vales of home are flooded;
And once more, by the grace of Him
Of every good the Giver,
We sing upon its wooded rim
The praises of our river,

Its pines above, its waves below,
The west-wind down it blowing,
As fair as when the young Brissot
Beheld it seaward flowing,--
And bore its memory o'er the deep,
To soothe a martyr's sadness,
And fresco, hi his troubled sleep,
His prison-walls with gladness.

Wicked child, Do not you see that mine
is the air we breathe, the
sun, flowers and Undos river? Arrogant
... my voice, creative,
water emerged Aquesta Islands, which
lit the Northern Islands, which
looks was a time, and while, true
to my holy worship, raise their preces My altars are open a thousand
times of death, hunger and horror. rebosaban Fields Of fragrant
vegetables; Without pious work springs from the earth, then pure,
the yellow crops, wandering through the meadow painted kid, the
deer and the lighter fat cattle; The His diligent bee hive produced
meekly, and the man gave tasty honey: Withdrawal in the crow nest,
no painful predicted Clatterer odious; then enjoyed the rich soil
of an age so blessed, that in its delights is equaled to heaven And
now, without consolation, sad moans in the hands of strangers, And
Dies In lentamenta the impious hands of Spain!

But I rid, if you want to bend my
knees before his worship,
that shining bright. abura so
powerful that I will give you
the same, if I love, the yearning;
More Woe to you, if you distrust
blind! LEON .-- If so powerful
you, if your hands are the ventures of mortals, why have you been
fatal to the Christians?

And if, as you say, the sea, And the
brave aquilon submissive obey your
voice and your power, why
their caravels delicate, now
you mock, were not flooded and
buried beneath the waves?
Why your stars have guided them in
dark night, And the winds their sails And not pushed them threw
your Centellas?

Are you so perhaps omnipotent?
Y for more misery, yet the
name of Mary, the name that delights
unhappy mind, what arrogant
insult, He came to destroy all
traces of your worship! SATAN!
.-- Traces of my worship!
¡Unhappy!

Do not you know that keeps a people
that loves me prostrations?
Oh! ... Coming in the future evils
which reserves for your race,
a religion that acclaiming impure: sad
calamity, plague, war and cruel
invasion of various nations to come next in
ages!

Your people irrigate with blood and tears
from the field homeland thirsty
sand; Already in the pleasant prairie
bird who hurt burning metal.
Neither your forests, nor rivers, nor the
valley, or the source will
be men and respect for the hatred
that disturbed your peace and prosperity, while I, for revenge,
Desataré the indomitable winds that in his career, with wrath and
fierce anger, riot various elements, and the weakness dugout, sunk
into the water, increasing their horrible suffering.

Devastaré my viciously The green
fields of the harvest
ópima and from the high mountain top
of the upright cast fiery
river of lava, that enveloped in
smoke and flame devorante
populations Asolo What furious
torrent which, when
scattered, Boots shrubs scores, and the ground frozen, shocked to
my voice tremble with terrible shaking , and each movement's rich
soil bitter, and life.

Shatter in sunshine over thy ledges,
Laugh in thy plunges from fall to fall;
Play with thy fringes of elms, and darken
Under the shade of the mountain wall.

The cradle-song of thy hillside fountains
Here in thy glory and strength repeat;
Give us a taste of thy upland music,
Show us the dance of thy silver feet.

Into thy dutiful life of uses
Pour the music and weave the flowers;
With the song of birds and bloom of meadows
Lighten and gladden thy heart and ours.

Sing on! bring down, O lowland river,
The joy of the hills to the waiting sea;
The wealth of the vales, the pomp of mountains,
The breath of the woodlands, bear with thee.

Here, in the calm of thy seaward, valley,
Mirth and labor shall hold their truce;
Dance of water and mill of grinding,
Both are beauty and both are use.

Type of the Northland's strength and glory,
Pride and hope of our home and race,--
Freedom lending to rugged labor
Tints of beauty and lines of grace.

Once again, O beautiful river,
Hear our greetings and take our thanks;
Hither we come, as Eastern pilgrims
Throng to the Jordan's sacred banks.

For though by the Master's feet untrodden,
Though never His word has stilled thy waves,
Well for us may thy shores be holy,
With Christian altars and saintly graves.

And well may we own thy hint and token
Of fairer valleys and streams than these,
Where the rivers of God are full of water,
And full of sap are His healing trees!


"THE LAURELS"

At the twentieth and last anniversary.

FROM these wild rocks I look to-day
O'er leagues of dancing waves, and see
The far, low coast-line stretch away
To where our river meets the sea.

The light wind blowing off the land
Is burdened with old voices; through
Shut eyes I see how lip and hand
The greeting of old days renew.

O friends whose hearts still keep their prime,
Whose bright example warms and cheers,
Ye teach us how to smile at Time,
And set to music all his years!

I thank you for sweet summer days,
For pleasant memories lingering long,
For joyful meetings, fond delays,
And ties of friendship woven strong.

As for the last time, side by side,
You tread the paths familiar grown,
I reach across the severing tide,
And blend my farewells with your own.

Make room, O river of our home!
For other feet in place of ours,
And in the summers yet to come,
Make glad another Feast of Flowers!

Hold in thy mirror, calm and deep,
The pleasant pictures thou hast seen;
Forget thy lovers not, but keep
Our memory like thy laurels green.
ISLES of SHOALS, 7th mo., 1870.


JUNE ON THE MERRIMAC.

O dwellers in the stately towns,
What come ye out to see?
This common earth, this common sky,
This water flowing free?

As gayly as these kalmia flowers
Your door-yard blossoms spring;
As sweetly as these wild-wood birds
Your caged minstrels sing.

You find but common bloom and green,
The rippling river's rune,
The beauty which is everywhere
Beneath the skies of June;

The Hawkswood oaks, the storm-torn plumes
Of old pine-forest kings,
Beneath whose century-woven shade
Deer Island's mistress sings.

And here are pictured Artichoke,
And Curson's bowery mill;
And Pleasant Valley smiles between
The river and the hill.

You know full well these banks of bloom,
The upland's wavy line,
And how the sunshine tips with fire
The needles of the pine.

Yet, like some old remembered psalm,
Or sweet, familiar face,
Not less because of commonness
You love the day and place.

And not in vain in this soft air
Shall hard-strung nerves relax,
Not all in vain the o'erworn brain
Forego its daily tax.

The lust of power, the greed of gain
Have all the year their own;
The haunting demons well may let
Our one bright day alone.

Unheeded let the newsboy call,
Aside the ledger lay
The world will keep its treadmill step
Though we fall out to-day.

The truants of life's weary school,
Without excuse from thrift
We change for once the gains of toil
For God's unpurchased gift.

From ceiled rooms, from silent books,
From crowded car and town,
Dear Mother Earth, upon thy lap,
We lay our tired heads down.

Cool, summer wind, our heated brows;
Blue river, through the green
Of clustering pines, refresh the eyes
Which all too much have seen.

For us these pleasant woodland ways
Are thronged with memories old,
Have felt the grasp of friendly hands
And heard love's story told.

A sacred presence overbroods
The earth whereon we meet;
These winding forest-paths are trod
By more than mortal feet.

Old friends called from us by the voice
Which they alone could hear,
From mystery to mystery,
From life to life, draw near.

(One of them carried flowers, flags
and other toys and children's
own.) CORO. Roses, carnations,
Pasig entertaining, galas with Luce thousand; Divina Aurora, His
beautiful sky seen kind of light, Her eyes are divine, Rosicler on
his forehead.

Her lips are burning chest glitter: In
you, sweet beauty.
The mind is sure, in you, The
rich venture will happy soul.

(RECITE) CÁNDIDO. - How beautiful
is the morning! Aurora
Goes with their dawn
caressing the flowers with which the grass is decked.

The Pasig! ¿Hear the whispering of
the reeds in your bank? Hear
the bird and the soft lullaby
changed?

Tell me: so much beauty, both
ornamental and galanura,
with magical beauty Nature holds,
and this current quiet Do seats slide, Do not you love?

Did not he spells his eloquent language?
Do not you glad I told her
that because the pious Virgin, Living
With pompous flaunting aquest days?

ALL. - Undoubtedly! PASCUAL. -
Such joy there is in the
village; Such is the pleasure it
inspires, all dancing with joy.

Llenas encounter everywhere The streets
of colorful gear, children
and old. Everyone come out to see.
NIÑO I º - Hablas, Pascual, very real ones And we think!

Because people Anda impatient
hanging pennants and
flags. 2nd CHILD - Here I
bring a basket of flowers to offer to the Virgin ...

CHILD 1 - Ole! Let's see! Simple
... It is a gift ... (_Lo Look
desprecio_.) I have a cage at
home Do Moran painted birds whose trills are so soft that they
give, if it passes. 3rd CHILD - Pajaritos!

What folly! I got bombs, rockets
... (_Con Jactancia_.) CHILD
1 - Get there! Those are just toys
that instill pavura! ...

CHILD 3 - You have fear! CHILD 1 - Me?
It was not long after the opening of the house of worship built for
     him that he died.

Amidst these glorious works of Thine,
The solemn minarets of the pine,
And awful Shasta's icy shrine,--

Where swell Thy hymns from wave and gale,
And organ-thunders never fail,
Behind the cataract's silver veil,

Our puny walls to Thee we raise,
Our poor reed-music sounds Thy praise:
Forgive, O Lord, our childish ways!

For, kneeling on these altar-stairs,
We urge Thee not with selfish prayers,
Nor murmur at our daily cares.

Before Thee, in an evil day,
Our country's bleeding heart we lay,
And dare not ask Thy hand to stay;

But, through the war-cloud, pray to Thee
For union, but a union free,
With peace that comes of purity!

That Thou wilt bare Thy arm to, save
And, smiting through this Red Sea wave,
Make broad a pathway for the slave!

For us, confessing all our need,
We trust nor rite nor word nor deed,
Nor yet the broken staff of creed.

Assured alone that Thou art good
To each, as to the multitude,
Eternal Love and Fatherhood,--

Weak, sinful, blind, to Thee we kneel,
Stretch dumbly forth our hands, and feel
Our weakness is our strong appeal.

So, by these Western gates of Even
We wait to see with Thy forgiven
The opening Golden Gate of Heaven!

Suffice it now. In time to be
Shall holier altars rise to Thee,--
Thy Church our broad humanity

White flowers of love its walls shall climb,
Soft bells of peace shall ring its chime,
Its days shall all be holy time.

A sweeter song shall then be heard,--
The music of the world's accord
Confessing Christ, the Inward Word!

That song shall swell from shore to shore,
One hope, one faith, one love, restore
The seamless robe that Jesus wore.


Edited by FILIPINO DAY. 1915.

Printing and bookbinding workshops, prints
and objects fotograbados and store regular annual desktop illustrated
FILIPINO DAY.

     Sacristia Street No. º 954, Santa Cruz, Manila, IF
     Forgive the weakness and the pride,
If marred thereby our gift may be,
For love, at least, has sanctified
The altar that we rear to thee.

The heart and not the hand has wrought
From sunken base to tower above
The image of a tender thought,
The memory of a deathless love!

And though should never sound of speech
Or organ echo from its wall,
Its stones would pious lessons teach,
Its shade in benedictions fall.

Here should the dove of peace be found,
And blessings and not curses given;
Nor strife profane, nor hatred wound,
The mingled loves of earth and heaven.

Thou, who didst soothe with dying breath
The dear one watching by Thy cross,
Forgetful of the pains of death
In sorrow for her mighty loss,

In memory of that tender claim,
O Mother-born, the offering take,
And make it worthy of Thy name,
And bless it for a mother's sake!
And then his squint - that was so seductive that the moment the
entire audience's eyes in his head was twisted.

I was quite fond of the dear fellow!

Finally the game was over, and I sat back at home
in our living room and eaten in silence the Aufgebratene, my good
mother had asked me warm.

My father sat in the chair and
smoked his evening pipe.
"Well, boy," cried he, "they were
alive?"

"I do not know, father," I said, and
worked more in my bowl, I was
still quite confused the senses.
He looked at me for a while with his wise smile .

"Listen, Paul," he said, "you can
not too often in these dolls
box, the things you could at the end
of the school run."

"Great grace, as saith Sir Thomas More,
To him must needs be given
Who heareth heresy and leaves
The heretic to Heaven!

"I hear again the snuffled tones,
I see in dreary vision
Dyspeptic dreamers, spiritual bores,
And prophets with a mission.

"Each zealot thrust before my eyes
His Scripture-garbled label;
All creeds were shouted in my ears
As with the tongues of Babel.

"Scourged at one cart-tail, each denied
The hope of every other;
Each martyr shook his branded fist
At the conscience of his brother!

"How cleft the dreary drone of man.
The shriller pipe of woman,
As Gorton led his saints elect,
Who held all things in common!

PEOPLE CÁNDIDO LEON PASCUAL SATAN ANGEL CHILD
1 CHILD 2 CHILD 3 Choir and
children's choir hell. = = =
Beside the Pasig Melodrama in one act AND VERSO = (The action takes
place on the banks of the Pasig River in the village this name, the
decor is the river and the shore opposite to it are the characters.

You see the church, houses, reedbeds
and a multitude of flags and ornaments
peculiar to the peoples of the
archipelago.

This is the hour of dawn and, Consequently,
the tone of the whole must be
played softly.)
"And last, not least, the Quakers came,
With tongues still sore from burning,
The Bay State's dust from off their feet
Before my threshold spurning;

"A motley host, the Lord's debris,
Faith's odds and ends together;
Well might I shrink from guests with lungs
Tough as their breeches leather

"If, when the hangman at their heels
Came, rope in hand to catch them,
I took the hunted outcasts in,
I never sent to fetch them.

"I fed, but spared them not a whit;
I gave to all who walked in,
Not clams and succotash alone,
But stronger meat of doctrine.

"I proved the prophets false, I pricked
The bubble of perfection,
And clapped upon their inner light
The snuffers of election.

"And looking backward on my times,
This credit I am taking;
I kept each sectary's dish apart,
No spiritual chowder making.

Where, therefore, for thou comest? ""
I - I go walking, Lisei! -
But tell me, because it plays comedy
now? "She laughed and shook his head."

But what are you doing here? "I asked
further by the Steinhof I
came to her.
"Well! He who fashioned Peter's dream
To bless them all is able;
And bird and beast and creeping thing
Make clean upon His table!

"I walked by my own light; but when
The ways of faith divided,
Was I to force unwilling feet
To tread the path that I did?

