Transcribed from the 1899 New Century Press edition by David Price, email
ccx074@pglaf.org


PICKWICKIAN STUDIES


BY
PERCY FITZGERALD, M.A., F.S.A.
AUTHOR OF "_The History of Pickwick_," "_Pickwickian Manners and
Customs_,"
"_Bozland_," _&c._

London:
THE NEW CENTURY PRESS, LIMITED
434 STRAND, W.C
1899


CHAPTER I.  IPSWICH


I.--The Great White Horse


This ancient Inn is associated with some pleasant and diverting
Pickwickian memories.  We think of the adventure with "the lady in the
yellow curl papers" and the double-bedded room, just as we would recall
some "side splitting" farce in which Buckstone or Toole once made our
jaws ache.  As all the world knows, the "Great White Horse" is found in
the good old town of Ipswich, still flourishes, and is scarcely altered
from the days when Mr. Pickwick put up there.  Had it not been thus
associated, Ipswich would have remained a place obscure and scarcely
known, for it has little to attract save one curious old house and some
old churches; and for the theatrical antiquary, the remnant of the old
theatre in Tacket Street, where Garrick first appeared as an amateur
under the name of Lyddal, about a hundred and sixty years ago, and where
now the Salvation Army "performs" in his stead. {1}  The touch of "Boz"
kindled the old bones into life, it peopled the narrow, winding streets
with the Grummers, Nupkins, Jingles, Pickwick and his followers; with the
immortal lady aforesaid in her yellow curl papers, to say nothing of Mr.
Peter Magnus.  From afar off even, we look at Ipswich with a singular
interest; some of us go down there to enjoy the peculiar feeling--and it
_is_ a peculiar and piquant one--of staying at Mr. Pickwick's Inn--of
sleeping even in his room.  This relish, however, is only given to your
true "follower," not to his German-metal counterfeit--though, strange to
say, at this moment, Pickwick is chiefly "made in Germany," and comes to
us from that country in highly-coloured almanacks--and pictures of all
kinds.  About Ipswich there is a very appropriate old-fashioned tone, and
much of the proper country town air.  The streets seem dingy enough--the
hay waggon is encountered often.  The "Great White Horse," which is at
the corner of several streets, is a low, longish building--with a rather
seedy air.  But to read "Boz's" description of it, we see at once that he
was somewhat overpowered by its grandeur and immense size--which, to us
in these days of huge hotels, seems odd.  It was no doubt a large posting
house of many small chambers--and when crowded, as "Boz" saw it at
Election time in 1835, swarming with committeemen, agents, and voters,
must have impressed more than it would now.  The Ball-room at "The Bull,"
in Rochester, affected him in much the same way; and there is a curious
sensation in looking round us there, on its modest proportions--its
little hutch of a gallery which would hold about half-a-dozen musicans,
and the small contracted space at the top where the "swells" of the
dockyard stood together.  "Boz," as he himself once told me, took away
from Rochester the idea that its old, red brick Guildhall was one of the
most imposing edifices in Europe, and described his astonishment on his
return at seeing how small it was.

Apropos of Rochester and the Pickwick feeling, it may be said that to
pass that place by on the London, Chatham, and Dover line rouses the most
curious sensation.  Above is the Castle, seen a long time before, with
the glistening river at its feet; then one skirts the town passing by the
backs of the very old-fashioned houses, and you can recognise those of
the Guildhall and of the Watts' Charity, and the gilt vanes of other
quaint, old buildings; you see a glimpse of the road rising and falling,
with its pathways raised on each side, with all sorts of faded
tints--mellow, subdued reds, sombre greys, a patch of green here and
there, and all more or less dingy, and "quite out of fashion."  There is
a rather forlorn tone over it all, especially when we have a glimpse of
Ordnance Terrace, at Chatham, that abandoned, dilapidated row where the
boy Dickens was brought up dismally enough.  At that moment the images of
the Pickwickians recur as of persons who had lived and had come down
there on this pleasant adventure.  And how well we know every stone and
corner of the place, and the tone of the place!  We might have lived
there ourselves.  Positively, as we walk through it, we seem to recognise
localities like old friends.

"Boz," when he came to Ipswich, was no more than a humble reporter, on
special duty, living in a homely way enough.  The "White Horse" was not
likely to put itself out for him, and he criticises it in his story,
after a fashion that seems rather bold.  His description is certainly
unflattering:

   "In the main street, on the left-hand side of the way"--observe how
   minute Boz is in his topography--"a short distance after you have
   passed through the open space fronting the Town Hall, stands an Inn
   known far and wide by the appellation of 'The Great White Horse,'
   rendered the more conspicuous by a stone statue of some rampacious
   animal, with flowing mane and tail, distantly resembling an insane
   cart horse, which is elevated above the principal door.  The 'Great
   White Horse' is famous in the neighbourhood in the same degree as a
   prize ox or county paper-chronicled turnip, or unwieldy pig--for its
   _enormous size_.  Never were there such labyrinths of _uncarpeted
   passages_, such clusters of _mouldy_, _badly-lighted rooms_, such huge
   numbers of small dens for eating or sleeping in, beneath any other
   roof, as are collected between the four walls of this overgrown
   Tavern."

Boz cannot give the accommodation a good word, for he calls the
Pickwickian room "a large, badly furnished apartment, with _a dirty
grate_ in which a small fire was making a wretched attempt to be
cheerful, but was fast sinking beneath the dispiriting influence of the
place."  The dinner, too, seems to have been as bad, for a _bit of fish_
and a steak took one hour to get ready, with "_a bottle of the worst
possible port_, _at the highest possible price_."  Depreciation of a
hostelry could not be more damaging.  Again, Mr. Pickwick's bedroom is
described as a sort of surprise, being "a more comfortable-looking
apartment that his short experience of the accommodation of the Great
White House had led him to expect."

Now this was bad enough, but his sketch of the waiter who received the
arriving party is worse:

   "A corpulent man, with a fortnight's napkin under his arm and coeval
   stockings."

There is something so hostile in all this that it certainly must have
come from a sense of bad reception.  As we said, the young reporter was
likely enough to have been treated with haughty contempt by the corpulent
waiter so admirably described, with his "coeval stockings."

Even the poor horse is not spared, "Rampacious" he is styled; the stone
animal that still stands over the porch.  It must be said that the steed
in question is a very mild animal indeed, and far from ramping, is
trotting placidly along.  "Rampacious," however, scarcely seems
correct--"Rampagious" is the proper form--particularly as "Boz" uses the
words "On the rampage."  We find ourselves ever looking at the animal
with interest--as he effects his trot, one leg bent.  The porch, and
horse above it, have a sort of sacred character.  I confess when I saw it
for the first time I looked at it with an almost absurd reverence and
curiosity.  The thing is so much in keeping, one would expect to see the
coach laden with Pickwickians drive up.

Mr. Pickwick's adventure, his losing his way in the passages, &c., might
occur to anyone.  It is an odd feeling, the staying at this old hostelry,
and, as it draws on towards midnight, seeking your room, through endless
windings, turns, and short flights.  There is even now to be seen the
niche where Mr. Pickwick sat down for the night; so minute are the
directions we can trace the various rooms.  Mr. Pickwick asked for a
private room and was taken down a "long dark passage."  It turned out
later that Miss Witherfield's sitting-room was actually next door, so Mr.
Magnus had not far to go.  These rooms were on the ground floor, so Mr.
Pickwick had to "descend" from his bedroom.

There is a tradition indeed that Mr. Pickwick's adventure with a lady
really occurred to "Boz" himself, who had lost his way in the mazes of
the passages.  I have a theory that his uncomfortable night in the
passages, and the possible displeasure of the authorities, may have
jaundiced his views.


II.--Eatanswill and Ipswich


It is not "generally known" that Ipswich is introduced twice in the book:
as Eatanswill, as well asunder its own proper name.  As "Boz" was dealing
with the corrupt practices at Elections, and severely ridiculing them, he
was naturally afraid of being made responsible.  Further, he had been
despatched by the proprietors of the _Chronicle_ to report the speeches
at the election, and he did not care to take advantage of his mission for
literary purposes.  The father of the late Mr. Alfred Morrison, the well-
known, amiable virtuoso, was one of the candidates for Ipswich at the
election in 1835, and he used to tell how young "Boz" was introduced into
one of the rooms at the "Great White Horse," where the head-quarters of
the candidate was.  Sir Fitzroy Kelly was the other candidate, a name
that seems pointed at in Fizkin.

This high and mighty point of the locality of Eatanswill has given rise
to much discussion, and there are those who urge the claims of other
towns, such as Yarmouth and Norwich.  It has been ingeniously urged that,
in his examination before Nupkins, Mr. Pickwick stated that he was a
perfect stranger in the town, and had no knowledge of any householders
there who could be bail for him.  Now if Eatanswill were Ipswich, he must
have known many--the Pott family for instance--and he had resided there
for some time.  But the author did not intend that the reader should
believe that the two places were the same, and wished them to be
considered different towns, though _he_ considered them as one.  It has
been urged, too, that Ipswich is not on the direct road to Norwich as
stated by the author; but on consulting an old road book (Mogg's) I find
that it is one of the important stages on the coach line.

But what is conclusive is the question of distance.  On hurrying away so
abruptly from Mrs. Leo Hunter's, Mr. Pickwick was told by that lady that
the adventurer was at Bury St. Edmunds, "_not many miles from here_,"
that is a short way off.  Now Bury is no more than about four-and-twenty
miles from Ipswich, a matter of about four hours' coach travelling.  Great
Yarmouth is fully seventy by roundabout roads, which could not be
described as being "a short way from here."  It would have taken eight or
nine hours--a day's journey.  Mr. Pickwick left Eatanswill about one or
two, for the lunch was going on, and got to Bury in time for dinner,
which, had he left Yarmouth, would have taken him to the small hours of
the morning.

No one was such a thorough "Pressman" as was "Boz," or threw himself with
such ardour into his profession.  To his zeal and knowledge in this
respect we have the warmest testimonies.  When he was at Ipswich for the
election, he, beyond doubt, entered with zest and enjoyment into all the
humours.  No one could have written so minute and hearty an account
without having been "behind the scenes" and in the confidence of one or
other of the parties.  And no wonder, for he represented one of the most
important of the London "dailies."

The fact is, Ipswich was a sort of a tempestuous borough, the scene of
many a desperate conflict in which one individual, Mr. Fitzroy
Kelly--later Chief Baron--made the most persevering efforts, again and
again renewed, to secure his footing.  Thus, in December, 1832, there was
a fierce struggle with other candidates, Messrs. Morrison, Dundas, and
Rigby Wason, in which he was worsted--for the moment.  But, in January,
1835, when he stood again, he was successful.  This must have been the
one in Pickwick, when the excesses there described may have taken place.
There were four candidates: one of whom, Mr. Dundas--no doubt depicted as
the Honourable Mr. Slumkey--being of the noble family of Zetland.  We
find that the successful candidate was unseated on petition, and his
place taken by another candidate.  In 1837, he stood once more, and was
defeated by a very narrow majority.  On a scrutiny, he was restored to
Parliament.  Finally, in 1847, he lost the seat and gave up this very
uncertain borough.  Now all this shows what forces were at work, and
that, with such determined candidates, electoral purity was not likely to
stand in the way.  All which makes for Ipswich.

It must be said, however, that a fair case can be made for Norwich.  In
introducing Eatanswill, Boz says that "an anxious desire to abstain from
giving offence" prompted Mr. Pickwick, _i.e._, Boz, to conceal the real
name of the place.  He adds that he travelled by the Norwich coach, "but
this entry (in Mr. Pickwick's notes) was afterwards lined through as if
for the purpose of concealing even the direction."  Some might think that
this was a veiled indication, but it seems too broad and obvious a
method, that is, by crossing out a name to reveal the name.  It is much
more likely he meant that the town was somewhere between Norwich and
London, and on that line.  There are arguments, too, from the distances.
There are two journeys in the book from Eatanswill to Bury, which seem to
furnish data for both theories--the Ipswich and the Norwich ones.  But if
we have to take the _dejeuner_ in its literal sense, and put it early in
the day, say, at eleven, and Mr. Pickwick's arrival at Bury, "wery late,"
as Sam had it, we have some six hours, or, say, forty miles, covered by
the journey.  But the events at Mrs. Leo Hunter's were certainly at mid-
day--between one and three o'clock.  It was, in fact, a grand lunch.  So
with Winkle's journey.  He left Eatanswill half-an-hour after breakfast,
and must have travelled by the same coach as Mr. Pickwick had done, and
reached Bury just in time for dinner, or in six or seven hours.  Now it
will not be said that he would not be a whole day going four-and-twenty
miles.

A fair answer to these pleas might be that Boz was not too scrupulous as
to times or distances when he was contriving incidents or events; and
numberless specimens could be given of his inaccuracies.  Here, "panting
time toiled after him in vain."  It was enough to talk of breakfast and
dinner without accurately computing the space between.  But a close
admeasurement of the distance will disprove the Norwich theory.  Bury was
twenty-four miles from Ipswich, and Ipswich forty miles from Norwich--a
total of seventy-four miles, to accomplish which would have taken ten,
eleven or twelve hours, to say nothing of the chance of missing the
"correspondance" with the Northern Norwich coach.  Then again, Boz is
careful to state that Eatanswill was "one of the smaller towns."  In this
class we would not place Norwich, a large Cathedral City, with its
innumerable churches, and population, even then, of over 60,000, whereas
Ipswich was certainly one of these "smaller towns," having only 20,000.
It must be also considered, too, that this was a cross road, when the
pace would be slower than on the great main lines, say, at five miles an
hour, which, with stoppages, &c., would occupy a period for the twenty-
four miles of some four hours, that is, say, from two to six o'clock.
Boz, by his arrangement of the traffic, would seem to assume that a
conveyance could be secured at any time of the day, for Mr. Pickwick
conveniently found one the instant he so abruptly quitted Mrs. Leo
Hunter's, while Winkle and his friends just as conveniently found one
immediately after breakfast.  He appears to have been seven hours on the
road.  But the strong point on which all Ipswichians may rest secure is
Mr. Pickwick's statement to Mrs. Leo Hunter that Bury was "not many miles
from here."

But an even more convincing proof can be found in Jingle's relation to
Eatanswill.  He came over from Bury to Mrs. Leo Hunter's party, leaving
his servant there, at the Hotel, and returned the same evening.  The
place must have been but a short way off, when he could go and return in
the same day.  Then what brought him to Eatanswill?  We are told that at
the time he was courting Miss Nupkins, the Mayor's daughter; of course,
he rushed over in the hope of meeting her at Mrs. Leo Hunter's
_dejeuner_.  Everything, therefore, fits well together.

I thought of consulting the report of the House of Commons Committee on
the Election Petition, and this confirmed my view.  There great stress is
laid on the Blue and Buff colours: in both the report and the novel it is
mentioned that the constables' staves were painted Blue.  Boz makes Bob
Sawyer say, in answer to Potts' horrified enquiry "Not Buff, sir?"  "Well
I'm a kind of plaid at present--mixed colours"--something very like this
he must have noticed in the Report.  A constable, asked was his comrade,
one Seagrave, Buff, answered, "_well_, _half and half_, _I believe_."  In
the Report, voters were captured and put to bed at the White Horse; and
Sam tells how he "pumped over" a number of voters at the same house.  The
very waiter, who received Mr. Pickwick so contemptuously, was examined by
the Committee--his name was Henry Cowey--and he answered exactly like the
waiter with the "fortnight's napkin and the coeval stockings."  When
asked "was not so-and-so's appearance that of an intoxicated person?" the
language seemed too much for him, rather, he took it to himself: "If I
_had_ been intoxicated, I could not have done my business."  This is
quite in character.

Boz calls the inn at Eatanswill, "The Town Arms."  There was no such sign
in all England at the time, as the Road Book shows.  Why then would he
call the White Horse by that name?  The Town Arms of Ipswich have two
white _Sea Horses_ as supporters.  This had certainly something to do
with the matter.

Mr. Pott was surely a real personage: for "Boz," who presently did not
scruple to "takeoff" a living Yorkshire schoolmaster in a fashion that
all his neighbours and friends recognised the original, would not draw
back in the case of an editor.  Indeed, it is plain that in all points
Pott is truly an admirable figure, perfect in every point of view, and
finished.  In fact, Pott and Pell, in their way, are the two best pieces
of work in the book.  How admirable is the description; "a tall, thin man
with a sandy-coloured head, inclined to baldness, and a face in which
solemn importance was blended with a look of unfathomable profundity.  He
was dressed in a long, brown surtout, with a black cloth waistcoat and
drab trousers.  A double eye-glass dangled at his waistcoat, and on his
head he wore a very low-crowned hat with a broad rim."  Every touch is
delightful--although all is literal the literalness is all humour.  As
when Pott, to recreate his guest, Mr. Pickwick, told Jane to "go down
into the office and bring me up the file of the Gazette for 1828.  I'll
read you just a few of the leaders I wrote at that time upon the Buff job
of appointing a new tollman to the turnpike here.  I rather think they'll
amuse you."  This was rich enough, and he came back to the same topic
towards the end of the book.

It will be remembered Mr. Pott went to Mrs. Leo Hunter's _Fete_ in the
character of a Russian with a knout in his hand.  No doubt the Gazette
had its "eye on Russia" and like the famous _Skibbereen Eagle_ had
solemnly warned the Autocrat to that effect.  It is, by the way, amusing
to find that this organ, _The Eagle_ to wit, which so increased the
gaiety of the nation, has once more been warning the Autocrat, and in a
vein that proves that "our filthy contemporary," _The Eatanswill
Gazette_, was no exaggerated picture.  This is how _The Eagle_, in a late
issue, speaks of the Russian occupation of Port Arthur:--"And once again
that keen, fierce glance is cast in the direction of the grasping
Muscovite; again, one of the foulest, one of the vilest dynasties that
has impiously trampled on the laws of God, and has violated every
progressive aspiration the Almighty implanted in the human heart when He
fashioned man in His own image, and breathed into his soul the breath of
life, threatens, for the moment at least, to put back the hands of the
clock that tells the progress of civilisation.  The Emperor of all the
Russias, this wicked enemy of the human race, has succeeded in raising
his hideous flag on Port Arthur, and planting his iron heel and cloven
hoof on the heathen Chinese--filthy, degenerate creatures, who, it must
be admitted, are fitting companions for the tallow-eating, 'knouting'
barbarian."


III.--Nupkins and Magnus.


Who was intended by Nupkins, the intolerable Mayor of Ipswich?  An odious
being.  We may wonder at "Boz's" courage, for, of course, the existing
Mayor of Ipswich might think that the satire was pointed at _him_.  There
can be little doubt, however, that Nupkins was drawn from a London Police
Magistrate, and is, in fact, another portrait of the functionary whom he
sketched specially for "Oliver Twist" under the name of Mr. Fang.
Nupkins, however, is more in the comedy vein--ridiculed rather than
gibbeted--than was Mr. Fang.  We have only to compare the touches in both
descriptions:

   "I beg your pardon for interrupting you," said Mr. Pickwick, "but
   before you proceed to act upon any opinion you may have formed, I must
   claim my right to be heard."

   "Hold your tongue," said the magistrate, peremptorily.

   "I must submit to you, sir--" said Mr. Pickwick.

   "Hold your tongue, or I shall order an officer to remove you."

   "You may order your officers to do whatever you please, sir," said Mr.
   Pickwick.

Compare with this "Oliver Twist":

   "Who are you?" said Mr. Fang.

   "Before I am sworn, I must beg to say one word, and that is I really
   never, without actual experience, could have believed--"

   "Hold your tongue, sir," said Mr. Fang, peremptorily.

   "I will not, sir."

   "Hold your tongue this instant, or I'll have you turned out of the
   office."

Mr. Pickwick, it will be remembered, made a communication to Mr. Nupkins
which changed the whole state of affairs.  Mr. Nupkins, with all his
insolent despotism, was held in check by conference with his clerk,
Jinks, who kept him from making mistakes by judicious hints.

Fang's clerk, like Mr. Jinks, interposed:

   "How do you propose to deal with the case, sir?" inquired the clerk,
   in a low voice.

   Mr. Jinks pulled him by the sleeve and whispered something.  He was
   evidently remonstrating.  At length the magistrate, gulping down with
   a very bad grace his disinclination to hear anything more, said
   sharply, "What do you want to say?"

When Mr. Fang was about to commit Oliver, the Bookstall-keeper rushed in,
and insisted on being heard, and, like Mr. Nupkins, Mr. Fang had to
listen:

   "I demand to be sworn," said the man, "I will not be put down."

   "Swear the man," growled Mr. Fang, with a very ill grace.  "Now, what
   have you got to say?"

Again, Mr. Nupkins said of Sam:

   "He is evidently a desperate ruffian."

   "He is my servant, sir," said Mr. Pickwick, angrily.

   "Oh, he is your servant, is he.  A conspiracy to defeat the ends of
   justice."

Compare Fang and the Bookseller:

   "That book, is it paid for?  No, it is not."

   "Dear me, I forgot all about it," exclaimed the old gentleman.

   "A nice person to prepare a charge against a poor boy," said Fang;
   "the law will overtake you yet, &c."

and so on.

8. I said that under these laws of inanition, the craving of the human
heart for some kind of excitement could be supplied from _one_ source
only. It might have been thought by any other than a sternly tentative
philosopher, that the denial of their natural food to human feelings would
have provoked a reactionary desire for it; and that the dreariness of
the street would have been gilded by dreams of pastoral felicity.
Experience has shown the fact to be otherwise; the thoroughly trained
Londoner can enjoy no other excitement than that to which he has been
accustomed, but asks for _that_ in continually more ardent or more
virulent concentration; and the ultimate power of fiction to entertain
him is by varying to his fancy the modes, and defining for his
dullness the horrors, of Death.

In the single novel of "Bleak House" there are nine deaths (or left for
death's, in the drop scene) carefully wrought out or led up to, either
by way of pleasing surprise, as the baby's at the brick-maker's, or
finished in their threatenings and sufferings, with as much enjoyment
as can be contrived in the anticipation, and as much pathology as can be
concentrated in the description. Under the following varieties
of method:--

One by assassination Mr. Tulkinghorn.
One by starvation, with phthisis Joe.
One by chagrin Richard.
One by spontaneous combustion Mr. Krook.
One by sorrow Lady Dedlock's lover.
One by remorse Lady Dedlock.
One by insanity Miss Flite.
One by paralysis Sir Leicester.

Besides the baby, by fever, and a lively young Frenchwoman left to
be hanged.

And all this, observe, not in a tragic, adventurous, or military story,
but merely as the further enlivenment of a narrative intended to be
amusing; and as a properly representative average of the statistics
of civilian mortality in the center of London.

9. Observe further, and chiefly. It is not the mere number of deaths
(which, if we count the odd troopers in the last scene, is exceeded in
"Old Mortality," and reached, within one or two, both in "Waverley" and
"Guy Mannering") that marks the peculiar tone of the modern
novel. It is the fact that all these deaths, but one, are of inoffensive,
or at least in the world's estimate, respectable persons; and that they
are all grotesquely either violent or miserable, purporting thus to
illustrate the modern theology that the appointed destiny of a
large average of our population is to die like rats in a drain,
either by trap or poison.

Not, indeed, that a lawyer in full practice can be usually supposed as
faultless in the eye of Heaven as a dove or a woodcock; but it is not, in
former divinities, thought the will of Providence that he should be dropped
by a shot from a client behind his fire-screen, and retrieved in the
morning by his housemaid under the chandelier. Neither is Lady Dedlock
less reprehensible in her conduct than many women of fashion have been
and will be: but it would not therefore have been thought poetically just,
in old-fashioned morality, that she should be found by her daughter lying
dead, with her face in the mud of a St. Giles's churchyard.

10.

In the work of the great masters death is always either heroic,
deserved, or quiet and natural (unless their purpose be totally and
deeply tragic, when collateral meaner death is permitted, like that
of Polonius or Roderigo).

In "Old Mortality," four of the deaths, Bothwell's, Ensign Grahame's,
Macbriar's, and Evandale's, are magnificently heroic; Burley's and
Oliphant's long deserved, and swift; the troopers', met in the discharge
of their military duty, and the old miser's as gentle as the passing of
a cloud, and almost beautiful in its last words of--now unselfish--care.

* * * * *
"Ailie" (he aye ca'd me Ailie, we were auld acquaintance), "Ailie,
take ye care and hand the gear weel thegither; for the name of Morton of
Milnwood's gane out like the last sough of an auld sang." And sae he
fell out o' ae dwam into another, and ne'er spak a word mair, unless
it something we you'dna mak out, about a dipped candle being gude eneugh
to see to dee wi'. He cou'd ne'er bide to see a molded ane, and there
was ane, by ill luck, on the table.

* * * * *
In "Guy Mannering," the murder, though unpremeditated, of a single person,
(himself not entirely innocent, but at least by heartlessness in a cruel
function earning his fate,) is avenged to the uttermost on all
the men conscious of the crime; Mr. Bertram's death, like that of his
wife, brief in pain, and each told in the space of half a dozen lines; and
that of the heroine of the tale, self-devoted, heroic in the highest,
and happy.

Nor is it ever to be forgotten, in the comparison of Scott's with inferior
work, that his own splendid powers were, even in early life, tainted, and
in his latter years destroyed, by modern conditions of commercial excitement,
then first, but rapidly, developing themselves.
There are parts even in his best novels colored to meet tastes which
he despised; and many pages written in his later ones to lengthen
his article for the indiscriminate market.

11.

But there was one weakness of which his healthy mind remained incapable
to the last. In modern stories prepared for more refined or fastidious
audiences than those of Dickens, the funereal excitement is obtained,
for the most part, not by the infliction of violent or disgusting death;
but in the suspense, the pathos, and the more or less by all felt,
and recognized, mortal phenomena of the sick-room.

   The temptation, to weak writers, of this order of subject is especially
   great, because the study of it from the living--or dying--model is
   so easy, and to many has been the most impressive part of their own
   personal experience; while, if the description be given even with
mediocre accuracy, a very large section of readers will admire its
truth, and cherish its melancholy.

Few authors of second or third rate genius can either record or invent a
probable conversation in ordinary life; but few, on the other hand,
are so destitute of observant faculty as to be unable to chronicle the
broken syllables and languid movements of an invalid. The easily rendered,
and too surely recognized, image of familiar suffering is felt at once to
be real where all else had been false; and the historian of the gestures
of fever and words of delirium can count on the applause of a gratified
audience as surely as the dramatist who introduces on the stage of
his flagging action a carriage that can be driven or a fountain that
will flow.

But the masters of strong imagination disdain such work, and those
of deep sensibility shrink from it.[39] Only under conditions of
personal weakness, presently to be noted, would Scott comply with the
cravings of his lower audience in scenes of terror like the death of
Front-de-Boeuf. But he never once withdrew the sacred curtain of the
sick-chamber, nor permitted the disgrace of wanton tears round the
humiliation of strength, or the wreck of beauty.

12. IV. No exception to this law of reverence will be found in the scenes
in Coeur de Lion's illness introductory to the principal incident in the
"Talisman."

An inferior writer would have made the king charge in imagination at the
head of his chivalry, or wander in dreams by the brooks of Aquitaine;
but Scott allows us to learn no more startling symptoms of the king's
malady than that he was restless and impatient, and could not wear his
armor. Nor is any bodily weakness, or crisis of danger, permitted to
disturb for an instant the royalty of intelligence and heart in which he
examines, trusts and obeys the physician whom his attendants fear.

Yet the choice of the main subject in this story and its companion--the
trial, to a point of utter torture, of knightly faith, and several passages
in the conduct of both, more especially the exaggerated scenes in the
House of Baldringham, and hermitage of Engedi, are signs of the
gradual decline in force of intellect and soul which those who love
Scott best have done him the worst injustice in their endeavors to
disguise or deny.

The mean anxieties, moral humiliations, and mercilessly demanded
brain-toil, which killed him, show their sepulchral grasp for many and
many a year before their final victory; and the states of more or less
dulled, distorted, and polluted imagination which culminate in "Castle
Dangerous" cast a Stygian hue over "St. Ronan's Well," "The Fair Maid
of Perth," and "Anne of Geierstein," which lowers them, the first altogether,
the other two at frequent intervals, into fellowship with the normal
disease which festers throughout the whole body of our lower fictitious
literature.

13. Fictitious! I use the ambiguous word deliberately; for it is impossible
to distinguish in these tales of the prison-house how far their vice and
gloom are thrown into their manufacture only to meet a vile demand, and
how far they are an integral condition of thought in the minds of men
trained from their youth up in the knowledge of Londinian and Parisian
misery.

The speciality of the plague is a delight in the exposition of the
relations between guilt and decrepitude; and I call the results of
it literature "of the prison-house," because the thwarted habits of body
and mind, which are the punishment of reckless crowding in cities,
become, in the issue of that punishment, frightful subjects of exclusive
interest to themselves; and the art of fiction in which they finally
delight is only the more studied arrangement and illustration, by
colored fire-lights, of the daily bulletins of their own wretchedness,
in the prison calendar, the police news, and the hospital report.

14. The reader will perhaps be surprised at my separating the greatest
work of Dickens, "Oliver Twist," with honor, from the loathsome mass to
which it typically belongs. That book is an earnest and uncaricatured
record of states of criminal life, written with didactic purpose, full
of the gravest instruction, nor destitute of pathetic studies of
noble passion.

Even the "Mysteries of Paris" and Gaboriau's "Crime d'Orcival" are raised,
by their definiteness of historical intention and forewarning anxiety,
far above the level of their order, and may be accepted as photographic
evidence of an otherwise incredible civilization, corrupted in the infernal
fact of it, down to the genesis of such figures as the Vicomte
d'Orcival, the Stabber,[40] the Skeleton, and the She-wolf. But the
effectual head of the whole cretinous school is the renowned novel
in which the hunchbacked lover watches the execution of his mistress
from the tower of Notre-Dame; and its strength passes gradually away into
the anatomical preparations, for the general market, of novels like "Poor
Miss Finch," in which the heroine is blind, the hero epileptic, and
the obnoxious brother is found dead with his hands dropped off, in the
Arctic regions.[41]

15. This literature of the Prison-house, understanding by the word not
only the cell of Newgate, but also and even more definitely the cell
of the Hôtel-Dieu, the Hôpital des Fous, and the grated corridor with the
dripping slabs of the Morgue, having its central root thus in the Ile de
Paris--or historically and pre-eminently the "Cité de Paris"--is, when
understood deeply, the precise counter-corruption of the religion of
the Sainte Chapelle, just as the worst forms of bodily and mental ruin
are the corruption of love.

I have therefore called it "Fiction mécroyante," with literal accuracy
and precision: according to the explanation of the word, which the reader
may find in any good French dictionary,[42] and round its Arctic pole in
the Morgue, he may gather into one Caina of gelid putrescence the entire
product of modern infidel imagination, amusing itself with destruction
of the body, and busying itself with aberration of the mind.

16. Aberration, palsy, or plague, observe, as distinguished from normal
evil, just as the venom of rabies or cholera differs from that of a
wasp or a viper. The life of the insect and serpent deserves, or at least
permits, our thoughts; not so the stages of agony in the fury-driven
hound. There is some excuse, indeed, for the pathologic labor of the modern
novelist in the fact that he cannot easily, in a city population, find
a healthy mind to vivisect: but the greater part of such amateur surgery
is the struggle, in an epoch of wild literary competition, to obtain
novelty of material. The varieties of aspect and color in healthy fruit,
be it sweet or sour, may be within certain limits described exhaustively.
Not so the blotches of its conceivable blight: and while the symmetries
of integral human character can only be traced by harmonious and
tender skill, like the branches of a living tree, the faults and
gaps of one gnawed away by corroding accident can be shuffled into
senseless change like the wards of a Chubb lock.

17.

V. It is needless to insist on the vast field for this dice-cast or
card-dealt calamity which opens itself in the ignorance, money-interest,
and mean passion, of city marriage. Peasants know each other as children--meet,
as they grow up in testing labor; and if a stout farmer's son
marries a handless girl, it is his own fault. Also in the patrician families
of the field, the young people know what they are doing, and marry a
neighboring estate, or a covetable title, with some conception of the
responsibilities they undertake. But even among these, their season
in the confused metropolis creates licentious and fortuitous temptation
before unknown; and in the lower middle orders, an entirely new kingdom
of discomfort and disgrace has been preached to them in the doctrines
of unbridled pleasure which are merely an apology for their peculiar
forms of ill-breeding. It is quite curious how often the catastrophe,
or the leading interest, of a modern novel, turns upon the want, both in
maid and bachelor, of the common self-command which was taught to their
grandmothers and grandfathers as the first element of ordinarily decent
behavior. Rashly inquiring the other day the plot of a modern story[43]
from a female friend, I elicited, after some hesitation, that it hinged
mainly on the young people's "forgetting themselves in a boat;" and I
perceive it to be accepted as nearly an axiom in the code of modern
civic chivalry that the strength of amiable sentiment is proved by
our incapacity on proper occasions to express, and on improper ones to
control it. The pride of a gentleman of the old school used to be in
his power of saying what he meant, and being silent when he ought
(not to speak of the higher nobleness which bestowed love where it
was honorable, and reverence where it was due); but the automatic
amours and involuntary proposals of recent romance acknowledge
little further law of morality than the instinct of an insect, or
the effervescence of a chemical mixture.

18.

There is a pretty little story of Alfred de Musset's--"La Mouche," which,
if the reader cares to glance at it, will save me further trouble
in explaining the disciplinarian authority of mere old-fashioned
politeness, as in some sort protective of higher things. It describes,
with much grace and precision, a state of society by no means
pre-eminently virtuous, or enthusiastically heroic; in which many
people do extremely wrong, and none sublimely right.

But as there are heights of which the achievement is unattempted,
there are abysses to which fall is barred; neither accident nor
temptation will make any of the principal personages swerve from
an adopted resolution, or violate an accepted principle of honor;
people are expected as a matter of course to speak with propriety
on occasion, and to wait with patience when they are bid: those who
do wrong, admit it; those who do right don't boast of it; everybody
knows his own mind, and everybody has good manners.

19.

Nor must it be forgotten that in the worst days of the self-indulgence
which destroyed the aristocracies of Europe, their vices, however licentious,
were never, in the fatal modern sense, "unprincipled." The vainest believed
in virtue; the vilest respected it.
"Chaque chose avait son nom,"[44] and the severest of English moralists
recognizes the accurate wit, the lofty intellect, and the unfretted
benevolence, which redeemed from vitiated surroundings the circle of
d'Alembert and Marmontel.[45]
I have said, with too slight praise, that the vainest, in those days,
"believed" in virtue. Beautiful and heroic examples of it were always
before them; nor was it without the secret significance attaching to
what may seem the least accidents in the work of a master, that Scott gave
to both his heroines of the age of revolution in England the name of
the queen of the highest order of English chivalry.[46]
20. It is to say little for the types of youth and maid which alone Scott
felt it a joy to imagine, or thought it honorable to portray, that
they act and feel in a sphere where they are never for an instant
liable to any of the weaknesses which disturb the calm, or shake
the resolution, of chastity and courage in a modern novel.

   Scott lived in a country and time, when, from highest
   to lowest, but chiefly in that dignified and nobly severe[47]
   middle
   class to which he himself belonged, a habit of serene and stainless
thought was as natural to the people as their mountain air.

   Women like Rose Bradwardine and Ailie Dinmont were the grace and guard
   of almost every household (God be praised that the race of them is
   not yet extinct, for all that Mall or Boulevard can do), and it has
   perhaps escaped the notice of even attentive readers that the
comparatively uninteresting character of Sir Walter's heroes had
always been studied among a class of youths who were simply incapable
of doing anything seriously wrong; and could only be embarrassed
by the consequences of their levity or imprudence.

21.

   But there is another difference in the woof of a Waverley novel
from the cobweb of a modern one, which depends on Scott's larger
view of human life.

   Marriage is by no means, in his conception of man and woman, the most
   important business of their existence;[48] nor love the only reward
to be proposed to their virtue or exertion.

It is not in his reading of the laws of Providence a necessity that
virtue should, either by love or any other external blessing, be
rewarded at all;[49] and marriage is in all cases thought of as a
constituent of the happiness of life, but not as its only interest,
still less its only aim.

And upon analyzing with some care the motives of his principal stories, we
shall often find that the love in them is merely a light by which
the sterner features of character are to be irradiated, and that
the marriage of the hero is as subordinate to the main bent of the
story as Henry the Fifth's courtship of Katherine is to the battle
of Agincourt.

Nay, the fortunes of the person who is nominally the subject of the
tale are often little more than a background on which grander figures
are to be drawn, and deeper fates forthshadowed.

The judgments between the faith and chivalry of Scotland at Drumclog
and Bothwell Bridge owe little of their interest in the mind of a
sensible reader to the fact that the captain of the Popinjay is
carried a prisoner to one battle, and returns a prisoner from the
other: and Scott himself, while he watches the white sail that bears
Queen Mary for the last time from her native land, very nearly
forgets to finish his novel, or to tell us--and with small sense
of any consolation to be had out of that minor circumstance,--that
"Roland and Catherine were united, spite of their differing faiths."
22.

Neither let it be thought for an instant that the slight, and sometimes
scornful, glance with which Scott passes over scenes which a
novelist of our own day would have analyzed with the airs of a
philosopher, and painted with the curiosity of a gossip, indicates
any absence in his heart of sympathy with the great and sacred
elements of personal happiness.

An era like ours, which has with diligence and ostentation swept
its heart clear of all the passions once known as loyalty, patriotism,
and piety, necessarily magnifies the apparent force of the one
remaining sentiment which sighs through the barren chambers, or
clings inextricably round the chasms of ruin; nor can it but regard
with awe the unconquerable spirit which still tempts or betrays the
sagacities of selfishness into error or frenzy which is believed
to be love.

That Scott was never himself, in the sense of the phrase as employed by
lovers of the Parisian school, "ivre d'amour," may be admitted
without prejudice to his sensibility,[50] and that he never knew
"l'amor che move 'l sol e l'altre stelle," was the chief, though
unrecognized, calamity of his deeply checkered life.

Maginn's friend, Kenealey, wrote to an
American, who was about to edit Maginn's writings, "You have a glorious
opportunity, where you have no fear of libel before your eyes.  _Maginn's
best things can never be published till his victims have passed from the
scene_."  How significant is this!  Then Pott's "combining his
information," his "cramming" critic, his using the lore of the
Encyclopedia Britannica for his articles suggest Maginn's classical
lucubrations.  A well-known eminent _Litterateur_, to whom I suggested
this view, objected that Pott is not shown to be such a blackguard as
Maginn, and that Maginn was not such an ass as Pott.  But Boz generalised
his borrowed originals.  Skimpole was taken from Leigh Hunt, yet was
represented as a sort of scoundrel; and Boz confessed that he only
adapted his lighter manner and airy characteristics.

In these latter days, people have been somewhat astonished by the strange
"freak" of our leading journal in so persistently offering and pressing
on the public their venture of a new edition of the Encyclopedia.  Every
ingenious variation of bold advertisement is used to tempt the
purchaser--a sovereign down and time for the rest; actual pictures of the
whole series of volumes; impassioned arguments, pleadings, and an appeal
to take it at the most wonderfully low price.  Then we have desirable
information, dealing with topics of varied kind, and assurances that
material would here be found for dealing conveniently with every known
subject.  Still, what a surprise that use was not made of "the immortal
Pickwick" in whose pages these peculiar advantages were more successfully
and permanently set forth and illustrated by one most telling example
furnished by no other than Mr. Pott himself, the redoubtable editor of
the _Eatanswill Gazette_.  To him and to no other is due the credit of
being the first to show practically _how to use_ the Encyclopedia.  He
has furnished a _principle_ which is worth all the lengthy exhortations
of the _Times_ itself.

Pott seems to have kept the work in his office, and to have used it for
his articles in a highly ingenious fashion.  For three months had he been
supplying a series of papers, which he assures us "appeared at
intervals," and which excited "such general--I may say, such universal
attention and admiration."  A fine tribute surely to the Encyclopedia.
For recollect Pott's was a newspaper.  The _Times_ folk say nothing of
this important view.  Poor, simple Mr. Pickwick had not seen the articles
because he was busy travelling about and had no time for reading.
(Probably Pott would have put him on the "free list" of his paper, but
for the awkward Winkle flirtation which broke up the intimacy).  Nay, he
might have had "the revolving book case," which would handily contain
_all_ the volumes.

And what were these articles?  "They appeared in the form of a
_copious_"--mark the word!--"review of a work on Chinese Metaphysics."  It
had need to be copious therefor, for it is a very large subject.  Mr.
Pickwick himself must have been very familiar with the Encyclopedia, for
he at once objected that he was not aware that so abstruse a topic was
dealt with in its pages.  He had perhaps consulted the book, say, at
Garraway's Coffee House, for, alas! the good man was not able to have a
library of his own, living, as he did, in lodgings or at the "George and
Vulture."  Mr. Pott, however, who also knew the work well, had then to
confess that there was no such subject treated separately in it.  But the
articles were from the pen of his critic (not from his own), "who
_crammed_ for it, to use a technical but expressive term; he read up for
the subject, at my desire, in the Encyclopedia."

Now, as the subject was _not_ treated in the work, how could this
"cramming" help him?  Here comes in the system, so unaccountably
overlooked by the _Times_, _i.e._, the Combination Method.  "He read,
sir," rejoined Pott, laying his hand on Mr. Pickwick's knee and looking
round with a smile of intellectual superiority, "he read for metaphysics
under the letter _M_, and for China under the letter _C_, and _combined
his information_, _sir_."  There we have it!  We find separate articles
_De omni scribili_, and many topics unavoidably passed over; but we see
how this can be cured by the ingenious Pott system.  Combine your
information!  There you are!  Here for instance--under "Metaphysics" we
do find something about' Confucius and the other Pundits; we then turn to
China and get local colour, Chinese writers. &c., and then proceed "to
combine our information."  And so with hundreds of other instances and
other topics.  Pott, therefore, has been overlooked by the managers of
the _Times_, but it is not yet too late for them to call attention to his
system.  It is of interest to all at Eatanswill.

Pott was in advance of his time.  His paper was not wholly the sort of
scurrilous organ it has been shown to be.  To weight its columns with
"Chinese Metaphysics," was a bold, reforming step--then the going on for
three months, _i.e._, _twelve_ articles--and all read with avidity.  And
what are we to think of the Eatanswill readers--surely in advance, too.
And here we have him, nearly seventy years ago, giving a well-deserved
puff to the Encyclopedia, which is really worth the innumerable columns
the leading journal has devoted to the book.  Its last effort was to show
an ingenious connection between the British Association and the
Encyclopedia, on the ground of its various Presidents.  "It stimulates,
in fact creates, the necessity for a good working Library of Science.  It
is here that the Encyclopedia comes in as of especial service."


CHAPTER II.  BATH


I.--The Old City


Bath, which already owed so much to famous writers, was destined to owe
even more to Boz, the genial author of "Pickwick"--a book which has so
much increased the gaiety of the nation.  The scenes at the old city are
more minute and vivid than any yet offered.  But, if it owe much to Boz,
it repaid him by furnishing him with a name for his book which has gone
over the world.  Everything about this name will be interesting; and it
is not generally known when and how Boz obtained it.

There is a small hamlet some few miles from Bath and 97 from London--which
is 106 miles away from Bath--bearing the name of "Pickwick."  The Bath
coach, by the way, started from the White Horse Cellars, Piccadilly, at
half-past seven in the morning, and took just twelve hours for the
journey.  Now it is made by the Great Western in two!  Here, many years
ago, at the time of the story, was "Pickwick House, the seat of C. N.
Loscombe, Esq.," and also "Pickwick Lodge," where dwelt Captain Fenton.
Boz had never seen or heard of such places, but all the same they
indirectly furnished him with the name.  A mail-coach guard found an
infant on the road in this place, and gave it the name of "Pickwick."  The
word "Pickwick" contains the common terminal "wick," as in "Warwick," and
which means a village or hamlet of some kind.  Pickwick, however, has
long since disappeared from the face of the map.  Probably, after the
year 1837, folk did not relish dating their letters from a spot of such
humorous memories.

This Moses Pickwick was taken into the service of the coaching hotel, the
White Hart, gradually devoted himself to the horse and coaching business,
and, at the time of Boz's or Mr. Pickwick's visit, was the actual
proprietor of the coaches on the road.  "The name," said Sam, "is not
only down on the vay-bill, sir, but they've painted vun on 'em on the
door of the coach."  As Sam spoke he pointed to that part of the door on
which the proprietor's name usually appears, and there, sure enough, in
gilt letters of a goodly size, was the magic name of PICKWICK.  "Dear
me," said Mr. Pickwick, quite staggered by the coincidence, "what a very
extraordinary thing!"  "Yes; but that ain't all," said Sam, again
directing his master's attention to the coach-door.  "Not content with
writin' up 'Pickwick,' they put 'Moses' afore it, which I calls adding
insult to injury."  "It's odd enough, certainly," said Mr. Pickwick.  When
he was casting about for a good name for his venture, it recurred to him
as having a quaint oddity and uncanniness.  And thus it is that we owe to
Bath, and to Bath only, this celebrated name.  It is said that he rushed
into the publisher's office, exultingly proclaiming his selection.

Few cities have had their society and manners sketched by such eminent
pens as Bath--Smollett, Miss Burney, Miss Austen, and Boz.  The old walls
and houses are thus made to live.  Boz has given one of the most vivid
and vivacious pictures of its expiring glories in the thirties, when
there were still "M.C.s," routs, assemblies, and sedans.  His own
connection with the place is a personal, and a very interesting one.  He
was there in 1835 on election business hurrying after Lord John Russell,
all over the country, to report his speeches--a young fellow of three and
twenty, full of "dash," "go," and readiness of resource, of immense
energy and carelessness of fatigue, ready to go anywhere and do anything.
While thus engaged on serious business, he kept his eyes wide open, took
in all the humours of Bath, and noted them in his memory, though he made
no use of this till more than two years later, when he was well on into
"Pickwick."

The entering an old city by night always leaves a curious romantic
impression, and few old cities gain so much as Bath by this mode of
approach.  The shadowy houses have a monumental air; the fine streets
which we mostly ascend show a mystery, especially as we flit by the open
square, under the great, black Abbey, which seems a beetling rock.  This
old Bath mysteriousness seems haunted by the ghosts of Burney, Johnson,
Goldsmith, Wilkes, Quin, Thrale, Mr. Pickwick, and dozens more.  Fashion
and gentilily hover round its stately homes.  Nothing rouses such ideas
of state and dignity as the Palladian Circus.  There is a tone of
mournful grandeur about it--something forlorn.  Had it, in some freak of
fashion, been abandoned, and suffered, for a time at least, to go to
neglect and be somewhat overgrown with moss and foliage, it would pass
for some grand Roman ruin.  There is a solemn, greyish gloom about it;
the grass in the enclosure is rank, long, and very green.  Pulteney
Street, too: what a state and nobility there is about it!  So wide and so
spacious; the houses with an air of grand solidity, with no carvings or
frittering work, but relying on their fine lines and proportion.  To
lodge there is an education, and the impression remains with one as of a
sense of personal dignity from dwelling in such large and lofty chambers,
grandly laid out with noble stairs and the like.  The builders in this
fine city would seem to have been born architects; nearly all the houses
have claims to distinction: each an expression and feeling of its own.
The fine blackened or browned tint adds to the effect.  The mouldings are
full of reserve and chastened, suited exactly to the material.  There is
something, too, very stately about the octagon Laura Place, which opens
on to Pulteney Street.

In this point of view Bath is a more interesting city than Edinburgh.  Mr.
Peach has written two most interesting little quartos on the "Historic
Houses of Bath;" and Mr. T. Sturge Cotterell has prepared a singularly
interesting map of Bath, in which all the spots honoured by the residence
of famous visitors are marked down.  It is very extraordinary the number
and distinction of these personages.

I don't know anything more strange and agreeable than the feeling of
promenading the Parades, North and South--a feeling compounded of awe,
reverence, and exciting interest.  The tranquil repose and dignity of
these low, solid houses, the broad flagged Promenade, the unmistakable
air of old fashion, the sort of reality and self-persuasion that they
might in a moment be re-peopled with all these eminent persons--much as
Boz called up the ghosts of the old mail-coach passengers in his telling
ghost story--the sombre grey of the walls, the brightness of the windows:
these elements join to leave an extraordinary impression.  The houses on
these Parades are charming from their solid proportions, adapted, as it
were, to the breadth of the Parade.  Execrable, by the way, are the
modern attempts seen side by side; feeble and incapable, not attempting
any expression at all.  There is a row of meagre tenements beside the
Abbey--attempts at pinnacled gables--which it is a sorrowful thing to
look on, so cheap and starved is it.  Even the newer shops, in places
like Milsom Street, with nothing to do but to copy what is before them,
show the same _platitude_.  Here and there you are constantly coming upon
one of these beautifully designed old mansions piteously disguised, cut
up in two or three it may be, or the lower portion fashioned into a shop.


II.--The Pump Room and Assembly Rooms


No group of architectural objects is more effective or touches one more
nearly than the buildings gathered about the Baths.  There is something
quaint and old-fashioned in the arrangement, and I am never tired of
coming back to the pretty, open colonnade, the faded yet dignified Pump-
room, with the ambitious hotel and the solemn Abbey rising solemnly
behind.  Then there is the delightful Promenade opposite, under the
arcades--a genuine bit of old fashion--under whose shadow the capricious
Fanny Burney had often strolled.  Everything about this latter
conglomeration--the shape of the ground, the knowledge that the
marvellous Roman baths are below, and even the older portion of the
municipal buildings whose elegant decorations, sculptured garlands, &c.,
bespeak the influence of the graceful Adam, whose pupil or imitator Mr.
Baldwin may have been.

Boz's description of the tarnished Pump-room answers to what is seen now,
save as to the tone of the decorations.  I say "Boz's," for Pickwick, it
should be recollected, was not actually acknowledged by the author, under
his proper name.  It was thought that the well-known and popular "Boz" of
the "Sketches" would attract far more than the obscure C. Dickens.  Now
Boz and the Sketches have receded and are little thought of.  Boz and
Pickwick go far better together than do Pickwick and Dickens.  There is
an old-fashioned solemnity over this Pump-room which speaks of the old
classical taste over a hundred years ago.  How quaint and suitable the
inscription, "[Greek text]," in faded gilt characters.  Within it is one
stately chamber, not altered a bit since the day, sixty-three years ago,
that Boz strolled in and wrote this inscription: As I sat with a friend
beside me in the newly finished concert-room, which is in _happy_
keeping, I called up the old genial Pickwick promenading about under the
direction of Bantam, M.C., and the genial tone of the old gaiety and good
spirits.

The "Tompion Clock," which is carefully noted by Boz, seems to have been
always regarded as a sort of monument.  It is like an overgrown eight-day
clock, without any adornment and plain to a degree--no doubt relying upon
its Tompion works.  It is in exactly the same place as it was over sixty
years ago, and goes with the old regularity.  Nay, for that matter, it
stands where it did a hundred years ago--in the old recess by Nash's
statue and inscription, and was no doubt ordered at the opening of the
rooms.  In an old account of Bath, at the opening of the century,
attention is called to the Tompion clock with a sort of pride.  The steep
and shadowy Gay Street, which leads up to the inviting Crescent and the
more sombre Queen's Square, affects one curiously.  Then we come to the
old Assembly Rooms close by the Circus, between Alfred Street and Bennell
Street--a stately, dignified pile--in the good old classical style of
Bath.  One looks on it with a mysterious reverence: it seems charged with
all sorts of memories of old, bygone state.  For here all the rank and
fashion of Bath used to make its way of Assembly nights.  Many years ago,
there was here given a morning concert to which I found my way, mainly
for the purpose of calling up ghostly memories of the Thrales, and Doctor
Johnson, and Miss Burney, and, above all, of Mr. Pickwick.  Though the
music was the immortal "Passion" of Bach, my eyes were travelling all the
while from one piece of faded _rococo_ work and decoration.  Boz never
fails to secure the _tone_ of any strange place he is describing.  We
all, for instance, have that pleased, elated feeling on the first morning
after our arrival over night at a new place--the general brightness,
surprise, and air of novelty.  We are willing to be pleased with
everything, and pass from object to object with enjoyment.  Now all this
is difficult to seize or to describe.  Boz does not do the latter, but he
conveys it perfectly.  We see the new arrivals seated at breakfast, and
the entrance of the Dowlers with the M.C., and the party setting off to
see the "Lions," the securing tickets for the Assembly, the writing down
their names in "the book," Sam sent specially up to Queen's Square, and
so on.  All which is very exhilarating, and reveals one's own feeling on
such an occasion.  The "Pump-room books" are formally mentioned in the
regulations.  We can see the interior of the Assembly Rooms in Phiz's
plate, with its huge and elaborately framed oval mirrors and
chandeliers--the dancing-room set round with raised benches.  After the
pattern of Ridotto rooms abroad, there were the card-rooms and tea-rooms,
where Mr. Pickwick played whist with Miss Bolo.  We note the sort of Adam
or Chippendale chair on which the whist Dowager is sitting with her back
to us.

Considering that the rules of dress were so strict, pumps and silk
stockings being of necessity, we may wonder how it was that the President
of the Pickwick Club was admitted in his morning dress, his kerseymere
tights, white waistcoat, and black gaiters.  It is clear that he never
changed his dress for evening parties, save on one occasion.  Mr.
Pickwick's costume was certainly in defiance of all rules and
regulations.  It is _laid_ in the regulations of Mr. Tyson, M.C., who
directed that "no gentleman in boots or half-boots be admitted into the
rooms on ball nights or card nights."  Half-boots might certainly cover
Mr. Pickwick's gaiters.  So accurate is the picture that speculation
arises whether Phiz went specially to Bath to make his sketches; for he
has caught in the most perfect way the whole _tone_ of a Bath Assembly,
and he could not have obtained this from descriptions by others.  So,
too, with this picture of the Circus in Mr. Winkle's _escapade_.  It will
be remembered that Boz was rather particular about this picture, and
suggested some minute alterations.  Bantam, the M.C., or "the Grand
Master" as Boz oddly calls him, was drawn from life from an eccentric
functionary named Jervoise.  I have never been quite able to understand
his odd hypothesis about Mr. Pickwick being "the gentleman who had the
waters bottled and sent to Clapham."  But how characteristic the dialogue
on the occasion!  It will be seen that this M.C. cannot credit the notion
of anyone of such importance as Mr. Pickwick "never having been in _Ba-
ath_."  His ludicrous and absurd, "Not bad--not bad!  Good--good.  He,
he, re-markable!" showed how it struck him.  A man of such a position,
too; it was incredible.  With a delightful sense of this theory, he
began: "It is long--_very long_, Mr. Pickwick, _since you drank the
waters_--it appears an age."  Mr. Pickwick protested that it was
certainly long since he had drunk the waters, and his proof was that he
had never been in Bath in his life.  After a moment's reflection the M.C.
saw the solution.  "Oh, I see; yes, yes; good, good; better and better.
You are the gentleman residing on Clapham Green who lost the use of your
limbs from imprudently taking cold _after port wine_, who could not be
moved in consequence of acute suffering, and who had the water from the
King's Bath bottled at 103 degrees and sent by waggon to his bed-room in
town, where he bathed, sneezed, and same day recovered."  This amusing
concatenation is, besides, an admirable and very minute stroke of
character, and the frivolous M.C. is brought before us perfectly.  While
a capital touch is that when he saw young Mr. Mutanhead approaching.
"Hush! draw a little nearer, Mr. Pickwick.  You see that splendidly
dressed young man coming this way--the richest young man in Bath!"

"You don't say so," said Mr. Pickwick.

"_Yes_, _you'll hear his voice in a moment_, _Mr. Pickwick_.  _He'll
speak to me_."  _Particular_ awe and reverence could not be better
expressed.

It is curious how accurate the young fellow was in all his details.  He
describes the ball as beginning at "precisely twenty minutes before eight
o'clock;" and according to the old rules it had to begin as soon after
seven as possible.  "Stay in the tea room and take your sixpennorths."
Mr. Dowler's advice was after a regulation "that everyone admitted to the
tea-rooms on dress nights shall pay _6d._ for tea."  The M.C.'s visit to
Mr. Pickwick was a real carrying out of the spirit of the regulations, in
which it was requested that "all strangers will give the M.C. an
opportunity of being introduced to them before they themselves are
entitled to that attention and respect."

Nothing is more gratifying to the genuine Pickwickians than to find how
all these old memories of the book are fondly cherished in the good city.
All the Pickwickian localities are identified, and the inhabitants are
eager in every way to maintain that Mr. Pickwick belongs to them, and had
been with them.  We should have had his room in the White Hart pointed
out, and "slept in" by Americans and others, had it still been left to
stand.  Not long since, the writer went down to the good old city for the
pleasant duty of "preaching Pickwick," as he had done in a good many
places.  There is an antique building or temple not far from where an old
society of the place--the Bath Literary and Scientific Institute--holds
its meetings, and here, to a crowded gathering under the presidency of
Mr. Austen King, the subject was gone into.  It was delightful for the
Pickwickian stranger to meet so appreciative a response, and many curious
details were mentioned.  At the close--such is the force of the
delusion--we were all discussing Mr. Pickwick and his movements here and
there, with the same _conviction_ as we would have had in the case of
Miss Burney, or Mrs. Thrale or Dr. Johnson.  The whole atmosphere was
congenial, and there was an old-world, old-fashioned air over the rooms.
It was delightful to be talking of Mr. Pickwick's Bath adventures in
Bath.

Nor was there anything unreasonably fantastical in making such
speculations all but realities.  Bantam lived, as we know, in St. James's
Square--that very effective enclosure, with its solemn house and rich
deep greenery, that recall our own Fitzroy.  No. 14 was his house, and
this, it was ascertained, was the actual residence of the living M.C.  How
bold, therefore, of Boz to send up Sam to the very Square!  Everyone,
too, knew Mrs. Craddock's house in the Circus--at least it was one of
two.  It was No. 15 or 16, because at the time there were only a couple
in the middle which were let in lodgings, the rest being private houses.
This was fairly reasonable.  But how accurate was Boz!  No doubt he had
some friends who were quartered in lodgings there.

I scarcely hoped to find the scene of the footmen's "swarry" tracked out,
but so it was.  On leaving Queen Square in company with Mr. Smauker to
repair to the scene of the festivity, Sam and his friend set off walking
"towards High Street," then "turned down a bye-street," and would "soon
be there."  This bye-street was one turning out of Queen Square at the
corner next Bantam's house; and a few doors down we find a rather shabby-
looking "public" with a swinging sign, on which is inscribed "The
Beaufort Arms"--a two-storied, three-windowed house.  This, in the book,
is called a "greengrocer's shop," and is firmly believed to be the scene
of "the Swarry" on the substantial ground that the Bath footmen used to
assemble here regularly as at their club.  The change from a public to a
greengrocer's scarcely affects the point.  The uniforms of these
gentlemen's gentlemen were really splendid, as we learn from the
text--rich plushes, velvets, gold lace, canes, &c.  There is no
exaggeration in this, for natives of Bath have assured me they can recall
similar displays at the fashionable church--of Sundays--when these noble
creatures, arrayed gorgeously as "generals," were ranged in lines outside
"waiting their missuses," _pace_ Mr. John Smauker.  At the greengrocer's,
where the Bath footmen had their "swarry," the favourite drink was "cold
srub and water," or "gin and water sweet;" also "S'rub punch," a West
Indian, drink, has now altogether disappeared.  It sounds strange to
learn that a fashionable footman should consult "a copper timepiece which
dwelt at the bottom of a deep watch-pocket, and was raised to the surface
by means of a black string with a copper key."  A _copper_ watch seems
extraordinary, though we have now those of gun metal.

The Royal Crescent, with its fine air and fine view, always strikes one
with admiration as a unique and original monument: the size and
proportions are so truly grand.  The whole scene of Mr. Winkle's escapade
here is extraordinarily vivid, and so protracted, while Mrs. Dowler was
waiting in her sedan for the door to be opened, that it has the effect of
imprinting the very air, look, and tone of the Royal Cresent on us.  We
seem to be waiting with her and the chair-man.  It seems the most
_natural_ thing in the world.  The houses correspond almost exactly with
Phiz's drawing.

Pickwick, it has been often pointed out, is full of amusing "oversights,"
which are pardonable enough, and almost add to the "fun" of the piece.  At
the opening, Mr. Pickwick is described as carrying his portmanteau--in
the picture it is a carpet-bag.  The story opens in 1827, but at once Mr.
Jingle begins to talk of being present at the late Revolution of 1830.
The "George and Vulture" is placed in two different streets.  Old Weller
is called Samuel.  During the scene at the Royal Crescent we are told
that Mrs. Craddock threw up the drawing-room window "just as Mr. Winkle
was rushing into the chair."  She ran and called Mr. Dowler, who rushed
in just as Mr. Pickwick threw up the other window, "when the first object
that met the gaze of both was Mr. Winkle bolting into the sedan chair"
into which he had bolted a minute before.  The late Charles Dickens the
younger, in the notes to his father's writings, affects to have
discovered an oversight in the account of the scene in the Circus.  It is
described how he "took to his heels and tore _round_ the Crescent, hotly
pursued by Dowler and the coachman.  He kept ahead; the door was open as
he came _round_ the second time, &c."  Now, objects the son, the Cresent
is only a half circle; there is no going round it, you must turn back
when you come to the end.  Boz must have been thinking of the Circus.
Hardly--for he knew both well--and Circus and Crescent are things not to
be confused.  The phrase was a little loose, but, as the Circus was
curved "round," is not inappropriate, and he meant that Winkle turned
when he got to the end, and ran back.

It must have been an awkward thing for Winkle to present himself once
more at Mrs. Craddock's in the Crescent.  How was the incident to be
explained save either at his own expense or at that of Mr. Dowler?  If
Dowler were supposed to have gone in pursuit of him, then Mr. Winkle must
have fled, and if he were supposed to have gone to seek a friend, then
Dowler was rather compromised.  No doubt both gentlemen agreed to support
the one story that they had gone away for mutual satisfaction, and had
made it up.

Then, we are told, if it were theatre night perhaps the visitors met at
the theatre.  Did Mr. Pickwick ever go?  This is an open question.  Is
the chronicler here a little obscure, as he is speaking of "the
gentlemen" _en bloc_?  Perhaps he did, perhaps he did'nt, as Boz might
say.  On his visit to Rochester, it does not appear that he went to see
his "picked-up" friend, Jingle, perform.  The Bath Theatre is in the Saw
Close, next door to Beau Nash's picturesque old house.  The old grey
front, with its blackened mouldings and sunk windows, is still there; but
a deep vestibule, or entrance, with offices has been built out in front,
which, as it were, thrusts the old wall back--an uncongenial mixture.
Within, the house has been reconstructed, as it is called, so that Mr.
Palmer or Dimond, or any of the old Bath lights, to say nothing of Mr.
and Mrs. I have no knowledge that any other species of our woodpeckers
excavate these winter quarters, but they probably do. The chickadee has
too slender a beak for such work, and usually spends the winter nights
in natural cavities or in the abandoned holes of Downy.

II
As I am writing here in my study these November days, a downy woodpecker
is excavating a chamber in the top of a chestnut post in the vineyard
a few yards below me, or rather, he is enlarging a chamber which
he or one of his fellows excavated last fall; he is making it ready
for his winter quarters. A few days ago I saw him enlarging the entrance
and making it a more complete circle.
Now he is in the chamber itself working away like a carpenter. I hear his
muffled hammering as I approach cautiously on the grass.
I make no sound and the hammering continues till I have stood for a
moment beside the post, then it suddenly stops and Downy's head appears
at the door. He glances at me suspiciously and then hurries away in much
excitement.

How did he know there was some one so near? As birds have no sense
of smell it must have been by some other means. I return to my study and
in about fifteen minutes Downy is back at work.

Again I cautiously and silently approach, but he is now more alert,
and when I am the width of three grape rows from him he rushes out of
his den and lets off his sharp, metallic cry as he hurries away to some
trees below the hill.

He does not return to his work again that afternoon. But I feel certain
that he will pass the night there and every night all winter unless he
is disturbed. So when my son and I are passing along the path by
his post with a lantern about eight o'clock in the evening, I pause
and say, "Let's see if Downy is at home."

A slight tap on the post and we hear Downy jump out of bed, as it
were, and his head quickly fills the doorway. We pass hurriedly on
and he does not take flight.

A few days later, just at sundown, as I am walking on the terrace above,
I see Downy come sweeping swiftly down through the air on that long
galloping flight of his, and alight on the big maple on the brink of
the hill above his retreat. He sits perfectly still for a few moments,
surveying the surroundings, and, seeing that the coast is clear, drops
quickly and silently down and disappears in the interior of his
chestnut lodge. He will do this all winter long, coming home, when the
days are stormy, by four o'clock, and not stirring out in the morning
till nine or ten o'clock. Some very cold, blustering days he will probably
not leave his retreat at all.

He has no mate or fellow lodger, though there is room in his cabin for
three birds at least. Where the female is I can only conjecture; maybe she
is occupying a discarded last year's lodge, as I notice there are a good
many new holes drilled in the trees every fall, though many of the old
ones still seem intact.

During the inclement season Downy is anything but chivalrous or even generous.
He will not even share with the female the marrow bone or bit of suet that
I fasten on the maple in front of my window, but drives her away
rudely. Sometimes the hairy woodpecker, a much larger bird, routs
Downy out and wrecks his house. Sometimes the English sparrows mob
him and dispossess him.
In the woods the flying squirrels often turn him out of doors and
furnish his chamber cavity to suit themselves.

III
I am always content if I can bring home from my walks the least bit
of live natural history, as when, the other day, I saw a red-headed
woodpecker having a tilt with a red squirrel on the trunk of a
tree.
Doubtless the woodpecker had a nest near by, and had had some
experience with this squirrel as a nest-robber.That first-class hotel was, alas! not open to the poor,
over-worked reporter; and he could tell of nothing that went on within
its portals.  Hotel life on a handsome scale was not for _him_, and he
was obliged to put up at far humbler quarters, a sort of common inn.

There is nothing more quaint or interesting than this genuine antique--the
Saracen's Head in Walcot.  It may pair off with the old White Horse in
Canongate, where "Great Sam" put up for a night.  It is surely the most
effective of all the old inns one could see.  It has two faces, and looks
into two different streets, with its double gables, and date (1713)
inscribed on a tablet outside.  It is a yellow, well-worn little
building.  And you enter through darkened tunnels, as it were, cut
through the house, coming into a strange yard of evident antiquity, with
a steep, ladder-like flight of stone steps that leads up to a window much
like the old Canongate houses.  Here, then, it was that Boz put up, and
here are preserved traditions and relics of his stay.  One of the tales
is that, after some exuberant night _in the election time_, he would get
his candle and, having to cross the court, would have it blown out half a
dozen times, when he would go back patiently to relight it.  They show
his chair, and a jug out of which he drank, but one has not much faith in
these chairs and jugs; they always seem to be supplied to demand, and
must be found to gratify the pilgrims.

One of the examination queries which might have found a place in Mr.
Calverley's paper of questions is this: "When did Mr. Pickwick sit down
_to make entries in his journal_, and spend half an hour in so doing?"  At
Bath on the night of Mr. Winkle's race round the Crescent.  What was this
journal?  Or why did he keep it?  Or why are so few allusions made to it?
Mr. Snodgrass was the appointed historiographer of the party, and his
"notes" are often spoken of and appealed to as the basis of the
chronicle.  But half an hour, as I say, was the time the great man seems
to have allotted to his posting up the day's register: "Mr. Pickwick shut
up the book, wiped his pen _on the bottom of the inside of his
coat-tail_, and opened the drawer of the inkstand to put it carefully
away."  How particular--how real all this is!  This it is that gives the
_living_ force to the book, and a persuasion--irresistible almost--that
it is all about _some living person_.  I have often wondered how it is
that this book of Boz's has such an astounding power of development, such
a fertility in engendering other books, and what is the secret of it.
Scott's astonishing Waverley series, Thackeray's "Vanity Fair," Boz's own
"Nicholas Nickleby," "Oliver Twist," in fact, not one of the whole series
save "the immortal 'Pickwick'" has produced anything in the way of books
or commentaries.  I believe it is really owing to this.  Boz was a great
admirer of Boswell's equally immortal book.  I have heard him speak of
it.  He attempted parodies of it even.  He knew all the turns, the
Johnsonian twists, "Why, sirs," &c., and used them in his letters.  He
was permeated with the Johnsonian ether; that detail, that description of
trifling things which was in Boswell, attracted him, and he felt it; and
the fact remains that Pickwick is written on _the principles_--no copy--of
the great biography, and that Boz applied to a mere fictional story what
was related in the account of a living man.  And it is really curious
that Boswell's "Life of Johnson" should be the only other book that
tempts people to the same rage for commentary, illustrations, and
speculations.  These are of exactly the same character in both books.

The MS. that Mr. Pickwick so oddly found in the drawer of his inkstand at
Mrs. Craddock's, Royal Crescent, Bath, offered another instance of Boz's
ingenious methods of introducing episodical tales into his narrative.  He
was often hard put to it to find an occasion: they were highly useful to
fill a space when he was pressed for matter.  He had the strongest
_penchant_ for this sort of thing, and it clung to him through his life.
Those in "Pickwick" are exceedingly good, full of spirit and "go," save
one, the "Martha Lobbs" story, which is a poorish thing.  So good are the
others, they have been taken out and published separately.  They were no
doubt written for magazines, and were lying by him, but his Bath
story--"The True Legend of Prince Bladud"--was written specially.  It is
quite in the vein of Elia's Roast Pig story, and very gaily told.  He had
probably been reading some local guide-book, with the mythical account of
Prince Bladud, and this suggested to him his own humorous version.  At
the close, he sets Mr. Pickwick a-yawning several times, who, when he had
arrived at the end of this little manuscript--which certainly could not
have been compressed into "a couple of sheets of writing-paper," but
would have covered at least ten pages--replaced it in the drawer, and
"then, with a _countenance of the utmost weariness_, lighted his chamber
candle and went upstairs to bed."  And here, by the way, is one of the
amusing oversights which give such a piquancy to "Pickwick."  Before he
began to read his paper, we are carefully told that Mr. Pickwick
"unfolded it, lighted his bedroom candle that it might burn up to the
time he had finished."  It was Mr. C. Kent who pointed this out to him,
when Boz seized the volume and humorously made as though he would hurl it
at his friend.

Anyone interested in Bath must of necessity be interested in Bristol, to
which, as all know, Mr. Winkle fled after the unhappy business in the
Circus.  He found a coach at the Royal Hotel--which no longer exists--a
vehicle which, we are told, went the whole distance "twice a day and
more" with a single pair of horses.  There he put up at the Bush, where
Mr. Pickwick was to follow him presently.  The Bush--a genuine Pickwick
inn--where Mr. Pickwick first heard the news of the action that was to be
brought against him, stood in Corn Street, near to the Guildhall, the
most busy street in Bristol; but it was taken down in 1864, and the
present Wiltshire Bank erected on the site.  Mr. Pickwick broke off his
stay at Bath somewhat too abruptly; he left it and all its festivities on
this sudden chase after Winkle.  But he may have had a reason.  Nothing
is more wonderful than Boz's propriety in dealing with his incidents, a
propriety that is really instinctive.  Everything falls out in the
correct, natural way.  For instance, Mr. Pickwick having received such a
shock at the Bush--the announcement of the Bardell action--was scarcely
in heart to resume his jollity and gaieties at Bath.  We might naturally
expect a resumption of the frolics there.  He accordingly returned there;
but we are told curtly, "The remainder of the period which Mr. Pickwick
had assigned as the duration of his stay at Bath passed over without an
occurrence of anything material.  Trinity term commenced on the
expiration of the first week.  Mr. Pickwick and his friends returned to
London; and the former gentleman, attended of course by Sam, straightway
repaired to his old quarters at the George and Vulture."

And now in these simple sentences have we not the secret of the great
attraction of the book?  Who would not suppose that this was a passage
from a biography of some one that had lived?  How carefully _minute_ and
yet how naturally the time is accounted for--"passed over without the
occurrence of anything material."  It is impossible to resist this air of
_vraisemblance_.


CHAPTER III.  OLD ROCHESTER


I.--Jingle and the Theatre


The little Theatre here must be interesting to us from the fact of
Jingle's having been engaged to play there with the officers of the 52nd
Regiment on the night of May 15th, 1827.  Jingle was described as "a
strolling actor," and belonged to the "Kent circuit," that is, to the
towns of Canterbury, Rochester, Maidstone, &c.  To this circuit also
belonged "Dismal Jemmy," who was "no actor," yet did the "heavy
business."  It does not appear that he, also, was engaged for the
officers' performance.  We often wonder whether Jingle _did_ perform on
the night in question; or did Dr. Payne and Lieutenant Tappleton tell the
story of his behaviour to their brethren: of his passing himself off as a
gentleman, his wearing another gentleman's clothes, and his insults to
Dr. Slammer.  Tappleton scornfully recommended Mr. Pickwick to be more
nice in the selection of his companions.  No doubt Jingle was suggested
to the officers by the manager: "knew a really smart chap who will just
do for the part."  On the whole, I think they must have had his services,
as it was too late to get a substitute.  Jingle, as we know, was played
successfully by Sir Henry Irving in the early 'seventies, _tempore_
Bateman.  His extraordinary likeness to the Phiz portrait struck every
one, and it was marked, not only in face, but in figure, manner, &c.  The
adaptation of "Pickwick," however, was very roughly done by the late
James Albery, who merely _tacked_ together the Jingle scenes.  Those,
where there is much genial comedy, such as the Ball scene at Rochester,
were left out.  It is likely that the boy, Boz, noticed Dismal Jemmy
among the strollers, and possibly may have seen a Jingle himself.  But
the characters of Jingle and his confederate, Job, were certainly
suggested by Robert Macaire and Jacques Strop, which, a little before the
appearance of Pickwick, were being played in London--in "_L'Auberge des
Adrets_."

Mr. Pickwick had discovered in the morning that Jingle was "connected
with the Theatre in that place, _though he is not desirous to have it
generally known_."

Now considering generally the different "games" he was pursuing, his
passing himself off as an officer, an amateur of cricket, &c., it was not
altogether desirable to have his profession known.  Knowing also that Mr.
Pickwick intended staying at Rochester, and that the gay Tupman or
Snodgrass would find out his engagement and witness his performance, he
likely enough confided his secret to Mr. Pickwick.  "Dismal Jemmy," the
odd being who appears at Rochester for a short time, had promised Mr.
Pickwick a tale which he never gave him.  At the end of the story, _Boz_,
having forgotten the engagement, is driven to supply a far-fetched
reason.  He was Job's brother, and went to America "in consequence of
being too much sought after here."  It will be recollected he was of a
depressed and gloomy cast, and on the Bridge at Rochester talked of
suicide.  He also told the dismal "stroller's tale."  Now, it is plain
that Boz drew him as a genuine character, and his behaviour to the
stroller was of a charitable kind.  Boz, in fact, meant him to be a
suitable person to relate so dismal an incident.  However, all this was
forgotten or put aside at the end, and having become Job's brother, he
had to be in keeping.  The reformed Jingle declared he was "merely
acting--clever rascal--hoaxing fellow."  His brother Job added that he
himself was the serious one, "while Jemmy never was."  Mr. Pickwick then
presumed that his talk of suicide was all flam, and that his dismals were
all assumed.  "He could assume anything," said Job.  Boz, too, forgot
that his name was James Hutley, whereas the brothers' was Trotter--though
this may have been an assumed one.

The condition of the Rochester stage must have been rather low, when we
find two such persons as Jingle and Dismal Jemmy members of the corps.
Jingle's jerky system of elocution would seem a complete
disqualification.  From sheer habit, it would have been impossible for
him to say his lines in any other fashion--which in all the round of
light "touch and go" comedy, would have been a drawback.

The little Theatre is at the farther end of the town, where the road
turns off to the fields, a low, unpretending building with a small
portico.  I recall it in the old days, on a walk from Gads Hill, when I
paused to examine the bills of the benefit of a certain theatrical family
of the Crummles sort--father, mother, sons, and daughters, who supplied
everything.  The head founded his claims to support on being a fellow
townsman, winding up with Goldsmith's lines:

   And as the hare, whom hounds and horns pursue,
   Pants to the spot from whence at first it flew;
   I still had hopes, my lengthened wanderings past,
   Here to return, and die at home at last.

Boz was hugely amused when I rehearsed this to him at lunch.

He himself, on his later visit, noted the strange encroachments that were
being made on the Theatre.  A wine merchant had begun on the cellars, and
was gradually squeezing himself into the box-office, and would no doubt
go on till he secured the auditorium, the lobbies, etc.  When I last
passed by that way, it had become the Conservative Club, or some such
institution.

The wonderful picture, given in "Nickleby," of the Portsmouth playhouse,
with all its characters and accessories and inner life, shows the most
intimate familiarity with all the ways and fashions of the old Provincial
Theatre.  Every touch--Crummles, Folair, Lenville, Snivelicci--proves
clearly that he knew perfectly the life behind the scenes, and that he
wrote of it _con amore_.  There was a firm belief at the Theatre Royal,
Portsmouth, that all the performers in "Nickleby" were personal sketches
of this corps.  One actor told my friend, Mr. Walter Pollock, that they
could even identify Folair, Lenville & Co., and that there was a playbill
still extant in which either the names or the pieces corresponded.  But
in this theory, however, little faith can be placed; for at the time the
family was at Portsmouth, Dickens was but a child not more than ten or
twelve years old, and not likely, therefore, to be taken behind the
scenes, or to pick up or observe much.  It is certain that the whole
description of the Theatre and its company, with the minute and intimate
details of stage life, was drawn from this little house at Rochester.  But
we can go beyond mere speculation.

In one of his retrospections, Boz tells us of a visit he paid to
Rochester in the fifties, "scenes among which my _early days_ were past."
The town he calls Dullborough, which is a little hard on the place.  He
went to look at the old theatre, and reveals to us how it brought back to
him a number of reminiscences, which shows that he was much associated
with stage matters when a youth, for he describes Richard III. and
Macbeth all "cast" and mounted exactly as Mr. Crummles would have mounted
them.  "There was Richard in a very uncomfortable wig, and sleeping in
war time on a sofa that was much too short for him, and his conscience
fearfully troubled his boots."  There was the lovely young woman, "who
went out gleaning, in a narrow, white muslin apron, with five beautiful
bars of five different colours across it.  The witches bore an awful
resemblance to the Thanes and other inhabitants of Scotland; while the
good King Duncan couldn't rest in his grave, but was constantly coming
out of it and calling himself somebody else."  These are all Crummles
touches, only he refrained from going again over the old ground.  But one
point further favours the theory--he recalls his alarm when Richard in
his terrific combat was "backing up against the stage box."  He was in
the stage box then, and therefore a privileged person at the theatre.  His
uncle, "Dr. Slammer," no doubt was thus complimented as being "in Her
Majesty's service."  "Of course," he goes on, "the town had shrunk
fearfully since I was a child there."

The description of the outlaw drama which Nicholas Nickleby saw on the
night of his arrival is exactly in the key of the account of the
performance of "Richard III." just given: also the account of the London
manager, who was in the boxes; still more so when Mr. Crummles and all
the company _died at him_.  And as in Nickleby we have "the Comic
Countryman" who so inopportunely caught a bluebottle when Mrs. Crummles
was making her great point for the London Manager: so in the account of
Dullborough we are told of "the _Funny_ Countryman" who sustained the
comic, bucolic parts.  This alone would show that the Rochester and
Portsmouth Theatres were the same, while the beautiful young lady in the
white apron performed the same sort of characters that Miss Bravassa, or
Miss Snivelicci did.

And in this connection may be supplied a further speculation which is
interesting.  In _Boz's_ earlier works it is plain that he relies for his
most striking effects of character on his own recollections and personal
observations.  They might be considered passages from his autobiography.
I have thought that much in "Nickleby" of Nicholas's career and
Nicholas's own character was drawn from himself.  Nicholas suggests Boz
in appearance, in his spirit and vehemence, and in some of his
adventures.  Some years ago a remarkable letter appeared in the papers,
in which Dickens, then a mere youth, made an application to one of the
managers, Mr. Webster I think, for a situation in his theatre.  He wanted
to go on the stage.  Was not this like Nicholas?  This desire was surely
founded on intimate acquaintance with the boards and amateur experience.

"I had entertained the impression," he goes on, "that the High Street was
as wide as Regent Street--I found it little better than a lane.  There
was a public clock in it which I had supposed to be the finest clock in
the world, whereas it now turned out to be _as inexpressive_, _moon-faced
and weak_ a clock as ever I saw."  The Town Hall was a "mean little brick
heap, like a demented chapel."


II.--The Bull


Jingle, it will be recollected, on the party arriving at the Bull, gave
that Inn the highest praise, recommending them to stay there--"_good
house_--_nice beds_--" a testimonial that used to be displayed in gold
letters at the door, but which, I have seen it stated, has been removed.
I have also read the same testimonial in the guides and advertisements.
Jingle warned them against another Inn hard by,--"Wright's--next
house--_dear_--_very dear_--half-a-crown if you look at the waiter,
making a charge for dinner, all the same, if you dined out"; a practice,
however, not altogether unknown to modern Hotels.  It was bold in Boz,
thus to publicly disparage Hotels that he did not approve.  "Wright's"
could not have relished so public an allusion.  What or where was
Wright's--"next house?"  There is now--in the same High Street--"The
King's Head," described as "Family and Commercial, one of the
oldest-established in the Kingdom, close to the Cathedral and Castle--home
comforts."  This being its position--the Castle on one side, the
Cathedral on the other--situated exactly as the Bull was--and therefore
"next house," accurately described its position.  Being "one of the
oldest-established," it must have been there at the time of the
Pickwickian visit.

At the Bull, they show you "Mr. Pickwick's room"--as well as Tupman's and
Winkle's--Boz's very particular description enables this to be done.  Mr.
Pickwick's was, of course, to the front--when, roused by the Boots, he
gave the direction of his followers' bed-room, "next room but two on the
right hand."  Winkle's room was inside Tupman's--so we are shown a room
in the front with another inside of it--and the _third_ on the left will,
of course, be Mr. Pickwick's, Q.E.D.  The waiters know all these points,
and prove them to the bewildered visitors.  "You see, sir, there is the
very room _where the clothes were stolen_."


III.--Jingle's Love Affairs


Jingle's elopement with the spinster aunt was ingeniously contrived, but
it seemed rather speculative and rash--she might not have had a penny.
His only ground for jumping to the conclusion that she _had_ a fortune
was that, on his saying that "Tupman only wants your money"; "The
wretch!" she exclaimed--"Mr. Jingle's doubts were resolved--she _had_
money."  More wonderful, too, were the very easy terms on which he was
"bought off"--a hundred and twenty pounds.  Her fortune might be
estimated at some thousands.  He was really master of the situation.  The
lady was of mature age--her own mistress, Wardle and his attorney could
do nothing to stop the business.  He certainly might have held out for
four or five hundred pounds.  Perker's diplomacy was wretched, and his
plea about the age of the old lady mere burlesque.  "You are right, my
dear sir--she is rather old.  The founder of the family came into Kent
when Julius Caesar invaded Britain; only one member of it since who
hasn't lived to eighty-five, and _he_ was beheaded by one of the Henrys.
The old lady is not seventy-three now, my dear sir."  Which seems like
buffooning in a man of business.

Jingle's course, after he left Rochester, can be traced very readily.
With plenty of money in his pocket, he found his way to Ipswich (or
Eatanswill), assuming the name of Captain FitzMarshall, and taking with
him, as his confederate, Job Hutley.  There he got introduced to Nupkins,
the Mayor, who presided at the election, and who had made his money in
"the nail and sarsepan business"--that is, as an ironmonger.  The few
words this functionary uttered on the hustings are of the same pompous
character as his later magisterial deliverances.

"'Whiffin, _proclaim_ silence,' said the Mayor, with air of _pomp_, &c.,
where this superciliousness is emphasised.  'Gentlemen,' he went on,
'brother electors of the Borough of Eatanswill, we are met here to-day
for the purpose of choosing a representative in the room of our late'--but
the noise and interruptions prevented the rest of the speech being heard.
Notwithstanding, he characteristically 'thanked the meeting for the
patient attention with which they had heard him throughout,' a
declaration that excited roars of laughter, lasting for a quarter of an
hour."

This is exactly what one might expect from the self-sufficient Nupkins,
who was evidently understood and laughed at by his fellow townsmen.
Later, when the confusion and "row" grew fast and furious, our Mayor
"issued imperative orders to twelve constables to seize the ringleaders,
who might amount in number to two hundred and fifty or thereabouts."  We
can recall Nupkins' dealing with the schoolboys in exactly the same
sapient spirit.

Into the family of this worthy Jingle insinuated himself.  But would he
not be recognised by Mr. Pickwick and his friends?  Yes; but we find that
he took up his quarters at Bury St. Edmunds, conveniently near, and,
assuming that the Pickwickians had departed after the election, thought
he might safely exhibit himself at Mrs. Leo Hunter's party, whence he was
tracked back to Bury by Mr. Pickwick.  It is certainly fresh evidence of
the identity of Eatanswill with Ipswich that Jingle should have appeared
in both places as "Captain FitzMarshall."  Once established in the
Mayor's family, the insinuating Jingle devoted himself to the capture of
the haughty and ill-natured Henrietta Nupkins, making his way into her
good graces, and "cutting out" Sidney Porkenham, her old-established
admirer.  This was Jingle's second attempt at matrimony which failed like
the first.  It may be said, after all, that his behaviour was not so
heinous.  He was a fortune hunting adventurer--such was his role--which
was common enough in those times.  The unlucky Leo Hunter meeting,
however, spoiled all.

After the trick on Mr. Pickwick at the school, and which was a fair
retort, the pair left Bury that very night.

By an odd coincidence, they were taken up the next day by old Weller at
Chelmsford--a stage or two from London.  He was driving the Ipswich
coach, and brought them to that town.  It is clear, therefore, that they
took this round from Bury in dread of pursuit, and with a view to throw
Mr. Pickwick off the scent.  The latter gentleman never dreamed that they
were so near him, dismissed the whole matter, and returned to town to
arrange about his action.  By a happy chance he met old Weller, and,
within a few days, set off for Ipswich and unmasked Captain FitzMarshall
in Nupkins' own house.  After this failure, his course was downward, and
we next meet him in the Fleet.

Job's story was that Jingle dragged him away in a post-chaise and
persuaded the girl at the boarding-school to tell Mr. Pickwick that she
knew nothing of the matter.  He had also bribed the schoolmistress to
tell the same story.  He had then deserted her for a better speculation,
to wit, Miss Nupkins, to whom he had hurried back.

But for Mr. Pickwick's unfortunate adventure at the "White Horse," Jingle
would likely enough have captured Henrietta Nupkins.  When Sam so
opportunely met Job in the Inn yard at Ipswich, he, instead of punishing
him as he had so often threatened to do, merely bid him be at the Inn at
eight o'clock.  Why did he not bring him straight to Mr. Pickwick who was
upstairs?  Instead, he went up himself, told his master it was "all in
trainin'," and "detailed the plan of action."  Mr. Pickwick was curious,
but Sam only said "all in good time."  We never learn what the plan of
action was to be.  Indeed, what could the pair do to Jingle?


IV.--The Garrison


The military recollections of Rochester and Chatham are amusingly
confused, or rather, in defiance of all known regulations.  Thus, at the
Ball, we find Colonel Bulder as "head of the garrison"--one would think
at so important a quarter, where there was a large garrison, a General at
least would be in command.  Then we may ask the question, why was not Dr.
Slammer in uniform--always required in presence of a commander?  It was
wonderfully bold, too, on Boz's part to give the _numbers_ of the
regiments.  Hon. Wilmot Snipe of the 97th, who _was_ in full uniform,
which Mr. Tupman took for "a fancy dress."  It was, of course, a Highland
one.  We learn, too, that the other regiment was the 43rd, to which Dr.
Payne belonged, and that the 52nd was getting up plays at the local
theatre.  And why did Boz select these particular numbers?

The Chatham garrison consisted of "half-a-dozen regiments," with which a
fair display at a Review could be made on "The Lines."  Temporary
fortifications had been erected, the citadel was to be attacked and
taken--Fort Pitt we may assume--and a mine was to be sprung.  Servants
were keeping places for the ladies "on the Batteries"--an alarming
position it would seem.  The Sergeants were running "with vellum books"
under their arms, usually left at home on Review-day.  The Officers were
"running backwards and forwards," while Colonel Bulder was seen
"gallopping" (with two p's) at large, "prancing and curvetting," that is,
making his steed curvet.  The operations were, however, not under his
command, but directed by the "Commander-in-Chief," not, of course, of the
Army, but, we may presume, the General of the district.  His behaviour
was the most extraordinary of all, for, instead of cultivating a solemn
reserve and quietude, and standing still, surrounded by his staff, he was
seen "backing his horse _among the people_," and heard shouting "till he
was hoarse."  The soldiers wore the old, stiff leather stock, choking
them, which was heard of so much in Crimean days.  They were also arrayed
in _white_ trowsers.  Boz is here wonderfully accurate, for these
garments were always worn after May came round, and this was May.

The catastrophe to the Pickwickians from their having got between the two
lines of soldiers, is somewhat perplexing.  One line was advancing to the
attack, the other firmly awaiting it.  They were shouted at to get out of
the way.  Suddenly the half-dozen regiments had overthrown them.  Mr.
Pickwick was upset.  Winkle received a bloody nose, after performing a
compulsory _somerset_; then, at the same moment--wonder of wonders--we
were told that the regiments were "half-a-thousand yards off,"--that is
about a third of a mile away--all in a second!  It is hard to understand
why they were so maltreated.  The soldiers would, of course, never have
met; and in our own time the amenities of a Review and the police would
have secured stray civilians from such rough treatment.  We do not know
whether the evolutions described were accurate--such as "one rank firing
over the heads of another and then running away."

It was to this exciting spectacle that old Wardle brought a party in that
wonderful Barouche of his--which is really phenomenal for its
accommodation.  When Mr. Pickwick recovered his hat, he found these
persons in the carriage:--1, Wardle; 2, a daughter; 3, a second ditto; 4,
a sister; 5, Trundle; 6, Tupman; 7, Fat Boy, on the box.  The
Pickwickians were actually summoned by the hearty Wardle to join.  "Room
_for you all_--two inside and one on the ox," where there was one
already.  All accepted the invitation, making _ten_ persons in all who
were accommodated in the Barouche!  But this does not exhaust its
wonders.  When lunch time came round, with plates, dishes, bottles, eight
persons were squeezed together inside, so no wonder Wardle said, "We must
sit close."  How it was done is not to be conceived--two sitting together
is the usual allowance for a modern Barouche, but four on one side!--and
yet we are told, when the horses were put to, the Barouche "rattled off."

The boy Dickens had carefully noted the behaviour of the garrison, and
described them as "staggering about the streets of Chatham dead drunk,"
more especially when we remember that the "following them about, and
joking with them, affords _a cheap and innocent amusement for the boy
population_--" (_vide Mr. Pickwick's notes_).  The boy, no doubt, often
witnessed the incident of the private, "drawing his bayonet, and stabbing
the barmaid who had refused to draw him more liquor."  It is
characteristic, by the way, of the police in a garrison town, for this
fellow appears to have been at large on the next day, as he went down to
the Tavern and tried to "square it" with the girl.

And now, is not this a testimony to this strange book, that we should be
thus introduced to old Rochester and its doings, and out of the scant
materials furnished, can really reconstruct the time and the place, and
find out, as if by enquiries, all about Jingle and his connections and
the theatre--such is the fruitfulness of the text?


During one terrible night of wind and snow and zero temperature I
feared he would be swept away.

I thought of him in the middle of the night, when the violence
of the storm kept me from sleep. Imagine this solitary atom in feathers
drifting about in the great arctic out-of-doors and managing to survive.
I fancied him in one of my thick spruces, his head under his
tiny wing, buffeted by wind and snow, his little black feet clinging to
the perch, and wishing that morning would come.

The fat meat is fuel for him; it keeps up the supply of animal heat. None
of the birds will eat lean meat; they want the clear fat. The jays
alight upon it and peck away with great vigor, almost standing on tiptoe
to get the proper sweep. The woodpecker uses his head alone in pecking,
but the jay's action involves the whole body. Yet his blows are softer,
not so sharp and abrupt as those of the woodpecker. Pecking is not exactly
his business.

He swallows the morsel eagerly, watching all the time lest some
enemy surprise him in the act.

Indeed, one noticeable thing about all the birds is their nervousness
while eating. The chickadee turns that bead-like eye of his in all directions
incessantly, lest something seize him while he is not looking. He
is not off his guard for a moment.

It is almost painful to observe the state of fear in which he lives. He
will not keep his place upon the bone longer than a few seconds at a time
lest he become a mark for some enemy,--a hawk, a shrike, or a cat. One
would not think the food would digest when taken in such haste and
trepidation.

While the jays are feeding, swallowing morsel after morsel very rapidly,
the chickadees flit about in an anxious, peevish manner, lest there be
none left for themselves.

I suspect the jays carry the food off and hide it, as they certainly
do corn when I put it out for the hens. The jay has a capacious throat; he
will lodge half a dozen or more kernels of corn in it, stretching his neck
up as he takes them, to give them room, and then fly away to an old
bird's-nest or a caterpillar's nest and deposit them in it. But in this
respect the little kettle cannot call the big pot black.

The chickadee also will carry away what it cannot eat. One day I dug
a dozen or more white grubs--the larvæ of some beetle--out of a decayed
maple on my woodpile and placed them upon my window-sill. The chickadees
soon discovered them, and fell to carrying them off as fast as ever they
could, distributing them among the branches of the Norway spruces.
Among the grubs was one large white one half the size of one's little
finger. One of the chickadees seized this; it was all he could carry, but
he made off with it. The mate to this grub I found rolled up in a
smooth cell in a mass of decayed wood at the heart of the old maple
referred to; it was full of frost. I carried it in by the fire, and
the next day it was alive and apparently wanted to know what had
brought spring so suddenly.

How rapidly birds live! Their demand for food is almost incessant. This
colony of mine appear to feed every eight or ten minutes. Their little
mills grind their grist very rapidly. Once in my walk upon the sea beach
I encountered two small beach birds running up and down in the edge of
the surf, keeping just in the thin, lace-like edging of the waves, and
feeding upon the white, cricket-like hoppers that quickly buried
themselves in the sand as the waters retreated. I kept company with
the birds till they ceased to be afraid of me. They would feed eagerly
for a few minutes and then stop, stand on one leg and put their heads
under their wings for two or three minutes, and then resume their
feeding, so rapidly did they digest their food.

But all birds digest very rapidly.

My two woodpeckers seldom leave the tree upon which the food
is placed. One is a male, as is shown by his red plume, and the other
a female. There is not a bit of kindness or amity between them. Indeed,
there is open hostility. The male will not allow the female even to
look at the meat while he is feeding. She will sidle around toward it,
edging nearer and nearer, when he will suddenly dart at her, and often
pursue her till she leaves the tree.

Every hour in the day I see him trying to drive her from the neighborhood.
She stands in perpetual dread of him, and gives way the instant he
approaches. He is a tyrant and a bully. They both pass the night in
snug chambers which they have excavated in the decayed branch of an
old apple-tree, but not together.

But in the spring what a change will come over the male.

He will protest to the female that he was only in fun, that she took him
far too seriously, that he had always cherished a liking for her.
Last April I saw a male trying his blandishments upon a female in this
way. It may have been the same pair I am now observing. The female was
extremely shy and reluctant; evidently she was skeptical of the
sincerity of so sudden a change on the part of the male. I saw him pursue
her from tree to tree with the most flattering attention. The flight
of the woodpecker is at all times undulating, but on such occasions this
feature is so enhanced and the whole action so affected and studied on
the part of the male that the scene becomes highly amusing. The female
flew down upon a low stump in the currant-patch and was very busy about
her own affairs; the male followed, alighted on something several rods
distant, and appeared to be equally busy about his affairs. Presently the
female made quite a long flight to a tree by the roadside. I could not
tell how the male knew she had flown and what course she had taken, as he
was hidden from her amid the thick currant-bushes; but he did know, and
soon followed after in his curious exaggerated undulatory manner of flight.
I have little doubt that his suit was finally successful.

I watch these woodpeckers daily to see if I can solve the mystery as
to how they hop up and down the trunks and branches without falling
away from them when they let go their hold. They come down a limb
or trunk backward by a series of little hops, moving both feet together.
If the limb is at an angle to the tree and they are on the under side
of it, they do not fall away from it to get a new hold an inch or half
inch farther down. They are held to it as steel to a magnet. Both tail
and head are involved in the feat. At the instant of making the hop the
head is thrown in and the tail thrown out, but the exact mechanics
of it I cannot penetrate.

Philosophers do not yet know how a backward-falling cat turns in the air,
but turn she does. It may be that the woodpecker never quite relaxes
his hold, though to my eye he appears to do so.

Birds nearly always pass the night in such places as they select
for their nests,--ground-builders upon the ground, tree-builders upon
trees. I have seen an oriole ensconce himself for the night amid the thick
cluster of leaves on the end of a maple branch, where soon after his mate
built her nest.

My chickadees, true to this rule, pass the arctic winter nights in little
cavities in the trunks of trees like the woodpeckers.
One cold day, about four o'clock, while it was snowing and blowing,
I heard, as I was unharnessing my horse near the old apple-tree,
the sharp, chiding note of a chickadee.

On looking for the bird I failed to see him.

Suspecting the true cause of his sudden disappearance, I took a pole and
touched a limb that had an opening in its end where the wrens had the
past season had a nest. As I did so, out came the chickadee and
scolded sharply.
The storm and the cold had driven him early to his chamber. The snow
buntings are said to plunge into the snow-banks and pass the night
there. We know the ruffed grouse does this.

IX
BIRD-NESTING TIME

The other day I sat for an hour watching a pair of wood thrushes engaged
in building their nest near "Slabsides." I say a pair, though the
female really did all the work. The male hung around and was evidently
an interested spectator of the proceeding. The mother bird was very busy
bringing and placing the material, consisting mainly of dry maple
leaves which the winter had made thin and soft, and which were strewn
over the ground all about.
How pretty she looked, running over the ground, now in shade, now in
sunshine, searching for the leaves that were just to her fancy! Sometimes
she would seize two or more and with a quick, soft flight bear them to
the fork of the little maple sapling.
Every five or six minutes during her absence, the male would come and inspect
her work. He would look it over, arrange a leaf or two with his beak,
and then go his way. Twice he sat down in the nest and worked his feet and
pressed it with his breast, as if shaping it. When the female found him
there on her return, he quickly got out of her way.

But he brought no material, he did no needful thing, he was a bird of
leisure.

The female did all the drudgery, and with what an air of grace and ease
she did it! So soft of wing, so trim of form, so pretty of pose,
and so gentle in every movement! It was evidently no drudgery to her;
the material was handy, and the task one of love. All the behavior of the
wood thrush affects one like music; it is melody to the eye as the
song is to the ear; it is visible harmony. This bird cannot do an ungraceful
thing. It has the bearing of a bird of fine breeding. Its cousin
the robin is much more masculine and plebeian, harsher in voice, and
ruder in manners. The wood thrush is urban and suggests sylvan halls
and courtly companions. Softness, gentleness, composure, characterize
every movement. In only a few instances among our birds does the male
assist in nest-building. He is usually only a gratuitous superintendent
of the work. The male oriole visits the half-finished structure of his
mate, looks it over, tugs at the strings now and then as if to try them,
and, I suppose, has his own opinion about the work, but I have never
seen him actually lend a hand and bring a string or a hair. If I belonged
to our sentimental school of nature writers I might say that he is
too proud, that it is against the traditions of his race and family;
but probably the truth is that he doesn't know how; that the nest-building
instinct is less active in him than in his mate; that he is not impelled
by the same necessity.

It is easy to be seen how important it is that the nesting instinct should
be strong in the female, whether it is or not in the male. The male may
be cut off and yet the nest be built and the family reared.
Among the rodents I fancy the nest is always built by the female.

Whatever the explanation, the mother bird is really the head of the family;
she is the most active in nest-building, and in most cases in the care
of the young; and among birds of prey, as among insects, the female is the
larger and the more powerful.

The wood thrush whose nest-building I have just described, laid only one
egg, and an abnormal-looking egg at that--very long and both ends of
the same size. But to my surprise out of the abnormal-looking egg came
in due time a normal-looking chick which grew to birdhood without any
mishaps. The late, cold season and the consequent scarcity of food
was undoubtedly the cause of so small a family.

Another pair of wood thrushes built a nest on the low branch of a
maple by the roadside, where I had it under daily observation.

This nest presently held three eggs, two of which hatched in due time, and
for a few days the young seemed to prosper. Then one morning, I noticed
the mother bird sitting in a silent, meditative way on the edge of the
nest. As she made no move during the minute or two while I watched her,
I drew near to see what was the matter. I found one of the young
birds in a state of utter collapse; it was cold and all but lifeless.
The next morning I found the bird again sitting motionless on the
rim of the nest and gazing into it. I found one of the birds dead and
the other nearly so. What had brought about the disaster I could not
tell; no cause was apparent. I at first suspected vermin, but could
detect none. The silent, baffled look of the mother bird I shall not
soon forget. There was no demonstration of grief or alarm; only a
brooding, puzzled look.

I once witnessed similar behavior on the part of a pair of bluebirds that
were rearing a brood in a box on a grape post near my study. One day I
chanced to observe one of the parent birds at the entrance of the nest,
gazing long and intently in. In the course of the day I saw this act
several times, and in no case did the bird enter the box with food
as it had been doing. Then I investigated and found the nearly fledged
birds all dead. On removing them I found the nest infested with many dark,
tough-skinned, very active worms or grubs nearly an inch long, that
had apparently sucked the blood out of the bodies of the fledglings.
They were probably the larvæ of some species of beetle unknown to me.
The parent birds had looked on and seen their young destroyed, and made
no effort to free the nest of their enemy. Or probably they had not suspected
what was going on, or did not understand it if they beheld it. Their
instincts were not on the alert for an enemy so subtle, and one springing
up in the nest itself. Any visible danger from without alarmed them
instantly, but here was a new foe that doubtless they had never before
had to cope with.

The oriole in her nest-building seems more fickle than most other birds.
I have known orioles several times to begin a nest and then leave it and
go elsewhere. Last year one started a nest in an oak near my study, then
after a few days of hesitating labor left it and selected the
traditional site of her race, the pendent branch of an elm by the roadside.
This time she behaved like a wise bird and came back for some
of the material of the abandoned nest. She had attached a single piece
of twine to the oak branch, and this she could not leave behind;
twine was too useful and too hard to get. So I saw her tugging at
this string till she loosened it, then flew toward the elm with it trailing
in the air behind her. I could but smile at her thrift. The second nest
she completed and occupied and doubtless found her pendent-nest instinct
fully satisfied by the high swaying elm branch.

One of our prettiest nest-builders is the junco or snowbird; in fact, it
builds the prettiest nest to be found upon the ground, I think--more
massive and finely moulded and finished than that of the song sparrow.
I find it only in the Catskills, or on their borders, often in a mossy
bank by the roadside, in the woods, or on their threshold. With what delicate
and consummate art it is insinuated into the wild scene, like some
shy thing that grew there, visible, yet hidden by its perfect fitness
and harmony with its surroundings.

The mother bird darts out but a few yards from you as you drive or walk
along, but your eye is baffled for some moments before you have her
secret. Such a keen, feather-edged, not to say spiteful little body,
with the emphasis of those two pairs of white quills in her tail given
to every movement, and yet, a less crabbed, less hasty nest, softer and
more suggestive of shy sylvan ways, than is hers, would be hard to
find.

One day I was walking along the grassy borders of a beech and maple wood
with a friend when, as we came to a little low mound of moss and
grass, scarcely a foot high, I said, "This is just the spot for a junco's
nest," and as I stooped down to examine it, out flew the bird. I had divined
better than I knew. What a pretty secret that little footstool of moss
and grass-covered earth held! How exquisite the nest, how exquisite the
place, how choice and harmonious the whole scene! How could these eggs
long escape the prowling foxes, skunks, coons, the sharp-eyed crows, the
searching mice and squirrels? They did not escape; in a day or two they
were gone.

Another junco's nest beside a Catskill trout stream sticks in my memory.
It was in an open grassy place amid the trees and bushes near the
highway. There were ladies in our trouting party and I called them to
come and see the treasure I had found.

"Where is it?" one of them said, as she stopped and looked around
a few paces from me.

"It is within six feet of you," I replied. She looked about, incredulous,
as it seemed an unlikely place for a nest of any sort, so open was it, and
so easily swept by the first glance.

As she stepped along, perplexed, I said, "Now it is within one yard of
you." She thought I was joking; but stooping down, determined not
to be baffled, she espied it sheltered by a thin, mossy stone that
stood up seven or eight inches above the turf, tilted at an angle
of about that of one side of a house-roof.

Under this the nest was tucked, sheltered from the sun and rain, and
hidden from all but the sharpest eye.

X

A BREATH OF APRIL

I
It would not be easy to say which is our finest or most beautiful
wild flower, but certainly the most poetic and the best beloved is the
arbutus. So early, so lowly, so secretive there in the moss and dry
leaves, so fragrant, tinged with the hues of youth and health, so hardy
and homelike, it touches the heart as no other does.

April's flower offers the first honey to the bee and the first fragrance
to the breeze. Modest, exquisite, loving the evergreens, loving the
rocks, untamable, it is the very spirit and breath of the woods.
Trailing, creeping over the ground, hiding its beauty under withered
leaves, stiff and hard in foliage, but in flower like the cheek of
a maiden.

One may brush away the April snow and find this finer snow beneath it. Oh,
the arbutus days, what memories and longings they awaken! In this latitude
they can hardly be looked for before April, and some seasons not till
the latter days of the month.
The first real warmth, the first tender skies, the first fragrant
showers--the woods are flooded with sunlight, and the dry leaves and the
leaf-mould emit a pleasant odor. One kneels down or lies down beside a
patch of the trailing vine, he brushes away the leaves, he lifts up the
blossoming sprays and examines and admires them at leisure; some are
white, some are white and pink, a few are deep pink. It is enough to
bask there in the sunlight on the ground beside them, drinking in their
odor, feasting the eye on their tints and forms, hearing the April breezes
sigh and murmur in the pines or hemlocks near you, living in a present
fragrant with the memory of other days.

Lying there, half dreaming, half observing, if you are not in communion
with the very soul of spring, then there is a want of soul in you. You
may hear the first swallow twittering from the sky above you, or
the first mellow drum of the grouse come up from the woods below
or from the ridge opposite.

The bee is abroad in the air, finding her first honey in the flower by
your side and her first pollen in the pussy-willows by the watercourses
below you. The tender, plaintive love-note of the chickadee is heard
here and there in the woods. He utters it while busy on the catkins of the
poplars, from which he seems to be extracting some kind of food. Hawks are
screaming high in the air above the woods; the plow is just tasting the
first earth in the rye or corn stubble (and it tastes good). The earth
looks good, it smells good, it is good.

By the creek in the woods you hear the first water-thrush--a short,
bright, ringing, hurried song.

If you approach, the bird flies swiftly up or down the creek, uttering an
emphatic "chip, chip."
In wild, delicate beauty we have flowers that far surpass the arbutus:
the columbine, for instance, jetting out of a seam in a gray ledge of
rock, its many crimson and flame-colored flowers shaking in the breeze;
but it is mostly for the eye.

The spring-beauty, the painted trillium, the fringed polygala, the
showy lady's-slipper, are all more striking to look upon, but
they do not quite touch the heart; they lack the soul that perfume
suggests. Their charms do not abide with you as do those of the
arbutus.

II
These still, hazy, brooding mid-April mornings, when the farmer first starts
afield with his plow, when his boys gather the buckets in the
sugar-bush, when the high-hole calls long and loud through the
hazy distance, when the meadowlark sends up her clear, silvery shaft of
sound from the meadow, when the bush sparrow trills in the orchard,
when the soft maples look red against the wood, or their fallen bloom
flecks the drying mud in the road,--such mornings are about the most
exciting and suggestive of the whole year. How good the fields look, how
good the freshly turned earth looks!--one could almost eat it as
does the horse;--the stable manure just being drawn out and scattered
looks good and smells good; every farmer's house and barn looks inviting;
the children on the way to school with their dinner-pails in their
hands--how they open a door into the past for you!

Sometimes they have sprays of arbutus in their buttonholes, or bunches of
hepatica. The partridge is drumming in the woods, and the woodpeckers
are drumming on dry limbs.

The day is veiled, but we catch such glimpses through the veil.
The bees are getting pollen from the pussy-willows and soft maples, and
the first honey from the arbutus.

It is at this time that the fruit and seed catalogues are interesting
reading, and that the cuts of farm implements have a new fascination.
The soil calls to one. All over the country, people are responding
to the call, and are buying farms and moving upon them. My father
and mother moved upon their farm in the spring of 1828; I moved
here upon mine in March, 1874.
I see the farmers, now going along their stone fences and replacing
the stones that the frost or the sheep and cattle have thrown off,
and here and there laying up a bit of wall that has tumbled
down.
There is rare music now in the unmusical call of the ph[oe]be-bird--it
is so suggestive.
The drying road appeals to one as it never does at any other season.
When I was a farm-boy, it was about this time that I used to get
out of my boots for half an hour and let my bare feet feel the
ground beneath them once more. There was a smooth, dry, level place
in the road near home, and along this I used to run, and exult in
that sense of lightfootedness which is so keen at such times. What
a feeling of freedom, of emancipation, and of joy in the returning
spring I used to experience in those warm April twilights!
I think every man whose youth was spent on the farm, whatever his
life since, must have moments at this season when he longs to go
back to the soil. How its sounds, its odors, its occupations, its
associations, come back to him! Would he not like to return again
to help rake up the litter of straw and stalks about the barn, or
about the stack on the hill where the grass is starting? Would he
not like to help pick the stone from the meadow, or mend the brush
fence on the mountain where the sheep roam, or hunt up old Brindle's
calf in the woods, or gather oven-wood for his mother to start again
the big brick oven with its dozen loaves of rye bread, or see the
plow crowding the lingering snow-banks on the side-hill, or help
his father break and swingle and hatchel the flax in the barnyard?
When I see a farm advertised for rent or for sale in the spring, I
want to go at once and look it over. All the particulars interest
me--so many acres of meadow-land, so many of woodland, so many of
pasture--the garden, the orchard, the outbuildings, the springs,
the creek--I see them all, and am already half in possession.
Even Thoreau felt this attraction, and recorded in his Journal:
"I know of no more pleasing employment than to ride about the country
with a companion very early in the spring, looking at farms with a
view to purchasing, if not paying for them."
Blessed is the man who loves the soil!

XI
THE WOODCOCK'S EVENING HYMN
The twilight flight song of the woodcock is one of the most curious
and tantalizing yet interesting bird songs we have. I fancy that
the persons who hear and recognize it in the April or May twilight
are few and far between. I myself have heard it only on three
occasions--one season in late March, one season in April, and the
last time in the middle of May.It is not far from Maidstone.  But this is
easily disposed of.  Muggleton is described as an important corporate
town, with a Mayor, etc.  Further, the cricketing at Muggleton was of the
poorest sort.  There was an elderly gentleman playing who could not stop
the balls--a slim one was hit on the nose--they were a set of "duffers,"
in fact.  As for Dickens knowing nothing about cricket, as Mr. Lang
contends, I can say, that he was always interested in it.  I myself have
seen him sit the whole day in a marquee, during a match got up by himself
at Gads Hill, marking (or "notching") in the most admirable manner.
Anything he did or described, he did and described according to the best
fashion he could compass.

Wishing, however, to investigate this knotty question thoroughly, I
lately communicated with the Town Clerk of Maidstone, Mr. Herbert
Monckton, who was good enough to search the Books with reference to
certain queries which I furnished.  Dickens states of the mysterious and
unnamed Borough, that it had its Mayor, Burgesses, and Freemen--which at
once excludes Town Malling which the younger Charles Dickens had
selected.  The Clerk has found that, at the period in question, there
were 813 Freemen on the roll.  It has always been held to be "an ancient
and loyal Borough," but this, of course, most boroughs of its standing
would claim to be.  Boz speaks of innumerable Petitions to Parliament,
and Mr. Monckton tells me that he has found many petitions in the
Books--one in 1828 _against_ the Licensing Bill, which seems to prove
that Maidstone, like Muggleton, "mingled a zealous advocacy of Christian
principles with a devoted attachment to commercial rights."  Then as to
the description: Both Maidstone and Muggleton have an open square for the
market: there are also in both places in the square a fire office,
linendraper, corn factor, saddler, grocer, shoe-shop, but apparently no
distiller.  It was curious, certainly, that there should be an Inn with
so odd a sign as the Blue Lion in Maidstone--and also a post bearing this
sign, in front.  Then as to the cricket, the cricket field was in the
Meadow, Maidstone, not far from the High Street; while at Muggleton, we
are told that Mr. Pickwick's friends "had turned out of the main street
and were already within sight of the field of battle."

And here we may admire the wonderful walking powers that Boz allots to
his heroes--Tupman and Pickwick, who were elderly persons and stout
withal.  Fifteen miles to Muggleton--two miles further to Manor Farm--and
all done between eleven o'clock, and a period "late in the afternoon"--say
five o'clock.  At a later visit came the memorable five-and-twenty-mile
walk to get an appetite for dinner.  The truth was, such stretches were
as nothing to Boz himself.  Walking was his grand pastime and one
absolute necessity.  He tramped on with an amazing energy and vigour,
which, as I know from experience, it was impossible to match.  Sometimes
he walked the streets for nearly the whole night.  This personal element
helps to explain many things in "Pickwick" which contains the early life
of Boz.


CHAPTER VII.  GOSWELL STREET


A question that has often exercised ingenious folk is, why did Mr.
Pickwick choose to live in Goswell Street? rather, why did Boz select
such a quarter for him?  Of course, at that time, it was really a
"genteel" neighbourhood, as anyone can see who walks along the desolate
streets and terraces, the forlorn squares and enclosures that are close
by, and where the New River runs.  Nothing is more depressing than the
aspect of these fallen places; but, in Mr. Pickwick's time, they had not
been very long erected.  Indeed, this offers yet another department which
his wonderful Book suggests: that it is the best record of all the
changes that have taken place in London.  This Goswell Street tenancy
shows clearly that the neighbourhood was a desirable one for residents of
position.  Mr. Pickwick was a City man, and his club met in Huggin Lane,
in the City.  He generally put up, or, as Bob Sawyer had it, "hung out,"
at the "George and Vulture," also in the City.  One side of Goswell
Street, in those days--a road ascending to the old Angel Inn--faced, near
the top, a number of the pretentious squares and terraces I have been
describing.  That interesting old theatre, Sadler's Wells, was in the
rear, and the New River passed beneath it or beside it, and, quite
uncovered in those days, rippled along on its course from the country.

All the houses were private houses.  Some enthusiasts have actually
identified Mrs. Bardell's apartments--but without a particle of evidence.
Now it has become a busy thoroughfare, with a noisy tramway: nearly all
the houses have been turned into shops, and Mr. Pickwick could scarcely
recognize his old quarters.  The whole region bears a faded air.
Amateurs, who love exploring their London, will find entertainment in
wandering about Islington and the adjoining districts, experiencing quite
a new sensation and hardly realizing that they are so close to
Aldersgate.  The New River itself, which ends its course here, is a
pleasant attraction, with its great basin, and ancient offices by the
edge of the water.

Imitating Elia, I once set out from here, and followed its course and its
many windings far out into the country, taking up the journey on
successive days, going towards its source in Hertfordshire, and a most
pleasant, interesting voyage of discovery it was.  For it so winds and
bends, now passing through fields and demesnes, now skirting towns and
villages, that it is just as picturesque as any natural stream.  Such
being its attractions, Mr. Pickwick was virtually living in the country
or in the suburbs, and enjoying the fine, keen, inspiring air which the
jaded Londoner from lower districts may, even now, still inhale.  There
is no Goswell Street now, but Goswell _Road_--a very noisy, clattering
thoroughfare.

Another remark to be made is this:--how much do we owe to the vivifying
power of Boz's descriptions of these old Towns, Inns, and Streets?  The
ordinary provincial town--unsung and undescribed by him--remains what it
is and nothing more.  York and Manchester stir no memories, and are
unvisited by pilgrims, because _they are not in Pickwick_.  Boz seems to
have found the true _interpretation_ and inner meaning of each place, and
has actually preserved the tone and flavour that existed in his own time.
This continues even now.  As we stroll through Rochester or Ipswich, Bath
or Bury, Pickwick and his friends walk with us.  And, as if well
contented to rest under the spell, these antique towns have made no
effort at change, but remain much as they were.

And this prompts the question: _Where did Mrs. Cluppins live_?  At the
trial we learned that she was a friend and neighbour of Mrs. Bardell's,
one of her _commeres_.  She had "looked in" on the momentous morning,
having been out to purchase "kidney pertaties," yet, on their Hampstead
junketting, we find her coming with the Raddles, in their cab, all the
way from Lant Street, Borough.  She was clearly Mrs. Raddle's friend and
neighbour.  Perhaps she had moved, though this is not likely.  The
household gods of such, like Elia's, strike a deep root.

In his descriptions of the Bardell party's journey to Hampstead, which
ended so disastrously, the art of Boz is shown as usual by supplying the
notion of movement--he seems to take us along up the northern heights--we
feel the pleasurable anticipations of a party of pleasure for the lower
middle class.  From the lower end of Goswell Street--where Mr. Pickwick's
lodgings must have been, for, in the upper part, there are no houses
opposite for Mrs. Raddle to call at--it must have been a long drive for
the party.  I assume they must have made for Kentish Town, and toiled up
Haverstock Hill at a walk, for the coach was heavily laden enough.
Pleasant Hampstead!  One is always glad to find Boz associating his
humour with places that we are deeply interested in.  The Hampstead of
this hour, though changed enough, may remind us very fairly of Boz's
time.  It has still the attractions of the old-fashioned, red-brick
houses, and terraces, the mixture of green, and the charming, even
seductive, heath.  "The Spaniards" at Hampstead--Boz calls it "_The_
Spaniard"--is scarcely altered from the day of the Bardell visit, and is
as picturesque as ever with its Tea Gardens and Bowers.  I never pass it
without seeming to see Jackson's hackney-coach waiting and the Sheriff's
man at the gate taking his drink.  The other Inn, also bound up with
memories of Boz, "Jack Straw's Castle," also stands, but one reads with
alarm on this day of grace (June 12th, 1898):--

   There are few Londoners who will not grieve to hear that the
   well-known inn on the Spaniards Road, "Jack Straw's Castle," famous as
   the rendezvous of authors, artists, statesmen, and many a celebrity of
   old days, is going the way of other ancient buildings.  The low rooms
   and quaint interior of the hostel are now being entirely transformed
   and modernised.  The only concession made to the prejudices of the old
   frequenters of the inn is that the outer face is to be preserved
   intact.  To the passer by, no great change will perhaps be apparent;
   but within, the charm of the place will have vanished entirely.  A
   spacious saloon bar flooded with glaring light, with modern furniture
   and appliances, is to take the place of the old rooms, coffee-room,
   billiard-room, and bar.  In fact, it is to become a modern hotel.  The
   change is quite enough to make the shade of Dickens arise.  As John
   Forster has told us, the great novelist loved this old chop-house,
   and, after a ramble on the Heath, often adjourned here for a good,
   wholesome dinner.


CHAPTER VIII.  MARY HOGARTH


This young girl--to whom a touching interest attached from her being so
prematurely cut off--was a most interesting creature, one of three
sisters, daughters of Mr. George Hogarth, a Writer to the Signet, who is
a sort of link between Scott and Dickens.  For he had acted as the
former's man of business in the Ballantyne disputes, and must have
prompted Dickens in the article that he wrote on that thorny subject.  He
was a good musician and a writer in the magazines.  We find his work in
the old "Monthly Magazine" where Dickens made his _debut_; and when Boz
was installed as editor of "Bentley's," we find him admitting much of his
father-in-law's writing.  His "Memoirs of the Opera" are well-known.
There is a charming outline sketch of Maclise's, showing the profiles of
two of the sisters with Dickens, all three of the most refined and
interesting cast--but Boz's face is certainly the handsomest of the
three.  He must have been a most attractive young man--something of the
pattern of his own Nicholas Nickleby.

One of the most interesting features of the episode is the reference the
author was constantly making to this bereavement.  In the rollicking
"Pickwick," any serious introduction of such a topic would have been out
of place: though I fancy a little paragraph in the account of the Manor
Farm Christmas festivities is connected with it.  But about the same
time, or rather, some six months later, he was busy with his "Oliver
Twist," and it seems certain that Rose Maylie was drawn from this
sympathetic creature, for there is a feeling and a passionate grief
displayed that could only be caused by the loss of a person that he had
known and loved.  Here is his description of Rose:--"The younger lady was
in the lovely bloom and springtime of womanhood, at that age when, if
ever angels be for God's good purposes enthroned in mortal forms, they
may be without impiety supposed to abide in such forms as hers.  She was
not _past seventeen_.  Cast in so slight and exquisite a mould; so mild
and gentle; so pure and beautiful; that earth seemed not her element, nor
its rough creatures her fit companions."

We may compare with this the touching inscription placed by Dickens on
her tomb in Kensal Green: "Young, beautiful and good, God, in His mercy,
numbered her among His angels at the early age of seventeen."  He had
long planned that he should be laid beside her, but on Mrs. Hogarth's
death, some five years later, he had to resign his place to her.  This
was a renewal of the old grief.  The epitaph nearly seems the epitome of
all that he says of Rose Maylie.

"The very intelligence that shone in her deep blue eye, and was stamped
upon her noble head, seemed scarcely of her age, or of the world; and yet
the changing expression of sweetness and good humour, the thousand lights
that played upon the face and left no shadow there; above all, the smile,
the cheerful, happy smile, were for Home, and fireside peace and
happiness."  She is then described as "playfully putting back her hair,
which was simply braided on her forehead; and threw into her beaming look
such an expression of affection and artless loveliness that blessed
spirits might have smiled to look upon her."

The earnestness, the feeling of sincerity thrown into this
description--the tone of reality--leave a conviction that this must have
been drawn from a person who had lived and in whom the writer had the
deepest interest.  Further, it is clearly the description of a person who
had passed away: of one who was no longer with him. {66}  "She was at the
theatre with us on Saturday night, well and happy, and expired in my arms
a few hours afterwards."  So he wrote to Mr. Cox.

At the end, he returns to the subject, and retouches the picture:

   "I would show Rose Maylie in all the bloom and grace of early
   womanhood, shedding on her secluded path in life the soft and gentle
   light that fell on all who trod it with her and shone into their
   hearts; I would paint her _the life and joy of the fireside circle_,
   and the lively summer group; I would follow her through the sultry
   fields at noon, and hear the low tones of her sweet voice in the
   moonlit evening walk; I would watch her in all her goodness and
   charity abroad, and the untiring discharge of domestic duties at home;
   I would summon before me again those joyous little faces that
   clustered round her knee; I would recall the tone of that clear laugh,
   and conjure up that sympathizing tear that glistened in the soft, blue
   eye.  These, and a thousand looks and smiles, and turns of thought and
   speech, I would fain recall them, every one."

Again, it is clear that all this is personal, and written of one that he
knew and deeply loved.

In "Nickleby," there is yet another allusion to this sad subject--it is
suggested by Kate's grief for Smike:

   "It is an exquisite and beautiful thing in our nature that, when the
   heart is softened and touched by some tranquil happiness or
   affectionate feeling, the memory of the dead comes over it most
   powerfully and irresistibly.  It would almost seem as though our
   better thoughts and sympathies were charms in virtue of which the soul
   is enabled to hold some vague and mysterious intercourse with the
   spirits of those whom we dearly loved in life.  Alas! how often and
   how long may these patient angels hover above us, watching for the
   spell which is so seldom uttered, and so soon forgotten."

This is no artificial utterance.  He had clearly interrupted himself to
indulge in this sad retrospect.  He then points a moral from Mrs.
Nickleby, who, he says, could not conceive the idea of anyone dwelling on
such thoughts in secret.  I have always had a notion that this worthy
lady's incongruities and rambling methods were suggested by one of his
own household, whose imperfection was found to be a complete lack of
sympathy with him in all his feelings.

The devotion of Oliver Twist to Rose, it is not fanciful to say, was
intended to symbolise his own to Mary.  We can recall the passionate,
agitated excitement with which Rose's illness is described--the hanging
on the doctor's sentence, &c.--a reminiscence certainly, and we have only
to look at the sketch by Cruikshank of his friend (given in my
"_Bozland_") to recognise the likeness to Oliver.  Oliver's sufferings
were his own.

How tremendous the blow of her death must have been to the successful
writer may be conceived when he did not scruple to interrupt the book and
cast it aside altogether from sheer incapacity to write a line.  The June
number did not appear.  No one can imagine the inconvenience, the loss,
the enormous risks that were run by taking this step--the horror and
consternation of the publishers and all concerned.  It proved how
indifferent he had become to his prospects and prosperity when he could
hazard such a thing.  The first of the month came round, but no
"Pickwick."  It was a public catastrophe.  When he was able to resume his
story, he found it necessary to issue an explanation in the form of an
address. {68}

   186 Strand,
   June 30th, 1837.

   The author is desirous to take the opportunity afforded him by the
   resumption of his work to state, once again, what he thought had been
   stated sufficiently emphatically before, namely, that its publication
   was interrupted by a severe domestic affliction of no ordinary kind;
   that this was the sole cause of the non-appearance of the present
   number in its usual course; that, hereafter, it will continue to be
   published with its accustomed regularity.  However superfluous this
   _second notice_ may appear to many, it is rendered necessary by
   various idle speculations and absurdities which have been
   industriously propagated during the past month and which have reached
   the author's ears from many quarters, and have grieved him
   exceedingly.  By one set of intimate acquaintances, especially well-
   informed, he has been killed outright; by another, driven mad; by a
   third, imprisoned for debt; by a fourth, left per steamer for the
   United States; by a fifth, rendered incapable of mental exertion for
   evermore; by all, in short, represented as doing anything but seeking
   by a few weeks' retirement, the restoration of cheerfulness and peace,
   of which a sad bereavement has necessarily deprived him.


CHAPTER IX.  THE PICKWICK CLUB


This was a common form of social meeting, and we find in the memoirs of
Adolphus and John Taylor and Frederick Reynolds descriptions of the "Keep
the Line," "The Finish," and other oddly-named societies.  The cheerful
glass was the chief object.  Mr. Lowten's Club, "The Magpie and Stump,"
in Clare Market, supplies a specimen of a lower class club.  "Veels
vithin veels," as Sam would say.

In his speech at Dulwich, at the close of the book, Mr. Pickwick spoke
rather pathetically of the closing of his wanderings.  "I shall never
forget having devoted the greater part of two years to mixing with
different varieties and shades of human character, frivolous as my
pursuit of novelty may have appeared to many."  He spoke of the club
also, to which "he had communicated both personally and by letter,"
acquainting them with his intention of withdrawing from public life to
the country.  He added that "during our long absence it had suffered much
from internal dissensions," and this, with other reasons, had obliged him
to dissolve it.  This "absence," both as planned and carried out, was
merely occasional.  Mr. Pickwick and his friends were rarely, and only
now and then, absent from town, going away for short spells, save, of
course, the enforced absence in the Fleet Prison and the months or weeks
(as it may be) in Bath.  "The George and Vulture" was not far from Huggin
Lane, so Mr. Pickwick must have been constantly at the Club, or _could_
have been had he chosen to go there.  All this notion of severance,
therefore, was somewhat sentimental.

But the "dissensions" the President spoke of were natural enough.  He was
the founder and mainstay of the association--probably paid its expenses.
The whole object of the institution, it may be suspected, was to exalt
the founder.  In such a state of things, it was natural that there should
be an opposition, or discontented party, headed by "that Blotton."  When
Blotton was got rid of, his friends would think that he had been badly
treated and take advantage of the occasional absences of the chief to
foment revolt.  Then Blotton was expelled, assuredly unfairly, for he
merely took the opposite view on the Cobham stone, and he might have left
some who belonged to his faction and who thought he had been harshly
dealt with.  Mr. Pickwick, in fact, merely returned from his agreeable
junketting to have this gentleman expelled.  Despotism of this sort
always leads to discontent and parties--hence the "dissensions."  Mr.
Pickwick, from his treatment of Blotton, must have been a Tory of the old
Eldon school.  Here was his blemish.  He had no toleration for others,
and had an undue idea of his own position.  We can trace the whole thing
perfectly.  He was a successful man of business--an export merchant
apparently--being connected with an agent at Liverpool whom he had
"obliged."  Round such a man who was good-natured and philanthropic would
gather flatterers and toadies; hence the suggestion to found a club with
his own name and "button."  Of this he could be "Boss," and he was
listened to and courted.  It was like the devotion of satellites to the
late Mr. Gladstone.  We can see all this in the picture of the club at
the beginning, where, with the exception of the four legitimate
Pickwickians, all seem rather of the tradesman class, and are vulgar
types enough.  In such surroundings, Mr. Pickwick could "rule the roast"
and grow despotic and even arrogant.

Blotton, however, who seems to have been an independent sort of fellow,
could not submit to this, was of the Opposition, and, no doubt, a thorn
in Mr. Pickwick's side.  And here is yet another point of the likeness to
the Johnsonian coterie.  In "The Club," Hawkins--Sir John of that ilk--was
uncongenial--"a detestable fellow," Bozzy calls him--objecting,
quarrelling, and, at last, on one occasion was so rude that he had to
withdraw.  Now, that this offence was rankling is evident, and it
explains the fracas which took place at the opening.  Blotton looked on
Mr. Pickwick's travelling as pure humbug.  The idea of his contributing
anything useful or instructive in his so-called reports seemed nonsense.
Further, was it not something of a job?  Pickwick was taking three of his
own special "creatures" with him--Winkle, to whom he had been appointed
governor; Snodgrass, who was his ward; and Tupman, who was his butt and
toady.  They were the _gentlemen_ of the club.  None of the outsiders
were chosen.  From Blotton's behaviour, too, on the Cobham business, it
is clear he thought Mr. Pickwick's scientific researches were also
"humbug."  A paper by that gentleman had just been read--"The tracing of
the source of the ponds at Hampstead" and "Some observations on the
theory of tittlebats."  There was somewhat too much of this "bossing."
The whole report read by the secretary was full of gross flatteries.  They
had "just heard read with feelings of unmingled satisfaction and
unqualified approval," &c., "from which advantages must accrue to the
cause of science"--cause of rubbish!  Then, it added, obsequiously,
something about "the _inestimable_ benefits from carrying the
speculations of that _learned_ man" &c.  Mr. Pickwick, in his speech, was
certainly self-laudatory and provocative.  He talked of his pride in
promoting the Tittlebatian theory, and "let _his enemies make the most of
it_."  This was marked enough, and no doubt caused looks at Blotton.  Then
he began to puff his new enterprise at "a service of some danger."

There were, were there not, upsets of coaches "in all directions," horses
bolting--boats overturning, and boilers bursting?  Now, Blotton--after
all the humbug that had gone before, and particularly after a provocative
reference to himself--could not stand this, and, amid the obsequious
cries and "cheers," said, boldly, "No!"  (A Voice: "No!")  That is,
signifying there were no such dangers.  The fury of the orator on "the
Windsor chair," was quite Gladstonian.  "No!" he cried; on which the
cheers of his followers broke out.  "Who was it that cried No?"  Then he
proceeded to imagine it came from some "vain and disappointed man--he
wouldn't say haberdasher."

To the Pickwick Club there was a Vice-President, named Smiggers--Joseph
Smiggers, Esq., P.V.P.M.P.C., that is, Perpetual Vice-President and
Member of the Pickwick Club.  Smiggers was, of course, supposed to be
"Pickwick's creature," or he would not have been there.  He was a tall,
corpulent man, with a soft face--as we see him in his picture.  As Mr.
Pickwick speaks, it is remarkable that both Vice-President and
Secretary--the two officers--have each one arm raised as if in ecstatic
rapture--clear proof of their subservience to Pickwick.  On Smiggers'
right is a "doddering" old fellow of between seventy and eighty--clearly
a "nullity"--on his left, another member nearly as old, but with a
glimmer of intelligence.  Down the side of the table, facing the orator,
are some odd faces--one clearly a Jew; one for whom the present Mr.
Edward Terry might have sat.  Blotton is at the bottom, half turned away
in disgust.  His neighbour looks at him with wonder, as who should say,
"How can you be so insensible?"  Odd to say--and significant, too--Blotton
has brought into the club his _dog_, a ferocious looking "bull," which
sits at his feet under the table.  We should say, on the whole, that
Blotton could only count on--and that, with but a limited sympathy--the
Terry-faced and Jew-faced men--if he _could_ count on them.  The
Secretary was like a clerk--a perky fellow--and had a pen behind his ear;
probably in some Bank or Counting House, so strong is habit.  One member
of the Club alone is invisible--the one beyond Tupman--all that is seen
of him is a hand holding a tumbler as if about to drink.  The Dodderer is
applauding; so are the Jew, Blotton and Tupman; so is the round-faced
man, just beyond the invisible one.

Mr. Pickwick and his three friends being removed or absent, and Blotton
expelled, out of the fourteen members there were left but nine, whereof
we reckon four or five as Pickwickians and the rest as _Blottonites_.

And how easily can we imagine the acrimonious discussions that went on!

"This 'ere Pickwick, who was always making the club a hend to his own
glorification, had gone off on his touring to get more grist for his
mill."  It was really, a "mutual admiration society," and as for the
reports, notes, &c., he was sending back "they 'ad 'ad enough of it."  The
club didn't meet to be listening to long-winded yarns to be read out by
their worthy secretary, but for a glass and social intercourse.  As for
the "travels and preambulations," what were they more than visits to
genteel 'ouses where Pickwick was "showing oft" at their expense?  Then
where were the "Sportin' transactions?"  The whole thing was "rot."  Then
the Cobham stone business, at which the whole town was laughing, and
which their worthy friend Blotton had exposed.  Blotton was the only long-
headed, creditable man they had.  _He_ ought to have been their
president.  But he had been turned out by the "_lick-spittles_" of the
society.


CHAPTER X.  ROADSIDE INNS


I.--The Bell at Berkeley Heath


In the animated journey, from Bristol to Birmingham, the travellers
stopped at various posting-houses where the mercurial Sawyer would insist
on getting down to lunch, dine, or otherwise refresh--his friends being
always ready to comply after a little decent hesitation.  It was thus
that they drew up at The Bell at Berkeley Heath, which our writer
presently sketches.  It will be seen there is more of the drink at the
Bell than of the Bell itself.  It is, indeed, no more than _coecum
nomen_--much as though we read the name at the end of "Bradshaw"--yet,
somehow, from the life and movement of the journey, it offers a sort of
attraction: it seems familiar, and we have an interest in it.  The Bell
now "goes on," as the proprietor tells me.  There are travellers who come
there and drink Boz's health in the snug parlour.  It is, in fact, a
Pickwickian Inn, and is drawn within the glamour of the legend, and, what
a marvel! the thing is done by the magic of those three or four lines.
"The Bell," says Mrs. Hooper, "lies back on the main road from Bristol to
Gloucester, and is just nineteen miles from Bristol.  It is a rambling
old house and a good deal dilapidated, and of good age."

With this meagre record it yet offers such Pickwickian interest that, not
many months ago, a photograph was taken of it which was engraved for the
_Daily Graphic_.  There is no Mr. Pickwick's room to be shown, as
undoubtedly there _would_ be had that gentleman only stayed the night
there; but he only lunched and then went forward.  There is a mistiness
as to whether the Pickwickians sat in the public coffee-room or had a
private "settin'-room."  It was to a certainty the coffee-room, as they
only stayed a short time.  So the proprietor, with a safe conscience,
might exhibit "the room where Mr. Pickwick lunched."  On the face is
imbedded a tablet bearing the date 1729, and there is an ancient farmer
close by who was born in "The Bell" in the year 1820.  If we lend
ourselves properly to the delusion, he might recall Mr. Pickwick's chaise
drawing up full sixty years ago.  "Ay, I mind it well.  I were joost then
fifteen.  A stoutish gent in gaiters--might 'ave been a bishop--and sich
a lively young chap as wos with him, full o' spirits, chucking a' the
gurls under the chins.  And their sarvant!  O _he_ were one.  Sam, he
were caa'd--I moind that--Sam Summut.  And they caa'd for the best o'
everythin', and took away wi' them a lot, Madeary, and wot not," and so
on.


II.--The Greyhound, Dulwich


Mr. Pickwick, as we know, at the close of his wanderings retired to this
tranquil and pleasant suburb--then much more retired than it is now.  In
accordance with his habit of enshrining his own personal sympathies in
his writing, Boz was, as it were, conveying that it was such a
sequestered spot as he himself would choose under similar conditions.
Last year (1898), the interesting old road-side Inn, The Greyhound, was
levelled--an Inn to which Mr. Pickwick must have found his way in the
dull evening to drink "cold Punch" or preside at the club which he most
certainly--if we know him well--must have founded.  A wealthy gentleman
of social tastes, and with a love for tavern life, would have no
difficulty in establishing a new Pickwick Club.

At the Greyhound, nigh a century ago, there was actually a club which
entertained Tom Campbell, Mark Lemon, Byron's tutor, and many more.  Boz
himself, we are told, used to find his way there with Theodore Hook,
Moore, and others.  Boz, therefore, must have regarded this place with
much favour, owing to his own experiences of it--and to have selected it
for his hero's tranquil old age shows how high a place it had in his
memory.  The description is charming and brings this sylvan retreat to
which we have walked many a time perfectly before us.

This taste for surrounding himself with persons of lower degree--such as
were the rank and file--was curiously enough shared by Mr. Pickwick's
predecessor, Dr. Johnson, who, when he found the Literary Club somewhat
too much of a republic, and getting "out of hand," established a social
meeting at the Essex Head Club--in the street of that name, off the
Strand--composed in the main of respectable tradesmen, who would listen
obsequiously.  Thus, it may be repeated, does the same sort of character
develop invariably on the same lines, and thus did Mr. Pickwick
unconsciously follow in the footsteps of the "great Lexicographer."


III.--Grimaldi the Younger


As I was the first to point out, the powerful "Stroller's Tale" of which
Boz himself thought so highly, was founded on the career of the
unfortunate son of the great Grimaldi.  The story is related by "Dismal
Jemmy," the actor, who, in the tale itself, is called Hutley, and it
corresponds in all its details with Grimaldi's history.  He died in
September, 1832, nearly four years before Pickwick was thought of, but
Boz had learned the incident long before the Grimaldi MSS. were given him
to edit, and I am inclined to think he must have learned them from his
friend Harley who was intimate with the Grimaldis.  In the memoirs it is
stated that Gledinning, a Printer, was sent by the father to his son's
dying bed, and he was probably the Hutley of the Stroller's Tale, and,
perhaps, the person who brought old Grimaldi the news of his death.  We
are told in the "Tale" that he had an engagement "at one of the Theatres
on the Surrey side of the water," and in the memoirs we find that he was
offered "an engagement for the Christmas at the Coburg."  There his death
is described:--"He rose in bed, drew up his withered limbs--he was
acting--he was at the Theatre.  He then sang some roaring song.  The
walls were alive with reptiles, frightful figures flitted to and fro . . .
His eyes shone with a lustre frightful to behold, the lips were
parched and cracked, the dry, hard skin glowed with a burning heat, and
there was an almost unearthly air of wild anxiety in the man's face."
Hutley also describes how he had to hold him down in his bed.  Compare
with this the account in the memoirs--"his body was covered with a
fearful inflammation--he died in a state of wild and furious madness,
rising from his bed, dressing himself in stage costume to act snatches of
the parts, and requiring to be held down to die by strong manual force."
This dreadful scene took place at a public house in Pitt Street, out of
Tottenham Court Road.

"The man I speak of," says Boz in the story, "was a low, pantomime actor
and an habitual drunkard.  In his better days he had been in the receipt
of a good salary.  His besetting sin gained so fast on him that it was
found impossible to employ him in the situations in which he really was
useful."  In the "memoirs" this is more than supported: "The man who
might have earned with ease and comfort from six to seven hundred a year,
was reduced to such a dreadful state of destitution and filth . . .  In
fact, at one time, it was thought he might have succeeded his father."

It is quite plain, therefore, that Boz was recalling this tragic episode.
Boz remarks that pantomime actors--clowns and others "either die early
or, by unnaturally taxing their bodily energies, lose prematurely their
physical powers."  This was what occurred to Grimaldi, the father, whose
curious decay he was to describe later in the memoirs.  It may be added
that there is an Alderman Harmer, Hatton Garden, mentioned in the
memoirs, with whom Grimaldi _pere_ had some dealings; and, long after,
this name was introduced by Boz into "Our Mutual Friend."


CHAPTER XI.  MR. PICKWICK'S PROTOTYPE


We had a narrow escape of losing our Pickwick and his familiar type.  We
dine at five, and madam wants us to be punctual. I will let you know
what will be done with that woman, and also with the patient.
Maybe it will be possible to leave somebody with him."
Having taken leave of the general, Nekhludoff drove to the postoffice.
Receiving his mail, he walked up to a wooden bench, on which a soldier was
sitting, probably waiting for something; he sat down beside him, and started
to look through the letters. Among them he found a registered
letter in a beautiful, large envelope, with a large seal of red wax on
it. He tore open the envelope, and, seeing a letter from Selenin with
some official document, he felt the blood mounting to his cheeks, and his
heart grow weak. This document was the decision concerning Katiousha's
trial. What was it? Was it possible that it contained a refusal?
Nekhludoff hastily ran over the letter, written in small, hardly legible,
broken handwriting, and breathed freely. The decision was a favorable
one.

"Dear friend," wrote Selenin, "our last conversation made a strong
impression upon me. You were right concerning Maslova. I have looked
through the accusation. This could be corrected only through the Commission
for Petitions, to which you sent your petition. They let me have a copy
of the pardon, and here I send it to you, to the address which the
Countess Catherine Ivanovna gave me. I press your hand in
friendship."

The news was pleasant and important. All that Nekhludoff could wish for
Katiousha and himself was realized. True, those changes in his
life changed his relations to her. But now, he thought, all that was most
important was to see her as quick as possible and bring her the good
news of her freedom. He thought that the copy he had in his hand was
sufficient for that. So he bade the cabman drive at once to the
prison.

The superintendent of the prison told him that he could not admit him
without a permit from the general. The copy of the petition from their
majesty's bureau also did not prevail with the superintendent. He positively
refused admittance. He also refused to admit him to see Kryltzoff.

CHAPTER VIII.

After the disappointment at the prison, Nekhludoff drove down to the
Governor's Bureau to find out whether they had received there
any news concerning the pardon of Maslova. There was no news there, so
he drove back to his hotel, and wrote at once to the lawyer and to
Selenin concerning it. Having finished the letters, he glanced at his
watch; it was already time to go to the general.

On the way he thought again of how he might hand over the pardon to
Katiousha; of the place she would be sent to, and how he would
live with her.

At dinner in the general's house all were not only very
friendly to Nekhludoff, but, as it seemed, very favorably inclined to
him, as he was a new, interesting personality. The general, who came in
to dinner with a white cross on his breast, greeted Nekhludoff like an
old friend. On the general's inquiry as to what he had done since
he saw him in the morning, Nekhludoff answered that he had been at
the postoffice, that he had found out the facts concerning the pardoning
of the person they were talking of in the morning, and he asked permission
to visit her.

The general seemed displeased, began to frown and said nothing.

"Will you have some whisky?" he said in French to the Englishman who
had walked up to him. The Englishman took some, and related that he had
been to see the cathedral of the city, and the factory, and expressed the
desire to see the great jail in which criminals were confined on
their way to Siberia.

"This idea is excellent!" exclaimed the general, turning to Nekhludoff.
"You may go together. Give them a pass!" he added, turning to his
lieutenant.

"What time do you wish to go?" Nekhludoff asked the Englishman.

"I prefer to visit prisons in the evening," the Englishman replied.
"All are then at home, and there are no preparations."
After dinner, Nekhludoff followed her into the ante-chamber, where the
Englishman was already waiting for him to visit the prison, as they had
agreed. Having taken leave of the whole family, he walked out, followed
by the Englishman.

The sombre looking prison, the soldier on guard, the lantern behind the
gate, notwithstanding the pure white layer of snow which had covered
everything--the sidewalk, the roof and the walls--made a gloomy impression.
The proud looking superintendent, walking out to the gate and glancing at
Nekhludoff's pass in the light of the lantern, shrugged his broad
shoulders, but obeyed the order and invited the visitors to follow him.
He first led them to the yard, and then to a door on the right
hand and up the stairs leading to the office.

Offering them seats, he asked them in what way he could serve them, and
learning from Nekhludoff that he wished to see Maslova, he sent
the jailer for her and prepared himself to answer the questions
which the Englishman wished to ask him, before going to the cell.

Nekhludoff translated the Englishman's questions. While they were conversing
they heard approaching footsteps, the door opened and the jailer entered,
followed by Katiousha in her prison garb, with a scarf tied around her
head.

Nekhludoff rose and made a few steps toward her. She said nothing, but
her excited expression surprised him. Her face was lit up with a wonderful
decision. He had never seen her look like that. Now the blood rushed to
her face, and now she turned pale; now her fingers twisted
convulsively the edges of her jacket, now she looked at him, and
now she dropped her eyes.

"You know what I called you for?" asked Nekhludoff.

"Yes, he told me. But now I am decided. I will ask permission to go
with Vladimir Ivanovitch." She said this quickly, as if she had made up
her mind before what to say.

"How with Vladimir Ivanovitch?" asked Nekhludoff. But she interrupted
him.

"But if he wants me to live with him?" Here she stopped in fear, and added,
"I mean to stay with him. I could expect nothing better, and perhaps
I may be useful to him and others. What difference does it make to me?"

One of the two things had happened--either she had fallen in love with
Simonson and did not wish his sacrifice, which weighed so heavily on
him, or she was still in love with Nekhludoff and renounced him for his
own good, burning all bridges behind her, and throwing her fortunes
in the same scale with those of Simonson.

Nekhludoff understood it, and felt ashamed.

"If you are in love with him," he said.

"I never knew such people, you know. It is impossible not to love them.
And Vladimir is entirely unlike any person I have ever known."
"Yes, certainly," said Nekhludoff. "He is an excellent man, and I think----"

Here she interrupted him, as if she were afraid that he would speak too
much, or she would not say everything.

"You will forgive me for doing that which you did not wish. You, too, must
love."
She said the very thing that he had just said to himself.

But now he was no longer thinking so, but felt altogether different.
He felt not only shame, but pity.

"Is it possible that all is at an end between us?"

he said.

"Yes, it looks like it," she answered, with a strange smile.

"But nevertheless I would like to be useful to you."
"To us," she said, glancing at Nekhludoff. "We don't need anything.
I am very much obliged to you.

If it were not for you"--she wished to say something, but her voice began
to tremble.

"I don't know which of us is under greater obligation to the other.
God will settle our accounts," said Nekhludoff.

"Yes, God will settle them," she whispered.

"Are you ready?" asked the Englishman.

"Directly," answered Nekhludoff, and then he inquired of her what she
knew of Kryltzoff.

She quieted down and calmly told him:
"Kryltzoff became very weak on the road and was taken to the
hospital.

Maria Pablovna wanted to become a nurse, but there is no answer yet."
"Well, may I go?" she asked, noticing the Englishman who was waiting for
him.

"I am not yet taking leave of you," said Nekhludoff, holding out his hand
to her.

"Pardon me," she said in a low tone.

Their eyes met, and in that strange, stern look, and in that pitiful
smile, with which she said not "good-by," but "pardon me,"
Nekhludoff understood, that of the two suppositions concerning her decision
the latter was the right one. She still loved him and thought she
would mar his life by a union with him, and would free him by
living with Simonson.

She pressed his hand, turned quickly, and left the room.

CHAPTER IX.

Passing through the hall and the ill-smelling corridors, the superintendent
passed into the first building of the prison in which those condemned
to hard labor were confined.

Entering the first room in that building they found the prisoners stretched
on their berths, which occupied the middle of the room. Hearing the
visitors enter they all jumped down, and, clinking their chains,
placed themselves beside their berths, while their half-shaven heads
were distinctly set off against the gloom of the prison.

Only two of the prisoners remained at their places. One of them was a
young man whose face was evidently heated with fever; the other was an
old man, who never left off groaning.

The Englishman asked whether the young man had been sick for a long time.
The superintendent replied that he had been taken sick that very same
morning, that the old man had had convulsions for a long time,
and that they kept him in prison because there was no place for him in the
hospital.

The Englishman shook his head discontentedly, said that he would like
to say a few words to the prisoners, and asked Nekhludoff to translate
his remarks. It turned out that, besides the aim of his journey,
which was the description of the exile system--he had another one--the
preaching of the gospel, of salvation through faith.

"Tell them that Christ pitied and loved them," he said to Nekhludoff,
"and that He died for them. He who will believe in Him will be
saved."
While he was saying this, all the prisoners were standing erect
with their hands by their sides.

"Tell them," continued the Englishman, "that all I said will be
found in this book.

Are there any among them who can read?" It turned out that there were
more than twenty who could.

The Englishman took out a few leather-bound Bibles from his traveling
bag, and soon a number of muscular hands, terminating in long black
nails, were stretched out toward him, pushing each other aside in order
to reach the Testaments. He left two Testaments in this room, and went
to the next one.

There the same thing occurred. There prevailed the same dampness and
ill-smells. But in this room, between the windows, an image of the Virgin,
before which a small lamp burned dimly, was hung up. To the left side
of the door stood the large vat. Here the prisoners were stretched out
on their berths, and in the same way they rose and placed themselves in
a row. Three of them remained in their places.
Two of these three lifted themselves and sat up, but the third one remained
stretched out, and did not even look at the visitors. These latter ones
were sick. The Englishman addressed them in the same manner, and left
two Testaments.

From the cells in which those condemned to hard labor were imprisoned,
they passed over to the cells of the exiles, and finally those in which
the relatives who escorted the prisoners to Siberia were awaiting the day
appointed to start hence.

Everywhere the same cold, hungry, idling, sickly, degraded, brutalized
human beings could be seen.

The Englishman distributed his Bibles, and, being tired out, he walked
through the rooms saying "All right" to whatever the superintendent
told him concerning the prisons.

They went out into the corridor.
The Englishman, pointing to an open door, asked what that room was
for.

"This is the prison morgue."
"Oh!" exclaimed the Englishman, and he expressed a desire to
enter.
This room was an ordinary room. A small lamp, fastened to the wall,
lit up the four bodies which were stretched on berths, with their
heads toward the wall and the feet protruding toward the door. The
first body, in a plain shirt, was that of a tall young man, with a
small, pointed beard and half-shaven head. The corpse was already
chilled, and its blue hands were folded over the breast. Beside
him, in a white dress and jacket, lay a bare-footed old woman, with
thin hair and wrinkled, yellowish face. Beside this old woman lay
a corpse, attired in blue.
This color recalled something in Nekhludoff's memory.
"And who is this third one?" he asked, mistrusting his own
eyesight.
"This one is a gentleman who was sent hither from the hospital,"
replied the superintendent.
Nekhludoff walked up to the body and touched the icy cold feet of
Kryltzoff.

CHAPTER X.
Nekhludoff, after parting with the Englishman, went straight to his
hotel, and walked about his room for a long time. The affair with
Katiousha was at an end. There was something ugly in the very memory
of it. But it was not that which grieved him. Some other affair of
his was yet unsettled--an affair which tortured him and required
his attention. In his imagination rose the gloomy scenes of the
hundreds and thousands of human beings pent up in the pestiferous
air. The laughter of the prisoners resounded in his ears. He saw
again among the dead bodies the beautiful, angry, waxen face of the
dead Kryltzoff; and the question whether he was mad, or all those
who commit those evils and think themselves wise were mad, bore in
upon his mind with renewed power, and he found no answer to it. The
principal difficulty consisted in finding an answer to the principal
question, which was: What should be done with those who became
brutalized in the struggle for life?
When he became tired walking about the room he sat down on the
lounge, close by the lamp, and mechanically opened the Bible which
the Englishman had presented him, and which he had thrown on the
table while emptying his pockets. They say, he thought, that this
Bible contains the solution to all questions. So, opening it, he
began to read at the place at which it opened itself--Matt. x., 8.
After a while he inclined close to the lamp and became like one
petrified. An exultation, the like of which he had not experienced
for a long time, took possession of his soul, as though, after long
suffering and weariness, he found at last liberty and rest. He did
not sleep the whole night. As is the case with many who read the
Bible for the first time, he now, on reading it again, grasped the
full meaning of words which he had known long ago, but which he had
not understood before.
Like a sponge that absorbs everything, so he absorbed everything
that was important, necessary and joyful.
"That is the principal thing," thought Nekhludoff. "We all live in
the silly belief that we ourselves are the lords of our world, that
this world has been given us for our enjoyment. But this is evidently
untrue. Somebody must have sent us here for some reason. And for
this reason it is plain that we will suffer like those laborers
suffer who do not fulfill the wishes of their Master. The will of
the Lord is expressed in the teachings of Christ. Let man obey Him,
and the Kingdom of the Lord will come on earth, and man will derive
the greatest possible good.
"_Seek the truth and the Kingdom of God, and the rest will come of
itself._ We seek that which is to come, and do not find it, and not
only do we not build the Kingdom of God, but we destroy it.
"So this will henceforth be the task of my life!"
And indeed, from that night a new life began for Nekhludoff; not
so much because he had risen into a new stage of existence, but
because all that had happened to him till then assumed for him an
altogether new meaning.

THE END.

* * * * *
TRANSCRIBER'S NOTES:
(Not part of the original book.)
Below are listed the spelling inconsistencies in the names of certain
characters.The latter was known to have
his "Pickwick" at his fingers' ends, and Besant confessed that he had but
small hopes of success.  Both plodded steadily through the long list of
questions.  It should be said that the competition was open only to
members of Christ Church College, which thus excluded the greatest
reputed Pickwickian of them all, John Lempriere Hammond--the name, by the
way, of the "creator" of Sam Weller on the stage.  Besant went steadily
through his list of questions to the end, revised his answers, and got
his paper ready for delivery, but Skeat worked on to the very last
moment.  An evening or two later, as they were going into Hall, Calverley
pinned up his report on the board at the door just like one of the usual
University reports, and there was read the result:--

Besant . . . 1st Prize

Skeat . . . 2nd Prize

The authorities were not a little shocked at a liberty which assumed the
aspect of a burlesque of their own proceedings, and Calverley was spoken
to gently by a Don of the older school.  The paper of questions certainly
shows what ability may be brought to bear on so trifling a matter; for
there is really a power of analysis and a grasp of "inner meaning" that
is most remarkable.  Sir Walter has very acutely commented on this little
"exercise," and has shown that it reached much higher than a mere jest.
It brought out the extraordinary capacities of the book which have
exercised so many minds.  For "The Pickwick Examination," he says, "was
not altogether a burlesque of a college examination; it was a very real
and searching examination in a book which, brimful as it is of merriment,
mirth, and wit, is just as intensely human as a book can be.  The
characters are not puppets in a farce, stuck up only to be knocked down:
they are men and women.  Page after page, they show their true characters
and reveal themselves; they are consistent; even when they are most
absurd they are most real; we learn to love them.  It is a really serious
test paper; no one could answer any of it who had not read and re-read
the Pickwick Papers, and acquired, so to speak, a mastery of the subject.
No one could do well in the examination who had not gone much further
than this and got to know the book almost by heart.  It was a most
wonderful burlesque of the ordinary College and Senate House examination,
considering the subject from every possible point of view.  Especially is
it rich in the department then dear to Cambridge: the explanation of
words, phrases, and idioms."

Some of these cruxes, Sir Walter tells us, could not be solved by the
examiner, and were laid before Boz himself, with a copy of the questions.
Needless to say, Boz was infinitely amused, but, to the general
disappointment, could or would give no information.  The answer of
Browning on a similar appeal is well known--he referred his questioners
to the Browning Society, as knowing as much as he did on the point.  There
is no doubt that this is the true philosophy of the thing: that, once his
ideas are in print, the author has no more to do with them or their
meaning than anyone else has.  The passages must speak for themselves;
they are children sent into the world--helpless infants like those
Pickwickian "expletives, let loose upon society."  Among these
unexplained things were "my Prooshan Blue" and "Old Nobs."  Sir Walter,
with real Pickwickian sagacity, points to a true explanation which may be
applied in other cases.  "Probably it was a phrase _which he had heard in
a crowd_, and had never asked himself what it meant," _i.e._, it seemed
appropriate, and what a person in such a case would use.  This is in fact
part of that "hallucination" of which G. H. Lewes spoke; the scene came
so completely before Boz that the words and phrases suggested themselves
to him and could not be denied, and he did not ask them to give any
account.  This principle, however, does not hinder an amusing display of
speculation.  Mr. Andrew Lang's explanation of "My Prooshan Blue" is
certainly far fetched.  He thinks it refers to a dreamy notion of George
IV., who, at one moment, thought of changing the British uniform to the
Prussian Blue.  Now, this was not known at the time, and came out years
later.  It had certainly not reached persons of the Weller class.  The
truth is that most of Sam's grotesque epithets, _e.g._, "young Brokiley
sprout," were the arbitrary coinage of a fantastic mind.  This, too, as
Sir Walter said, "he may have heard in a crowd," or in the mazes of his
own brain.  "Old Nobs" is just as reasonable as Hamlet's "Old Truepenny."
"Are you there, Old Truepenny," might have been said by Sam to his
father, as Hamlet addressed it to _his_.


CHAPTER XIII.  PICKWICK IN REAL LIFE


I.--Dowler and John Forster


The truculent Dowler figured before in "The Tuggs at Ramsgate"--a very
amusing and Pickwickian tale--under the title of Capt. Waters, who
exhibits the same simulated ferocity and jealousy of his spouse.
Cruickshank's sketch, too, of the Captain is like that of Dowler when
throwing up the window in the Crescent.  Mrs. Waters is made as
attractive as Mrs. Dowler, and Cymon Tuggs, like Winkle, excites the
jealousy of the husband.

"Stop him," roared Dowler, "hold him--keep him tight--shut him in till I
come down--I'll cut his throat--give me a knife--from ear to ear, Mrs.
Craddock, I will."  And Captain Waters: "Ah! what do I see?  Slaughter,
your sabre--unhand me--the villain's life!"

In the same story we have an anticipation of another incident: the
shutting up and detection of Pipkin in the cupboard, who is discovered by
a pipe being required, just as young Tuggs was by his coughing from the
tobacco smoke.  Boz was partial to this method of discovery, for, at the
close, Snodgrass was thus concealed and shut up at Osborne's Hotel.  His
detection, through the stupidity of the Fat Boy, is singularly natural
and original.

Some of Dowler's dictatorial ways may have been suggested by Boz's
friend, the redoubtable John Forster.  There is one passage in the Bath
chapters where we almost seem to hear our old friend speaking, when he
took command of his friends and introduced them, "My friend, Angelo Cyrus
Bantam, Esquire, know each other."  "Bantam; Mr. Pickwick and his friends
are strangers.  _They must put their names down_.  _Where's the book_?"
Then adds: "This is a long call.  It's time to go; I shall be here again
in an hour.  _Come_."  And at the assembly he still continued his
patronage and direction of everybody.  "Step in the tea-room--take your
sixpenn'orth.  They lay on hot water and call it tea.  Drink it," said
Mr. Dowler, _in a loud voice_, _directing Mr. Pickwick_."  Forster "all
over."  We have heard him "direct" on many an occasion.  When starting
from the White Horse Cellars, Dowler, fancying that more passengers were
to be squeezed into the coach, said he would be d---d if there were; he'd
bring an action against the company, and take a post chaise.


II.--Thackeray


In Thackeray's "Newcomes," the writer had some reminiscences of a place
like Eatanswill, for we are told of the rival newspapers, "The Newcome
Independent" and "The Newcome Sentinel," the former being edited by one
Potts.  These journals assailed each other like their brethren in
"Pickwick."  "Is there any man in Newcome except, perhaps, our _twaddling
old contemporary_, _the Sentinel_," &c.  Doyle's picture of the election
is surely a reminiscence of Phiz's.  There is the same fight between the
bandsmen--the drum which someone is kicking a hole in, the brass
instrument used, placards, flags, and general _melee_.

Doyle could sketch Forster admirably.  Witness the drawing of the
travelling party in a carriage, given by Mr. Kitton in his wonderful
collection, "Dickens, by pen and pencil," where he has caught Forster's
"magisterial" air to the life.  The picture, "F. B.," Fred Bayham in the
story, is certainly the figure of Forster (vol. ii., pp. 55 and 116.)  F.
B. is shown both as a critic and pressman, though he has nothing of J.
F.'s domineering ways.  Again, the waiter, speaking of Lord Highgate,
said he was a _most harbitrary gent_.  This refers to the memorable story
of Forster being summoned by the cabman who said he did so because "he
were such a harbitrary cove."  The truth was, Forster knew the distance
to a yard, and would tender the cabman his exact fare and no more.  Once,
dining with Forster at a hotel in the country where he had rooms, we lit
our cigars after dinner, on which the waiter remonstrated, saying it was
not allowed.  Then I knew the meaning of a "Harbitrary Cove."  How the
irate Forster blew him up, roared at him, and drove him out, terrified!
It was, indeed, Dowler threatening the coach proprietor.

Thackeray would of course have known the story; he meant a sort of veiled
allusion which had or had not a reference.  We have the key to this sort
of thing in the strange, uncomplimentary reference to Catherine Hayes,
the murderess, but which was at once applied to an interesting and
celebrated Irish singer of the same name.  The author must have
anticipated this, and, perhaps, chuckled over the public ignorance, but
the allusion was far-fetched.  In the same fashion a dramatist once chose
to dub one of his characters by my own rather unusual name, on which he
protested that he never dreamt of it, that others bore it; still he,
however, was obliged to remove it.

Again, on p. 55 we have this passage: "I was thirsty, having walked from
"Jack Straw's Castle," at Hampstead, where poor Kiteley and I had been
taking a chop."  This was written in 1855, only a few years after
Forster's admirable performance of Kiteley with the other amateurs in
"Every man in his humour."  "Jack Straw's Castle," too, was a regular
haunt of Forster and Dickens.  It is as certain as anything can be that
this allusion was not an accidental one.


III.--Tupman


Tupman's relations to Mr. Pickwick were somewhat peculiar; he was
elderly--about Mr. Pickwick's age--whereas Winkle and Snodgrass were
young fellows under Mr. Pickwick's guardianship.  Over them he could
exercise despotic authority; which he did, and secured obedience.  It was
difficult to do this in the case of his contemporary, Tupman, who
naturally resented being "sat upon."  In the incident of the _Fete_ at
Mrs. Leo Hunter's, and the Brigand's dress--"the two-inch tail," Mr.
Pickwick was rather insulting and injudicious, gibing at and ridiculing
his friend on the exhibition of his corpulence, so that Tupman, stung to
fury, was about to assault him.  Mr. Pickwick had to apologise, but it is
clear the insult rankled; and it would appear that Tupman was never
afterwards much in the confidence of his leader, and, for that matter, in
the confidence of his author.  Boz, either consciously or unconsciously,
felt this.  Tupman, too, never seems to have got over the figure he "cut"
in the spinster aunt business, and the loss of general respect.

Still he submitted to be taken about under Mr. Pickwick's patronage, but
soon the mutual irritation broke out.  The occasion was the latter's
putting on speckled stockings for the dance at Manor Farm.  "_You_ in
silk stockings," exclaimed Tupman, jocosely; a most natural, harmless
remark, considering that Mr. Pickwick invariably wore his gaiters at
evening parties.  But the remark was hotly resented, and challenged.  "You
see nothing extraordinary in the stockings _as_ stockings, I trust, sir?"
Of course his friend said "No, certainly not," which was the truth, but
Mr. Pickwick put aside the obvious meaning.  Mr. Tupman "walked away,"
wishing to avoid another altercation, afraid to trust himself; and Mr.
Pickwick, proud of having once more "put him down," assumed his
"customary benign expression."  This did not promise well.

In all the Manor Farm jollity, we hear little or nothing of Tupman, who
seems to have been thought a cypher.  No doubt he felt that the girls
could never look at him without a smile--thinking of the spinster aunt.
In the picture of the scene, we find this "old Buck" in the foreground,
on one knee, trying to pickup a pocket handkerchief and holding a young
lady by the hand.  Snodgrass and his lady are behind; Winkle and his
Arabella on the other side; Trundle and his lady at the fire.  Then who
was Tupman's young woman?  She is not mentioned in the text, yet is
evidently a prominent personage--one of the family.  At Ipswich, he was
crammed into the sedan chair with his leader--two very stout
gentlemen--which could not have increased their good humour, though
Tupman assisted him from within to stand up and address the mob.  We are
told that "all Mr. Tupman's entreaties to have the lid of the vehicle
closed" were unattended to.  He felt the ridicule of his position--a
sedan chair carried along, and a stout man speaking.  This must have
produced friction.  Then there was the sense of injustice in being
charged with aiding and abetting his leader, which Mr. Pickwick did not
attempt to clear him from.  When Mr. Pickwick fell through the ice,
Tupman, instead of rendering help, ran off to Manor Farm with the news of
the accident.

Then the whole party went down to Bath and, during their stay there, we
have not a word of Tupman.  He came to see his friend in the Fleet--with
the others of course.  But now for the remarkable thing.  On Mr.
Pickwick's happy release and when every one was rejoining, Wardle invited
the whole party to a family dinner at the Osborne.  There were Snodgrass,
Winkle, Perker even, but no Tupman!  Winkle and his wife were at the
"George and Vulture."  Why not send to Tupman as well.  No one perhaps
thought of him--he had taken no interest in the late exciting adventures,
had not been of the least help to anybody--a selfish old bachelor.  When
Mr. Pickwick had absented himself looking for his Dulwich house, it is
pointed out with marked emphasis that certain folk--"among whom was Mr.
Tupman"--maliciously suggested that he was busy looking for a wife!
Neither Winkle nor Snodgrass started this hypothesis, but Tupman.  He,
however, was at Dulwich for Winkle's marriage, and had a seat on the
Pickwick coach.  In later days, we learn that the Snodgrasses settled
themselves at Dingley Dell so as to be near the family--the Winkles, at
Dulwich, to be near Mr. Pickwick, both showing natural affection.  The
selfish Tupman, thinking of nobody but himself, settled at Richmond where
he showed himself on the Terrace with a youthful and jaunty air, "trying
to attract the elderly single ladies of condition."  All the others kept
in contact with their chief, asking him to be godfather, &c.  But we have
not a word of Tupman.  It is likely, with natures such as his, that he
never forgot the insulting remark about his corpulence.  That is the way
with such vain creatures.

Boz, I believe, had none of these speculations positively before him, but
he was led by the logic of his story.  He had to follow his characters
and their development; they did not follow him.


IV.--Grummer


This well drawn sketch of an ignorant, self-sufficient constable is
admirable.  I have little doubt that one of the incidents in which he
figures was suggested to _Boz_ by a little adventure of Grimaldi's which
he found in the mass of papers submitted to him, and which he worked up
effectively.  A stupid and malicious old constable, known as "Old Lucas,"
went to arrest the clown on an imaginary charge, as he was among his
friends at the theatre.  As in the case of Grummer, the friends, like
Winkle and Snodgrass, threatened the constable.  The magistrate heard the
case, sentenced Grimaldi to pay 5s. fine.  Old Lucas, in his
disappointment, arrested him again.  Being attacked by Grimaldi, as
Grummer was by Sam, he drew his staff and behaved outrageously.  The
magistrate then, like Nupkins, had him placed in the dock, and sentenced.

It has also been stated that Grummer was drawn from Towshend--the
celebrated Bow Street Runner again introduced in "Oliver Twist."  Towshend
was a privileged person, like Grummer, and gave his advice familiarly to
the magistrates.


CHAPTER XIV.  CHARACTERISTICS


I.--The Wardle Family


Here is a very pleasing and natural group of persons, in whom it is
impossible not to take a deep interest.  They are like some amiable
family that we have known.  Old Wardle, as he is called, though he was
under fifty, was a widower, and had remained so, quite content with his
daughters' attachment.  He had his worthy old mother to live with him, to
whom he was most dutiful, tolerant, and affectionate.  These two points
recommend him.  There was no better son than Boz himself, so he could
appreciate these things.  The sketch is interesting as a picture of the
patriarchal system that obtained in the country districts, all the family
forming one household, as in France.  For here we have Wardle, his
mother, and his sister, together with his two pleasing daughters, while,
later on, his sons-in-law established themselves close by.  The "poor
relations" seem to have been always there.  It is astonishing how Boz, in
his short career, could have observed and noticed these things.  Wardle's
fondness for his daughters is really charming, and displayed without
affectation.  He connected them with the image of his lost wife.  There
is no more natural, truly affecting passage than his display of
fretfulness when he got some inkling that his second daughter was about
to make a rather improvident marriage with young Snodgrass.  The first
had followed her inclinations in wedding Trundle--a not very good
match--but he did not lose her as the pair lived beside him.  He thought
Emily, however, a pretty girl who ought to do better, and he had his eye
on "a young gentleman in the neighbourhood"--and for some four or five
months past he had been pressing her to receive his addresses favourably.
This was clearly a good match.  Not that he would unduly press her, but
"if she _could_, for I would never force a young girl's inclinations."  He
never thought, he says, that the Snodgrass business was serious.  But,
how natural that, when Arabella, their friend, had become a regular
heroine and had gone off with her Winkle, that this should fill Emily's
head with similar thoughts, and set the pair on thinking that they were
persecuted, &c.  What a natural scene is this between father and
daughter.

   "My daughter Bella, Emily having gone to bed with a headache after she
   had read Arabella's letter to me, sat herself down by my side the
   other evening, and began to talk over this marriage affair.  "Well,
   pa," she says; "what do you think of it?"  "Why, my dear," I said; "I
   suppose it's all very well; I hope it's for the best."  I answered in
   this way because I was sitting before the fire at the time, drinking
   my grog rather thoughtfully, and I knew my throwing in an undecided
   word now and then would induce her to continue talking.  Both my girls
   are pictures of their dear mother, and as I grow old I like to sit
   with only them by me; for their voices and looks carry me back to the
   happiest period of my life, and make me, for the moment, as young as I
   used to be then, though not quite so light-hearted.  "It's quite a
   marriage of affection, pa," said Bella, after a short silence.  "Yes,
   my dear," said I; "but such marriages do not always turn out the
   happiest."  "I am sorry to hear you express your opinion against
   marriages of affection, pa," said Bella, colouring a little.  "I was
   wrong; I ought not to have said so, my dear, either," said I patting
   her cheek as kindly as a rough old fellow like me could do it, "for
   your mother's was one and so was yours."  "It's not that, I meant,
   pa," said Bella.  "The fact is, pa, I wanted to speak to you about
   Emily."  The long and the short of it is, then, that Bella at last
   mustered up courage to tell me that Emily was unhappy; that she and
   your young friend Snodgrass had been in constant correspondence and
   communication ever since last Christmas; that she had very dutifully
   made up her mind to run away with him, in laudable imitation of her
   old friend and schoolfellow.

Another member of this pleasant household was "The Fat Boy."  There is
nothing humorous or farcical in the mere physical exhibition of a fat
person, _qua_ his fat.  It was, indeed, the fashion of the day--and on
the stage particularly--to assume that fatness was associated with
something comic.  There are a number of stout persons in Pickwick--the
hero himself, Tupman, old Weller, and all the coachmen, the turnkeys,
Slammer, Wardle, Fat Boy, Nupkin's cook, Grummer, Buzfuz, Mrs. Weller,
Mr. Bagman's uncle, and others.  Thackeray attempted to work with this
element in the case of Jos Sedley, and his fatness had a very close
connection with his character.  But, in the case of Boz, his aim was much
more intellectual and, as it were, refined.  For his object was to show
what was a fat person's view of this world, as seen through the medium of
Fat.  The Fat Boy is not a selfish, sensual being by nature--he is really
helpless, and the creature of necessity who is forced by his bulk to take
a certain _fat_ view of everything round him."  If we reflect on it we
shall see how clearly this is carried out.  It is curious that, in the
instance of the Fat Boy, Boz should have repeated or duplicated a
situation, and yet contrived to impart such varied treatment, but I
suspect no one has ever noticed the point.  Joe, it will be remembered,
witnessed the proceedings in the arbour, when Mr. Tupman declared his
passion for the spinster aunt, and the subsequent embracing--to the great
embarrassment of the pair.  At the close of the story he also intruded on
another happy pair--Mr. Snodgrass and his _inamorata_--at a similar
delicate moment.  Yet in the treatment, how different--"_I wants to make
yer flesh creep_!"--his taking the old lady into confidence; and then he
was pronounced by his master, Wardle, to be under some delusion--"let me
at him"--&c., so his story and report led him into a scrape.  When he
intruded on the pair at Osborne's Hotel, and Snodgrass was, later, shut
up there, again he was made the scapegoat, and Wardle insisted that he
was drunk, &c.  So here were the incidents repeating themselves.


II.--Shooting, Riding, Driving, etc.


Boz declared in one of his Prefaces that he was so ignorant of country
sports, that he could not attempt to deal with them in a story.
Notwithstanding this protest, he has given us a couple of shooting scenes
which show much experience of that form of field sports.  There is a tone
of sympathy and freshness, a keen enjoyment of going forth in the
morning, which proves that he himself had taken part in such things.  Rook-
shooting was then an enjoyable sport, and Boz was probably thinking of
the rooks at Cobham, where he had no doubt hovered round the party when a
lad.  As we know, Mr. Tupman, who was a mere looker-on, was "peppered" by
his friend Winkle, a difficult thing to understand, as Winkle must have
been firing high into the trees, and if he hit his friend at all, would
have done so with much more severity.  The persons who were in serious
danger from Mr. Winkle's gun were the boys in the trees, and we may
wonder that one, at least, was not shot dead.  But the whole is so
pleasantly described as to give one a perfect _envie_ to go out and shoot
rooks.  There are some delightful touches, such as Mr. Pickwick's alarm
about the climbing boys, "for he was not quite certain that the distress
in the agricultural interest, might not have compelled the small boys
attached to the soil to earn a precarious and hazardous existence by
making marks of themselves for inexperienced sportsmen."  And again, "the
boy shouted and shook a branch with a nest on it.  _Half-a-dozen young
rooks in violent conversation flew out to ask what the matter was_."  Does
not this bring the whole scene before us.

The other shooting scene is near Bury St. Edmunds--on Sir Geoffrey
Manning's grounds--on September 1st, 1830, or 1827, whichever Boz
pleases, when "many a young partridge who strutted complacently among the
stubble with all his finical coxcombry of youth, and many an older one
who watched his levity out of his little, round eye with the contemptuous
air of a bird of wisdom and experience, alike unconscious of their
approaching doom, basked in the fresh morning air with lively and
blithesome feelings, and, a few hours later, were laid low upon the
earth."  Here we have the beginning of that delightful fashion of
Dickens's, which he later carried to such perfection, of associating
human feelings and associations with the animal creation, and also
inanimate objects.

Everything connected with "the shooting" is admirably touched: The old,
experienced "shot," Wardle; the keepers and their boys; the dogs; the
sham amateurs; the carrying of the guns "reversed arms, like privates at
a funeral."  Mr. Winkle "flashed and blazed and smoked away without
producing any material results; at one time expending his charge in mid-
air, and at others sending it skimming along so near the surface of the
ground as to place the lives of the two dogs on a rather uncertain and
precarious tenure.  'What's the matter with the dogs' legs?  How _queer_
they're standing!' whispered Mr. Winkle.   'Hush, can't you!  Don't you
see they are making a point?' said Wardle.  'Making a point?' said Mr.
Winkle, glaring about him, as if he expected to discern some particular
beauty in the landscape which the sagacious animals were calling special
attention to.  'What are they pointing at?'  'Keep your eyes open,' said
Wardle, not heeding the question in the excitement of the moment.  'Now
then.'"  How natural and humorous is all this.

This was partridge shooting, "old style"--delightful and inspiriting, as
all have felt who have shared in it.  Now we have "drives" on a vast
scale; then you would follow the birds from field to field "marking them
down."  I myself with an urchin, a dog, and a single-barrelled old gun
have thus followed a few precious birds from field to field all the day
and secured them at the last.  That was true enjoyment.


III.--Horses and Driving in "Pickwick."


For one who so modestly disclaimed all knowledge of sporting and country
tastes, Boz shows a very familiar acquaintance with horses and their
ways.  He has introduced a number of these animals whose points are all
distinctly emphasized: a number of persons are shown to be interested in
horses, who exhibit their knowledge of and sympathise with the animals, a
knowledge and sympathy which is but a reflection of his own.  The cunning
hand that could so discriminate between shades of humorous characters
would not be at a loss to analyse traits of equine nature.  There is the
cab horse, said to be forty years old and kept in the shafts for two or
three weeks at a time, which is depicted in Seymour's plate.  How
excellently drawn are the two Rochester steeds: one "an immense brown
horse, displaying great symmetry of bone," which was to be driven by Mr.
Pickwick, and Mr. Winkle's riding animal, another immense horse
"apparently a near relative of the animal in the chaise."  "He don't shy,
does he?"  The ostler guaranteed him quiet--"a hinfant in arms might
drive him"--"He wouldn't shy if he met a whole waggon-load of monkeys
with their tails burnt off."  A far more original illustration than
anything used by the Wellers, whose special form that was.  I pass over
the details of the driving and the riding which show a perfect knowledge
of animals, such as "the tall quadruped."  Nothing is more droll than the
description of the loathing with which the party came to regard the
animal they were compelled to lead about all day.  Then we have the post
horses and all connected with them.  There is Tom Smart's "vixenish
mare," quite an intelligent character in her way.  The account of the
coach drive down to Muggleton shows admirable observation of the ways of
the drivers.

Ben Allen's aunt had her private fly, painted a sad green colour drawn by
a "chubby sort of brown horse."  I pass over the ghostly mailcoach horses
that flew through the night in "The Story of the Bagman's Uncle," flowing-
maned, black horses.  There are many post horses figuring in Mr.
Pickwick's journey from Bristol to Birmingham and thence home; horses in
the rain and out of it.

Namby's horse was "a bay, a well-looking animal enough, but with
something of a flash and dog-fighting air about him."  The horses which
took the hackney coach to the Fleet jolted along as hackney coaches
usually do.  "The horses 'went better,' the driver said, 'when they had
anything before them.'  They must have gone at a most extraordinary pace
when there was nothing."  Visiting the Fleet with Mrs. Weller and the
deputy Shepherd, Mr. Weller drove up from Dorking with the old piebald in
his chaise cart, which, after long delay, was brought out for the return
journey.  "If he stands at livery much longer he'll stand at nothin' as
we go back."  There is a capital scene at the opening of Chapter XLVI.,
when the "cabrioilet" was drawing up at Mrs. Bardell's, and where so much
that is dramatic is "got out" of such a simple incident between the
contending directions.


IV.--Mr. Pickwick in Silk Stockings.


How well Boz knew how to touch the chords of human character--a power
that certainly needs long experience to work--is shown by the scene at
Wardle's dance, where Mr. Pickwick is nettled by Tupman's remarking that
he was wearing "pumps" for the first time.  "_You_ in silk stockings,"
said that gentleman.  Mr. Pickwick had just called attention to the
change which he considered a sort of public event to be admired by all.
"See this great man condescending to our frivolous tastes," and his host
had noted it in a flattering way.  "You mean to dance?"  But Tupman did
not look at it in this respectful way--he made a joke of it!  "_You_ in
silk stockings."  This was insolent to the grave, great man and
philosopher, so he turned sharply on his familiar: "And why not, sir--why
not?"  This with warmth.  The foolish Tupman, still inclined to be
jocose, said, "Oh, of course, there is no reason why you shouldn't wear
them"--a most awkward speech--as who should say, "This is a free
country--a man can wear a night cap in public if he chooses."  "I imagine
not, sir--I imagine not," said Mr. Pickwick, in a _very peremptory_ tone.
Mr. Tupman had contemplated a laugh, but he found it was a serious
matter, so he looked grave, and said _they were a pretty pattern_.  How
natural is all this!  And still more so his leader's reply.  "I hope they
are," he said, fixing his eyes upon his friend, "You see nothing
extraordinary in the stockings, _as_ stockings, I trust, sir."  The
frightened Tupman said, "Certainly not, Oh, certainly not," and walked
away.  Mr. Pickwick's face resumed its customary benign expression.  This
little picture of weakness in an eminent man is characteristic.  For
observe, when Tupman showed the folly of wearing a "two inch tail" to the
brigand's coat, Mr. Pickwick was furious, told him he was too old and too
fat; but when someone remarks on _his_ silk stockings he gets deeply
offended.  His vanity is touched, there should have been no remark, or,
at least, only of admiration.  He was, in fact, one of those flattered
and spoiled personages who cannot see any harm in their doing what they
reprove in others.  Many a really great character is weak in this
direction.  Observe the disingenuousness of the great man; he knew,
perfectly, that Tupman noticed nothing odd in the stockings, "_as_
stockings," he meant the oddity of his wearing them at all, and he had
said so, plainly.  But, ignoring this, the great man chose to assume that
he was insolently reflecting on their pattern as outlandish.  With his
despotic pressure, he forced him to say they were of a "pretty pattern,"
and thus vindicated his authority.


V.--Violent Assaults, Shooting, &c


Duelling, imprisonment for debt, intoxication, elopements, are, perhaps,
the most striking social incidents in "Pickwick" that have disappeared
and become all but antiquarian in their character.  Yet another, almost
as curious, was the ready recourse to physical force or violence--fistic
correction as it might be termed.  A gentleman of quiet, restrained
habit, like Mr. Pickwick, was prepared, in case of call, either to
threaten or execute summary chastisement on anyone who offended him.  The
police or magistrates seemed not to have been thought of, for the victim
would not think of appealing to either--all which seems strange to us
nowadays.  At the Review even, the soldiers coolly overthrew Mr. Pickwick
and his friends who had got in their way.  Winkle was maltreated so
severely that the blood streamed from his nose; this would not now be
tolerated.  When Jingle affronted the great man by calling his friend
"Tuppy," Mr. Pickwick, we are told, "hurled the inkstand madly forward
and followed it up himself."  This hurling of things at offenders was a
common incident, particularly in quarrels at table, when the decanter was
frequently so used, or a glass of wine thrown in the face.  After the
adventure at the Boarding School, Mr. Pickwick "indented his pillow with
a tremendous blow," and announced that, if he met Jingle again, he would
"inflict personal chastisement on him"; while Sam declared that he would
bring "real water" into Job's eyes.  Old Lobbs, in the story, was going
to throttle Pipkin.  Mrs. Potts insisted that the editor of _The
Independent_ should be horsewhipped.  More extraordinary still, old
Weller, at a quiet tea-meeting, assaulted the Shepherd, giving him "two
or three for himself, and two or three more to hand over to the man with
the red nose."  Everyone set themselves right in this way and, it is
clear, knew how to use their "bunch of fives."  Nor were there any
summonses or police courts afterwards; the incident was closed.  Sam,
attempting to rescue his master at Ipswich, knocked down the "specials"
right and left, knocking down some for others to lie upon, yet he was
only fined two pounds for the first assault and three for the second--now
he would have been sent to jail under a severe sentence.  Mrs. Raddle
insisted that her husband should get up and knock every one of the guests
down stairs, while Jack Hopkins offered to go upstairs and "pitch into
the landlord."  At the Brick Lane meeting, Brother Stiggins, intoxicated,
knocked Brother Tadger down the stairs, while old Weller violently
assaulted Stiggins.  At Bath, Dowler hunted Winkle round the Crescent,
threatening to cut his throat; and at Bristol, when the terrified Winkle
tried to ring the bell, Dowler fancied that he was going to strike him.
At Bristol, Ben Allen flourished the poker, threatening his sister's
rival, and when Mr. Pickwick sent Sam to capture Winkle, he instructed
him to knock him down even, if he resisted; this direction was given with
all seriousness.  "If he attempts to run away from you, _knock him down_,
or lock him up, you have my full authority, Sam."  The despotism of this
amiable man was truly extraordinary, he ruled his "followers" with a rod
of iron.  That such should be exercised, or accepted even by the reader,
is a note of the time.  It was, however, only a logical consequence of
the other summary methods.

The altercation between Mr. Pickwick and his other "follower," Tupman,
arising out of the "two-inch tail" question, was on the same lines.  For
the affront of being called fat and old the latter scientifically turned
up his cuffs and announced that he would inflict summary chastisement on
his leader.  Mr. Pickwick met him with a cordial "come on," throwing
himself into a pugilistic attitude, supposed by the two bystanders to
have been intended as a posture of defence.  This seems to have been
accepted as a natural incident, though it was deprecated.  In the Fleet
Prison, when Mr. Pickwick's nightcap was snatched off, he retorted with a
smart blow, and again invited everyone, "all of you," to "come on."  When
the coachmen attended Sam to the Fleet, walking eight abreast, they had
to leave behind one of the party "to fight a ticket porter, it being
arranged that his friends should call for him as they came back."  Even
in a moment of agitation--as when Ben Allen learned that his sister had
"bolted," his impulse was to rush at Martin the groom and throttle him;
the latter, in return, "felling the medical student to the ground."  Then
we have the extraordinary and realistic combat between Pott and Slurk in
the kitchen of the "Saracen's Head," Towcester--the one armed with a
shovel, the other with a carpet bag--and old Weller's chastisement of
Stiggins.  In short, this system of chastisement on the spot, it is
clear, was a necessary equipment, and everybody, high and low, was
understood to be ready to secure satisfaction for himself by the aid of
violence.  No doubt this was a consequence of the duel which was, of
course, to be had recourse to only as the last resort.

When the wretched Jingle, and the still more wretched Job met Mr.
Pickwick in the Fleet, and the latter, giving money, had said, "Take
that, sir," the author adds, "Take what? . . .  As the world runs, it
ought to have been a sound, hearty cuff, for Mr. Pickwick had been duped,
deceived, &c."  Thus, Boz thought, as of course, that this was the
suitable method of treatment in such cases.  "Must we tell the truth?" he
goes on; "it was a piece of money."  The unconsciousness of all this is
very striking.


VI.--Winkle and Snodgrass


It has always seemed a matter of astonishment to me how such a creature
as Winkle should have won the fair Arabella.  Every act of this man was a
deception--he could not help pretence, or, shall we say it boldly, lying.
His duel was a series of tricks--his shooting, skating, etc., all a sham.
Even when found out as an impostor before all the keepers and others, we
find him impudently saying, "I'll tell you what I shall do _to get up my
shooting again_."  The fellow never had any shooting to get up.  But the
mere habit of untruth was ingrained in the man.  His undignified race, in
a dressing-gown, round the Crescent was no doubt concealed from
Arabella--she would never have got over that!  As a display of cowardice
it was only matched by his hypocritical assumption of courage before
Dowler when he found he could assume it safely.  He deceived his father
and Mr. Pickwick as to his marriage, and dropped on his knees to the
latter to beg pardon.  How mean, too, was his behaviour to Mrs. Pott in
the difficulty with her husband.  But nothing could shake the interest of
the fair Arabella in her lover, even his ignominious and public treatment
by Mr. Pickwick at the skating exhibition.  How _can_ we account for it.
But Boz knew the female nature well, and here is the explanation: Winkle
had been "out"--had figured in a duel with a real officer in the army.
There was no mistake about _that_--gone out, too, in what appeared a
chivalrous manner to save the honour of the club.  At least it had the
appearance of all that (though here was another falsehood).  This had
been told to all--no doubt by Winkle himself--many times over.  Nothing
could enfeeble that, it seemed heroic, and covered all other _laches_.
Neither did it lose in _his_ telling of it.

The most ridiculous feature surely in the man was his costume--meant to
be of a sporting complexion--which he never abandoned: green shooting
coat, plaid neckchief, and closely fitting drabs.  When he returned from
his honeymoon, he was still in this uniform.

We may assume, however, that this points to a custom of the time: that
the sportsman was _always_ a sportsman.  Even at the club meeting, at a
poorish room in a tavern, he must carry on the fiction that he has just
come back from a day's sporting, for there on the floor, conspicuous, are
the fowling piece, game bag, fishing rod, &c.

Snodgrass was another incapable and quite uninteresting--a person whom we
would not care to know.  He posed as a poet and, to this end, wore, even
at the club, "a mysterious blue cloak, with a canine skin collar";
imagine this of a warm evening--May 12--in a stuffy room in Huggin Lane!
He must, however, live up to his character, at all hazards.

Snodgrass and his verses, and his perpetual "note book," must have made
him a bore of the first water.  How could the charming Emily have
selected him.  He, too, had some of Winkle's craft.  He had been
entertained cordially and hospitably by old Wardle, and repaid him by
stealing his daughter's affections in a very underhand way, actually
plotting to run away with her.

There was something rather ignominious in his detection at Osborne's
Hotel.  He is a very colourless being.  As to his being a Poet, it would
seem to be that he merely gave himself out for one and persuaded his
friends that he was such.  His remarks at the "Peacock" are truly
sapient: "Show me the man that says anything against women, as women, and
_I boldly declare he is not a man_!"  Which is matched by Mr. Winkle's
answer to the charge of his being "a serpent": "Prove it," said Mr.
Winkle, warmly.  It is to be suspected that the marriage with the amiable
Emily was not a success.  The author throws out a hint to that effect:
"Mr Snodgrass, being occasionally abstracted and melancholy, is to this
day reputed a great poet among his acquaintance, though we do not find he
has ever written anything to encourage the belief."  In other words he
was carrying on the old Pickwick game of "Humbug."  So great an intellect
had quite thrown itself away on poor Emily--even his abstraction and
melancholy.  How natural too that he should "hang on" to his father-in-
law "and establish himself close to Dingly Dell"--to "sponge,"
probably--while he made a sham of farming; for are we not told that he
purchased and cultivated a small farm--"_more for occupation than
profit_"--thus again making believe.  Poor Emily!

I lately looked through the swollen pages of the monster London Directory
to find how many of the Pickwickian names were in common use.  There was
not a single Snodgrass, though there was one Winkel, and one "Winkle and
Co." in St. Mary Axe.  There was one Tupman, a Court dressmaker--no
Nupkins, but some twenty Magnuses, and not a single Pickwick.  There
were, however, some twenty-four Wellers.


CHAPTER XV.--DULWICH


I.--Mr. Pickwick's Diversions


Mr. Pickwick, as we know, retired to end his days at peaceful
Dulwich--placid and tranquil as his own amiable heart.  It is as certain
as though we had been living there and had seen all that was going on,
that he became universally popular, and quite a personage in the place.
Everyone was sure to meet him taking his afternoon walk along the rural
lanes, or making his way to the Greyhound, where he was often found of an
evening--possibly every evening.  This Greyhound, an old-fashioned and
somewhat antique house, though not mentioned in the story, is linked to
it by implication; for to settle at Dulwich and ignore the Greyhound was
a thing that could not be.  Usually there is nothing small or stingy about
a barn door, and a farmer's hay-barn puts only a very thin partition between
you and the outside world.

Therefore, what could be a more fit place to thresh out dry philosophical
subjects than a barn floor? I have a few such subjects to thresh out, and
I thresh them here, turning them over as many times as we used to turn
over the oat and rye sheaves in the old days when I wielded the hickory
flail with my brothers on this same barn floor.

What a pleasure it is to look back to those autumn days, generally
in September or early October, when we used to thresh out a few
bushels of the new crop of rye to be taken to the grist-mill for a
fresh supply of flour!

   How often we paused in our work to munch apples that had been
   mellowing in the haymow by our side, and look out through the big
   doorway upon the sunlit meadows and hill-slopes! The sound of the
   flail is heard in the old barn no more, but in its stead the scratching
   of a pen and the uneasy stirring of a man seated there behind a big
   box, threshing out a harvest for a loaf of much less general
   value.
   
   As I sit here day after day, bending over my work, I get many glimpses
   of the little rills of wild life that circulate about me. The feature
   of it that impresses me most is the life of fear that most of the
   wild creatures lead. They are as alert and cautious as are the picket-lines
   of opposing armies. Just over the line of stone wall in the orchard
   a woodchuck comes hesitatingly out of his hole and goes nibbling in
   the grass not fifty feet away. How alert and watchful he is!
   Every few moments he sits upright and takes an observation, then
   resumes his feeding. When I make a slight noise he rushes to the cover
   of the stone wall. Then, as no danger appears, he climbs to the top
   of it and looks in my direction. As I move as if to get up, he drops
   back quietly to his hole.
   
   A chipmunk comes along on the stone wall, hurrying somewhere on an
   important errand, but changing his course every moment. He runs on
   the top of the wall, then along its side, then into it and through
   it and out on the other side, pausing every few seconds and looking
   and listening, careful not to expose himself long in any one
   position, really skulking and hiding all along his journey. His
   enemies are keen and watchful and likely to appear at any moment, and
   he knows it, not so much by experience as by instinct. His young are
   timid and watchful the first time they emerge from the den into the
   light of day.
   
   Then a red squirrel comes spinning along. By jerks and nervous, spasmodic
   spurts he rushes along from cover to cover like a soldier dodging
   the enemy's bullets. When he discovers me, he pauses, and with one
   paw on his heart appears to press a button, that lets off a flood
   of snickering, explosive sounds that seem like ridicule of me and
   my work. Failing to get any response from me, he presently
   turns, and, springing from the wall to the bending branch of a near
   apple-tree, he rushes up and disappears amid the foliage. Presently
   I see him on the end of a branch, where he seizes a green apple not yet
   a third grown, and, darting down to a large horizontal branch, sits up
   with the apple in his paws and proceeds to chip it up for the pale,
   unripe seeds at its core, all the time keenly alive to possible
   dangers that may surround him. What a nervous, hustling, highstrung
   creature he is--a live wire at all times and places! That pert curl of
   the end of his tail, as he sits chipping the apple or cutting through
   the shell of a nut, is expressive of his character. What a contrast his
   nervous and explosive activity presents to the more sedate and dignified
   life of the gray squirrel! One of these passed us only a few yards
   away on our walk in the woods the other day--a long, undulating line
   of soft gray, silent as a spirit and graceful as a wave on the beach.
   
   A little later, in the fine, slow-falling rain, a rabbit suddenly
   emerges into my field of vision fifty feet away. How timid and
   scared she looks! She pauses a moment amid the weeds, then hops a yard
   or two and pauses again, then passes under the bars and hesitates
   on the edge of a more open and exposed place immediately in front of
   me. Here she works her nose, feeling of every current of air,
   analyzing every scent to see if danger is near. Apparently detecting
   something suspicious in the currents that drift from my direction,
she turns back, pauses again, works her nose as before, then hurries
out of my sight.

Yesterday I saw a rat stealing green peas from my garden in the
open day.

   He darted out of the stone wall six or eight feet away to the row
of peas, rushed about nervously among the vines; then, before I
could seize my rifle, darted back to the cover of the wall. Once I
cautiously approached his hiding-place in the wall and waited.
Presently his head emerged from the line of weeds by the fence, his
nose began working anxiously, he sifted and resifted the air with
it, and then quickly withdrew; his nose had detected me, but his
eye had not.Pickwick has been entertaining a series of
   visitors--among others, Mr. Wardle, of Manor Farm, Muggleton, Kent,
   with Miss Wardle, his sister--the heroine of a most romantic story
   communicated to us by Mr. Weller, though we are not privileged to lift
   the veil from this interesting episode.  But suffice it to say that it
   comprised an elopement and exciting chase, in which Mr. Pickwick, with
   his usual gallantry, took part.  The estrangement which necessarily
   followed between brother and sister has long since been happily
   healed.  Mr. Perker, the eminent London solicitor--Mr. Pickwick's
   "guide, philosopher and friend"--has also been staying at the Dell.


HUMOROUS ADVENTURE.


   Our readers will be entertained by the following droll contretemps
   which befel our deservedly popular fellow-citizen, as we may call him,
   Mr. Pickwick.  As our readers know, the Annual Charity Dinner took
   place at the Greyhound, on Tuesday, Mr. Pickwick being in the chair,
   and making many of his happiest speeches during the course of which he
   related many curious details about himself and his life.  The party
   did not break up till a late hour--nearly eleven o'clock.  A fly--a
   special one, as usual--had been retained to take Mr. Pickwick home,
   but as the trusted Hobson, who invariably attends Mr. Pickwick on such
   occasions, had another engagement, a stranger was procured from
   Camberwell.  Mr. Pickwick was placed in the vehicle not, as he says,
   without misgivings, and, as he admits, fell fast asleep.  He was
   driven home--as he fancied.  On arriving, the coachman had much
   difficulty in making himself heard.  Mr. Pickwick entered the house,
   still scarcely aroused, and turning into the study, sank into an
   armchair, and once more fell into a slumber.  He was presently
   aroused, he says, by voices, and found himself surrounded by strange
   faces and figures in various states of _deshabille_.  The head of the
   house, the well-known Mr. Gibson, who had been roused from his
   slumbers, on the maid, Mary Perkes, giving the alarm that robbers were
   in the house, had rushed down in his trousers only; the man-servant
   ditto; the young ladies in anything they could find.  Mr. Pickwick
   describes his alarm as he found these faces round him, and, not
   unnaturally, conceived the idea that robbers had broken into _his_
   house, and that his was in their power!  A humorous imbroglio
   followed.  He instantly rushed to secure the poker, and, flourishing
   it round his head, cried out repeatedly, "Keep off! every one of you!
   or I'll brain the first man that comes near me!"  Fortunately, the
   respected man-servant, who had been many years with Mr. Gibson, and
   had met Mr. Weller, at once recognized Mr. Weller's master, and said:
   "Why, its Mr. Pickwick! ain't it?  Don't you know _this_ ain't your
   own house, sir."  The truth then all flashed upon him.  Mr. Pickwick
   relates that he became so tickled with the odd humour of his situation
   that he fell into his chair in convulsions of laughter, and laughed
   long and loudly, for many minutes.  The more he laughed, the more Mr.
   Gibson laughed.  At last, all was explained, and the amusing scene
   ended by a room being hastily got ready for Mr. Pickwick (for the
   cabman had gone away).  No one was more amused, or indeed, more
   pleased, at these "mistakes of a night" than Mr. Gibson, who always
   tells the story with infinite drollery.  Mr. Pickwick takes all the
   blame on himself, declaring, as he says his old friend Winkle used to
   say: "_It wasn't the wine_, _but the salmon_."


ATTEMPTED ROBBERY AT MR. PICKWICK'S HOUSE.


   Last night, we are sorry to learn, a very daring attempt was made to
   rob the mansion of our much esteemed resident, Mr. Pickwick.  The
   Dell, as our readers know, is a substantial dwelling-house, standing
   in its own grounds, and comparatively unprotected.  The family,
   consists of the owner, his housekeeper, Mrs. Purdy, and his faithful
   servant, Mr. Samuel Weller, whose pleasant humour is well-known, and
   who is deservedly popular in Dulwich.  Nothing was noticed until about
   two o'clock in the morning, when, as Mr. Weller has informed us, he
   was awakened by a low, grinding sound, which, in his quaint style, he
   says reminded him "a fellow in _quad_ a-filing his irons."  With much
   promptitude he rose and, loosening the dog, proceeded in the direction
   of the sounds; the villains, however, became alarmed, and Mr. Weller
   was just in time to see them, as he says, "a-cuttin' their lucky" over
   the garden wall.  Much sympathy is expressed for the worthy and
   deservedly esteemed Mr. Pickwick, and for the outrage done to his
   feelings.


FETE AT MR. PICKWICK'S.


   On Thursday last, this amiable and always benevolent gentleman, who,
   it is known, takes the deepest interest in the stage, invited all the
   brethren of the college to a dinner, after which, he threw open his
   grounds to all his acquaintances, indeed, to all Dulwich.  The banquet
   was of a sumptuous character, and was provided from the Greyhound.
   After the usual loyal toasts, the warden proposed Mr. Pickwick's
   health in appropriate terms, to which that gentleman responded in an
   admirable speech, in which he reviewed some portions of his life.
   After stating how dear and near to his affection was the college and
   all that was concerned with it, he entered into some various details
   of Ralph Alleyne, who, as we all know, was an actor and connected with
   actors.  "I have already, by means of my researches, shown how
   strangely related he was to myself, being of the same family with an
   eminent physician in India, Mr. Benjamin Allen.  (Cheers.)  I, myself,
   have known actors--one who was known to his brethren as 'dismal
   Jemmy'--(loud laughter)--from, I suppose, the caste of characters he
   was always assuming.  Dismal Jemmy, however, had to leave the
   country--(laughter)--I will not say why."  (Roars of laughter.)
   Another actor whom he had known was one of the most remarkable men he
   had ever met, for talent and resources--would that he had confined his
   talent to its legitimate sphere, namely, on the _boards_--but,
   unfortunately, he had chosen to exert it at his, Mr. Pickwick's,
   expense.  (Loud laughter.)  This performer tried to live by his wits,
   as it is called, and he, Mr. Pickwick, had encountered him, and his
   wits, too and nearly always with success.  Mr. Over the ice,
   and over the snow; A horse or cart I do not fear.
   For past them both my sled I steer.
   
   [Illustration]
   Hurra! my boy! I'm going down, While you toil up; but never frown; The
   far hill-top you soon will gain, And then, with all your might and
   main,
   You'll dash by me; while, full of glee, I'll up again to dash by thee!
   
   So on we glide--O, life of joy; What pleasure has the glad school-boy!
   
   THE OLD OAKEN BUCKET.

   [Illustration: H]
   How dear to my heart are the scenes of my childhood, When fond
   recollection presents them to view; The orchard, the meadow, the
   deep-tangled wild-wood, And every loved spot which my infancy
   knew; The wide-spreading pond, and the mill that stood by it, The
   bridge, and the rock where the cataract fell; The cot of my father,
   the dairy-house nigh it, And e'en the rude bucket which hung in the
   well.
   The old oaken bucket--the iron-bound bucket-- The moss-covered bucket
   which hung in the well.
   
   That moss-covered vessel I hail as a treasure-- For often, at noon,
   when returned from the field, I found it the source of an exquisite
   pleasure, The purest and sweetest that nature can yield.
   How ardent I seized it, with hands that were glowing, And quick
   to the white-pebbled bottom it fell; Then soon, with the emblem
   of truth overflowing, And dripping with coolness, it rose from the
   well.
   The old oaken bucket--the iron-bound bucket-- The moss-covered
   bucket arose from the well.
   
   How sweet from the green mossy brim to receive it, As, poised on the
   curb, it inclined to my lips!
   Not a full, blushing goblet could tempt me to leave it, Though filled
   with the nectar that Jupiter sips.
   And now, far removed from that loved situation, The tear of regret
will intrusively swell, As fancy reverts to my father's plantation,
And sighs for the bucket which hangs in the well.

The old oaken bucket--the iron-bound bucket-- The moss-covered
bucket which hangs in the well.

   [Illustration]
   
   THE GOOD-NATURED GIRLS.
   
   [Illustration: T]
   Two good little girls, Julia-Ann and Maria, As happily lived as good
   girls could desire; And though they were neither grave, sullen, nor
   mute, They seldom or never were heard to dispute.
If one wants a thing that the other could get, They don't go to
scratching and fighting for it; But each one is willing to give up
her right, For they'd rather have nothing than quarrel and fight.
If one of them happens to have something nice, Directly she offers
her sister a slice; And not like to some greedy children I've known,
Who would go in a corner to eat it alone.
When papa or mamma had a thing to be clone, These good little girls
would immediately run; And not stand disputing to which it belonged,
And grumble and fret and declare they were wronged.
Whatever occurred in their work or their play, They were willing
to yield and give up their own way; Then let us all try their example
to mind, And always, like them, be obliging and kind.
"WHAT IS THAT, MOTHER?" 
"What is that, mother?"A week ago, Mr. Pickwick received a piteous letter, signed
   Tommy Bardell, saying that his mother was dying, and in the deepest
   distress, all their furniture sold, or pawned.  After making some
   inquiries, and finding that there was a woman in distress at the
   place, Mr. Pickwick sent the prisoner two sovereigns.  Within a
   fortnight he received a second application, saying that the unhappy
   woman's bed was being taken away, &c.; he sent another sovereign.  When
   he received a third application he thought it high time to put it into
   the hands of his man, Sam Weller, who made enquiries and found out
   there was no mother, Mrs. Bardell being long, long since dead.  His
   worship committed him to jail for six months as a vagabond, but, at
   Mr. Pickwick's request, reduced his sentence to two months.


II.--Mr. Pickwick's Funeral.


   The funeral _cortege_ left the Dell at ten o'clock, and was one of the
   most striking displays of public feeling that Dulwich has seen for
   many years.  And not only was Dulwich thus affected, but in Camberwell
   all the numerous shops were closed, and the inhabitants turned out in
   crowds.  The procession comprised many mourning coaches containing all
   Mr. Pickwick's oldest friends.  He had survived all his relations.
   Among the mourners were Mr. Wardle, of Dingley Dell, with his son-in-
   law, --- Trundle, Esq.; Mr. Tupman, who travelled specially from
   Richmond; Messrs. Winkle and Snodgrass, who had been his inseparable
   companions in his famous tours; and --- Perker, Esq., who was the
   deceased's legal adviser and confidential friend.  An interesting
   incident was the appearance among the mourners of an elderly
   gentleman, Mr. Peter Magnus, between whom and Mr. Pickwick, as we
   learn from his faithful servant, there had for many years been a cloud
   or misunderstanding on account of some lady whose marriage with Mr.
   Magnus Mr. Pickwick had unwittingly frustrated.  This injury, if
   injury there was, Mr. Magnus had buried in the grave, and had rushed
   to Dulwich to lend his heartfelt sympathy.  Such things go far to
   reconcile one to human nature, if such reconcilement be incumbent.  A
   deputation from the Dulwich Literary and Scientific Association, of
   which Mr. Pickwick was Perpetual President, walked in the procession.
   Passing the well-known Greyhound Inn, one of Mr. Pickwick's favourite
   haunts, it was noticed the blinds were drawn down.

   We copy from the _Eatanswill Gazette_ the following admirable tribute
   to Mr. Pickwick's merit, from the vigorous pen, as we understand, of
   its Editor, Mr. Pott:--"Not only in Dulwich, but in Eatanswill, is
   there mourning, to-day.  We have lost Pickwick--Pickwick the true and
   the Blue.  For Blue he was, to the very core and marrow of his bones,
   and it was we ourselves, who first permeated him with real Blue
   principles.  Many a time and oft has he sat at our feet, drinking in
   with rapture, almost, the stray scraps of immortal doctrine with which
   we favoured him.  Is it not an open secret that, but for Pickwick's
   exertions--exertions which laid the foundations of the disease which
   ultimately carried him off--our late admirable member, the Honourable
   Samuel Slumkey, would not have been returned?  The _Gazette_, it is
   true, first burst open the breach, in which Pickwick threw himself,
   waving his flag on high, and led us on to victory.  Of course, our
   verminous contemporary, the _Independent_, will scoff, and wipe its
   shoes on the illustrious dead.  Of course, the mangey creature--ceasing
   the while from its perennial self-scratching--will hoot something
   derogatory.  Let it sneer, yelp aloud in its impotent hog-like manner;
   let it root with its filthy snout among the heaps of garbage where it
   loves to make its unclean haunt in unspeakable Buffery.  'Twill not
   serve--the noisome fumes will stifle it."

   We regret to say that these prognostications of Mr. Pott's were but
   too soon, and too fatally realised, for in almost the next issue of
   the _Independent_, we find a scandalous and indecent attack on our
   late beloved Mr. Pickwick.  Shocking as it is, we cannot forbear, in
   duty to the deceased gentleman, presenting it to our readers--


"POTT'S PICKWICK."


   "Our emasculated contemporary, not content with debauching Eatanswill
   politics, must go far afield and drag from his grave an obscure and
   feeble being whom he claims to make one of his besmirched heroes.  But
   Potts' praise, as we have learned long since, is no more than daubing
   its object with dirt.  Why, this very Pickwick whom he belauds--can it
   be forgotten how Eatanswill shook its sides with laughter at the
   figure he made our besotted contemporary cut?  Who will forget Mr. Then
   you would rather depend upon the beauty of the work itself; if the
   work were beautiful, you would admit it?--Certainly.
   
   But if it were only historically interesting, would you then reject
   it?--Not in the least. I want it historically interesting, but I
   want as good an example as I can have of that particular manner.
   
Would it not be historically interesting if it were the only picture
known of that particular master, who was a follower of Giotto?And yet
   Pott with an ineffable effrontery that would do credit to a fishwife
   in and from Billingsgate, clamours about this Pickwick and his
   virtues, and drops his maudlin tears upon his coffin!  Why was he not
   there to give his hand to Mr. Lothario W---le, who, we understand, was
   also present?  By the way, we have received the following lines from a
   valued correspondent:--

   Your tears you may sprinkle
   O W---le, O W---le,
      With more of this same kind of rot.
   The lady so gay
   Could not say you nay,
      Merely bidding you '_Go to Pot_.'

   Our hide-bound contemporary, will not, of course, see the point--"

   We are grieved to say, that the indecent Eatanswill controversy over
   the lamented Mr. Pickwick still goes on.  More strictly speaking,
   however, he has dropped out of sight owing to the inflamed passions
   which have been roused between the editors.  Our sympathies are, we
   need not say, with Mr. Pott, still we wish he would somewhat temper
   his language, out of respect for the dead.  Here is his crushing
   retort--


"FILTH ON THE COFFIN."


   III. "The first period of the revival, in which the arts of
   Greece and some of its religion return and join themselves to
   Christianity; not taking away its sincerity or earnestness, but
   making it poetical instead of practical. In the following period
   even this poetical Christianity expired; the arts became devoted
   to the pursuit of pleasure, and in that they persist except where they
   are saved by a healthy naturalism or domesticity.
235. I. "The Lombardic period is one of savage but noble life
gradually subjected to law.Has our
   contemporary in mind a chastisement that was inflicted on him in the
   kitchen of a certain inn, and in the presence of Pickwick himself--has
   he forgotten the fire irons--or, to speak accurately, _the_ fire
   irons.  That bruise, we dare swear, is still raw.  But there are pole-
   cats who cannot divest themselves of their odour, do what they will,
   and this festering mass of decaying garbage, which goes by the name of
   _The Independent_, and which is unaccountably overlooked by the night
   men in their rounds, is fast breeding a pestilence in the pure air of
   Eatanswill."  This lamentable controversy still continues.



STRANGE INCIDENT.


   We noticed among the company at Mr. I would do the same were I in yours
   or his place. But, being situated as I am now, I cannot permit myself
   to disobey one iota of the law, for the very reason that I, too,
am no more than a man, and am liable to yield to pity.It turned out that
   his name was Trundle, and that he was one of the appointed
   pall-bearers, but that he had been unaccountably overlooked, and his
   place taken by someone else.  Mr. Trundle made no complaint, but our
   representative thought it his duty to mention the circumstance to Mr.
   Wardle, who, it appears, is his father-in-law, but who only smiled,
   good-humouredly saying "O, Trundle, to be sure.  [Illustration]
   R.M. is also engaged in publishing Toys for Children, suitable for
   Presents for Teachers and Parents, who will find a larger assortment
   of Toys and Children's Books, at his Store, that at any other place
in the State, and on the most liberal termsFootnotes:


{1}  Some years ago, as it is stated in Murray's Guide Book, most of the
old gabled houses disappeared.  They are shown in "Phiz's" picturesque
sketch.

{66}  "Oliver Twist" was begun in January, 1837, and Rose Maylie
introduced about July or August.  Mary Hogarth died on May 7th.

{68}  Mr. Wright lately possessed a most interesting copy, presented
number by number to Mary Hogarth by the author, up to No. 14, with this
inscription: "From hers affectionately, Charles Dickens."  The succeeding
numbers were given to her schoolfellow, Miss Walker.  Mr. Wright also
possessed the letter announcing her death.  How, then, is it possible for
me to watch a person who is five thousand miles distant from me? There
he is king, as I am here," and he began to laugh. "You have surely seen
the political prisoners. You have surely given them money," he added,
smiling.It is curious to notice that this phrase should recur in
Nickleby, it running, "My darling lad, who was taken ill last night, I
thought would have expired in my arms."

{84}  In a presentation copy of "Pickwick," given to Edward Chapman,
November 14th, 1839, he calls him and Hall "the best of booksellers,
past, present, or to come, and my trusty friends."