Produced by Taavi Kalju and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


Before the Dawn

A Story of the Fall of Richmond

By

JOSEPH A. ALTSHELER


NEW YORK
DOUBLEDAY, PAGE & COMPANY
1903


Copyright, 1903, by
Doubleday, Page & Company
Published April, 1903


OTHER BOOKS BY JOSEPH A. ALTSHELER


The Sun of Saratoga
A Soldier of Manhattan
A Herald of the West
The Last Rebel
In Circling Camps
In Hostile Red
The Wilderness Road
My Captive


For the rhyming pun, given by a member of The Mosaic Club, and quoted in
the third chapter of this book, the author is indebted to T. C. DeLeon's
"_Four Years in Rebel Capitals_."


CONTENTS


CHAPTER                                   PAGE

     I. A Woman in Brown                     3

    II. A Man's Mother                      16

   III. The Mosaic Club                     25

    IV. The Secretary Moves                 40

     V. An Elusive Face                     52

    VI. The Pursuit of a Woman              71

   VII. The Cottage in the Side Street      83

  VIII. The Pall of Winter                  97

    IX. Robert and Lucia                   117

     X. Feeding the Hungry                 131

    XI. Mr. Sefton Makes a Confidence      137

   XII. A Flight by Two                    150

  XIII. Lucia's Farewell                   162

   XIV. Prescott's Ordeal                  170

    XV. The Great Rivals                   181

   XVI. The Great Revival                  193

  XVII. The Wilderness                     204

 XVIII. Day in the Wilderness              206

   XIX. Night in the Wilderness            223

    XX. The Secretary Looks On             236

   XXI. A Delicate Situation               248

  XXII. The Lone Sentinel                  264

 XXIII. Out of the Forest                  269

  XXIV. The Despatch Bearer                280

   XXV. The Mountain General               292

  XXVI. Calypso                            300

 XXVII. The Secretary and the Lady         323

XXVIII. The Way Out                        334

  XXIX. The Fall of Richmond               346

   XXX. The Telegraph Station              360

  XXXI. The Coin of Gold                   370


BEFORE THE DAWN


CHAPTER I

A WOMAN IN BROWN


A tall, well-favoured youth, coming from the farther South, boarded the
train for Richmond one raw, gusty morning. He carried his left arm
stiffly, his face was thin and brown, and his dingy uniform had holes in
it, some made by bullets; but his air and manner were happy, as if,
escaped from danger and hardships, he rode on his way to pleasure and
ease.

He sat for a time gazing out of the window at the gray, wintry landscape
that fled past, and then, having a youthful zest for new things, looked
at those who traveled with him in the car. The company seemed to him, on
the whole, to lack novelty and interest, being composed of farmers going
to the capital of the Confederacy to sell food; wounded soldiers like
himself, bound for the same place in search of cure; and one woman who
sat in a corner alone, neither speaking nor spoken to, her whole aspect
repelling any rash advance.

Prescott always had a keen eye for woman and beauty, and owing to his
long absence in armies, where both these desirable objects were scarce,
his vision had become acute; but he judged that this lone type of her
sex had no special charm. Tall she certainly was, and her figure might
be good, but no one with a fair face and taste would dress as plainly as
she, nor wrap herself so completely in a long, brown cloak that he could
not even tell the colour of her eyes. Beautiful women, as he knew them,
always had a touch of coquetry, and never hid their charms wholly.

Prescott's attention wandered again to the landscape rushing past, but
finding little of splendour or beauty, it came back, by and by, to the
lone woman. He wondered why she was going to Richmond and what was her
name. She, too, was now staring out of the window, and the long cloak
hiding her seemed so shapeless that he concluded her figure must be bad.
His interest declined at once, but rose again with her silence and
evident desire to be left alone.

As they were approaching Richmond a sudden jar of the train threw a
small package from her lap to the floor. Prescott sprang forward, picked
it up and handed it to her. She received it with a curt "Thanks," and
the noise of the train was so great that Prescott could tell nothing
about the quality of her voice. It might or might not be musical, but in
any event she was not polite and showed no gratitude. If he had thought
to use the incident as an opening for conversation, he dismissed the
idea, as she turned her face back to the window at once and resumed her
study of the gray fields.

"Probably old and plain," was Prescott's thought, and then he forgot her
in the approach to Richmond, the town where much of his youth had been
spent. The absence of his mother from the capital was the only regret in
this happy homecoming, but he had received a letter from her assuring
him of her arrival in the city in a day or two.

When they reached Richmond the woman in the brown cloak left the car
before him, but he saw her entering the office of the Provost-Marshal,
where all passes were examined with minute care, every one who came to
the capital in those times of war being considered an enemy until proved
a friend. Prescott saw then that she was not only tall, but very tall,
and that she walked with a strong, graceful step. "After all, her figure
may be good," he thought, revising his recent opinion.

Her pass was examined, found to be correct, and she left the office
before his own time came. He would have asked the name on her pass, but
aware that the officer would probably tell him to mind his own business,
he refrained, and then forgot her in the great event of his return home
after so long a time of terrible war. He took his way at once to
Franklin Street, where he saw outspread before him life as it was lived
in the capital of the Confederate States of America. It was to him a
spectacle, striking in its variety and refreshing in its brilliancy, as
he had come, though indirectly, from the Army of Northern Virginia,
where it was the custom to serve half-rations of food and double rations
of gunpowder. Therefore, being young, sound of heart and amply furnished
with hope, he looked about him and rejoiced.

Richmond was a snug little town, a capital of no great size even in a
region then lacking in city growth, but for the time more was said about
it and more eyes were turned upon it than upon any other place in the
world. Many thousands of men were dying in an attempt to reach this
small Virginia city, and many other thousands were dying in an equally
strenuous effort to keep them away.

Such thoughts, however, did not worry Prescott at this moment. His face
was set resolutely toward the bright side of life, which is really half
the battle, and neither the damp nor the cold was able to take from him
the good spirits that were his greatest treasure. Coming from the bare
life of a camp and the somber scenes of battlefields, he seemed to have
plunged into a very whirlwind of gaiety, and his eyes sparkled with
appreciation. He did not notice then that his captain's uniform was
stained and threadbare enough to make him a most disreputable figure in
a drawing-room, however gallant he might appear at the head of a forlorn
hope.

The street was crowded, the pressure of the armies having driven much of
the life of the country into the city, and Prescott saw men, women and
children passing, some in rich and some in poor attire. He saw ladies,
both young and old, bearing in their cheeks a faint, delicate bloom, the
mark of the South, and he heard them as they spoke to each other in
their soft, drawling voices, which reminded him of the waters of a
little brook falling over a precipice six inches high.

It is said that soldiers, after spending a year or two in the serious
business of slaying each other, look upon a woman as one would regard a
divinity--a being to be approached with awe and respect; and such
emotions sprang into the heart of Prescott when he glanced into feminine
faces, especially youthful ones. Becoming suddenly conscious of his
rusty apparel and appearance, he looked about him in alarm. Other
soldiers were passing, some fresh and trim, some rusty as himself, but a
great percentage of both had bandaged limbs or bodies, and he found no
consolation in such company, wishing to appear well, irrespective of
others.

He noticed many red flags along the street and heard men calling upon
the people in loud, strident voices to come and buy. At other places the
grateful glow of coal fires shone from half-opened doorways, and the
faint but positive click of ivory chips told that games of chance were
in progress.

Had they derided him, like all others? Yes, that she had done, so he likes
it ihret and seinetwegen would have denied.

And yet he had only made in contemplation of their closeness> Moulinet
of dames <mitgetanzt. And what verschlug this? One would perhaps stop
laughing!

    Did not some magazine recently published
    a poem by him accepted
    if they also had been
    received before the poem
    was to appear?

It came the day he was famous, where everything has been printed, what
he wrote, and then you would see if there is no impression on Inge
Holm would make ... _keinen_ It would make an impression, no, that's
it, yes.

On propagation Magdalena, who always fell down, even on the. But never
on Inge Holm, never on the blue-eyed, funny Inge. And it was not in vain?
... Tonio Kröger heart painfully withdrew along with this idea. To
feel great playing and melancholic forces in thee rain, and to know that
those to whom you hinübersehnst them in unapproachability cheerful face,
it does hurt.

But although he lonely, excluded and without hope in front of a closed
blinds, and stood in his grief did hindurchblicken as he could, so he
was still happy. Because back then lived his heart.

Warm and sad it was for you, Ingeborg Holm, and his soul comprised
your blonde, bright and wanton ordinary little personality in
blissful self-denial.

More than once he stood with a heated face-to lonely places, where music,
flowers and fragrance Gläsergeklirr only quietly penetrated, and looked
into the distant fixed your noise sounding voice to differ was in pain
for you and was still happy. More than once it grieved him that he and
Magdalena propagation, which always fell down, could speak, that she
understood and laughed with him and was seriously, while the blonde
Inge, he sat beside her, his distant and strange, and seemed baffled
because its language was not their language, and yet he was happy.

Indeed, the happiness, he said, is not to be loved, it is a revulsion mixed
with appreciation for the vanity. Happiness is to love and perhaps small,
deceptive approaches to the beloved object erhaschen. And he wrote
these ideas internally at thought it completely, and felt him to
the ground.

_Treue_! thought Tonio Kröger. I will be faithful and love you, Ingeborg,
as long as I live! So he was wohlmeinend. And yet he whispered in a
quiet fear and grief, that he even Hans Hansen totally forgot, even
though he saw him daily. And it was ugly and pitiful that it quiet and a
little gloating voice kept quite, that the time passed and day came, as
Tonio Kröger not as strictly as the formerly cheerful Inge was
ready to die because he lust and power in itself felt in his own
way in the world a lot of strange to make.

And, he gently orbited the sacrificial altar, on which the pure and
chaste blazing flame of his love, knelt in front of it and stoked
and fed it to all the way, because he is loyal to his wanted.

And in a while, imperceptibly, without fuss and noise, she was nevertheless
extinguished.

But Tonio Kröger stood still for a time before the altar cooled, fully
amazement and disappointment that loyalty on earth was impossible.

Then he jerked the armpits and went his way. III He went the way that
he had to go, a little carelessly and unevenly, whistling to
himself, with his head bent sideways, looking into the distance,
and if he irreging, it happened because it for quite a few one way
does not exist.

Asked him what in the world he imagined to be, so he gave varying
advice, because he used to say (and it had also already recorded), the
possibility that he lives a thousand forms in itself, together
with the secret consciousness, that it is in fact louder Impossibilities
are ...

Even before the close of his father resigned the city, were quiet and
the brackets solved threads with which they held him. The old family
of Kröger was gradually into a state of erosion and decomposition
advised, and the people had reason to Tonio Kröger His own nature
and also to the characteristics of this condition can be expected.

His father's mother had died, the head of the sex and not that long,
then followed his father, the long, meaningful question, carefully
dressed gentleman with the flower box in the buttonhole, after her
death.

The big house stood Krögersche with its tribute to the history of sales,
and the company was wiped out. Tonios mother, however, his beautiful,
passionate mother, who so wonderfully the wing and played the
mandolin and everything was making a very, married after a year
anew, with a musician, a virtuoso with an Italian name, the blue
in the Far followed.

Tonio Kröger found this a little dissolute, but _er_ was invoked to defend
it? He wrote verses and could not even answer, what on earth he thought
to be ... And he left the angular hometown, whose pediment the moist
whistling wind, leaving the fountain and the old Walnußbaum in the
garden, the confidant of his youth, also left the sea, which he loved
so much, and felt no pain there. Because he was big and become wise,
had realized what an explanation it had with him, and was full of
derision for the vulgar and low general that made him so long in
its midst had.

He was quite the power to him as the exalted in the earth appeared to
whose service he felt called, and he promised to honor and sovereignty,
the power of the Spirit and word, the smile on the silent and
unconscious life is enthroned.

With his young passion he showed her and she rewarded him with everything
she has to give, and took him all of this merciless, as what they
pay to take care. They sharpened his gaze and let him understand the big
words, the human billow bosom, she opened it for human souls and
his own, made hells above him and showed him the inside of the world
and everything last thing behind the words and deeds is.

What he saw was this: the comedy and misery - the comedy and misery.
Then, with the anguish and the pride of knowledge, solitude, because it's
among the innocent with the joyful dark sense not suffered and the time
they disturbed his forehead. But more and more sweetened to him
the joy of words and the shape, because he used to say (and it had
also already written) that the knowledge of the soul alone infallible
blue would make, if not the pleasures of the expression us awake and
cheerfully received ...

He lived in big cities and in the south, from which the sun is a rich,
he tires of his art promised, and perhaps it was the blood of his mother,
which drew him there. But because his heart is dead and without love,
so he adventures in the flesh, grew deep down into hot lust and guilt,
and suffered untold here.

Maybe it was the inheritance of his father in him, the long, meaningful
question, cleanly dressed man with the flower in the buttonhole field
that made him suffer so there was a weak and sometimes, yearning
memories in him is let to a lively desire of the soul, the once his own
had been, he and the chandeliers are not all in again.

A revulsion and hatred against the meaning seized him and a Lechzen
after wohlanständigem peace and purity, while the air he breathed the
arts, the mild and sweet, duftgeschwängerte airspace of spring constant,
in which it pushes and brews and germinates in secret delight procreation.
So it was only then that he blatantly unfounded between extremes, between
spirituality and icier consuming of Sinnenglut thrown back and
forth in an exhaustive conscience troubles life led a ausbündiges,
excesses and extraordinary life, he, Tonio Kröger, basically abhorred.

Welch Irrgang! he thought sometimes. How was it possible that I am in
all of these adventures became eccentric? I am not a gypsy in a green
car, from home ... But to the extent that his health was weakened,
deteriorated his body artist, was selective, exquisite, precious, delicate,
irritable Banale against the highest and on sensitive issues of
the bar and taste.

When he hervortrat for the first time, was among those who are concerned,
a lot of joy and loud applause, because it was a valuable thing worked,
what he had delivered, full of humor and knowledge of suffering.

And quickly became its name, the same, with whom he once called his teacher
scheltend had the same, with his first rhymes at the Walnußbaum,
the fountains and the sea had signed, that from South and North Klang
compound, these exotic touch citizens name to a formula, called the
excellence, for the thoroughness of his painful experiences joined
a rare, tough and endure ehrsüchtiger diligence in the fight with the
selective tastes of his irritability under fierce torments gave unusual
works. He did not like someone who works to live, but as one who wants
nothing than to work, because he is a living human respect for nothing,
just as creative artists in question wants to come and the rest
gray and inconspicuous umhergeht how a Abgeschminkt actor, who is
nothing as long as he has presented nothing.

He worked silently, completed, and full of hidden contempt for those
little ones, where the talent was a sociable jewelry, which, whether
they were rich or poor, wild and demolished or undergone personal
ties with the top luxury, primarily happy, loving and artistically
to live deliberately, ignorant that good works only under the
pressure of a terrible life is that he who lives, not working, and
that one must have died, to be a sheep on his Fender.

IV »sturgeons I?" asked Tonio Kröger on the threshold of the studio. He
held his hat in his hand and even bowed a little, although his
girlfriend Lisaweta Ivanovna, was everything he said.

"Mercy you, Tonio Kröger, and come into it without ceremony," she replied,
with its emphasis on jumping. "It is known that a good nursery enjoyed
and know what to send." They put her brush to the palette in the left
hand, gave him the right and looked at him and laughing kopfschüttelnd
in the face. "Yes, but They work, "he said. "Let see ... Oh, you have
come forward. "And he looked alternately colored sketches, to both sides
of the easel on chairs refused, and the large, with a square route
covered canvas, on which, in the tangled and coal schematic design,
the first color oblivion began.

It was in Munich, in a building of the readmission Schellingstraße
several stairs high. Outside, behind the Northern Lights-wide window,
the sky was blue, birds and sunshine, and the young spring, sweet breath,
through an open door hereinströmte, mingled with the smell of oil
paint fixative and the wide working space filled.

Freely flooded the golden light of the bright afternoon, the
baldness of the large studios, frank beschien a little damaged floor,
raw, with bottles, tubes and brush-covered table beneath the window and
unframed untapezierten studies at the walls, the wall beschien chapped
silk screen , near the door a small, stylishly furnished living room and
Mußewinkel limited, the expectant beschien work on the easel and,
previously, the painter and poet. you liked about as old as he is
a little beyond the Thirty.

In their dark blue, blemished apron dress she sat on a low stool and
backed his chin in his hand. Your brown hair, solid hair on the sides
and even slightly hoary, covered in soft waves crest their temples,
and gave the frame to its brunettes, Slavic-shaped, infinitely
sympathetic face with the blunt nose, the sharp cheekbones and
identified the small, black, bright eyes .

Curious, suspicious and irritated, as they mustered oblique gaze and pinched
her work ... He stood beside her, held his right hand into the hip
gestemmt and turned to the left hurriedly at his brown mustache. His
oblique brows were dark and initiated a movement, while he softly
whistled to himself, as usual. He was extremely careful and dignified,
dressed in a suit by a calm and reserved section gray. But in working
through his forehead, over his dark hair so extraordinarily simple
and correct itself scheitelte was a nervous twitching, and the
outline of his face cut south were already sharply, from a hard
pencil, and almost pulled after pronounced, but during his mouth
so gently outlined his chin which seemed so soft ...

After a while he pointed with his hand on forehead and eyes and turned
away. "I would not come," he said. "Why would you not, Tonio Kröger?"
"That I stand by my work, Lisaweta, and in my head it looks exactly
like on this screen. A skeleton, a pale, soiled draft of revisions and
a few patches, yes, and now I come here and see the same thing. And the
conflict and contrast, I think here again, "he said, and sniffed into
the air," the tormented me at home. Strange it is. Shows you an
idea, then you will find it expressed everywhere, you _riechst_
him even in the wind.

Fixative and Frühlingsarom, is not it? Art and - yes, what is the other?
Do not say> Nature <Lisaweta,> nature <is not exhaustive.

Oh, no, I would probably prefer to walk, although the question is whether
I would have found it more comfortable! Before five minutes, not
far from here, I met a colleague, Adalbert, the novel lists. > God damn
spring! <He said in his aggressive style. > It is and will remain the
dreadful season!

Can you take a sensible idea, Kröger, you can use the smallest point
and effect Gelassenheit elaborate, if you on a indecent manner in
the blood and tickles a lot of unzugehörigen sensations you worried
that when they examine themselves as off-trivial and turn completely
useless stuff?

As for me, so now I go into the café. It is neutral, from the change of
seasons untouched territory, you know, the sort that is removed and a
sublime realm of Literature, in which we only make incursions capable
... <And he went to the café, and perhaps I should respond to .
«Lisaweta be amused."

That is good, Tonio Kröger. With the> improper tingling <is good. And
he has quite a sense yes, because with the work it really is not ordered
in the spring. But now enter eight. Now, do I still have this little
thing here, this little point and effect, such as Adalbert would say.
After we go to the 'salon' and drink tea, and you speak of, because I
see it exactly that you are now loaded. Until then grouped up somewhere,
for example on the box because if you do not patrician robes for
your fear ... "" Oh, leave me with my robes in Ruh ', Lisaweta
Ivanovna!

Anyway, if you think that I have a torn Sammetjacke or rotseidenen vest
umherliefe? One is as an artist always inwardly adventurers enough.
Externally it is good to attract the devil, and to behave like a decent
person ... No, I'm not loaded, "he said and watched as they appear on the
palette a mixture prepared.

"They hear indeed that there is only one problem, and contrast is what
is the meaning to me and I was bothered at work ...

Yes, what we just said? By Adalbert, the Novel lists, and what a proud
and solid man he is. > The spring season is terrible, "he said and walked
into the cafe. Because you must know what you want, is not it? You see,
even the spring makes me nervous, even me, the Holde triviality of
memories and feelings that he evokes, in confusion, only that I
did not win me over, to scold him and despise, because the thing
is that I am ashamed before him, I am ashamed before his pure
naturalness and his victorious youth.

And I do not know if I envy or Adalbert low value to ensure that he
knows nothing about it ...

It works poorly in the spring, certainly, and why? Because it feels.
And because Stümper is one who believes that creators should feel. Each
genuine and sincere artist smiles on the naivety of this bungler-error,
- melancholy perhaps, but he smiles. For what they say, may indeed
never be the main thing, but only in and of itself indifferent
material from which the aesthetic formations in and playing together
is serene superiority.

Are you too much to what you have to say, your heart too warm for
this, so you can a complete fiasco safe.

They are pathetic, you are sentimental, a bit heavy, Täppisch-serious,
uncontrolled, Unironisches, unseasoned, boring, banal arises under
your hands, and nothing but apathy for the people, nothing but
disappointment and misery for yourself is the end .. .

Because it is so, Lisaweta: The feeling of the warm, welcoming
feeling is always banal and useless, and artistically are merely
irritated and cold ecstasies of our corrupt, our artistic nervous
system.

It is necessary that something Außermenschliches and inhuman is that the
human in a strange and distant bystanders standing relationship
to a position and generally tries to be there to play, to play with
it effectively and tastefully presented.

The talent for style, form and expression is already so cool and picky
relative to human, yes, a degree of human poverty and degradation
ahead. Because that feeling healthy and strong, while it remains, has
no taste. It is made with the artist, once he is man and begins to
feel. The Adalbert knew, and that's why he went into the cafe, in
the> sphere reverie, "yes!" "Well, God with him, Batuschka" said
Lisaweta and washed their hands in a tin tub, "You do not need him to
follow. "No, Lisaweta, I follow him, and only because I sometimes am
able to me before the spring of my artistry a little ashamed. You
see, sometimes I get letters from foreign hands, praise and thanksgiving
letter from my audience, letters taken bewunderungsvolle people.

I read these letters, and moved easily procure me the face of the clumsy
and warm human feeling, the effect of my art here has a kind of compassion
towards me summarizes the enthusiastic naivety, which speaks from the
line, and I blush at the thought of how this very honest man ought
to be disenchanted, if he ever catch a glimpse behind the scenes would
do if his innocence ever terms that an honest, healthy and decent
human beings do not write, mimes, composed ... everything does not
preclude that I share his admiration for my genius use to me to
enhance and stimulate that I take it seriously huge and will make
a face like a monkey who plays the big man ...

Ah, you talk to me not burned, Lisaweta! I tell you that I am often
sterbensmüde, depict the human without the human part ... If the artist
ever a man? You ask> the wife <then! It seems to me we are all artists
share a little of the fate prepared papal singer ... We sing quite
beautifully touching. But - "" You should be a bit ashamed, Tonio
Kröger. Come to tea now. The water is equal to cook, and here are
Papyros. When soprano singing, you were stopped, and go there only
continue. But you should be ashamed of themselves.

If I do not know, how proud your passion occupations are revealed ... ""
Say nothing of> occupation <Lisaweta Ivanovna! The literature is
not an occupation, but a curse - that's you know.

When he begins to be felt, this curse? Early, awfully early. At a time
when we still cheap in peace and harmony with God and the world should
live. They are beginning to be drawn up in a puzzling contrast to the
other, the ordinary, the ordinary to feel the abyss of irony,
disbelief, opposition, cognition, emotion, the people from the
separating gap deeper and deeper, you are lonely, and now there are
not more understanding.

What a fate!

Put that the heart of lively enough, enough remained _liebevoll_
it as awful to feel ... Your self-confidence ignites, because you are
among thousands in the character feel your forehead and feel that
no one escapes.

I knew an actor of genius, a man with a pathological bias instability and
had to struggle. His overwrought Ichgefühl together with the lack of
role of actors responsible for this effect, the perfect artist and
impoverished people ... an artist, a genuine, not one whose
professional bourgeois art is but a pre-and damn, can be found
low-Up View of a crowd.

The feeling of separation and Unzugehörigkeit, of Detected and Beobachtetseins
something both Royal and publisher is in his face. In the outline
of a prince, in a civil proceeding popular quantity, one can observe
something similar.

But since no civilian help, Lisaweta!

Dressing up, disguise yourself, pull up like a attaché or a vacation Guard
lieutenant in: you will hardly aufzuschlagen the eyes and speak
a word to need, and everyone will know that you are not man, but something
strange, strange, different ...

But _was ist_ the artist? Before any question, the convenience and
inertia of human cognition is proved tougher than this. > Likewise
dose is <, humbly say the good people who are under the effect of
an artist, and as serene and sublime effects after her good-natured
expression is also very serene and sublime origins have, so no one
suspects that this is perhaps to an extremely bad conditioned,
highly questionable> Gabe <act ...

We know that artists are easily vulnerable - well, you also know
that this is for people with good conscience founded and solid
self-esteem is not declared maintains ...

You see, Lisaweta, I have at the bottom of my soul - to the Mental
transferred - against the type of artist the whole _Verdacht_ that
everyone in my firm honor ancestors up there in the narrow city
abenteuernden any jugglers and artists have expressed that in his
house would have.

Listen to the following. I know a banker, a graying businessman who
owns the gift, to write novels.

He makes use of this gift in his leisure use, and his works are
sometimes quite excellent. Despite - and I say> despite <- this
sublime predisposition is this man not entirely integrity he has,
on the contrary, already a heavy custodial sentence had to serve,
and for good reasons.

Yes, it really only happened entirely in the prison that his talent was
inne, convict and his experiences form the basic motif in all his
productions.

One might, with some pertness, concluded that it was necessary in any
kind of prison to be at home to the poet to be. But pushing is not
suspected that his experiences in prison is less closely with the
roots and origins of its artists have been deformed shank want _das than
what it hineinbrachte_? - A banker who writes novels, this is a rarity,
is not it?

But a criminal is not an integrity and solid banker who writes novels, -
_das not vor_ ... Yes, you laugh now, but I only half joke and half no
problem, none in the world, is excruciating than by the artistry and
its human impact.

This girl showed a sinuous grace when she walked and she
seemed to Prescott singularly self-contained.

He sprang to his feet at once and took her hand in the usual Southern
fashion, making a compliment upon her appearance, also in the usual
Southern fashion. Then he realized that she had ceased to be a little
girl in all other respects as well as in the physical.

"I have heard that gallantry in the face of the ladies as well as of the
foe is part of a soldier's trade, Robert," she replied.

"And you do not know which requires the greater daring."

"But I know which your General ought to value the more."

After this she was serious. Neither of the younger people spoke much,
but left the thread of the talk to Mrs. Prescott, who had a great deal
to say. The elder woman, for all her gentleness and apparent timidity,
had a bold spirit that stood in no awe of the high and mighty. She was
full of curiosity about the war and plied her son with questions.

"We in Richmond know little that is definite of its progress," she said.
"The Government announces victories and no defeats. But tell me, Robert,
is it true, as I hear, that in the knapsacks of the slain Southern
soldiers they find playing-cards, and in those of the North, Bibles?"

"If the Northern soldiers have Bibles, they do not use them," said
Helen.

"And if the Southern soldiers have playing-cards, they do use them,"
said Mrs. Prescott.

Robert laughed.

"I daresay that both sides use their cards too much and their Bibles too
little," he said.

"Do not be alarmed, Robert," said his mother; "such encounters between
Helen and myself are of a daily occurrence."

"And have not yet resulted in bloodshed," added Miss Harley.

Prescott watched the girl while his mother talked, and he seemed to
detect in her a certain aloofness as far as he was concerned, although
he was not sure that the impression was not due to his absence so long
from the society of women. It gave him a feeling of shyness which he
found difficult to overcome, and which he contrasted in his own mind
with her ease and indifference of manner.

When she asked him of her brother, Colonel Harley, the brilliant cavalry
commander, whose exploits were recounted in Richmond like a romance, she
showed enthusiasm, her eyes kindling with fire, and her whole face
vivid. Her pride in her brother was large and she did not seek to
conceal it.

"I hear that he is considered one of the best cavalry leaders of the
age," she said, and she looked questioningly at Prescott.

"There is no doubt of it," he replied, but there was such a lack of
enthusiasm in his own voice that his mother looked quickly at him. Helen
did not notice. She was happy to hear the praises of her brother, and
she eagerly asked more questions about him--his charge at this place,
the famous ruse by which he had beaten the Yankees at that place, and
the esteem in which he was held by General Lee; all of which Prescott
answered readily and with pleasure. Mrs. Prescott looked smilingly at
Miss Harley.

"It does not seem fair for a girl to show such interest in a brother,"
she said. "Now, if it were a lover it would be all right."

"I have no lover, Mrs. Prescott," replied Helen, a slight tint of pink
appearing in her cheeks.

"It may be so," said the older woman, "but others are not like you."
Then after a pause she sighed and said: "I fear that the girls of '61
will show an unusually large crop of old maids."

She spoke half humourously of what became in reality a silent but great
tragedy, especially in the case of the South.

The war was prominent in the minds of the two women. Mrs. Prescott had
truly said that knowledge of it in Richmond was vague. Gettysburg, it
was told, was a great victory, the fruits of which the Army of Northern
Virginia, being so far from its base, was unable to reap; moreover, the
Army of the West beyond a doubt had won a great triumph at Chickamauga,
a battle almost as bloody as Gettysburg, and now the Southern forces
were merely taking a momentary rest, gaining fresh vigour for victories
greater than any that had gone before.

Nevertheless, there was a feeling of depression over Richmond. Bread was
higher, Confederate money was lower; the scarcity of all things needed
was growing; the area of Southern territory had contracted, the Northern
armies were coming nearer and nearer, and a false note sometimes rang in
the gay life of the capital.

Prescott answered the women as he best could, and, though he strove to
keep a bold temper, a tone of gloom like that which afflicted Richmond
appeared now and then in his replies. He was sorry that they should
question him so much upon these subjects. He was feeling so good, and it
was such a comfort to be there in Richmond with his own people before a
warm fire, that the army could be left to take care of itself for
awhile. Nevertheless, he understood their anxiety and permitted no show
of hesitation to appear in his voice. Miss Harley presently rose to go.
The clouds had come again and a soft snow was falling.

"I shall see you home," said Prescott. "Mother, will you lend me an
umbrella?"

Mrs. Prescott laughed softly.

"We don't have umbrellas in Richmond now!" she replied. "The Yankees
make them, not we, and they are not selling to us this year."

"Mother," said Prescott, "if the Yankees ever crush us it will be
because they make things and we don't. Their artillery, their rifles,
their ammunition, their wagons, their clothes, everything that they have
is better than ours."

"But their men are not," said Helen, proudly.

"Nevertheless, we should have learned to work with our hands," said
Prescott.

They slipped into the little garden, now bleak with winter waste. Helen
drew a red cloak about her shoulders, which Prescott thought singularly
becoming. The snow was falling gently and the frosty air deepened the
scarlet in her cheeks. The Harley house was only on the other side of
the garden and there was a path between the two. The city was now
silent. Nothing came to their ears save the ringing of a church bell.

"I suppose this does not seem much like war to you," said Helen.

"I don't know," replied Robert. "Just now I am engaged in escorting a
very valuable convoy from Fort Prescott to Fort Harley, and there may be
raiders."

"And here may come one now," she responded, indicating a horseman, who,
as he passed, looked with admiring eyes over the fence that divided the
garden from the sidewalk. He was a large man, his figure hidden in a
great black cloak and his face in a great black beard growing bushy and
unkempt up to his eyes. A sword, notable for its length, swung by his
side.

Prescott raised his hand and gave a salute which was returned in a
careless, easy way. But the rider's bold look of admiration still rested
on Helen Harley's face, and even after he had gone on he looked back to
see it.

"You know him?" asked Helen of Robert.

"Yes, I know him and so do you."

"If I know him I am not aware of it."

"That is General Wood."

Helen looked again at the big, slouching figure disappearing at the
corner. The name of Wood was famous in the Confederacy. The greatest of
all the cavalry commanders in a service that had so many, a born
military genius, he was an illiterate mountaineer, belonging to that
despised, and often justly despised, class known in the South as "poor
white trash." But the name of Wood was now famous in every home of the
revolting States. It was said that he could neither read nor write, but
his genius flamed up at the coming of war as certainly as tow blazes at
the touch of fire. Therefore, Helen looked after this singular man with
the deepest interest and curiosity.

"And that slouching, awkward figure is the great Wood!" she said.

"He is not more slouching and awkward than Jackson was."

"I did not mean to attack him," she said quickly.

She had noticed Wood's admiring glance. In fact, it brought a tint of
red to her cheeks, but she was not angry. They were now at her own door.

"I will not ask you to come in," she said, "because I know that your
mother is waiting for you."

"But you will some other time?"

"Yes, some other time."

When he returned to his own house Mrs. Prescott looked at him
inquiringly but said nothing.


CHAPTER III

THE MOSAIC CLUB


Prescott was a staff officer and a captain, bearing a report from the
Commander of the Army of Northern Virginia to the President of the
Confederacy; but having been told in advance that it was perfunctory in
its nature, and that no haste was necessary in its delivery, he waited
until the next morning before seeking the White House, as the residence
of the President was familiarly called at Richmond, in imitation of
Washington. This following of old fashions and old ways often struck
Prescott as a peculiar fact in a country that was rebelling against
them.

"If we succeed in establishing a new republic," he said to himself, "it
will be exactly like the one that we quit."

He was told at the White House that the President was then in conference
with the Secretary of War, but Mr. Sefton would see him. He had heard
often of Mr. Sefton, whose place in the Government was not clearly
defined, but of whose influence there was no doubt. He was usually known
as the Secretary. "The Secretary of what?" "The Secretary of
everything," was the reply.

Mr. Sefton received Prescott in a large dark room that looked like a
workshop. Papers covered the tables and others were lying on the floor,
indicating the office of a man who worked. The Secretary himself was
standing in the darkest corner--a thin, dark, rather small man of about
forty, one who seemed to be of a nervous temperament ruled by a strong
will.

Prescott remembered afterward that throughout the interview the
Secretary remained in the shadow and he was never once able to gain a
clear view of his face. He found soon that Mr. Sefton, a remarkable man
in all respects, habitually wore a mask, of which the mere shadow in a
room was the least part.

Prescott gave his report, and the Secretary, after reading it
attentively, said in a singularly soft voice:

"I have heard of you, Captain Prescott. I believe that you distinguished
yourself in the great charge at Gettysburg?"

"Not more than five thousand others."

"At least you came out of the charge alive, and certainly five thousand
did not do that."

Prescott looked at him suspiciously. Did he mean to cast some slur upon
his conduct? He was sorry he could not see the Secretary's face more
clearly, and he was anxious also to be gone. But the great man seemed to
have another object in view.

"I hear that there is much discontent among the soldiers," said Mr.
Sefton in a gentle, sympathetic voice. "They complain that we should
send them supplies and reinforcements, do they not?"

"I believe I have heard such things said," reluctantly admitted
Prescott.

"Then I have not been misinformed. This illustrates, Captain, the lack
of serious reflection among the soldiers. A soldier feels hungry. He
wants a beefsteak, soft bread and a pot of coffee. He does not see them
and at once he is angry. He waves his hand and says: 'Why are they not
here for me?' The Government does not own the secret of Arabian magic.
We cannot create something where nothing is."

Prescott felt the Secretary gazing at him as if he alone were to blame
for this state of affairs. Then the door opened suddenly and several men
entered. One, tall, thin and severe of countenance, the typical Southern
gentleman of the old school, Prescott recognized at once as the
President of the Confederacy. The others he inferred were members of his
Cabinet, and he rose respectfully, imitating the example of Mr. Sefton,
but he did not fail to notice that the men seemed to be disturbed.

"A messenger from General Lee, Mr. President," said Mr. Sefton, in his
smooth voice. "He repeats his request for reinforcements."

The worried look of the President increased. He ran his hand across his
brow.

"I cannot furnish them," he said. "It is no use to send any more such
requests to me. Even the conscription will not fill up our armies unless
we take the little boys from their marbles and the grandfathers from
their chimney-corners. I doubt whether it would do so then."

Mr. Sefton bowed respectfully, but added nothing to his statement.

"The price of gold has gone up another hundred points, Mr. Sefton," said
the President. "Our credit in Europe has fallen in an equal ratio and
our Secretary of State has found no way to convince foreign governments
that they are undervaluing us."

Prescott looked curiously at the Secretary of State--it was the first
time that he had ever seen him--a middle-aged man with broad features of
an Oriental cast. He it was to whom many applied the words "the brains
of the Confederacy." Now he was not disturbed by the President's evident
annoyance.

"Why blame me, Mr. President?" he said. "How long has it been since we
won a great victory? Our credit is not maintained here in Richmond nor
by our agents in Europe, but on the battlefield."

Mr. Sefton looked at Prescott as if to say: "Just as I told you."
Prescott thought it strange that they should speak so plainly before
him, a mere subordinate, but policy might be in it, he concluded on
second thought. They might desire their plain opinion to get back
informally to General Lee. There was some further talk, all of which
they seemed willing for him to hear, and then they returned to the inner
room, taking Mr. Sefton, who bade Prescott wait.

The Secretary returned in a half-hour, and taking Prescott's arm with an
appearance of great familiarity and friendliness, said:

"I shall walk part of the way with you, if you will let me, Captain
Prescott. The President asks me to say to you that you are a gallant
soldier and he appreciates your services. Therefore, he hopes that you
will greatly enjoy your leave of absence in Richmond."

Prescott flushed with pleasure. He liked a compliment and did not deem
it ignoble to show his pleasure. He was gratified, too, at the
confidence that the Secretary, a man whose influence he knew was not
exaggerated, seemed to put in him, and he thanked him sincerely.

So they walked arm in arm into the street, and those who met them raised
their hats to the powerful Secretary, and incidentally to Prescott also,
because he was with Mr. Sefton.

"If we win," said Mr. Sefton, "Richmond will become a great city--one of
the world's capitals."

"Yes--if we win," replied Prescott involuntarily.

"Why, you don't think that we shall lose, do you?" asked the Secretary
quickly.

Prescott was confused and hesitated. He regretted that he had spoken any
part of his thoughts, and felt that the admission had been drawn from
him, but now thought it better to be frank than evasive.

"Napoleon said that Providence was on the side of the heaviest
battalions," he replied, "and therefore I hope ours will increase in
weight soon."

The Secretary did not seem to be offended, leaning rather to the other
side as he commended the frankness of the young Captain's speech. Then
he began to talk to him at great length about the army, its condition,
its prospects and the spirit of the soldiers. He revealed a knowledge of
the camp that surprised Prescott and aroused in him admiration mingled
with a lingering distrust.

Mr. Sefton seemed to him different, indeed, from the average Southerner.
Very few Southern men at that time sought to conceal their feelings.
Whatever their faults they were open, but Mr. Sefton wore his mask
always. Prescott's mind went back unconsciously to the stories he had
read of the agile Italian politicians of the Middle Ages, and for a
moment paused at the doctrine of reincarnation. Then he was ashamed of
himself. He was wronging Mr. Sefton, an able man devoted to the Southern
cause--as everybody said.

They stopped just in front of Mrs. Prescott's house.

"You live here?" said the Secretary. "I know your mother. I cannot go
in, but I thank you. And Miss Harley lives in the next house. I know
her, too--a spirited and beautiful woman. Good-day, Captain Prescott; I
shall see you again before you return to the army."

He left Prescott and walked back toward the White House. The young
captain entered his own home, thinking of what he had seen and heard,
and the impression remained that he had given the Secretary full
information about the army.

Prescott received a call the next morning from his new friend Talbot.

"You are invited to a meeting of the Mosaic Club to-night at the house
of Mrs. Markham," he said.

"And what is the Mosaic Club?" asked Prescott.

"The Mosaic is a club without organization, by-laws or members!" replied
Talbot. "It's just the choice and congenial spirits of Richmond who have
got into the habit of meeting at one another's houses. They're worth
knowing, particularly Mrs. Markham, the hostess to-night. She heard of
you and told me to invite you. Didn't write you a note--stationery's too
high."

Prescott looked doubtfully at his mother.

"Why, of course you'll go," she said. "You did not come home to sit here
all the time. I would not have you do that."

Talbot called for him shortly after dusk and the two strolled together
toward the street where the Markham residence stood.

"Richmond is to be a great capital some day," said Talbot as they walked
on, "but, if I may use the simile, it's a little ragged and
out-at-elbows now."

This criticism was drawn from him by a misstep into the mud, but he
quickly regained the ill-paved sidewalk and continued his course with
unbroken cheerfulness. The night was dark, the few and widely scattered
street lamps burned dimly, and the city loomed through the dusk,
misshapen and obscure.

"Do you know," said Talbot, "I begin to believe that Richmond wouldn't
amount to much of a town in the North?"

"It would not," replied Prescott; "but we of the South are agricultural
people. Our pride is in the country rather than the towns."

A cheerful light shone from the windows of the Markham house as they
approached it. When they knocked at the door it was opened by a coloured
servant, and they passed into a large room, already full of people who
were talking and laughing as if they had known one another all their
lives. Prescott's first glimpse was of Helen Harley in a flowered silk
dress, and he felt a thrill of gladness. Then he was presented to his
hostess, Mrs. Markham, a small woman, very blonde, bright in attire and
wearing fine jewels. She was handsome, with keen features and brilliant
eyes.

"You are from General Lee's camp," she said, "and it is a Yankee bullet
that has enabled you to come here. If it were not for those Yankee
bullets we should never see our brave young officers; so it's an ill
ball that brings nobody good."

She smiled into his eyes, and her expression was one of such great
friendliness and candour that Prescott liked her at once. She held him
and Talbot a few moments longer with light talk, and then he passed on.

It was a large room, of much width and greater length, containing heavy
mahogany furniture, while the floor was carpeted in dark colours. The
whole effect would have been somber without the presence of so many
people, mostly young, and the cheerful fire in the grate glowing redly
across the shades of the carpet.

There were a half-dozen men, some in uniform and some in civilian garb,
around Helen Harley, and she showed all a young girl's keen and natural
delight in admiration and in the easy flow of talk. Both Raymond and
Winthrop were in the circle, and so was Redfield, wearing a black frock
coat of unusual length and with rings on his fingers. Prescott wondered
why such a man should be a member of this group, but at that moment some
one dropped a hand upon his shoulder and, turning, he beheld the tall
figure of Colonel Harley, Helen's brother.

"I, too, have leave of absence, Prescott," he said, "and what better
could a man do than spend it in Richmond?"

Harley was a large, fair man, undeniably handsome, but with a slight
expression of weakness about the mouth. He had earned his military
reputation and he visibly enjoyed it.

"Where could one find a more brilliant scene than this?" continued the
Colonel. "Ah, my boy, our Southern women stand supreme for beauty and
wit!"

Prescott had been present before the war, both in his own country and in
others, at occasions far larger and far more splendid; but none
impressed him like the present, with the never-failing contrast of camp
and battlefield from which he had come. There was in it, too, a singular
pathos that appealed to his inmost heart. Some of the women wore dresses
that had belonged to their mothers in their youth, the attire of the men
was often strange and variegated, and nearly half the officers present
had empty sleeves or bandaged shoulders. But no one seemed to notice
these peculiarities by eye or speech, nor was their gaiety assumed; it
was with some the gradual contempt of hardship brought about by use and
with others the temporary rebound from long depression.

"Come," said Talbot to his friend, "you must meet the celebrities.
Here's George Bagby, our choicest humourist; Trav. Daniel, artist, poet
and musician; Jim Pegram, Innes Randolph, and a lot more."

Prescott was introduced in turn to Richmond's most noted men of wit and
manners, the cream of the old South, and gradually all drew together in
one great group. They talked of many things, of almost everything except
the war, of the news from Europe, of the books that they had
read--Scott and Dickens, Thackeray and Hugo--and of the music that they
had heard, particularly the favourite arias of Italian opera.

Mrs. Markham and Miss Harley were twin stars in this group, and Prescott
could not tell which had the greater popularity. Mrs. Markham was the
more worldly and perhaps the more accomplished; but the girl was all
youthful freshness, and there was about her an air of simplicity that
the older woman lacked.

It gradually developed into a contest between them, heightened, so it
seemed to Prescott, by the fact that Colonel Harley was always by the
side of Mrs. Markham, and apparently made no effort to hide his
admiration, while his sister was seeking without avail to draw him away.
Prescott stood aside for a few moments to watch and then Raymond put his
hand on his shoulder.

"You see in Mrs. Markham a very remarkable woman--the married belle,"
said the editor. "The married belle, I understand, is an established
feature of life abroad, but she is as yet comparatively unknown in the
South. Here we put a woman on the shelf at twenty--or at eighteen if she
marries then, as she often does."

Coffee and waffles were served at ten o'clock. Two coloured women
brought in the coffee and the cups on a tray, but the ladies themselves
served it.

"I apologize for the coffee," said Mrs. Markham. "I have a suspicion
that it is more or less bean, but the Yankee blockading fleet is very
active and I dare any of you to complain."

"Served by your hand, the common or field bean becomes the finest
mocha," said Mr. Pegram, with the ornate courtesy of the old South.

"And if any one dare to intimate that it is not mocha I shall challenge
him immediately," said Winthrop.

"You will have to use a worse threat than that," said Mrs. Markham. "I
understand that at your last duel you hit a negro plowing in a cornfield
fifty yards from your antagonist."

"And scared the negro's mule half to death," added Raymond.

"But in your cause, Mrs. Markham, I couldn't miss," replied the gallant
Winthrop, not at all daunted.

The waffles were brought in hot from the kitchen and eaten with the
coffee. After the refreshments the company began to play "forfeit
essay." Two hats were handed around, all drawing a question from one hat
and a word from the other. It became the duty of every one to connect
question and word by a poem, essay, song or tale in time to be recited
at the next meeting. Then they heard the results of the last meeting.

"That's Innes Randolph standing up there in the corner and getting ready
to recite," said Talbot to Prescott. "He's one of the cleverest men in
the South and we ought to have something good. He's just drawn from one
hat the words 'Daddy Longlegs' and from the other 'What sort of shoe was
made on the last of the Mohicans?' He says he doesn't ask to wait until
the next meeting, but he'll connect them extempore. Now we'll see what
he has made out of them."

Randolph bowed to the company with mock humility, folded his hands
across his breast and recited:

    "Old Daddy Longlegs was a sinner hoary,
    And punished for his wickedness according to the story;
    Between him and the Indian shoes the likeness doth come in,
    One made a mock o' virtue and one a moccasin."

He was interrupted by the entrance of a quiet little man, modestly clad
in a civilian's suit of dark cloth.

"Mr. Sefton," said some one, and immediately there was a halt in the
talk, followed by a hush of expectation. Prescott noticed with interest
that the company looked uncomfortable. The effect that Mr. Sefton
produced upon all was precisely the same as that which he had
experienced when with the Secretary.

Mr. Sefton was not abashed. He hurried up to the hostess and said:

"I hope I am not intrusive, Mrs. Markham, but I owed you a call, and I
did not know that your little club was in session. I shall go in a few
minutes."

Mrs. Markham pressed him to stay and become one of them for the evening,
and her manner had every appearance of warmth.

"She believes he came to spy upon us," said Raymond, "and I am not sure
myself that he didn't. He knew well enough the club was meeting here
to-night."

But the Secretary quickly lulled the feelings of doubt that existed in
the minds of the members of the Mosaic Club. He yielded readily to the
invitation of Mrs. Markham and then exerted himself to please, showing a
facile grace in manner and speech that soon made him a welcome guest. He
quickly drifted to the side of Miss Harley, and talked so well from the
rich store of his experience and knowledge that her ear was more for him
than for any other.

"Is Mr. Sefton a bachelor?" asked Prescott of Winthrop.

Winthrop looked at the young Captain and laughed.

"Are you, too, hit?" Winthrop asked. "You need not flush, man; I have
proposed to her myself three times and I've been rejected as often. I
expect to repeat the unhappy experience, as I am growing somewhat used
to it now and can stand it."

"But you have not answered my question: is the Secretary married?"

"Unfortunately, he is not."

There was an adjoining room to which the men were permitted to retire
for a smoke if the spirit moved them, and when Prescott entered it for
the first time he found it already filled, General Markham himself
presiding. The General was a middle-aged man, heavy and slow of speech,
who usually found the talk of the Mosaic Club too nimble for his wits
and began his devotions to tobacco at an early hour.

"Have a cigar, Prescott," he said, holding up a box.

"That looks like a Havana label on the box," replied Prescott. "Are they
genuine?"

"They ought to be genuine Havanas," replied the General. "They cost me
five dollars apiece."

"Confederate money," added a colonel, Stormont; "and you'll be lucky if
you get 'em next year for ten dollars apiece."

Colonel Stormont's eyes followed Prescott's round the room and he
laughed.

"Yes, Captain Prescott," he said, "we are a somewhat peculiar company.
There are now fourteen men in this room, but we can muster among us only
twenty-one arms and twenty-four legs. It's a sort of general assembly,
and I suppose we ought to send out a sergeant-at-arms for the missing
members."

The Colonel touched his own empty left sleeve and added: "But, thank
God, I've got my right arm yet, and it's still at the service of the
Confederacy."

The Member of Congress, Redfield, came into the room at this moment and
lighted a pipe, remarking:

"There will be no Confederacy, Colonel, unless Lee moves out and attacks
the enemy."

He said this in a belligerent manner, his eyes half closed and his chin
thrust forward as he puffed at his pipe.

An indignant flush swept over the veteran's face.

"Is this just a case of thumbs up and thumbs down?" he asked. "Is the
Government to have a victory whenever it asks for it, merely because it
does ask for it?"

Redfield still puffed slowly and deliberately at his pipe, and did not
lower his chin a fraction from its aggravating height.

"General Lee overestimates the enemy," he said, "and has communicated
the same tendency to all his men. It's a fatal mistake in war; it's a
fatal mistake, I tell you, sir. The Yankees fight poorly."

The flush on the face of the Confederate colonel deepened. He tapped his
empty sleeve and looked around at what he called the "missing members."

"You are in Congress, Mr. Redfield," he said, "and you have not seen the
Yankees in battle. Only those who have not met them on the field say
they cannot fight."

"I warn you that I am going to speak in Congress on the inaction of Lee
and the general sloth of the military arm!" exclaimed Redfield.

"But, Mr. Redfield," said Prescott, seeking to soothe the Colonel and to
still the troubled waters, "we are outnumbered by the enemy in our front
at least two to one, we are half starved, and in addition our arms and
equipment are much inferior to those of the Yankees."

Here Redfield burst into a passion. He thought it a monstrous shame, he
said, that any subaltern should talk at will about the Southern
Government, whether its military or civil arm.

Prescott flushed deeply, but he hesitated for an answer. His was not a
hot Southern temper, nor did he wish to have a quarrel in a club at
which he was only a guest. While he sought the right words, Winthrop
spoke for him.

"I think, Mr. Redfield," said the editor, "that criticism of the
Government is wholly right and proper. Moreover, not enough of it is
done."

"You should be careful, Mr. Winthrop, how far you go," replied Redfield,
"or you may find your printing presses destroyed and yourself in
prison."

"Which would prove that instead of fighting for freedom we are fighting
for despotism. But I am not afraid," rejoined the editor. "Moreover, Mr.
Redfield, besides telling you my opinion of you here, I am also
perfectly willing to print it in my paper. I shall answer for all that I
say or write."

Raymond was sitting at a table listening, and when Winthrop finished
these words, spoken with much fire and heat, he took out a note-book and
regarded it gravely.

"Which would make, according to my entry here--if Mr. Redfield chooses
to challenge--your ninth duel for the present season," he said.

There was an equivocal smile on the face of nearly every one present as
they looked at the Member of Congress and awaited his reply. What that
would have been they never knew, because just at that moment entered
Mr. Sefton, breathing peace and good will. He had heard the last words,
but he chose to view them in a humourous light. He pooh-poohed such
folly as the rash impulses of young men. He was sure that his friend
Redfield had not meant to cast any slur upon the army, and he was
equally sure that Winthrop, whose action was right-minded were his point
of view correct, was mistaken as to the marrow of Redfield's speech.

The Secretary had a peculiarly persuasive power which quickly exerted
its influence upon Winthrop, Stormont and all the others. Winthrop was
good-natured, avowing that he had no cause of quarrel with anybody if
nobody had any with him, and Redfield showed clearly his relief. It
seemed to Prescott that the Member of Congress had gone further than he
intended.

No breath of these stormy airs was allowed to blow from the smoking-room
upon the ladies, and when Prescott presently rejoined them he found
vivacity and gaiety still prevalent. Prescott's gaze dwelt longest on
Miss Harley, who was talking to the Secretary. The pleasant sounds, he
made the instruments hervorlockte, even exhilarated the company soon.
"You care to sing, good age," said Philine. "Give us something,
the heart and mind with both delight the senses," said Wilhelm. "The
instrument should only accompany the voice, because melodies, passages
and runs without words and meaning seem to me beautiful colorful
butterflies or birds to be similar, in the air before our eyes
herumschweben all of us if we zueignen Hascher want because the
vocals on the other hand like a genius lifts into the sky and the
better I am in us incites to accompany him.

"The old man looked at Wilhelmer, then in the height, did a few attacks
on the harp and began his song. It included a praise on the song, extolling
the good fortune of the singer and exhorted the people to honor them.
He carried the song with so much life and truth before that it
seemed as if he had it in this moment and on that occasion in sealed
.

Wilhelm barely contained him around the neck to fall, only the fear of a
loud laughter to excite, pulled him back to his chair, because the
other halblaut already made some silly remarks and arguing whether
there was a priest or a Jew was .

When after the author of the song asked, he gave no definite answer,
only he assured that he was rich in songs and I wish only that they
fell like.

The largest part of the company was cheerful and sociable, even after
his kind Melina become open, and by talking with each other and joked,
the old man began the praise of the social life on the geistreichste
to sing.

He praised unity and complacency with ingratiating tones. Suddenly his
singing was dry, rough and confused, as he closed nasty, short and
witty enmity dangerous dichotomy regretted and threw like every
soul from the shackles uncomfortable when he was on the wings of a
melody penetrate, who praised peacemakers and happiness of souls,
which are reflected, sang. geendigt Scarcely had he, when he zurief
Wilhelm: "Whoever you are seist, you hülfreicher protection as a
spirit with a blessing and invigorating voice to come forward, take
my worship and my thanks!

feel that we all admire you, and trust us, if you have something needed!
"The old man remained silent, only let his fingers creep over the strings,
then he picked them closer to, and sang:" What I hear outside the
door, What the bridge ring?

Let the song to our ears in the halls echoed, "The King's voice, the
author ran The boy came, the king cried," Bring him in, the ancients!
"Gegrüßet are their high Lord, greeted her, beautiful ladies!

What a rich sky! Stern at Stern! Who Kennet their names?

The hall full of pomp and glory Closes, eyes, you, here is no time to
marvel at the singer expresses delight 'eyes and full, the tones; The
Knight looked Dreiner brave, And in the lap of the beautiful. The King,
liked the song, Did he, as a reward for his game, A golden chain here.
"The golden chain give not to me, The Knights enter the chain,
first The bold face their enemy lances shatter.

Give it to the Registrar that you have, And let him have the golden
burden to burden others. I sing like a bird sings, The lives in
the branches.

The song, taken from the throat urges, actual salary, plenty of lohnet;
But may I ask, I ask this: Let a drink of the best wine in pure
Glase bring.

"He continues" there, he drank it out: "O sweet potion of Labe! Oh! three
hochbeglücktes house, Where is the little gift! Where's you probably
think of me, And so warm thanks to God, when I draft you for this
thank you.

"As the singer geendigtem songs after a glass of wine poured for him
stood, and took it with a friendly countenance, against his
benefactor immediately, austrank, was a general joy in the Assembly.

They clapped and cried to him, it might this glass to his health, to
strengthen his old limbs disadvantage.

He sang a few romances and attracted more and more playfulness in the
company.

"Can you find the melody, old age," said Philine, "" The shepherd is
cleaned to the dance? "" Oh, yes, "returned he," if you sing the song and
want to perform, to me it should not be missed.

"Philine stood up and stayed ready. The old man began the melody, and
they sang a song that our readers, we can not communicate because
they are perhaps abgeschmackt indecent or probably even could find.

In the meantime had The company, which had become more serene, yet some
ausgetrunken bottle of wine and began to be very loud.

However, as our friends the evil consequences of their lust still floated
in fresh memory, he looked off, put the old man for his effort an ample
reward in hand, the others were doing something, you let him rest and
wear, and promised to the evening repeated pleasure from his skill.
When he was out, said Wilhelm to Philine: "I may be singing in your body
is neither a poetic or moral merit can be found, but if you ebender
Naivetät, character and decency daintiness something in the theater
ever run so you generally, received loud applause certainly will.
"" Yes, "said Philine," it should be quite a pleasant sensation to
be on the ice to warm up. "" ever, "said Wilhelm," how very ashamed
of this man some actor .

Have you noticed how the really dramatic expression was his romances?

Certainly, there lived more show in his singing as rigid in our
characters on stage, you should consider some more pieces for a
story, and these musical narratives a sensual presence attribute
to it. "" You are unjust!

" transferees Laertes, "I refuse to give me a great actor or singer, but
I know that if the music the movements of the body forward, gives
them life and they also prescribes the extent, if declamation and
expression of the already Kompositeur on transferred me: I am a man
else, as if I am in the prosaic drama only created everything, and
tact and I only invent declamation is what I would like to disrupt
Each player can. "" As far as I know, "said Melina, "us that this
man points in a certain shame, in a major points.

The strength of his talent is reflected in the benefits that he prefers.
us that we may soon be in a predicament where we have a meal hernehmen
moves he, our meal to share with him. He knows us the money we could
use to us in some constitution to put a song out of his pocket to lure.
It seems so pleasant to be the money to verschleudern, which we
and others could provide a living.

"The conversation was by this remark is not the most pleasant twist.
Wilhelm, on the accusation actually was, replied with some passion,
and Melina, who's not the greatest delicacy zeal, brought last his
complaints fairly dry before words.

"There are now fourteen days," he said, "that we pledged this theater
and the Wardrobe have seen, and we were both very reasonably for a
sum.

They told me then hope that you would credit me as much, and until now I
still have not seen that you consider the matter further or to a decision
would have approached. Griffen you were to, we would be now in progress.
your intention to travel, you have not yet executed, and money
seems to me this time saved on not to have at least there are people
who always give the opportunity to know that it is quickly go away.

"This is not entirely unjust accusation met our friend.

He returned it with some liveliness, so with ferocity and took, as
the company aufstund and scattered, the door, he is not indistinct
to recognize was that he was not so long in more hostile and
ungrateful people wanted to stay.

He hurried down sullen, at a stone bank to put before the gates of
his inn stood, and not noticed that he made like half and half from
more than usual annoyances had drunk II.

Paper, 12 Chapter Twelfth Chapter After a short time, he, alarmed
by some thoughts, and before sitting down looking to persuade had
strolled to the door Philine singing out, sat down with him, one
almost expected him to say, so they moved close to approached him,
leaned on his shoulders, playing with his curls, stroked him and
gave him the best words in the world.

She asked him, he wants to stay and they are not in society let alone
in front of Langer while they would die, she could no longer work with
Melina under one roof and perseverance had so herüberquartiert.

In vain, he dismissed them, to understand their make it clear that
he could stay no longer be allowed.

It was not with the request, so unexpectedly wrapped her arm around
his neck and kissed him with the liveliest expressions of desire.

"Are you a toll, Philine?"

cried Wilhelm, as he sought to loszumachen, "the public street to witness
such cuddled to make, which I in no way deserved, let me go, I can
not and I will not remain."

"And I'll hold on," she said, "and I'll here on the public street as long
kiss, till you promise me what I want. I laugh myself to death," she
continued, "to maintain this confidentiality me People certainly your
wife for four weeks, and the husbands, a scene so lovely to see their
women to be me as an unbiased sample of a childlike tenderness to
praise.

"Just a few people went over, and she caressed him on the most
charming and he, in order not to give scandal, was forced to the
role of patient husband to play.

Then they cut the faces of people in the back and drove all kinds
of high spirits fully naughtiness until last promise he had today
and tomorrow and the day to stay.

"You have a right stick!" she said that by removing from him
abließ, "and I Törin that I am as much a waste of your kindness."

She was sullen and went a few steps, then she returned back and
said laughingly: "I just think that I matter to you'm infatuated,
I just want to go and fetch my knitting stocking that I had something
to do.

Stay so, so I am the stone man the stone bank think again. "This time,
she did him wrong: he sosehr because it sought to contain, he would
but in this moments, he would have with her in a secluded bower
found her cuddled probably not left unrequited.

They went after him a reckless zugeworfen view in the house. He had no
profession to follow her, but her demeanor was a reluctance in him
excited, but stressed he is, without quite knowing why, from the bank
to pursue her. He was just in the process in the door to occur, as
Melina herbeikam him humble and anredete him because of some change in
the word too harsh outspoken expressions begged for forgiveness. "You
make me sick," he continued, "if I live in the states where I am,
maybe I am anxious to indicate, but the concern for a woman, perhaps
soon for a child, prevents me from one day to others, to live
quietly, and my time with the added benefit pleasant sensations,
such as you is still permitted.

Rethink, and if you can, so put me in possession of the theatrical devices
that are found here. I will not long your debtor and you will remain
eternally grateful for.

"Wilhelm, who reluctantly halted on the threshold of seeing him on an
irresistible tendency in this moments Philine hinüberzog said with a
surprised and dispersal eilfertigen benevolence:" If I were you
to be happy and make happy, so I will no longer remember. you go
out, make everything right.

I am ready to have this evening or tomorrow morning to pay the
money. " He gave this Melinan hand to confirm his promise and was very
happy as he hurried across the street looked away, but unfortunately
he was by his intrusion into the house and the second on an
unpleasant way, held back. A young man with a bundle on came rushing
back to the street and went to Wilhelm, the same for him Friedrich
recognized. "Since I'm back!"

cried he, by his big blue eyes and joyfully around all windows up to let
go, "where is Mamsell? The executioner, it may be longer in the world to
endure without it to see!" The landlord, who just dazugetreten
was shifted : "She's Up, and with a few jumps, he was the stairs,
and William remained on the threshold are as entrenched.

He had in the first moments of the boys in the back hair may pull down
the stairs, and then inhibited the violent convulsions of a violent
jealousy of the race once his spirits and his ideas, and as he
gradually recovered from his paralysis, attacked him for restlessness,
a feeling of discomfort, like his life had not yet felt.

He went to his room and found a letter Mignon employed. The child had a
great time with her industrious endeavor, everything it knew by
heart, to write and was his master and friend, have written to
correct.

She was seized unermüdet and good, but the letters were uneven, and
crooked lines. Again, her body seemed to contradict the spirit speak.
Wilhelm, the attention of the child when he was quiet sense, made
great joy, this little attention to what they showed him, and she
felt it afflicted only about the more than they thought, this time
their case quite well done to have.

Wilhelms restlessness drove him to the corridors of the house to
and fro, and soon returned to the door.

A rider sprinkled, which had a good look at the compound and years much
vivacity betrayed. The landlord hastened to meet him, gave him as a
familiar friend's hand and cried: "Oh, Mr. equerry, one sees you
once again!"

"I just want to feed here," returned the stranger, "I must be equal
across the Well, in order to speed up all kinds of it. The Count ways;
the point tomorrow with his wife, they will have some time over there
staying at the Prince of *** on the best to entertain, to be
published in this area probably aufschlägt his headquarters. " "It
is a pity that you will not be able to stay with us," returned the
landlord, "we have a good society."

The Reitknecht, the nachsprengte, the equerry took the horse, which is
under the door with the landlord and Wilhelm maintained from the side
installations. This, because he noticed that his speech was, went
away and went on some roads and from II. Paper, 13 Chapter Thirteenth
chapter in sullen disquiet, in which he was, he remembered that the
elderly reside, where the harp to scare away evil spirits hoped.

It showed him as the man after he asked at a bad inn in a remote corner
of the town and in the same way up the stairs to the ground, where
he received the sweet sound of a harp chamber entgegenschallte.

There were herzrührende, plaintive tones, from a sad and fearful vocal
support. Wilhelm tiptoed to the door, and since the good old kind of
imagination and a few stanzas vortrug sometimes singing, sometimes
rezitierend always repeated, the eavesdropper could after a short attention
about understand the following: Who never to eat bread with tears, Who
never kummer full nights crying on his bed sat, the know you not, her
heavenly powers. carries into your life inside us, you let the poor are
guilty, then überlaßt him the Agony, because all the blame to take
revenge on Earth.

The melancholic, heartfelt plea penetrated deep into the soul of the
listener. It seemed to him as if the old man sometimes tears prevented
would continue, and then sounded the strings alone, and again the
voice quietly in broken lutes dareinmischte.

William stood at the pole, his soul was deeply stirred, the grief of the
unknown closed his uneasy at heart, he does not withstood the
compassion and wanted to and could not hold back tears, the heartfelt
pleas of the Old eventually made his eyes hervorlockte.

All the pain, the pressure on his soul, broke away at the same
time, he gave them throughout, pushed the chamber and stood before
the old man, a bad bed, the only house of this wretched apartment
to take his seat to have been coerced .

'What hast thou me made for lively feelings, good old man! " he
exclaimed, "everything in my heart faltered, have you divorced, you do
not disturb, but proceed by your suffering linderst a friend happy."

The old man wanted to stand up and talk about something, Wilhelm prevented
him out because he had noticed at lunch that the man reluctantly
said he was much more to him on the straw bag down.

The old man wiped his tears and asked with a friendly smile: " How to
get here? I wanted to wait again this evening. "" We are quiet here,
"returned Wilhelm," sing me what you want, what fits for your
situation, and do just as if I were not here.

It seems to me as if you could not go wrong today. I find you very happy
that you are in solitude as pleasant company and can entertain and,
since you're a stranger everywhere, in your heart will find the
most pleasant acquaintance.

"The old man looked at his strings, and after he had gently präludiert,
he agreed to and sang: Who is the solitude, Ah!

he is soon alone; Everyone lives, everyone loves him and makes his pain.
Yes! I let my pain And I can only right once lonely, Then I'm not
alone.

It sneaks a loving warding eavesdropping, whether his girlfriend alone?
überschleicht Sun by day and night I am lonely the torment, the
agony I'm lonely Oh werd I first Alone in his grave, since it leaves
me alone, we would be too wide and yet the strange charm of the
interview can not express to our friend with the adventurous strangers
stopped.

On everything that the young man said to him, replied the old man with
the purest of compliance by echoes, all related and did brisk sensations
of the imagination opened up a wide field. Who a gathering of pious people
who, aside from the church, clean, warm and witty to build believe
beigewohnt, is also a term from the current scene can make, he will
recall how his words of liturgical verse a singing adjust white,
the soul then rises, while the speaker hopes that they might take
flight as soon thereafter from another congregation in another verse
to the melody of another song and add it back to a third a third
linked , thus the related ideas of the songs from which they are
borrowed, although excited, and every body but through the new
connection and individually, as if they are in the moments would
have been invented, so as from a known circle of ideas, from popular
songs and sayings of this particular society, for this moment all
its own as a result of the enjoyment they enlivened, strengthened
and refreshed.

This was built in the old man his guest, by by known and unknown songs,
and places near and distant feelings, waking and slumbering, pleasant
and painful sensations brought into circulation, from the current
state of our friend, the best hope was II.

Paper, 14 Chapter Four Tenth chapter because it really caught on the way
back on its location livelier than previously done, to think, and was
with the intent to withdraw from the same out as arrived home, the
landlord as he immediately opened with confidence that at
Mademoiselle Philine the equerry of the Count had made a conquest, which,
after completing his contract at the best designed, highest in a
hurry come back, and a good dinner on top of her room with her
eating.

In this very moment with Melina joined in. Notarius, they went
Wilhelms room together, where this, though with some hesitation, made his
promise sufficeth, three hundred thalers to change at Melina paid off,
which of these once the Notarius over and against the document on the
purchase of the entire closed theatrical equipment was sent to them
tomorrow morning should be passed. auseinandergegangen Hardly were
they, as an appalling Wilhelm screams heard in the house. He heard a
young voice, the angry and menacing with a inordinate crying and
wailing through.

He heard this lament from the top down on his desk after passing the House
seats hurry. As the curiosity of our friend herunterlockte, he found
Frederick in a kind of frenzy. The boy wept, gritted, stamped,
threatened with fists and concentrated totally turned unruly rage
and annoyances, Mignon stood over and watched with astonishment,
and the landlord reasonably explained this phenomenon.

The boy was after his return, as well it Philine recorded, happy, funny
and frisky been've sung and jumped up to the time when the equerry
with Philine made acquaintance.

Now have something between a child and young man starting his
annoyances to show the door to attack and down and running.

Philine had ordered him tonight at table aufzuwarten what he has only
become sullen and defiantly, at last, he had a bowl with sauce, instead
of it on the table to put between Mademoiselle and the guest who
sat very close together, hineingeworfen what the equerry him a few slaps
in the face and efficient him to the door also being missed.

He, the landlord, have insisted the two people to help clean up, whose
clothes have been very ill prepared. As a boy of the good effects of his
vengeance heard, he began to laugh aloud by him is still the tears
to the cheeks down.

He was delighted to welcome some time until he swear that he appreciated
the strongest, einfiel again, as he again to cry and began to threaten.
Wilhelm stood thoughtfully and ashamed in front of this scene.
He saw his own insides with strong and exaggerated features shown, but
it was an insurmountable jealousy ignites, even he, if it's prosperity
had not held back, would like to satisfy his savage mood, happy
with malicious gloating beloved subject of the injured and his rival
ausgefordert have, he would have the people who are only to his
chagrin dazusein seemed like Vertilger.

Laertes, who is also herbeigekommen was and had heard the story,
reinforced the mischievous boys angry, as this assured and swore: the
equerry should give him satisfaction, he had still not an insult to
have to sit; refuse the equerry, he will know to take revenge.
"Colonel," asked Prescott, as they reached the street, "who, in reality,
is Mr. Sefton?"

"That is more than any of us can tell," replied the Colonel; "nominally
he is at the head of a department in the Treasury, but he has acquired a
great influence in the Cabinet--he is so deft at the despatch of
business--and he is at the White House as much as he is anywhere. He is
not a man whom we can ignore."

Prescott was of that opinion, too, and when he got into his bed, not
long before the break of day, he was still thinking of the bland
Secretary.


CHAPTER V

AN ELUSIVE FACE


Walking abroad at noontime next day, Prescott saw Helen Harley coming
toward Capitol Square, stepping lightly through the snow, a type of
youthful freshness and vigour. The red hood was again over her head, and
a long dark cloak, the hem of it almost touching the snow fallen the
night before, enclosed her figure.

"Good-morning, Mr. Soldier," she said cheerily; "I hope that your
dissipations at the Mosaic Club have not retarded the recovery of your
injured shoulder."

Prescott smiled.

"I think not," he replied. "In fact, I've almost forgotten that I have a
shoulder."

"Now, I can guess where you are going," she said.

"Try and see."

"You are on your way to the Capitol to hear Mr. Redfield reply to that
attack of Mr. Winthrop's, and I'm going there, too."

So they walked together up the hill, pausing a moment by the great
Washington monument and its surrounding groups of statuary where Mr.
Davis had taken the oath of office two years before, and Mr. Sefton, who
saw them from an upper window of that building, smiled sourly.

The doors of the Capitol were wide open, as they always stood during the
sessions of Congress, and Robert and Helen passed into the rotunda,
pausing a moment by the Houdon Washington, and then went up the steps to
the second floor, where they entered the Senate Chamber, now used by the
Confederate House of Representatives. The tones of a loud and tireless
voice reached them; Mr. Redfield was already on his feet.

The honourable member from the Gulf Coast had risen on a question of
personal privilege. Then he required the clerk of the House to read the
offending editorial from Winthrop's newspaper, during which he stood
haughtily erect, his feet rather wide apart, his arms folded indignantly
across his breast, and a look of righteous wrath on his face. When the
clerk finished, he spat plentifully in a spittoon at his feet, cleared
his throat, and let loose the flood of rhetoric which was threatening
already to burst over the dam.

The blow aimed by that villainous writer, the honourable gentleman said,
was struck at him. He was a member of the Committee on Military Affairs,
and he must reply ere the foul stain was permitted to tarnish his name.
He came from a sunny land where all the women were beautiful and all the
men brave, and he would rather die a thousand deaths than permit any
obscure ink-slinger to impeach his fair fame. He carried the honour of
his country in his heart; he would sooner die a thousand deaths than to
permit--to permit---

He paused, and waved his hand as he sought for a metaphor sufficiently
strong-winged.

"Wait a minute, Mr. Redfield, and I'll help you down," dryly said a
thin-faced member from the Valley of Virginia.

The sound of subdued laughter arose and the Speaker rapped for order.
Mr. Redfield glared at the irreverent member from the Valley of
Virginia, then resumed his interrupted flight. Unfortunately for him the
spell was broken. Some of the members began to talk in low whispers and
others to read documents. Besides the murmur of voices there was a sound
of scraping feet. But the honourable member from the sunny shores of the
Gulf helped himself down, though somewhat angrily, and choosing a tamer
course began to come nearer to the point. He called for the suppression
of the offending newspaper and the expulsion of its editor from the
city. He spoke of Winthrop by name and denounced him. Robert saw Mr.
Sefton appear upon the floor and once nod his head approvingly as Mr.
Redfield spoke.

The House now paid more heed, but the dry member from the Valley of
Virginia, in reply to Mr. Redfield, called the attention of the members
to the fact that they could not suppress the newspapers. They might deny
its representatives the privileges of the House, but they could go no
further. He was opposed to spreading the thing to so great an extent, as
it would be sure to reach the North and would be a standing
advertisement to the Yankees that the South was divided against itself.

Then a motion was made to deny the privileges of the House to Winthrop,
or any representative of his paper, but it was defeated by a narrow
margin.

"That, I think," said Robert, "will be the end of this affair."

"I am glad of it," responded Helen, "because I like Mr. Winthrop."

"And, therefore, you believe everything he says is correct?"

"Yes; why not?"

"Women have more personal loyalty than men," said Robert, not replying
directly. "Shall we go now?" he asked a moment later; "I think we have
heard all of interest."

"No, I must stay a little," she replied with some embarrassment. "The
fact is--I am--waiting to see Mr. Sefton."

"To see Mr. Sefton!" Prescott could not refrain from exclaiming in his
surprise.

She looked at him with an air half defiance, half appeal.

"Yes," she said, "and my business is of considerable importance to me.
You don't think that a mere woman can have any business of weight with
so influential a personage as Mr. Sefton. You Southern men, with all
your courtesy and chivalry, really undervalue us, and therefore you are
not gallant at all."

Her defiant look and manner told Prescott that she did not wish him to
know the nature of her business, so he made a light answer, asking her
if she were about to undertake the affairs of the Government. He had no
doubt some would be glad to get rid of them.

He excused himself presently and strolled into the rotunda, where he
gazed absently at the Washington statue and the Lafayette bust, although
he saw neither. Conscious of a feeling of jealousy, he began to wish ill
to the clever Secretary. "What business can she have with a man like
Sefton?" he said to himself.

Passing out of the rotunda, he walked slowly down the steps, and looking
back saw Helen and Mr. Sefton in close and earnest conversation. Then he
went on faster with increased ill temper.

"I have a piece of news for you," said Mrs. Prescott the next morning to
her son at the breakfast table.

He looked at her with inquiring interest.

"Helen Harley has gone to work," she said.

"Gone to work! Mother, what do you mean?"

"The heiress of seven generations must work like a common Northern
mill-hand to support that pompous old father of hers, the heir of six
Virginia generations, who certainly would not work under any
circumstances to support his daughter."

"Won't you explain yourself more clearly, mother?"

"It's this. The Harleys are ruined by the war. The Colonel is absorbed
in his career and spends all his salary on himself. The old gentleman
doesn't know anything about his financial affairs and doesn't want to;
it's beneath his dignity. Helen, who does know about them, is now
earning the bread for her father and herself. Think of a Southern girl
of the oldest blood doing such a thing! It is very low and degrading,
isn't it?"

She looked at him covertly. A sudden thought occurred to him.

"No, mother," he replied. "It is not low and degrading. You think just
the contrary, and so do I. Where has Helen gone to work?"

"In the Treasury Department, under Mr. Sefton. She is copying documents
there."

Robert felt a sudden relief and then alarm that she should owe so much
to Sefton.

"I understand that Harley senior stormed and threatened for awhile,"
continued his mother. "He said no female member of his family had ever
worked before, and he might have added, few male members either. He said
his family would be disgraced forever by the introduction of such a low
Yankee innovation; but Helen stood firm, and, moreover, she was urged by
the hand of necessity. I understand that she has quite a good place and
her salary is to be paid in gold. She will pass here every day at noon,
coming home for her luncheon."

Prescott spent most of the morning at home, the remainder with his new
friends, wandering about the city; but just before noon he was in front
of the Custom House, waiting by the door through which Helen must come.
She appeared promptly at the stroke of twelve and seemed surprised to
see him there.

"I came merely to tell you how much I admire your resolution," he said.
"I think you are doing a noble thing."

The colour in her cheeks deepened a little. He knew he had pleased her.

"It required no great amount of courage," she replied, "for the work is
not hard and Mr. Sefton is very kind. And, aside from the money I am
happier here. Did you never think how hard it was for women to sit with
their hands folded, waiting for this war to end?"

"I have thought of it more than once," he replied.

"Now I feel that I am a part of the nation," she continued, "not a mere
woman who does not count. I am working with the others for our success."

Her eyes sparkled like the eyes of one who has taken a tonic, and she
looked about her defiantly as if she would be ready with a fitting reply
to any who might dare to criticize her.

Prescott liked best in her this quality of independence and
self-reliance, and perhaps her possession of it imparted to her that
slight foreign air which he so often noticed. He thought the
civilization of the South somewhat debilitating, so far as women were
concerned. It wished to divide the population into just two
classes--women of beautiful meekness and men of heroic courage.

Helen had broken down an old convention, having made an attempt that few
women of her class and period would have dared, and at a time, too, when
she might have been fearful of the results. She was joyous as if a
burden had been lifted. Prescott rarely had seen her in such spirits.
She, who was usually calm and grave, seemed to have forgotten the war.
She laughed and jested and saw good humour in everything.

Prescott could not avoid catching the infection from the woman whom he
most admired. The atmosphere--the very air--took on an unusual
brilliancy. The brick walls and the shingled roofs glittered in the
crisp, wintry sunshine; the schoolboys, caps over their ears and mittens
on their fingers, played and shouted in the streets just as if peace
reigned and the cannon were not rumbling onward over there beyond the
trees.

"Isn't this world beautiful at times?" said Helen.

"It is," replied Robert, "and it seems all the more strange to me that
we should profane it by war. But here comes Mrs. Markham. Let us see how
she will greet you."

Mrs. Markham was in a sort of basket cart drawn by an Accomack pony, one
of those ugly but stout little horses which do much service in Virginia
and she was her own driver, her firm white wrists showing above her
gloves as she held the reins. She checked her speed at sight of Robert
and Helen and stopped abreast of them.

"I was not deceiving you the other night, Captain Prescott," she said,
after a cheerful good-afternoon "when I told you that all my carriage
horses had been confiscated. Ben Butler, here--I call him Ben Butler
because he is low-born and has no manners--arrived only last night,
bought for me by my husband with a whole wheelbarrowful of Confederate
bills: is it not curious how we, who have such confidence in our
Government, will not trust its money."

She flicked Ben Butler with her whip, and the pony reared and tried to
bolt, but presently she reduced him to subjection.

"Did I not tell you that he had no manners," she said. "Oh, how I wish I
had the real Ben Butler under my hand, too! I've heard what you've done,
Helen. But, tell me, is it really true? Have you actually gone to
work--as a clerk in an office, like a low-born Northern woman?"

The colour in Helen's cheeks deepened and Robert saw the faintest quiver
of her lower lip.

"It is true," she replied. "I am a secretary in Mr. Sefton's office and
I get fifteen dollars a week."

"Confederate money?"

"No, in gold."

"What do you do it for?"

"For the money. I need it."

Mrs. Markham flicked the pony's mane again and once more he reared, but,
as before, the strong hand restrained him.

"What you are doing is right, Helen," she said. "Though a Southern
woman, I find our Southern conventions weigh heavily upon me: but," she
added quizzically, "of course, you understand that we can't know you
socially now."

"I understand," said Helen, "and I don't ask it."

Her lips were pressed together with an air of defiance and there was a
sparkle in her eyes.

Mrs. Markham laughed long and joyously.

"Why, you little goose," she said, "I believe you actually thought I was
in earnest. Don't you know that we of the Mosaic Club and its circle
represent the more advanced and liberal spirit of Richmond--if I do say
it myself--and we shall stand by you to the utmost. I suspect that if
you were barred, others would choose the same bars for themselves. Would
they not, Captain Prescott?"

"I certainly should consider myself included in the list," replied the
young man sturdily.

"And doubtless you would have much company," resumed she. "And now I
must be going. Ben Butler is growing impatient. He is not accustomed to
good society, and I must humour him or he will make a scene."

She spoke to the horse and they dashed down the street.

"A remarkable woman," said Prescott.

"Yes; and just now I feel very grateful to her," said Helen.

They met others, but not all were so frank and cordial as Mrs. Markham.
There was a distinct chilliness in the manners of one, while a second
had a patronizing air which was equally offensive. Helen's high spirits
were dashed a little, but Robert strove to raise them again. He saw only
the humourous features of such a course on the part of those whom they
had encountered, and he exerted himself to ridicule it with such good
effect that she laughed again, and her happy mood was fully restored
when she reached her own gate.

The next was a festal day in Richmond, which, though always threatened
by fire and steel, was not without its times of joyousness. The famous
Kentucky raider, Gen. John H. Morgan, had come to town, and all that was
best in the capital, both military and civil, would give him welcome and
do him honour.

The hum and bustle of a crowd rose early in the streets, and Prescott,
with all the spirits of youth, eager to see and hear everything of
moment, was already with his friends, Talbot, Raymond and Winthrop.

"Richmond knows how to sing and dance even if the Yankee army is drawing
near. Who's afraid!" said Winthrop.

"I have declined an honour," said Raymond. "I might have gone in one of
the carriages in the procession, but I would rather be here on the
sidewalk with you. A man can never see much of a show if he is part of
it."

It was a winter's day, but Richmond was gay, nevertheless. The heavens
opened in fold on fold of golden sunshine, and a bird of winter, rising
above the city, poured out a flood of song. The boys had a holiday and
they were shouting in the streets. Officers in their best uniforms rode
by, and women, bringing treasured dresses of silk or satin from old
chests, appeared now in gay and warm colours. The love of festivity,
which war itself could not crush, came forth, and these people, all of
whom knew one another, began to laugh and jest and to see the brighter
side of life.

"Come toward the hotel," said Talbot to his friends; "Morgan and some of
the great men of Kentucky who are with him have been there all night.
That's where the procession starts."

Nothing loath, they followed him, and stayed about the hotel, talking
with acquaintances and exchanging the news of the morning. Meanwhile the
brilliant day deepened and at noon the time for the festivities to begin
was at hand.

The redoubtable cavalry leader, whose fame was rivaling that of Stuart
and Wood, came forth from the hotel, his friends about him, and the
grand procession through the streets was formed. First went the Armory
Band, playing its most gallant tunes, and after that the city Battalion
in its brightest uniform. In the first carriage sat General Morgan and
Mayor Joseph Mayo of Richmond, side by side, and behind them in
carriages and on horseback rode a brilliant company; famous Confederate
Generals like J. E. B. Stuart, Edward Johnson, A. P. Hill and others,
Hawes, the so-called Confederate Governor of Kentucky, and many more.

Virginia was doing honour to Kentucky in the person of the latter's
gallant son, John H. Morgan, and the crowd flamed into enthusiasm.
Tumultuous applause arose. These were great men to the people. Their
names were known in every household, and they resounded now, shouted by
many voices in the crisp, wintry air. The carriages moved briskly along,
the horses reared with their riders in brilliant uniforms, and their
steel-shod hoofs struck sparks from the stones of the streets. Ahead of
all, the band played dance music, and the brass of horn and trumpet
flashed back the golden gleam of the sun. The great dark-haired and
dark-eyed cavalryman, the centre and object of so much applause and
enthusiasm, smiled with pleasure, and bowed to right and left like a
Roman Caesar at his triumph.

The joy and enthusiasm of the crowd increased and the applause swelled
into rumbling thunder. Richmond, so long depressed and gloomy, sprang up
with a bound. Why cry when it was so much better to laugh! The flash of
uniforms was in the eyes of all, and the note of triumphant music in
every ear. What were the Yankees, anyway, but a leaderless horde? They
could never triumph over such men as these, Morgan, Stuart, Wood,
Harley, Hill, not to mention the peerless chief of them all, Lee, out
there, always watching.

The low thunder of a cannon came faintly from the north, but there were
few who heard it.

The enthusiasm of the crowd for Morgan spread to everybody, and mighty
cheers were given in turn for all the Generals and the Mayor. The
rebound was complete. The whole people, for the time being, looked
forward to triumph, thorough and magnificent. The nearer the Yankees
came to Richmond the greater would be their defeat and rout. High
spirits were contagious and ran through the crowd like a fire in dry
grass.

"Hurrah!" cried Talbot, clapping his hand heavily upon Prescott's
shoulder. "This is the spirit that wins! We'll drive the Yankees into
the Potomac now!"

"I've never heard that battles were won by shouting and the music of
bands," replied Prescott dryly. We humans have invented the telegraph and
the telephone and so many achievements of modern times, yes, we
have.

But if we hinaufsehen, we must also recognize and versdehen that we are
basically Gewürm, miserable Gewürm and nothing more - hab 'I'm
right or wrong, sir?

Yes, we are Gewürm, "he answered himself and nodded to the humble and
contrite firmament up. ... Au no, no literature has in him! thought
Tonio Kröger. And soon he remembered something, which he had recently
read the essay of a famous French writer on cosmological and
psychological belief, it was quite a fine speech was.

He gave the young man something like a response to his remark deeply
experienced, and then they continued, to talk by, leaned over the
parapet, the illuminated restless, moving hinausblickten evening. It
proved that the traveling companion, a young businessman from Hamburg,
was on his vacation this amusement ride used ... ', "says he," a little
with the steamer to Copenhagen Drive, denk' ich, and since I now
sdeh and it is quite as far. But with the lobster omelets, that was not
right, Lord, for you shall see, because the night is sdürmisch
that the captain himself has said, and with such a unbekömmlichen
food in the stomach, this is not Sbaß ...

"Tonio Kröger listened to all this foolishness to do with a secret
and friendly feeling. "Yes," said he, "you ever eat too heavy up here.
This makes lazy and wistfully. "" Wistfully? "Repeated the young man
and looked at him stunned ..." They are probably stranger here, sir? "He
asked suddenly ..." Ah yes, I have come far, "said Tonio Kröger with
a vague and defensive arm movement. "But you are right," said the young
man, "you have, God knows, right in what you say wistfully!

I'm almost always wistfully, but especially on such evenings as it is
today, when the Sderne the sky sdehn. "And he supported his chin back
with your thumb and index finger.

Sure, he writes verses, thought Tonio Kröger, deeply-felt honest businessman
... The Verse Evening brought before, and the wind was now become so
severe that he delivered the speech disabled. So they decided to sleep
a little, and wished each other good night. Tonio Kröger stretched
himself in his berth on the narrow bed, but he found no peace.

The severe wind and his herbes Arom had excited him strangely, and his
heart was restless and anxious in anticipation of something sweet. Also
caused the shock, which was created when the ship is a steep mountain
waves hinabglitt and the screw as in the cramp out of the water
worked, he arge nausea.

He fully dressed again and went up into the open. Monde on cloud hunted
over. The sea danced. Do not round and smooth waves came in order,
therefore, widely but, in pale and flickering light, the sea was torn,
zerpeitscht, zerwühlt, licked and jumped into sharp, flare-like giant
tongues up, threw beside foam-filled fissures and jagged improbable
formations on and seemed to the enormous power arms in the great game
in all the spray air to hurl.

The ship had heavy ride; stampfend, schlenkernd and ächzend worked it
through the tumult, and sometimes you hear the polar bears and tigers,
which have suffered under the waves in its interior roar. A man in
Wachstuchmantel, the hood over the head and a lantern to the body geschnallt,
went breitbeinig and laborious balancing on the tops back and forth.
But back then stood, bowed deeply to the sea, the young man from Hamburg,
and left it badly made. "God," he said with a hollow and shaky voice,
as he saw Tonio Kröger, "but just see the uproar of the elements,
Sir!" But then he stopped and turned to hurry from.

Tonio Kröger stayed at any streamlined Tau and looked out into all the
irrepressible high spirits. It raised a cheer, and it was as if
it were powerful enough to storm and flood to drown. A Sang at the sea,
inspired by love, sounded in him. You wilder friend of my youth, we are
once more united ... But then the poem was finished. It was not
ready, not round in shape and not in Gelassenheit forged into
something whole.

His heart ... lived so long he stood, then stretched it to a bank on the
bunk house and looked up to heaven where the stars flickering.

He slumbered even a little. And when the cold foam sprayed in his face,
so it was him in half like a caress. Vertical chalk cliffs, ghostly
in the moonlight, came in sight, and approached that was Möen the
island.

And once again stepped in between slumber, punctuated by salty Sprühschauern
the sharp biting her face and the trains would solidify ... When he was
fully awake, it was day, a light gray, fresh day and the green sea was
calm. At breakfast, he saw again the young clerk, who blushed violently,
probably before the shame, in the dark so poetic and embarrassing
things to have spoken with all five fingers, his little reddish mustache
and pointed upwards him a soldierly sharp zurief morning to him to be
scared meiden. And Tonio Kröger landed in Denmark. He was arriving in
Copenhagen, gave a tip to anyone who had the countenance, as if
he had the right to pass through from his hotel room for three days
from the city by his travel book opened in front of hertrug, and
behaved like a better stranger, of his knowledge to enrich wishes.

He regarded the king and the Neumarkt> horse "in its midst, respectful
look at the pillars of the Church of Our Lady upwards, stood long
before Thorwaldsen noble and lovely picture books, rose to the Round
Tower, visited castles and colorful spent two evenings in the Tivoli.
But it was not really all that what he saw. At the houses, often quite
the look of old houses his hometown with curved, perforated gables had,
he saw the name given to it from old days were known to him something
Tender and delicious, and seemed to call for something like the
above allegation, action and nostalgia for lost in the closed.

And all because, while he slowed down, contemplative trains breathed the
moist sea air, he saw the eyes, so blue, hair, so blonde, faces, just
by the nature and education, as they blow in the strange dreams and
repentant compatriots of the night, which he in his hometown had
spent.

It could happen that on the open road, a look, a sounding word, a
Auflachen took him into the innermost ...

It suffered him not long in the lively city.

A restlessness, sweet and silly, half-memories and half-expecting him
moving along with the request, somewhere quiet to lie on beaches
and may not be pressing umtuenden tourists play them.

So he embarked on the new one and went on a cloudy day (the sea was
black), the north coast of Zealand, along gen Elsinore. From there he
continued his journey without delay on the wagon road through continued,
still three quarters of an hour long, always a little above the sea, until
he at last and his ultimate goals gave the small white Badehotel
with green shutters, in the midst of a lower house Siedelung and
stood with his holzgedeckten tower over the Sound and the Swedish
coast hinausblickte.

Here he rose, took possession of the bright room, which he held,
board and locker filled with what he is led, and sent to here for a while
to live. VIII already moved the September before: there were not many
guests in Aalsgaard. The meals in the large dining balkengedeckten
on the ground, its high glass windows on the porch and the lake
hinausblickten, the hostess led the chair, an elderly girl with white
hair, white eyes, cheeks and zartrosigen an unsubstantiated
Zwitscherstimme that is always his red hands on the Tafeltuche a
little advantageous to group sought.

A short old gentleman with beard and eisgrauem Schiffer dunkelbläulichem
face was there, a fish trader from the capital, that of the Germans
knew. He seemed completely clogged and Schlagfluß tilted, as he breathed
in short bursts and annulled and from time to time, the ringed finger
to one of his nostrils upwards to make it zuzudrücken and the other
by strong blowing a little air transfer.

Nevertheless, he spoke constantly of Aquavitflasche too, both at breakfast
than at lunch and dinner before him. Then, only three major American
youths with their governor or tutor present, the silence on his
glasses and moved tagüber played football with them.

Rotgelbes They wore their hair in the middle gescheitelt and had a
long, unmoving faces.

"Please give me the sausage-things there," said one. "That's not sausage,
that's ham," said another, and this was everything that both of
them as home entertainment have contributed to the teachers, because
otherwise they sat still and drank hot water.

Tonio Kröger would have no other kind of society desired table. He
enjoyed his peace, listened to the Danish Kehl lute, and tarnish the
bright vowels, where the fish traders and the landlady sometimes
konversierten changed here and there with the former, a simple remark
about the state survey and then stood up to walk through the back porch
go down to the beach, where he has long had spent the morning. Sometimes
it was there still and summery. The seas rested slow and smooth, in
blue, bottle green and red stripes of glittering silver reflections on
playing the Tang dörrte to hay in the sun, and jellyfish were there,
and evaporated. It smelled a bit foul and a bit of tar after the fishing
boat to which Tonio Kröger, sitting in the sand, leaned back, - so handily
that he open the horizon and not the Swedish coast had in mind, but the
sea quiet breathing emphasized clean and fresh out of everything.

And gray, stormy days came. The waves bent their heads like bulls,
the horns blow to lodge, and ran furiously against the beach, high
up überspült and naßglänzendem with seaweed, shells and Alluvial
woodwork was covered.

Between the hills elongated shaft stretched under the sky
blaßgrün-imposed foamy the valleys, but where the clouds behind the sun,
lay on the water a whitish Sammetglanz.

Tonio Kröger standing in wind and showers wrapped, immersed in this eternal,
heavy , deafening roar, which he loved so much. He turned and walked
away, it seemed suddenly very quiet and warm to him. But he knew in the
back, the sea, it said, attracted and saluted. And he smiled. He went
further inland, on Main Street through the loneliness, and soon took
him to Buchenwald, which is hilly and far into the area covered. He sat
down in the moss, leaned to a tree, so that they are among the
tribes a strip was caused by the sea.

Sometimes the wind carried the sound of the waves to him, which sounded
as if in the distance boards successive fall. Crows on the tops yelling,
hoarse, barren and lost ... He kept a book on his knees, but he does
not read a line in it. He enjoyed a deep oblivion, proceeds Hover
over space and time, and only sometimes it was as if his heart by a
Weh durchzuckt, a short, stabbing feeling of remorse or longing,
according to the names and home to ask it to slow and was absorbed.
So passed some day, he had not managed to say how many, and did not
desire to know it. But then came one in which something happened, it
happened while the sun in the sky and people were present, and Tonio
Kröger was not so very surprised. Just the beginning of this day turned
out to be festive and adorable. Tonio Kröger woke up very early and
all of a sudden, went with an unspecified fine and from the fright
asleep up and believed in a miracle, a magic lighting fairylike
hineinzublicken.

His room, with glass door and balcony after Sunde also located by a thin,
white Gazevorhang in bedroom and living room divided zartfarbig was
wallpapered with light, bright furniture, so that there would
always be a bright and friendly sight offered.

Now, however, saw his eyes schlaftrunkenen in a unirdischen transfiguration
and illumination in front of him, over and plunged into an unutterable
Holden and fragrant rose form the walls and gilded furniture and Gazevorhang
in a mild, red glow returned ...

Tonio Kröger long term not what happened. But when he stood before
the glass door and hinausblickte, he saw that it was the sun, which
opened up. Several days it was cloudy and had regnicht; but now stretched
to the sky as tighter, blaßblauer silk shimmering clear sea and
land , and crosses and surrounded by red and golden cloud screened,
rose solemnly the solar disk through the flickering sea gekrauste,
under her shiver and seemed to glow ...

So the day began, and confused and happy Tonio Kröger threw itself into
the clothes, before breakfast every other down there in the porch,
swam here from the small wooden Badehäuschen from a distance
in the sound out and then did an hour-long course at the beach .
When he returned, had several omnibus-like car in front of hotel, dining
out and he saw that in the adjacent lounge, where the piano stood,
and in the veranda and on the terrace, which was earlier, people
in large numbers , petty lords dressed, sat at round tables and
suggested talks with beer and butter enjoyed.

There were entire families, elderly and young people, and even a few
children. The second breakfast (the table was difficult to cold
cuisine, smoked, salted and baked) Tonio Kröger inquired what is going.
"Guests," said the fish traders. »Trippers and ball guests from Elsinore!
Yes, God will preserve us, we are not able to sleep this night! It will
give dance, dance and music, and you have to fear that long.

It is a family association, a land lot, including Reunion, in short, a
subscription, or the like, and enjoy the beautiful day. You have to boat
to car and came, and now they have breakfast. Later, they go even
further over land, but at night they come again, and then amusement
here in the dance halls.

Yes, condemned and cursed, and we will not mind to do ... "" That
is a nice change, "said Tonio Kröger. This longer time was nothing
more to say. The landlady ordered their red fingers, fish traders blew
through the right nostril to get a little air to them and the Americans
drank hot water and made long faces this. Since this happened at once:
_Hans Hansen and Ingeborg Holm went through the hall . _ - Tonio
Kröger rejected, in a comforting fatigue after bathing and hurtig
his career, in the chair and ate smoked salmon on toast - he sat
the veranda and facing the sea.

And suddenly opened the door, and hand in hand, the two come in, -
strolling and without haste.

Ingeborg, the blonde Inge was brightly dressed, how they dance in the
hour with Mr. Knaak to be used. The light, floral dress gave her only
up to the ankles, and around the shoulders she wore a broad, white
with a pointed Tüllbesatz excerpt of her soft, smooth neck was
released.

The hat hung it on his zusammengeknüpften bands on one arm.

She was maybe a little adult than usual, and wore her beautiful
braid now placed around the head, but Hans Hansen was just like always.
He had his seaman-over jacket with gold buttons, on the shoulder and
back on the wide, blue collar was the sailor cap with short strips, he
held in the hand hinabhängenden and schlenkerte them carelessly back
and forth. Ingeborg held its narrow cut eyes away, maybe a little embarrassed
by the dining people who looked upon them.

Solo Hans Hansen turned straight and now all over the world in spite of
the head to the breakfast table and mustered with his steel blue
eyes one after another challenging and somewhat disdainfully, he
could even drive Inge Borg's hand and shake his hat still fierce
back and forth to show what a man he was.

Thus, the two, with the quiet blue of the sea as background, before Tonio
Kröger eyes over, durchmaßen the length of his room and disappeared
through the opposite door in the piano room.

This came to around half past eleven clock morning, and even while
the patients at breakfast sat, next door and broke in the veranda
of the corporation, and left without anyone to enter the dining
would have been by the side access, there was the hotel.

We heard how out jokes and laughter among the cars have been climbed,
like a vehicle after another on the road is put in motion crunching
and davonrollte ...

"So you come again?" Asked Tonio Kröger ... "That they do , "said the fish
traders. "And God's sued. You have ordered music, you must know, and
I sleep here over the Saale. "" That is a nice variety, "repeated
Tonio Kröger. Then he stood up and slunk away. He spent the day like
the others he had spent, on beaches, in the forest, gave a book on his
knees, and blinked into the sun. He moved just a thought: those that they
come back and dance entertainment in the hall would hold, as the
fish traders had promised, and he did nothing, when this happy with
a so timid and sweet joy as he long dead years through it no longer
had tested.

Once, by some combination of ideas, he was fleetingly reminded of
a distant friend, Adalbert, Novel lists of who knew what he wanted,
and who has gone into the cafe to the spring air to escape.

And he jerked the arm about him ...

And who were the ladies? If their names were not known, could not a
description of their appearance be given? But no one had any definite
memory on these points; they were just like other sightseers. Was there
a tall woman with a brown cloak among them? Prescott put this question
to several people, but drew no affirmative reply until he found an old
coloured man who swept the halls. The sweeper thought that he did
remember seeing such a figure on the lower floor, but he was not sure,
and with that Prescott was forced to be content.

He felt that his search had not been wholly in vain, leading as it did
to what might be called the shadow of a clue, and he resolved to
continue it. There had been leaks before in the Confederacy, some by
chance and some by design, notably an instance of the former when Lee's
message to his lieutenant was lost by the messenger and found by a
Northern sympathizer, thus informing his opponents of his plan and
compelling him to fight the costly battle of Antietam. If he pursued
this matter and prevented its ultimate issue, he might save the
Confederacy far more than he could otherwise.

Richmond was a small city, difficult of entrance without a pass, and for
two or three days Prescott, abandoning the society of his friends, trod
its streets industriously, not neglecting the smallest and meanest among
them, seeking always a tall figure in a brown dress and brown cloak. It
became an obsession with him, and, as he now recognized, there was even
more in it than a mere hunt for a spy. This woman troubled him; he
wished to know who and what she was and why she, a girl, had undertaken
a task so unfitting. Yet war, he remembered, is a destroyer of
conventions, and the mighty upheaval through which the country was going
could account for anything.

He found on the third day his reward in another glimpse of the elusive
and now tantalizing brown figure under the brow of Shockoe Hill,
strolling along casually, as if the beauty of the day and the free air
of the heavens alone attracted.

The brown dress had been changed, but the brown cloak remained the same,
and Prescott felt a pang of remorse lest he had done an injustice to a
woman who looked so innocent. Until this moment he had never seen her
face distinctly, save one glimpse, but now the brown hood that she wore
was thrown back a little and there shone beneath it clear eyes of
darkest blue, illuminating a face as young, as pure, as delicate in
outline as he could have wished for in a sister of his own. No harm
could be there. A woman who looked like that could not be engaged upon
an errand such as he suspected, and he would leave her undisturbed.

But, second thought came. He put together again all the circumstances,
the occasions upon which he had seen her, especially that day of the
Morgan reception, and his suspicions returned. So he followed her again,
at a distance now, lest she should see him, and was led a long and
winding chase about the capital.

He did not believe that she knew of his presence, and these vague
meanderings through the streets of Richmond confirmed his belief. No
one with a clear conscience would leave such crooked tracks, and what
other purpose could she have now save to escape observation until the
vigilance of the sentinels, on edge over the robbery, should relax a
little and she could escape through the cordon of guards that belted in
Richmond.

She passed at last into an obscure side street and there entered a
little brown wooden cottage. Prescott, watching from the corner, saw her
disappear within, and he resolved that he would see her, too, when she
came out again. Therefore he remained at the corner or near it,
sauntering about now and then to avoid notice, but always keeping within
a narrow circle and never losing sight of the house.

He was aware that he might remain there a long time, but he had a stiff
will and he was bent upon solving this problem which puzzled and
irritated him.

It was about the middle of the afternoon when he traced her to the
cottage, but the fragment of the day remaining seemed long to him.
Golden shadows hung over the capital, but at last the sun went down in a
sea of flame and the cold night of winter gathered all within its folds.

Prescott shivered as he trod his beat like a policeman, but he was of a
tenacious fiber, and scorning alike the warnings of cold and hunger, he
remained near the house, drawing closer and watching it more zealously
than ever in the moonlight. His resolution strengthened, too; he would
stay there, if necessary, until the sunset of the next day.

More hours passed at a limping gait. The murmur of the city died, and
all was dark and still in the side street. Far into the night, nearly
twelve, it must have been, when a figure stole from the cottage and
glanced up the little ravine toward the main street, where Prescott
stood invisible in the shadow of a high wooden fence.

She did not come by the front door, but stole out from the rear. He was
convinced that he was right in his suspicions, and now every action of
this unknown woman indicated guilt to his mind.

He crouched down in an angle of the fence, hidden completely by its
shadow and the night, though he could see her well as she came up the
little street, walking with light step and watching warily on every
side. He noticed even then how strong and elastic her figure appeared
and that every step was instinct with life and vitality. She must be a
woman of more than common will and mould.

She came on, slightly increasing her speed, and did not see the dark
figure of the man by the fence. A hood was drawn to her eyes and a fold
of her cloak covered her chin. He could see now only a wisp of face like
a sickle of a silver moon, and the feeling that disturbed him in the day
did not return to him. He again imagined her cold and hard, a woman of
middle age, battered by the world, an adventuress who did not fear to go
forth in the night upon what he thought unholy errands.

She entered the main street, passed swiftly down it toward the barriers
of the city, and Prescott, with noiseless footsteps, came behind; one
shadow following the other.

None save themselves seemed to be abroad. The city was steeped in
Sabbath calm and a quiet moon rode in a quiet heaven. Prescott did not
stop now to analyze his feelings, though he knew that a touch of pique,
and perhaps curiosity, too, entered into this pursuit, otherwise he
should not have troubled himself so much with an unbidden task. But he
was the hunter and she the hunted, and he was alive now with the spirit
of the chase.

She turned toward the northwest, where the lines of earthwork were
thinnest, where, in fact, a single person might slip between them in the
darkness, and Prescott no longer had any doubt that his first surmise
was correct. Moreover, she was wary to the last degree, looking
cautiously on every side and stopping now and then to see that she was
not followed. A fine moon sometimes shed its full rays upon her, and she
seemed then to Prescott to be made of silver mist.

He, too, was most wary, knowing the need of it, and allowed the
distance between them to lengthen, clinging meanwhile to the shadow of
buildings and fences with such effect that when she looked back she
never saw the man behind.

They passed into the suburbs, low and straggling, little groups of negro
cabins stringing out now and then in the darkness, and the woman, save
for her occasional pauses to see if she were pursued, kept a straight
and rapid course as if she knew her mind and the way.

They came at last to a spot where there was a small break in the
earthworks, and Prescott saw the sentinels walking their beats, gun on
shoulder. Then the fugitive paused in the shadow of bushes and high
grass and watched attentively.

The pursuit had become curiously unreal to Prescott. It seemed to him
that he was in the presence of the mysterious and weird, but he was
resolute to follow, and he wished only that she should resume her
flight.

When the sentinels were some distance apart she slid between like a
shadow, unseen and unheard, and Prescott, an adept at pursuit, quickly
followed. They were now beyond the first line of earthworks, though yet
within the ring of Richmond's outer defenses, but a single person with
ordinary caution might pass the latter, too.

He followed her through bushes and clumps of trees which hung like
patches of black on the shoulders of the hills, and he shortened the
space between them, not caring now if she saw him, as he no longer had
any doubt of her purpose. He looked back once and saw behind him an
almost imperceptible glow which he knew was the city, and then on the
left beheld another light, the mark of a Confederate fortress, set there
as a guard upon the ways.

She turned to the right, leaving the fortress behind, passing into
country still more desolate, and Prescott thought it was now time to end
the pursuit. He pressed forward with increased speed, and she, hearing
the sound of a footstep behind her, looked back. He heard in the dead
stillness of the night the low cry of fright that broke from her. She
stood for a moment as if the power of motion had departed, and then fled
like a wounded deer, with Prescott, more than ever the hunter, swiftly
following after.

He was surprised at her speed. Clearly she was long-limbed and strong,
and for the time his energies were taxed to keep within sight of her
fleeing figure. But he was a man, she a woman, and the pursuit was not
long. At last she sank, panting, upon a fallen log, and Prescott
approached her, a strange mingling of triumph and pity in his heart.

She looked up and there was appeal in her face. Again he saw how young
she was, how pure the light of her eyes, how delicately moulded each
feature, and surprise came, as a third emotion, to mingle with the
triumph and pity, and not in a less degree.

"Ah, it is you," she said, and in her tone there was no surprise, only
aversion.

"Yes, it is I," replied Prescott; "and you seemed to have expected me."

"Not in the way that you think," she replied haughtily.

A wonderful change came over her face, and her figure seemed to stiffen;
every lineament, every curve expressed scorn and contempt. Prescott had
never before seen such a remarkable transformation, and for the moment
felt as if he were the guilty one and she the judge.

While he was wondering thus at her attractive personality, she rose and
stood before him.

"Now, sir," she said, "you shall let me go, Mr.----Mr.----"

"I am Captain Robert Prescott of the Confederate Army," said Prescott.
"I have nothing to conceal," and then he added significantly: "At
present I am on voluntary duty."

"I have seen enough of you," she said in the same unbending tone. "You
have given me a fright, but now I am recovered and I bid you leave me."

"You mistake, Madam or Miss," replied Prescott calmly, recovering his
composure; "you and I have not seen enough of each other. I am a
gentleman, I hope, at least I have passed for one, and I have no intent
to insult you."

"What is your wish?" she asked, still standing before him, straight and
tall, her tone as cold as ice.

"Truly," thought Prescott, "she can carry it off well, and if such
business as this must be done by a woman, hers is a mind for the task."
But aloud he said: "Madam--or--Miss--you see you are less frank than I;
you do not supply the omission--certain documents important to the
Government which I serve, and as important to our enemies if they can
get them, were taken yesterday from the office of the President. Kindly
give them to me, as I am a better custodian for them than you are."

Her face remained unchanged. Not by a single quiver of the lip or gleam
of the eye did she show emotion, and in the same cold, even voice she
replied:

"You are dreaming, Captain Prescott. Some freak of the fancy has
mastered you. I know nothing of the documents. How could I, a woman, do
such a thing?"

"It is not more strange than your flight from Richmond alone and at such
an hour."

"What signifies that? These are times of war and strange times demand
strange conduct. Besides, it concerns me alone."

"Not so," replied Prescott firmly; "give me the papers."

Her face now changed from its calm. Variable emotions shot over it.
Prescott, as he stood there before her, was conscious of admiration.
What vagary had sent a girl who looked like this upon such a task!

"The papers," he repeated.

Take it and keep it - I've never done it yet.

It has been said, one has even written and printed, the life that I hate
or despise or fear or hate. I like this one, it has flattered me,
but that it is no less wrong.

I love life ... They smile, Lisaweta and I know what. But I implore you,
do you think it is not literature, because what I say!

Think not to Cesare Borgia, or any drunken philosophy, which it collects
on the plate, he gives me nothing, that Cesare Borgia, I believe
not the least of it, and I will never understand how to use the
extraordinary and Demonic venerate as an ideal mag.

No, the> life <as eternal as opposed to the spirit of art and faces
- not as a vision of bloody size and wild beauty, not as the unusual,
it is unusual to represent us, but the normal, decent and love
Wohlanständige is the kingdom of our desire, is living in his
seductive banality!

It is far not an artist, my love, whose last and the deepest
enthusiasm Refined, Eccentric and Satan, who does not know the
longing for the innocent, and simple living, after a little friendship,
commitment, confidentiality and human happiness, -- the stealthy
and zehrende longing, Lisaweta, after the delights of ordinariness
...

A human friend! Would you believe that I am proud and happy to do that,
among people to have a friend? But so far I have only demons,
goblins, deep and insightful fiend silent ghosts, that is: under literary
friends had.

Sometimes devices on any platform, I find myself in a Saale people
who came to me to listen.

You see, then it happens that I am at a Umschau in the audience
watching, catch me, as I secretly umherspähe in the auditorium,
with the question at the heart of who it is, came to me, whose
applause and thanks to my urges, with whom my art I have created a
perfect union ...

I do not know what I'm looking for, Lisaweta.

I think the community, and flock to me is well aware, a gathering of
early Christians like: People with awkward bodies and fine souls,
people who always fall, so to speak, you understand me, and where
the poetry a gentle revenge on life, - Only at the end of suffering
and aspirations, and the poor and never anyone from the other, the
blue eyed Lisaweta, the mind does not need it ...

And it would not last an unfortunate lack of consistency, to rejoice
when it otherwise would ?

It is absurd, to love life and yet with all the arts endeavor to
be on his side to draw it for the finesse and melancholy, all the
sick nobles to win the literature.

The realm of art is increasing and the health and innocence decreases on
earth. One should, what else is left them, on careful preservation,
and one should not people who much prefer books in horses with
snapshots read poetry to seduce want!

After all, - what would be a pathetic sight than that of the life,
if it is tries in the arts?

We artists despise no one more thoroughly than the dilettantes, the
living who believes in the bargain opportunity once an artist can.

I assure you, this kind of contempt is one of my personal experiences.
I find myself in a society in a good home, we eat, drink and chat,
it is the best, and I am glad and thankful for a while under the
genuine and innocent people as their peers to be able to disappear.

Suddenly (this is addressed to me) there is an officer, a lieutenant, a
handsome and Strammer man, whom I never had a dress of his honor unworthy
action would have believed, and with unambiguous words, asks for
permission to tell us some verses which he had prepared .

It gives him, with shocked smiles, this permission, and he leads his
intention, as he slips from one, which he then in his lap skirt
has hidden his work aloud, something to the music and love, in
short, deeply felt as well as ineffective.

Now I ask anyone but a lieutenant! A man in the world! He would have it
but really not necessary ...! Well, there is what must be done: long
faces, silence, a little artificial applause and deepest malaise
around.

The first psychological fact, which I am aware of is that I feel guilty
at disturbing that this reckless young man brought about the
company, and no doubt me too, in his craft, he has fudged meet and
mockingly alienated gaze. But the second is that this man, in his Being
and beings, I just have the respect felt honest, in my eyes,
suddenly falling, falling, falling ...

A compassionate benevolence summarizes me. I am, like some other brave
and good-natured gentlemen, to get up and talk to him. > Congratulations,
"I say,> Lord Lieutenant! What a nice gift! No, that was excellent, <And
it is not missing much, that I have him on the shoulder knock. But
kindness is the sensation that you agree with an attitude towards
lieutenant has ...

His fault!

As he stood and lost in great embarrassment to the misconception
that one should pick leaves, one of laurel tree of art, with his
life without to pay for it.

No, because I believe it with my colleagues, the criminal banker -
--.

But can not find it, Lisaweta that I am today by a talkativeness
hamlets am? "" Are you finished now, Tonio Kröger? "No. But I say nothing
more. "" And it is also sufficient. - Are you expecting an answer? ""
Do you have one? "I dächte yet. - I have listened to you, Tonio, from
beginning to end, and I will give you the answer to everything fits
what you have said this afternoon, and the solution to the problem
that you are so very worried has.

So! The solution is the fact that you, as you sit there, just a citizen.
"" Am I? "He asked, and declined a little in together ..." Not true,
which makes you hard, and it must be indeed. And that's why I want
the verdict to soften somewhat, because I can.

You are a citizen of unsuccessful search paths, Tonio Kröger - a lost
people. "- Silence. Then he decided on and grabbed hat and stick.

"Thank you, Lisaweta Ivanovna, now I can safely go home. _Ich Am
erledigt._ «V Against the autumn said Tonio Kröger to Lisaweta
Ivanovna," Yes, I am going now, Lisaweta; I must auslüften me, I'm
doing me away, I'm looking for the distance. "" Well, how, fathers
Chen, deign to return to Italy to drive?

"" God, do me with Italy, Lisaweta! Italy is to me indifferent
contempt!

That is long ago that I einbildete, there are. Art, is not it?
Sammetblauer sky, hot wine and sweet sensuality ...

In short, I might not. I strongly reject. The whole beauty makes me
nervous. I like all these people terribly busy down there with the black
eye animal not suffer. These novels do not have a conscience in the
eyes ... No, now I go a bit to Denmark. "" After Denmark? "" Yes. And
I promise them good to me.

I'm from random hinaufgelangt never so close to me during my entire
youth of the border, and yet I have always been the land known and
loved.

I must keep this northern slope of my father because my mother was really
more for the beauty, if it is not making a whole everything was.

But you take the books that are written up there, these deep, pure and
humorous books, Lisaweta, - there is nothing about me, I love it.
Take the Scandinavian meals, this incomparable meals that can only be in
a strong salt air tolerate (I do not know if I they still agree
with), and I get from home a little familiar, because we already
eat so for me to home.

Take only the name, first name, which adorned the top people there,
and whom is also a lot in my home there, a sound like> Ingeborg <a
harp blow immaculate poetry.

And then the sea - the Baltic Sea, they have up there ... With one word,
I go up, Lisaweta.

I want to see again the Baltic Sea, wants to hear this first name again,
these books on the spot to read, and I will also appear on the terrace
of Kronborg stand, where the> Spirit <Hamlet came to hardship and death
to the poor, noble young man brought ... "" How you, Tonio, if I may
ask? Which route you take?

"" The usual, "said he shrugged and blushed clear. "Yes, I touch my
- my starting point Lisaweta, after thirteen years, and this can be
quite funny."

She smiled. "That is what I wanted to hear, Tonio Kröger. And then
go to God. Do not even write to me, you hear?

I promise me a letter full experience from your trip to - Denmark ...

«VI And Tonio Kröger drove north. He drove with comfort (because he used
to say that someone who inwardly it so much harder than other
people, just a little claim to have outer comfort), and he rested
not more, than the towers of the city close by which he assumed was
in front of him in the gray air collected.

There he took a short, strange stay ...

A dimmer afternoon was already in the evening, when the train in the
small, smoky, so strange familiar hall import; ballte still under
the glass roof of the dirty smoke into clumps together and pulled into
shreds stretched out and resist, as then, as Tonio Kröger, nothing
but ridicule in the heart, was driven from here. - He gave his
luggage, ordered that it be done to the hotel, and left the station.

The pair were the black, inordinately high and wide cabs in the city, the
outdoors in a row!

He took none of them, he saw them only on how it all installations,
the narrow pointed gables and towers, the roofs over the next
herübergrüßten, the blond and cool-clumsy people with its broad and
rapid speech still way around him, and a nervous laughter rose in
him to a secret kinship with sobs had. - He went on foot, went
slowly, the unremitting pressure of the wet wind in the face, over
the bridge, whose railings mythological statues, and a route along
the harbor.

Great God, how tiny and the whole angular appeared!

Were here all the time in the narrow alleys so cute gable steeply risen
to the city? The chimneys and masts of the ships swung softly in
the wind and twilight on the murky river. Should he go up the
street, there where the house was that he had in mind? No, tomorrow.
He was so sleepy now. His head was heavy on the ride, and slow,
misty thoughts went through his mind.

Sometimes in these thirteen years, when his stomach had been spoiled, he
had dreamed that he was back home in the old hall of the house
on the sloping Lane, that his father again, and it was hard because
of his occasional degenerate lifestyle, he was always very much in the
order had found. And now this present differed nothing from one of these
beguiling unzerreißbaren dream and imagination, in which one may
wonder whether this illusion or reality, and inevitably with the
conviction for the latter decides to still end up having to wake
up ...

He progressively through the little busy, draughty streets, kept his head
bowed against the wind and step-like sleepwalking in the direction of
the hotel, the first of the city where he wanted to stay.

Krummbeiniger A man with a pole, led by a fire burned Chen, with went
predominantly seamen step before him and lit the Gaslaternen on. How
was it him?

What was that anything under the ashes of his fatigue, without the
clear flame, so dark and painful glomm?

Still, still, and not a word! No words! He would like so long away,
the wind through the dim, traumhaft familiar streets.

But everything was so tight and close together.

Immediately, it was on target. In the upper town, there were arc
lamps, and exactly erglühten them. There was the hotel and there were two
black lions, previously beaten and faced as a child he had feared. Still
she looked with a face as if they sneeze, each other, but they
seemed a lot smaller since then. - Tonio Kröger went round between
them.

Since he came on foot, he was received without much ceremony. The porter
and a very fine, black Lord, who made the Honor and consistent with
his little fingers into the sleeve cuffs zurückstieß, scrutinizing him
and mustered wägend from the apex to the boots, visibly anxious,
socially it a bit to determine it hierarchical and bourgeois house
and him a place in their consideration to include, but without a
reassuring conclusion to why they chose a moderate politeness
decided.

A waiter, a mild man with bread strips blond whiskers, a bright dress and
old roses in the silent shoes, led him up two flights of stairs in a
neat and furnished altväterlich room, behind the window in the
twilight, and a picturesque view of medieval courtyards and gable
bizarre masses of the church opened, in the vicinity of the hotel
was located.

Tonio Kröger stood for a while before this window, then he seated
himself with crossed arms on the long-sofa, drew his brows together
and whistled to himself,.

It was light, and his luggage arrived.

At the same time, the mild Meldezettel the waiter on the table, and
Tonio Kröger painted with his head bent a little sideways that
looked like the name, status and origin.

Then he ordered a little supper, and went on his couch angle to
look into the void. As the food before him, he left it untouched for
a long time, finally took a few bites and went another hour in
rooms up and down, but he sometimes stehenblieb and eyes closed.

Then he undressed with slow movements, and went to bed.

He slept long, tangled in dreams and strangely nostalgic. - When he awoke,
he saw his room of bright days are met.

Confused and hastily he bethought, where he was, and went on to
the curtains to open.

Of the sky a little late pale-blue was fine, the wind zerzupften
Wolkenfetzchen crossed, but the sun shone on his hometown. He related
more attention to his toilet as usual, washed and shaved in the best and
made himself so fresh and cleanly, he had a visit in good, proper
home, where it applies, a neat and untadelhaften impression making,
and during the handling of the clothing he listened to the anxious
throb of his heart.

How bright it was outside! He would have felt more comfortable if, as
yesterday, twilight in the streets would have been, but now it should
be under the eyes of the people through the clear sunshine go. Would he
come to known, stopped, questioned, and speech must be how he spent
thirteen years?

No, thank God, it no longer knew him, and who is reminded of his, would
not recognize him, because he had really changed a bit under his. He
considered himself attentively in the mirror, and suddenly, he
felt secure behind his mask, behind his early working through the
face, older than his years ...

He had breakfast and then went out, went under the gaze of the
assessments of the doormen and fine gentleman in black through the vestibule
and between the two lions into the open round. Where was he? He scarcely
knew it. It was like yesterday. No sooner that he is again worthy of
this strange and urvertrauten proximity of gables, turrets, arches,
fountains surrounded saw that he had hardly the pressure of the
wind, strong wind, a delicate aroma and herbes from distant dream
to be led back felt in the face, as it is it like veils and mist
tissue appealed to the senses ...

The muscles of his face from the tight, and with a quiet glance,
he looked at people and things.

Perhaps that he was, at that street corner, but woke up ... Where was he?
He was, as is the direction which he action, in connection with his
sad and repentant strange dreams at night ... At the market he went,
under the vaulted arch of the Town Hall through, where bloody meat with
their hands goods weighed on the market, where high, pointed and
often the Gothic fountain stood.

There he stayed in front of a home, a small and simple, like others,
with a curved, perforated gables, and sank into his sight. He read the
nameplate on the door and let his eyes a little window on each of the
rest. Then he turned to walk slowly.

Where was he? Homewards. But he took a detour, making a walk before the
gate, because he had time. He went through the mill and the Wall
Holstenwall his hat and held firmly against the winds that swept
into the trees and creaked.

Then he left the walls in the immediate station, saw a train with
heavy Eilfertigkeit vorüberpuffen counted pastime for the car and
looked at the man, who zuhöchst on the last sat.

But at the Linde place before he made one of the most beautiful villas
halt, there stood, peered long into the garden and the windows up
and lapsed at the end to the gate entrance in their fishing and
forth herzuschlenkern so it shrieked.

Then he looked at his hand for a while, the cold and had become rusty,
and went on, went by the old, sat at gate at the port and along the steep
lane up to the drafty house of his parents. It was enclosed by the
neighboring houses, which its gable above, gray and serious as the
last three hundred years, and Tonio Kröger devout read the verdict,
the half-blurred lettering above the entrance.

Then he breathed in and went inside. His heart beat anxiously, because
he gewärtigte, his father could come from one of the doors on the
ground, where he vorüberschritt, emerge in Kontorhaus Rock and the
spring behind the ear, it sustained him for his extravagant life
strictly to the speech, which he has found in the regulations would
have.

But he did pass unmolested.

The Windfangtür was not closed, but only based what he perceived as
blameworthy, while at the same time felt it was like some light
in dreams, in which the obstacles in front of himself and a soft one,
of wonderful good fortune favors penetrates freely forward ...

The wide hall, with large, square stone tiles paved widerhallte of
his steps.

The kitchen to where it was stopped, jumped in ancient remains a
considerable amount of the strange, clumsy, but cleanly painted
Holzgelasse from the wall, which chamber maids, only through a kind
of free-lying by the stairs from hallway to reach.

But the large carved cabinets and chests were no longer there, which
had stood here ... The son of the House decided the huge staircase and
was based with the hand on the White, perforated wooden railing
by them at every step, and rose again the next time you gently let
it fall down, as shy as he tries, whether the former familiarity
with this ancient sound re-railing was ...

But on the landing, he stopped, in front of the entrance to the
mezzanine floor.

On the door was a white sign attached to the letters in black was to
read: National Library. Public Library? Tonio Kröger thought, because
he found that there is neither the people nor the literature something
had to search.

He knocked on the door ... One Herein was loud, and he followed him.
Curious, he looked gloomy and in a highly unziemliche change
it. The floor was three rooms deep, connecting doors open. The walls
were almost at full height with uniformly bound books covered in
dark frames stood in long lines.

In each room sat behind a kind of store table, a poor man and wrote.

Two of them turned their heads just after Tonio Kröger, but the first
was in a hurry, although he deals with both hands on the table was
based, the head vorschob, the lips a head, the brows and emporzog
the visitor with eager eyes looked wink ...

"Forgiveness," said Tonio Kröger, without the view from the many books
on contact. "I am a stranger here, I visited the city. This is the
public library?

Would you allow me a little insight into the collection gave?

"" Gladly, "said the officials, and even winked violent ... "Certainly,
this is all free. Do you only scout ...

Are you a catalog to go?

"" Thanks, "replied Tonio Kröger. "I guided me easily."

Thus he began, slowly along the walls to move, he gave the appearance,
as he studied the tracks on the books back. Finally, he published a
volume, opened it and turned to the window so .

Here was the breakfast room was.

It was here the morning of free time, not up there in the great dining,
where the blue wallpaper white statues of gods hervortraten ... That
there had served as a bedroom.

His father's mother had died, she was so old, with heavy fighting, because
she was a delightful lady and happy world was alive.

And later, his father had even done the last sigh, the long, accurate,
a bit melancholic and pensive Mr with the field in the buttonhole flower
... Tonio had at the feet of his deathbed, with hot eyes, honest and
totally dedicated to a dumb and strong feeling of love and pain. And
his mother had in stock gekniet, his beautiful, passionate mother,
completely dissolved in hot tears, what with the artists in the
southern Far blue was pulled ...

But back then, the smaller, third room, and now also completely filled
with books, which a poor man guarded, it was many years been his own.
He was there after school come home after having a walk, just as now,
made it to the wall, his desk stood, in his drawer he produced his first,
intimate and helpless verses ... The stores had Walnußbaum ... A stinging
melancholy durchzuckte him. He looked sideways through the window. The
garden was rough, but the old Walnußbaum stood at his place,
cumbersome and creaking in the wind rushing.
She
had been seen in the streets, rarely speaking to any one, and at the
markets making a few scanty purchases and preserving the same silence,
ascribed, it was said, to the probable belief on her part that she would
be persecuted because of her known Northern sympathies. Had any one been
seen with her? No; she lived all alone in the little house.

Such were the limits of the knowledge achieved by Prescott, and for lack
of another course he chose the direct way and knocked at the door of the
little house, being compelled to repeat his summons twice before it was
answered. Then the door was opened slightly; but with a soldier's
boldness he pushed in and confronted a thin, elderly woman, who did not
invite him to be seated.

Prescott took in the room and its occupant with a single glance, and the
two seemed to him to be of a piece. The former--and he knew
instinctively that it was Miss Grayson--was meager of visage and figure,
with high cheek bones, thin curls flat down on her temples, and a black
dress worn and old. The room exhibited the same age and scantiness, the
same aspect of cold poverty, with its patched carpet and the slender
fire smouldering on the hearth.

She stood before him, confronting him with a manner in which boldness
and timidity seemed to be struggling with about equal success. There was
a flush of anger on her cheeks, but her lips were trembling.

"I am speaking to Miss Grayson?" said Prescott.

"You are, sir," she replied, "but I do not know you, and I do not know
why you have pushed yourself into my house."

"My name is Prescott, Robert Prescott, and I am a captain in the
Confederate Army, as you may see by my uniform."

He noticed that the trembling of her lip increased and she looked
fearfully at him; but the red flush of anger on her cheek deepened, too.
The chief impression that she made on Prescott was pathetic, standing
there in her poverty of dress and room, and he hastened to add:

"But I am here on my own private business; I have not come to annoy you.
I merely want to inquire of a woman, a lodger of yours."

"I have no lodgers," she replied; "I am alone."

"I don't think I can be mistaken," said Prescott; "she told me that she
was staying in this house."

"And may I ask the name of this lady who knows more about my own house
than I do?" asked Miss Grayson with unconcealed sarcasm.

Prescott saw that her courage was now getting the better of her
timidity. He hesitated and felt his cheeks redden.

"I do not know," he was forced to reply.

Miss Grayson's gaze became steady and triumphant.

"Does it not then occur to you, Captain Prescott, that you are
proceeding upon a very slender basis when you doubt my word?"

"It is hardly that, Miss Grayson," he replied. "I thought--perhaps--that
it might be an evasion, pardonable when it is made for a friend whom one
thinks in danger."

His eye roamed around the room again and it caught sight of something
disclosed to him for the first time by the sudden increase of the
flickering blaze on the hearth. A flash of triumph appeared in his eye
and his boldness and certainty returned to him.

"Miss Grayson," he said, "it is true that I do not know the name of the
lady of whom I speak, but I have some proof of her presence here."

Miss Grayson started and her lips began to tremble again.

"I do not know what you mean," she said.

"I ask for the wearer of this," said Prescott, taking a long brown cloak
from the chair on which it lay and holding it up before Miss Grayson's
eyes.

"Then you ask for me," she replied bravely; "the cloak is mine."

"I have seen it several times before," said Prescott, "and it was always
worn by some one else."

He looked significantly at her and he saw again the nervous trembling of
the lip, but her eye did not quail. This woman, with her strange
mingling of timidity and courage, would certainly protect the unknown if
she could.

"The cloak is mine," she repeated. "It is a question of veracity between
you and me, and are you prepared to say that you alone tell the truth?"

Prescott hesitated, not fancying this oblique method of attack, but a
third person relieved them both from present embarrassment. A door to an
inner apartment opened, and the woman in brown--but not in brown
now--came into the room.

"You need not conceal my presence any longer, Charlotte," said the
newcomer impressively. "I thank you, but I am sure that we need no
protection from Captain Prescott."

"If you think so, Lucia," replied Miss Grayson, and Prescott distinctly
heard her sigh of relief--a sigh that he could have echoed, as he had
begun to feel as if he were acting not as a gentleman, but as a
persecutor of a poor old maid. The girl--Lucia was her first name, he
had learned that much--confronted him, and certainly there was no fear
in her gaze. Prescott saw, too, at the first glance, that she was
transformed. She was dressed in simple white, and a red rose, glowing by
contrast against its whiteness, nestled in her throat. He remembered
afterward a faint feeling of curiosity that in the dead of winter she
should be wearing such a rose. Her eyes, black when she was angry, were
now a deep, liquid blue, and the faint firelight drew gleams of red or
gold, he knew not which, from her hair; the hair itself looked dark.

But it was her presence, her indefinable presence that pervaded the
room. The thin little old maid was quite lost in it, and involuntarily
Prescott found himself bowing as if to a great lady.

"I have meant no harm by coming here," he said; "the secrets of this
house are safe as far as I am concerned. I merely came to inquire after
your welfare. Miss--Miss----"

He stopped and looked inquiringly at her. A faint smile curved the
corners of her mouth, and she replied:

"Catherwood; I am Miss Lucia Catherwood, but for the present I have
nothing more to say."

"Catherwood, Lucia Catherwood," repeated Prescott. "It is a beautiful
name, like----"

And then, breaking off abruptly, warned by a sudden lightning glance
from her eyes, he walked to the window and pointed to the white world
outside.

"I came to tell you, Miss Catherwood," he said, "that the snow lies deep
on the ground--you know that already--but what I wish to make clear is
the impossibility of your present escape from Richmond. Even if you
passed the defenses you would almost certainly perish in the frozen
wilderness."

"It is as I told you, Lucia," said Miss Grayson; "you must not think of
leaving. My house is your house, and all that is here is yours."

"I know that, Charlotte," replied Miss Catherwood, "but I cannot take
the bread from your mouth nor can I bring new dangers upon you."

She spoke the last words in a low tone, but Prescott heard her
nevertheless. What a situation, he thought; and he, a Confederate
soldier, was a party to it! Here in the dim little room were two women
of another belief, almost another land, and around them lay the hostile
city. He felt a thrill of pity; once more he believed her claim that she
did not take the papers; and he tapped uneasily on the window pane with
a long forefinger.

"Miss Catherwood," he said hesitatingly--that he should address her and
not Miss Grayson seemed entirely proper--"I scarcely know why I am here,
but I wish to repeat that I did not come with any bad intent. I am a
Confederate soldier, but the Confederacy is not yet so far reduced that
it needs to war on women."

Yet he knew as he spoke that he had believed her a spy and his full duty
demanded that he deliver her to his Government; but perhaps there was a
difference between one's duty and one's full duty.

"I merely wished to know that you were safe here," he continued, "and
now I shall go."

"We thank you for your forbearance, Captain Prescott," said the elder
woman, but the younger said nothing, and Prescott waited a moment,
hoping that she would do so. Still she did not speak, and as she moved
toward the door she did not offer her hand.

"She has no thanks for me, after all that I have done," thought
Prescott, and there was a little flame of anger in his heart. Why should
he trouble himself about her?

"Ladies," he said, with an embarrassed air, "you will pardon me if I
open the door an inch or two and look out before I go. You understand
why."

"Oh, certainly," replied Miss Catherwood, and again that faint smile
lurked for a moment in the corners of her mouth. "We are Pariahs, and it
would ill suit the fair fame of Captain Prescott to be seen coming from
this house."

"You are of the North and I of the South and that is all," said
Prescott, and, bowing, he left, forgetting in his annoyance to take that
precautionary look before opening wide the door.

But the little street was empty and he walked thoughtfully back to his
mother's house.


CHAPTER VIII

THE PALL OF WINTER


The deep snow was followed by the beginning of a thaw, interrupted by a
sudden and very sharp cold spell, when the mercury went down to zero and
the water from the melting snow turned to ice. Richmond was encased in a
sheath of gleaming white. The cold wintry sun was reflected from roofs
of ice, the streets were covered with it, icicles hung like rows of
spears from the eaves, and the human breath smoked at the touch of the
air.

And as the winter pressed down closer and heavier on Richmond, so did
the omens of her fate. Higher and higher went the price of food, and
lower and lower sank the hopes of her people. Their momentary joy under
the influence of such events as the Morgan reception was like the result
of a stimulant or narcotic, quickly over and leaving the body lethargic
and dull. But this dullness had in it no thought of yielding.

On the second day of the great cold all the Harleys came over to take
tea with Mrs. Prescott and her son, and then Helen disclosed the fact
that the Government was still assiduous in its search for the spy and
the lost documents.

"Mr. Sefton thinks that we have a clue," she said, identifying herself
with the Government now by the use of the pronoun.

Prescott was startled a little, but he hid his surprise under a calm
voice when he asked:

"What is this clue, or is it a secret?"

"No, not among us who are so loyal to the cause," she replied
innocently; "and it may be that they want it known more widely because
here in Richmond we are all, in a way, defenders of the faith--our
faith. They say that it was a woman who stole the papers, a tall woman
in a brown dress and brown cloak, who entered the building when nearly
everybody was gone to the Morgan reception. Mr. Sefton has learned that
much from one of the servants."

"Has he learned anything more?" asked Prescott, whose heart was beating
in a way that he did not like.

"No, the traces stop at that point; but Mr. Sefton believes she will be
found. He says she could not have escaped from the city."

"It takes a man like Sefton to follow the trail of a woman," interrupted
Colonel Harley. "If it were not for the papers she has I'd say let her
go."

Prescott had a sudden feeling of warmth for Vincent Harley, and he now
believed a good heart to beat under the man's vain nature; but that was
to be expected: he was Helen Harley's brother. However, it did not
appeal to Helen that way.

"Shouldn't a woman who does such things suffer punishment like a man?"
she asked.

"Maybe so," replied the Colonel, "but I couldn't inflict it."

The elder Harley advanced no opinion, but he was sure whatever Mr.
Sefton did in the matter was right; and he believed, too, that the agile
Secretary was more capable than any other man of dealing with the case.
In fact, he was filled that day with a devout admiration of Mr. Sefton,
and he did not hesitate to proclaim it, bending covert glances at his
daughter as he pronounced these praises. Mr. Sefton, he said, might
differ a little in certain characteristics from the majority of the
Southern people, he might be a trifle shrewder in financial affairs,
but, after all, the world must come to that view, and hard-headed men
such as he would be of great value when the new Southern Republic began
its permanent establishment and its dealings with foreign nations. As
for himself, he recognized the fact that he was not too old to learn,
and Mr. Sefton was teaching him.

Prescott listened with outward respect, but the words were so much mist
to his brain, evaporating easily. Nor did Mr. Harley's obvious purpose
trouble him as much as it had on previous occasions, the figure of the
Secretary not looming so large in his path as it used to.

He was on his way, two hours later, to the little house in the side
street, bending his face to a keen winter blast that cut like the edge
of a knife. He heard the wooden buildings popping as they contracted
under the cold, and near the outskirts of the town he saw the little
fires burning where the sentinels stopped now and then on their posts to
warm their chilled fingers. He was resolved now to protect Lucia
Catherwood. The belief of others that the woman of the brown cloak was
guilty aroused in him the sense of opposition. She must be innocent!

He knocked again at the door, and as before it did not yield until he
had knocked several times. It was then Miss Charlotte Grayson who
appeared, and to Prescott's heightened fancy she seemed thinner and more
acidulous than ever. There was less of fear in her glance than when he
came the first time, but reproach took its place, and was expressed so
strongly that Prescott exclaimed at once:

"I do not come to annoy you, Miss Grayson, but merely to inquire after
yourself and your friend, Miss Catherwood."

Then he went in, uninvited, and looked about the room. Nothing was
changed except the fire, which was lower and feebler; it seemed to
Prescott that the two or three lumps of coal on the hearth were hugging
each other for scant comfort, and even as he looked at it the timbers of
the house popped with the cold.

"Miss Catherwood is still with you, is she not?" asked Prescott. "My
errand concerns her, and it is for her good that I have come."

"Why do you, a Confederate officer, trouble yourself about a woman who,
you say, has acted as a spy for the North?" asked Miss Grayson,
pointedly.

Prescott hesitated and flushed. Then he answered:

"I hope, Miss Grayson, that I shall never be able to overlook a woman in
distress."

His eyes wandered involuntarily to the feeble fire, and then in its turn
the thin face of Miss Grayson flushed. For a moment, in her
embarrassment, she looked almost beautiful.

"Miss Catherwood is still here, is she not?" repeated Prescott. "I
assure you that I came in her interest."

Miss Grayson gave him a look of such keenness that Prescott saw again
the strength and penetration underlying her timid and doubtful manner.
She seemed to be reassured and replied:

"Yes, she is here. I will call her."

She disappeared into the next room and presently Miss Catherwood came
forth alone. She held her head as haughtily as ever, and regarded him
with a look in which he saw much defiance, and he fancied, too, a little
disdain.

"Captain Prescott," she said proudly, "I am not an object for military
supervision."

"I am aware of that," he replied, "and I do not mean to be impolite,
Miss Catherwood, when I say that I regret to find you still here."

She pointed through the window to the white and frozen world outside.

"I should be glad enough to escape," she said, "but that forbids."

"I know it, or at least I expected it," said Prescott, "and it is partly
why I am here. I came to warn you."

"To warn me! Do I not know that I am in a hostile city?"

"But there is more. The search for those missing papers, and, above all,
for the one who took them--a tall woman in a brown cloak, they say--has
not ceased, nor will it; the matter is in the hands of a crafty,
persistent man and he thinks he has a clue. He has learned, as I
learned, that a woman dressed like you and looking like you was in the
Government building on the day of the celebration. He believes that
woman is still in the city, and he is sure that she is the one for whom
he seeks."

Her face blanched; he saw for the first time a trace of feminine
weakness, even fear. It was gone, however, like a mist before a wind, as
her courage came back.

"But this man, whoever he may be, cannot find me," she said. "I am
hidden unless some one chooses to betray me; not that I care for myself,
but I cannot involve my generous cousin in such a trouble."

Prescott shook his head.

"Your trust I have not merited, Miss Catherwood," he said. "If I had
chosen to give you up to the authorities I should have done so before
this. And your confidence in your hiding place is misplaced, too.
Richmond is small. It is not a great city like New York or Philadelphia,
and those who would conceal a Northern spy--I speak plainly--are but
few. It is easy to search and find."

Prescott saw her tremble a little, although her face did not whiten
again, nor did a tear rise to her eye. She went again to the window,
staring there at the frozen world of winter, and Prescott saw that a
purpose was forming in her mind. It was a purpose bold and desperate,
but he knew that it would fail and so he spoke. He pointed out to her
the lines of defenses around Richmond, and the wilderness beyond all,
buried under a cold that chained sentinels even to their fires; she
would surely perish, even if she passed the watch.

"But if I were taken," she said, "I should be taken alone and they would
know nothing of Miss Grayson."

"But I should never give up hope," he said. "After all, the hunted may
hide, if warned, when the hunter is coming."

She gave him a glance, luminous, grateful, so like a shaft of light
passing from one to another that it set Prescott's blood to leaping.

"Captain Prescott," she said, "I really owe you thanks."

Prescott felt as if he had been repaid, and afterward in the coolness of
his own exclusive company he was angry with himself for the feeling--but
she stirred his curiosity; he was continually conscious of a desire to
know what manner of woman she was--to penetrate this icy mist, as it
were, in which she seemed to envelop herself.

There was now no pretext for him to stay longer, but he glanced at the
fire which had burned lower than ever, only two coals hugging each other
in the feeble effort to give forth heat. Prescott was standing beside a
little table and unconsciously he rested his right hand upon it. But he
slipped the hand into his pocket, and when he took it out and rested it
upon the table again there was something between the closed fingers.

Miss Grayson returned at this moment to the room and looked inquiringly
at the two.

"Miss Catherwood will tell you all that I have said to her," said
Prescott, "and I bid you both adieu."

When he lifted his hand from the table he left upon it what the fingers
had held, but neither of the women noticed the action.

Prescott slipped into the street, looking carefully to see that he was
not observed, and annoyed because he had to do so; as always his heart
revolted at hidden work. But Richmond was cold and desolate, and he went
back to the heart of the city, unobserved, meaning to find Winthrop, who
always knew the gossip, and to learn if any further steps had been taken
in the matter of the stolen documents.

He found the editor with plenty of time on his hands and an abundant
inclination to talk. Yes, there was something. Mr. Sefton, so he heard,
meant to make the matter one of vital importance, and the higher
officers of the Government were content to leave it to him, confident of
his ability and pertinacity and glad enough to be relieved of such a
task.

Prescott, when he heard this, gazed thoughtfully at the cobwebbed
ceiling. There was yet no call for him to go to the front, and he would
stay to match his wits against those of the great Mr. Sefton; he had
been drawn unconsciously into a conflict--a conflict of which he was
perhaps unconscious--and every impulse in him told him to fight.

When he went to his supper that evening he found a very small package
wrapped in brown paper lying unopened beside his plate. He knew it in an
instant, and despite himself his face flooded with colour.

"It was left here for you an hour ago," said his mother, who in that
moment achieved a triumph permitted to few mothers, burying a mighty
curiosity under seeming indifference.

"Who left it, mother?" asked Prescott, involuntarily.

"I do not know," she replied. "There was a heavy knock upon the door
while I was busy, and when I went there after a moment's delay I found
this lying upon the sill, but the bringer was gone."

Prescott put the package in his pocket and ate his supper uneasily.

When he was alone in his room he drew the tiny parcel from his pocket
and took off the paper, disclosing two twenty-dollar gold pieces, which
he returned to his pocket with a sigh.

"At least I meant well," he said to himself.

A persistent nature feeds on opposition, and the failure of his first
attempt merely prepared Prescott for a second. The affair, too, began to
absorb his mind to such an extent that his friends noticed his lack of
interest in the society and amusements of Richmond. He had been well
received there, his own connections, his new friends, and above all his
pleasing personality, exercising a powerful influence; and, coming from
the rough fields of war, he had enjoyed his stay very keenly.

But he had a preoccupation now, and he was bent upon doing what he
wished to do. Talbot and the two editors rallied him upon his absence of
mind, and even Helen, despite her new interest in Wood, looked a little
surprised and perhaps a little aggrieved at his inattention; but none of
these things had any effect upon him. His mind was now thrown for the
time being into one channel, and he could not turn it into another if he
wished.

On the next morning after his failure he passed again near the little
wooden house, the day being as cold as ever and the smoke of many
chimneys lying in black lines against the perfect blue-and-white
heavens. He looked at the chimney of the little wooden cottage, and
there, too, was smoke coming forth; but it was a thin and feeble stream,
scarcely making even a pale blur against the transparent skies. The
house itself appeared to be as cold and chilly as the frozen snow
outside.

Prescott glanced up and down the street. An old man, driving a small
wagon drawn by a single horse, was about to pass him. Prescott looked
into the body of the wagon and saw that it contained coal.

"For sale?" he asked.

The man nodded.

"How much for the lot?"

"Twenty dollars."

"Gold or Confederate money?"

The old man blew his breath on his red woolen comforter and thoughtfully
watched it freeze there, then he looked Prescott squarely in the face
and asked:

"Stranger, have you just escaped from a lunatic asylum?"

"Certainly not!"

"Then why do you ask me such a fool question?"

Prescott drew forth one of the two twenty-dollar gold pieces and handed
it to the man.

"I take your coal," he said. "Now unload it into that little back yard
there and answer no questions. Can you do both?"

"Of course--for twenty dollars in gold," replied the driver.

Prescott walked farther up the street, but he watched the man, and saw
him fulfil his bargain, a task easily and quickly done. He tipped the
coal into the little back yard of the wooden cottage, and drove away,
obviously content with himself and his bargain. Then Prescott, too, went
his way, feeling a pleasant glow.

He came back the next morning and the coal lay untouched. The board
fence concealed it from the notice of casual passers, and so thieves had
not been tempted. Those in the house must have seen it, yet not a lump
was gone; and the feeble stream of smoke from the chimney had
disappeared; nothing rose there to stain the sky. It occurred to
Prescott that both the women might have fled from the city, but second
thought told him escape was impossible. They must yet be inside the
house; and surely it was very cold there!

He came back the same afternoon, but the coal was still untouched and
the cold gripped everything in bands of iron. He returned a third time
the next morning, slipping along in the shadow of the high board fence
like a thief--he did have a somewhat guilty conscience--but when he
peeped over the fence he uttered an exclamation.

Four of the largest lumps of coal were missing!

There was no doubt of it; he had marked them lying on the top of the
heap, and distinguished by their unusual size.

"They are certainly gone," said Prescott to himself.

But it was not thieves. There in the snow he perceived the tracks of
small feet leading from the coal-heap to the back door of the house.

Prescott felt a mighty sense of triumph, and gave utterance in a low
voice to the unpoetic exclamation:

"They had to knuckle!"

But there was no smoke coming from the chimney, and he knew they had
just taken the coal. "They!" It was "she," as there was only one trail
in the snow, but he wondered which one. He was curiously inquisitive on
this point, and he would have given much to know, but he did not dream
of forcing an entrance into the house; yes "forcing" was now the word.

He was afraid to linger, as he did not wish to be seen by anybody either
inside or outside the cottage, and went away; but he came back in an
hour--that is, he came to the corner of the street, where he could see
the feeble column of smoke rising once more from the chimney of the
little wooden house.

Then, beholding this faint and unintentional signal, he smote himself
upon the knee, giving utterance again to his feelings of triumph, and
departed, considering himself a young man of perception and ability. His
amiability lasted so long that his mother congratulated him upon it,
and remarked that he must have had good news, but Prescott gallantly
attributed his happiness to her presence alone. She said nothing in
reply, but kept her thoughts to herself.

Inasmuch as the mind grows upon what it consumes, Prescott was soon
stricken with a second thought, and the next day at twilight he bought
as obscurely as he could a Virginia-cured ham and carried it away,
wrapped in brown paper, under his arm.

Fortunately he met no one who took notice, and he reached the little
street unobserved. Here he deliberated with himself awhile, but
concluded at last to put it on the back door step.

"When they come for coal," he said to himself, "they will see it, or if
they don't they will fall over it, if some sneak thief doesn't get it
first."

He noticed, dark as it was, that the little trail in the snow had grown,
and in an equal ratio the size of the coal pile had diminished.

Then he crept away, looking about him with great care lest he be seen,
but some intuition sent him back, and when he stole along in the shadow
of the fence he saw the rear door of the house open and a thin, angular
figure appear upon the threshold. It was too dark for him to see the
face, but he knew it to be Miss Grayson. That figure could not belong to
the other.

She stumbled, too, and uttered a low cry, and Prescott, knowing the
cause of both, was pleased. Then he saw her stoop and, raising his
supply of manna in both her hands, unfold the wrappings of brown paper.
She looked all about, and Prescott knew, in fancy, that her gaze was
startled and inquisitive. The situation appealed to him, flattering
alike his sense of pleasure and his sense of mystery, and again he
laughed softly to himself.

A cloud which had hidden it sailed past and the moonlight fell in a
silver glow on the old maid's thin but noble features; then Prescott saw
a look of perplexity, mingled with another look which he did not wholly
understand, but which did not seem hostile. She hesitated awhile,
fingering the package, then she put it back upon the sill and beckoned
to one within.

Prescott saw Miss Catherwood appear beside Miss Grayson. He could never
mistake her--her height, that proud curve of the neck and the firm poise
of the head. She wore, too, the famous brown cloak--thrown over her
shoulders. He found a strange pleasure in seeing her there, but he was
sorry, too, that Miss Grayson had called her, as he fancied now that he
knew the result.

He saw them talking, the shrug of the younger woman's shoulders, the
appealing gesture of the older, and then the placing of the package upon
the sill, after which the two retreated into the house and shut the
door.

Prescott experienced distinct irritation, even anger, and rising from
his covert he walked away, feeling for the moment rather smaller than
usual.

"Then some sneak thief shall have it," he said to himself, "for I will
not take it again," and at that moment he wished what he said.

       *       *       *       *       *

True to Redfield's prediction, the search for the hidden spy began the
next morning, and, under the direction of Mr. Sefton, was carried on
with great zeal and energy, attracting in its course, as was natural,
much attention from the people of Richmond.

Some of the comments upon this piece of enterprise were not favourable,
and conspicuous among them was that of Mrs. Prescott, who said to her
son:

"If this spy has escaped from Richmond, then the search is useless; if
still here, then no harm has been done and there is nothing to undo."

Prescott grew nervous, and presently he went forth to watch the hue and
cry. The house of Miss Charlotte Grayson had not been searched yet, but
it was soon to be, as Miss Grayson was well known for her Northern
sympathies. He hovered in the vicinity, playing the rôle of the curious
onlooker, in which he was not alone, and presently he saw a small party
of soldiers, ten in number, headed by Talbot himself, arrive in front of
the little brown cottage.

When he beheld his friend conducting this particular portion of the
search, Prescott was tempted, if the opportunity offered, to confide the
truth to Talbot and leave the rest to his generosity; but cool
reflection told him that he had no right to put such a weight upon a
friend, and while he sought another way, Talbot himself hailed him.

"Come along and hold up my hands for me, Bob," he said. "This is a nasty
duty that they've put me to--it's that man Sefton--and I need help when
I pry into the affairs of a poor old maid's house--Miss Charlotte
Grayson."

Prescott accepted the invitation, because it was given in such a
friendly way and because he was drawn on by curiosity--a desire to see
the issue. It might be that Miss Catherwood, reasserting her claim of
innocence, would not seek to conceal herself, but it seemed to him that
the evidence against her was too strong. And he believed that she would
do anything to avoid compromising Miss Grayson.

The house was closed, windows and doors, but a thin gray stream of smoke
rose from the chimney. Prescott noticed, with wary eye, that the snow
which lay deep on the ground was all white and untrodden in front of the
house.

One of the soldiers, obedient to Talbot's order, used the knocker of the
door, and after repeating the action twice and thrice and receiving no
response, broke the lock with the butt of his rifle.

"I have to do it," said Talbot with an apologetic air to Prescott. "It's
orders."

They entered the little drawing-room and found Miss Grayson, sitting in
prim and dignified silence, in front of the feeble fire that burned on
the hearth. It looked to Prescott like the same fire that was flickering
there when first he came, but he believed now it was his coal.

Miss Grayson remained silent, but a high colour glowed in her face and
much fire was in her eye. She shot one swift glance at Prescott and then
ignored him. Talbot, Prescott and all the soldiers took off their caps
and bowed, a courtesy which the haughty old maid ignored without rising.

"Miss Grayson," said Talbot humbly, "we have come to search your house."

"To search it for what?" she asked icily.

"A Northern spy."

"A fine duty for a Southern gentleman," she said.

Talbot flushed red.

"Miss Grayson," he said, "this is more painful to me than it is to you.
You are a well-known Northern sympathizer and I am compelled to do it.
It is no choice of mine."

Prescott noticed that Talbot refrained from asking her if she had any
spy hidden in the house, not putting her word to the proof, and mentally
he thanked him. "You are a real Southern gentleman," he thought.

Miss Grayson remained resolutely in her chair and stared steadily into
the fire, ignoring the search, after her short and sharp talk with
Talbot, who took his soldiers into the other rooms, glad to get out of
her presence. Prescott lingered behind, anxious to catch the eye of Miss
Grayson and to have a word with her, but she ignored him as pointedly as
she had ignored Talbot, though he walked heavily about, making his boots
clatter on the floor. Still that terrifying old maid stared into the
fire, as if she were bent upon watching every flickering flame and
counting every coal.

Her silence at last grew so ominous and weighed so heavily upon
Prescott's spirits that he fled from the room and joined Talbot, who
growled and asked him why he had not come sooner, saying: "A real friend
would stay with me and share all that's disagreeable."

Also, it was so ordered by him, that he learned such important and far
more interesting watch than the knowledge that he was in school
aufnötigte, yes, that it is during the lessons in the Gothic vaults
class usually so delivered, such insights to the reason to feel and be
completely up. And these jobs prepared him a very similar satisfaction,
as if he and his fiddle (he played the violin) in his room umherging
and tones, so soft as he could only arise in the ripple of the beam
into Spring tone had down there in the garden under the branches
of the old Walnußbaumes grew up dancing ...

The fountain, the old Walnußbaum, his violin and in the distance the
sea, the Baltic Sea, whose summer dreams he was allowed to eavesdrop
on holiday, these things were there, the he loved, with whom he was
almost surrounded and between those of his inner life happened,
things whose names with good effect in the verses to use and also really
into the verses that Tonio Kröger sometimes made, again and again
resounded.

This, that it was an issue with self-written verses had been through
his own fault and known him very damaged, with his classmates, both
as for the teachers.

The son of Consul Kröger one, it seemed as if it were common and
stupid, because stimulus to assert, and that he despised both the
classmates as the teacher, whose bad manners abstießen top of him,
and their personal weaknesses, he strangely insistent see through.

But he himself felt it unseemly dissipated and actually, to make verses,
and had quite a sense of all those who, for a strange job held.

Alone it could not drain them ...

Since he daheim vertat his time, slow and in teaching the humanities was
away and the teachers were poorly written, so he brought the
wretched resistant grades at home, which his father, a long,
well-dressed gentleman with blue eyes sensible question, which is
always a field in flower buttonhole wore very angry and distressed
showed.

The mother Tonios However, his beautiful, black mother, Consuelo with
the first name was called and all was so different than the other
ladies of the city, because the father once they are at the very
bottom of the map heraufgeholt had - his mother were the testimonies
Tonio grundeinerlei ... loved his dark and fiery mother, who so
wonderfully the wing and played the mandolin, and he was glad that
they are doubtful whether his position among the people not grämte.

But he felt that the wrath of the Father more decent and respectable
', and was by him although he was Olten was basically agree with
him, while he was the serene indifference of the mother a little
was dissolute.

Sometimes he thought about: It's just enough that I am, as I am,
and I do not want to change and may, through negligence, and unruly
things to consider to which no one else thinks.

At least one is that I am seriously Schilt and punisheth this, and
not with music and kissing it off.

We are no Gypsies in the green car, but decent people, Consul
Kroeger, the family of Kröger ...

Not infrequently he thought: Why am I so much in conflict with all
that disintegrated with the teachers and strangers among the other
boys?

See them, good students and the sound of mediocrity. You'll find the
teachers are not funny, they do not just verses and think things
you just think and you can pronounce loud.

How neat and agree with everything and everyone they must feel!

That must be good ... But what is with me, and how will it all end? This
way, himself and his relationship to life, to play an important
role in Tonios love for Hans Hansen.

He loved it at first because he was beautiful then however, because
he plays all his own game and cons contrary appeared. Hans Hansen
was an excellent student and also a fresh company, which rode,
gymnastics, swimming like a hero and the general popular.

The teachers were to him almost with affectionate tenderness, calling him
by name and encouraged him to all of the comrades were in favor of his
attention, and on the road stopped him gentlemen and ladies, it
took him to the Schopfheim bastblonden hair, under his hervorquoll
Danish sailor hat, and said, "Good day, Hans Hansen, with your nice
Schopfheim!

Are you still Primus? Grüß Papa and Mama, my beautiful boy ... "So was
Hans Hansen, Tonio Kröger, and since he knew, he felt longing, as
soon as he saw him, an envious desire, above the chest and sat on fire.
Who would have blue eyes as he thought, and so in order and happier
community with all the world lived like you! Always you are on a
wohlanständige respected and widely employed method.

If you've done the homework, so you take riding lessons or working
with the fretsaw, and even during the holidays, at the lake, you're
from the rowing, sailing and swimming is utilized, however, I
müßiggängerisch and lost in the sand and lie on the mysteriously
changing Miene Games rigid, over the bounding sea face.

But that your eyes are so clear. To be like du .. He did not attempt to
be as Hans Hansen, and perhaps it was not even very serious about this
desire. But he coveted painfully, as he was, he loved to be, and he
canvassed for his love to his nature, a slow and deep, devoted, suffering
and melancholic nature, but by a melancholy, the deeper and can burn
as zehrender all of sudden passion that one of his strange appearance
might have been expected.

And he promoted not quite in vain, because Hans, by the way a certain
superiority to watch him, an agility of the mouth, which Tonio
gifted, difficult to pronounce things, understood very well that
there is an unusually strong and delicate feeling for him was alive,
was grateful to him and prepared many a good fortune through his
kindness - and also some pain of jealousy, the disappointment and
the futile effort, establish an intellectual community.

For it was strange that Tonio, but the Hans Hansen for his Daseinsart
envied, constantly sought him for his own drag and drop, which at moments
of maximum and then only seems to succeed ...

"I now have something wonderful to read something Gorgeous ...«, he said.
They went out together and ate a bag of fruit candies, which they
Krämer Iwersen in Mühlenstrasse for ten pennies only had anden. "You
have to read it, Hans, it is> Don Carlos <von Schiller ...

I lend it to you if you want ... "" Oh, no, "said Hans Hansen," that
let only Tonio, which does not fit for me.

I stand by my horse books, weißt du Famos images is, I tell you. If
you look at me, I show them to you. There are now photographs, and
you see the Gäule at a trot and canter and jump, in all positions, which
in reality did not get to see because it goes too fast. .. "" In
all the positions?

"asked Tonio polite. "Yes, that's fine. But what> Don Carlos <concerns,
so it goes on all the terms. There are places therein, thou shalt
see, so beautiful that it is a pull there, that it almost bangs ...
"" knallt it? "Asked Hans Hansen ... "Why?"

"Because, for example, is the place where the king wept, because he
has betrayed the Marquis ... but the Marquis has him only betrayed the
Prince's sake, if you know for whom he sacrificed. And now comes
from the cabinet in the hallway the message that the king has wept.
> Tears <> The king cried?

<All are terribly Hofmänner enter, and there is a context and, because it
is a terribly rigid and strict king. But you understand it so well that
he has cried, and I do it actually more painful than the prince
and the Marquis put together.

He is always so alone and without love, and now he believes a man found
to have, and tells him ...

"Hans Hansen saw from the side in Tonios face, and something in him
had to face the objects probably win , as he suddenly pushed back
his arm under the Tonios and asked, "In what way betrays him because,
Tonio?"

Tonio fell in motion.

"Yes, the thing is," he began, "that after all the letters and Brabant
Flanders ... "" Here comes Jimmerthal Erwin, "said Hans. Tonio silent.
Would like him but he thought that the earth swallow this Jimmerthal!

Why must he come and disturb us! If it is not with us and goes all the way
from the riding speaks ... Because Jimmerthal Erwin also had riding
lessons.

He was the son of the bank director and lived out here in front
of gates.

With his crooked legs and slit eyes, he came to them, even without
a school pack, through the alley opposite. "Day, Jimmerthal," said
Hans. "I go a little with Kröger ..." "I have to the city,"
said Jimmerthal, "and arrange something. But I go a little with you ...
These are probably fruit candies, because it did? Yes, thank you,
I eat a few. Tomorrow we have hour, Hans. "- It was meant riding lessons."
Famos, "said Hans. "I now get the leather leggings, you, because the one
I recently had the Exerzitium ..." "You have no Reitstunden, Kröger?
"Asked Jimmerthal, and his eyes were just a couple of bare chinks
..."

No, "replied Tonio with emphasis entirely uncertain." You should be, "said
Hans Hansen," ask your father that you also get hours, Kröger. " "Yes
...«, said while hastily Tonio and indifferent.

One moment schnürte to his throat, because Hans him with last name was,
and Hans seemed to feel, because he said explanatory: "I call thee
Kröger, because your first name is so crazy, you apologize, but I
like it not suffer Tonio ...

That is absolutely no name. Way you can so no reason to forbid! "" No,
you probably called so mainly because it sounds so foreign and
something special is ...«, said Jimmerthal and did, as if he wanted
to talk to the good.

Tonios mouth twitched. He took up and said, "Yes, it's a silly name,
I want to know God, or rather Heinrich Wilhelm read that you can
believe me. But it is that a brother of my mother, after I was baptized
am, Antonio says, because my mother is from over there ... "Then he
was silent and let the two horses and leather stuff talk.

Jimmerthal Hans had untergefaßt and talked with a popular participation,
for> Don Carlos <never to awaken in him would have been ... From time to
time felt Tonio, as the urge to cry him tingling in the nose rose,
but he had trouble, his chin in the violence to keep the tremor
became resistant to ... Hans liked his name does not suffer - what was
there to do? He himself was called Hans, and Erwin Jimmerthal was, well,
that was universally recognized name, which nobody baffled. But>
Tonio <Expatriate and was something special.

Yes, it was in all the pieces of something special with him, whether he
wanted to or not, and he was alone and out of the ordinary and the
ordinary, although he was no gypsy in a green car, but a son Consul
Kroeger, from the family of Kröger ...

But why called him Hans Tonio, as long as they were alone when he was
adding a third, started in his shame? Sometimes he was close to him and
won, yes. The manner in which he betrays him because, Tonio?
He had asked him untergefaßt. But when it came Jimmerthal, he had
nevertheless breathed easier, had left him without him and his strange
nickname distress accused.

How did it hurt, all this need to understand ... Hans Hansen had him
basically a bit like when they were among themselves, he knew it. But
there was a third, so he is ashamed of this and sacrificed him. And
he was again alone. He thought of King Philip. The king has wept ...
"God forbid," said Erwin Jimmerthal, "now I must really be to the city!
Adieu, you, and thanks for the sweet fruit! "Then he jumped on a bench
that stood along the way, ran with his crooked legs, and trotted
along to them."

Jimmerthal I may suffer, "said Hans with vigor. He had a spoiled and
self-nature, his sympathies and antipathies kundzugeben, they distribute
almost mercifully ... And then he went on, from riding lessons to speak
because he was once in the course.

It was also not so far to the Hans Chen Wohnhaus; the way over the
ramparts was not that much time. They kept their hats and bowed their
heads before the strong, wet wind in the bare branches of the trees
creaked and groaned. And Hans Hansen said, while Tonio only and when
an artificial Oh Yeah introduced and had no joy that Hans him in zeal of
the speech had untergefaßt again, because it was only an apparent
rapprochement without significance. Then they left the walls in the
immediate station, saw a train with heavy Eilfertigkeit vorüberpuffen
included pastime for the car and waved to the man, in his fur masked
zuhöchst on the last sat.

And on Lindenplatz before wholesalers Hansens Villa, they were not,
and Hans showed in detail how amusing it was to the bottom of the
garden gate and to make fishing in the back and forth to swerve that
there is only so shrieked. But here he is adopted. "Yes, now I have
it," he said. "Adieu, Tonio.

The next time I accompany you home, be safe. "" Adieu, Hans, "said Tonio,"
it was nice to walk. "Her hands, which are expressed, were quite wet and
rusty from the garden gate.

But when Hans Tonios in eyes saw was something like repentis reflect on
his pretty face. "Incidentally, I will soon> Don Carlos <read,"
he said quickly.

"That with the king in the cabinet must be splendid!" Then he took his
portfolio under his arm and ran through the front garden. Before he
disappeared in the house, he nodded back again. And Tonio Kröger entirely
transfigured and went away elated. The wind carried him from behind,
but it was not a question alone, that he so easily by the body
came from.

Hans would> Don Carlos <read, and then they would have something together
what neither Jimmerthal nor any other could say, how well they understood
each other! Who knew - maybe he brought him to also write verses?
... No, no, he is not wanted! Hans should not be as Tonio, but remain
as he was, so bright and strong, like all loved him and Tonio most!

But it> Don Carlos <read still would not hurt ... And Tonio went
through the old, sat at gate, went on port and along the steep, wet and
drafty Gable Lane up to the house of his parents. At the time,
lived his heart, longing and melancholy that was envy and a little
contempt and a whole chaste bliss.

II The blonde Inge, Ingeborg Holm, Doctor Holmes's daughter, who lived on
the market, where high, pointed and often the Gothic Fountain stood,
it's that Tonio Kröger loved when he was sixteen years old. How was that?
He had seen it a thousand times, in one evening but he saw it in
a certain light, saw it in conversation with a friend on a certain
kind of wanton laughing his head to the side threw on a certain
kind of her hand, a not particularly narrow, not very fine young
girls to the back of hand held, with the white Gazeärmel from her
elbow zurückglitt, listened as a word, a careless word, a certain
kind of stressed, with a hot blade in her voice was, and took delight
his heart, far more than that which he previously had sometimes
felt, when he saw Hans Hansen, at that time, when he was a small,
stupid little boy.

That evening he took her picture with continued, with thick blond braid,
the long cut, smiling, blue eyes and delicate hint of saddle of
freckles on the nose, could not fall asleep because it is the blades
in their voices heard, tried quietly, to imitate the emphasis with
which she pronounced the word was indifferent, and erschauerte here.

The experience taught him that this was love. But although he knew exactly
that love him a lot of pain, distress and humiliation to have to show
that they also destroy the peace and the heart filled with melodies
on without that peace was a matter about to shape and composure somewhat
whole of it forge so he took it with pleasure that left her
completely and she with the forces of his mind, for he knew that
they do well and alive, and he longed, rich and alive to be held
in something Gelassenheit to forge a whole ...

This that Tonio Kröger to the funny Inge Holm lost, occurred in the salon
of the remaining Consul Husteede who met that evening, the dancing lessons
to give, because it was a private course, in which only members of first
families participated, and we are gathered round in the parental
homes to get lessons in dance and decency to grant leave.

But this week came Behufe ballet master Knaak specially came from
Hamburg. François Knaak was his name, and what a man was! "J'ai l'honneur
de vous represent me," said he, "mon nom est ...

Knaak And this one does not speak, while we bowed, but when one stands
upright again, - and yet significantly dampened. It is not every day be
able to rely on French to imagine, but it can be in this language
correctly and perfectly, then it is in German certainly not lacking.

"How wonderful the silky black frock coat on his fat hips hugs ! Fell
in soft folds his leg on his dress Lackschuhe down, with the broad Atlas
loops were adorned, and his brown eyes looked tired with a happiness
about their own beauty around ... everyone was overwhelmed by the
profusion of its security and Wohlanständigkeit.

He gradually - and none in stages as he, elastic, undulating, predominantly,
royal - the mistress of the house, bowed and waited, that one of his
hand.

He received it, so he thanked a low voice for the spring came back,
turned on the left foot, soared to the top right down to the ground
sideways and progressively with quivering hips like this ...

It went backwards, and bowing to the door also if you left a company,
you dragged a chair is not guilt by him or took a leg on the ground
pulled along, but we carried him easily to the back up and sat him
down silently.

It was not there by hands folded on her stomach and the tongue in
the mouth angle pushed, it nevertheless did so, Mr.

Knaak a way to make it just that for the rest of their lives revulsion
against this attitude saved ... This was the decency. But the dance was
so mastered him Mr. Knaak perhaps an even higher grade.
asked Miss Catherwood in a protecting voice,
laying her hand with a soothing gesture upon Miss Grayson's head.

Miss Grayson looked up and smiled weakly.

"It lasted just a little too long for my nerves," she said. "It was, I
suppose, what you might call a domiciliary visit. The man was an officer
with soldiers, though he had the courtesy to leave the men at the door.
He saw a light shining through a front window and thought he ought to
search. I'm a suspect, a dangerous woman, you know--marked to be
watched, and he hoped to make a capture. But I demanded his right, his
orders--even in war there is a sort of law. I had been searched once, I
said, and nothing was found; then it was by the proper authorities, but
now he was about to exceed his orders. I insisted so much on my rights,
at the same time declaring my innocence, that he became frightened and
went away; but, oh, Lucia, I am more frightened now than he ever was!"

Miss Catherwood soothed her and talked to her protectingly and gently,
as a mother to her frightened child, while Prescott admired the voice
and the touch that could be at once so tender and so strong.

But the courageous half in Miss Grayson's dual nature soon recovered its
rule over the timid half and she sat erect again, making apologies for
her collapse.

"You see, now, Captain Prescott," said Miss Catherwood, still leaving a
protecting hand upon Miss Grayson's shoulders, "that I was right when I
wanted you to leave us. We cannot permit you to compromise yourself in
our behalf and we do not wish it. You ran a great risk to-night. You
might not fare so well the next time."

Her tone was cold, and, chilled by it, Prescott replied:

"Miss Catherwood, I may have come where I was not wanted, but I shall
not do so again."

He walked toward the door, his head high. Miss Grayson looked at Miss
Catherwood in surprise.

The girl raised her hand as if about to make a detaining gesture, but
she let it drop again, and without another word Prescott passed out of
the house.

       *       *       *       *       *

One of the formal receptions, occurring twice a month, was held the next
evening by the President of the Confederacy and his wife. Prescott and
all whom he knew were there.

The parlours were crowded already with people--officers, civilians,
curious transatlantic visitors--and more than one workman in his rough
coat, for all the world was asked to come to the President's official
receptions. They had obeyed the order, too, and came with their bravest
faces and bravest apparel. In the White House of the Confederacy there
were few somber touches that night.

The President and his wife, he elderly and severe of countenance, she
young and mild, received in one of the parlours all who would shake the
hand of Mr. Davis. It was singularly like a reception at that other
White House on the Potomac, and the South, in declaring that she would
act by herself, still followed the old patterns.

It was a varied gathering, varied in appearance, manners and temper. The
official and civil society of the capital never coalesced well. The old
families of Richmond, interwoven with nearly three centuries of life in
Virginia, did not like all these new people coming merely with the stamp
of the Government upon them, which was often, so they thought, no stamp
at all; but with the ceaseless and increasing pressure from the North
they met now on common ground at the President's official reception,
mingling without constraint.

Prescott danced three times with Helen Harley and walked twice with her
in the halls. She was at her best that night, beautiful in a gentle,
delicate way, but she did not whip his blood like a wind from the hills,
and he was surprised to find how little bitterness he felt when he saw
her dancing with Mr. Sefton or walking with the great cavalry General
like a rose in the shadow of an oak. But he loved her, he told himself
again; she was the one perfect woman in the world, the one whom he must
make his wife, if he could. These men were not to be blamed for loving
her, too; they could not help it.

Then his eye roved to Colonel Harley, who, unlike General Wood, was as
much at home here as in the field, his form expanding, his face in a
glow, paying assiduous attention to Mrs. Markham, who used him as she
would. He watched them a little, and, though he liked Mrs. Markham, he
reflected that he would not be quite so complacent if he were in General
Markham's place.

Presently Talbot tapped him on the shoulder, saying:

"Come outside."

"Why should I go out into the cold?" replied Prescott. "I'm not going to
fight a duel with you."

"No, but you're going to smoke a cigar with me, a genuine Havana at
that, a chance that you may not have again until this war ends. A friend
just gave them to me. They came on a blockade runner last week by way of
Charleston."

They walked back and forth to keep themselves warm. A number of people,
drawn by the lights and the music, were lingering in the street before
the house, despite the cold. They were orderly and quiet, not
complaining because others were in the warmth and light while they were
in the cold and dark. Richmond under the pressure of war was full of
want and suffering, but she bred no mobs.

"Let's go back," said Talbot presently. "My cigar is about finished and
I'm due for this dance with Mrs. Markham."

"Mine's not," replied Prescott, "and I'm not due for the dance with
anybody, so I think I'll stay a little longer."

"All right; I must go."

Talbot went in, leaving his friend alone beside the house. Prescott
continued to smoke the unfinished cigar, but that was not his reason for
staying. He remained motionless at least five minutes, then he threw the
cigar butt on the ground and moved farther along the side of the house,
where he was wholly in shadow. His pretense of calm, of a lack of
interest, was gone. His muscles were alert and his eye keen to see. He
had on his military cap and he drew his cloak very closely about him
until it shrouded his whole face and figure. He might pass unnoticed in
a crowd.

Making a little circuit, he entered the street lower down, and then came
back toward the house, sauntering as if he were a casual looker-on. No
one noticed him, and he slid into a place in the little crowd, where he
stood for a few moments, then made his way toward a tall figure near the
fence.

When he was beside the house with Talbot he had seen that face under a
black hood, looking over the fence, and the single glance was
sufficient. Now he stood beside her and put his hand upon her arm as if
he had come there with her, that no one might take notice.

She started, looked up into his face, checked a cry and was silent,
though he could feel the arm quivering under the touch of his fingers.

"Why are you here?" he asked in a strained whisper. "Do you not know
better than to leave Miss Grayson's house, and, above all, to come to
this place? Are you a mad woman?"

Anger was mixed with his alarm. She seemed at that moment a child who
had disobeyed him. She shrank a little at his words, but turned toward
him luminous eyes, in which the appeal soon gave way to an indignant
fire.

"Do you know what it is to stay in hiding--to be confined within the
four walls of one room?" she said, and her voice was more intense even
than his had been. "Do you know what it is to sit in the dark and the
cold when you love the warmth and the light and the music? I saw you and
the other man and the satisfaction on your faces. Do you think that you
alone were made for enjoyment?"

Prescott looked at her in surprise, such was the fire and intensity of
her tone and so unexpected was her reply. He had associated her with
other fields of action, more strenuous phases of life than this of the
ballroom, the dance and the liquid flow of music. All at once he
remembered that she was a woman like another woman there in the ballroom
in silken skirts and with a rose in her hair. Unconsciously he placed
her by the side of Helen Harley.

"But the danger!" he said at last. "You are hunted, woman though you
are, and Richmond is small. At such a time as this every strange form is
noted."

"I am not afraid," she replied, and a peculiar kind of pride rang in her
tone. "If I am sought as a criminal it does not follow that I am such."

"And you have left Miss Grayson alone?"

"Miss Grayson has often been alone. She may dislike loneliness, but she
does not fear it. Listen, they are dancing again!"

She had not much dancing, the cavaliers had not tried it, and he had
them with harsh einsam closed lips on the wall sit look. Even now they
stand alone. She was dressed in bright and fragrant as the others,
but under the transparent fabric of her dress shone her bare shoulders
and pointed scanty, and the thin neck STAK so deep between these wretched
shoulders, that the quiet girl almost seemed a little overgrown. Her
hands, with thin mitt dressed, so she held prior to the flat chest,
the fingertips to gently touched.

Lowered head she gazed Tonio Kröger up from the bottom with black,
floating eyes. He turned away ...

Here, very close to him, sat Hans and Ingeborg. He had to her that perhaps
his sister was, and is surrounded by other children Rotwang people
ate and drank them, and enjoyed talking, cried with voices sounding
Neckereien to hell and laughed into the air.

Could he not take them a little closer? Not at him or her a joke word
addressed to him einfiel, and he with a smile at least had to answer?
It would make him happy, he longed after, he would be happier in
his room back, with the consciousness, a small community with the
two to have produced.

He thought of what he might say, but he did not have the courage to say
it.

It was, as always, yes: they would not understand him, would be baffled
to listen what he say vermöchte.

Their language was not his language.

Now, the dance seemed to begin anew to be. The adjunct unfolded a full
activities.

He went around and invited all the world to Hire, acknowledged the
help of the waiter with chairs and glasses out of the way, the
musicians gave commands and pushed Täppische individual who did not
know where, at the shoulders in front of her.

What did you do?

The four o'clock-four o'clock couples formed Karrees ...

A terrible reminder made Tonio Kröger blush.

They danced Quadrille.

The music continued, and the pairs exceeded under bow confused. The
adjunct commanded, he commanded, by God, in French, and brought
to the Nasallaute distinguished incomparably well.

Ingeborg Holm danced close to Tonio Kröger, the Karree which is directly
on the glass door was located. They moved in front of him to and fro,
forward and backward, turning and coordinated way, a scent, of her
hair, or the delicate fabric of her dress out, sometimes touched
him, and he closed his eyes in a sense, of which he ever so well-known,
whose aromas and bitter stimulus in all these last few days quietly
had difficulties, and it now back with his very sweet tribulation
fulfilled.

What was it? Longing? Tenderness? Envy? Self-contempt? ...

Moulinet of dames!

You laughed, blonde Inge laughs from me when I danced and Moulinet
me so pitifully foolish?

And would you still laugh, because now I do something like become
a famous man am?

Yes, that would you and would do it three times right!

"The most interesting one I ever smoked," replied Prescott.

Prescott found himself again with Mrs. Markham and walked with her into
one of the smaller parlours, where Mr. Sefton, Winthrop, Raymond,
Redfield and others were discussing a topic with an appearance of great
earnestness.

"It is certainly a mystery, one of the most remarkable that I have ever
encountered," said the Secretary with emphasis, as Prescott and Mrs.
Markham joined them. "We are sure that it was a woman, a woman in a
brown cloak and brown dress, and that she is yet in Richmond, but we are
sure of nothing else. "And it is not," the other continued, "with what
individuals encountered, equally? Law, the fate would have to determine
a good actor (and why should we not also provide with good actors?),
Unfortunately , the random but the young man into a puppet theater,
where he soon could not contain, Abgeschmacktem participate in
something, something fairly cheesy, probably even to find interesting
and so the youthful impressions, never to be quenched, where we
have a certain affection never escape can, from a wrong side to
receive. "" How do you get up puppet?

" Wilhelm fell him with some dismay admits.

"It was just an arbitrary example, if you do not like, so we take
another. Act, which would have a fate to a great painter determined,
and the coincidence is popular, in his youth dirty huts, stables and
barns to be violated, do you believe that such a man ever to cleanliness,
to the nobility, freedom of the soul will rise? With each lebhafterm
sense Impure he touched in his youth and has refined its kind, the
more violent it is in consequence of his life to avenge him by it,
now that he is looking to overcome with him sincere connected.

Who early in poor, insignificant society lived, will, if he later
improved may have always hanker after those back, while their
impression of him with the memory of young, rarely repetitive
pleasures remains.

"You may think that this conversation is after the rest of society had
removed.

Especially Philine was equal from the beginning to the side force. It was
a side to them back.

Philine Pfänder brought the show to which all had to be solved,
but the stranger by the type of inventions and informal participation by
the whole society and especially women's rooms, very recommended,
and so were the hours of the day with jokes, singing, kissing and all
the pleasant Neckereien past II.

Paper, 10 Chapter Tenth Chapter as she again wanted to go home, they
saw to their priests around alone, he was gone and no places to find.
"It's not like from the man, otherwise much of life seems to have,"
said Madame Melina, "a society which he so kindly, without leave
to leave."

"I have all the time even her calmly," said Laertes, "where I have
this strange man would like to have seen once.

I was just in term, the farewells to him to ask. "" I was just,
"returned Wilhelm," and I would certainly not dismiss him until he gave
us some details of his circumstances would have been discovered. I would
have to me very wrong, if I do not somewhere had already spoken.
"" And yet you could, "said Philine," is really wrong.

This man has just the wrong image of a friend, because he looks like
a man and not like Hans or Kunz. "" What should the hot, "said
Laertes," We do not even like people? "" I know what I say, "returned
Philine," and if you do not understand me, so let's be good. I will not
end or even my words to interpret.

"Two carriages drove before. It praised the diligence of Laertes, which
they had ordered.

Philine was beside Madame Melina, Wilhelm opposite, square, and the other
directed, so well as they could.

Laertes himself rode on horseback Wilhelms, which also came out
with, after the city back. Philine hardly sat in the car when she
like to sing songs and stories to the conversation to steer knew
of which they claimed that they are lucky with dramatically could
be dealt.
Markham, perhaps from an impulse of
mischief and perhaps from a natural love of sport, fostered, permitting
Prescott, to his relief, to retire into the background.

The Secretary's manner was smooth, silky and smiling; he never raised
his voice above its natural pitch nor betrayed otherwise the slightest
temper. He now led the talk upon the army, and gently insinuated that
whatever misfortunes had befallen the Confederacy were due to its
military arm; perhaps to a lack of concord among the generals, perhaps
to hasty and imperfect judgment on the field, or perhaps to a failure to
carry out the complete wishes of the Executive Department.

He did not say any of these things plainly, merely hinting them in the
mildest manner. Prescott, though a representative of the army, did not
take any of it to himself, knowing well that it was intended for the
General, and he watched curiously to see how the latter would reply.

The General surprised him, developing a tact and self-command, a
knowledge of finesse that he would not have believed possible in a rough
and uneducated mountaineer. But the same quality, the wonderful
perception, or rather intuition, that had made Wood a military genius,
was serving him here, and though he perceived at once the drift of the
Secretary's remarks and their intention, he preserved his coolness and
contented himself for awhile with apparent ignorance. This, however, did
not check the attack, and by and by Wood, too, began to deal in veiled
allusions and to talk of a great general and devoted lieutenants
hampered by men who sat in their chairs in a comfortable building before
glowing fires and gossiped of faults committed by others amid the reek
of desperate fields.

It was four o'clock in the morning when Prescott stood again in the
street in the darkness and saw the Secretary taking Helen home in his
carriage.


CHAPTER X

FEEDING THE HUNGRY


"It is now the gossip in Richmond," said Mrs. Prescott to her son as
they sat together before the fire a day or two later, "that General Wood
makes an unusually long stay here for a man who loves the saddle and war
as he does."

"Who says so, mother?"

"Well, many people."

"Who, for instance?"

"Well, the Secretary, Mr. Sefton, as a most shining instance, and he is
a man of such acute perceptions that he ought to know."

Prescott was silent.

"They say that Mr. Sefton wants something that somebody else wants," she
continued. "A while back it was another person whom he regarded as the
opponent to his wish, but now he seems to have transferred the rivalry
to General Wood. I wonder if he is right."

She gazed over her knitting needles into the fire as if she would read
the answer in the coals, but Prescott himself did not assist her, though
he wondered at what his mother was aiming. Was she seeking to arouse him
to greater vigour in his suit? Well, he loved Helen Harley, and he had
loved her ever since they were little boy and little girl together, but
that was no reason why he should shout his love to all Richmond. Sefton
and Wood might shout theirs, but perhaps he should fare better if he
were more quiet.

Lonely and abstracted, Prescott wandered about the city that evening,
and when the hour seemed suitable, bending his head to the northern
blast, he turned willing steps once more to the little house in the
cross street, wondering meanwhile what its two inmates were doing and
how they fared.

As he went along and heard the wind moaning among the houses he had the
feeling that he was watched. He looked ahead and saw nothing; he looked
back and saw nothing; then he told himself it was only the wind rattling
among loose boards, but his fancy refused to credit his own words. This
feeling that he was watched, spied upon, had been with him several days,
but he did not realize it fully until the present moment, when he was
again upon a delicate errand, one perhaps involving a bit of
unfaithfulness to the cause for which he fought. He, the bold Captain,
the veteran of thirty battles, shook slightly and then told himself
courageously that it was not a nervous chill, but the cold. Yet he
looked around fearfully and wished to hear other footsteps, to see other
faces and to feel that he was not alone on such a cold and dark
night--alone save for the unknown who watched him. At the thought he
looked about again, but there was nothing, not even the faintest echo of
a footfall.

The chill, the feeling of oppression passed for the time and he hastened
to the side street and the little house. It was too dark for him to tell
whether any wisp of smoke rose from the chimney, and no light shone from
the window. He opened the little gate and passed into the little yard
where the snow seemed to be yet unbroken. Then he slipped two of the
beautiful gold double eagles under the door and almost ran away, the
feeling that he was watched returning to him and hanging on his back
like crime on the mind of the guilty.

Prescott's early ancestors had been great borderers, renowned Indian
fighters and adepts in the ways of the forest, when the red men, silent
and tenacious, followed upon their tracks for days and it was necessary
to practise every art to throw off the pursuers, unseen but known to be
there. Unconsciously a thin strain of heredity now came into play, and
he began to wind about the city before going home, turning suddenly
from one street into another, and gliding swiftly now and then in the
darkest shadow, making it difficult for pursuer, if pursuer he had, to
follow him.

He did not reach home until nearly two hours after he had left the
cottage, and then his fingers and ears were blue and almost stiff with
cold.

He wandered into the streets again the next morning, and ere long saw a
slender figure ahead of him walking with decision and purpose. Despite
the distance and the vagueness of her form he knew that it was Miss
Grayson, and he followed more briskly, drawn by curiosity and a
resolution to gratify it.

She went to one of the markets and began to barter for food, driving a
sharp bargain and taking her time. Prescott loitered near and at last
came very close. There were several others standing about, but if she
noticed and recognized the Captain she gave no sign, going on
imperturbably with her bargaining.

Prescott thought once or twice of speaking to her, but he concluded that
it was better to wait, letting her make the advances if she would. He
was glad of his decision a few minutes later, when he saw a new figure
approaching.

The new arrival was Mr. Sefton, a fur-lined cloak drawn high around his
neck and his face as usual bland and smiling. He nodded to Prescott and
then looked at Miss Grayson, but for the moment said nothing, standing
by as if he preferred to wait for whatever he had in mind.

Miss Grayson finished her purchases, and drawing her purse took forth
the money for payment. A yellow gleam caught Prescott's eye and he
recognized one of his double eagles. The knowledge sent a thrill through
him, but he still stood in silence, glancing casually about him and
waiting for one of the others to speak first.

Miss Grayson received her change and her packages and turned to go away,
when she was interrupted by the Secretary, with no expression whatever
showing through his blandness and his smiles.

"It is Miss Grayson, is it not?" he said smoothly.

She turned upon him a cold and inquiring look.

"I am Mr. Sefton of the Treasurer's office," he said in the same even
tones--smooth with the smoothness of metal. "Perhaps it is too much to
hope that you have heard of me."

"I have heard of you," she said with increasing coldness.

"And I of you," he continued. "Who in Richmond has not heard of Miss
Charlotte Grayson, the gallant champion of the Northern Cause and of the
Union of the States forever? I do not speak invidiously. On the
contrary, I honour you; from my heart I do, Miss Grayson. Any woman who
has the courage amid a hostile population to cling to what she believes
is the right, even if it be the wrong, is entitled to our homage and
respect."

He made a bow, not too low, then raised his hand in a detaining gesture
when Miss Grayson turned to go.

"You are more fortunate than we--we who are in our own house--Miss
Grayson," he said. "You pay in gold and with a large gold piece, too.
Excuse me, but I could not help noticing."

Prescott saw a quiver on her lips and a sudden look of terror in her
eyes; but both disappeared instantly and her features remained rigid and
haughty.

"Mr. Sefton," she said icily, "I am a woman, alone in the world and, as
you say, amid a hostile population; but my private affairs are my own."

There was no change in the Secretary's countenance; he was still bland,
smiling, purring like a cat.

"Your private affairs, Miss Grayson," he said, "of course! None would
think of questioning that statement. But how about affairs that are not
private? There are certain public duties, owed by all of us in a time
like this."

"You have searched my house," she said in the same cold tones; "you have
exposed me to that indignity, and now I ask you to leave me alone."

"Miss Grayson," he said, "I would not trouble you, but the sight of
gold, freshly coined gold like that and of so great a value, arouses my
suspicions. It makes a question spring up in my mind, and that question
is, how did you get it? Here is my friend, Captain Prescott; he, too, no
doubt, is interested, or perhaps you know him already."

It was said so easily and carelessly that Prescott reproved himself when
he feared a double meaning lurking under the Secretary's words.
Nervousness or incaution on the part of Miss Grayson might betray much.
But the look she turned upon Prescott was like that with which she had
favoured the Secretary--chilly, uncompromising and hostile.

"I do not know your friend," she said.

"But he was with the officer who searched your house," said the
Secretary.

"A good reason why I should not know him."

The Secretary smiled.

"Captain Prescott," he said, "you are unfortunate. You do not seem to be
on the road to Miss Grayson's favour."

"The lady does not know me, Mr. Sefton," said Prescott, "and it cannot
be any question of either favour or disfavour."

The Secretary was now gazing at Miss Grayson, and Prescott used the
chance to study his face. This casual but constant treading of the
Secretary upon dangerous ground annoyed and alarmed him. How much did he
know, if anything? Robert would rather be in the power of any other man
than the one before him.

When he had sought in vain to read that immovable face, to gather there
some intimation of his purpose, the old feeling of fear, the feeling
that had haunted him the night before when he went to the cottage, came
over him again. The same chill struck him to the marrow, but his will
and pride were too strong to let it prevail. It was still a calm face
that he showed to the lady and the Secretary.

"If you have not known Captain Prescott before, you should know him
now," the Secretary was saying. "A gallant officer, as he has proved on
many battlefields, and a man of intelligence and feeling. Moreover, he
is a fair enemy."

Prescott bowed slightly at the compliment, but Miss Grayson was
immovable. Apparently the history and character of Captain Robert
Prescott, C. S. A., were of no earthly interest to her, and Prescott,
looking at her, was uncertain if the indifference were not real as well
as apparent.

"Mr. Sefton," said Miss Grayson, "you asked an explanation and I said
that I had none to give, nor have I. You can have me arrested if you
wish, and I await your order."

"Not at all, Miss Grayson," replied the Secretary; "let the explanation
be deferred."

"Then," she said with unchanging coldness, "I take pleasure in bidding
you good-day."

"Good-day," rejoined the Secretary, and Prescott politely added his own.

Miss Grayson, without another word, gathered up her bundles and left.

"Slumbering fire," said the Secretary, looking after her.

"Is she to be blamed for it?" said Prescott.

"Did my tone imply criticism?" the Secretary asked, looking at
Prescott.


CHAPTER XI

MR. SEFTON MAKES A CONFIDENCE


Prescott now resolved, whatever happened, to make another attempt at the
escape of Lucia Catherwood. Threats of danger, unspoken, perhaps, but to
his mind not the less formidable, were multiplying, and he did not
intend that they should culminate in disaster. The figure of that woman,
so helpless and apparently the sole target at this moment of a powerful
Government, made an irresistible appeal to him.

But there were moments of doubt, when he asked himself if he were not
tricked by the fancy, or rather by a clever and elusive woman--as
cunning as she was elusive--who led him, and who looked to the end and
not to the means. It meant they, and they did, and again after they had
come to rest, was a beautiful brown, although only few red rose
complexion. By sacrilegious Philine stimuli, through the mysterious
presence of the child more than he himself confess could have brought
Wilhelm several days in this strange society, and justified himself to
himself by a diligent exercise in fencing and dancing, which he is not
so easy to find once again opportunity believed.

Not little surprised and somewhat pleased he was when he one day Mr and
Mrs Melina arrive saw that right after the first joyful greeting based
on the Direct Rice and the other actors and inquired with great horror
heard that those are long distance and have them until a few were
scattered.

The young couple after they had connected to which, as we know, William
had to help, in some places after engagement around, found none and was
finally shown in this town, where some people who encountered them on a
good theater seen have wanted. Philine wanted Madame Melina, Melina
and the lively Mr. Laertes, when she made the acquaintance, no way
fallen.

They wanted the new comers like to be rid, and Wilhelm could not give
them favorable attitudes teach them the same whether he repeatedly assured
that there were fairly good people. It was also the past life of our
three merry adventurers through the expansion of the company on more
ways than one disrupted because Melina began at the inn (he had
ebendemselben in which Philine lived place) at the market and bitching
at. He wanted to for less money, better neighborhood, ample food and
prompt service have. In a short time, host and waiter sullen faces, and
when the others in order to live happy, everything would have
fallen swiftly and only paid, if not longer to think about what has
already been eaten, it was the meal, Melina regularly immediately
corrected at any time from the front again durchgenommen, so that
without him Philine circumstances ruminant animal called.

Still hated Madame Melina was the funny girl. This young woman was not
without education, but it totally lacked the spirit and soul. They
declaimed not bad and always wanted to declaim; alone you noticed
soon that there was only one Wortdeklamation, which weighed on individual
agencies and the sensation of the whole is not expressed. For all this,
she was not someone easily, especially women, uncomfortable. Rather,
it wrote those who worked around with it, usually a good reason
to: she was, what I do with a word is a Anempfinderin would like
to mention, they knew a friend, whose respect for her to do, with
a special attention to flatter, in his ideas as long as possible
to meet as soon as they are entirely on their horizon were ecstatic
with such a new appearance record.

She understood to speak and to speak and whether they are equal no
treacherous mind was keep up with great caution, where the other side
wants to be weak. II Paper, 6 Chapter Sixth Chapter Melina had, however,
after the rubble of the previous management just asked. Both as a dressing
room decorations were at several trade puts people, and a Notarius
was mandated by the Rice Direct, under certain conditions if he
were lovers in the sale of free-hand to willing.

Melina wanted things correctly and moved Wilhelmer with it. This felt
when they opened the room, a certain inclination to which he himself
but not admitted.

In such a poor state gekleckst the decorations were so few apparently
also Turkish and pagan dresses, skirts cartoon old for men and
women, habits Wizard, Jews and parsons be liked, so he could but
not help feeling that he happiest moments of his life in the vicinity
of a similar junk Krams had.

Had Melina in his heart can see, he would him eager added, a
sum of money to the relief, development and revitalization of these new
limbs scattered to a beautiful whole missions. "What a lucky man," said
Melina out, "I could be if I only had two hundred thalers, in order to
top the holding of this first theatrical needs to obtain. How soon
do I get a small acting together, that we in this city in this area
should certainly eat immediately. " William was silent, and both
left the thoughtful re-imprisoned treasures.

Melina had by that time no discourse other than projects and proposals
on how to set up a theater and could be its advantage. He looked Philine
and Laertes to be interested, and we did Wilhelmer proposals, money
and security herzuschießen opposed to. That was only right on this
occasion, that he would not have to linger, he apologized and wanted
to make institutions, to continue his journey.

Meanwhile, he Mignon shape and nature has become increasingly irritating.
In all his actions and had let the child something Odd. It was
neither on the stairs yet, but jumped and it went up on the railings
of course gone, and before you versah's, it sat on top of the barrier
and remained quiet for a while.

Wilhelm had also noticed that for each particular type of greeting did.
He saluted them for some time on the breast with beaten poor.

Some days, they are silent, at times they responded to several more
questions, always curious, but so that we could not distinguish
whether it is a joke, or ignorance of the language was, by a
gebrochnes with French and Italian German durchflochtenes said.

In his services had the child unermüdet and early with the sun on it,
however, lost the evening time, slept in a chamber on the bare earth
and there was nothing moving, having a bed or a sack of straw to.

He found them often that they are washed. Even their clothes were
clean, although nearly all double and triple to her was patched. Man
Wilhelmer also said that they were all very early in the morning the
fair go, where he followed her once and she in the corner of the church
with the Rosary and kneel reverently pray saw. You noticed him, he
went home, did many thoughts about this figure and it could think
of nothing specific.

Andringen New Melinas a sum of money to release more of the mentioned
theater equipment even more certain Wilhelmer to his departure to think.
He wanted those with him, the long nothing was heard of him, even
with today's post-days to write, he really started a letter to
Werner, and was with his adventure story, while he, without even
noted that several of the truth removed had already come quite far,
as he said to his annoyances on the rear side of the letter sheet
has been written some verses, which he made for Madame Melina its
board had begun to copy.

Unwilling he tore the leaf and delayed the recurrence of his commitment
to the next Posttag II. Paper, 7 Chapter Seventh Chapter Our society was
once again together, and Philine, on every horse that has passed,
and in any car, the anfuhr, was extremely attentive, cried with
great vivacity: "Our Pedant!

Here comes our allerliebsten Pedant!

Whom it may with you? " They cried and waved out the window, and the
car was silent. A miserable poor devils, the man at his verschabten,
graulich Rocke-brown and its sub übelkonditionierten for a master's
clothes, how they maintain academies to decay, had to follow, grew
out of the car and denuded by, Philine to salute the hat abtat a
übelgepuderte, incidentally, but very stiff wig and Philine threw
him to one hundred Kußhände.

Just as they found their bliss, a part of men to love their love to enjoy
the pleasure that was not much lower, which they were often as possible,
and the rest, they just in this moment is not loved in a very reckless
way to have the best. about the noise, making these old friend
received forgot you, on the other to ensure that followed him.

But Wilhelm believed the two women's rooms and an elderly man who
was with them hereintrat to know. Also what was soon discovered that
they are all three a few years ago when the company set up in his
hometown to play, had seen several times. The daughters were grown up
since the time, but the old man had changed little.

This usually played the good-natured, polternden elderly, which the
German theater is not empty and the man in life is often nasty encounters.
Indeed, since it is the character of our fellow countrymen is the best
without much pomp to do and afford, so they seldom think that it is also
a kind of possessing the rights, with delicacy and grace to do, and
decay much more of a spirit of Opposition driven easily into the error
by a morose beings their favorite virtue in contrast display.

Such roles played our very good actor and he played it so often and only
that he is going to have a similar nature to amount to life in general
had . William fell in the great movement, as soon as he saw him, for he
remembered how often he the man next to his beloved Mariane at the
theater had seen, he heard him scold, he heard her flattering voice,
with his harsh education in some roles had to deal with.

The first question to the vibrant new comers, whether a sub-Come away
to find and hope that was, unfortunately, no answer, and you had
to hear that the companies in which we inquired, and some occupied
even in these concerns are because of the impending war divided them.

The old woman had polternde with his daughters from annoyances and
love to change an advantageous engagement abandoned, had with the
pedant, he antraf unterwegs, rented a car to hieherzukommen about
where and how they found, good advice is expensive.

The time in which the rest of their affairs very lively person,
thoughtfully brought to Wilhelm.

He wished the old alone to speak, and wished feared to hear of the
Marianas, and was in the greatest unease.

The style of the room neuangekommenen woman he could not pull out of his
dream, but a verbal exchange of erhub, made him aware.

It was Frederick, the blonde boy who elevate Philine used, but this lively
resisted when he set the table and eat herbeischaffen should.

"I am committed," he exclaimed, "you serve, but not all people
aufzuwarten." It came about in a violent dispute. Philine insisted
that he did his duty to do, and when he stubbornly refused, she
said to him without conditions, he could go wherever he wanted.

"Do you think that I am not you could remove? " he exclaimed, defiantly
went away, did his set and immediately rushed to the house beyond.

"Go, Mignon," said Philine, and creating us what we need, tell the waiter,
and help wait! "Mignon before Wilhelm stepped out and asked, in her
laconic nature:" Should I? May I? " And Wilhelm returned: "Tu, my child,
what you said Mademoiselle."

The child is anxious and waiting for all the entire evening with great
care to the guests.

Desserts looked at Wilhelm with the old for a walk alone to make: it
was him, and after many questions, so far as it went, the conversation
turned to the former company, and William ventured last, after
Marianas to ask.

"Tell me nothing of the hideous creature! " cried the old man, "I have
verschworen, no more to them to think." William was shocked about this
expression, but was still greater embarrassment than the old man
continued, their flippancy and dissoluteness away.

As our friend would have canceled the interview, he was now alone once
the fruits of polternden whimsical man to endure. "I am ashamed," drove
this continues, "that I was her so inclined. But if you had known the
girl closer, they would I certainly apologize.

She was so good, of course, well, so pleasing and fairly in every
sense. I never have been presented that insolence and ingratitude the
main traits of their character should be.

"Even Wilhelm had taken made the worst of it to hear, as he
once remarked with surprise that the tone of the Old was mild, his
speech finally faltered and he has a handkerchief from his pocket
was, in order to dry the tears, the most recently interrupted his
speech.

"What is you?"

William cried out. "What are your feelings at once such an opposite
direction? Hiding it is not me, I suppose the fate of this girl
more than you think, just let me know everything." "I have little to
say," returned the Old, he returned to his serious, morose tone
transferred, "I will never forgive what I have tolerated them. She
had," he continued, "is always a degree of confidence in me and I loved
her as my daughter and had, since my wife was still alive, the
decision taken by them to me to take them from the hands of the
elderly to save that of their instruction, I do not promise much
good.

My wife died, the project broke itself. the opposite end the father of
your stay in town, it's not even three years, I noticed her in a
visible sadness, I asked them, but most of them.

At last we got on the trip. She drove with me in a wagon, and I noticed
what they told me too, soon confessed that she had high hopes and the
greatest fear of floating by our director to be violated. Also, it took
only a short time, so he made the discovery, announced her contract,
which in any case only at six weeks was, at once, paid what they had
to call, and let them despite all the ideas, in a small town,
in a bad inn back. The executioner hole dissolute all prostitutes,
"cried the old man with annoyances," and especially those which I love
so many hour of my life has spoiled.

How long should I tell her how I accepted what I did for them, what do
they hanged, as I explain in the absence of it should have. I would
prefer my money into the pond and throw to take my time, to educate
mangy dogs than ever in such a creature the least attention, contact.

What was it? In the beginning I received thanksgiving letters, news
of some places of their residence, and no last word, not even gratitude
for the money that I give her to the weekly had cleverly. O and the
adjustment of the recklessness of the women is quite zusammengepaart to
give them a comfortable life and an honest guy, some sullen hour
to create!

"Book II, 8 Chapter Eight Chapter Consider the Wilhelms state when
he referred to this interview came home.

All of his old wounds were torn open again and the feeling that his love
was not entirely unworthy, have become lively again, because in the
interests of the elderly, in the praise that he opposed her desire
to kill our friends had their All kindness reappeared, even the fierce
indictment of the man's passionate contained nothing that they would
reduce Wilhelms eyes can. Because this is known as an accomplice of their
own misconduct, and her silence seemed to last term is not perfect,
he did much more than just sad thought about, saw it as a woman as
a mother in the world without Hülfe wander around, probably with
his own children wander around, ideas, what the most painful feeling
aroused in him.

Mignon had waited on him and lit him up the stairs. When the light had
settled, she asked him to allow him tonight with a feats should
wait.

He would have preferred verbeten, especially since he did not know what
it should be. With this he could not refuse good creatures.
After a short time She re-enters. They wore a rug under the arms, which
she spread on the earth. Wilhelm had them granted. brought to you
four lights, put one on every corner of the carpet. A basket with eggs,
which they won it, made the intention clearer. Artificially measured
phasing them now on the carpet back and forth and put in some dimensions
the eggs apart, then she called a man come in the house up all time and
played the violin.

He came with his instruments in the corner, they connected to the
eye, gave the sign and started simultaneously with the music,
like a factory wheels raised, their movements, they beat and melody
with the stroke of castanets accompanied. nimbly, lightly, quickly,
exactly led them to the dance.

She joined so sharp and so sure of the eggs inside the eggs with down,
every moment that you thought they have to crush or fast turns, the others
continued hurl. No way! She touched none, whether they are equal with all
kinds of steps, narrow and wide, even with jumps and half-kneeling
to last through the ranks through. unstoppable like clockwork they
ran their way, and the strange music was always the top of the front
and punch losrauschenden at each repetition a new collision.

William was of the shows very strange enchanted, he forgot all his worries,
followed every movement of the beloved creature and was surprised, as
provided in this punch her character excellently developed. Streng,
sharp, dry, intense, and more positions in soft solemnly as pleasant
had appeared.

He felt, what he's for Mignon felt in that moment at a time.

He longed, this abandoned child of nature instead of his heart
einzuverleiben it in his arms to take and with the love of a
father's joy of life in him to awaken. The Dance came to an end, they
rolled the eggs gently with the feet together on a heap, none had
returned, damaged and none turned to by the bandage from his eyes and
took her art piece ends with a kipper. Wilhelm thanked her that they
dance, which he wished to see, so spectacular and unexpected submitted.
He stroked it and regretted that it's had become so sour.

He promised her a new dress, which she vehemently replied, "Your color!"
he also promised her that he knew not clear, including what they mean.
She took the eggs together, the carpet under his arm, asked if he
still had something to commend, and swung on the door out.

From the musician, he learned that it is some time since a lot of
trouble, his dancing, which The famous fandango, so long vorzusingen
until he had to play.

Also they have him for his efforts offered some money, which he
does not want to take II.

Paper, 9 Ninth chapter after chapter of a restless night, our friend
partly awake, partly by heavy geängstigt zubrachte dream in which he soon
Marianas in all beauty, soon to be in poor shape, now with a child
in her arms, deprived of the same soon saw, was the Tomorrow hardly
begun, as already Mignon with a tailor hereintrat. She brought gray cloth
and blue Taffet and explained according to their nature, that they have
a new West Schifferstadt Chen and trousers, as such to the boys in the
city, with blue cuffs and bands have wanted. Wilhelm had since the loss
Marianas all frisky colors stored .

He had the gray, the clothes of the shadow, used, and only about a
sky-blue lining and a small collar of this color enlivened somewhat
quiet those clothes. Mignon, eager to contribute to its color, drove the
tailor, in recent work to deliver promised. The sword dance and
hours that our friend today with Laertes adopted, would not the best
succeed.

Also, they were soon replaced by Melinas arrival interrupted the awkward
showed how a small company that together with what you already have
enough pieces could perform. He renewed his request that Wilhelm etablissement
much money should stretch, but this again showed his indecision.

Philine and the girls were soon laughing and with this noise inside. They
had again a ride out, because changing the place and the property was a
pleasure, after which she always yearned. Every day at a different
places to eat was her highest desire. This should be a water ride. The
ship, which they mean curvatures of the pleasant river hinunterfahren
wanted was already ordered by the Pedant.

Philine drove the company zauderte not and was soon embarked. "What do
we now?" Philine said by all the banks were established. "The shortest
would be" staggered Laertes, "we extemporaneous a piece.
They were now close to the fortifications
and could see the sentinels, as they walked the earthworks, blowing on
their fingers to keep them warm. On one side they caught a slight
glimpse of the river, a sheet of ice in its bed, and on the other the
hills, with the trees glittering in icy sheaths like coats of mail.

"It is time to turn back," said Mr. Sefton, "and I wish to say again
that I like you, but I also warn you once more that I shall not spare
you because of it; my weakness does not go so far. I wish you out of my
way, and I have offered you an alternative which you decline. Many men
in my position would have crushed you at once; so I take credit to
myself. You adhere to your refusal?"

"Certainly I do," replied Prescott with emphasis.

"And you take the risk?"

"I take the risk."

"Very well, there is no need to say more. I warn you to look out for
yourself."

"I shall do so," replied Prescott, and he laughed lightly and with a
little irony.

They walked slowly back to the city, saying no more on the subject which
lay nearest to their hearts, but talking of the war and its chances. A
company of soldiers shivering in their scanty gray uniforms passed them.

"From Mississippi," said the Secretary; "they arrived only yesterday,
and this, though the south to us, is a cruel north to them. But there
will not be many like these to come."

They parted in the city, and the Secretary did not repeat his threats;
but Prescott knew none the less that he meant them.


CHAPTER XII

A FLIGHT BY TWO


It was about ten by the watch, and a very cold, dark and quiet night,
when Prescott reached the Grayson cottage and paused a moment at the
gate, the dry snow crumbling under his heels. There was no light in the
window, nor could he see any smoke rising from the chimney. The coal
must be approaching the last lump, he thought, and the gold would be
gone soon, too. But there was another and greater necessity than either
of those driving him on, and, opening the gate, he quickly knocked upon
the door. It was low but heavy, a repeated and insistent knock, like the
muffled tattoo of a drum, and at last Miss Grayson answered, opening the
door a scant four inches and staring out with bright eyes.

"Mr. Prescott!" she exclaimed, "it is you! You again! Ah, I have warned
you and for your own good, too! You cannot enter here!"

"But I must come in," he replied; "and it is for my own good, too, as
well as yours and Miss Catherwood's."

She looked at him with searching inquiry.

"Don't you see that I am freezing on your doorstep?" he said
humourously.

He saw her frown plainly by the faint flicker of the firelight, and knew
she did not relish a jest at such a time.

"Let me in and I will tell you everything," he added quickly. "It is an
errand more urgent than any on which I have come before."

She opened the door slowly, belief and unbelief competing in her mind,
and when it was closed again Prescott insisted upon knowing at once if
Miss Catherwood were still in the house.

"Yes, she is here," Miss Grayson replied at last and reluctantly.

"Then I must see her and see her now," said Prescott, as he quietly took
a seat in the chair before her.

"You cannot see her again," said Miss Grayson.

"I do not move from this chair until she comes," said Prescott
resolutely, as he spread his fingers out to the tiny blaze.

Miss Grayson gave him one angry glance; her lips moved as if she would
say something, but changing her mind, she took a chair on the other side
of the fire and her face also bore the cast of resolution.

"It is no use, Miss Grayson," said Prescott. "I am here for the best of
purposes, I assure you, and I will not stir. Please call Miss
Catherwood."

Miss Grayson held out for a minute or two longer, and then, a red spot
in either cheek, she walked into the next room and returned with Lucia.

Prescott knew her step, light as it was, before she came, and his heart
beat a little more heavily. He rose, too, and bowed with deep respect
when she appeared, feeling a strange thrill of pleasure at seeing her
again.

He had wondered in what aspect she would appear, she whose nature seemed
to him so varied and contradictory, and whose face was the index to
these changing phases. She came in quietly, a young girl, pale,
inquiring, yet saying no word; but there was a sparkle in her gaze that
made the blood leap for a moment to Prescott's face.

"Miss Catherwood," he said, "you forbade me to return here, but I have
come nevertheless."

She was still silent, her inquiring look upon him.

"You must leave Richmond to-night!" he said. "There must be no delay."

She made a gesture as if she would call his attention to the frozen
world outside and said:

"I am willing enough to leave Richmond if I knew a way."

"I will find the way--I go with you!"

"That I cannot permit; you shall not risk your future by making such an
attempt with me."

"It will certainly be risked greatly if I do not make the attempt with
you," he replied.

They looked at him in wonder. Prescott saw now, by a sudden intuition,
the course of action that would appeal to them most, and he said:

"It is as much for my sake as it is for yours. That you are here is
known to a man powerful in this Government, and he knows also that I am
aware of your presence. There is to be another search for you and I
shall be forced to lead it. It means my ruin unless you escape before
that search begins."

Then he explained to them as much as he thought necessary, although he
did not give Mr. Sefton's name, and dwelt artfully upon his own peril
rather than upon hers.

Lucia Catherwood neither moved nor spoke as Prescott told the story.
Once there was a strange light in her eyes as she regarded him, but it
was momentary, gone like a flash, and her face remained expressionless.

"But is there a way?" asked Miss Grayson in doubt and alarm.

"I shall find a way," replied Prescott confidently. "Lift the curtain
from the window and look. The night is dark and cold; all who can will
be under roofs, and even the sentinels will hug walls and earthworks.
Now is our time."

"You must go, Lucia," said Miss Grayson decisively.

Miss Catherwood bowed assent and went at once to the next room to
prepare for the journey.

"Will you care for her as if she were your own, your sister?" asked Miss
Grayson, turning appealingly to Prescott.

"As God is my witness," he replied, and the ring in his tone was so deep
and true that she could not doubt it.

"I believe you," said this bravest of old maids, looking him steadfastly
in the eye for a few moments and then following the girl into the next
room.

Prescott sat alone by the fire, staring at three or four coals that
glowed redly on the hearth, and wondering how he should escape with
this girl from Richmond. He had said confidently that he should find a
way and he believed he would, but he knew of none.

They came back presently, the girl wrapped to the eyes in a heavy black
cloak.

"It is Miss Grayson's," she said with a touch of humour. "She has
consented to take my brown one in its place."

"Overshoes?" said Prescott, interrogatively.

Her feet peeped from beneath her dress.

"Two pairs," she replied. "I have on both Charlotte's and my own."

"Gloves?"

She held out her hands enclosed in the thickest mittens.

"You will do," said Prescott; "and now is the time for us to go."

He turned his back while these two women, tried by so many dangers,
wished each other farewell. There were no tears, no vehement
protestations; just a silent, clinging embrace, a few words spoken low,
and then the parting. Prescott's own eyes were moist. There must be
unusual qualities in these two women to inspire so deep an attachment,
so much capacity for sacrifice.

He opened the door an inch or so and, looking out, beheld a city silent
and dark, like a city of the dead.

"Come," he said, and the two went out into the silence and cold
desolation. He glanced back and saw the door yet open a few inches. Then
it closed and the brave old maid was left alone.

The girl shivered at the first touch of the night and Prescott asked
anxiously if she found the cold too great.

"Only for a moment," she replied. "Which way shall we go?"

He started at the question, not yet having chosen a course, and replied
in haste:

"We must reach the Baltimore road; it is not so far to the Northern
pickets, and when we approach them I can leave you."

"And you?" she said, "What is to become of you?"

All save her eyes was hidden by the dark cloak, but she looked up and he
saw there a light like that which had shone when she came forth to meet
him in the house.

"I?" he replied lightly. "Don't worry about me. I shall return to
Richmond and then help my army to fight and beat your army. Really
General Lee couldn't spare me, you know. Come!"

They stole forward, two shadows in the deeper shadow, the dry snow
rustling like paper under their feet. From some far point came the faint
cry of a sentinel, announcing to a sleepy world that all was well, and
after that the silence hung heavily as ever over the city. The cold was
not unpleasant to either of them, muffled as they were in heavy
clothing, for it imparted briskness and vigour to their strong young
bodies, and they went on at a swift pace through the densest part of the
city, into the thinning suburbs and then toward the fields and open
spaces which lay on the nearer side of the earthworks. Not a human being
did they see not a dog barked at them as they passed, scarcely a light
showed in a window; all around them the city lay in a lethargy beneath
its icy covering.

Involuntarily the girl, oppressed by the loneliness which had taken on a
certain weird quality, walked closer to Prescott, and he could faintly
hear her breathing as she fled with him, step for step.

"The Baltimore road lies there," he said, "and yonder are earthworks.
See! Where the faint light is twinkling! that low line is what we have
to pass."

They heard the creaking of wagons and the sound of voices as of men
speaking to horses, and stopped to listen. Then they beheld lights
nearer by on the left.

"Stay here a moment and I'll see what it is," said Prescott.

"Oh, don't leave me!" she cried with a sudden tremour.

"It is only for a moment," he replied, glad to hear that sudden tremour
in her voice.

Turning aside he found close at hand an obscure tavern, and beside it at
least a dozen wagons, the horses hitched as if ready for a journey. He
guessed immediately that these were the wagons of farmers who had been
selling provisions in the city. The owners were inside taking something
to warm them up for the home journey and the horses outside were
stamping their feet with the same purpose.

"Not likely to bother us," was Prescott's unspoken comment as he
returned to the girl who stood motionless in the snow awaiting him. "It
is nothing," he said. "We must go forward now, watch our chance and slip
through the earthworks."

She did not speak, but went on with him, showing an infinite trust that
appealed to every fiber of his being. The chill of the wintry night had
been driven away by vigourous exercise, but its tonic effect remained
with both, and now their courage began to rise as they approached the
first barrier. It seemed to them that they could not fail on such a
night.

"There is an interval yonder between two of the earthworks," said
Prescott. "I'm sure we can pass them."

Silently they approached the opening. The moon glimmered but faintly
across the white snow, and no sign of life came from the earthworks. But
as they drew near a sentinel, gun on shoulder, appeared walking back and
forth, and beyond where his post ended was another soldier, likewise
walking back and forth, gun on shoulder.

"It is evident that our way doesn't lie there," said Prescott, turning
back quickly lest the sentinel should see them and demand an
explanation.

"What shall we do?" she asked, seeming now to trust to him implicitly.

"Why, try another place," he replied lightly. "If at first you don't
succeed, try, try again."

They tried again and failed as before. The sentinels of the Confederacy
everywhere were watchful, despite the wintry night and the little
apparent need of precaution. Yet the two were drawn closer and closer
together by the community of hope and despair, and when at last they
drifted back toward the tavern and the wagons Prescott felt as if he,
too, were seeking to escape from Richmond to join the Army of the North.
He even found it in his heart to condemn the vigilance of his own.

"Captain Prescott," said the girl, as they stood watching the light in
the tavern window, "I insist that you leave me here. I wish to make an
attempt alone. Why should you risk yourself?"

"Even if you passed the fortifications," he replied, "you would perish
in the frozen hills beyond. Do you think I have come so far to turn back
now?"

Staring at the wagons and the stamping horses, he noticed one of the
farmers come out of the tavern. His appearance gave Prescott a happy
inspiration.

"Stay here a moment or two, Miss Catherwood," he said. "I want to talk
to that man."

She obeyed without a word of protest, and he approached the farmer, who
lurched toward one of the wagons. Prescott had marked this suggestive
lurch, and it gave him an idea.

The farmer, heated by many warm drinks, was fumbling with the gear of
his horses when Prescott approached, and to his muddled eyes the
stranger seemed at least a general, looming very stiff and very tall
with his great military cloak drawn threateningly about him.

"What is your name?" asked Prescott sternly.

The severe tone made a deep and proper impression on the intoxicated
gentleman's agricultural mind, so he replied promptly, though with a
stutter:

"Elias Gardner."

"Where are you from, Elias, and what are you doing here?"

The military discipline about Richmond was very strict, and the farmer,
anxious to show his good standing, replied with equal promptness:

"From Wellsville. I've been selling a load of farm truck in Richmond.
Oh, I've got my pass right enough, Colonel."

He took his pass from his pocket and handed it to the man who from the
dignity and severity of his manner might be a general officer. Prescott
looking at it felt a thrill of joy, but there was no change in the
sternness of his tone when he addressed the farmer again.

"Why, this pass," he said, "is made out to Elias Gardner _and wife_. You
said nothing about your wife."

The farmer was somewhat confused, and explained hastily that his wife
was going to stay awhile in Richmond with relatives, while he went home
alone. In three or four days he would be back with another load of
provisions and then he could get her. The face of the stern officer
gradually relaxed and he accused the good Mr. Gardner of taking
advantage of his wife's absence to enjoy himself. Prescott nodded his
head slightly toward the tavern, and the farmer, taking courage from the
jocular contraction of the Colonel's left eye, did not resent the
insinuation. On the contrary, he enjoyed it, feeling that he was a devil
of a fellow, and significantly tapped the left pocket of his coat, which
gave forth a ring as of glass.

"The quality of yours is bad," said Prescott. "Here, try mine; it's like
velvet to the throat, a tonic to the stomach, and it means sweet sleep
to-morrow."

Drawing from his pocket his own well-filled flask, with which from
prudential motives he had provided himself before undertaking his
journey, he handed it to Mr. Gardner of Wellsville and made him drink
deep and long.

When the farmer finished he sighed deeply, and words of appreciation and
gratitude flowed from his tongue.

"Bah, man!" said Prescott, "you cannot drink at all. You do not get the
real taste of it with one little sip like that on such a cold night as
this. Here, drink it down a real drink, this time. Are you a girl to
refuse such liquor?"

The last taunt struck home, and Mr. Gardner of Wellsville, making a
mighty suspiration, drank so long and deep that the world wavered when
he handed the flask back to Prescott, and a most generous fire leaped
up and sparkled in his veins. But when he undertook to step forward the
treacherous earth slid from under his feet, and it was only the arm of
the friendly officer that kept him from falling. He tried to reach his
wagon, but it unkindly moved off into space.

Prescott helped him to the wagon and then into it. "How my head goes
round!" murmured the poor farmer.

"Another taste of this will put you all right," said Prescott, and he
forced the neck of his flask into Elias Gardner's mouth. Elias drank
deeply, either because he wanted to or because he could not help
himself, and closing his eyes dropped off to slumber as peacefully as a
tired child.

Prescott laid Mr. Gardner down in the bed of his own wagon, and then
this chivalrous Confederate officer picked a man's pocket--deliberately
and with malice aforethought. But he did not take much--only a piece of
paper with a little writing on it, which he put in the pocket of his
waistcoat. Moreover, as a sort of compensation he pulled off the man's
overcoat--which was a poor one--and putting it on his own shoulders,
wrapped his heavy military cloak around the prostrate farmer. Then he
stretched him out in a comfortable place in the wagon bed and heaped
empty sacks above him until Elias was as cozy as if he had been in his
own bed at home.

Having placed empty chicken crates on either side of Elias and others
across the top, to form a sort of roof beneath which the man still slept
sweetly, though invisibly, Prescott contemplated his work for a moment
with deep satisfaction. Then he summoned the girl, and the two, mounting
the seat, drove the impatient horses along the well-defined road through
the snow towards the interval between the earthworks.

"It is necessary for me to inform you, Miss Catherwood, that you're not
Miss Catherwood at all," said Prescott.

A faint gleam of humour flickered in her eye.

"And who am I, pray?" she asked.

"You are a much more respectable young woman than that noted Yankee
spy," replied Prescott in a light tone. "You are Mrs. Elias Gardner, the
wife of a most staid and worthy farmer, of strong Southern proclivities,
living twenty miles out on the Baltimore road."

"And who are you?" she asked, the flicker of humour reappearing in her
eye.

"I am Mr. Elias Gardner, your husband, and, as I have just said, a most
honest and worthy man, but, unfortunately, somewhat addicted to the use
of strong liquors, especially on a night as cold as this."

If Prescott's attention had not been demanded then by the horses he
would have seen a rosy glow appear on her face. But it passed in a
moment, and she remained silent.

"Because a poem either be great or even should not exist, because anyone
who has no investment, the best to provide the art, and before any
temptation to seriously take into eight.

Because clearly suggests that people in every some undefined desire,
that what he sees, to imitate, but this demand is not demonstrated that
the strength in us live with what we do come to agreement. Look at the
boys, as always, whenever Seiltänzer in the city have been at all
planks and beams back and reflect and balance to a different stimulus
to return to a similar game drags.

Did you not in the circle of our friends noticed?

Whenever a virtuoso can hear, there are always some of the same
instrument immediately begin to learn.

How many are wrong in this way around!

Glücklich who wrote the false conclusion of his wishes to his forces
will soon be aware, "said Werner resist the conversation was lively,
and William could not move without the arguments with which he
himself had so often tormented, against his friend again.

Werner claimed that it was not reasonable, a talent, which is just some
inclination and skill had because it was never in the greatest perfection
exercise will give up entirely. There are so many empty time it is
completed and after something could spawn, which we and others are
preparing a pleasure.

Our friend, this was quite a different opinion, he immediately fell,
and said with great animation: "How great thou art mistaken, my
dear friend, if you believe that a plant, whose first idea the whole
soul must fill in Interrupted, zusammengegeizten hours can be
produced.

No, the poet must be very, very loved in his life objects. He who
from heaven inwardly on the most delicious gift is always the one
multiplying themselves in the bosom treasure preserved, he must also
undisturbed from the outside, with its treasures in the silent bliss
of living a rich vain of aufgehäuften to produce goods studied.
Look at the people who like them to happiness and pleasure of
racing!

your desires, their effort, their money chasing restlessly, and that?

After what the poet by nature, has received, after the enjoyment
of the world, according to the compassion of its own in others,
according to a harmonious togetherness often incompatible with many
things. beunruhiget What the people in that their terms do not
connect with the things you that the benefit to them under the hands
wegstiehlt that sought too late and that all achievements and gained
on her heart does not have the effect that we desire in the distance
suggests.

Similarly as one God, the fate of the poet on this all hinübergesetzt.
He sees the tangle of passions, and rich families are futile move,
he sees the irresolvable riddle of the misconceptions, which often
only a monosyllable to the development is missing, causing untold
confusion perishable.

He feels the sad and the people who enjoy each with destiny. If the
human world in a melancholy emaciate big loss on his days Hinsch easy or
his pleasure in a suitable opposite fates, so moves the susceptible,
leichtbewegliche soul of the poet as the sun changing from night
to day, and with soft transitions agrees with his harp for joy and
sorrow. aborigines at the bottom of his heart grow this beautiful
flower out of Wisdom, and when the other waking dream and tremendous
performances from all their senses geängstiget, so he lives the
dream of life as a leveling, and the rarer, what happens to him is
both past and future.

And so the poet is also fortunetellers teacher, friend of the gods and
the people. What, wilt thou that he is a poor trade down? He, like a
bird is built around the world to float on high mountain peaks to its
nest and diet of buds and fruit, with a branch the other confounding easy
to take, he should at the same time as the bull pull at the plow, as the
dog is accustomed to a track or maybe even on the chain closed a
Meierhof by his barking secure?

"Werner was how to think can be listened with astonishment. "If
only the people," he dropped him with a "how the birds would be made and,
while they spin and weave, hold days in resistant fated benefit
could spend, if they only even with the arrival of winter so easily in
remote areas will only push the shortage and to avoid before the
frost secure!

"" So the poet lived in times where the Venerable was detected, "William
cried out," and so they should always live. Enough in their innermost
equipped, they had little outside of the gift of beautiful feelings,
beautiful pictures in sweet man to cling to each subject words and
melodies tell always been fascinated by the world and was gifted
to a rich inheritance.

At the courts of kings, at the tables of the rich, before the doors
of the love you listened to them by the ear and the soul for
everything else closed, how rapturous seligpreist and is silent,
when from the bushes, through which one converts , the voice of the
nightingale vastly touching hervordringt!

They found a guest-free world, and their seemingly low-key state
only increased the more.

The hero listened to their songs, and the overcomers of the world
paid homage a poet, because he felt that without his tremendous
life just like a wind storm would be passing, and the lovers would
be his desire and enjoyment as a thousand times, and so harmonious
feeling, as it the soulful lip understood to describe, and even the
rich were his possessions, his idols, not with my own eyes so
precious, when they shine on the value of all sentient mind and
elevating illuminated appeared.

Yes, who, if you want, God formed us to be collected, they
herniedergebracht to us, as the poet?

"" My friend, "Werner returned after some thinking," I have often regretted
that you have, what You feel so buoyant, with power to banish your soul
struts.

I would have to me very wrong, if you're not doing better, to give
yourself some, as you navigate through the contradictions of a
renunciation aufzureiben so hard and you with an innocent pleasure
to enjoy all the rest to withdraw. "" May I confess to you's, my
friend "returned the other," and you will not fool me, when I confess
to you that those images are still pursuing me, I sosehr they flee,
and that if I examine my heart, all the early wishes finds still
solid than usual is liable?

But what is currently left me unhappy? Ah, I who would have predicted that
the arms of my mind as soon to be shattered, with whom I took to
infinity and with whom I am certainly a big hoped to include, who
to me would have predicted, would put me to despair.

And yet now that the court was given about me, now that I've lost, instead
of a deity to me, my wishes hinüberführen should be, what remains
for me but to me the bitterest pain to leave?

O my brother, "he continued," I do not deny it was me in my secret Kloben
attacks in which a knitting head is attached; hovers dangerously
hoping the adventurer in the air, breaking the iron, and he is shattered
at the foot his wishes. It is also now for me no consolation, no hope!
I will, "he cried, as he jumped up," of these unfortunate papers
übriglassen none. "He again took a few magazines, it tore them up and
threw them into the fire.

Werner wanted to dissuade him but in vain." Let me! "cried Wilhelm," what
are these wretched leaves? For me they are not level yet more encouragement.
Should they be left to me until the end of my life to torment? Should
they perhaps even the world to ridicule serve, rather than pity
and showers to excite?

Woe on me and on my fate! Now only I understand the complaints of
the poet, the necessity of gewordnen Sad. How long did I sign up for
indestructible, for unverwundlich, and oh! now I see that an
earlier deep shame not auswachsen themselves can not restore, I
feel that I am with him must take to the grave.

No, no day of life, the pain of my soft, the last still kills me,
and her memory will stay with me, with me live and die, the memories of
the undignified - oh, my friend!

if I should speak from the heart - certainly not the whole undignified!
Their status, their fates, they have a thousand excuses for me. I have
been cruel to, you have me in your cold, ruthless in your hardness
inaugurated, my shattered sense captured and prevented me, for them and
for me to do what both of us, I was guilty. Who knows in what condition
I've moved them, and gradually falls over me's conscience, in which
despair in which they Hülflosigkeit I left!

Was it not possible that they could be excused?

Was it not possible?

How many misunderstandings can confuse the world, what circumstances may
the biggest mistake forgiveness crave! - How often I think they,
in the silence for sitting on their elbows Having .-- "That is," she says,
"the fidelity , love, me zuschwur! With this rough blow to the beautiful
life termination, which joined us! " - He broke into a stream of
tears, as he is with the face on the table and threw the papers
on surviving wetted.

Werner stood in the greatest embarrassment here. He had this rapid blaze
of passion is not suspected. Etlichemal he wanted his friends in the
speech fall etlichemal steer the conversation elsewhere, in vain! He
resisted the Strome not. Here too, the enduring friendship to their
office. He was the fiercest attack of the pain temporarily, by his silent
presence of a sincere, pure participants had seen the best, and so
they remained this evening; Wilhelm into silent after feeling the pain
and the other was supposed to be scared by the outbreak of a new
passion, he long bemeistert good advice and by coaxing overwhelmed and
eager to have believed.

II Book, 3 Chapter after chapter such relapses Wilhelm mostly used only
the more eager to shops and activities to devote, and it was the best
way, the mazes, which sought to attract him to escape. His good nature,
opposed to strangers is, its lightness, almost all living languages
Correspondence to lead, gave his father and his friends always trade
more hope and comforted them with the disease whose causes are not
known, and on the break, the their plan was interrupted.

We decided for the second departure of William, and we find him on his
horse, the mantle sac behind it, exhilarated by fresh air and exercise,
get closer to the mountains, where he should focus some of orders.

Durchstrich He slowly valleys and mountains with the sensation of the
largest fun. overhang of rocks, rushing water streams, vegetated walls,
deep reasons he saw for the first time here, and yet had his early
dreams of youth in such areas geschwebt. He felt at this sight again
tapers, all endured pain were washed away from his soul, and with
complete serenity, he said that authorities from different poems,
especially from the "Pastor fido", which in these lonely places scharenweis
his memories accruing. Also, he points to some of his own songs, which
he recited a special satisfaction. He enlivened the world that lay
before him, with all the figures of the past, and each step in the
future was important clue him full of strange acts and events.

Several people who sequentially behind him came to him with a
greeting and went over the way into the mountains through steep footpaths,
hurriedly continued, interrupted several times its quiet entertainment,
but without being aware they would have become. finally joined a
talkative companion to him and told the cause of the strong pilgrimage.
"At Hochdorf," he said, "tonight will be a comedy, where, what the
whole neighborhood together." "What!" cried Wilhelm, "in these lonely
mountains, between the impenetrable forests, the dramatic arts and found
a way to get a temple constructed? and I must festivals pilgrimages
to her?" "You will be even more surprised," said the other, "if you hear,
through whom the piece is listed. There is a large factory in the places
that many people eat. The entrepreneur, who, so to speak, of all human
society lives away, his white workers in the winter is not better to
employ than the fact that it causes has to play comedy. He suffers no
tickets amongst them and wished them well otherwise hold of crude
manners.

To bring the long evenings, and today, as the old birthday is, they
give him in honor of a special celebration.

"Wilhelm came to Hochdorf, where he should stay, and increased at the
factory, whose business as a debtor on his list.

When he called his name, cried the astonished old woman said: "Oh, my
Lord, you are the son of good man, whom I thank so much and yet I
owe money?

your father Mr has so much patience with me, that I have a bad guy would
be if I did not hurry and cheerfully paid. They come just at the right
time to to see that I am serious.

"He called his wife of guilt, which was well pleased, the young man to
see, they assured his father that he is equal, and regretted that
it because of the many non-residents the night shelter could.

The business was clear and soon corrected; Wilhelm holds a roll of
gold in his pocket and wished that his other businesses also want
to go so easily.

The hour of the show came up, we expected only the upper forest, which
eventually is concerned, with some hunters and occurred with the
greatest veneration was received.

The company was now led into the theater, what we had set up a
barn, which stood at the garden.

Home theater were not strange taste, frisky and like enough. One of the
painters who worked at the factory, had at the theater in the residence
and had now gehandlangt forest, street and room, admittedly somewhat
crude, made out to.

Farmer; how long were you there?" he
asked.

"Only a day."

"Don't you think it funny, Mr. Farmer, that you should go so easily into
a town that armies of a hundred thousand men have been trying for more
than two years to enter and have failed?"

"Maybe I showed better judgment," Prescott replied, unable to restrain a
gibe.

The Lieutenant laughed.

"Perhaps you are right," he said; "but we'll have Grant soon. Now, Mr.
Gardner, you've been in Richmond, and I've no doubt you used your eyes
while you were there, for you look to me like a keen, observant man. I
suspect that you could tell some interesting things about their
earthworks, forts and so forth."

Prescott held up his hands in mock consternation.

"I ain't no soldier," he replied in his drawling tone. "I wouldn't know
a fort if I saw one, and I never get near such things if I know it."

"Then perhaps Mrs. Gardner took notice," continued the Lieutenant in a
wheedling tone. "Women are always observant."

Miss Catherwood shook her head.

"See here, you two," said the Lieutenant, "if you'll only tell me about
those fortifications I'll pay you more than you got for that load of
produce."

"We don't know anything," said Prescott; "ain't sure there are any
fortifications at all."

"Confound it!" exclaimed the Lieutenant in a vexed tone, "a Northern man
can never get anything out of these Virginia farmers!"

Prescott stared at him and grinned a little.

"Go on!" said the Lieutenant, waving his hand in anger. "There's a camp
of ours a mile farther ahead. They'll stop you, and I only hope they'll
get as much out of you as I have."

Prescott gladly obeyed the command and the Northern horsemen galloped
off, their hoof-beats making little noise in the snow. But as he drove
on he turned his head slightly and watched them until they were out of
sight. When he was sure they were far away he stopped his own horses.

"Will you wait here a moment in the wagon, Miss Catherwood, until I go
to the top of the hill?" he asked.

She nodded, and springing out, Prescott ran to the crest. There looking
over into the valley, he saw the camp of which the Lieutenant had
spoken, a cluster of tents and a ring of smoking fires with horses
tethered beyond, the brief stopping place of perhaps five hundred men,
as Prescott, with a practised eye, could quickly tell.

He saw now the end of the difficulty, but he did not rejoice as he had
hoped.

"Beyond this hill in the valley, and within plain view from the crest,
is the camp of your friends, Miss Catherwood," he said. "Our journey is
over. We need not take the wagon any farther, as it belongs to our
sleeping friend, the farmer, but you can go on now to this Northern
detachment--a raiding party, I presume, but sure to treat you well. I
thank God that the time is not yet when a woman is not safe in the camp
of either North or South. Come!"

She dismounted from the wagon and slowly they walked together to the top
of the hill. Prescott pointed to the valley, where the fires glowed
redly across the snow.

"Here I leave you," he said.

She looked up at him and the glow of the fires below was reflected in
her eyes.

"Shall we ever see each other again?" she asked.

"That I cannot tell," he replied.

She did not go on just yet, lingering there a little.

"Captain Prescott," she asked, "why have you done so much for me?"

"Upon my soul I do not know," he replied.

She looked up in his face again, and he saw the red blood rising in her
cheeks. Borne away by a mighty impulse, he bent over and kissed her, but
she, uttering a little cry, ran down the hill toward the Northern camp.

He watched her until he saw her draw near the fires and men come forward
to meet her. Then he went back to the wagon and drove it into a side
path among some trees, where he exchanged outer clothing again with the
farmer, awakening the amazed man directly afterward from his slumbers.
Prescott offered no explanations, but soothed the honest man's natural
anger with a gold eagle, and, leaving him there, not three miles from
his home, went back on foot.

He slipped easily into Richmond the next night, and before morning was
sleeping soundly in his own bed.


CHAPTER XIV

PRESCOTT'S ORDEAL


Prescott was awakened from his sleep by his mother, who came to him in
suppressed anxiety, telling him that a soldier was in the outer room
with a message demanding his instant presence at headquarters. At once
there flitted through his mind a dream of that long night, now passed,
the flight together, the ride, the warm and luminous presence beside him
and the last sight of her as she passed over the hill to the fires that
burned in the Northern camp. A dream it was, vague and misty as the
darkness through which they had passed, but it left a delight, vague and
misty like itself, that refused to be dispelled by the belief that this
message was from Mr. Sefton, who intended to strike where his armour was
weakest.

With the power of repression inherited from his Puritan mother he hid
from her pleasure and apprehension alike, saying:

"Some garrison duty, mother. You know in such a time of war I can't
expect to live here forever in ease and luxury."

The letter handed to him by the messenger, an impassive Confederate
soldier in butternut gray, was from the commandant of the forces in
Richmond, ordering him to report to Mr. Sefton for instructions. Here
were all his apprehensions justified. The search had been made, the
soldiers had gone to the cottage of Miss Grayson, the girl was not
there, and the Secretary now turned to him, Robert Prescott, as if he
were her custodian, demanding her, or determined to know what he had
done with her. Well, his own position was uncertain, but she at least
was safe--far beyond the lines of Richmond, now with her own people,
and neither the hand of Sefton nor of any other could touch her. That
thought shed a pleasant glow, all the more grateful because it was he
who had helped her. But toward the Secretary he felt only defiance.

As he went forth to obey the summons the city was bright, all white and
silver and gold in its sheet of ice, with a wintry but golden sun above;
but something was missing from Richmond, nevertheless. It suddenly
occurred to him that Miss Grayson must be very lonely in her bleak
little cottage.

He went undisturbed by guards to the Secretary's room--the Confederate
Government was never immediately surrounded with bayonets--and knocked
upon the door. A complete absence of state and formality prevailed.

The Secretary was not alone, and Prescott was not surprised. The
President of the Confederacy himself sat near the window, and just
beyond him was Wood, in a great armchair, looking bored. There were
present, too, General Winder, the commander of the forces in the city,
another General or two and members of the Cabinet.

"An inquisition," thought Prescott. "This disappointed Secretary would
ruin me."

The saving thought occurred to him that if he had known of Miss
Catherwood's presence in Richmond Mr. Sefton also had known of it. The
wily Secretary must have in view some other purpose than to betray him,
when by so doing he would also betray himself. Prescott gathered
courage, and saluting, stood respectfully, though in the attitude of one
who sought no favour.

All the men in the room looked at him, some with admiration of the
strong young figure and the open, manly face, others with inquiry. He
wondered that Wood, a man who belonged essentially to the field of
battle, should be there; but the cavalry leader, for his great
achievements, was high in the esteem of the Confederate Government.

It was the Secretary, Mr. Sefton, who spoke, for the others seemed
involuntarily to leave to him subjects requiring craft and guile--a
tribute or not as one chooses to take it.

"The subject upon which we have called you is not new to us nor to you,"
said the Secretary in expressionless tones. "We revert to the question
of a spy--a woman. It is now known that it was a woman who stole the
important papers from the office of the President. The secret service of
General Winder has learned that she has been in this city all the
while--that is, until the last night or two."

He paused here a few moments as if he would mark the effect of his
words, and his eyes and those of Prescott met. Prescott tried to read
what he saw there--to pierce the subconscious depths, and he felt as if
he perceived the soul of this man--a mighty ambition under a silky
exterior, and a character in which a dual nature struggled. Then his
eyes wandered a moment to Wood. Both he and Sefton were mountaineers in
the beginning, and what a contrast now! But he stood waiting for the
Secretary to proceed.

"It has become known to us," continued the Secretary, "that this
dangerous spy--dangerous because of the example she has set, and because
of the connections that she may have here--has just escaped from the
city. She was concealed in the house of Miss Charlotte Grayson, a
well-known Northern sympathizer--a house which you are now known,
Captain Prescott, to have visited more than once."

Prescott looked again into the Secretary's eyes and a flash of
intelligence passed between them. He read once more in their depths the
desire of this man to torture him--to drag him to the edge of the abyss,
but not to push him over.

"There is a suspicion--or perhaps I ought to say a fear--that you have
given aid and comfort to the enemy, this spy, Captain Prescott," said
the Secretary.

Prescott's eyes flashed with indignant fire.

"I have been wounded five times in the service of the Confederacy," he
replied, "and I have here an arm not fully recovered from the impact of
a Northern bullet." He turned his left arm as he spoke. "If that was
giving aid and comfort to the enemy, then I am guilty."

A murmur of approval arose. He had made an impression.

"It was by my side at Chancellorsville that he received one of his
wounds," said Wood in his peculiar slow, drawling tones.

Prescott shot him a swift and grateful glance.

But the Secretary persisted. He was not to be turned aside, not even by
the great men of the Confederacy who sat in the room about him.

"No one doubts the courage of Captain Prescott," he said, "because that
has been proved too often--you see, Captain, we are familiar with your
record--but even the best of men may become exposed to influences that
cause an unconscious change of motive. I repeat that none of us is
superior to it."

Prescott saw at once the hidden meaning in the words, and despite
himself a flush rose to his face. Perhaps it was true.

The Secretary looked away toward the window, his glance seeming to rest
on the white world of winter outside, across which the yellow streaks of
sunlight fell like a golden tracery. He interlaced his fingers
thoughtfully upon his knees while he waited for an answer. But Prescott
had recovered his self-possession.

"I do not know what you mean," he said. "I am not accustomed, perhaps,
to close and delicate analysis of my own motives, but this I will say,
that I have never knowingly done anything that I thought would cause the
Confederacy harm; while, on the contrary, I have done all I could--so
far as my knowledge went--that would do it good."

As he spoke he glanced away from the Secretary toward the others, and he
thought he saw the shadow of a smile on the face of the President. What
did it mean? He was conscious again of the blood flushing to his face.
It was the President himself who next spoke.

"Do you know where this woman is, Captain Prescott?" he asked.

"No, I do not know where she is," he replied, thankful that the question
had come in such a form.

Wood, the mountaineer, moved impatiently. He was of an impetuous
disposition, untrammeled by rule, and he stood in awe of nobody.

"Gentlemen," he said, "I can't exactly see the drift of all this talk.
I'd as soon believe that any of us would be a traitor as Captain
Prescott, an' I don't think we've got much time to waste on matters like
this. Grant's a-comin'. I tell you, gentlemen, we've got to think of
meetin' him and not of huntin' for a woman spy."

He spoke with emphasis, and again Prescott shot him another swift and
grateful glance.

When the time is now herbeikam that our new friend for this evening
should be separated, they talked before a trip on the morning day.
They wanted to once again to another places, hunters on a neighboring
home, taking her lunch. William said this evening, some of Philine Lobe
what Laertes only briefly and answered recklessly.

The next morning, when they are again a lesson in fencing had
practiced, they went after Philine inn, before which she ordered the
carriage had already start to see.

But how surprised was William, as the coach disappeared, and how much
more, as Philine not at home was encountered. She had so told you, with
a few strangers who had arrived this morning in the car and was with
them, drove them.

Our friend, who in their society a pleasant entertainment had
promised, could not hide his annoyances.

On the other hand, laughed and cried Laertes: "So they like me That looks
very similar to her!

Let us just after the game go home, they may be where she wants, we
want her do not miss our promenade."

When William on this inconsistency of blameworthy conduct continued,
Laertes said: "I can not find inconsistent, if someone stays true to his
character. If they make something or someone promises something, it
happens only under the tacit condition that it also would be convenient,
the intent to execute or to keep their promise. verschenkt you like,
but you must always be ready to give her the gift of play. "" This is
a strange character, "returned William." nothing less than strange, only
that it is not Heuchlerin. I love her so, yes I am her friend, because
they told me the sex of so pure that I hate to have so much cause. It
is to me the real Eva, the Stammutter of the female sex, so are all
those who only want it not say. "Among many conversations in which Laertes
his hatred against the female sex very vividly expressed, but the
cause of which indicate they were come into the forest, in which
Wilhelm very detuned occurred because the remarks of his Laertes
memory of his relationship with Mariana had made alive again.

They found not far from a shady source magnificent old trees Philine
alone on a stone table. She sang them a funny ditty contrary, and
as Laertes asked after their company, she exclaimed: "I have given
them beautiful, and I did the best they had, as it deserved.

Already I sat on their generosity to the test, and because I noticed that
they were the barren Näschern, took me like before, to punish them.
After our arrival they asked the waiter what was to have, with the
tongue of his usual fluency everything was there, and more as there
was hererzählte.

I saw her embarrassment, she looked at each other, stuttered and asked
about the prices, "As long as you remember," I cried out, "the board is
the business of a women's room, let me make sure.

"I started it, a nonsensical Mittagmahl to order, which still by
some messengers from the neighborhood should be fetched.

The waiter, whom I by a few crooked mouths to confidants that he
had helped me finally, and so we have them by the presentation of
a magnificent banquet geängstigt so that they are short and easy
to take a walk in the forest, determined by it is hard to come back.

I had a quarter of an hour on my own hands and I will laugh
laugh whenever I think of the faces. " For tables remembered Laertes
in similar cases, they came into the aisle, funny stories,
misunderstandings and Prellereien to tell.

A young man of their acquaintance from the city came through with
a beech forest geschlichen, sat down with them and praised the
beautiful place.

He made it to the trickling of the source on the movement of
the branches, on the incident light and the singing of the birds
carefully. Philine sang a tune from the cuckoo, which is not the
arrival seemed to relish it recommended soon.

"If I were not only more natural and nature scenes should hear," cried
Philine, when he was away, "there is nothing more unbearable than vorrechnen
the pleasure to let you enjoy. If the weather is nice, you walk, how to
dance is when Requirements.

Who likes but just a moment on the music, who think to the beautiful
weather? The dancers interested in us, not the violin, and a pair
of beautiful black eyes, does a pair of blue eyes to do well. As opposed
to springs and wells and old, rotten Linden! " They saw, they said,
Wilhelm, who sat opposite her, with a look into the eyes, which
he could not resist, at least up to the door ahead of his heart.

"You are right," he returned with some embarrassment, " Man to man is
the most interesting and perhaps it should be quite alone
interested.

Everything else that surrounds us, is only element in which we live, or
tool, which we operate. The more we are staying, the more we to remember
and to take part, the weaker is the feeling of our own values and
feelings of society.

The people who have a high value on gardens, buildings, clothes,
jewelry or any property set, are less sociable and complaisant, they
lose the people from the eyes, what to enjoy and to gather only a
very few succeed. Sehn we not also to the theater? A good actor makes
us be a miserable, unseemly decoration forget, then against the best
theater for the lack of good actors, a fortiori makes palpable.
"Desserts Philine sat in the shaded high grass. Your two friends had
their flowers in quantity herbeischaffen. They walked a full circle
and put it on, it looked incredibly irritating from. The flowers were
to be another way, they also wove by the two men sat next to her.

When he was under all sorts of jokes and innuendo was finished, she pushed
him Wilhelmer with the greatest charm to the head, and moved him
more than once otherwise, until it seemed right to sit.

"And I will, as it seems empty," said Laertes. "No way," returned
Philine.

"You should not route you complain."

She took off her ring from the head, and placed him on Laertes. "If
we were rivals," he said, "we would argue very strongly to what
both of you on MFN."

As backwards her right gates, "returned she, turning towards him
and hinüberbog his mouth to kiss enough, but once umwendete, her
arm wrapped around Wilhelmer and a lively kiss on his lips pressed.

"Which is best?" she asked teasingly. "miracle!" cried Laertes. "It seems
as if such a thing never could wormwood taste."

"So little," said Philine, "than any gift that someone without envy and
Eigensinn enjoy.

Now I would have," she exclaimed, "still want a hour to dance, and then
we have to probably return to see our jumpers. "We went to the house and
found daselbst music. Philine, which was a good dancer, picked its two
shareholders.

Wilhelm was not clumsy, but he missed it in an artificial exercise. His
two friends were in front of him to teach.

It is late.

The tightrope walker Arts already had begun to produce.

On the square, had introduced many viewers, but it was our friends,
when she exits, a curious crowd, a large number of people after
the gates of the inn, in which William was entered, had drawn.

Wilhelm jumped over to see what it was, and he saw with horror as
he pushed through the people, the Lord of the Seiltänzergesellschaft
of the interesting child at the hair out of the house had tried to
haul with a whip handle relentlessly on the small body losschlug.

Wilhelm drove like a bolt of lightning to the man and took him in the
chest. "Let the baby go!" he cried like a frenzied, "Or one of us left
here on the spot."

He also grabbed the guy with a violence that is only the wrath of
the question, in the throat, that it believed to smother the baby and
letting go against the aggressor to defend examined.

Some people involved with the child felt pity, but the dispute had
not dared to start, the tightrope walker immediately fell into the
arms, disarmed him and threatened him with a lot of swear words.

This, which is now only on the arms of his mouth reduces saw terrible began
to threaten and curse: the lazy, useless creature would not do their
duty, they refused, the egg dance to dance, which he had promised the
Publiko he they wanted to kill, and it should not hinder him. He sought
to loszumachen to the child, among the crowd verkrochen had kept. Wilhelm
held him back and cried: "Thou shalt not this creature rather not
see or touch you in court to give an account where you've stolen
it, I will drive you to the extreme; thou shalt not escape me."

This speech, which Wilhelm in the heat, without thought and intent, of a
dark feeling, or, if you will, from inspiration had brought the angry
people at a time to rest. He cried: "What did I do with the useless
creature creation!

Pay me what her dress cost me, and you may retain them and we want this
evening, this can be done. "He hurried to the broken idea to
continue and the restlessness of the audience through some important
tricks to satisfy.

Wilhelm looked at now, because it had become dormant after the
child, but it never took place.

Some wanted it on the floor, others on the roofs of neighboring
houses have seen.

After it had searched everywhere, you had to calm down and wait, if
it does not itself herbeikommen wanted. Indes was Narziß come home, what
about the fate of Wilhelm and the origin of the child inquired.

This did nothing about it, because it was not long in the society, on the
other hand, told with great ease, and perhaps his own sense fates.
As Wilhelm him to the great applause of luck wish, which he had to enjoy,
said he was very indifferent about it. "We are usual," he said, "that
you have us laughing our arts and admired, but we are by the
extraordinary applause nothing better.

The entrepreneur pays us and likes to see how he zurechtekömmt. "He
pointed to leave and wanted to remove a hurry. When asked where he was
so fast hinwolle, the young man smiled and confessed that his character
and his talents came to a solid applause than that of the audience was
great. He had by some woman embassy rooms that are very eager
demanded to know him more closely, and he fear that the visits
which he had off, little before midnight to be ready.

He continued, with the greatest sincerity to tell his adventures, and had
the names, roads and houses displayed when William is not such an
indiscretion is rejected and would have dismissed him politely. Landrinetten
Laertes had nevertheless maintained and assured that it was totally worthy
of a woman to be and to remain.

Now, the sub-plot with the Entrepreneur of the child, which our
friends for thirty thalers was left against which the schwarzbärtige,
violent Italians abtrat his claim entirely, the origin of the child but
nothing else wanted to confess, that as such he after the death of
his brother, the man because of his extraordinary skill mentioned the
great devil, had taken to himself. The other morning we were mostly with
the prospect child. durchkroch forgive you all angles of the house and
the neighborhood, it was gone, and we feared it would be a water jump
or are otherwise suffering have appreciated. Philine stimuli unrest could
not derive our friend. He brought a sad, contemplative day. Even in the
evening, as Springer and dancers of all its forces aufboten
to to the Publiko the best to recommend that his mind could not
be allayed and exhilarated.

The inflow from neighboring towns had the extraordinary number of
people increased, and thus also of the rolling snowball of applause
to an enormous size. The jump on the sword and through the barrel with
soil paper made a big sensation. The strong man was the general
horror, horror and amazement, he dealt with by the head and feet on a
pair of chairs auseinandergeschobene put on his body hohlschwebenden
lift an anvil and at the same of a few brave journeymen blacksmiths
forge a horseshoe ready. It was also known as Hercules' strength, as a
number of men, on the shoulders of a first series of standing, again
women and young men to bear, so that last is a vibrant pyramid whose
tip a child on the head asked, as a button and a weather vane
adorns, in these areas have never been seen and ends worthy of the
whole spectacle.

Landrinette Narcissus and settled in Tragsesseln on the shoulders of
the other by the elegant streets of the city of joy with loud
cries of the people wear. You threw them ribbons, flower bouquets and
silk scarves, and forced them to act in the face. Everyone seemed to
be happy, and they anzusehn of them involves looking to be
appreciated.

"Which actor, writer, whatever, so what would any man is not on the summit
of his wishes to see if he by any noble word or a good deed such
a general impression hervorbrächte? What delicious sensation it would
be if you good, fine, decent human feelings just as quickly by an
electric shock to spread such a delight among the people could get,
as these people by their physical dexterity have done, if the
quantity of the compassion all humanity, if they are with the idea
of happiness and unhappiness, of wisdom and folly, yes the nonsense
and the silliness ignite, and shake it in stock by Inner-free,
vibrant and pure motion could "So said our friend, and since Philine
neither voted nor Laertes seemed such a discourse to continue, he
amused themselves with such considerations favorite when he was up
late at night walking around the city and its ancient desire, the
good, noble, great acting by the versinnlichen to once again with
all the vivacity and of all freedom of a persecuted losgebundenen
imagination.

Book II, Chapter 5 In the fifth chapter the other day, when the tightrope
walker with a big noise was subtracted, was mignon once again and took
this as Wilhelm and Laertes sword exercises on their the Saale continued.
"Where did you put?" Wilhelm asked kindly, "thou hast made us much
concern." The child said nothing and looked at him.

"You are now our" cried Laertes, "we have bought thee" -- - "What did you
pay?" asked the child completely dry. "hundred ducats, transferees
Laertes," if you wiedergibst, you can be free ."--" That is probably
much? "asked the child." Oh, yes , you like you only perform well
."--" I will serve, "she returned. From the moment she noticed on exactly
what the waiter for the two friends had to provide services, and has
suffered another day of not more that He came into the room. She wanted
to do everything themselves and made their stores, although sometimes
slow and unbehülflich, but accurately and with great care.

She is often in a container with water and washed her face with so much
assiduity and ferocity that they have almost the jaws aufrieb until
Laertes teasing by asking questions and learned that they make from
their cheeks all the way to get rid of search and on the zeal,
which they did, the redness, which they had emerged through the
grating, for the most stubborn make-believe.

he
cried.

But neither shot nor shell struck near the lines of the Southern army.
Peace still reigned unbroken. There was another flash of fire, another
cannon shot, and then a third. More followed at regular intervals. They
sounded like a signal or a salute.

"I wonder what it can mean?" said Prescott.

"If you want to find out, ask," said Talbot, and taking his comrade by
the arm, he walked toward a line of Northern sentinels posted in a wood
on their right.

"I've established easy communication," said Talbot; "there's a right
good fellow from Vermont over here at the creek bank. He talks through
his nose, but that don't hurt him. I traded him some whisky for a pouch
of tobacco last night, and he'll tell us what the row is about."

Prescott accepted his suggestion without hesitation. It was common
enough for the pickets on either side to grow friendly both before and
after those terrific but indecisive battles so characteristic of the
Civil War, a habit in which the subordinate officers sometimes shared
while those of a higher rank closed their eyes. It did no military
injury, and contributed somewhat to the smoothness and grace of life.
The thunder of the guns, each coming after its stated interval, echoed
again in their ears. A great cloud of yellowish-brown smoke rose above
the trees. Prescott used his glasses once more, but he was yet unable to
discover the cause of the commotion. Talbot, putting his fingers to his
lips, blew a soft, low but penetrating whistle, like the distant note of
a mocking-bird. A tall, thin man in faded blue, with a straggling beard
on his face and a rifle in his hand, came forward among the trees.

"What do you want, Johnny Reb?" he asked in high and thin but friendly
tones.

"Nothing that will cost you anything, Old Vermont," replied Talbot.

"Wall, spit it out," said the Vermonter. "If I'd been born in your State
I'd commit suicide if anybody found it out. Ain't your State the place
where all they need is more water and better society, just the same as
hell?"

"I remember a friend of mine," said Talbot, "who took a trip once with
four other men. He said they were a gentleman from South Carolina, a man
from Maryland, a fellow from New York, and a damned scoundrel from
Vermont. I think he hit it off just about right."

The Vermonter grinned, his mouth forming a wide chasm across the thin
face. He regarded the Southerner with extreme good nature.

"Say, old Johnny Reb," he asked, "what do you fellows want anyway?"

"We'd like to know when your army is going to retreat, and we have come
over here to ask you," replied Talbot.

The cannon boomed again, its thunder rolling and echoing in the morning
air. The note was deep and solemn and seemed to Prescott to hold a
threat. Its effect upon the Vermonter was remarkable. He straightened
his thin, lean figure until he stood as stiff as a ramrod. Then dropping
his rifle, he raised his hand and gave the cannon an invisible salute.

"This army never retreats again," he said. "You hear me, Johnny Reb,
the Army of the Potomac never goes back again. I know that you have
whipped us more than once, and that you have whipped us bad. I don't
forget Manassas and Fredericksburg and Chancellorsville, but all that's
done past and gone. We didn't have good generals then, and you won't do
it again--never again, I say. We're comin', Johnny Reb, with the biggest
and best army we've had, and we'll just naturally sweep you off the face
of the earth."

The emphasis with which he spoke and his sudden change of manner at the
cannon shot impressed Prescott, coming, too, upon his own feeling that
there was a solemn and ominous note in the sound of the gun.

"What do those shots mean?" he asked. "Are they not a salute for
somebody?"

"Yes," replied the Vermonter, a glow of joy appearing in his eye. "Grant
has come!"

"Ah!"

"He's to command us now," the Vermonter continued, "and you know what
that means. You have got to stand up and take your medicine. You hear me
telling you!"

A sudden thrill of apprehension ran through Prescott's veins. He had
been hearing for a long time of this man Grant and his great deeds in
the West, where no general of the South seemed able to stand before him.
Now he was here in the East among that group of officers yonder, and
there was nothing left for either side but to fight. Grant would permit
no other choice; he was not like the other Northern generals--he would
not find excuses, and in his fancy double and triple the force before
him, but he would drive straight for the heart of his foe.

It was a curious chance, but as the echo of the last gun rolled away
among the trees the skies were darkened by leaden clouds rolling up from
the southwest and the air became somber and heavy. Prescott saw as if in
a vision the mighty battles that were to come and the miles of fallen
scattered through all the wilderness that lay around them.

But Talbot, gifted with a joyous soul that looked not far into the
future, never flinched. He saw the cloud on the face of Prescott and the
glow in the eyes of the Vermonter, but he was stirred by no tumult.

"Never mind," he said calmly. "You've got your Grant and you are welcome
to him, but Marse Bob is back there waiting for him." And he nodded over
his shoulder toward the tent where the lone man had been sitting. His
face as he spoke was lighted by the smile of supreme confidence.

They thanked the man for his news and walked slowly back to their camp,
Prescott thoughtful all the way. He knew now that the crisis had come.

The two great protagonists stood face to face at last.

When Robert announced the arrival of Grant to his Commander-in-Chief a
single flash appeared in the eye of Lee and then the mask settled back
over his face, as blank and expressionless as before.

Then Prescott left the General's tent and walked toward a little house
that stood in the rear of the army, well beyond the range of a hostile
cannon shot. The arrival of Grant, now conceded by North and South alike
to be the ablest general on the Northern side, was spreading with great
swiftness among the soldiers, but these boys, veterans of many fields,
showed little concern; they lived in the present and thought little of
"next week."

Prescott noted, as he had noted so many times before, the motley
appearance of the army, but with involuntary motion he began to
straighten and smooth his own shabby uniform. He was about to enter the
presence of a woman and he was young and so was she.

The house was a cheap and plain structure, such as a farmer in that
sterile region would build for himself; but farmer and family were gone
long since, swept away by the tide of war, and their home was used for
other purposes.

Prescott knocked lightly at the door and Helen Harley opened it.

"Can the Colonel see me?" he asked.

"He will see any one if we let him," she replied.

"Then I am just 'any one'!"

"I did not say that," she replied with a smile.

She stood aside and Prescott entered the room, a bare place, the rude
log walls covered with neither lath nor plaster, yet not wholly lacking
in proof that woman was present. The scanty articles of furniture were
arranged with taste, and against the walls were tacked a few sheets from
last year's New York and London illustrated weeklies. Vincent Harley lay
on a pallet of blankets in the corner, a petulant look on his face.

"I'm glad to see you, Prescott," he said, "and then I'm not, because you
fill my soul with envy. Here I am, tied to these blankets, while you can
walk about and breathe God's air as you will. I wouldn't mind it so much
if I had got that bullet in a big battle, say like Gettysburg, but to be
knocked off one's horse as nice as you please in a beggarly little
skirmish. It's too much, I say."

"You ought to be thankful that the bullet, instead of putting you on the
ground, didn't put you under it," replied Prescott.

"Now, don't you try the pious and thankful dodge on me!" cried Harley.
"Helen does it now and then, but I stop her, even if I have to be
impolite to a lady. I wouldn't mind _your_ feelings at all."

His sister sat down on a camp stool. It was easy to see that she
understood her brother's temper and knew how to receive his outbursts.

"There you are again, Helen," he cried, seeing her look. "A smile like
that indicates a belief in your own superiority. I wish you wouldn't do
it. You hurt my vanity, and you are too good a sister for that."

Prescott laughed.

"I think you are getting well fast, Harley," he said. "You show too much
energy for an invalid."

"I wish the surgeon thought the same," replied Harley, "but that doctor
is feeble-minded; I know he is! Isn't he, Helen?"

"Perhaps he's keeping you here because he doesn't want us to beat the
Yankees too soon," she replied.

"Isn't it true, Prescott, that a man is always appreciated least by his
own family?" he asked.

He spoke as if in jest, but there was a trace of vanity, and Prescott
hesitated for a reply, not wishing to appear in a false light to either
brother or sister.

"Slow praise is worth the most," he replied ambiguously. Harley showed
disappointment. He craved a compliment and he expected it.

While they talked Prescott was watching Helen Harley out of the corner
of his eye. Outside were the wild soldiers and war; here, between these
narrow log walls, he beheld woman and peace. He was seized with a sudden
sick distaste of the war, its endless battles, its terrible slaughter,
and the doubt of what was to come after.

Harley claimed his attention, for he could not bear to be ignored.
Moreover, he was wounded, and with all due deference to his sister, the
visit was to him.

"Does either army mean to move?" he asked.

"I think so; I came to tell you about it," replied Prescott.

Harley at once was full of eagerness. This touched him on his strongest
side. He was a warrior by instinct, and his interest in the affairs of
the army could never be languid.

"Why, what news have you?" he asked quickly.

"Grant has come!"

He uttered an exclamation, but for a little while made no further
comment. Like all the others, he seemed to accept the arrival of the new
Northern leader as the signal for immediate action, and he wished to
think over it.

"Grant," he said presently, "will attack us, and you don't know what it
costs me to be lying here. I must be up and I will. Don't you see what
is coming? Don't you see it, I say?"

"What is it that you see?" asked Prescott.

"Why, General Lee is going to win the greatest victory of the age. He
will beat their biggest army, led by their best General. Why, I see it
now! It will be the tactics of Chancellorsville over again. What a pity
Jackson is gone! But there's Wood. He'll make a circuit with ten
thousand men and hit 'em on the right flank, and at the same time I'll
go around with my cavalry and dig into 'em on the left. The Yankees
won't be dreaming of it, for Bobby Lee will be pounding 'em in front and
they'll have eyes only for him. Won't it be grand, magnificent!"

There was a flash in his eye now and he was no longer irritable or
impatient.

"Isn't war a glorious game?" he said. "Of course it is best not to have
war, but if we must have it, it draws out of a man the best that is in
him, if he's any good at all."

There was a light knock at the door, and Prescott, who was contrasting
brother and sister, noticed their countenances change oddly and in a
manner as different as their characters. Evidently they knew the knock.
She closed her lips tightly and a faint pink tint in her cheeks
deepened. He looked up quickly and the light in his eyes spoke welcome.
"Come in!" he called in a loud voice, but his sister said nothing.

The lady who entered was Mrs. Markham, as crisp as the breath of the
morning. Her dress was fresh and bright in colour, a brilliant note in a
somber camp.

"Oh, Colonel!" she cried, going forward and taking both of Harley's
hands in the warmth of her welcome. "I have been so anxious to see you
again, and I am glad to know that you are getting well."

A pleased smile came over Harley's face and remained there. Here was
one, and above all a woman, who could appreciate him at his true value,
and whom no small drop of jealousy or envy kept from saying so.

"You give me too much credit, Mrs. Markham," he said.

"Not at all, my dear Colonel," she replied vivaciously. "It is not
enough. One who wins laurels on such a terrible field as war has a right
to wear them. Do not all of us remember that great charge of yours just
at the critical moment, and the splendid way in which you covered the
retreat from Gettysburg. You always do your duty, Colonel."

"My brother is not the only man in the army who does his duty," said
Miss Harley, "and there are so many who are always true that he does not
like to be singled out for special praise."

Colonel Harley frowned and Mrs. Markham shot a warning side glance at
Miss Harley. Prescott, keenly watching them both, saw a flash as of
perfect understanding and defiance pass between two pairs of eyes and
then he saw nothing more. Miss Harley was intent upon her work, and Mrs.
Markham, blonde, smiling and innocent, was talking to the Colonel,
saying to him the words that he liked to hear and soothing his wounded
spirit.

Mrs. Markham had just come from Richmond to visit the General, and she
told gaily of events in the Southern capital.

"We are cheerful there, Colonel," she said, "confident that such men as
you will win for us yet. Oh, we hear what is going on. They print news
on wall-paper, but we get it somehow. We have our diversions, too. It
takes a thousand dollars, Confederate money, to buy a decent calico
dress, but sometimes we have the thousand dollars. Besides, we have
taken out all the old spinning-wheels and looms and we've begun to make
our own cloth. We don't think it best that the women should spend all
their time mourning while the men are at the front fighting so bravely."

Mrs. Markham chattered on; whatever might be the misfortunes of the
Confederacy they did not seem to impress her. She was so lively and
cheerful, and so deftly mingled compliments with her gaiety, that
Prescott did not wonder at Harley's obvious attraction, but he was not
sorry to see the frown deepen on the face of the Colonel's sister. The
sound of some soldiers singing a gay chorus reached their ears and he
asked Helen if she would come to the door of the house and see them. She
looked once doubtfully at the other woman, but rose and went with him,
the two who were left behind making no attempt to detain her.

"Too much watching is not good, Helen," said Prescott, reproachfully.
"You are looking quite pale. See how cheerful the camp is! Did you ever
before hear of such soldiers?"

She looked over the tattered army as far as she could see and her eyes
grew wet.

"War is a terrible thing," she replied, "and I think that no cause is
wholly right; but truly it makes one's heart tighten to see such
devotion by ragged and half-starved soldiers, hardly a man of whom is
free from wound or scar of one."

The rolling thunder of a cannon shot came from a point far to the left.

"What is that?" she asked.

"It means probably that the tacit truce is broken, but it is likely that
it is more in the nature of a range-finding shot than anything else. We
are strongly intrenched, and as wise a man as Grant will try to flank us
out of here, before making a general attack. I am sure there will be no
great battle for at least a week."

"And my brother may be well in that time," she said. "I am so anxious to
see him once more in the saddle, where he craves to be and where he
belongs."

There are women who prefer to see the men whom they love kept back by a
wound in order that they might escape a further danger, but not of such
was Helen. Prescott remembered, too, the single glance, like a solitary
signal shot, that had passed between her and Mrs. Markham.

"We are all anxious to see Colonel Harley back in the saddle," he
replied, "and for a good reason. His is one of our best sabers."

Then she asked him to tell her of the army, the nature of the position
it now occupied, the movements they expected, and he replied to her in
detail when he saw how unaffected was her interest. It pleased him that
she should be concerned about these things and should understand them as
he explained their nature; and she, seeing his pleasure, was willing to
play upon it. So talking, they walked farther and farther from the house
and were joined presently by the cheerful Talbot.

"It's good of you to let us see you, Miss Harley," he said. "We are
grateful to your brother for getting wounded so that you had to come and
nurse him; but we are ungrateful because he stays hurt so long that you
can't leave him oftener."

Talbot dispensed a spontaneous gaiety. It was his boast that he could
fall in love with every pretty girl whom he saw without committing
himself to any. "That is, boys," he said, "I can hover on the brink
without ever falling over, and it is the most delightful sensation to
know that you are always in danger and that you will always escape it.
You are a hero without the risk."

He led them away from more sober thoughts, talking much of Richmond and
the life there.

They went back presently to the house and met Mrs. Markham at the door
just as she was leaving.

"The Colonel is so much better," she said sweetly to Miss Harley. "I
think that he enjoys the visits of friends."

"I do not doubt it," replied the girl coldly, and she went into the
room.


CHAPTER XVI

THE GREAT REVIVAL


Two men sat early the next morning in a tent with a pot of coffee and a
breakfast of strips of bacon between them. One was elderly, calm and
grave, and his face was known well to the army; the other was youngish,
slight, dark and also calm, and the soldiers were not familiar with his
face. They were General Lee and Mr. Sefton.

The Secretary had arrived from Richmond just before the dawn with
messages of importance, and none could tell them with more easy grace
than he. He was quite unembarrassed now as he sat in the presence of the
great General, announcing the wishes of the Government--wishes which
lost no weight in the telling, and whether he was speaking or not he
watched the man before him with a stealthy gaze that nothing escaped.

"The wishes of the Cabinet are clear, General Lee," he said, "and I have
been chosen to deliver them to you orally, lest written orders by any
chance should fall into the hands of the enemy."

"And those wishes are?"

"That the war be carried back into the enemy's own country. It is better
that he should feel its ills more heavily than we. You will recall,
General, how terror spread through the North when you invaded
Pennsylvania. Ah, if it had not been for Gettysburg!"

He paused and looked from under lowered eyelashes at the General. There
had been criticism of Lee because of Gettysburg, but he never defended
himself, taking upon his shoulders all the blame that might or might not
be his. Now when Mr. Sefton mentioned the name of Gettysburg in such a
connection his face showed no change. The watchful Secretary could not
see an eyelid quiver.

"Yes, Gettysburg was a great misfortune for us," said the General, in
his usual calm, even voice. "Our troops did wonders there, but they did
not win."

"I scarcely need to add, General," said the Secretary, "that the
confidence of the Government in you is still unlimited."

Then making deferential excuses, Mr. Sefton left the tent and Lee
followed his retreating figure with a look of antipathy.

The Secretary wandered through the camp, watching everything. He had
that most valuable of all qualities, the ability to read the minds of
men, and now he set himself to the discovery of what these simple
soldiers, the cannon food, were thinking. He did it, too, without
attracting any attention to himself, by a deft question here, a
suggestion there, and then more questions, always indirect, but leading
in some fashion to the point. Curiously, but truly, his suggestions were
not optimistic, and after he talked with a group of soldiers and passed
on the effect that he left was depressing. He, too, looked across toward
the Northern lines, and, civilian though he was, he knew that their
tremendous infolding curve was more than twice as great as that forming
the lines of the South. A singular light appeared in the Secretary's
eyes as he noticed this, but he made no verbal comment, not even to
himself.

The Secretary's steps led straight toward the house in which the wounded
Colonel Harley lay, and when the voice bidding him to enter in response
to his knock was feminine, he smiled slightly, entered with light step,
and bowed with all the old school's courteous grace over the hand of
Helen Harley.

"There are some women, Miss Harley," he said, "who do not fear war and
war's alarms."

"Some, Mr. Sefton!" she replied. "There are many--in the South, I
know--and there must be as many in the North."

"It is your generous heart that speaks," he said, and then he turned to
Colonel Harley, who was claiming the attention of an old acquaintance.

The two men shook hands with great warmth. Here was one who received the
Secretary without reserve. Miss Harley, watching, saw how her brother
hung upon the words of this accomplished man of the world; how he
listened with a pleased air to his praise and how he saw in the
Secretary a great man and a friend.

He asked Helen presently if she would not walk with him a little in the
camp and her brother seconded the idea. He was not intentionally
selfish, and he loved his sister.

"She sits here all the time nursing me," he said, "when I'm almost well,
and she needs the fresh air. Take her out, Mr. Sefton, and I'll thank
you if she doesn't."

But she was willing to go. She was young; red blood flowed in her veins;
she wished to be happy; and the world, despite this black cloud of war
which hung over her part of it, was curious and interesting. She was not
fond of close rooms and sick beds, so with a certain relief she walked
forth by the side of the Secretary.

It was another of those beautiful days in May which clothe the Virginia
earth in a gauze of spun silver. Nature was blooming afresh, and peace,
disturbed by the vain battle of the night before, had returned to the
armies.

"It seems to me a most extraordinary thing to behold these two armies
face to face and yet doing nothing," said Helen.

"Wars consist of much more than battles," replied the Secretary.

"I am learning that," she said.

She looked about her with eager interest, custom not dimming to her the
strange sights of an army in camp and on the eve of a great conflict.
Nothing was like what she imagined it would be. The soldiers seemed to
have no fear of death; in fact, nothing, if they could be judged by
their actions, was further from their thoughts; they were gay rather
than sad, and apparently were enjoying life with an indifference to
circumstances that was amazing.

They were joined presently by Prescott, who thought it no part of his
cue to avoid the Secretary. Mr. Sefton received him with easy courtesy,
and the three strolled on together.

The Secretary asked the news of the camp, and Prescott replied that the
Reverend Doctor Warren, a favourite minister, was about to preach to the
soldiers.

"He is worth hearing," said Prescott. "Doctor Warren is no ordinary man,
and this is Sunday, you know."

This army, like other armies, included many wild and lawless men who
cherished in their hearts neither the fear of God nor the fear of man;
but the South was religious, and if the battle or march did not forbid,
Sunday was observed with the rites of the church. The great Jackson, so
eager for the combat on other days, would not fight on Sunday if it
could be helped.

The crowd was gathering already to hear the minister, who would address
them from a rude little platform built in the centre of a glade.

The day was so calm, so full of the May bloom that Helen felt its peace
steal over her, and for the moment there was no war; this was not an
army, but just a great camp-meeting in the woods, such as the South
often had and still has.

The soldiers were gathered already to the number of many thousands, some
sitting on stumps and logs and others lying on the ground. All were
quiet, inspired with respect for the man and his cloth.

"Let us sit here and listen," said Prescott, and the three, sitting on a
convenient log, waited.

Doctor Warren, for he was an M.A. and a Ph.D. of a great American
university and had taken degrees at another in Germany, ascended his
rude forest pulpit. He was then about forty years of age; tall, thin,
with straight black hair, slightly long, and with angular but
intellectual features.

"A good man," thought Helen, and she was deeply impressed by his air of
authority and the respect that he so evidently inspired.

He spoke to them as to soldiers of the cross, and he made his appeal
directly to their hearts and minds, never to their passions. He did not
inquire into the causes of the conflict in which they were engaged, he
had no criticism for the men on the other side; he seemed rather to
include them in his address. He said it was a great war, marked by many
terrible battles as it would be marked by many more, and he besought
them so to bear themselves that whatever the issue none could say that
he had not done his duty as he saw it. And whether they fell in battle
or not, that would be the great comfort to those who were at home
awaiting their return.

Prescott noticed many general officers in the crowd listening as
attentively as the soldiers. All sounds in the camp had died and the
speaker's clear voice rose now and penetrated far through the forest.
The open air, the woods, the cannon at rest clothed the scene with a
solemnity that no cathedral could have imparted. The same peace enfolded
the Northern army, and it required but little fancy to think that the
soldiers there were listening, too. It seemed at the moment an easy and
natural thing for them both to lay down their arms and go home.

The minister talked, too, of home, a place that few of those who heard
him had seen in two years or more, but he spoke of it not to enfeeble
them, rather to call another influence to their aid in this struggle of
valour and endurance. Prescott saw tears rise more than once in the eyes
of hardened soldiers, and he became conscious again of the power of
oratory over the Southern people. Without that they ausstreckten her arms
and touched with her lips that are found, they were with the feeling
of great warmth and peace among the long list of travelers as alone
in their bedrooms and close associates.

Never was there and Ilse Okuro a after sunset, when they awoke from the
day sleeping, other things than welcome to say. Ilse leaned in
her long white evening dress on the ship's railing, Okuro beside her
in a black evening suit. He told her, her neck is narrow like the
African young moon. And they said that they love his hands, a
ring that never bear the ankle were fine and strong as the strong spring
elastic Poznan bird wings. And they saw both the electrical circuits
in white shining sea creatures to the same metallic Kinderkreiseln
on the waves danced along. Then the mirror image of the moon in the
water below, the uphill and downhill rolling ship, the hiss of champagne
Kiel waves and the crackling of the electric water full foam
tagheller clouds made the two, the longer they leaned over the
railing at the world upside down.

And they were both again in the Krausen space gear in the mirror and sword
marine night life on their two feet to cope if they are hidden behind
a lifeboat, or behind a cabin door, put their arms around each other,
and An Wang cheek, her blood could knock together. Then moved on the
fourth day at the end of the Red Sea a powerful, dark brown, parched
mountain up to his feet long, red roofs, the barracks, the fortress of
Aden.

This mountain was like the posts of the door in the Indian Ocean, the
green and yellow evening sky remained sea and the narrow boats with
naked Somalinegern the steamer outside Aden like a herd of monkeys
umwimmelt had stayed back, and back were the countries , where the
crescent reigned, and the gray rocks Arabian coast to the white minaret
in the afternoon the same white flag poles had stood, and behind
it is the country full harems and women dreamed.

All of that went to the west in the sky peacefully ölgelben under, and
on the sea surface straffgespannten was mainly in the east and Ilse Okuro
still invisible, but the hour approaching Indian empire, where they
should go now. With the expanse of the Indian Ocean was also again the
width of the thoughts about Ilse and Okuro. The heat, the flames
with her in the Red Sea all the human body to its media had lost
in strength, and people were once again independent and thought
back to their own thoughts.

One evening ILSES grandmother sat alone at the end of the promenade deck.
Large constellations of non-South rose from the sea depth and migrated
over the masts of the vessel continues. Nearby the Dame Kutsuma just sat
and read. The ship was like a large Indian drum, because the waves drummed
their marches, and his career was always an exchange of enthusiasm
when it is in the stars lifted from disappointment when it again
fell into the emptiness.

"How many thoughts like to hang the stars, "thought the old lady." How
many thousands of sea at night, are here with open eyes among the
stars on Migratory ships sat. Each star is like a silkworm eingepuppte,
from the thoughts you like silk threads abspinnt. "" You see, Mr.
Kutsuma, "said the old lady," You always say that my hair was as white
as the snow on the evening Hirayama at Lake Biwa in your native Japan.
And so true my hair never gets dark, so true, I think that Ilse for her
heart no better man could find a Okuro. But that is not to say that
in Japan Okuro not a better woman than finding and without Ilse Ilse
could be very happy. "Kutsuma had a map on his lap, looked up and said:"
I always admire how great the Europeans the world can divide the
countries into flat pieces, the earth in latitudes and longitudes;
Terrestrial bring everything in the Europeans and order numbers.

But they invent a system for their feelings, do not want a system to
recognize the small, short human life, but nothing from other than just
youth, maturity and old age, so has its limitations and not as something
Unlimited, untidy can be. "" But, sir, "broke in the impatient
weißhaarige Dame Kutsuma," feelings can not get into systems.

But the feelings are alive Unlimited! Feeling of love and order and
disorder can also enter: Love is a feeling Hasardnummer, it focuses
on Rouge = = = or =. Noir But there is no secure system, where you at
love feeling okay with yourself, for example. Who loves, wants to
make happy, but life has to prove if he has a profit or has drawn
a blank. "" Where love is eternal happiness, "said the Asiate. "Where a
change occurs, the love was not complete. Your Europeans hopes that the
man his life and serves the woman they believe is higher than Asians
themselves, we require the woman that the man they serve and are
subordinate to him.

And we find this will sort out the love between husband and wife. "" Very
or spoken, "said the old lady. "But now let the snow on the evening
Hirayama speak to you, which means: do you trust the idea that underneath
my white hair emerged.

The Precious in love, that she remains an eternal adventure, and that
neither the safety of Madonnas liable submission of an Asian woman,
even the Olympic glory of a European self-love in a system can bring.

    The love will always be a bit
      wasteful, always an
    excess in the blood of the people, which is
      too much, the finiteness of the blessed
    moment in an eternity of pleasure can turn.

    Wherever there's too much
    between two people missing
      who imagine that they are loved, the
    love will always be a chemical process remain pathetic,
      child and forth quietly in a system can hold.

"The Asian long remained silent and let the stars wander . Then he said,
and folded his map together: "The gods have in Europe you Europeans not
in vain microscopes for your eyes can construct. You can also use your
Liebesaufregung put under a microscope.

    As the frost in euern windows so you can see the lines of
    your love passion.

And you Europeans can speak about things that we Asians remain forever
invisible. "The old lady replied:" You Asians can also, if you want.
Only you are gracious and humble children of your gods, and we are
inquisitive.

We need to eavesdrop on our joys and our pain. Just as our anatomists
found the bloodstream, so we're looking for the circulation of our
pains and pleasures.

"Kutsuma eager speaks:" We have always only from India the cycle
of soul learned to observe.

But the passion of love, we do not value life as investigated and
have not love on the amount asked her how in Europe.

But since I was with you, I understand that the future world, the
love of passion as a world center will recognize.

Not the world peace, not the nirvana, as we always believed in Asia,
not the world of pain and compassion the world, as your passing
Christianity always believed; Passion is the love for anyone who takes
seriously his life, his God, his life and death.

Sun also said yesterday Okuro to me, when we were in Aden at the
Red Sea leaving, he told me he would never again with Ilse opinion
on the dispute, which they as a European of the marriage.

It makes him feel happy with each.

His blood is so satisfied by their blood, that he no longer follows
Lebensgebräuchen life and customs asks her sake that he wants to
be a European in his homeland.

His love is now so big that he meinungslos has become. "Kutsuma waited on
a lady outbreak of joy. And when the young man does not sound as a reply,
he felt einemmal with the silence between himself and the old lady
like an abyss, as if they have an ocean in front of him and backed
his words.

Kutsuma Smiling looking to connect and said, " Why is silent on the
evening Hirayama snow? He, to me earlier so beautiful wide thoughts
were? "Then the old lady sighed:" Oh, how unhappy are the gracious
lovers!

Kindness in love brings unhappiness. Love is never kind, love calls,
abused, raped. From two lovers must be a stronger. The man, the
woman under jochen, yes he can assure her the folly of their
self-glory, if they are still in need.

But he may not be valid meinungslos. Say you want to Okuro!

This was the view of this white hair. And whenever he sees my white
hair, the Japanese with their evening snow from Hirayama vergleichet,
he should be strong, should not be meinungslos Ilse. Just as the
snow on the Hirayama never melt, so his will is of no woman will be to
melt.

Only then does he Ilse happy.

"Kutsuma saw the white head reverently of the old lady, so reverently,
as only a Japanese evening on Lake Biwa in the snow by now? Hirayama. -
Ceylon, with its cloudless blue, shining mountains, the full and
amethyst Moon rocks are, by the wandering boat for a day touched.

Then went the distance, the ship's magnetic further east.

And Ilse dreamed palm forests to the sea, because they knew: rings were
sacred Indian coast with forests, and sacred Indian temples. And all
around the coasts lived peoples who were so good that they sleep an
animal considered sacred, - the sleeping dog of the lowest road,
which is einfiel, in the middle of the busiest cities in the sun,
and to dream.

No kick away the dreaming, because every dream, the dream of a dog, is a
paradise for the moments on the ground decreases. That is also the
sleep of the animals treated with reverence.

No whips crack, only silver bells on the horse buck drive the horses.
About all that she often referred to with aversion. "How strange," said
the two Japanese and two Europeans, "that Europe and Asia coexist on the
same soil is, they belong together are less than earth and moon. Europe
gives his life the adage: Time is money. Asia and respected neither
the time nor the money. It is amazing that a simple ship's propeller,
which is doing nothing, than to turn us from the world of concepts of
time and money in the world of conflicting notions can carry without
it we perish or die first. "" On strangest, "said the old lady,"
is there for me, the white snow, I come from Europe.

I thought I was at the end of my life, and without that I enter into a
new incarnation must rejuvenate and warm here in Asia, my thoughts. If I
am in the mirror can see, I'm surprised that I still have snow on my head
wear. "- The ship was behind India, Penang and Singapore and did happen
in the China Sea. In Singapore, but Ilse was from their Indian
dreams have been torn. There, where the Chinese like the sands of the
seas, where the yellow race, the brown race ousted where Ilse
even yellow people than the yellow Japanese saw during her travels
already like hiking in the blood in their bodies to habit had become
- they attacked a terror and a fear of the future.

The schlitzäugigen people horrified her.

The slit eyes, protruding cheekbones their faces seemed to verkrüppeln.
In the evening, when she with her grandmother from Singapore on
board the ship came back and the sky is full of yellow clouds evening
equal one thousand Chinese yellow faces was she not in her cabin
on her husband .

They rushed into the cabin her grandmother, her face pressed into
the hands of the old lady and sobbed.

    "Child, child, I know it," said
      the old lady. "I had the same
    thought as you today. But let the
      time pass.

Time brings habit, and habit may make you happy again. When the earth
is also absent as an alien planet, we are still with their feet
on the same planet, and we are also with the yellow race good friend.
"" Not me, "said Ilse.

"Look at my red hair, look at my white skin. I did not think that I am
at a whole world of yellow people come. Okuro was me rather than him
alone, a curiosity in Europe. But now he is at me in the flood of yellow
faces, as if he were drowned in the China Sea. Tonight I will not
sleep in his cabin. I will stay with you, grandmother, and at the
next port we flee and return to Europe. It's me, when I went up
to our necks in the yellow clay and choked when I among the people
must remain yellow. "" Come not, child! The habit will make you happy,
"repeated the old lady." Great God, what ödes luck then! Habit is the
luck of the servants, not the rule, as you have always told grandmother.
And now thou givest to thy wisdom, just to comfort me! Recently, you
said, that the love an excess in the blood must have an exuberance.

This is too much yellow in these people never come back to me. "The two
women are suffering embraced each other and sat on the edge of the bed
cabin in the small White room, and sat quietly one hours without stirring,
and both were far away from the ship. Both went through the streets
of Europe, both died before the longing for the homeland, and both new
aufschluchzend as they are, and that was from the ship weitergeschleppt
felt. They marveled at the quiet, the water pressure in the vessel from
the crackling homesick two people not to fall would be placed.
The night came, and Ilse was in the cabin her grandmother, and left
by the old lady in Okuro apologize. What then in the night happened,
one hardly knows which is found in the ship, with accuracy to tell. The
old lady suddenly felt a shock in the middle of the bed from the bed
surface.

       They screamed after Ilse.

All the people on the ship seemed to her to scream. All lights were
extinguished. The ship appeared in the middle of the ocean to lie
quiet. Instead of working taktmäßig machine screw stillness of death
reigned. And when the old lady from a suitcase up, to which they had
fallen, they grasped hands of two men, they moved like a machine
through the darkness, where knee-high water against her shot, and
gurgelndes foaming water, screaming and wind by water, with
Menschenleibern seemed to be filled.

Instead, the ship's stairs she felt human body under her bare feet.
The men's hands and that they highlighted türmende water as levers over
a thousand obstacles, until it fell on a boat deck to another steamer,
like a mountain in the dark moonlit night in addition to the
staggering and setting Ship stood, from which they came.

She knew now Okuros face in the turmoil of saving, Okuro who held
their hands and they fortschleifte and put them on the red carpet of
an enlightened ship hall lay down.

Then both cried simultaneously: "Ilse," and Okuro disappeared. The old
lady looked at half-clothed women and men, as in a Toll House
cried, laughed, the same people who have dogs and monkeys to become
would be met, übereinandersprangen in the ship hall at the long
dining tables crept, barricaded behind chairs, in the eyes zuhielten
continue »Help," cried, but they were rescued, and continued the
names of relatives cried, but they were rescued in the arm.

"Ilse , Ilse, "cried the old lady again and again, as they could
with the name of a person called it.

This from the seawater durchtränkte night hung her dress like a
slow heavy skin around the trembling body.

But they still slipped to the last of the forces of human Knäueln
continued, with the poor to get beat, away from this human skeleton,
which the seconds of the horror of death to the young body into the body
of old had transformed. A few men have become insane next to it by
sailors tied. A few others brought to one of the Glühlichtkronenleuchter
from the ceiling to break, and the fists were dashed with the glass
bulbs and screamed: "We do not want a light, we do not want to see."

A man bit in the arm of a woman. The eyes quollen him from his head, and
the woman laughed and cried: "My dear! My dear! "The blood ran from
her arm to the hall, and the eyes quollen her rapture from the caves.
The old lady crept to a cabin door, which stood wide open.

Da ein wahnsinnig jumped become Malay with two knives in his hands upon
them away into the hall, stung after the women who under the tables
cried, stung after the men, under the chandelier hung, and then knelt
on his back the man that is in the arm of the woman had bitten into it.
The woman laughed still ecstatic than the crazy yellow Malay, the white
back of her husband with the bloody knife edited. New sailors rushed
inside and tore people apart.

And under the door, saw the old lady rescued the wings of a giant
silver windmill, there were the electric lights of the steamer, with its
steep white rays zertrennten the night air. On the ship's railing beside
her, she knows in the blue light of the headlamp, two men, as shown Snow
formed, wrestled with each other. The lady yelled with their last
forces: »Okuro! Kutsuma! Ilse! Ilse! "Then she saw how the one man the
other with the head of the brass railings and then beat the beaten down
and tenderly picked up the call:" Ilse, Ilse ", according to the old
lady umsah, the helpless from the white light forttrug, towards
the old lady.

When the trailing end and towed in the yellow light of the ship appeared
hall, as both men fell dead on the doorstep down. There were Okuro and
Kutsuma. "Ilse," gasped the old woman again and fell next to the two
Japanese fainted out. - The rescued the next day heard that in the moon
mist a collision between her and the ship on which they are now
had taken place and their sinking to the steamer had brought.

Among the drowned, the round from the smooth lake fishing was also
ILSES corpse placed on board the ship. Kutsuma but Okuro held in the
cabin and lied to him and told him, Ilse would be rescued with her
grandmother. Because he feared that his friend once again plunge
into the water would, as he put it in sinking of the ship had tried
when he was not Ilse.

Okuro But the lie was with his friend in disbelief, shook his head and
said, "I know that Ilse is drowned. Your soul I have returned to Europe,
and for me it was already dead before the accident occurred. Ilse lives
no longer, otherwise they would stand before me. Otherwise they would
be the last night in my cabin remained. Ilse not return again. "After
the insane battles and excitement of the accident remained Okuro night
from now on to landing in Japan teilnahmlos. He just looked at his
hands for hours, which Ilse had always loved. - He who weißhaarige
grandmother and his friend sat Kutsuma as murals in silence side
by side on the deck of the ship traveling to Japan, and ILSES name
was not more pronounced.

But Kutsuma was always aufzuspringen ready for the old lady and Okuro
railing back from the ship, because the water bottom magnetic force
seemed to have all the castaways, who are in the accident had lost
night.

Some jumped on the ride suddenly into the water, men who were looking
for their children, women, the men wanted her.

Then one morning released the quiet, dwarfish islands of Japan in
the early mist, the silhouettes of the many curved ancient trees,
the hills with the dainty tiny tiny terraced rice fields.

The two Japanese awoke from the dead silence, and only the weißhaarige
lady remained silent and her eyes tired said: Since Ilse is dead, the
earth for me has become a coffin lid. I would also like to lay in the
coffin. When the ship's bridge in Nagasaki was herabgelassen and bottom
motorboats full of relatives of Japanese travelers to the boat landed,
saw the people who Okuro and expected his young wife, to her surprise,
the famous actor ship descend stairs , with his arm an old lady
leaning weißhaarige.

"Is it Okuro traveled to Germany to get an old lady, who is white as the
snow on the evening Hirayama, to wife to fetch?" asked his astonished
friend. But nobody laughed. - Under Okuros friends was a Japanese
writer, who seems able to remember what the white, old German lady had
made to him, as the wife of the alleged Okuro arm of the young Japanese
to the Japanese land had increased.

This writer wrote a drama, and after months have passed, and the old
grandmother from German friends brought back to Europe had been read
his drama Kutsuma and Okuro before. Kutsuma which women's roles in Japan
played was very enthusiastic about the role of Ilse, Okuro and the
role of the grandmother weißhaarigen play. The writer had the piece
of the "snow on the evening Hirayama« mentioned. The evening was the
presentation, and Okuro wore a wig of white silk floss.

Never had the audience of a Japanese theater, a lively and breathtaking
view loseres game. Only a few murmured, and were surprised that the
young husband wanted to play the drama, which only months ago had
occurred.

And many called him heartless and unfeeling, because he the death of his
young wife was not more serious than a drama.
In the east the dull, heavy cloud of smoke was growing, spreading along
the rim of the horizon, climbing the concave arch and blotting out all
the glory of the sunrise. The heavy roar was like the sullen, steady
grumbling of distant thunder, and the fertile fancy of Harley, though
his eyes saw not, painted all the scene that was going on within the
solemn shades of the Wilderness--the charge, the defense, the shivered
regiments and brigades; the tread of horses, cannon shattered by cannon,
the long stream of wounded to the rear, and the dead, forgotten amid the
rocks and bushes. He had beheld many such scenes and he had been a part
of them. But who was winning now? If he could only lift that veil of the
forest!

Every emotion showed on the face of Harley. Vain, egotistic, and often
selfish, he was a true soldier; his was the military inspiration, and he
longed to be there in the field, riding at the head of his horsemen as
he had ridden so often, and to victory. He thought of Wood, a cavalry
leader greater than himself, doing a double part, and for a moment his
heart was filled with envy. Then he flushed with rage because of the
wounds that tied him there like a baby. What a position for him,
Vincent Harley, the brilliant horseman and leader! He even looked with
wrath upon his sister and Mrs. Markham, two women whom he admired so
much. Their place was not here, nor was his place here with them. He was
eaten with doubt and anxiety. Who was losing, who was winning out there
beyond the veil of the forest where the pall of smoke rose? He struck
the window-sill angrily with his fist.

"I hate this silence and desolation here around us," he exclaimed, "with
all that noise and battle off there where we cannot see! It chills me!"

But the two women said nothing, still sitting with their hands in each
other's and unconscious of it; forgetting now in this meeting of the two
hundred thousand the petty personal feelings that had divided them.

Louder swelled the tumult. It seemed to Helen, oblivious to all else,
that she heard amid the thunder of the cannon other and varying notes.
There was a faint but shrill incessant sound like the hum of millions of
bees flying swiftly, and another, a regular but heavier noise, was
surely the tread of charging horsemen. The battle was rolling a step
nearer to them, and she began to see, low down under the pall of smoke,
flashes of fire like swift strokes of lightning. Then it rolled another
step nearer and its tumult beat heavily and cruelly on the drums of her
ears. Yet the deathly stillness in the scrub oaks around the house
continued. They waved as peacefully as ever in the gentle wind from the
west. It was still a battle heard but not seen.

She would have left the window to cower in the corner with the coloured
woman who served them, but this struggle, of which she could see only
the covering veil, held her appalled. It was misty, intangible, unlike
anything of which she had read or heard, and yet she knew it to be real.
They were in conflict, the North and the South, there in the forest, and
she sat as one in a seat in a theatre who looked toward a curtained
stage.

When she put her free hand once on the window-sill she felt beneath her
fingers the faint, steady trembling of the wood as the vast, insistent
volume of sound beat upon it. The cloud of smoke now spread in a huge,
somber curve across all the east, and the swift flashes of fire were
piercing through it faster and faster. The volume of sound grew more and
more varied, embracing many notes.

"It comes our way," murmured Harley, to himself rather than to the
women.

Helen felt a quiver run through the hand of Mrs. Markham and she looked
at her face. The elder woman was pale, but she was not afraid. She, too,
would not leave the window, held by the same spell.

"Surely it is a good omen!" murmured Harley; "the field of
Chancellorsville, where we struck Hooker down, is in this same
Wilderness."

"But we lost there our right arm--Jackson," said Mrs. Markham.

"True, alas!" said Harley.

The aspect of the day that had begun so bright and clear was changing.
The great pall of smoke in the east gave its character to all the sky.
From the west clouds were rolling up to meet it. The air was growing
close, sultry and hot. The wind ceased to blow. The grass and the new
leaves hung motionless. All around them the forest was still heavy and
somber. The coloured woman in the corner began to cry softly, but from
her chest. They could hear her low note under the roar of the guns, but
no one rebuked her.

"It comes nearer and nearer," murmured Harley.

There was relief, even pleasure in his tone. He had forgotten his sister
and the woman to whom his eyes so often turned. That which concerned him
most in life was passing behind the veil of trees and bushes, and its
sound filled his ears. He had no thought of anything else. It was
widening its sweep, coming nearer to the house where he was tied so
wretchedly by wounds; and he would see it--see who was winning--his own
South he fiercely hoped.

The thoughts of brother and sister at that moment were alike. All the
spirit and fire of the old South flushed in every vein of both. They
were of an old aristocracy, with but two ambitions, the military and the
political, and while they prayed for complete success in the end, they
wanted another great triumph on the field of battle. Gettysburg, that
insuperable bar, was behind them, casting its gloomy memory over the
year between; but this might take its place, atoning for it, wiping it
out. But there was doubt and fear in the heart of each; this was a new
general that the North had, of a different kind from the old--one who
did not turn back at a defeat, but came on again and hammered and
hammered. They repeated to themselves softly the name "Grant." It had to
them a short, harsh, abrupt sound, and it did not grow pleasant with
repetition.

An odour, the mingled reek of smoke, burnt gunpowder, trampled dust and
sweating men, reached them and was offensive to their nostrils. Helen
coughed and then wiped her face with her handkerchief. She was surprised
to find her cheeks damp and cold. Her lips felt harsh and dry as they
touched each other.

The trembling of the house increased, and the dishes from the breakfast
which they had left on the table kept up an incessant soft, jarring
sound. The battle was still spreading; at first a bent bow, then a
semi-circle, the horns of the crescent were now extending as if they
meant to meet about the house, and yet they saw not a man, not a horse,
not a gun; only afar off the swelling canopy of smoke, and the flashes
of light through it, and nearer by the grass and the leaves, now hanging
dull and lifeless.

Harley groaned again and smote the unoffending window-sill with his
hand.

"Why am I here--why am I here," he repeated, "when the greatest battle
of all the world is being fought?"

The clouds of smoke from the cannon and the clouds from the heated and
heavy air continued to gather in both heavens and were now meeting at
the zenith. The skies were dark, obscure and somber. Most trying of all
was the continuous, heavy jarring sound made by the thunder of the
guns. It got upon the nerves, it smote the brain cruelly, and once Helen
clasped her hands over her ears to shut it out, but she could not; the
sullen mutter was still there, no less ominous because its note was
lower.

A sudden tongue of flame shot up in the east above the forest, but
unlike the others did not go out again; it hung there a red spire,
blood-red against the sky, and grew taller and broader.

"The forest burns!" murmured Harley.

"In May?" said Helen.

"What a cannonade it must be to set green trees on fire!" continued
Harley.

The varying and shriller notes heard through the steady roar of the
great guns now grew more numerous and louder; and most persistent among
them was a nasty buzz, inconceivably wicked in its cry.

"The rifles! A hundred thousand of them at least!" murmured Harley, to
whose ear all these sounds were familiar.

New tongues of fire leaped above the trees and remained there, blood-red
against the sky; sparks at first fugitive and detached, then in showers
and millions, began to fly. Columns of vapour and smoke breaking off
from the main cloud floated toward the house and assailed those at the
window until eyes and nostrils tingled. The strange, nauseous odour, the
mingled reek of blood and dust, powder and human sweat grew heavier and
more sickening.

Helen shuddered again and again, but she could not turn away. The whole
look of the forest had now changed to her. She saw it through a red
mist: all the green, the late green of the new spring, was gone. All
things, the trees, the leaves, the grass and the bushes, seemed burnt,
dull and dead.

"Listen!" cried Harley. "Don't you hear that--the beat of horses' feet!
A thousand, five thousand of them! The cavalry are charging! But whose
cavalry?"

His soul was with them. He felt the rush of air past him, the strain of
his leaping horse under him, and then the impact, the wild swirl of
blood and fire and death when foe met foe. Once more he groaned and
struck the window-sill with an angry hand.

Nearer and nearer rolled the battle and louder and shriller grew its
note. The crackle of the rifles became a crash as steady as the thunder
of the great guns, and Helen began to hear, above all the sound of human
voices, cries and shouts of command. Dark figures, perfectly black like
tracery, began to appear against a background of pallid smoke, or ruddy
flame, distorted, shapeless even, and without any method in their
motions. They seemed to Helen to fly back and forth and to leap about as
if shot from springs like jumping-jacks and with as little of life in
them--mere marionettes. The great pit of fire and smoke in which they
fought enclosed them, and to Helen it was only a pit of the damned. For
the moment she had no feeling for either side; they were not fellow
beings to her--they who struggled there amid the flame and the smoke and
the falling trees and the wild screams of the wounded horses.

The coloured woman cowering in the corner continued to cry softly, but
with deep sobs drawn from her chest, and Helen wished that she would
stop, but she could not leave the window to rebuke her even had she the
heart to do so.

The smoke, of a close, heavy, lifeless quality, entered the window and
gathered in the rooms, penetrating everything. The floor and the walls
and the furniture grew sticky and damp, but the three at the window did
not notice it. They had neither eyes nor heart now save for the
tremendous scene passing before them. No thought of personal danger
entered the mind of either woman. No, this was a somber but magnificent
panorama set for them, and they, the spectators, were in their proper
seats. They were detached, apart from the drama which was of another age
and another land, and had no concern with them save as a picture.

Helen could not banish from her mind this panoramic quality of the
battle. She was ashamed of herself; she ought to draw from her heart
sympathy for those who were falling out there, but they were yet to her
beings of another order, and she remained cold--a spectator held by the
appalling character of the drama and not realizing that those who played
the part were human like herself.

"The battle is doubtful," said Harley.

"How do you know?"

"See how it veers to and fro--back and forth and back and forth it goes
again. If either side were winning it would all go one way. Do you know
how long we have been here watching?"

"I have no idea whatever."

He looked at his watch and then pointed upward at the heavens where in
the zenith a film of light appeared through the blur of cloud and smoke.

"There's the sun," he said; "it's noon. We've been sitting here for
hours. The time seems long and again it seems short. Ah, if I only knew
which way fortune inclined! Look how that fire in the forest is
growing!"

Over in the east the red spires and pillars and columns united into one
great sheet of flame that moved and leaped from tree to tree and shot
forth millions of sparks.

"That fire will not reach us," said Harley. "It will pass a half-mile to
the right."

But they felt its breath, far though hot, and again Helen drew her
handkerchief across her burning face. The deadly, sickening odour
increased. A light wind arose, and a fine dust of ashes, borne on its
breath, began to enter the window and sweep in at every possible crevice
and cranny of the old house. It powdered the three at the window and
hung a thin, gray and pallid veil over the floor and the scanty
furniture. The faint jarring of the wood, so monotonous and so
persistent, never ceased. And distinctly through the sounds they heard
the voice of the coloured woman, crying softly from her chest, always
the same, weird, unreal and chilling.

The struggle seemed to the three silent watchers to swing away a little,
the sounds of human voices died, the cries, the commands were heard no
more; but the volume of the battle grew, nevertheless. Harley knew that
new regiments, new brigades, new batteries were coming into action;
that the area of conflict was spreading, covering new fields and holding
the old. He knew by the rising din, ever swelling and beating upon the
ear, by the vast increase in the clouds of smoke, the leaping flashes of
flame and the dust of ashes, now thick and drifting, that two hundred
thousand men were eye to eye in battle amid the gloomy thickets and
shades of the Wilderness, but God alone knew which would win.

Some of the awe that oppressed the two women began to creep over Harley
and to chill the blood in his veins. He had gone through many battles;
he had been with Pickett in that fiery rush up Cemetery Hill in the face
of sixty thousand men and batteries heaped against each other; but there
he was a part of things and all was before him to see and to hear: here
he only sat in the dusk of the smoke and the ashes and the clouds, while
the invisible battle swung to and fro afar. He heard only the beat of
its footsteps as it reeled back and forth, and saw only the mingled
black and fiery mists and vapours of its own making that enclosed it.

The dun clouds were still rolling up from both heavens toward the
zenith, shot now and then with yellow streaks and scarlet gleams.
Sometimes they threw back in a red glare the reflection of the burning
forest, and then again the drifting clouds of smoke and ashes and dust
turned the whole to a solid and dirty brown. It was now more than a
battle to Harley. Within that cloud of smoke and flashing flame the fate
of a nation hung--the South was a nation to him--and before the sun set
the decree might be given. He was filled with woe to be sitting there
looking on at so vast an event. Vain, selfish and superficial, depths in
his nature were touched at last. This was no longer a scene set as at a
theatre, upon which one might fight for the sake of ambition or a
personal glory. Suddenly he sank into insignificance. The fortunes or
the feelings of one man were lost in mightier issues.

"It's coming back!" exclaimed Mrs. Markham.

The battle again approached the old house, the clouds swept up denser
and darker, the tumult of the rifles and the great guns grew louder; the
voices, the cries and the commands were heard again, and the human
figures, distorted and unreal, reappeared against the black or fiery
background. To Helen's mind returned the simile of a huge flaming pit in
which multitudes of little imps struggled and fought. She was yet unable
to invest them with human attributes like her own, and the mystic and
unreal quality in this battle which oppressed her from the first did not
depart.

"It is all around us," said Mrs. Markham.

Helen looked up and saw that her words were true. The battle now made a
complete circuit of the house, though yet distant, and from every point
came the thunder of the cannon and the rifles, the low and almost
rhythmic tread of great armies in mortal struggle, and the rising clouds
of dust, ashes and smoke shot with the rapid flame of the guns, like
incessant sheet-lightning.

The clouds had become so dense that the battle, though nearer, grew
dimmer in many of its aspects; but the distorted and unreal human
figures moved like shadows on a screen and were yet visible, springing
about and crossing and recrossing in an infinite black tracery that the
eye could not follow. But to neither of the three did the thought of
fear yet come. They were still watchers of the arena, from high seats,
and the battle was not to take them in its coils.

The flame, the red light from the guns, grew more vivid, and was so
rapid and incessant that it became a steady glare, illuminating the vast
scene on which the battle was outspread; the black stems of the oaks and
pines, the guns--some wheelless and broken now, the charging lines,
fallen horses scattered in the scrub, all the medley and strain of a
titanic battle.

The sparks flew in vast showers. Bits of charred wood from the burning
forest, caught up by the wind, began to fall on the thin roof of the old
house, and kept up a steady, droning patter. The veil of gray ashes upon
the floor and on the scanty furniture grew thicker. The coloured woman
never ceased for a moment to cry drearily.

"It is still doubtful!" murmured Harley.

His keen, discerning eye began to see a method, an order in all this
huge tumult--signs of a design, and of another design to defeat it--the
human mind seeking to achieve an end. One side was the North and another
the South--but which was his own he could not tell. For the present he
knew not where to place his sympathies, and the fortunes of the battle
were all unknown to him.

He looked again at his watch. Mid-afternoon. Hours and hours had passed
and still the doubtful battle hung on the turning of a hair; but his
study of it, his effort to trace its fortune through all the intricate
maze of smoke and flame, did not cease. He sought to read the purposes
of the two master minds which marshaled their forces against each other,
to evolve order from chaos and to read what was written already.

Suddenly he uttered a low cry. He could detect now the colour of the
uniforms. There on the right was the gray, his own side, and Harley's
soul dropped like lead in water. The gray were yielding slowly, almost
imperceptibly, but nevertheless were yielding. The blue masses were
pouring upon them continually, heavier and heavier, always coming to the
attack.

Harley glanced at the women. They, too, saw as he saw. He read it in the
deathly pallor of their faces, their lips parted and trembling, the
fallen look of their eyes. It was not a mere spectacle now--something to
gaze at appalled, not because of the actors in it, but because of the
spectacle itself. It was beginning now to have a human interest, vital
and terrible--the interest of themselves, their friends and the South to
which they belonged.

Helen suddenly remembered a splendid figure that had ridden away from
her window that morning--the figure of the man who alone had come to bid
her good-by, he who had seemed to her a very god of war himself; and she
knew he must be there in that flaming pit with the other marionettes who
reeled back and forth as the master minds hurled fresh legions anew to
the attack. If not there, one thing alone had happened, and she refused
to think of that, though she shuddered; but she would not picture him
thus. No; he rode triumphant at the head of his famous brigade, sword in
hand, bare and shining, and there was none who could stand before its
edge. It was with pride that she thought of him, and a faint blush crept
over her face, then passed quickly like a mist before sunshine.

The battle shifted again and the faces of the three who watched at the
window reflected the change in a complete and absolute manner. The North
was thrust back, the South gained--a few feet perhaps, but a gain
nevertheless, and joy shone on the faces where pallor and fear had been
before. To the two women this change would be permanent. They could see
no other result. The North would be thrown back farther and farther,
overwhelmed in rout and ruin. They looked forward to it eagerly and in
fancy saw it already. The splendid legions of the South could not be
beaten.

But no such thoughts came to Harley. He felt all the joy of a momentary
triumph, but he knew that the fortune of the battle still hung in doubt.
Strain eye and ear as he would, he could see no decrease in the tumult
nor any decline in the energy of the figures that fought there, an
intricate tracery against the background of red and black. The afternoon
was waning, and his ears had grown so used to the sounds without that he
could hear everything within the house. The low, monotonous crying of
the coloured woman was as distinct as if there were no battle a
half-mile away.

The dense fine ashes crept into their throats and all three coughed
repeatedly, but did not notice it, having no thought for anything save
for what was passing before them. They were powdered with it, face, hair
and shoulders, until it lay over them like a veil, but they did not know
nor care.

The battle suddenly changed again and the South was pressed back anew.
Once more their faces fell, and the hearts of the women, raised to such
heights, sank to the depths. It was coming nearer, too. There was a
fierce hiss, a shrill scream and something went by.

"A shell passed near us then," said Harley, "and there's another. The
battle is swinging close."

Still the element of fear did not enter into the minds of any of the
three, not even into those of the women, although another shell passed
by and then others, all with a sharp, screaming note, full of malignant
ferocity. Then they ceased to come and the battle again hovered in the
distance, growing redder and redder than ever against a black background
as the day darkened and the twilight approached. Its sound now was a
roar and a hum--many varying notes blending into a steady clamour, which
was not without a certain rhythm and music--like the simultaneous
beating of a million mighty bass drums.

"They still press us back," murmured Harley; "the battle is wavering."

With the coming of the twilight the light in the forest of scrub oaks
and pines, the light from so many cannon and rifles, assumed vivid and
unearthly hues, tinged at the edges with a yellow glare and shot through
now and then with blue and purple streaks. Over it hung the dark and
sullen sky.

"It comes our way again," said Harley.

It seemed now to converge upon them from all sides, to contract its
coils like a python, but still the house was untouched, save by the
drifting smoke and ashes. Darker and darker the night came down, a black
cap over all this red struggle, but with its contrast deepening the
vivid colours of the combat that went on below.

Nearer it came, and suddenly some horsemen shot from the flame-cloud and
stood for a moment in a huddled group, as if they knew not which way to
turn. They were outlined vividly against the red battle and their
uniforms were gray. Even Helen could see why they hesitated and doubted.
Riderless horses galloped out of the smoke and, with the curious
attraction that horses have for the battlefield, hovered near, their
empty saddles on their backs.

A groan burst from Harley.

"My God," he cried, "those cavalrymen are going to retreat!"

Then he saw something that struck him with a deeper pang, though he was
silent for the moment. He knew those men. Even at the distance many of
the figures were familiar.

"My own troop!" he gasped. "Who could have thought it?"

Then he added, in sad apology: "They need a leader."

The horsemen were still in doubt, although they seemed to drift backward
and away from the field of battle. A fierce passion lay hold of Harley
and inflamed his brain. He saw his own men retreating when the fate of
the South hung before them. He thought neither of his wounds nor of the
two women beside him, one his sister. It was full of action, but without
a true depiction of characters. It enjoyed and feasted. Thus, the
beginnings of all dramatic art. The man is raw satisfied if he just
does proceed, the educated will feel, and thinking is only the very
educated pleasant. He had the actors here and there like nachgeholfen,
because it lacked little, they could have done much better . In
his quiet reflections bothered him the tobacco steam, always has
been stronger and stronger. The upper forest master had soon after
the beginning of the play his pipe alight, and gradually took
several out this freedom.

Also, the big dogs this terrible Mr appearances. Man, she is locked out,
but they soon found the way to the back door in, ran to the theater,
ran against the actor, and finally joined by jumping over the orchestra
to their Lord, who took first place on the ground had received. As a game
became a sacrifices.

A portrait, which the old groom in his dress presented, stood on
an altar, with curtain rings.

All the actor paid homage to him in humility full positions.

The youngest child came, dressed in white, clear and gave a speech in
verse, so the whole family and even the upper forest master who
is reminded of his children, was moved to tears.

Thus ends the piece, and William could not fail to ascend to the
theater, the actress in the vicinity of IS, due to their game and
commend them on the future of some advice.

The other operations of our friend, after which he and in large and
small mountain towns to perform, not all went as happy as ever so
happily.

Some borrowers asked for postponement, some were rude, some denied.
Following his orders, he should sue some he had to advocate attention,
these instructions, before the court and what the like sullen shops
were even more. Ebensoschlimm gave it to him, if he wanted to honor
erzeigen. Only few people, he found the could teach him some, a few
with whom he is a useful trading relationship was hoping to come.

Now also, unfortunately einfielen rainy days and a trip on horseback in
those areas associated with intolerable symptoms, so he thanked the heavens
when he is flat ground again approached and at the foot of the mountains
in a beautiful and fertile plain, in a gentle stream the sun shines a
cheerful country towns are seeing what he had had no operations, but it
is decided, a few days to linger daselbst to himself and his horses, by
the way very bad had suffered, to give some rest.

II Book, 4 Chapter - 1 The fourth chapter, when he at an inn on the market
abtrat, it was very funny, very lively at least. A large company Seiltänzer,
Springer and jugglers, a strong man with him were with wife and
children and have made them at a public appearance, giving a mischief
on the other.

Soon they fought with the landlords, will soon be himself, and if their
quarrel was unfortunate, as were the remarks of her pleasure quite
unbearable. Undecided whether he should stay or go, he stood at the
gates and saw the workers at the place on the scaffolding aufzuschlagen
began. A girl, the roses and other flowers herumtrug, offered him
her basket, and he bought a beautiful bouquet, which he tied with
another hobby and looked with satisfaction, as the window of a at the
side of the square is another auftat and Guest House is a well-educated
woman in the same room showed. He could say whatever the distance
that a pleasant serenity on her face animated. Their blond hair fell
carelessly around her neck broken, it seemed to be governed by
the strangers around. Some time it was a boy, a Frisierschürze
umgegürtet and a white jacket anhatte from the door of that house, and
went on to Wilhelmer, welcomed him and said: "The Women's Room at the
window lets you ask if you are not a part of the beautiful Flowers ?"--"
want to assign you to stand with all services, "returned Wilhelm,
by the light messenger handed the bouquet while for Fine made a
compliment, which she greeted with a friendly Gegengruß said and retreated
from the window. After thinking about like this adventure, he went
to his room, the stairs, as a young creature entgegensprang him,
his attention is attracted.

A short West Seidner Chen Spanish with slit sleeves, tight dresses
with long leg buffer were indeed the child-like. Long black hair was
in braids and curls around the head wound and crimped. He saw the figure
with astonishment and could not agree with, whether it for a boy or a
girl should explain. But he soon decided for the last and held on as
they passed him, gave him a good day and asked them whom they belong,
even if he could easily see that they are a link in the jumping and
dancing society must be . With a sharp black look, she saw him, they
differ from him losmachte and ran into the kitchen without having
to answer.

When he hinaufkam the stairs, he found wide vestibule on the two men who
are put in fencing, or rather their skill together seemed to try. One
was apparently from the company, which was in the house, the other had
a less rugged look.

Wilhelm saw them and had caused them both to be admired, and as long as
it is not the schwarzbärtige, annoying Streiter left the battlefield,
provided the other with many like Wilhelmer to the Rapier. "If you are a
student," returned this, "in want to take the lesson, I am well
pleased with you some passages to dare. "They fought together, and
although the arrival of strangers far superior, so he was polite enough
to insure that everything arrived on exercise, and Wilhelm also had
really shown that he used from a good and thorough German fencing master
had been. Their entertainment was by the noise stopped, which the
colorful society Forth from the inn to the town from their drama
to be notified and their arts eager to make. followed by a reel of
Entrepreneur on horseback behind him a dancer on a similar skeleton,
which a child is held before, with bands and Flint was probably
herausgeputzt.

Then came the rest of troops on foot, some on their shoulders
children, adventurous positions, easy and convenient dahertrugen under
which the young, schwarzköpfige, dark shape Wilhelms attracted attention
anew. Pagliasso ran under the andringenden quantity funny back and forth
and announced understood very fun, he quickly kissed a girl, a boy
soon pritschte, his label, and gave the nation an insurmountable
desire, to know him more.

In the print ads were the varied arts of society, especially one
Monsieur and Narcissus the Demoiselle Landrinette edited which both
main characters had had the wisdom to turn away from the course to
be included, thus an elegant look and to give more to awaken
curiosity.

While the train was also the beautiful neighbor back to the window, and
Wilhelm had not failed to register with his partner to inquire
after her. That which we call the meantime Laertes want to be offered,
Wilhelm over to her to accompany. "I and the women's room," he said
smiling, "are a few ruins of a society actors that have recently failed
here. The charm of the place has prompted a few times here to stay and
a few collected our cash to eat in peace, However, a friend is
extended, a child coming for you and we are looking for.

"Laertes immediately escorted to his new friend Philine door, where he for
a moment stehenließ to a nearby shop to get the sugar factory. "They
will certainly be thanking me," he said, he came back, "that I know you
like it gave." The Women's Room came to them on a pair of light slippers
with high heels from the bar challenged.

She had a black on a white Mantille Neglige thrown, which, precisely
because it was not quite clean, has a handsome and comfortable
home there, and their short Röckchen had the prettiest feet of the
world to see.

"He let me welcome!"

Wilhelmer called them to, "and take you to express my thanks for
the beautiful flowers."

They took him with one hand into the room by the other with the ostrich
on the chest pressed. When they had settled in and were just indifferent
talks, which it has a delightful twist to knew poured her Laertes
burned almonds in the womb from which they immediately began to nibble.
"Sehn you, what a child this young man is!"

she exclaimed, "it is you want to talk about that I am a great friend
of such Näschereien was, and he is the man can not live without
something delicious to enjoy."

"Let's just gestehn" transferees Laertes, " that we are here, as in
several, mutually happy society.

For example, "he said," there is now a very beautiful day, I dächte, we
lead a walk and deprive our lunch at the mill right ."--" happy
" , Philine said, "we have our new friend make a small change." Laertes
jumped away, because he never went, and William wanted to go home for a
moment, to his hair, the trip still looked confused, in order to leave.
"You can do this!" said she cried her little servant, urged the
Wilhelmer like manner, his coat off, the powder coat them and in
their hair to be present. "One must not waste time so missed," said she,
"you do not know how long we remain together. "The boy, more defiant and
unwilling as clumsy behaved not the best, raufte Wilhelm and as soon
seemed not to want to be ready. Philine referred to him several times
his bad habit, pushed him across impatient and finally chased him out the
door.

Now they even took the effort and curls the hair of our friend with
great ease and delicacy, if they do not like to rush this and soon
appeared, and soon that their work had to be suspended by it could not
be avoided, with his knees on the touching breasts and ostrich and so
close to his lips to make it more than once every temptation that
was a kiss to be pressing.

As Wilhelm powder with a small knife had cleaned his forehead, she
said to him: "Put it on and I remember you there. "It was a knife-like,
the handle of pickled steel showed the kind words:" Does my ". Wilhelm
put it to himself, thanked her and asked for permission to her a small
gift counter failing to do so. Well, it was finished.

Laertes had brought the coach, and now began a very fun ride. Philine
threw every poor, they anbettelte something to stroke out, by giving him
both a lively and friendly word zurief. They had hardly arrived at
the mill and had ordered a meal, as a musical in front of the home itself
had heard.

There were miners, the zither and triangle with a lively and
vibrant voices like different songs vortrugen. It was not long, it had
a lot herbeiströmende a circle around it is closed, and the society
they nodded their applause from the windows. When they seen this attention,
they expanded their circle and seemed to prepare for their most
important pieces. After a pause, a miner with a pickaxe, and pointed out,
however, the other a serious tune played, the act of prospecting before.
It was not long, it took a farmer from the crowd and gave that mime
threatening to understand that he is from here hinwegbegeben should.
The company was also surprised, and knew only the peasant clad in a miner
when he auftat the mouth and in a kind of recitative others scolded,
that he ventured on his farm to handle.

That came not from the text, but began to land the man to teach, that
he had legally, here indicated, and gave him the first notions of
mining.

The farmer, the foreign terminology did not understand, did all sorts
of silly questions, what the viewers who are wiser felt a warm laughter
aufschlugen. The miner was looking to report to him and showed
him the advantage of also flows to him, if the underground treasures of
the country would herausgewühlt. The farmer, the first that was threatened
with beatings, had gradually pacify, and they left each other as good
friends, but especially the miners moved on from this kind
honorabelste disputes.

"We have," Wilhelm said at table, "at this little dialogue, the liveliest
example of how useful all stands the theater could be, how many
benefits the state itself would have to draw when the acts, and
industrial enterprises of the people of their good, worthy of praise
in the side and points to the Theater would, from the state which
they themselves must honor and protect.

Now we are only the ridiculous side of the humans, the comedy writer is
almost gloating just a controller, based on the errors of his fellow
citizens over a watchful eye, and seems to be happy if he can attach
them one. If it is not a pleasant and decent work for a country man,
the natural, reciprocal influence of all the stands to watch and a poet
who would have enough humor in his work to manage?

I am convinced it could in this way some very entertaining, yet useful
and fun pieces to be invented. "" As far as I am, "said Laertes,"
anywhere where I'm herumgeschwärmt, may have noted, is known only to
prohibit, prevent and reject rare but , and, to promote and reward. It
makes everything in the world go, until it is harmful, then angry,
and we propose Dreiner. " "Let the State and the State people
away," said Philine, "I can not, unlike wigs imagine, and a wig,
she may wear it, because who wants to excite in my fingers like a
convulsive motion, I would like it equal to the venerable Lord down,
jump around in the room and laugh at the bald head.

"With a few lively songs, which they very nicely vortrug, Philine cut the
call and drove to a fast return, so that the arts of Acrobat on evenings
to see not wants to miss. Droll to frolic, they continued their
generosity to the poor at home continues, they last, because her
and her traveling companions the money out, a girl her straw hat and an
old woman, her scarf to stroke hinauswarf. Philine companion invited
both to himself in their home, because, as she said, from their windows,
the public spectacle better than the others could see inn. When they
arrived, they found the skeleton and added the background adorned
with hanging carpets.

The momentum boards were already laid, which Schlappseil attached to the
pole and the rope tight on bucks withdrawn. The place was pretty
filled with people and the windows with some kind of audience
reception. Pagliaß prepared the first meeting with some silly, what
the viewers to laugh always maintain the attention and good humor
before.

Some children, whose bodies were the strangest contortions which, soon
attracted admiration, sometimes horror, and Wilhelm was aware of the
deep pity not included, as the child in which he participated at the
first sights, the trouble with some weird positions saw spawn. But soon
the funny Springer excited a lively pleasure, if only singly, then
one after another and finally all together, forward and backward
in the air überschlugen.

A loud clapping and cheer yell from across the Assembly. But now the
attention was on a whole other subject turned. The children, one
after another, had to enter the rope, and the first trainees to enable
them through their exercises, the prolonged drama and difficulty of
art put into the light. There were also some men and woman adult
persons with reasonable skill alone it was not Monsieur Narziß, not yet
Landrinette Demoiselle.
The three women, too, began to help them, doing
the errand upon which they had come, and their service was received
without question and without comment. No one asked another why he was
there; his duty lay plain before him.

It was Lucia Catherwood who took the lead, neither Helen nor Mrs.
Markham disputing her fitness for the place, too apparent to all to be
denied; it was she who never flinched, who, if she spoke at all, spoke
words of cheer, whose strength and courage seemed never to fail.

Thus the hours passed, and the character of the night in the Wilderness
did not change. There was yet compared with the tumult of the day a
heavy, oppressive silence; the smoke and the vapours did not go away,
the heavy atmosphere did not thin, and at intervals the distant thunder
rumbled and the fitful lightning glared over a distorted forest.

The three worked in silence, like those around them, faithful,
undaunted. Mrs. Markham, the cynical and worldly, was strangely changed,
perhaps the most changed of the three; all her affectations were gone,
and she was now only an earnest woman. And while the three worked they
always watched for one man. And this man was not the same with any one
of the three.

It was past midnight and Helen did not know how long she had been upon
the battlefield, working as she did in a kind of a dream, or rather
mist, in which everything was fanciful and unreal, with her head full of
strange sights and unheard sounds, when she saw two men ride side by
side and silently out of the black forest--two figures, one upright,
powerful, the other drooping, with head that swayed slightly from side
to side.

She knew them at once despite the shadows of the trees and the faint
moonlight--and it was what her thoughts had told her would come true.
It had never occurred to her that the one who sat in the saddle so erect
and so powerful could fall; nor had he.

She and Mrs. Markham advanced to meet them. Harley's head swayed
slightly from side to side, and his clothing showed red in the dim
moonlight. Wood held him in the saddle with one hand and guided the two
horses with the other. Both women were white to the lips, but it was
Helen who spoke first.

"I expected you," she said to Wood.

Wood replied that Harley was not hurt save by exhaustion from his
previous wounds. He had come, too, at a critical moment, and his coming
had been worth much to the South. But now he was half unconscious; he
must rest or die. The General spoke in simple words, language that one
would have called dialect, but Helen did not think of those things; his
figure was grander than ever before to her, because, despite the battle,
he had remembered to bring back her brother.

Mrs. Markham was quiet, saying no word, but she went with them to the
house, where Harley was placed on the very bed on which he had slept the
night before. Lucia Catherwood did not turn back, and was left alone on
the field, but she was neither afraid nor lonely. She, too, was looking
for some one--one whom she was in dread lest she find and whom she
wished to find nevertheless. But she had a feeling--how or whence it
came she did not know--that she would find him there. Always while she
helped the others, hour after hour, she looked for him, glancing into
every ravine and hollow, and neglecting no thicket or clump of bushes
that she passed. She believed that she would know him if she saw but the
edge of his coat or his hand.

At last she reached the fringe of the battlefield. The fallen forms were
fewer and the ground less torn by the tramplings of men and horses and
the wheels of guns, though the storm had passed, leaving its track of
ruin. Here, too, were burned spots, the grass still smouldering and
sending up tiny sparks, a tree or two twisted out of shape and
half-consumed by flames; a broken cannon, emblem of destruction, lying
wheelless on the ground. Lucia looked back toward the more populous
field of the fallen and saw there the dim lights still moving, but
decreasing now as the night waned. Low, blurred sounds came to her ears.
As for herself, she stood in the darkness, silvered dimly by a faint
moonlight, a tall, lithe young figure, self-reliant, unafraid.

She began now to search every hollow, to look among the bushes and the
ravines. She had heard from men of his own company that he was missing,
and she would not turn back while he was unfound. It was for this that
she had come, and he would need her.

She was on the farthest rim of the battlefield, where the lights when
she looked back were almost lost, and it seemed to be enclosed wholly by
the darkness and the vapours. No voice came from it, but in the forest
before her were new sounds--a curious tread as of many men together
stepping lightly, the clanging of metal, and now and then a neigh coming
faintly. This, she knew, were the brigades and the batteries seeking
position in the darkness for a new battle; but she was not afraid.

Lucia Catherwood was not thinking then of the Wilderness nor of the vast
tragedy that it held, but of a flight one snowy night from a hostile
capital, a flight that was not unhappy because of true companionship.
Formed amid hard circumstances, hers was not a character that yielded
quickly to sentiment, but when the barriers were broken down she gave
much.

She heard a tread in the brushwood. Some horses, saddles on and bridles
hanging--their riders lost, she well knew how--galloped near her, looked
at her a moment or two with wide eyes, and then passed on. Far to the
right she heard a faint cannon shot. If they were going to fight again,
why not wait until the next day? It could not be done in all this
darkness. A blacker night she had never seen.

She came to a tiny valley, a mere cup in the bleak, red ridges, well set
with rich green grass as if more fertile soil had gathered there, but
all torn and trampled, showing that one of the fiercest eddies of the
battle had centred in this spot. At the very edge lay two horses with
their outstretched necks crossed united in death. In the trampled grass
lay other dark figures which she could not pass without a shudder.

She paused here a moment because it seemed to be growing darker. The low
rumble of thunder from the far western horizon came again, all the more
threatening because of its faintness and distance. The lightning gleamed
a moment and by its quick flash she saw the one she was seeking.

He lay at the far edge of the little valley where the grass had grown
richest and tallest, and he was almost hidden by the long stems. Cried
Carlo, and he felt that he could speak little dismay, "why should I ...
how can you believe ...?« »Why your voice trembles ... eh ... why
...?

« »Geronimo, I assure you, I -" "Eh - I do not believe you! Now you are
laughing ... yes I know that you can laugh now! "The servant cried from
below," Hey, blind man, people 'are here! "All the brothers were mechanically
and exceeded the levels down. Two coaches were also come with a
three gentlemen and another with an old couple. Geronimo sang; Carlo
stood beside him, stunned. What should he do?

The brother does not believe him! How was that possible? -
Geronimo And he looked, with his broken voice sang songs, fearful
of the page. It was him when he saw on these thoughts flee forehead,
which he previously there had never respected. The car had been
continued, but Geronimo sang on. Carlo dared not try to interrupt. He
knew not what he should say he feared that his voice would tremble
again.

Because laughter sounded from above, and Mary cried: "What because still
sing? From me you get nothing but yes! "Geronimo stopped in the middle
of a melody, it sounded as if his voice and the strings also
demolished. Then he went back up the stairs, and Carlo followed him.
In the restaurant, he sat next to him.

What should he do? There was nothing else left to him: he had to once again
attempt to enlighten the brother. "Geronimo," he said, "I swear to you
... but remember, Geronimo, how can you believe that I - "Geronimo
was silent, his eyes seemed dead through the window into the gray
mist hinauszublicken. Carlo spoke further: "Well, he needs not to
have been insane, he will have made a mistake ... yes he is wrong
...

"But he probably felt that he himself did not believe what he said.
Geronimo moved impatiently continued. But Carlo talked on, with sudden
vivacity: "Why should I because - you know it, I eat and drink no
more than you, and if I buy a new skirt, so you know it's ...
Why do I need so much money?

What am I to do with it? "As Geronimo was between his teeth out," do
not lie, I hear, as you lie! "I do not lie, Geronimo, I do not lie,"
said Carlo frightened. "Eh! thou hast it's already done that, yes? Or
will it's only afterwards? Cried Geronimo. "Mary?" "Who since, as Mary?
Eh, you liar, you thief! "And when he no longer wanted by his side sit
at the table, he met with the brother of the elbow into the side.
Carloforte stood. At first he stared at his brother, then he left the
room and fell on the stairs into the yard. He looked with wide open
eyes on the street, before he sank into brownish fog. The rain had
abated. Carlo put his hands in the trouser pockets and walked into the
open. It was him, as if his brother davongejagt him. What was just done
...

He could still not grasp. What kind of liked the man been? He donates a
franc, and says there were twenty! He had some reason to do so but have
had ... And Carlo looked in his memory, if he is not someone somewhere
made the enemy, now another hergeschickt had the opportunity to avenge
... But think back as far as he liked, he had never insulted anyone,
never any serious dispute with someone intended. He had been twenty
years doing nothing else than that he is in courtyards or on road edges
had stood with the hat in his hand ... Was it perhaps a room because
of an evil woman?

...

But how long he had none with what had to be done ... the waitress
at La Rosa had been the last, last spring ... but to him was certainly
no one jealous ...

It was impossible to understand ... What I would love it out there in the
world he did not know, for people ... They came from everywhere ... what
he knew of them? ... For these residents it probably had some sense that
he Geronimo said: I have your brother twenty francs to ... Well ... But
what was now to do ... With one time, it was revealed that he mistrusted
Geronimo ... That he could not bear it! Something he had to do ... And
he hurried back.

When he got back into the restaurant came, Geronimo was on the bench
and stretched the occurrence Carlos seemed not to notice.

Maria brought the two food and drink. They spoke during the meal is not
a word. When Mary the Teller abräumte, Geronimo suddenly laughed and
said to her: "What will you buy for this?" "What for?" "Well, what? A
new skirt or earrings? "" What he wants from me? "She turned to
Carlo. Indes booms below the Court of lastenbeladenen carts, loud voices
sounded up and Maria hurried down. After a few minutes came three
carters, and participated in a table space, the landlord came to them
and welcomed them. They railed about the bad weather. "Tonight, you
will have snow," said one. The second told how he was ten years ago
in mid-August on the yoke eingeschneit and was almost frozen.

Mary sat down to them. Also, the servant came over and inquired about his
parents, who lived down in Bormio. Now came another car with passengers.
Geronimo and Carlo went down Geronimo sang Carlo held the hat out and
the passengers gave their alms. Geronimo seemed quite calm now. He
sometimes asked: 'How much?

"And nodded to the responses Carlos with his head slightly. Indes
Carloforte even tried to summarize his thoughts. But he always had
just the dull feeling that something terrible happened and that he was
completely defenseless. When the brothers return to the levels
hinaufschritten, they heard the confused muddle wagoners above talk and
laugh. The youngest cried Geronimo the opposite: "Sing us but also what
we already pay! - Not true? "He turned to the other. Mary, just with a
bottle of red wine came, said," Begin today with him, he's bad temper.
"Instead of each response was Geronimo heart out into the room and
began to sing.

When he finished, clapping the carters in the hands. "Come here, Carlo!"
Cried one, 'we want you our money in the hat as the people below, "And
he took a small coin and the hand held high, as he wanted them in
the hat fall to him entgegenstreckte Carlo.

Then the blind under the arm of the coachman and said: 'Dear me, dear me!
It could also fall - next! "" What next? "" Eh, now! Between
the legs of Mary!

"Everyone laughed, the innkeeper, and Mary also, just because Carlo
stood motionless. Geronimo had never made such jokes ..." Sit with us,
"cried the carters. "You're a funny guy!" And they moved together in
order to make space Geronimo.

Always loud and confused jumble was the speeches, talked with Geronimo,
louder and funnier than usual, and heard not to drink.

When Maria just came back, he wanted them to rise, said as one of the
carters, laughing: "Do you, perhaps, she is beautiful? It is an old
ugly woman! "But the blind pulled Mary on his lap. "You are all
fools," he said. "Believe it, I need my eyes to see? I also know where
Carlo is now - eh!

- There he stands at the stove, has their hands in their trouser pockets
and laughing. "Everyone looked at Carlo, with an open mouth and leaned
on the stove is really the face twisted into a grin, as his brother
he should not punish lying.

The servant came in, and when the darkness before wagoners in Bormio be
wanted, they had better hurry. They were adopted and are noisy.
The two brothers were once again alone in the restaurant. It was the
hour to which they otherwise tended to sleep sometimes. The entire
inn sank into silence, as always at this time of the first afternoon
hours.

Geronimo, his head on the table, seemed to sleep.

Carlo initially went back and forth, then he seated himself on the bench.
He was very tired. It seemed to him as if he were in a serious
dream uneasy.

He had to think of all sorts, to yesterday, the day before yesterday
and all days that were before, and especially on warm summer days
and white country roads, on which he and his brother used to hike,
and everything was so far and incomprehensible, as if it never again
could be.

In the late afternoons, the post from Tyrol and soon breaks into
small intermediate cars, the same way to the south took.

Still had four brothers in the yard down. When she heraufgingen the
last, the twilight was caught, and the Öllämpchen, from the wooden
ceiling herunterhing, hissed.

Workers were in a nearby quarry were employed and a few hundred
paces below the inn their cabins were added.

Geronimo continued to them; Carlo remained alone at his table.

It was him, took his loneliness as a very long time. He heard how Geronimo
drüben loudly, almost screaming, telling of his childhood: that he is
still very good at all remembered what he with his eyes, people
and things: to the father as he worked on the field, to the small
garden with the ash on the wall, at the low house, which belonged
to them, the two small daughters of the shoemaker, in the vineyard
behind the church, even to his own child's face as he made the
mirror entgegengeblickt had.

How often had it all belongs Carlo. Today, he endured it not. It sounded
different than usual: every word that is Geronimo said, got a new meaning
and seemed to be against him. He slipped out and went back on the road
that now lay completely in the dark. The rain had stopped, the air
was very cold, and the idea seemed Carlo almost tempting to go on,
ever further, deep into the darkness inside, at the end somewhere
in the ditch to lay asleep, to wake no more. - Suddenly he heard
the wheels of a wagon and saw the gleam of light of two lanterns,
which came ever closer.

In the car, the vorüberfuhr, sat two gentlemen. One of them, with a narrow,
upon countless faces drove terrified together as Carlos shape in light
of the lanterns from the darkness hervortauchte.

Carlo, who was stopped, ventilated hat. The car and the lights
disappeared.

Carlo was again in deep darkness. Suddenly he schrak together. The first
time in his life made him fear the darkness. It was him, as he might not
even take a minute longer endure. In a strange kind of mixed in his
dull senses the showers, which he felt for himself, with an excruciating
pity for the blind brother and chasing him home. When he was in the
restaurant came, he saw the two travelers who were previously in he had
driven past, with a bottle of red wine at one table sit and talk to
each other very pressing. They barely looked up when he entered. At
the other tables sat Geronimo as formerly among the workers. "Where you
are stuck because, Carlo?" The landlord told him already at the door.
»Why can you have your brother alone?" "What's that?"

Asked Carlo frightened. "Geronimo traktiert people. I can do so regardless,
but you should think about but that will soon come back worse times.
"Carlo came quickly to his brother and grabbed him by his arms.

"Come," he said. "What do you want? Cried Geronimo." Come to bed, "said
Carlo." Let me, let me! I deserve the money, I can do with my money,
what I want - eh! - All so you can not plug in! You probably think that
he gives me everything! Oh no! I'm a blind man! But there are people
- there are good people who say to me: 'I have your brother, where twenty
francs!'

"The workers laughed at." It is enough, "said Carlo," Come! "And he went
with his brother that almost dragged him up the stairs in bare soil
areas, where they had their camp. On the whole way Geronimo screamed:
"Yes, it is now the day has come, yes, now I know it! Ah, just wait.
Where is it? Where's Mary? Or it's put you in the cash savings? - Eh, I
sing for you, I play guitar, you live by me - and you're a thief!

"He fell on the straw sack out. Gleamed forth from the corridor weak light,
stood over the door to the only Bed and Breakfast of the inn open, and
Maria, the beds for the night's sleep since. Carlo stood before
his brother and saw him lying with the gedunsenen face, with blue
lips, the damp hair at the forehead adhesive, many years older than
he was. And slowly he began to understand.

Not today, the censure of the blind that had long slumbered in him,
and the only reason, perhaps the courage he had missed it out. And
everything done for him Carlo, was in vain, in vain repentance, the
sacrifice in vain all his life. What should he do now? - Should
he still continues day after day, who knows how long it through
the eternal night lead, supervise him, begging for him and no other
reward than suspicion and swear?

If it's brother was a thief, so yes it was the same every stranger
or better than he.

Truly, leave him alone, for ever separated from him, that would be
the wisest. Then had Geronimo's probably wrong to see, because only then
would he know what it means to be betrayed and bestohlen will be lonely
and miserable. And he himself, what should he start? Well, he was not
yet old, when he was alone, he could start some. As a boy at least
he found everywhere in his comment. But while these thoughts went through
his head, his eyes were always on the brother stapled. And he saw
him suddenly to himself, alone on the edge of a road sonnbeglänzten
sit on a rock, with the wide-open white eyes staring at the sky,
and he could not hide, and with his hands across the night, which
always was around him .

And he felt like the blind no one other than the world had him, so he
had no one other than this brother. He understood that the love for this
brother, the entire contents of his life was, and knew for the first
time with complete clarity, only the belief that the blind people that
love him and replied forgiven him everything misery to bear it
patiently. He could not hope to these times with a refrain. He felt
that he is the brother just as necessary as the brother needed him. He
could not, he would not leave him.

He had to endure either the censure or find a means to the blind of his
groundless suspicion to convince ... Yes, if he is somehow a piece
of gold could provide! When the blind man he could say tomorrow morning:
"I've just kept it, so you could not with the workers vertrinkst so you
people do not steal" ... or anything else ... steps converged on
the wooden stairs, the passengers went to sleep.

Suddenly his head durchzuckte the incursion, KNOCKING over, the
strangers true to today's incident and to tell it to the twenty francs
to ask. But he knew well: it was completely hopeless! They would him
the whole story does not even believe. And he remembered now, as frightened
of a pale driven together was when he, Carlo, suddenly in the
darkness before the car was up.

He stretched himself on the straw sack out. It was quite dark in the
room. Now he heard how loud the workers say, and with heavy steps on
the wooden steps hinabgingen. Soon after, both gates were closed. The
servant went again on the stairs and down, then it was very quiet. Carlo
heard only the snoring Geronimos. Soon confused thoughts in his early
dreams. When he awoke, it was still deep darkness around him. He
looked after the place where the window was when he eyes the effort,
he saw there in the middle of a deep impenetrable black gray rectangle.
Geronimo still slept the heavy sleep of drunks. And Carlo thought of
the day, the morning was, and he shivered. He thought of the night after
that day, the day after this night, in the future that lay before
him, and met him before horror of loneliness, which stood before
him.

Why was the evening he was not courageous? Why was he not one of the
stranger and she had gone to the twenty francs asked? Perhaps they
had mercy on him. And yet - perhaps it was good that he had not asked.
Yes, why was it good? ... He sat up suddenly and felt his heart
beating. He knew why it was good: If they had rejected him, he would
have them at any rate remained suspicious - but so ... He stared at
the gray spot, which began to glow dull ...

That what it against his own will, driven by the head, was impossible,
totally impossible ... The side door was locked - and moreover, they
were able to wake up ... Yes, there - the gray shining spot in the
middle of the dark was a new day - - - Carlo stood up, as it would
go there, and touched his forehead with the cold disc. Why was he up?
To create ... To try? ... What then? ... It was impossible - and,
moreover, it was a crime. A crime? What are twenty francs for such
people to the pleasure of one thousand miles to travel far? They would
not even notice that they were missing ... He went to the door and
opened it quietly. Compared to the other, with two steps to achieve
closed. On a nail in the post hung garments.

Carlo drove with your hand over them ... Yes, if people exchanges in their
pocket could, then life would be very easy, it will soon no longer
needed to beg to go ... But the bags were empty. Well, what remained?
Going back into the room, on the straw bag. There was maybe a better
way to give twenty francs - a less dangerous and legal. If he really
always Zentesimi some of the charity zurückbehielte until he collected
twenty francs part, and then the gold coin bought ... But how long could
this take - months, maybe a year. Ah, if only he had the courage! Still,
he stood in the hallway. He looked over to the door ... What was that
for an oblique, vertically from the top fell on the floor?

Was it possible? The door was only similar, not obstructed? ... Why
he was amazed because it?

For months, has not closed the door. Why should they? He recalled:
only three had here this summer, people slept, two boys and crafts once
a tourist, who had injured the foot. The door does not - he now needs
only the courage - yes, and happiness! Courage? The worst thing to
happen to him, is that the two wake up, and since he can still find
an excuse. He lugt through the gap into the room. There is still so
dark, that it is only the outlines of two on the beds caused by can
store characters.

He is listening to: they breathe calmly and evenly. Carlo opens the door
slightly and enters with his bare feet into the room completely
silent.

The two beds are longitudinally along the same wall opposite the window.
In the middle of the room is a table; Carlo creeps up. He runs his
hand over the area and felt a keychain, a pen knife, a small book -
nothing more ... Well of course ... That he could only remember that
they would their money on the table! Ah, now he can again continue
...

And yet, perhaps it just needs a good grip and it is successful ... And
he is approaching the bed next to the door, here in the chair is something
- it feels afterwards - it is a revolver ... Carlo shrugs together ...
Whether he did not prefer to keep? After all, why has this man the
turret ready?

       When he wakes up and notices him ...

But no, he would say yes: There is three clock, Gracious Lord, Aufstehn
... And he makes the turret is. And he creeps deeper into the room.
Here on the other chair in the laundry pieces ... Heaven! that's it
... this is a stock market - it keeps it in his hand ...

At that moment he heard a slight crash.

With a swift movement, he stretches the length of the bed at the foot
out ...

Once this crash - a heavy sigh of relief - a räusper - then silence,
deep silence.

Carlo remains on the ground, the stock market in the hand, and waits.
It comes to nothing.

Dämmer Already, the pale into the room inside. Carlo dares not stand up,
but crawls on the floor next to the door to open wide enough to
pass him, crawls further up on the gear out, and here he has only
slowly, with a deep breath.

He opens the stock market, it is triply divided left and right,
only small pieces of silver.

Carlo will open the middle part, by a valve is closed again, and feels
three twentieths franc pieces. For a moment he thinks it, two of
them to take, but soon, he is from this temptation, only takes
a gold piece out and closed the stock exchange. Then he kneels down,
looks through the column in the chamber in which it is completely silent,
and then he gives the stock a bump, so that they can under the
second bed slides. If the stranger wakes up, he must believe that they
dropped from his chair. Carlo rises slowly. Since the ground creaks softly,
and at the same moment he hears a voice from inside: "What is it?

What's that? "Carlo does two steps backward rapidly, with cautious
breath, and slides into his own chamber. He is in safety and listening
... Again kracht over the bed, and then everything is quiet.
The story of either army was the same. The general in his tent touched
the spring that set all things in motion. The soldiers rose from the hot
ground on which they lay in a stupor rather than sleep. Two streams of
wounded poured to the rear, one to the North and one to the South. The
horses, like their masters, worn and scarred like them, too, were
harnessed to cannon and wagon; the men ate as they worked; there was no
time for delay. This was to be a race, grand and terrible in its nature,
with great battles as incidents. The stakes were high, and the players
played with deadly earnestness.

Both Generals sent orders to hurry and themselves saw that it was done.
The battle of yesterday and the day before was as a thing long past; no
time to think of it now. The dead were left for the moment in the
Wilderness as they had fallen. The air was filled with commands to the
men, shouts to the horses, the sough of wheels in the mud, the breaking
of boughs under weight, and the clank of metal. The Wilderness, torn now
by shells and bullets and scorched by the fires, waved over two armies
gloomier and more somber than ever, deserving to the full its name.

They were still in the Wilderness, and it had lost none of its ominous
aspects. Far to left and right yet burned the forest fires set by the
shells, flaring luridly in the intense blackness that characterized
those nights. The soldiers as they hurried on saw the ribbons and coils
of flame leaping from tree-top to tree-top, and sometimes the languid
winds blew the ashes in their faces. Now and then they crossed parts of
the forest where it had passed, and the earth was hot to their feet.
Around them lay smouldering logs and boughs, and from these fallen
embers tongues of flame arose. Overhead, the moon and stars were shut
out by the clouds and smoke and vapour.

Even with a passion for a new conflict rising in them, the soldiers as
they hurried on felt the weirdness, the satanic character of the
battleground. The fitful flashes of lightning often showed faces stamped
with awe; wet boughs of low-growing trees held them back with a moist
and sticky touch; the low rumble of thunder came from the far horizon
and its tremendous echo passed slowly through the Wilderness; and
mingled again with this sound was an occasional cannon shot as the
fringes of the two armies hastening on passed the time of night.

The tread of either army was heavy, dull and irregular, and the few
torches they carried added little light to the glare of the lightning
and the glow of the burning forest. The two marched on in the dark,
saying little, making little noise for numbers so great, but steadily
converging on Spottsylvania, where they were destined to meet in a
conflict rivaling in somber grandeur that of the past two days.


CHAPTER XXI

A DELICATE SITUATION


The wounded and those who watched them in the old house learned a little
of the race through the darkness. The change of the field of combat, the
struggle for Spottsylvania and the wheel-about of the Southern army
would leave them in the path of the North, and they must retreat toward
Richmond.

The start next morning was through a torn and rent Wilderness, amid
smoke and vapours, with wounded in the wagons, making a solemn train
that wound its way through the forest, escorted on either flank by
troopers, commanded by Talbot, slightly wounded in the shoulder. The
Secretary had gone again to look on at the battle.

It was thus that Lucia Catherwood found herself on the way, of her own
free will, to that Richmond from which she had recently escaped with so
much trouble. There was no reason, real or conventional, why she should
not go, as the precious pass from the Secretary removed all danger; and
there in Richmond was Miss Grayson, the nearest of her blood. Helen
removed the last misgiving.

"You will go with us? We need you," she said.

"Yes," replied Lucia simply; "I shall go to Richmond. I have a relative
there with whom I can stay until the end of the war."

Helen was contented with this. It was not a time to ask questions. Then
they rode together. Mrs. Markham was with them, quiet and keen-eyed.
Much of the battle's spell had gone from her, and she observed
everything, most of all Lucia Catherwood. She had noticed how the girl's
eyes dwelled upon Prescott, the singular compound of strength and
tenderness in her face, a character at once womanly and bold, and the
astute Mrs. Markham began to wonder where these two had met before; but
she said nothing to any one.

Prescott was in a wagon with Harley. Fate seemed to have linked for
awhile these two who did not particularly care for each other. Both were
conscious, and Prescott was sitting up, refreshed by the air upon his
face, a heavy and noxious atmosphere though it was. So much of his
strength had returned that he felt bitter regret at being unable to take
part in the great movement which, he had gathered, was going on, and it
was this feeling which united him and Harley for the time in a common
bond of sympathy; but the latter presently spoke of something else:

"That was a beautiful girl who replaced your bandage this morning,
Prescott. Upon my honour, she is one of the finest women I ever saw, and
she is going with us, I hear. Do you know anything about her?"

Prescott did not altogether like Harley's tone, but he knew it was
foolish to resent it and he replied:

"She is Miss Lucia Catherwood, a relative of Miss Charlotte Grayson, who
lives in Richmond, and whom I presume she is going there to join. I have
seen Miss Catherwood once or twice in Richmond."

Then he relapsed into silence, and Harley was unable to draw from him
any more information; but Prescott, watching Lucia, saw how strong and
helpful she was, doing all she could for those who were not her own. A
woman with all a woman's emotions and sympathies, controlled by a mind
and body stronger than those of most women, she was yet of the earth,
real and substantial, ready to take what it contained of joy or sorrow.
This was one of her qualities that most strongly attracted Prescott, who
did not like the shadowy or unreal. Whilst he was on the earth he wished
to be of it, and he preferred the sure and strong mind to the misty and
dreamy.

He wished that she would come again to the wagon in which he rode, but
now she seemed to avoid him--to be impelled, as it were, by a sense of
shyness or a fear that she might be thought unfeminine. Thus he found
scant opportunity during the day to talk to her or even to see her, as
she remained nearly all the time in the rear of the column with Helen
Harley.

Harley's vagrant fancy was caught. He was impressed by Lucia's tall
beauty, her silence, her self-possession, and the mystery of her
presence. He wished to discover more about her, who she was, whence she
came, and believing Prescott to be his proper source of information, he
asked him many questions, not noticing the impatient or taciturn
demeanour of his comrade until Robert at last exclaimed with a touch of
anger:

"Harley, if you wish to know so much about Miss Catherwood, you had
better ask her these questions, and if she wishes she will answer them."

"I knew that before," replied Harley coolly; "and I tell you again,
Prescott, she's a fine girl--none finer in Richmond."

Prescott turned his back in so far as a wounded man in that narrow space
could turn, and Harley presently relapsed into silence.

They were yet in the Wilderness, moving among scrub pines, oaks and
cedars, over ground moist with rain and dark with the shadow of the
forest. It was Talbot's wish to keep in the rear of the Southern army
until the way was clear and then turn toward Richmond. But this was not
done with ease, as the Southern army was a shifting quantity, adapting
its movements to those of the North; and Talbot often was compelled to
send scouts abroad, lest he march with his convoy of wounded directly
into the Northern ranks. Once as he rode by the side of Prescott's wagon
he remarked:

"Confound such a place as this Wilderness; I don't think any region ever
better deserved its name. I'll thank the Lord when I get out of it and
see daylight again."

They were then in a dense forest, where the undergrowth was so thick
that they broke a way through it with difficulty. The trees hung down
mournful boughs dripping with recent rain; the wheels of the wagons and
the feet of the horses made a drumming sound in the soft earth; the
forest fire still showed, distant and dim, and a thin mist of ashes came
on the wind at intervals; now and then they heard the low roll of a
cannon, so far away that it seemed but an echo.

Thomas Talbot was usually a cheerful man who shut one eye to grief and
opened the other to joy; but he was full of vigilance to-day and thought
only of duty. Riding at the head of his column, alert for danger, he was
troubled by the uncertainties of the way. It seemed to him that the two
armies were revolving like spokes around a hub, and he never knew which
he was going to encounter, for chance might bring him into the arc of
either. He looked long at the gloomy forest, gazed at the dim fire which
marked the latest battlefield, and became convinced that it was his only
policy to push on and take the risk, though he listened intently for
distant cannon shots and bore away from them.

They stopped about the middle of the afternoon to rest the horses and
serve men and women with scanty food. Prescott felt so strong that he
climbed out of the wagon and stood for a moment beside it. His head was
dizzy at first, but presently it became steady, and he walked to Lucia
Catherwood, who was standing alone by a great oak tree, gazing at the
forest.

She did not notice him until she heard his step in the soft earth close
behind her, when she started in surprise and alarm, exclaiming upon the
risk he took and cautioning against exertion.

"My head is hard," he said, "and it will stand more blows than the one I
received in the battle. Really I feel well enough to walk out here and I
want to speak to you."

She was silent, awaiting his words. A shaft of sunshine pierced an
opening in the foliage and fell directly upon her. Golden gleams
appeared here and there in her hair and the colour in her cheeks
deepened. Often Prescott had thought how strong she was; now he thought
how very womanly she was.

"You are going with the wounded to Richmond?" he said.

"Yes," she replied. "I am going back to Miss Grayson's, to the house and
the city from which you helped me with so much trouble and danger to
escape."

"I am easier in my conscience because I did so," he said. "But Miss
Catherwood, do you not fear for yourself? Are you not venturing into
danger again?"

She smiled once more and replied in a slightly humourous tone:

"No; there is no danger. I went as one unwelcome before; I go as a guest
now. You see, I am rising in the Confederacy. One of your powerful men,
Mr. Sefton, has been very kind to me."

"What has he done for you?" asked Prescott, with a sudden jealous
twinge.

"He has given me this pass, which will take me in or out of Richmond as
I wish."

She showed the pass, and as Prescott looked at it he felt the colour
rise in his face. Could the heart of the Secretary have followed the
course of his own?

"I am here now, I may say, almost by chance," she continued. "After I
left you I reached the main body of the Northern army in safety, and I
intended to go at once to Washington, where I have relatives, though
none so near and dear as Miss Grayson--you see I am really of the South,
in part at least--but there was a long delay about a pass, the way of
going and other such things, and while I was waiting General Grant began
his great forward movement. There was nothing left for me to do then but
to cling to the army--and--and I thought I might be of some use there.
Women may not be needed on a battlefield, but they are afterward."

"I, most of all men, ought to know that," said Prescott, earnestly.
"Don't I know that you, unaided, brought me to that house? Were it not
for you I should probably have died alone in the Wilderness."

"I owed you something, Captain Prescott, and I have tried to repay a
little," she said.

"You owe me nothing; the debt is all mine."

"Captain Prescott, I hope you do not think I have been unwomanly," she
said.

"Unwomanly? Why should I think it?"

"Because I went to Richmond alone, though I did so really because I had
nowhere else to go. You believe me a spy, and you think for that reason
I was trying to escape from Richmond!"

She stopped and looked at Prescott, and when she met his answering gaze
the flush in her cheeks deepened.

"Ah, I was right; you do think me a spy!" she exclaimed with passionate
earnestness, "and God knows I might have been one! Some such thought was
in my mind when I went to Miss Grayson's in Richmond. That day in the
President's office, when the people were at the reception I was sorely
tempted, but I turned away. I went into that room with the full
intention of being a spy. I admit it. Morally, I suppose that I was one
until that moment, but when the opportunity came I could not do it. The
temptation would come again, I knew, and it was one reason why I wished
to leave Richmond, though my first attempt was made because I feared
you--I did not know you then. I do not like the name of spy and I do not
want to be one. But there were others, and far stronger reasons. A
powerful man knew of my presence in that office on that day; he could
have proved me guilty even though innocent, and he could have involved
with my punishment the destruction of others. There was Miss
Grayson--how could I bring ruin upon her head! And--and----"

She stopped and the brilliant colour suffused her face.

"You used the word 'others,'" said Prescott. "You mean that so long as
you were in Richmond my ruin was possible because I helped you?"

She did not reply, but the vivid colour remained in her face.

"It is nothing to me," said Prescott, "whether you were or were not a
spy, or whether you were tempted to be one. My conscience does not
reproach me because I helped you, but I think that it would give me
grievous hurt had I not done so. I am not fitted to be the judge of
anybody, Miss Catherwood, least of all of you. It would never occur to
me to think you unwomanly."

"You see that I value your good opinion, Captain Prescott," she said,
smiling slightly.

"It is the only thing that makes my opinion of any worth."

Talbot approached at that moment. Prescott introduced him with the
courtesy of the time, not qualified at all by their present
circumstances, and he regarded Talbot's look of wonder and admiration
with a secret pleasure. What would Talbot say, he thought, if he were to
tell him that this was the girl for whom he had searched Miss Grayson's
house?

"Prescott," said Talbot, "a bruised head has put you here and a
scratched arm keeps me in the same fix, but this is almost our old crowd
and Richmond again--Miss Harley and her brother, Mrs. Markham, you and
myself. We ought to meet Winthrop, Raymond and General Wood."

"We may," added Prescott, "as they are all somewhere with the army;
Raymond is probably printing an issue of his paper in the rear of it--he
certainly has news--and as General Wood is usually everywhere we are not
likely to miss him."

"I think it just as probable that we shall meet a troop of Yankee
cavalry," said Talbot. "I don't know what they would want with a convoy
of wounded Confederates, but I'm detailed to take you to safety and I'd
like to do it."

He paused and looked at Lucia. Something in her manner gave him a
passing idea that she was not of his people.

"Still there is not much danger of that," he continued. "The Yankees are
poor horsemen--not to be compared with ours, are they, Miss Catherwood?"

She met his gaze directly and smiled.

"I think the Yankee cavalry is very good," she said. "You may call me a
Yankee, too, Captain Talbot. I am not traveling in disguise."

Talbot stroked his mustache, of which he was proud, and laughed.

"I thought so," he said; "and I can't say I'm sorry. I suppose I ought
to hate all the Yankees, but really it will add to the spice of life to
have with us a Yankee lady who is not afraid to speak her mind. Besides,
if things go badly with us we can relieve our minds by attacking you."

Talbot was philosophical as well as amiable, and Prescott saw at once
that he and Lucia would be good friends, which was a comfort, as it was
in the power of the commander of the convoy to have made her life
unpleasant.

Talbot stayed only a minute or two, then rode on to the head of the
column, and when he was gone Lucia said:

"Captain Prescott, you must go back to your wagon; it is not wise for
you to stay on your feet so long--at least, not yet."

He obeyed her reluctantly, and in a few moments the convoy moved on
through the deep woods to the note of an occasional and distant cannon
shot and a faint hum as of great armies moving. An hour later they heard
a swift gallop and the figure of Wood at the head of a hundred horsemen
appeared.

The mountaineer seemed to embrace the whole column in one comprehensive
look that was a smile of pleasure when it passed over the face of Helen
Harley, a glance of curiosity when it lingered on Lucia Catherwood, and
inquiry when it reached Talbot, who quickly explained his mission. All
surrounded Wood, eager for news.

"We're going to meet down here somewhere near a place they call
Spottsylvania," said the General succinctly. "It won't be many days--two
or three, I guess--and it will be as rough a meeting as that behind us
was. If I were you, Talbot, I'd keep straight on to the south."

Then the General turned with his troopers to go. It was not a time when
he could afford to tarry; but before starting he took Helen Harley's
hand in his with a grace worthy of better training:

"I'll bring you news of the coming battle, Miss Harley."

She thanked him with her eyes, and in a moment he was gone, he and his
troopers swallowed up by the black forest. The convoy resumed its way
through the Wilderness, passing on at a pace that was of necessity slow
owing to the wounded in the wagons and the rough and tangled nature of
the country, which lost nothing of its wild and somber character. The
dwarf cedars and oaks and pines still stretched away to the horizon.
Night began to come down in the east and there the Wilderness heaved up
in a black mass against the sullen sky. The low note of a cannon shot
came now and then like the faint rumble of dying thunder.

Lucia walked alone near the rear of the column. She had grown weary of
the wagons and her strong young frame craved exercise. She was seldom
afraid or awed, but now the sun sinking over the terrible Wilderness and
the smoke of battle around chilled her. The long column of the hurt,
winding its way so lonely and silent through the illimitable forest,
seemed like a wreck cast up from the battles, and her soul was full of
sympathy. In a nature of unusual strength her emotions were of like
quality, and though once she had been animated by a deep and passionate
anger against that South with which she now marched, at this moment she
found it all gone--slipped away while she was not noticing. She loved
her own cause none the less, but no longer hated the enemy. She had
received the sympathy and the friendship of a woman toward whom she had
once felt a sensation akin to dislike. She did not forget how she had
stood in the fringe of the crowd that day in Richmond and had envied
Helen Harley when, in her glowing beauty, she received the tribute of
the multitude. Now the two women were drawn together. Something that had
been between them was gone, and in her heart Lucia knew what it was; but
she rejoiced in a companionship and a friendship of her own sex when she
was among those who were not of her cause.

It was impossible to resist sharing the feelings of the column: when it
was in dread lest some wandering echo might be the tread of Northern
horsemen, she, too, was in dread. She wanted this particular column to
escape, but when she looked toward another part of the Wilderness, saw
the dim light and heard the far rumble of another cannon shot, she felt
a secret glow of pride. Grant was still coming, always coming, and he
would come to the end. The result was no longer in doubt; it was now
merely a matter of time and patience.

Until then, banish 'ich dich, Tight Bey of death, you and the rest of
my seducer, you never under ten miles of my person to approach. I
want you to let Nöthiger maintenance, so you do not weakness Nöthiger
rude to thun, and as we will hear that you are improving, we want you,
euerm status and efficiency of your after, give Befördrung - Sorget
for Milord, our intention that this will nachgelebt. Continued - (The
King and his entourage pass.) Ninth Scene. Falstaff. Schallow Lord, I
am a thousand pounds you owe. Schallow. Yes, my soul, Sir John, and I
ask you, give it to me again home. Falstaff.

This can hardly Seyn, Mr Schallow. Do not worry on this, he will send
for me secret, you see, before he had the people so like thun. Seyde
without concern for your transportation, but I want the man Seyn that
you do great. Schallow. Begreiffen I can not like the approach would
have, except if you give me your dewlap, and me with straw ausstopft.
I ask you, good Sir John, just give me at least five hundred pounds.

Falstaff. Sir, my word is just as much. What you heard this, adjustment
was only a trick, as I say, come with me to eat lunch, come, Lieutenant
Pistol: come, Bardolph. It is now night soon after I send. (The top
judge, Lord and Lancaster occur.) Top judge Lord (for his retinue.)
Moves brings Sir John Falstaff to the Fleet.
Always she knew what to do and
when to do it. She never grew tired nor lost her good humour; her touch
had healing in it, and the wounded grew better at the sight of her face.

"If all the Yankees are like her, I wish I had a few more with this
column," murmured Talbot under his breath.

Lucia began to feel the change in the atmosphere about her. The coldness
vanished. She looked upon the faces that welcomed her, and being a woman
she felt warmth at her heart, but said nothing.

Prescott crawled again from his wagon and said to her as she passed:

"Why do you avoid me, Miss Catherwood?"

A gleam of humour appeared in her eye.

"You are getting well too fast. I do not think you will need any more
attention," she replied.

He regarded her with an unmoved countenance.

"Miss Catherwood," he said, "I feel myself growing very much worse. It
is a sudden attack and a bad one."

But she passed on, disbelieving, and left him rueful.

The night went by without event, and then another day and another night,
and still they hovered in the rear of their army, uncertain which way to
go, tangled up in the Wilderness and fearing at any moment a raid of the
Northern cavalry. They yet saw the dim fire in the forest, and no hour
was without its distant cannon shot.

On the second day the two editors, Raymond and Winthrop, joined them.

"I've been trying to print a paper," said Raymond ruefully, "but they
wouldn't stay in one place long enough for me to get my press going.
This morning a Yankee cannon shot smashed the press and I suppose I
might as well go back to Richmond. But I can't, with so much coming on.
They'll be in battle before another day."

Raymond spoke in solemn tones (even he was awed and oppressed by what he
had seen) and Winthrop nodded assent.

"They are converging upon the same point," said Winthrop, "and they are
sure to meet inside of twenty-four hours."

When Lucia awoke the next morning the distant guns were sounding in her
ears and a light flame burned under the horizon in the north. Day had
just come, hot and close, and the sun showed the colour of copper
through the veil of clouds hanging at the tops of the trees.

"It's begun," she heard Talbot say briefly, but she did not need his
words to tell her that the armies were joined again in deadly strife in
the Wilderness.

They ate breakfast in silence, all watching the glowing light in the
north and listening to the thunder of the guns. Prescott, strong after
his night's rest and sleep, came from the wagon and announced that he
would not ride as an invalid any more; he intended to do his share of
the work, and Talbot did not contradict him; it was a time when a man
who could serve should be permitted to do it.

Talbot said they would remain in the camp for the present and await the
fortunes of the battle; it was not worth while to continue a retreat
when none knew in which direction the right path lay. But the men as
they listened were seized with a fever of impatience. The flame of the
cannon and the thunder of the battle had a singular attraction for them.
They wished to be there and they cursed their fate because they were
here. The wounded lamented their wounds and the well were sad because
they were detailed for such duty; the new battle was going on without
them, and the result would be decided while they waited there in the
Wilderness with their hands folded. How they missed the Secretary with
his news!

The morning went slowly on. The sun rose high, but it still shone with a
coppery hue through the floating clouds, and a thick blanket of damp
heat enclosed the convoy. The air seemed to tremble with the sound from
the distant battle; it came in waves, and save for it the forest was
silent; no birds sang in the trees, nothing moved in the grass. There
was only the rumble of guns, coming wave upon wave. Thus hour after hour
passed, and the fever of impatience still held the souls of those in
this column. But the black Wilderness would tell no tale; it gave back
the sound of conflict and nothing more. They watched the growing smoke
and flame, the forest bursting into fresh fires, and knew only that the
battle was fierce and desperate, as before.

Prescott's strength was returning rapidly, and he expected in another
day or two to return to the army. The spirit was strong within him to
make the trial now, but Talbot would not hear of it, saying that his
wound was not healed sufficiently. On the morning of that second day he
stood beside Lucia, somewhat withdrawn from the others, and for awhile
they watched the distant battle. It was the first time in twenty-four
hours that he had been able to speak to her. She had not seemed exactly
to avoid him, but she was never in his path. Now he wished to hold her
there with talk.

"I fear that you will be lonely in Richmond," he said at random.

"I shall have Miss Grayson," she replied, "and the panorama of the war
will pass before me; I shall not have time for loneliness."

"Poor Richmond! It is desolate now."

"Its condition may become worse," she said meaningly.

He understood the look in her eyes and replied:

"You mean that Grant will come?"

"Yes!" she exclaimed, pointing toward the flame of the battle. "Can't
you see? Don't you know, Captain Prescott, that Grant will never turn
back? It is but three days since he fought a battle as great as
Gettysburg, and now he is fighting another. The man has come, and the
time for the South is at hand."

"But what a price--what a price!" said Prescott.

"Yes," she replied quickly; "but it is the South, not the North, that
demands payment."

Then she stopped, and brilliant colour flushed into her face.

"Forgive me for saying such things at such a time," she said. "I do not
hate anybody in the South, and I am now with Southern people. Credit it
to my bad taste."

But Prescott would not have it so. It was he who had spoken, he said,
and she had the right to reply. Then he asked her indirectly of herself,
and she answered willingly. Hers had been a lonely life, and she had
been forced to develop self-reliance, though perhaps it had taken her
further than she intended. She seemed still to fear that he would think
her too masculine, a bit unwomanly; but her loneliness, the lack of love
in her life, made a new appeal to Prescott. He admired her as she stood
there in her splendid young beauty and strength--a woman with a mind to
match her beauty--and wondered how his fleeting fancy could ever have
been drawn to any other. She was going to that hostile Richmond, where
she had been in such danger, and she would be alone there save for one
weak woman, watched and suspected like herself. He felt a sudden
overwhelming desire to protect her, to defend her, to be a wall between
her and all danger.

Far off on the northern horizon the battle flamed and rumbled, and a
faint reflection of its lurid glow fell on the forest where they stood.
It may be that its reflection fell on Prescott's ardent mind and
hastened him on.

"Lucia," he exclaimed, "you are going back to Richmond, where you will
be suspected, perhaps insulted! Give me the right to protect you from
everybody!"

"Give you the right!" she exclaimed, in surprise; but as she looked at
him the brilliant colour dyed her face and neck.

"Yes, Lucia," he said, "the greatest and holiest of all rights! Do you
not see that I love you? Be my wife! Give me the right as your husband
to stand between you and all danger!"

Still she looked at him, and as she gazed the colour left her face,
leaving it very pale, while her eyes showed a dazzling hue.

The forgotten battle flamed and thundered on the horizon.

"No," she replied, "I cannot give you such a promise."

"Lucia! You do not mean that! I know you do not. You must care for me a
little. One reason why you fled from Richmond was to save me!"

"Yes, I do care for you--a little. But do you care for me enough--ah! do
not interrupt me! Think of the time, the circumstances! One may say
things now which he might not mean in a cooler moment. You wish to
protect me--does a man marry a woman merely to protect her? I have
always been able to protect myself."

There was a flash of pride in her tone and her tall figure grew taller.
Prescott flushed a little and dropped his eyes for a moment.

"I have been unfortunate in my words, but, believe me, Lucia, I do not
mean it in that way. It is love, not protection, that I offer. I believe
that I loved you from the first--from the time I was pursuing you as a
spy; and I pursue you now, though for myself."

She shook her head sadly, though she smiled upon him. She was his enemy,
she said--she was of the North and he of the South--what would he say to
his friends in Richmond, and how could he compromise himself by such a
marriage? Moreover, it was a time of war, and one must not think of
love. He grew more passionate in his declaration as he saw that which he
wished slipping from him, and she, though still refusing him, let him
talk, because he said the things that she loved best to hear. All the
while the forgotten battle flamed and thundered on the northern horizon.
Its result and progress alike were of no concern to them; both North and
South had floated off in the distance.

Talbot came that way as they talked, and seeing the look on their faces,
started and turned back. They never saw him. Lucia remained fixed in her
resolve and only shook her head at Prescott's pleading.

"But at least," said Prescott, "that 'no' is not to apply forever. I
shall refuse to despair."

She smiled somewhat sadly without reply, and there was no opportunity to
say more, as others drew near, among them Mrs. Markham, wary and
keen-eyed as ever. She marked well the countenances of these two, but
reserved her observations for future use.

The battle reclaimed attention, silhouetted as it was in a great flaming
cloud against a twilight sky, and its low rumble was an unbroken note.

When night fell a messenger came with terrible news. Grant had broken
through at last! The thin lines of the Confederates could not stand this
steady, heavy hammering day after day. They must retreat through the
Wilderness and draw fresh breath to fight again. Sadly the convoy took
its way to the south, and in three hours it was enveloped by the
remnants of a broken brigade, retreating in the fear of hot pursuit by
both cavalry and infantry. The commander of the brigade, by virtue of
his rank, became commander of the whole, and Talbot, longing for action,
fell back to the rear, resolved to watch for the enemy.

Talbot hated to exercise authority, preferring to act alone; and now he
became a picket, keen-eyed, alert, while his friends went into camp
ahead on the bank of a narrow but deep river. Presently he heard shots
and knew that the skirmishers of the enemy were advancing, though he
wondered why they should show such pernicious activity on so black a
night. They were in battle with some other retreating Southern
force--probably a regiment, he thought--and if they wanted to fight he
could not help it.


CHAPTER XXII

THE LONE SENTINEL


The desultory firing troubled the ears of Talbot as he trod to and fro
on his self-imposed task, as he could not see the use of it. The day for
fighting and the night for sleep and rest was the perfect division of a
soldier's life.

The tail of the battle writhed on without regard for his feelings or
theories, though its efforts became gradually feebler, and he hoped that
by and by the decent part of both armies would settle into lethargy,
leaving the night to the skirmishers, who never sleep and are without
conscience.

He went back a little to an open spot where a detail of about twenty men
were posted. But he did not remain with them long. Securing a rifle, he
returned toward the enemy, resolved to watch on his own account--a
voluntary picket.

Talbot was not troubled for his friends alone. The brigade had been
beaten and driven back upon the river, and with the press of numbers
against it he feared that the next day would bring its destruction. The
coming of the night, covering friend and foe alike and making activity
hazardous, was opportune, since it would give his comrades time to rest
and gather their strength for the stand in the morning. But not to the
woman that he had questioned, and what ever so familiar "_natürlich_"
had responded, but one that also confessed to everything _und had
laughed, melodic and friendly like a singing Glocke_.

This woman had nothing mono-Ata promised, and the countries still honor
her memory and her singing laughter. When the great Chinese and knows
and his wife smiling sweetly after died "very happy marriage, both buried
at sea beaches in the enigmatic tree, whose bark Ata mono never
deciphered has. - hundreds of years afterwards, when the Chinese and Japan
discovered _den harfenförmigen Lake Biwa, a large harp, in the land of
eternal fire are fanden_, they brought it inexplicable that a rice tree,
at a time when the Japanese still leaves clothes with unkempt hair and
a small fire inhabited island and the Chinese there first apostle of
higher education and civilization have been.

And again a few centuries later, when the first Chinese Buddhist monks,
the religion of the plant, the animal kingdom and empire of man and the
Japanese gave them Fraternization the space of all beings and taught
the monks Mijderatempel with its terraces built on Lake Biwa, because
it reminded again of the enigmatic tree that now through the centuries
and had become powerful. And everyone who on the tree at Lake Biwa was
said by Ata-Monos history, until one day a Japanese monk who was
born.

This was the first to the bark of the ancient, mysterious tree on Lake
Biwa decipher learned that until then had remained illegible. And
he read to his astonishment the tree bark of the sentence: "_O knows,
people, and hear me, I will be old like the earth crust to me and
all who are so old the earth is greater than the love of immortality.
_ "And this saying read the Japanese monk and milliardenmal billions
into the Kronenäste in the trunk and the root bark dug; to the deepest
roots in the ground down there said the tree has no other record. Now
we are also reminded that Ata - Mono, since he happy with the laughing
woman lived, and never more spoken of the immortality that he never
referred to his wife the way to immortality had asked. And in the past
increased the laughter that woman, as if from a grave, as monks,
a bell cast were still in the evening Mijderatempel rung, and their
voice as the voice of sanftgewordene millennia sounds, the singing
and the sound of a happy woman has.

The old tree is now only a stump, from stilts and crutches supported.
At the place where he stands on the lake, leads a wooden temple.
Its branches are equipped with thousands of slips of white curtain prayer.
Thousands of pilgrims from Japan and China to visit him, the immortals,
which proclaims: "Love is bigger than the immortality," and call him
"the lucky" because he evening at dinner the precious female voice
of the evening bell of Mijderatempels can eavesdrop the that laughter
is like the female, where mono-Ata once the desire for immortality
forgot.

Come home Come home, come home, I can not expect early evening, the flowers
in the garden, closed the floor to my feet red, the last flame of the
sun verloht. The trees are frightened, the wind goes to the house, My
thoughts stretch for you. On a green lawn early sun rises in the
blue, like a golden Fee, Will on the shoulders of the trees look. The
chasing butterflies on tree and clover, And clouds can be taken back
over the blue lanes, as ladies in silken car. You and me on a green
lawn, how at the bottom of a lake, sitting verwunschen world and leave
And if we einsam include knowledge of all the joy we and woe.

Ascension I never ever in another as the sky mag, in which I was
always blessed, in your arm where all the world still refuses to your
feet and wants nothing more. Your hair swaying with his gesture,
your eyes with Scharnstein his lights And your chest, which I will wunschlos
you all sky high like me. Love is the Earth Day for every child. The
snow on the evening to see Hirayama large masts protrude a dozen white
electric arc lamps at night. They illuminate a Landungskai in the
port of Marseille.

Like a long white chalk block there is a white iron steamer Orient,
with hundreds of round, yellow, bright cabin windows. Red, yellow and
white faces, and many beschienene illuminated hands and arms handling
the night on the Plank Bridge and around the icy chains of loading
barges, where piles of suitcases, travel baskets and travel crates are
stowed. Through the long, white corridors inside the steamer rush Indians
dressed in snow white with black faces and hands black from luxurious
kitchens, where abundant copper lights in the magnificent dining rooms,
the red mahogany wood and bright brass pillars, of splendor and
sophistication teem, in them everything is strangely silent,
however, the bitter, moving air through the spaces glühlampenhellen
corridor and through the doors like a turbulent fluid stresses.

The sea, the ship in the palace, although he still stands on the quay,
still all the rooms are a mercury-like impatience, like the juice
of a plant that can from the forest has brought into the room. A quiet
ship is standing still no matter, because the air traveling, which
is also still in the port premises to his strike, it is not sleeping
and not dead appear. The officers, sailors and service teams to keep
quiet on the ship is still the bitter sea of fever in the chest, and
all the rest appears as an accident and walking as the sole
happiness.

The ship sets out at night in Marseille and will be tomorrow at nine clock
early his trip to Asia and Japan applies. Most passengers have for
a few hours of the ship that was already coming from London, for a
short stay in Marseille to leave to return once dinner ashore to eat,
because the ship has been underway for several days and has no port of
London . Now the night is coming to an end.

The electric lights still burning, but the sky is already blue, and
flocks of laughing and a little childish cheerful passengers return from
the theaters, night cafés and night the city back. Young people have red
and blue balloons children tied to their hats. Women have bought arms
full of flowers, winter violets from the Riviera, and all faces are
amused, when these people returned home from a festival home. All they
have only for a few hours with their feet to visit the earth, the
beautiful, quiet, quietly standing its ground with earthly dust smell,
and the passengers in the heart so warm and overflowing it. Now,
all back on the wobbly ship lumber, back the humpback sea, in the
staublose, unirdische sea, in the sun they still remain faithful, but
where the earth for miles deep in the water decreases.

A blue, mild morning broke in January. The lamps on the quay and the
ship's interior verloschen. That morning sun lit the lamps in one thousand
of the thousand wave mirrors, and the brass railing of the snow-white
ship, its red smokestacks and ventilators glowed red vermilion as
the artificial world of theater scenery, built under the indigo
blue Mediterranean sky.

On the quay stood before Bergen seller of wooden Segeltuchstühlen the
them to the passengers for the voyage to Asia-wide sales. At the
departure hall prior to the Telegraph Office urged the travelers who
wrote umgestülpten on suitcases, boxes and tons of telegraph, -
the last farewell greetings from the last European port to the
hometowns.

On the long promenade deck railings of the head stood at the head, elbow
to elbow.

Many small Kodak knipsten harbor and began the picture. On the quay in
front of the wet series of the pack carrier and the shipper had
an athlete a brown carpet scraps spread.

At one end of the carpet has danced in a yellow jersey and pink Tüllröckchen
his ten year old daughter and clatter of castanets, miserable and
unskilful. On the other corner of the carpet was the son of the athlete
in a blue jersey and played on a thin violin.

On the third corner stones and weight were balls, and at the fourth
corner of the carpet was the athlete, even in dirty white shirt and
lifted the weight of bullets, pipes and iron cannon wagon wheels.

Navigability Irene has already repeatedly piercing their departure
signals.

The athlete, the little dancer and the little violinist rauften
with the pack makers to Kupfersousstücke, like a brown hail from
the vessel on the quay rained.

Clerks English crowds who wanted to travel to India and red, whiskytrunkene
faces from the night life of Marseille had brought, one hundred
shouted in chorus "Cheers = = for old England." Then, moving like a
revolving stage, the mighty ship away from the shore.

The balgenden people on the shore, the landing in smaller halls, as
they dropped into any bag into it. Erdbilder, rocky shores, white
limestone, gray roofs series turned like images painted on a giant
roundabout, over. The boat seemed to stand still, but the Earth has become
an immense ball, which is under the ship turned. It gradually started
getting smaller and smaller images, as well as colorless and wiper
mist over, and now, the huge rush of air into the vessel itself, and
the monster, the endless sky, the passengers are silent, not only caused
the earth under their feet but also adopted the idea of any strength
and security, made the blood suspiciously, his feet unsteady, the
brains fainted.

Hundreds of swivel chairs were tied to the railings, that they are
not affected by the wave slipped back and forth. Under huge travel
caps, travel in immense coats and colorful and checkered scarves
wrapped, were the passengers, outstretched in endless rows, on the white
Promenade. The whitewashed walls of iron, the iron railing material,
all straight and vertical lines show infuses security, as well as sobriety,
when the ship would be a huge, physical apparatus in a laboratory, as
though the human preparations, which were kept as artificially until to
land on another continent. Among the ship's passengers, who was in
rank and in lawn chairs on the deck were long, as though the
Deckpromenaden hospitals, two Japanese were to be carried out by
two German ladies, a young rotblonden and an old weißhaarigen, were
accompanied.

There were the two actors Kutsuma and Okuro to the Sada Yakko-force a
European tour was undertaken, and now, separated from the troops,
returned to Japan. Okuro had just been with a German lady married, and
those who always together with her grandmother had also not wanted in
marriage by her disconnect. So, accompanied the eighty-year-old Old
weißhaarige the young couple to Japan. The two Japanese were
European dressed only their yellow faces, and their small figures fell
below the long, Englishmen on rosahäutigen. Ilse, Okuros young and
beautiful woman who had hair of gold luster, goldrot how red
metallic luster of gold.

It was wearing a emerald green dress and was traveling under all the
brown, gray and schwarzkarierten Englishman Englishmen and bright as a
solar prism. Their good mood was by its nature, the fullness of a generous
summer. The grandmother next to her with the white hair that looks like
an old silver surrounded his head, laughed as her granddaughter always
with blue eyes and her face was like a sunny winter day, fresh and
silently. Never have two people happier and more serene in the future
as they traveled two ladies. Okuro had a fortune through his tour
deserves. Ilse did not know what more to her husband should appreciate
the exquisite care with which he surrounded them, the great modesty,
with which it occurred, or the great ease with which he started
smiling all the difficulties.

Only one thing made her restlessness they gradually understood that an
Asian is not: as five and five is ten, but that in his five
o'clock-five o'clock one thousand and one zero can be. They felt that
they have not the hundredth part of the brain of her husband knew, and
sometimes they realized that his small Asian eyes, just smile and
still rosinensüß that which had suddenly black and bitter as
Gallapfelsaft, or even deadly, devastating could act like black,
sparkling Toll cherries.

But it is precisely that it's was not sure that it's the universe's divine
peace and rise in understanding of the children admire and then
suddenly frightened animal had before Kehl sounds that he could
ejaculate, and the bestial vigor suspect would not have - this made
ILSES soul gently as a rabbit, which is a rattlesnake has
zusammengesperrt.

And it was him in the marriage followed, because they are after a
world of adventures longed after exotic secrets.

As the smoke and heated steamer between the blue ether of the sky and
the Mediterranean waters of the Mediterranean gasblauen now separated
from Europe to Africa and Asia to achieve Ilse appeared the white,
blinding in the ship's structure, such as blueness around the white
body of a giant silver fish, the many miles into the blueness, and
would be submerged beneath the seas with their continued sponges.

Only the yellow sun above piece was like a piece of land to be included
in the blueness herabschiene. And she hoped so magical as the sea, so
by reason should now lives in the future to change that all terms are
umstülpten.

But when the second night in the electrical Kailampen of Messina, which
had not yet been passed in a long series, took her husband Ilse Okuro,
alongside her in Deckstuhl and sat in the darkness only at the red
dot of his cigarette, it was apparent, the cigarette from the mouth,
threw it over board and said, pouting in their Flitterwochenstimmung:
"Beloved, how can you smoke and you with your cigarette silently
entertained?

I'm jealous of your cigarette and your peace with her.

I'm still not so old, quiet woman like my grandmother, who falls asleep
when you spend hours silently smoking. I would prefer that you strangle
me, throw into the sea, or something wrong with me do, but I do not
like that you are so calm and indifferent smoking next to me. We know
we have not yet memorized.

The only thing is that, as if you were unfaithful to me, if you
love the cigarette more than me.

"Thereupon answered the young Asian husband:" If I need minions who serve
thee and me, I am not a weak man who could not operate. If I need a
cigarette to calm me there, so I therefore do not from my heart failed,
for you, I need of course to my rest. The cigarettes alone would be enough
with me not serve peace. "Ilse went on quickly and violently:" If you
perhaps instead of cigarette one day another woman abuse test,
which you should operate with a rest, then I should not be restless,
Okuro?

"This still smiled and said quietly:" In Japan a man loves his wife always,
as long as he does not fortschickt. And when women ask us
not according to the ways that a man must go, and make him the man.
"Ilse was even more vehement:" You can love so many women, if it makes
you a man?

And I should feel no pain when your nights with other women and share
your hugs, your body and your heart will give other women, but where I
thought that the day of the wedding yourself to me quite a gift would
have been? "" Not _ich_ 'm _dein_ but _du_'re _mein_ become, "calmly
replied the Japanese. »_Ich_ Am _ich_ stayed and I'm only through you
as well.

But you're starting from the day after our wedding our Asian notions
disappeared and are no more. "" So I am already, "laughed Ilse," on
the day of our wedding and entered into Nirvana now belonged to the
dead? "" Yes, Ilse , greatest happiness is nirvana. And the woman
who is not real life to look after themselves to earning money and
public affairs, can therefore already on the day of her marriage to
enter into Nirvana, the man on the day of his death. "" But I certainly
would not be in nirvana, if you're not it, "cried the young woman
stubborn.

"And as long as you're in the normal life, I will also be an ordinary
living." Okuro said quietly: "The gods have any women you bones to
increase in ordinary life so firmly to stand as the man" This was the
first of hundreds of similar discussions, and Ilse Okuro which, in
their deck, or lying around the ship's smokestacks promenierend, morning,
noon and evening led.
Sefton, for some reason unknown to me,
force me to match my wits with yours, I shall do the best I can."

The haughty uplift of her neck and the flash of her eye showed that she
thought her "best" would be no mean effort, but this attitude appealed
to the Secretary more than a humble submission ever would have done.
Here was one with whom it would be a pleasure to make a test of skill
and force. Certainly steel would be striking sparks from steel.

"I am not making any threats, Miss Catherwood," he said. "That would be
unworthy, I merely wish you to understand the situation. I am a frank
man, I trust, and, like most other men, I seek my own advancement; it
would further no interest of mine for me to denounce you at present, and
I trust that you will not at any time make it otherwise."

"That is, I am to serve you if you call upon me."

"Let us not put it so bluntly."

"I shall not do anything that I do not wish to do," she said, with the
old proud uplift of her head. "And listen! there is something which may
soon shatter all your plans, Mr. Sefton."

She pointed backward, where the purplish clouds hung over the
Wilderness, whence came the low, sullen mutter, almost as faint as the
distant beat of waves on a coast.

The Secretary smiled deprecatingly.

"After all, you are like other women, Miss Catherwood. You suppose, of
course, that I stake my whole fortune upon a single issue, but it is
not so. I wish to live on after the war, whatever its result may be, and
the tide of fortune in that forest may shift and change, but mine may
not shift and change with it."

"You are at least frank."

"The South may lose, but if she loses the world will not end on that
account. I shall still wish to play my part. Ah, here comes Captain
Prescott."

Prescott liked little this long talk between Lucia and the Secretary and
the deep interest each seemed to show in what the other said. He bore it
with patience for a time, but it seemed to him, though the thought was
not so framed in his mind, that he had a certain proprietary interest in
her because he had saved her at great risk.

The Secretary received him with a pleasant smile, made some slight
remark about duty elsewhere and dropped easily away. Prescott waited
until he was out of hearing before he said:

"Do you like that man, Miss Catherwood?"

"I do not know. Why?"

"You were in such close and long conversation that you seemed to be old
friends."

"There were reasons for what we said."

She looked at him so frankly that he was ashamed, but she, recognizing
his tone and the sharpness of it, was not displeased. On the contrary,
she felt a warm glow, and the woman in her urged her to go further. She
spoke well of the Secretary, his penetrating foresight and his knowledge
of the world and its people--men, women and children. Prescott listened
in a somewhat sulky mood, and she, regarding him with covert glances,
was roused to a singular lightness that she had not known for many days.
Then she changed, showing him her softer side, for she could be as
feminine as any other woman, not less so than Helen Harley, and she
would prove it to him. Becoming all sunshine with just enough shadow to
deepen the colours, she spoke of a time when the war should have
passed--when the glory of this world with the green of spring and the
pink of summer should return. Her moods were so many and so variable,
but all so gay, that Prescott began to share her spirits, and although
they were retreating from a lost field and the cannon still muttered
behind them, he forgot the war and remembered only this girl beside him,
who walked with such easy grace and saw so bright an outlook.

Thus the retreat continued. The able-bodied soldiers of the brigade were
drafted away, but the women and wounded men went on. Grant never ceased
his hammer strokes, and it was necessary for the Southern leaders to get
rid of all superfluous baggage. Prescott, singularly enough, found
himself in command of this little column that marched southward, taking
the place of his friend Talbot, lost in a mysterious way to the regret
of all.

Mr. Sefton left them the day after his talk with Lucia, and Prescott was
not sorry to see him go, for some of his uneasiness departed with him.
Harley, vain, fretful and complaining, gave much trouble, yielding only
to the influence of Mrs. Markham, with whom Prescott did not like to see
him, but was helpless in the matter. Helen and Lucia were the most
obedient of soldiers and gave no trouble at all. Helen, a warm partisan,
seemed to think little of the great campaign that was going on behind
her, and to concern herself more about something else. Yet she was not
unhappy--even Prescott could see it--and the bond between her and Lucia
was growing strong daily. Usually they were together, and once when Mrs.
Markham spoke slightingly of the "Northern woman," as she called Lucia,
Helen replied with a sharpness very remarkable for her--a sharpness that
contributed to the growing coldness between them, which had begun with
the power Mrs. Markham exercised over Helen's brother.

Prescott noticed these things more or less and sometimes they pained
him; but clearly they were outside his province, and in order to give
them no room in his mind he applied himself more diligently than ever to
his duties, his wound now permitting him to do almost a man's work.

They marched slowly and it gave promise of being a long journey. The
days grew very hot; the sun burned the grass, and over them hung clouds
of steamy vapour. For the sake of the badly wounded who had fever they
traveled often by night and rested by day in the shade. But that cloud
of war never left them.

The days passed and distant battles still hung on their skirts. The
mutter of the guns was seldom absent, and they yet saw, now and then, on
the horizon, flashes like heat-lightning. One morning there was a rapid
beat of hoofs, a glitter of sabers issuing from a wood, and in a moment
the little convoy was surrounded by a troop of cavalry in blue.

"Only wounded men and women," said their leader, a young colonel with a
fine, open face. "Bah, we have no time to waste with them!"

He bowed contritely, touching his hat to the ladies and saying that he
did not mean to be ungallant. Then in a moment he and his men were gone
at gallop in a cloud of dust, disappearing in a whirlwind across the
plain, leaving the little convoy to proceed at its leisure.

Prescott gazed after them, shading his eyes with his hands. "There must
be some great movement at hand," he said, "or they would have asked us
questions, at least."

The day grew close and sultry. Columns of steamy vapour moved back and
forth and enclosed them, and the sun set in a red mist. At night it
rained, but early the next morning the mutter of the cannon grew to a
rumble and then a storm. The hot day came and all the east was filled
with flashes of fire. The crash of the cannon was incessant, and in
fancy every one in that little convoy heard the tramping of brigades and
the clatter of hoofs as the horsemen rushed on the guns.

"They have met again!" said Lucia.

"Yes," replied Prescott. "It's Grant and Lee. How many great battles is
this since they met first in the Wilderness?"

Nobody could tell; they had lost count.

The tumult lasted about an hour and then died away, to be succeeded by a
stillness intense and painful. The sun shone with a white glare. No wind
stirred. The leaves and the grass drooped. The fields were deserted;
there was not a sign of life in them, either human or animal. The road
lay before them, a dusty streak.

None came to tell of the battle, and, oppressed by anxiety, Prescott
moved on. Some horsemen appeared on the hills the next morning, and as
they approached, Prescott, with indescribable joy, recognized in the
lead the figure of Talbot, whose unknown fate they had mourned. Talbot
delightedly shook hands with them all, not neglecting Lucia Catherwood.
His honest face glowed with emotion.

"I am on a scout around our army now," he said, "and I thought I should
find you near here somewhere. I wanted to tell you what had become of
me. I was captured that night we were crossing the river--some of my
blundering--but I escaped the next night. It was easy enough to do it.
There was so much fighting and so much of everything going on that I
just rose up and walked out of the Yankee camp. Nobody had time to pay
any attention to me. I got back to Lee--somehow I knew I must do it, as
he could never win the war without me--and here I am."

"There was a battle yesterday morning; we heard it," said Prescott.

Talbot's face clouded and the corners of his mouth drooped.

"We have won a great victory," he said, "but it doesn't pay us. The
Yankees lost twelve or fifteen thousand men, but we haven't gained
anything. That firing you heard was at Cold Harbour. It was a great
battle, an awful one. I hope to God I shall never see its like again. I
saw fifteen thousand men stretched out on the bloody ground in rows. I
don't believe that so many men ever before fell in so short a time. I
have heard of a whirlwind of death, but I never saw one till then.

"We had gone into intrenchments and Grant moved against us with his
whole army. They came on; you could hear 'em, the tramp of regiments
and brigades, scores of thousands, and the sun rising up and turning to
gold over their heads. Our cannon began. What a crash! It was like
twenty thunderbolts all at once. We swept that field with tons and tons
of metal. Then our rifles opened and the whistling of the bullets was
like the screaming of a wind on a plain. You could see the men of that
army shoot up into the air before such a sheet of metal, and you heard
the cracking of bones like the breaking up of ice. After awhile those
that lived had to turn back; human beings could not stand more, and we
were glad when it was all over."

Talbot stayed a little while with them. Then he and his men, like the
Northern cavalry, whirled off in a cloud of dust, and the little convoy
resumed its solemn march southward, reaching Richmond in safety.


CHAPTER XXIV

THE DESPATCH BEARER


Leaves of yellow and red and brown were falling, and the wind that came
up the valley played on the boughs like a bow on the strings of a
violin. The mountain ridges piled against each other cut the blue sky
like a saber's edge, and the forests on the slopes rising terrace above
terrace burned in vivid colours painted by the brush of autumn. The
despatch bearer's eye, sweeping peaks and slopes and valleys, saw
nothing living save himself and his good horse. The silver streams in
the valleys, the vivid forests on the slopes and the blue peaks above
told of peace, which was also in the musical note of the wind, in the
shy eyes of a deer that looked at him a moment then fled away to the
forest, and in the bubbles of pink and blue that floated on the silver
surface of the stream at his feet.

Prescott had been into the far South on a special mission from the
Confederate Government in Richmond after his return from the Wilderness
and complete recovery from his wound, and now he was going back through
a sea of mountains, the great range that fills up so much of North
Carolina and its fifty thousand square miles, and he was not sorry to
find the way long. He enjoyed the crisp air, the winds, the burning
colours of the forest, the deep blue of the sky and the infinite peace.
But the nights lay cold on the ridges, and Prescott, when he could find
no cabin for shelter, built a fire of pine branches and, wrapping
himself in his blanket, slept with his feet to the coals. The cold
increased by and by, and icy wind roared among the peaks and brought a
skim of snow. Then Prescott shivered and pined for the lowlands and the
haunts of men.

He descended at last from the peaks and entered a tiny hamlet of the
backwoods, where he found among other things a two-weeks-old Richmond
newspaper. Looking eagerly through its meager columns to see what had
happened while he was buried in the hills, he learned that there was no
new stage in the war--no other great battle. The armies were facing each
other across their entrenchments at Petersburg, and the moment a head
appeared above either parapet the crack of a rifle from the other told
of one more death added to the hundreds of thousands. That was all of
the war save that food was growing scarcer and the blockade of the
Southern ports more vigilant. It was a skilful and daring blockade
runner now that could creep past the watching ships.

On an inside page he found social news. Richmond was crowded with
refugees, and wherever men and women gather they must have diversion
though at the very mouths of the guns. The gaiety of the capital, real
or feigned, continued, and his eye was caught by the name of Lucia
Catherwood. There was a new beauty in Richmond, the newspaper said, one
whose graces of face and figure were equaled only by the qualities of
her mind. She had relatives of strong Northern tendencies, and she had
been known to express such sympathies herself; but they only lent
piquancy to her conversation. She had appeared at one of the President's
receptions; and further on Prescott saw the name of Mr. Sefton. There
was nothing by which he could tell with certainty, but he inferred that
she had gone there with the Secretary. A sudden thought assailed and
tormented him. What could the Secretary be to her? Well, why not? Mr.
Sefton was an able and insinuating man. Moreover, he was no bitter
partisan: the fact that she believed in the cause of the North would not
trouble him. She had refused himself and not many minutes later had been
seen talking with the Secretary in what seemed to be the most
confidential manner. Why had she come back to Richmond, from which she
had escaped amid such dangers? Did it not mean that she and the
Secretary had become allies more than friends? The thought would not
let Prescott rest.

Prescott put the newspaper in his pocket and left the little tavern with
an abruptness that astonished his host, setting out upon his ride with
increased haste and turning eastward, intending to reach the railroad at
the nearest point where he could take a train to Richmond.

His was not a morbid mind, but the fever in it grew. He had thought that
the Secretary loved Helen Harley: but once he had fancied himself in
love with Helen, too, and why might not the Secretary suffering from the
same delusion be changed in the same way? He took out the newspaper and
read the story again. There was much about her beauty, a description of
her dress, and the distinction of her manner and appearance. The
President himself, it said, was charmed with her, and departing from his
usual cold reserve gave her graceful compliments.

This new reading of the newspaper only added more impetus to his speed
and on the afternoon of the same day he reached the railroad station.
Early the next morning he entered Richmond.

His heart, despite its recurrent troubles, was light, for he was coming
home once more.

The streets were but slightly changed--perhaps a little more bareness
and leanness of aspect, an older and more faded look to the clothing of
the people whom he passed, but the same fine courage shone in their
eyes. If Richmond, after nearly four years of fighting, heard the guns
of the foe once more, she merely drew tighter the belt around her lean
waist and turning her face toward the enemy smiled bravely.

The President received the despatch bearer in his private room, looking
taller, thinner and sterner than ever. Although a Kentuckian by birth,
he had been bred in the far South, but had little of that far South
about him save the dress he wore. He was too cold, too precise, too free
from sudden emotion to be of the Gulf Coast State that sent him to the
capital. Prescott often reflected upon the odd coincidence that the
opposing Presidents, Lincoln and Davis, should have been produced by
the same State, Kentucky, and that the President of the South should be
Northern in manner and the President of the North Southern in manner.

Mr. Davis read the despatches while their bearer, at his request, waited
by. Prescott knew the hopeless tenor of those letters, but he could see
no change in the stern, gray face as its owner read them, letter after
letter. More than a half-hour passed and there was no sound in the room
save the rustling of the paper as the President turned it sheet by
sheet. Then in even, dry tones he said:

"You need not wait any longer, Captain Prescott; you have done your part
well and I thank you. You will remain in Richmond until further orders."

Prescott saluted and went out, glad to get into the free air again. He
did not envy the responsibility of a president in war time, whether the
president of a country already established or of one yet tentative. He
hurried home, and it was his mother herself who responded to the sound
of the knocker--his mother, quiet, smiling and undemonstrative as of
old, but with an endless tenderness for him in the depths of her blue
eyes.

"Here I am again, mother, and unwounded this time," he cried after the
first greeting; "and I suppose that as soon as they hear of my arrival
all the Yankees will be running back to the North."

She smiled her quiet, placid smile.

"Ah, my son," she said, and from her voice he could not doubt her
seriousness, "I'm afraid they will not go even when they hear of your
arrival."

"In your heart of hearts, mother, you have always believed that they
would come into Richmond. But remember they are not here yet. They were
even closer than this before the Seven Days, but they got their faces
burned then for their pains."

They talked after their old custom, while Prescott ate his luncheon and
his mother gave him the news of Richmond and the people whom he knew. He
noticed often how closely she followed the fortunes of their friends,
despite her seeming indifference, and, informed by experience, he never
doubted the accuracy of her reports.

"Helen Harley is yet in the employ of Mr. Sefton," she said, "and the
money that she earns is, I hear, still welcome in the house of the
Harleys. Mr. Harley is a fine Southern gentleman, but he has found means
of overcoming his pride; it requires something to support his state."

"But what of Helen?" asked Prescott. He always had a feeling of
repulsion toward Mr. Harley, his sounding talk, his colossal vanity and
his selfishness.

"Helen, I think," said his mother, "is more of a woman than she used to
be. Her mind has been strengthened by occupation. You won't object,
Robert, will you, if I tell you that in my opinion both the men and
women of the South have suffered from lack of diversity and variety in
interests and ambitions. Her hair strand is fixed, like an executioner
cord knotted around her neck. The Malay does not move anymore.
In the other corner of the room backwards Likse depth is about
having a chair. Your legs are spread in the air to the ceiling. Your
calves look yellow from the black back Kalikohosen fallen. The yellow
face of the Chinese are wrong on the floor and seems like a lamp
shining through the dark blue painted room.

The blue jacket is from the left breast torn.

The head of a small glass pin flashes next to the nipple. Hardly a single
small drop of blood gathers slowly around the pinhead and solidifies
into a tiny red circle. Likse has Panulla with Malay strangles his own
hair, and the Chinese Panulla has a pin in the fight so deeply
stung in the chest that the heart of the needle met and until the
needle head was stuck in the flesh.

Likse are dead and Panulla The Malay gets progressively through the rigor
mortis an oblique expression, as if they were beggars.

Wagenrütteln The road shook the floor, legs outstretched and Likses
swing in the air, as whether the Chinese in the head standing practice.
strangles The Malay has one twisted himmelnden their eyes on the
legs of the Chinese in the air addressed.

The other eye looks like the opposite side of the window.

"Look, Likse! Now comes a monsoon storm, "grinned Panullas eyeball is
darkened and brownish beneath stormy sky, while her other eye, the
Indigo beschienen wall of the room, glowing blue.

Likses legs at the onset wippten storm wind that shook the house. It was
as cursed her mouth open, "Damn, I wash my children are still on the
roof to dry! The rain will do everything fortschwemmen. I must
run home. "And Likses legs shaking even livelier. Panulla but mocked
with their oblique view silent silence:" Thou wilt long can fidget!
By itself you never to Likse. Du bist ja doornail, by me, the Panulla,
killed before you knew it, you square the Chinese animal! The tiny glass
needle head incidentally fits you well in your nipple. "The Chinese
grinned with its toppled face, and her nostrils drove the rising
alcohol, which they had ausgeprustet, small bubbles live.

Panulla sparkled with her suspicious blue eyes:" I believe do you want
to breathe again, Likse!

"The first flash COATED Likses face still yellow, so that her wide open
mouth to the ears gloss seemed to laugh. Panullas on forehead formed
small glistening sweat beads, as if the idea of you still around in the
local prison, on their forehead skin under consideration and there
are crystallized, and this glittering thoughts again repeated the
conversation from last night, the Likse and Panulla here in the
detention room before sunrise had.

"The man must be able to kill," had the Malay instructive asserted.
"Who can not kill, death and insulted only half alive You see, Likse,
one half of the moon is once black and white once every month. So the
man must be Likse.

Like you on a pole two buckets on his shoulders on the street are wearing
and the two buckets on the rod must hold the balance, then balance of
life and death to the world pole.

Each part of the world wants its part of you. One must be able to live,
but we must also can kill.

Life and death to be learned. Stop it! I was once a rich man in my
room to bed. At midnight I awoke in the dark and saw a green light
by the Türbrett come. I thought, I still slept, and rubbed my eyes. The
light that is silently entered, I saw the shadow figure of a woman who
slipped inaudible, always surrounded the green light to my vanity.

She took my comb and combed so that their fiery hair. I clearly heard the
sparks crackle and saw the white head of the glowing ghost in the
mirror above the vanity. I recognized the woman at her mirror image.
She was a friend of me and had me in the room and used her love
to receive visits. She was quite obviously dead, and came from beyond
life, kept to her room, she was once a young man was murdered, she
then, as they say, the house has buried basement.

I understood their appearance until later and now know they made their
delicious murder memories voluptuous visits. Halbaufgerichtet in
bed I looked at her face in the mirror while they are still with my
comb combed. All items were in the room of her shape beschienen. I
received unprecedented excitement and glowing at the sight of the murderer
and the wall of light that they radiated, like my blood was drunk. I
dug my nails with anxiety and enjoyment into the throat of the sleeping
man at my side and crushed his larynx like a nut between my fingers.

The man suggested a few times around him. The green light of the fiery
ghost spins and disappeared through the Türbrett. It was dark in the room,
and the man next to me stood still. I moved my hands back from him. The
man did not anymore. I lit ten matches after each other. The first
match I saw that his jaw herunterhing him, the second I saw his eyes,
as he cooked white fish eye from the head quollen. Ten I always saw a
new piece of the Dead. The first five times I shivered, but the last
five times I enjoyed the dead man next to me like a delicious meal
of five dishes.

I wondered, that the killing was so entertaining, and I slept next to the
precious corpse satisfies a satisfied, as if the man would have lived.
In the morning I wanted with my trusted house servant, then my
passionate lover was the husband strangles the Basement buried.

Emilio grub, and I stood beside it and looked at. Hardly a foot deep was
Emilios shovel on a skeleton. We threw out the bones, dug deeper. Again
there was a skeleton underneath, and deeper still a skeleton. I am sure:
we would have dug further, the whole earth would be incompatible
with layers of human Enger Ippen filled, because all of the years had all
the centuries before us in the home, as probably in all the houses
in the city, murdered and buried murdered.

Previously, I was at every thunderstorm frightened. Now I fear no more
lightning. I felt the electric shock with a tickle in my fingers, as it
was when I was zappelnden larynx crushed. And when the lightning out
murder, I am excited, as if I am a wild bull would embrace. Gespenster
I see where I go and stand. All that ever murdered, a large, voluptuous,
and immortal family run day and night with closed doors and barred
windows, with each other.

I've never been more alone. I see the murderers of all time in mind
when I close the eyes. I look back and forth - all the blood that flowed,
and all the blood that is flowing. Whether I wake or sleep, it's all
one. I am with all the killings, which happened, and my blood lives
since then amused, like a herd of monkeys brünstige in my womb.

"The dead Panulla dripped in the silent self-talk to their old ideas,
still louder enjoyment, a long thread of saliva from the mouth .

Likse is still on the head. The thunder outside rubs on the house walls,
Likses and legs are not tired, high above the chair to rock, when she
replied to Panullas instruction: "Hei, Hö! I have now learned the killing.
And, I Likse, imagine me on the head before the pleasure of it. The killing
is a lot of funny stuff as the water sale.

And also you do not get all the spirits, you see, Panulla.

I still have a few drops in the nose. "Likses nostrils drove a few last
big bubble, which zersprangen.

Then mimic the call of the dead aborted.

The door opened, and the astonished police found the corpses of two
women, one as a dislocated puppet thrown in the corner, the other like a
headless standing Akrobatin fallen from the chair.

Nobody dared during the storm into the room to enter and dead to fetch.
The police remained rigid under the door, as spectators in front
of a stage.

Only the monsoon bursts, which outside the city such as murder Brenner
raced, ran rotfeurig through the window and around the two corpses
around.

Großtropfiger Banished rain on the earth proposes, you are under the trees
in the thunder rushing moves. Thunder and lightning and rain, as their
lives happy and free! heard and met but a prisoner longing cry!
The darkness is not from the things out one early evening sneaks around
the house, He removes the color from your cheeks And hang thee
by his pallor.

Maibäume are in gebückt rain, mountains full steaming clouds blow your
chest is dull as the evening depressed.

The darkness is not from the things out, your face glows alone knows
And also looks like the rigid mask of grief.

A small mask over the world in humble grass lives a small mask over the
world with ease, ladybirds, the wings on the ceiling painted like
colorful faces wear, small beetles, focusing on the highest grasses
dare, And to be fair with many legs forward plague; Small hemispheres,
the other half after they ask.

All races and have their love erjagen And bear their tiny novels,
without complaining too loud.

Chimera chimera rode the storm tonight at the house, you came on a
wild rattle worm, the pressing of a whole landscape, the pious
soul of summer.

As defined by the geschloßnen doors and walls rode Hob the house on
their hands and took it with. chimera carried it with Gebraus in
distant latitudes, and also in foreign distant times she wore my house.
As a ferry floated it through the centuries, And laughingly saw
I love it with my out, but there was nothing in the world, nothing
that surprised us. The sunset at Seta A Japanese Winter at Lake Biwa is
not as cold and not as snowy as the most German winter, but there
is often a white fußhoch bark at the edge of lake snow on the roofs
of houses and in the forks of trees. Sea and sky are then wrapped in
the winter haze. The lake is like a tent in the dark fog of smoke, and
swarms of insects such as white the snow to come. Your kreiselnder dance
in the wind in winter is the only life on the lake whose mirror is blind
to the sailing no shows, which are cut reed fields, and a desert
of gray basalt resembles.

The Japanese wear white in the season three to four quilted gray and
brown silk dress on top of each other. They know no ovens. Only a small
Kohlenglut in a brass basin hingehaltenen warms the fingertips. But
the Japanese have much self-heat in it. They are accustomed to the
movement of air in open-air range, light bamboo wood cottage behind paper
thin walls and paper discs, dressed in the other three seasons in airy
silk and crepe fabrics and wrapped in a comfortable dressing gown
costume, the members of leeway to be self-motion. So they are a
healthy, warm-blooded people remained. The soul of the Japanese is just
as warm-blooded like their cleanliness, gutgelüfteten paper and empty
rooms. No furniture pieces are in their rooms, the clean straw
mat floor of the chamber must replace all the furniture. It provides
tables, chairs, sofa and armchair that is handmade thick, made of thin,
fine mesh tube mat is pliable, slightly elastic, and you can only
it with stockings, shoes never enter.

In these empty chambers, whose walls slightly tinted bamboo straw
color, paper or yellowish mehlweißes natural timbers show highlights
the human face like a portrait on undisturbed background, and the
gestures of people in those empty chambers are in the smallest movements
and keep your important Reminder stamped as lettering on a white paper.
As a natural colored room decorations are in the open sliding the
views of the maigrünen, yellow summer, autumn and winter-brown
landscape blue, the air passing birds, clouds and wandering people.
Involuntarily favor the empty, colorless chambers, the love of colorful
outside world. The world, which always appears in the doorway, where
a sliding door which opens up in an empty room is twice as lively as a
landscape or person who comes to visit, each man becomes a living
picture, if he is to you the emptiness of the hallway between the
blank walls of sets.

One can easily think that all the landscape charms and boost
domestic residents as important as a European housewife furniture
pieces. In the empty chambers of Seta on Lake Biwa is the sunset in front
of the doors to Seta has become a celebrity, and the sunset from Seta
have seen, is like honey to the poorest and the promises you have after
long years of a gentle death. - In Seta lived the impoverished wife of
a nobleman. Her husband was in the war against the Europeans have fallen,
as their two sons. This woman traveled frequently in the summer or in
spring for cherry blossom period after Kyoto or Nara, or the pilgrimage
after the holy temples of Nikko, in order to pray in the temples,
holy places of her husband and two sons to be closer. In Kyoto , in the
temple of five thousand Kriegsgenien, are in the ten long rows per five
hundred upright golden gods. Each God has twenty to thirty arms, swinging
swords and spears, and they say: once Kyoto should be attacked by enemies
and with the highest need, then take five thousand gods from the long
wooden temple hall and the old imperial city to defend. In these
Temple was the widowed wife prefers, where she met her husband in
prayer if it before the five thousand gods niederkniete pictures,
he spoke in her ear like a living.

The fiery red and dark windowless Lackhalle, in them five thousand golden
gods only by the huge open doors were illuminated, the widow was an
exciting feeling pleasant.

If they have a hundred thousand gold spears and swords peaks looked,
she believed a war against turmoil to see. Of the ten rows of the gods
is always a higher number after the other, so that you are facing a
mountain of lances, sword tips, golden arms, and golden halo is, as
you poured golden gods against hordes descend. When the woman again one
day in prayer wobble left the hall, she saw outside on the Bretterweg,
on the hundred foot long hall entlangführt, is a man who, as the
Japanese often do here in archery practiced.

The man strikingly resembled her dead husband. At one end of the
Bretterwegs was the shooter with the old-fashioned, big man bow, at
the other end of the Bretterwegs the white disc was affixed, and
the whole temple buzzed along the length of the arrow shooting ends.
Yet now the general rifle in Japan is to practice some Japanese still
a pleasure in archery, and especially the Temple of Bretterweg at five
thousand Kriegsgenien a very good training in Kyoto. The woman trembled
before agitation, when she saw the shooter, the faithful reflection of
her deceased husband was.

My eye had an irresistible, passionate expression, and her whole little
body was like a piece of magnetic iron and pulled the man after that, it
seems.
He held out his hand and the great mountaineer enclosed it in an iron
grasp. Then Wood dismounted, threw his bridle over his arm and said:

"S'pose we go along together for awhile?"

They walked a minute or two in silence, the General running his fingers
nervously through his thick black beard.

"See here, Prescott," he said at last, "you've spoke plain to me an'
I'll do the same to you. You wished me success with Miss Harley. Why, I
thought once that you stood in the way of me or any other man."

"Not so, General; you credit me with far more attractions than I have,"
replied Prescott deliberately. "Miss Harley and I were children together
and you know that is a tie. She likes me, I am sure, but nothing more.
And I--well I admire her tremendously, but----"

He hesitated and then stopped. The mountaineer gave him a sudden keen
glance and laughed softly.

"There's somebody else?" he said.

Prescott was silent but the mountaineer was satisfied.

"See here, Prescott," he exclaimed with great heartiness. "Let's wish
each other success."

Their hands closed again in a firm grasp.

"There's that man Sefton," resumed the mountaineer, "but I'm not so much
afraid of him as I was of you. He's cunnin' and powerful, but I don't
think he's the kind of man women like. He kinder gets their teeth on
edge. They're afraid of him without admirin' his strength. There's two
kinds of strong men: the kind that women are afraid of an' like and the
kind that they're afraid of an' don't like; an' I think Sefton falls
into the last class."

Prescott's liking for his companion increased, and mingled with it was a
growing admiration wholly aside from his respect for him as a soldier.
He was showing observation or intuition of a high order. The General's
heart was full. He had all of the mountaineer's reserve and taciturnity,
but now after years of repression and at the touch of real sympathy his
feelings overflowed.

"See here, Prescott," he said abruptly, "I once thought it was wrong for
me to love Helen Harley--the difference between us is so great--and
maybe I think so yet, but I'm goin' to try to win her anyhow. I'm just
that deep in love, and maybe the good God will forgive me, because I
can't help it. I loved that girl the first time I ever set eyes on her;
I wasn't asked about it, I just had to."

"There is no reason why you should not go ahead and win her," said the
other, warmly.

"Prescott," continued the mountaineer, "you don't know all that I've
been."

"It's nothing dishonest, that I'd swear."

"It's not that, but look where I started. I was born in the mountains
back there, an' I tell you we weren't much above the wild animals that
live in them same mountains. There was just one room to our log
house--one for father, mother and all of us. I never was taught nothin'.
I didn't learn to read till I was twenty years old and the big words
still bother me. I went barefoot six months every year till I was a man
grown. Why, my cavalry boots pinch me now."

He uttered the lamentation of the boots with such tragic pathos that
Prescott smiled, but was glad to hide it in the darkness.

"An' I don't know nothin' now," resumed the mountaineer sadly. "When I
go into a parlour I'm like a bear in a cage. If there's anythin' about
to break, I always break it. When they begin talkin' books and pictures
and such I don't know whether they are right or wrong."

"You are not alone in that."

"An' I'm out of place in a house," continued the General, not noticing
the interruption. "I belong to the mountains an' the fields, an' when
this war's over I guess I'll go back to 'em. They think somethin' of me
now because I can ride an' fight, but war ain't all. When it's over
there'll be no use for me. I can't dance an' I can't talk pretty, an'
I'm always steppin' on other peoples' feet. I guess I ain't the timber
they make dandies of."

"I should hope not," said Prescott with emphasis. He was really stirred
by the big man's lament, seeing that he valued so much the little things
that he did not have and so little the great things that he did have.

"General," he said, "you never shirked a battle and I wouldn't shirk
this contest either. If I loved a woman I'd try to win her, and you
won't have to go back to the mountains when this war is over. You've
made too great a name for that. We won't give you up."

Wood's eyes shone with satisfaction and gratitude.

"Do you think so?" he asked earnestly.

"I haven't a doubt of it," replied Prescott with the utmost sincerity.
"If fortune was unkind to you in the beginning nature was not so. You
may not know it, but I think that women consider you rather good to look
at."

Thus they talked, and in his effort to console another Robert forgot
some of his own pain. The simple, but, on the whole, massive character
of Wood appealed to him, and the thought came with peculiar force that
what was lacking in Helen Harley's nature the tougher fiber of the
mountaineer would supply.

Philine, one of their least-noise installations, however, the two girls
are not in decent positions on the couch beaten, others attracted
by the noise gloating. Madame Melina recited some sublime poetry, and
her husband, the noise is not very lovable was started on the
poor preparation of the punch to scold, assured that he is a very
different set Fest understand, and was most recently, as Laertes bade
silence always coarser and louder, so that those without a long time to
remember him the shards of the cup to his head and threw a little
noise is not increased.

Meanwhile, the crowd herbeigekommen guard and demanded entry into
the house to be. William, from reading very heated, whether he drank
little, had enough to do to Beihülfe with the people of the landlord
with money and good words to satisfy the members of society in their
unfortunate circumstances at home to create.

He threw himself, when he returned, overpowered by sleep, full of
resentment unausgekleidet on the bed, and resembled nothing of the
unpleasant sensation, as he the other morning eyes and düsterm look
at the devastation of the last day, the garbage and the bad effects
common sense, a witty, lively and well-poets work had spawned II.

Paper, 11 Chapter Eilftes After a brief chapter concerns he immediately
called the landlord over and let both the damage as the mine on his
bill.

At the same time he heard not without annoyances that Laertes of
his horse yesterday at the Hereinreiten been attacked in such a way
that is likely how to say, sly, and that the blacksmith little hope
to give its rise.

Philine A Greeting from which she made him her window zuwinkte, on the
other hand, staggered him again in a serene state, and he went immediately
into the next shop, to her a small gift that he agrees with it against
the powder-knife was still guilty, buy, and we must confess that
he was not within the limits of a counter-proportioned gift.

He bought it not just a very cute pair of earrings, but this took
a hat and scarf, and some other trifles, which he described the
first day it was wasteful to throw away look.

Madame Melina, who just as he gave his gifts to watch was examined before
the tables with an opportunity to him very seriously about the
feeling for this girl to talk to, and he was so surprised when he
was nothing less than these allegations deserve thought.

"I think that the Secretary or anybody else should go slow with this
Yankee girl," said Redfield. "Who is she--and what is she? Where did she
come from? She drifted in with the army after the battles in the
Wilderness and that's all we know."

"It's enough," said Garvin; "because it makes a delightful mystery which
but adds to the 'Beautiful Yankee's' attractions. The Secretary is far
gone there. I happen to know that he is to take her to the President's
reception to-morrow night."

Prescott started. He was glad now that he had not humbled himself.

"At any rate," said Redfield, "Mr. Sefton can't mean to marry her--an
unknown like that; it must be something else."

Prescott felt hot pincers grip him around the heart, and a passion that
he could not control flamed to his brain. He strode forward and put his
hand heavily on the Member's shoulder.

"Are you speaking of Miss Catherwood?" he demanded.

"I am," replied Redfield, throwing off the heavy hand. "But what
business is that of yours?"

"Simply this; that she is too good and noble a woman to be spoken of
slightingly by you. Such remarks as you have just made you repeat at
your risk."

Redfield made an angry reply and there were all the elements of a fierce
encounter; but Raymond interfered.

"Redfield," he said, "you are wrong, and moreover you owe all of us an
apology for speaking in such a way of a lady in our presence. I fully
indorse all that Captain Prescott says of Miss Catherwood--I happen to
have seen instances of her glorious unselfishness and sacrifice, and I
know that she is one of God's most nearly perfect women."

"And so do I," said Winthrop, "and I," "and I," said the others.
Redfield saw that the crowd was unanimously against him and frowned.

"Oh, well, perhaps I spoke hastily and carelessly," he said. "I
apologize."

Raymond changed the talk at once.

"When do you think Grant will advance again?" he asked.

"Advance?" replied Winthrop hotly. "Advance? Why, he can't advance."

"But he came through the Wilderness."

"If he did he lost a hundred thousand men, more than Lee had altogether,
and now he's checkmated."

"He'll never see Richmond unless he comes to Libby," said Redfield
coarsely.

"I'm not so sure," said Raymond gravely. "Whatever we say to the people
and however we try to hold up their courage, we ought not to conceal the
facts from ourselves. The ports of the Confederacy are sealed up by the
Yankee cruisers. We have been shattered down South and here we are
blockaded in Richmond and Petersburg. It takes a cartload of our money
to buy a paper collar and then it's a poor collar. When I bring out the
next issue of my newspaper--and I don't know when that will be--I shall
say that the prospects of the Confederacy were never brighter; but I
warn you right now, gentlemen, that I shall not believe a single one of
my own words."

"Said the policeman ... "None? - What is your name? "Tonio Kröger answered
him." Is that true? "Asked the policeman, reckte on suddenly and opened
his nostrils, as far as he could ..." Absolutely true, "replied Tonio
Kröger. "What are you doing?"

Tonio Kröger gulped down and identified with a fixed voice business is.
- Mr.

Seehaase lifted his head and looked curiously into his face upwards.

"Hm!" Said the policeman. "And you say they are not identical to the
individual named by a -" He said "the individual" and then spelled out
the paper buntbeschriebenen a very intricate and romantic name,
from the sounds of various mixed breeds seemed adventurous and Tonio
Kröger In the next moment had forgotten. "- What," he continued,
"of unknown parents and indefinite responsibility for various fraud
and other misconduct by the Munich police and is likely to escape
to Denmark is in?"

I do not just, "said Tonio Kröger nervous and made a motion with
the shoulders. - This called out a certain impression.

"How?

Ach so, na doubt, "said the policeman. "But that you also do not record,"
Mr Seehaase lay appeasement to the funds.

"The whole thing is a formality," said he, "nothing more! You must
remember that the officers only doing his duty.

If you could somehow legitimize ...

A paper ...

"All remained silent. Should it matter to an end by making it visible
there by Seehaase Lord opened, that he is not a con man of indeterminate
jurisdiction was not a Gypsy by birth in the green car, but the son
of Consul Kroeger, from the family of Kröger? No, he had no desire to
do so. And these were men of the bourgeois order is not in fact
a little in the law? To some, he was quite satisfied with them ...
"No chance there," replied Prescott, with a light laugh.

"Why not?"

"Miss Catherwood would scorn a humble individual like myself. The
'Beautiful Yankee' looks far higher. She will be escorted to-night by
the brilliant, the accomplished, the powerful and subtle gentleman, the
Honourable James Sefton."

"You surprise me!" said his mother, and her look was indeed full of
astonishment and inquiry, as if some plan of hers had gone astray.

"I have heard the Secretary's name mentioned once or twice in connection
with hers," she said, "but I did not know that his attentions had
shifted completely from Helen Harley. Men are indeed changeable
creatures."

"Are you just discovering that, at your age, mother?" asked Prescott
lightly.

"I believe Lucia Catherwood too noble a woman to love a man like James
Sefton," she said.

"Why, what do you know of Miss Catherwood?"

His mother did not answer him, and presently Prescott went to the
reception, but early as he was, Colonel Harley, the two editors and
others were there before him. Colonel Harley, as Raymond termed it, was
"extremely peacocky." He wore his most gorgeous raiment and in addition
he was clothed about with vanity. Already he was whispering in the ear
of Mrs. Markham, who had renewed her freshness, her youth and her
liveliness.

"If I were General Markham," said Raymond cynically, "I'd detail a guard
of my most faithful soldiers to stand about my wife."

"Do you think she needs all that protection?" asked Winthrop.

"Well, no, _she_ doesn't need it, but it may save others," replied
Raymond with exceeding frankness.

Winthrop merely laughed and did not dispute the comment. The next
arrival of importance was that of Helen Harley and General Wood. Colonel
Harley frowned, but his sister's eyes did not meet his, and the look of
the mountaineer was so lofty and fearless that he was a bold man indeed
who would have challenged him even with a frown. Helen was all in white,
and to Prescott she seemed some summer flower, so pure, so snowy and so
gentle was she. But the General, acting upon Prescott's advice, had
evidently taken his courage in his hands and arrayed himself as one who
hoped to conquer. His gigantic figure was enclosed for the first time
since Prescott had known him in a well-fitting uniform, and his great
black mane of hair and beard had been trimmed by one who knew his
business. The effect was striking and picturesque. Prescott remembered
to have read long ago in a child's book of natural history that the
black-maned lion was the loftiest and boldest of his kind, and General
Wood seemed to him now to be the finest of the black-maned lions.

There was a shade of embarrassment in the manner of Helen Harley when
she greeted Prescott. She, too, had recollections; perhaps she had
fancied once, like Prescott, that she loved when she did not love. But
her hesitation was over in a moment and she held out her hand warmly.

"We heard of your return from the South," she said. "Why haven't you
been to see us?"

Prescott made some excuse about the pressure of duty, and then, bearing
his friend's interest in mind, spoke of General Wood, who was now in
conversation some distance away with the President himself.

"I believe that General Wood is to-night the most magnificent figure in
the South," he said. "It is well that Mr. Davis greets him warmly. He
ought to. No man under the rank of General Lee has done more for the
Confederacy."

His voice had all the accent of sincerity and Helen looked up at him,
thanking him silently with her eyes.

"Then you like General Wood," she said.

"I am proud to have him as a friend and I should dislike very much to
have him as an enemy."

Richmond in its best garb and with its bravest face was now arriving
fast, and Prescott drifted with some of his friends into one of the
smaller parlours. When he returned to the larger room it was crowded,
and many voices mingled there. But all noise ceased suddenly and then in
the hush some one said: "There she comes!" Prescott knew who was meant
and his anger hardened in him.

Miss Catherwood was looking unusually well, and even those who had
dubbed her "The Beautiful Yankee" added another superlative adjective. A
spot of bright red burned in either cheek and she held her head very
high. "How haughty she is!" Prescott heard some one say. Her height,
her figure, her look lent colour to the comment.

Her glance met Prescott's and she bowed to him, as to any other man whom
she knew, and then with the Secretary beside her, obviously proud of the
lady with whom he had come, she received the compliments of her host.

Lucia Catherwood did not seem to be conscious that everybody was looking
at her, yet she knew it well and realized that the gaze was a singular
mixture of curiosity, like and dislike. It could not well be otherwise,
where there was so much beauty to inspire admiration or jealousy and
where there were sentiments known to be different from those of all the
others present. A mystery as tantalizing as it was seductive, together
with a faint touch of scandal which some had contrived to blow upon her
name, though not enough really to injure her as yet, sufficed to give a
spice to the conversation when she was its subject.

The President engaged her in talk for a few minutes. He himself, clad in
a grayish-brown suit of foreign manufacture, was looking thin and old,
the slight stoop in his shoulders showing perceptibly. But he brightened
up with Southern gallantry as he talked to Miss Catherwood. He seemed to
find an attraction not only in her beauty and dignity, but in her
opinions as well and the ease with which she expressed them. He held her
longer than any other guest, and Mr. Sefton was the third of three,
facile, smiling, explaining how they wished to make a convert of Miss
Catherwood and yet expected to do so. Here in Richmond, surrounded by
truth and with her eyes open to it, she must soon see the error of her
ways; he, James Sefton, would vouch for it.

"I have no doubt, Mr. Sefton, that you will contribute to that end,"
said the President.

She was the centre of a group presently, and the group included the
Secretary, Redfield, Garvin and two or three Europeans then visiting in
Richmond. Prescott, afar in a corner of the room, watched her covertly.
She was animated by some unusual spirit and her eyes were brilliant; her
speech, too, was scintillating. The little circle sparkled with
laughter and jest. They undertook to taunt her, though with good humour,
on her Northern sympathies, and she replied in like vein, meeting all
their arguments and predicting the fall of Richmond.

"Then, Miss Catherwood, we shall all come to you for a written
protection," said Garvin.

"Oh, I shall grant it," she said. "The Union will have nothing to fear
from you."

But Garvin, unabashed at the general laugh on himself, returned to the
charge. Prescott wandered farther away and presently was talking to Mrs.
Markham, Harley being held elsewhere by bonds of courtesy that he could
not break. Thus eddies of the crowd cast these two, as it were, upon a
rock where they must find solace in each other or not at all.

Mrs. Markham was a woman of wit and beauty. Prescott often had remarked
it, but never with such a realizing sense. She was young, graceful, and
with a face sufficiently supplied with natural roses, and above all keen
with intelligence. She wore a shade of light green, a colour that
harmonized wonderfully with the green tints that lurked here and there
in the depths of her eyes, and once when she gazed thoughtfully at her
hand Prescott noticed that it was very white and well shaped. Well,
Harley was at least a man of taste.

Mrs. Markham was pliable, insinuating and complimentary. She was
smitten, too, by a sudden mad desire. Always she was alive with coquetry
to her finger tips, and to-night she was aflame with it. But this quiet,
grave young man hitherto had seemed to her unapproachable. She used to
believe him in love with Helen Harley; now she fancied him in love with
some one else, and she knew his present frame of mind to be vexed
irritation. Difficult conquests are those most valued, and here she saw
an opportunity. He was so different from the others, too, that, wearied
of easy victories, all her fighting blood was aroused.

Mrs. Markham was adroit, and did not begin by flattering too much nor by
attacking any other woman. She was quietly sympathetic, spoke guardedly
of Prescott's services in the war, and made a slight allusion to his
difference in temperament from so many of the careless young men who
fought without either forethought or present thought.

Prescott found her presence soothing; her quiet words smoothed away his
irritation, and gradually, without knowing why, he began to have a
better opinion of himself. He wondered at his own stupidity in not
having noticed before what an admirable woman was Mrs. Markham, how much
superior to others and how beautiful. He saw the unsurpassed curve of
her white arm where the sleeve fell back, and there were wonderful green
tints lurking in the depths of her eyes. After all, he could not blame
Harley--at least, for admiration.

They passed into one of the smaller rooms and Prescott's sense of
satisfaction increased. Here was one woman, and a woman of beauty and
wit, too, who could appreciate him. They sat unnoticed in a corner and
grew confidential. Once or twice she carelessly placed her hand upon his
coat sleeve, but let it rest there only for a moment, and on each
occasion he noticed that the hand and wrist were entirely worthy of the
arm. It was a small hand, but the fingers were long, tapering and very
white, each terminating in a rosy nail. Her face was close to his, and
now and then he felt her light breath on his cheek. A thrill ran through
his blood. It was very pleasant to sit in the smile of a witty and
beautiful woman.

He looked up; Lucia Catherwood was passing on the arm of a Confederate
general and for a moment her eyes flashed fire, but afterward became
cold and unmoved. Her face was blank as a stone as she moved on, while
Prescott sat red and confused. Mrs. Markham, seeming not to notice,
spoke of Miss Catherwood, and she did not make the mistake of
criticizing her.

"The 'Beautiful Yankee' deserves her name," she said. "I know of no
other woman who could become a veritable Helen of Troy if she would."

"If she would," repeated Prescott; "but will she?"

"That I do not know."

"But I know," said Prescott recklessly; "I think she will."

Mrs. Markham did not reply. She was still the sympathetic friend,
disagreeing just enough to incite triumphant and forgiving opposition.

"Even if she should, I do not know that I could wholly blame her," she
said. "I fancy that it is not easy for any woman of great beauty to
concentrate her whole devotion on one man. It must seem to her that she
is giving too much to an individual, however good he may be."

"Do you feel that way about it yourself, Mrs. Markham?"

"I said a woman of great beauty."

"It is the same."

Her serenity was not at all disturbed and her hand rested lightly on his
arm once more.

"You are a foolish boy," she said. "When you pay compliments, do not pay
them in such blunt fashion."

"I could not help it; I had too good an excuse."

She smiled slightly.

"Southern men are clever at flattery," she said, "and the Northern men,
they say, are not; perhaps on that account those of the North are more
sincere."

"But we of the South often mean what we say, nevertheless."

Had Prescott been watching her face, he might have seen a slight change
of expression, a momentary look of alarm in the green depths of the
eyes--some one else was passing--but in another instant her face was as
calm, as angelic as ever.

She spoke of Helen Harley and her brave struggle, the evident devotion
of General Wood, and the mixed comment with which it was received.

"Will he win her?" asked Prescott.

"I do not know; but somebody should rescue her from that selfish old
father of hers. He claims to be the perfect type of the true Southern
gentleman--he will tell you so if you ask him--but if he is, I prefer
that the rest of the world should judge the South by a false type."

"But General Wood is not without rivals," said Prescott. "I have often
thought that he had one of the most formidable kind in the Secretary,
Mr. Sefton."

He awaited her answer with eagerness. She was a woman of penetrating
mind and what she said would be worth considering. Regarding him again
with that covert glance, she saw anxiety trembling on his lips and she
replied deliberately:

"The Secretary himself is another proof why a woman of beauty should not
concentrate all her devotion on one man. You have seen him to-night and
his assiduous attention to another woman. Captain Prescott, all men are
fickle--with a few exceptions, perhaps."

She gave him her most stimulating glance, a look tipped with flame,
which said even to a dull intelligence--and Prescott's was not--that he
was one of the few, the rare exceptions. As her talk became more
insinuating her hand touched his arm and rested there ten seconds where
it had rested but five before. Again he felt her breath lightly on his
cheek and he noticed how finely arched and seductive was the curve of
her long yellow lashes. He had felt embarrassed and ashamed when Lucia
Catherwood saw him there in an attitude of devotion to Mrs. Markham, but
that sensation was giving way to stubbornness and anger. If Lucia should
turn to some one else why might not he do the same?

Yielding himself to the charms of a perfect face, a low and modulated
voice and a mind that never mistook flippancy and triviality for wit, he
met her everywhere on common ground, and she wondered why she had not
seen the attractions of this grave, quiet young man long before! Surely
such a conquest--and she was not certain yet that it was achieved--was
worth a half-dozen victories of the insipid and over-easy kind.

An hour later Prescott was with Lucia for a few minutes, and although no
one else was within hearing, their conversation was formal and
conventional to the last degree. She spoke of the pleasure of the
evening, the brave show made by the Confederacy despite the pressure of
the Northern armies, and her admiration for a spirit so gallant. He paid
her a few empty compliments, told her she was the shining light among
lesser lights, and presently he passed out. He noticed, however, that
she was, indeed, as he had said so lightly, the star of the evening. The
group around her never thinned, and not only were they admiring, but
were anxious to match wits with her. Life can not be buried to infinity,
and the life is not dead. Even in death is a shock wave. The country has
its mountains and hills, the sea's waves and waves, the sky's clouds and
its smoothness. And the past life has to go and return. This evening I
was unconsciously become clear: the dead man was to his mother and
his father returned transfigured.

He was resurrected again in the rooms of the house. The young man stood
next to us and wanted us to an expression of his transcendental type.
His death wave, space-less space than the waves that we feel alive, in
front of us wanted to embody. This festive shiver touched me yet, as the
grieving wife of the house and said to me on the guest hinted that apart
from me still in the room had remained "They do not yet?

I thought tonight we wanted a little music. You know, there is no sound
for months in this House have been played. "The young man she called
to play, was a very fine, serious and artistically skilled piano player.
He then played us good works of great composers before, but soon took
his leave. However, I felt a tension finds an expectation, a
yearning for the embodiment of supernatural solemnity of death, to me in
these rooms are not left. The two piano lamps still burned at open
wings. Not far from me at a young ladies' desk, the photograph of the
young deceased.

Weißverschleierten Outside the windows of the house rejected the silence
of the dark garden, the dark forest. I knew the night was
outside schneelos landscape and bleak winter. It was February, and
the grave of the dead man was away somewhere in one of the great
metropolitan cemeteries. And that grave differed in none of the winter
earth, and in none of the other millions of grave mounds, throughout
the world, year, year hervorwachsen in the summer greenery as the forests
and meadows and in the winter seem like leaving the forests and meadows.
The spirit of the dead but alive in summer and winter seasons in a
transfigured that we do not know on earth, but to us herabsenkt if a
state wants us dead.

When mixture of icy waves of the dead and the heat waves of our heart
to those schauersüße mood in which we feel shivering, the dead man is
resurrected and returns transfigured with us. I ventured under the spell
of this mood, the question to the grieving mother, whether
they not a song of her deceased son, or sing a song he wants to play. She
smiled sadly and went to the wing. But as if to protect themselves
from the same desire to have felt drawn to the piano, it seemed to me
this is joyful in the hallway, from a subdued joy surrounded. Alone
in the house, she would perhaps not dare, now before the father of
the deceased's songs and sounds to life. As the mourners between the
two bright lights on the disguised shiny black grand piano sat encased
in black and her slim shoulders of the snow-white Tüllvorhängen abhoben,
perpendicular to the windows behind her herabhingen because I was
not yet certain whether life from the wing would awaken.

I was still thinking that those clad in deep mourning mother's son
is still buried.

The grand piano in front of her was me how to glossy black coffin in
which they, as I seemed to settle had to sob to cry and buried. I did not
know whether the mourners was already ripe, the dead rise to leave in
that transfiguration, in which I, as a stranger he already has felt the
premises. It would not surprise me, if still severely shaken after the
first shades of the game stopped and her face buried in his hands
would have.

But she was ready to receive the returning. With a great courage, as
they exceed the threshold even joyfully from life to death, drew
them to the wings, the old well-lute, with only her intimate feelings
of the lonely young son, the young male lust and male young doubt
that once it had struggled .

And when one of his last songs sang, it happened before my eyes the
wonderful: the mature beautiful woman sang in the ways of her teenage
son to our own earliest youth back.

And it was Mrs. girlish face, all the disappointments bar. girlishly
believer and trusting the eyes were at the initial and inhalation of
music. The Vergrämte transformed itself under the transfiguration
of the dead. And I saw the mother and son on two big, big überweltlich,
young horses, each of which the epitome of a destiny seemed to be on
the sea of infinity hinreiten.

So I see there both today and in eternity as two riders on the immense
ocean at the edge of the world. And if I am in new lessons and
in other areas will wiederbegegnen this woman, she is always for me the
pain of death girlishly transformed his mother, the , on the line
between life and death, living in the rapture auflebt than the Earth. Of
the selection in this volume is compiled from novels are "The Garden
without seasons," "In the blue light from Penang," "Likse and
Panulla", "The unbeerdigte father "and" includes animals, "the
novella collection" _Lingam_ "taken from" The Wild Geese in flight
Katata look, "" The sunset at Seta, "" The Evening Bell from
Mijderatempel hear, "and" snow on the evening Hirayama see "the
book" _The eight faces on Biwasee_, "" The Hour of the Mouse ","
Himalaya darkness "and" Two riders on the sea "to the" _Geschichten
from the four Winden_ ". »The lyres of lust" is a piece of the great
seal »_The Erde_ winged," the rest of the poems are taken from the
band selection poetry »_Lusamgärtlein_", "_The Schlaf_ white", "_In
songs are sunk in Laub_", "_Weltspuk_" »_Des Great War Not_." * *
* * * From _Max Dauthendey_ also appeared in Albert Langen: _Romane:
_ ideas from my years of The Spirit of my Father robbery people
_Novellen: _ stories from the four winds, the eight faces in the
Lake Biwa lingam _Gedichtbücher: _ The Winged Earth Lusamgärtlein
In songs are sunk in the foliage Weltspuk The white sleep the eternal
wedding - The burning of the Great War calendar Bänkelsang Not
Balzer of the courtship songs selected from seven books _Dramen: _
The gadgets of The Dragon Empress Grauli The pagan Geilane _Werke
by Max Dauthendey_ _Romane_ ideas from my years of hiking Two volumes
_Dritte Auflage_ stapled 10 Mark, Mark _Rheinisch bound 16-Westfälische
Zeitung, Essen R. a.: _ This "thinking out of my traveling years"
is something unusual, something that has long been so delicious
maturity was no longer apparent, namely, the confession of a
significant person of the right moment to seize knew the years of
his rise to overlook ruhevoll and thankful attitude accountability
from the forces that formed him, and from the events that these
results are way marked.

The spirit of my father's records from a century buried _Dritte Auflage_
stapled 5 Mark 50 Pf, bound 8 Mark 50 Pf _The Day, Berlin: _ A small
miracle happened: a German artist, so far only a few familiar, has
written a book, to the delight of everyone, and yet without a
license to everyone's taste. ...

A Einsamer, suddenly a success of the book without having to surrender -
in truth, it's not a miracle? A poet recalls. It tells nothing but the
story of his father and his own youth ...

"But it reads like a novel!"

Human prey _Roman_ _Fünfte Auflage_ stapled 6 Mark 50 Pf, bound
9 Mark 50 Pf _Hamburgischer Correspondent: _ This poem is filled
with the aroma of virgin forests and tausendtönigen of songs. ...
Dauthendeys inexhaustible strength is his lyrical world feeling. His
lyrical painter eye - to more accurately express myself.

He makes it virtually every day brings new challenges. Coincidences
- both real and imaginary images migrant - be he too grandiose symbols
summarized. His language is soaked in hot sun rays. It is colorful and
beautifully as the skin of a Jaguar.

It is like a tropical forest, as this whole wild = tierra caliente =.
_Novellen_ lingam _Asiatische Novellen_ _Siebente Auflage_ stapled
3 Mark, hardcover 5 Mark 50 Pf _Frankfurter newspaper: _ Since the
Asian novels of Count Gobineau is not a book I encountered that the
peculiar magic of those narcotic exotic world so real could emanate
as the collection »_Lingam_" by Max Dauthendey.

The eight faces in the Lake Biwa _Japanische Liebesgeschichten_
_Elfte Auflage_ stapled 4 Mark 50 Pf bound 7 Mark 50 Pf _New Freie
Presse, Vienna: _ ...

The fine, rare art Dauthendeys succeeds, we all in this strange mental
life introduced.

And it is such a simple life in the quiet countryside, but all the
passions of the earth bergen, so simple and so complicated as the
reality.

Poems in prose, it is, as strange folk songs they sound like a greeting
from the distant world of longing.

Stories from the four winds _Fünfte Auflage_ stapled 5 Mark, bound 8
Mark _Leipziger Tagesblatt: _ ... The narrative humans, such a voice and
Fine - I find no other word - one so huge decent ethos, is visible
for me among all these stories, so that in the back almost all
memory equally strong attractive force reserve.

Just a few slight sketches, adventures of a night walk, a visit, a
dinner party, always the whole person and thus the whole world. And the
grotesque stories are full of gaiety in all goodness, full of a
laughter, not just a piece of existence bescheint, but always the
whole ...

Between all of love are a few novels in the sense of Boccaccio,
himself forward, but in a strictly closed Arabeske, - very decent
pieces of a still unwritten Nordic Decameron.

_Gedichtbücher_ Selected Songs of seven books with the portrait of the
poet _Fünfte Auflage_ stapled 1 Mark, hardcover 2 Mark _New Würzburger
newspaper: _ The little book is a gift, so full of miracles and
wonders how long I is not met.

Dauthendey is a master of language, a leader in new ways, he has an
imagination and lohende an image of strength titan good strength and
high character.

The winged _Ein earth song of love and wonder at seven Meere_ stapled
10 Mark, 15 stamps tied _The Present , Berlin: _ I think the book is a
lasting monument to our present culture. _Fremdenblatt, Vienna: _ "The
Winged Earth" is an enchanting world of singing and a momentum of
grandiose homage to one of the beloved poet, has performed.
Lusamgärtlein _Frühlingslieder from Franken_ stapled 2 Mark 50 Pf, bound
4 Mark 50 Pf _The time, Vienna: _ He is one of the greatest minstrel
who whispered in the German language, geseufzt, geschwärmt, sung,
gejubelt have.

However, a troubadour of yesteryear, he is not. No trace of Kniehosengeziertheit
of false sweetness is in him, no Geklimper untimely girrt instruments
in his verses. A young brausend temperament flushed them, and how the
ear to the melody, so has the eye to the colors bouquet happy. All the
flowers bear their real names, all things are determined in
accordance with reality.

The love transfigured him alone the world, he meets the world, teaches
him that they love to have.

Sunk in the songs in the foliage _Zweite Auflage_ stapled 2 Mark 50 Pf,
bound 4 Mark 50 Pf _Österreichische Observations: _ Max Dauthendeys
art emblazoned Now in summer tires.

Love is his nature and his work ... The diversity of his parables
has little to none anywhere so filled with the wonders of words
is his book.

Would the chaste chants ring out, they want into the ears of the people
and the souls say that the sources of German poetry still so lush
and lovely jump rushing as ever ...

Weltspuk _Lieder of Vergänglichkeit_ _Zweite Auflage_ stapled 2
Mark, bound 4 Mark 50 Pf _Nationalzeitung, Berlin: _ With this plant
crowns are Dauthendeys creation.

Almost no poem that you would not read twice. Each of beauty, bestrickend
with the sweetness of the sound, moving with the glow of feeling,
with inexhaustible wealth of images, delicious, always new comparisons.

_Lieder The white sleep of long stapled Nächte_ 2 Mark, bound 4
Mark Lloyd _Pester: _ In the collection of songs "The white sleep"
it schillert corridors of snow, branches, sun bleaching, fog Brauen,
all tone in tone, however, the wind blows all the organ pipes.

An immense life forebodes Dauthendey in this winter silence, and
his true desire is to reduce the large waiting nature.

The Coming is full of hope and promise. A Japanese woodcut or Whistler's
delicate symphonies in two colors are given to a word tissues
become transparent.

The eternal wedding The burning calendar _Zweite Auflage_ stapled
2 Mark, bound 4 Mark _Literarisches Echo: _ "The eternal marriage"
is the Song of Songs Dauthendeys, from one in whole of our literature
only embers of love.

The whole body of the beloved, her hand, her heart, he covered her
mouth with songs like kissing.

Bänkelsang by Balzer Balz tacked on 3 Mark, 5 Mark _Literarisches bound
Echo: _ The humor of the highest wisdom, with a cheerful despite
All gravity and all the evidence overcomes dark, makes the "Balzer
Bänkelsang of the courtship" to a classical work.

It has the Bänkelsang wrongly compared with Wilhelm Busch, it is much
warmer, colorful and poetic. Again, this work revolves around love, and
love to all the suffering I do not know when this book comforting
Balzers singing. The Great War Not _Zweite Auflage_ stapled 2 Mark,
bound 4 Mark _Tägliche Rundschau, Berlin: _ We must lyrical pencil
notes read as the diary of an expensive people, like the confession
of a heart, which is close to us and we now have the fate of brotherly
connected.

A few pieces but, like "From the great war is a shadow," "At home,
where the snowflakes are flying," "It's raining tears," are
unverwelkliche wreath of flowers in which the poet to Germany
Heldenmäler wound.

_Dramen_ Gimmicks The Empress of Drama in four acts, a prologue
and an epilogue _Zweite Auflage_ stapled 3 Mark, hardcover 5 Mark 50 Pf
_Leipziger Latest News: _ The design of these scenes, which are before
us the life of the empress Catherine I. scrolling of Russia is
significant, in detail often great. In each of the six sets reveals the
poet Dauthendey much dramatic force and dramatic imagination. The
characters are beautifully seen, along with the entire cultural and
historical milieu.

Grauli _Drama_ The Dragon 2 Mark stapled, bound 4 Mark _Berner
Confederation: _ Dauthendeys new opus takes us into a different, almost
magical world, far beyond the sea, in the desolate dwelling by lighthouse
keepers or on the deck of a sailing ship. And with great mood art
knows the poet's life on cliff meerumrauschter to describe, to draw
people who never had a flower blooming face, where only the sea to enjoy
the great quiet area, or the thundering waves, and the more foolish
or gespenstergläubig be.
When Prescott came in
Harley took another long draught and said to the crowd:

"I have a pretty bit of gossip for you, gentlemen."

"What is it?" asked Randolph, and all looked up, eager to hear any fresh
and interesting news.

"It's the story of the spy who was here last winter," replied Harley.
"The romance, rather, because that spy, as all of you know, was a woman.
The story will not down. It keeps coming up, although we have a great
war all about us, and I hear that the Government, so long on a blind
trial, has at last struck the right one."

"Indeed," said Randolph, with increased interest. "What is it? The
answer to that puzzle has always bothered me."

"They say that the spy was a woman of great beauty, and she found it
impossible to escape from Richmond until an officer of ours, yielding to
her claims, helped her through the lines. I'll wager that he took full
pay for his trouble."

"His honour against hers," said some one.

Harley laughed coarsely.

Prescott became deathly white. He would have fought a duel then with
Harley--on the instant. All the Puritan training given him by his mother
and his own civilized instincts were swept away by a sudden overwhelming
rush of passion.

His colour came back and none noticed its momentary loss, all eyes being
on Harley. Prescott glanced at Mr. Sefton, but the Secretary remained
calm, composed and smiling, listening to Harley with the same air of
interested curiosity shown by the others. Prescott saw it all with a
flash of intuition; the Secretary had given Harley a hint, just a vague
generalization, within the confines of truth, but without any
names--enough to make those concerned uneasy, but not enough to put the
power in any hands save those of the Secretary. Harley himself confirmed
this by continuing the subject, though somewhat uncertainly, as if he
were no longer sure of his facts.

It occurred to Prescott that he might borrow this man's own weapons and
fight him with the cold brain and craft that had proved so effective
against himself, Robert Prescott. But when he turned to look at the
Secretary he found Mr. Sefton looking at him. A glance that was a
mingling of fire and steel passed between the two; it was also a look
of understanding. Prescott knew and the Secretary saw that he knew. In
the bosom of James Sefton respect rose high for the young man whom he
had begun to hold rather cheap lately. His antagonist was entirely
worthy of him.

Harley rambled on. He looked uncertainly now and then at Prescott, as if
he believed him to be the traitorous officer and would provoke him into
reply; but Prescott's face was a perfect mask, and his manner careless
and indifferent. The suspicions of the others were not aroused, and
Harley was not well enough informed to go further; but his look whenever
it fell on Robert was full of hatred, and Prescott marked it well.

"What do you think of a fellow who would do such a thing?" asked Harley
at last.

"I've a pretty good opinion of him," said Raymond quietly.

"You have?" exclaimed Harley.

"I have," repeated Raymond; "and I'm willing to say it before a man high
in the Government, like Mr. Sefton here. Are all the powers of the
Confederate Government to be gathered for the purpose of making war on
one poor lone woman? Suppose we whip Grant first and bother about the
woman afterward. I think I'll write an editorial on the Government's
lack of chivalry--that is, I will when I get enough paper to print it
on, but I don't know when that will be. However, I'll keep it in mind
till that time arrives."

"I think you are wrong," said the Secretary smoothly, as one who
discusses ethics and not personalities. "This man had his duty to do,
and however small that duty may have been, he should have done it."

"You generalize, and since you are laying down a rule, you are right,"
said Raymond. "But this is a particular case and an exception. We owe
some duties to the feminine gender as well as to patriotism. The greater
shouldn't always be swallowed up in the lesser."

There was a laugh, and Winthrop suggested that, as they were talking of
the ladies, they return to them. On the way Prescott casually joined the
Secretary.

"Can I see you in the office to-morrow, Mr. Sefton?" he asked.

"Certainly," replied the Secretary. "Will three in the afternoon do?
Alone, I suppose?"

"Thank you," said Prescott. "Three in the afternoon and alone will do."

Both spoke quietly, but the swift look of understanding passed once
more. Then they rejoined the ladies.

Prescott had not spoken to Lucia Catherwood in the whole course of the
evening, but now he sought her. Some of the charm which Mrs. Markham so
lately had for him was passing; in the presence of Lucia she seemed less
fair, less winning, less true. His own conduct appeared to him in
another light, and he would turn aside from his vagrant fancy to the one
to whom his heart was yet loyal. But he found no chance to speak to her
alone. The club by spontaneous agreement had chosen to make her its
heroine that night, and Prescott was permitted to be one of the circle,
nothing more. As such she spoke to him occasionally as she would to
others--chance remarks without colour or emphasis, apparently directed
toward him because he happened to be sitting at that particular point,
and not because of his personality.

Prescott chafed and sought to better his position, wishing to have an
individuality of his own in her regard; but he could not change the
colourless rôle which she assigned him. So he became silent, speaking
only when some remark was obviously intended for him, and watched her
face and expression. He had always told himself that her dominant
characteristic was strength, power of will, endurance; but now as he
looked he saw once or twice a sudden droop, faint but discernible, as if
for a flitting moment she grew too weak for her burden. Prescott felt a
great access of pity and tenderness. She was in a position into which
no woman should be forced, and she was assailed on all sides by danger.
Her very name was at the mercy of the Secretary, and now Harley with his
foolish talk might at any time bring an avalanche down upon her. He
himself had treated her badly, and would help her if he could. He turned
to find Mrs. Markham at his elbow.

"We are going in to supper," she said, "and you will have to take me."

Thus they passed in before Lucia Catherwood's eyes, but she looked over
them and came presently with Raymond.

That was a lean supper--the kitchens of Richmond in the last year of the
war provided little; but Prescott was unhappy for another reason. He was
there with Mrs. Markham, and she seemed to claim him as her own before
all those, save his mother, for whom he cared most. General Wood and
Helen Harley were across the table, her pure eyes looking up with
manifest pleasure into the dark ones of the leader, which could shine so
fiercely on the battlefield but were now so soft. Once Prescott caught
the General's glance and it was full of wonder; intrigue and the cross
play of feminine purposes were unknown worlds to the simple mountaineer.

Prescott passed from silence to a feverish and uncertain gaiety, talking
more than any one at the table, an honour that he seldom coveted. Some
of his jests and epigrams were good and more were bad; but all passed
current at such a time, and Mrs. Markham, who was never at a loss for
something to say, seconded him in able fashion. The Secretary, listening
and looking, smiled quietly. "Gone to his head; foolish fellow," was
what his manner clearly expressed. Prescott himself saw it at last and
experienced a sudden check, remembering his resolve to fight this man
with his own weapons, while here he was only an hour later behaving like
a wild boy on his first escapade. He passed at once from garrulity to
silence, and the contrast was so marked that the glances exchanged by
the others increased.

Prescott was still taciturn when at a late hour he helped Mrs. Markham
into the phaeton and they started to her home. He fully expected that
Harley would overtake him when he turned away from her house and seek a
quarrel, but the fear of physical harm scarcely entered into his mind.
It was the gossip and the linking of names in the gossip that troubled
him.

Mrs. Markham sat as close to him as ever--the little phaeton had grown
no wider--but though he felt again her warm breath on his cheek, no
pulse stirred.

"Why are you so silent, Captain Prescott?" she asked. "Are you thinking
of Lucia Catherwood?"

"Yes," he replied frankly, "I was."

She glanced up at him, but his face was hidden in the darkness.

"She was looking very beautiful to-night," she said, "and she was
supreme; all the men--and must I say it, all of us women,
too--acknowledged her rule. But I do not wonder that she attracts the
masculine mind--her beauty, her bearing, her mysterious past, constitute
the threefold charm to which all of you men yield, Captain Prescott. I
wish I knew her history."

"It could be to her credit only," said Prescott.

She glanced up at him again, and now the moonlight falling on his face
enabled her to see it set and firm, and Mrs. Markham felt that there had
been a change. He was not the same man who had come with her to the
meeting of the club, but she was not a woman to relinquish easily a
conquest or a half-conquest, and she called to her aid all the art of a
strong and cultivated mind. She was bold and original in her methods,
and did not leave the subject of Lucia Catherwood, but praised her,
though now and then with slight reservations, letting fall the inference
that she was her good friend and would be a better one if she could.
Such use did she make of her gentle and unobtrusive sympathy that
Prescott felt his heart warming once more to this handsome and
accomplished woman.

"You will come to see me again?" she said at the door, letting a little
hand linger a few moments in his.

"I fear that I may be sent at once to the front."

"But if you are not you will come?" she persisted.

"Yes," said Prescott, and bade her good-night.


CHAPTER XXVII

THE SECRETARY AND THE LADY


The chief visitor to the little house in the cross street two days later
was James Sefton, the agile Secretary, who was in a fine humour with
himself and did not take the trouble to conceal it. Much that conduced
to his satisfaction had occurred, and the affairs that concerned him
most were going well. The telegrams sent by him from the Wilderness to a
trusty agent at an American seaport and forwarded thence by mail to
London and Paris had been answered, and the replies were of a nature
most encouraging. Moreover, the people here in Richmond in whose
fortunes he was interested were conducting themselves in a manner that
he wished. Therefore the Secretary was pleasant.

He was received by Lucia Catherwood in the little parlour where Prescott
had often sat. She was grave and pale, as if she suffered, and there was
no touch of warmth in the greeting that she gave the Secretary. But he
did not appear to notice it, although he inquired after the health of
herself and Miss Grayson, all in the manner of strict formality. She sat
down and waited there, grave and quiet, watching him with calm, bright
eyes.

The Secretary, too, was silent for a few moments, surveying the woman
who sat opposite him, so cool and so composed. He felt once more the
thrill of involuntary admiration that she always aroused in him.

"It is a delicate business on which I come to you, Miss Catherwood," he
said. "I wish to speak of Miss Harley and my suit there; it is not
prospering, as you know. Pardon me for speaking to you of such intimate
feelings. I know that it is not customary, but I have thought that you
might aid me."

"Was it for such a reason that you gave me a pass to Richmond and helped
me to come here?"

"Well, in part, at least; but I can say in my own defense, Miss
Catherwood, that I bore you no ill will. Perhaps, if the first phase of
the affair had never existed, I should have helped you anyhow to come to
Richmond had I known that you wished to do so."

"And how can I help you now?"

The Secretary shrugged his shoulders. He did not wish to say all that
was in his mind. Moreover, he sought to bring her will into subjection
to his. The personal sense that he was coming into contact with a mind
as strong as his own did not wholly please him, yet by a curious
contrariety this very feeling increased his admiration of her.

"I was willing that you should come to Richmond," he said, "for a reason
that I will not mention and which perhaps has passed away. I have had in
my mind--well, to put it plainly, a sort of bargain, a bargain in which
I did not consult you. I thought that you might help me with Helen
Harley, that--well, to speak plainly again, that your attractions might
remove from my path one whom I considered a rival."

A deep flush overspread her face, and then, retreating, left it paler
than ever. Her fingers were pressed tightly into the palms of her hands,
but she said nothing.

"I am frank," continued the Secretary, "but it is best between us.
Finesse would be wasted upon one with your penetrating mind, and I pay
you the highest compliment I know when I discard any attempt to use it.
I find that I have made a great mistake in more respects than one. The
man who I thought stood in my way thought so himself at one time, but he
knows better. Helen Harley is very beautiful and all that is good, but
still there is something lacking. I knew it long ago, but only in the
last few weeks has it had its effect upon me. This man I thought my
rival has turned aside into a new path, and I--well, it seems that fate
intends that he shall be my rival even in his changes--have followed
him."

"What do you mean?" she asked, a sudden fire leaping to her eyes and a
cold dread clutching her heart.

"I mean," he said, "that however beautiful Helen Harley may be, there
are others as beautiful and one perhaps who has something that she
lacks. What is that something? The power to feel passion, to love with a
love that cares for nothing else, and if need be to hate with a hate
that cares for nothing else. She must be a woman with fire in her veins
and lightning in her heart, one who would appear to the man she loves
not only a woman, but as a goddess as well."

"And have you found such a woman?"

She spoke in cold, level tones.

The Secretary looked at her sitting there, her head thrown slightly
back, her eyes closed and the curve of her chin defiant to the uttermost
degree. The wonder that he had not always loved this woman instead of
Helen Harley returned to him. She was a girl and yet she was not; there
was nothing about her immature or imperfect; she was girl and woman,
too. She had spoken to him in the coldest of tones, yet he believed in
the fire beneath the ice. He wished to see what kind of torch would set
the flame. His feeling for her before had been intellectual, now it was
sentimental and passionate.

James Sefton realized that Lucia Catherwood was not merely a woman to be
admired, but one to be loved and desired. She had appealed to him as one
with whom to make a great career; now she appealed to him as a woman
with whom to live. He remembered the story of her carrying the wounded
Prescott off the battlefield in her arms and in the dark, alone and
undaunted, amid all the dead of the Wilderness. She was tall and strong,
but was it so much strength and endurance as love and sacrifice? He was
filled with a sudden fierce and wild jealousy of Prescott, because, when
wounded and stricken down, she had sheltered him within her arms.

His look again followed the curves of her noble face and figure, the
full development of strong years, and a fire of which he had not deemed
himself capable burned in the eyes of the Secretary. The pale shade of
Helen Harley floated away in the mist, but Lucia met his silent gaze
firmly, and again she asked in cold, level tones:

"Have you found such a woman?"

"Yes, I have found her," replied the Secretary. "Perhaps I did not know
it until to-day; perhaps I was not sure, but I have found her. I am a
cold and what one would call a selfish man, but ice breaks up under
summer heat, and I have yielded to the spell of your presence, Lucia."

"Miss Catherwood!"

"Well, Miss Catherwood--no, Lucia it shall be! I swear it shall be
Lucia! I do not care for courtesy now, and you are compelled to hear me
say it. It is a noble name, a beautiful one, and it gives me pleasure to
say it. Lucia! Lucia! Lucia!"

"Go on, then, since I cannot stop you."

"I said that I have found such a woman and I have. Lucia, I love you,
because I cannot help myself, just as you cannot help my calling you
Lucia. And, Lucia, it is a love that worships, too. There is nothing bad
in it. I would put myself at your feet. You shall be a queen to me and
to all the rest of the world, for I have much to offer you besides my
poor self. However the war may end, I shall be rich, very rich, and we
shall have a great career. Let it be here if you will, or in the North,
or in Europe. You have only to say."

There was then a feeling for him not all hate in the soul of Lucia
Catherwood. It is a gripping and giggling, and left in the bow window
outweighed the breasts of women, And on the stairs, at each house,
sitting in bright dresses, with crowd crowd, Looks unverlegen and clear
out and keep open lust for breasts and hair . The distance and the proximity
was a place And you and me, we took the flame away, the distance and the
proximity was a place. We humans grow with the trees And the trees are
used to Scheiterhauf.

It is light, as Scheit Scheit to, so husband and wife, And blaze
from the earth continues as the sole body; Are bonfires in the
short night and have to fire up your feet and know nothing of their own
grandeur. Nominal thee my fields Do not wish your body called the garden,
Where Blum is' and humans only know by sight. If your body Give my
meadows, Where Healing And Labkräutlein spicy roots sprout. Tiny little
flowers, barely visible as stars, there Hausen native, used to work
remotely. Shall me there to sleep in the Glücksklee lay, He sells the
grief.

Never in a garden Can I rest in the beds in the hard. you rated my meadows,
Where me strength and joy Herzerquickend sprout. Gently put your love
into my soft bed you put the love on my bed In your most beautiful
dress made of shame and nakedness, And out came the breathless night
on loose snow, And God the Father came in breathless size.

With all eyes, the God cried, laughing.

You have your heart and your body to crown this night made . In the blue
light from the Penang Malay Tatoto Gabriela courtesan, in the
spring time in England in the steamer and Malakkastraße China sea
from Penang to Hong Kong traveled, lived in the summer of rest in
their mansion in Penang.

Her house was like a single white room in a deep grassy garden. Instead,
the flowerbeds were man-sized bluish porcelain vases in long lines
along the Garden lattice, and yellow carnations rotgefleckte Tiger
grew in bunches from the vases.

Slender walker with a pitch-black palm leaf fan boasted as dark peacock
around the white villa. A scharlachblühender Elektrinenbaum spreads at
the garden entrance.

The red flowers in the mesentery of the air shone like the bloody battle
Bank of a butcher. The garden seemed the soul life of the courtesan in
his colors to reflect.

The artificiality of porcelain vases, with the dimness of the palms
and walkers with the ruthless lascivious ruddiness Elektrinenbäume
the memories of its owner.

In Penang reigns over all things, about the Kalkwänden of houses, on the
broad leaf surfaces of the palms and on the skin of the human an
eternal blue light.

Always there is a blueness above all, as a constant in the moonlight,
sunshine.

The blue light from Penang is like the bluish glow of an invisible
electric arc lamp, is the fountain of gardens, on the cobblestones,
over the water mirror of the sea and even over the armor plates of
the passing ships of war just like a phosphorus lights on the middle
days.

And the blueness makes Muschelkalk transparent walls of the houses, as
could the people here through the steps ghostly walls go, as if the city
only a bluish unreal sleep in the middle of the picture monitor
tropical sun.

Nobody has the bluish light from Penang ever explained, but it is
always there, and the indigenous photographers to paint itself on
postcards, on faces and landscapes, this moonlight in the sunshine.

Tatotos Also Gabriela white farmhouse stood in the middle of green
gardens on the day with moon blue walls who, like too much geblaute
Laundry glowed.

The Malay Fuluo Holongku Photographer in Penang had this house been on the
dozen postcards with delicate blueness painted, because the donated
courtesan like her house with a garden view image to their friends.
But they never gave her own image. They feared that, like all Asians
are superstitious, before the evil eye foreign eye, - before the evil
eye, which would bring her harm, and evil desires, based on their
image could be addressed.

Only once had Holongku photograph of Gabriela leave. But when he delivers
the photos and her face in front of the dozen saw frightened them,
fell into fear and even burned all the pictures in the evening with
his own hands.

The photographer still Holongku had a picture of the Tatoto, an
image, which showed naked courtesan, and that she herself had never
seen before.

Holongku wore this secret image into the lining of his house sewn skirt,
because it will bring good fortune, the naked picture of a courtesan
is always with you to wear.

The photographer was an easy way to come into possession of this
picture has come.

Holongku Gabriela had to be in the villa called to photograph it. It was
hot at the beginning of time, the courtesan was drowsy and her
Hongkongreise just returned.

The Tatoto lay straw in a long chair in the room of the house
shadiest.

The green roofs to protect the long windows were herabgeklappt, the
slices until the hall opened, but the Kalkdecke shone in the room, as
always, her intense bluish light.

Gabrielas Chinese orange silk coat was wide open and showed the narrow
body of the courtesan as the meat of a slit rotgelber mango fruit
in bowl.

About the bare arm of the beautiful woman rose gently with the
slowest steps of the world, their toys, a little chameleon, which,
like a tiny gray ghost in the room circumvented.

The photographer was in the house appeared, and as he was ordered,
no one followed him from the servants of the vestibule.

He lifted the straw mat by the door and saw the naked courtesan asleep.
Lightning fast in the United Malays thought and desire, the image
of the naked woman to have to bring it with you to wear.

He went silent, the aluminum frame of his camera to the street and quickly
photographed, from the doorstep of the end of sleep. He would have liked
to receive prior approval by the small upper Gabrielas ugly chameleon
away, there stood still on three legs and the fourth leg like a dog
waiting in the air stretched. But the small gray animal was under
his eyes motionless flaps in the blue light to the ceiling and
did not extend to the arm of the Schläferin. The Malay photographer
after a while crouching in the hallway on the floor and seemed with
Oriental calm the awakening of the lady to wait .

Holongkus heart knocked violently, as he later in his home darkroom the
small image of the naked courtesan on the rise plate. The next morning,
he sewed a paper reprinted them in his house rock and knew now that his
life he will be lucky.

Only he was allowed by the image of anyone to speak. But the luck was in
crazy shape. Heated beleaguered voluptuous dreams of the poor man The
naked Tatoto came at night, as fire in a yellow jacket on the bed of
the Malays and lay down in his bed between him and his young wife.
And if he access the courtesan hug and wanted to hang him the stiff
grinning chameleon at heart.

By day, the Tatoto bare before him on the bluish patch of Penang. Stared
for hours, the young photographer absentminded in the blue light from
Penang and stood like a dreamer in the moonlight in the sunshine.

Only when his house rock test, sewn in them Gabrielas picture was, he
breathed easier. Often it happened that Holongku attracted his European
suit, his straw hat up Europe and went to the harbor where a foreign
ship signaled post was. Then he sold on the Promenade of the steamer
arrived painted photographs and postcards from Penang to the world
traveler. For a short hours, he will rock the house with his restless
passion for the courtesan from.

Holongku If the port was on a steamer, was sixteen years of his young
wife in front of the studio building on the landing below the
Schlingpflanzendach.

The white stone stairs glowed bluish white and Marmi eyeballs shone as
bluish.

The young woman has every afternoon a small table on the shady house
stairs, and sat there for hours and painted dozens of postcards,
until her husband returns.

Marmi sat again today in their usual place, and behind her sparkling
glass studio in the garden green, like the window of an aquarium. Marmi
sat faithfully and hard about their postcards flexed.

Your black hair reflected glattgescheiteltes bluish highlights. This
lackschwarze hair has often been over there on the road from the
Chinese basket-Ling Sung beträumt.

The Chinese had his open house Basketry from the photographer. There were
white half-pipe by many large Chinese squiggled straw chairs and
sofas, ornate straw after English templates work.

Ling-Sung, the rich owner of this business, the afternoon was sitting
in the street in a big rocking chair. He was always with a black Kalikohose
clothed. His upper body was naked. He showed his abdomen shiny yellow
ball of the sun and slept under a dried palm leaf fan, he is on the
forehead had.

His two from fat swollen bare arms hanging on both sides of the rocking
chair by feist body down. The black Kalikohose glowed like boiling
black asphalt in the sun, and the yellow ball was full body glistening
sweat beads and glittered like a fat pie expanded. When Ling-Sung is
not asleep, he rocked, and his long pigtail hung behind the chair
until the patch and moving like a Perpendikel.

To him his people were working on the gebückt straw braid, and partly
in the open hall house, partly on the wide empty street. Ling-Sung was
able to spend hours lying in his position and to swing photographer
hinüberstarren. He dreamed then out to China in his home city, and
from there he wanted to be later a Chinese woman to get black as the
photographer over.

Half asleep, half dreaming, he committed in hot thoughts, carefree and
innocent as any sleeping, some adultery with the photographer. But when
he awoke, he thought only of his sober Basketry and collects in the
busy city of outstanding money. Even the Malay Photographer owed some
money to the Chinese, but Ling-Sung magnanimously waited, partly
because he was Holongkus neighbor, partly because he the wife of
the photographer pleasant dreams were in vain.

Marmi, the photographer's wife, sat every afternoon totally clueless on
its staircase before the table and painted their postcard from Penang
with bluish color. She thought with no idea of the Chinese and just
waited for the homecoming of her husband, in which it was true love.
Every day is in Penang a sultry air like lightning in an incubator,
and how electricity is loaded with blue glow all Erdkörper.

Spent many hours on the magnifying glass a magnifying glass gebückt
had Marmi gemalt tired today.

They went into the corridor and brought home the rock of her husband,
put him on her knees and wanted a button to sew demolished.

The cisterns in the garden smelled dull, and the smooth surfaces of the
leaf fan palms threw bright highlights, such as large white concave
mirror.

Marmi forehead hurt, and they closed after inserting the needle for
a moment their eyes.

This moment, but quickly became a sleeping picture of a few seconds, a
lightning-quick dream, the Anglo-year period of adoption.

Marmi dreamed of Chinese-Ling Sung suddenly demanded his money. He stood
before her, and knocked on the table and vigorously urged the payment
because he travel to China and wanted to get married. Marmi begged
for her husband to postpone, but Ling-Sung was inexorable.

Three hundred yen for basket chairs and sofas, the studio facility,
should be immediately paid.

Otherwise, the Chinese photographer tonight the slaughter and roast
him, like the ogre in Sumatra over do it, and together with his relatives
as a wedding feast Holongku consume. Marmi quickly saw in a dream
finsterbewaldete the coast of Sumatra on the Malakkastraße where
ogre still friends and relatives slaughtered, as you are in Penang
told.

Marmi shivered and confused in a dream with Sumatra and China believed
that the Chinese would hinüberreisen there and her husband as a
wedding feast lug wanted if he would not pay.

Rasch was it a legacy of their father's one. This, a Malay, had sometimes
told that it could kill people if their images or their photography
with a needle puncture.

The engraving must take the breast, and this should be the Malay word
"Lulauû" loudly and clearly.

The hand must not tremble. You need the needle on the Photography in
the heart area of the person concerned, and subsequently the word
"Lulauû" stand by the picture, but the needle should not break off. Marmi
decided to sleep in, the Chinese Sung-ling in this way to kill them.

They looked in the desk drawer after his photograph, because the Chinese
had for his bride to photograph.

Marmi and promised to act quickly with their husband for their immediate
help before the Chinese ogre. She looked again Ling Sung rigidly into
the eye and said, "Well, you are giving my husband no more longer
period, Ling-Sung?"

No , the wedding is tomorrow, "said the Chinese, and his yellow
belly feist shone in the sun, like the yellow tonnes in the port
of Penang in seawater swim."

Well, "said Marmi determined, began sewing needle and pricked them in the
image of the Chinese chest and cried loud, "Lulauû!" The Chinese blue was
white, like the air of Penang, and was stiff before Marmi on the ground.
deep sigh and with a heavy burden load woke Marmi. She heard more clearly
their lips »Lulauû« say. My ears still heard the paper of the photograph
under the needle stick crackle. The Chinese were murdered by umgefallen
and Marmi. Marmi, now fully awake and smiled about the strange dream.
Above the road was, as always, peaceful breathing of feist Chinese
Ling-Sung in the rocking chair. He had his stomach fry pies, and it
worked to the basket with white bamboo tubes. Marmi looking for their
needle, they had lost sleep. They found her in the house of her husband,
rock stuck, as if her hand had sewn in his sleep. Marmi remembered that
her husband just today the bill to the Chinese side had paid, and there
was no question of his guilt. She sewed, breathe a sigh of relief, the
button at the Rock House, then went into the Rock and hung in hallway
to his place. Then she drew back to their busy postcards on. After
a while came back from the port Holongku. The couple nodded to. The
man came into the house, changed his coat and went into the little dark
to his laboratory chemicals.

The woman heard him outside for half an hour with glass bottles and handle.
Then he came back out onto the staircase. He was very pale before Marmi,
pointed with his hands over his face and said to his wife, he felt sick
in the body. He was as röche the whole house after a disgusting body
odor. Marmi was shocked and went with her husband through the room
and through the garden. They examined both whether verreckte somewhere
a lizard or a dead parrot in putrefaction are hingeworfen. They found
nothing in the garden and once again went through the rooms in the house.
The woman never smelled anything, but calmed down Holongku not. He
found that the cadaver smell in his clothes sitting, and when she
just stood in the kitchen, he threw the rock from the house and
threw him on the cold stove.

There had to laugh and laughed Marmi her husband, and this went
without a rock back to his work. But it was not long since came to
Holongku Marmi in the laboratory and complained about a smell of
burning in the house.

Both made a return to the search, and when they opened the door to the
kitchen, proposed a large flame from the stove into the air, and
the rock flew them home, burned to a flat black ash lobes, opposite
from the stove.

They noted that some embers in the ash box was, and that the house
rock, impregnated with chemical vapors, a spark had awakened and
was verglimmt. - On the next afternoon, before the photographer
went to the harbor, came the Chinese Ling Sung by yonder out of his
house, came over on the road and stayed at the white steps of the
staircase paragraph are, where their Marmi as always painted
postcards.

The young woman was surprised by its work and thought for a moment:
"The Chinese stood there like yesterday afternoon, when I dreamed
of him and with the needle punctured his image .

"Ling-Sung waved to the photographers and whispered into his ear:" The
Gabriela Tatoto yesterday afternoon in her country house died. A snake
came from her garden and has them in the nude breast bitten, as they
stood on their chairs and slept. The snake wanted to hunt on the
chameleon make that always sat on Gabrielas arm.

But the courtesan and suggested awoke in fright after the poisonous
snake, which then infuriated zubiß. The Tatoto is short on Giftbiß
afterwards died.

All people are now hunting for snakes in their gardens. I would like your
Mungos tonight borrow in order to scan my garden to be.

"The photographer promised Ling Sung Mungos for the evening, and the
Chinese went back thanking and greeting over. Marmi ran into the kitchen
and fetched the little mongooses of the chain, drew it into the
garden and let the animals, the best snake keeper is to scan the
bushes.

But her husband was grabbed as he was alone in the chest and breathed
easier, since it the image of the seductive courtesan no longer in
the lining of his new skirt felt the image that Marmi in his sleep
yesterday had pierced, and what with the rock was burned at the
stove.

Holongku from now on was never absent and vergeistert and stared
for hours is no longer in the blue light of Penang, like the moon
is in the sunshine.

Always talks are in the forest are always talks in the forest: Soon
you waving a hand to you This has something to show.

Soon there is a beetle on your sleeve and flashes.

Flügelein His flashes like a love idea The moment is sinking again. The
dead mosquito singing floats your ear, As longing to the lives of
the blood And you drink from your pores.

Where the forest scans, chopped Is hulking stratified, blowing bark
smell of fire seals. Stay in the clothes you sit still long as you
want it to attract a fire. Fledermäuse The summer evening with light
and dark, with clouds like a spotted coat, and its unclear how rumors
Stands on toes on a Stell. Quick on the heads of the trees are
two bats in irrem circles.

They flutter, as if they thought mow, because of the day in the air. It
decapitate the things unseen, What remained silent and ungeschehen, And
as a matter Girrer astray thief And umflirren, which remained dark
during the day.

Connect is scarcely
the word, because that is too definite; this is exceedingly vague.
Harley spoke of it the other night, and although he did not call
Prescott by name, his manner indicated that he was the man meant. Harley
seems to have received a little nebulous information from a certain
quarter, not enough upon which to take action had one the malice to wish
it, but enough to indicate that he might obtain more from the same
source."

The Secretary paused, and his expression was one of mingled concern and
sympathy. A young man whom he liked was about to fall into serious
difficulties and he would save him from them if he could. Yet they
understood each other perfectly. A single glance, a spark from steel
like that which had passed between Prescott and the Secretary, passed
now between these two. The Secretary was opening another mine in the
arduous siege that he had undertaken; if he could not win by treaty he
would by arms, and now he was threatening her through Prescott.

She did not flinch and therefore she won his increased admiration. Her
natural colour returned and she met his glance firmly. The life of Lucia
Catherwood had been hard and she was trained to repression and
self-reliance.

"I do not understand why you should speak of this to me," she said.

"Merely that you might exert your influence in his favour."

She was measuring him then with a glance not less penetrating than his
own. Why should she seek now to save Prescott? But she would, if she
could. This was a threat that the Secretary might keep, but not at once,
and she would seek time.

"Captain Prescott has done me a great service," she said, "and naturally
I should be grateful to any who did as much for him."

"Perhaps some one who will do as much can be found," he said. "It may be
that I shall speak to him of you later and then he will claim the reward
that you promise."

It was on her lips to say that she promised nothing except gratitude,
but she withheld the words. It suddenly seemed fair to a singularly
honest mind to meet craft with craft. She had heard of the military
phrase, "in the air"; she would leave the Secretary in the air. So she
merely said:

"I am not in Captain Prescott's confidence, but I know that he will
thank you."

"He should," said the Secretary dryly, and left her.

Almost at the very moment that the Secretary was going to the Grayson
cottage Prescott was on his way to Winthrop's newspaper office.

There was little to be done, and a group including General Wood, who had
come that afternoon from Petersburg, sat in the old fashion by the stove
and talked of public affairs, especially the stage into which the war
had now come. The heat of the room felt grateful, as a winter night was
falling outside, and in the society of his friends Prescott found
himself becoming more of an optimist than he had been for some days.
Cheerfulness is riveted in such a physical base as youth and strength,
and Prescott was no exception. He could even smile behind his hand when
he saw General Wood draw forth the infallible bowie-knife, pull a piece
of pine from a rickety box that held fuel for the stove and begin to
whittle from it long, symmetrical shavings that curled beautifully. This
was certain evidence that General Wood, for the evening at least, was
inclined to look on the bright side of life.

Unto this placid group came two men, walking heavily up the wooden
stairs and showing signs of mental wear. Their eyebrows were raised with
surprise at the sight of Prescott, but they made no comment. They were
Harley and Redfield.

Harley approached Winthrop with a jovial air.

"I've found you a new contributor to your paper and he's ready to bring
you a most interesting piece of news."

Winthrop flipped the ash off his cigar and regarded Harley coolly.

"Colonel!" he said, "I'm always grateful for good news, but I don't take
it as a favour. If it comes to the pinch I can write my newspaper all by
myself."

Harley changed countenance and his tone changed too.

"It's in the interest of justice," he said, "and it will be sure to
attract attention at the same time."

"I imagine that it must be in the interest of justice when you and Mr.
Redfield take so much trouble to secure its publication," said Winthrop;
"and I imagine that I'm not risking much when I also say that you are
the brilliant author who has written the little piece."

"It's this," said Harley. "It's about a man who has been paying too
ardent attentions to a married woman--no names given, of course; he is a
captain, a young man who is here on leave, and she is the wife of a
general who is at the front and can't look after his own honour. Gossip
says, too, that the captain has been concerned in something else that
will bring him up with a jerk if the Government hears of it. It's all
written out here. Oh, it will make a fine stir!"

Prescott half rose from his seat, but sank back and remained quiet.
Again he imitated the Secretary's example of self-repression and waited
to see what Winthrop would do. General Wood trimmed off a shaving so
long that it coiled all the way around his wrist. Then he took it off
carefully, dropped it on the floor with the others, and at once went to
work whittling a new one.

"Let's see the article," said Winthrop.

Harley handed it to him and he read it carefully.

"A fine piece of work," he said; "who wrote it--you or Redfield?"

"Oh, we did it together," replied Harley with a smile of appreciation.

Redfield uttered a denial, but it was too late.

"A fine piece of work," repeated Winthrop, "admirably adapted to the
kindling of fires. Unfortunately my fire is already kindled, but it can
help on the good cause."

With that he cast the paper into the stove.

Harley uttered an oath.

"What do you mean?" he cried.

"I mean that you can't use my paper to gratify your private revenge. If
you want to do that sort of thing you must get a newspaper of your own."

"I think you are infernally impertinent."

"And I think, Vincent Harley, that you are a damned fool. You want a
duel with the man about whom you've written this card, but for excellent
reasons he will decline to meet you. Still I hate to see a man who is
looking for a fight go disappointed, and just to oblige you I'll fight
you myself."

"But I've no quarrel with you," said Harley sullenly.

July by mutual negotiators signed. The main points of this agreement
were: recognition of Napoleon's imperial title by Russia, the Austrian
land clearance and delivery of the Bocca di Cattaro to the French.

Meanwhile began negotiations with General Lauriston Senjavin and
the Austrian diplomat, Count _Bellegard_ and _L'Epin_.

As he deals with because of its slower Senjavin attitude could not
understand, he demanded from the Bokel to the French to surrender.
Bellegard was decided against. Because he said if the French Bocca not
directly received from Austria, so would the fortress of Braunau latter
lost [35]. Lauriston made attempts also to Peter Vladika friendly attitude
against the French to move. He had learned how irresistible influence
he had on Bokel.

He knew that no power, hence the French do not, without his consent
in the area quiet and happy reign vermöchten.

Lauriston made Vladika the many promises. So he promised him as
Napoleon on behalf of the Patriarch dignity throughout Dalmatia.
[36] Of course, it rejected the Vladika from. There was a time, from
what we have already spoken, where he was willing, with the French
Alliance in talks to meet even those where he eagerly wished.

This time, however, was now over. The situation had changed. The Vladika
knew that his people after so much bloodshed and so many
hostilities with the French are not happy with the same heart now an
alliance would close. He knew too well the character of this simple
people, not his feelings after diplomatic considerations, but after
an inborn justice scale regulated.

These people could not now be someone's friend, the enemy had been there
yesterday. III. The struggles to Tilsit peace 8. Preparing for the
new challenge.

In Slavic camp Castelnuovo awaited with impatience the answer of the
Czar on the grounds of non-delivery of the petition sent Bocca,
Lauriston negotiations failed everywhere.

He gave it to, or better said, he handed them to the just-arrived
Generalissimo of the French army for Dalmatia, the General Marmont.

On 2 August reached on this in Ragusa.

He found, as he himself claimed, [37] the army in a very miserable
condition.

The French troops in Dalmatia from the funds should be allocated
to them from the military camp in Italy got.

The support, however, was flawed and irregular.
You'll come with
me now to the Spotswood Hotel, because there's no time to waste. I don't
reckon you or I will get much sleep to-night, but if we don't sleep
to-night we'll doze in the saddle to-morrow."

"The king not only commands, but knows what to command," said Raymond
softly.

It was the general of the battlefield, the man of lightning force who
spoke, and there was none who dared to disobey. Harley, himself a
brilliant soldier though nothing else, yielded when he felt the hand of
steel on his arm, and acknowledged the presence of a superior force.

"Very well, General," he said respectfully; "I am at your service."

"Good-night, gentlemen," said Wood to the others, and he added
laughingly to the editors: "Don't you boys print anythin' until you know
what you're printin'," and to Prescott: "I reckon you'd better say
good-by to-morrow to your friends in Richmond. I don't allow that you'll
have more'n a couple of days longer here," and then to Harley: "Come
along, Colonel; an' I s'pose you're goin' out with us, too, Mr.
Redfield."

He swept up the two with his glance and the three left together, their
footsteps sounding on the rickety steps until they passed into the
street.

"There goes a man, a real man," said Raymond with emphasis. "Winthrop,
it takes such as he to reduce fellows like you and Harley to their
proper places."

"It is unkind of him to kidnap Harley in that summary fashion," said
Winthrop ruefully. "I really wanted to put a bullet through him. Not in
a vital place--say through the shoulder or the fleshy part of the arm,
where it would let blood flow freely. That's what he needs."

But Prescott was devoutly thankful to Wood, and especially for his
promise that he, too, should speedily be sent to the front. What he
wished most of all now was to escape from Richmond.

The promise was kept, the order to report to General Wood himself in
Petersburg came the next day and he was to start on the following
morning.

He took courage to call upon Lucia and found her at home, sitting
silently in the little parlour, the glow from the fire falling across
her hair and tinting it with deep gleams of reddish gold. Whether she
was surprised to see him he could not judge, her face remaining calm and
no movement that would betray emotion escaping her.

"Miss Catherwood," he said, "I have come to bid you farewell. I rejoin
the army to-morrow and I am glad to go."

FISCHER SCHOOL EXPENDITURE TEXTS OF MODERN AUTHORS 255th - 284 Thousands
of these edition Copyright 1922 by S.

Fischer Verlag AG, Berlin Printing: Printing Hanseatische Institute GmbH,
Hamburg, Germany Printed in Germany I The winter sun was just as poor
form, milky and dull behind layers of clouds above the narrow city.

Wet and drafty it was in the gable ends, and sometimes was a sort of soft
hail, not ice, not snow.

The school was made. About the cobbled courtyard and out of the gate
Pforte crowds flocked to the free, shared and enteilten right and
left. Large pupils had their books with dignity packet high against
the left shoulder is pressed by the right arm against the wind against
the lunch rowed; little funny people sat down in a trot that Eisbrei
umherspritzte and the Seven cases of science in the Seehundsränzeln
rattled.

But here and there with devout tore all eyes down the caps before Wotanshut
Jupiter's beard and the one measured hinschreitenden head ... "If
you come at last, John?" Said Tonio Kröger, the long wait on the Fahrdamm
had a smile, he joined the Friends contrary, in conversation with other
comrades came out of the gate and was already in the terms with them
davonzugehen ...

"Why?" He asked and looked at Tonio ... »Yes, that's true! Now we go a
little bit. "Tonio silent and his eyes are clouded. Hans had forgotten
it, it was only now back on at noon today that they are a little
walk together wanted?

And he himself had changed since the appointment almost disrupted the
happy! "Yes, goodbye, her," said Hans Hansen to the comrades.

"Then I go a bit with Kröger." - And the two turned to the left, while
the others strolled to the right.

Hans and Tonio had time to walk out of school because they both belonged
to houses in which only four clock was eaten at lunch. Their fathers were
big merchants who occupied public offices and were mighty in the
city.

The Hansens have been belonged to some people age, the vast timberyard
places down there on the river, where huge saws hissing and hissing
among the tribes dissected.

But Tonio Kröger son was consul, whose grain sacks with the wide
black printing company you every day through the streets kutschieren
saw, and his ancestors great old house was the rule of the whole
city ...

Resistance had to friends, acquaintances because many of the hats
down, yes, some people were fourteen year olds first had greeted ...

Both the school kits hanging over the shoulders, and both were well
dressed and warm, Hans in a short seaman Over-jacket over the shoulders
and on the back of the broad collar of his navy blue suit was, and Tonio
in a gray Gurtpaletot. Hans Danish sailors wore a cap with short strips,
with a tuft of his bastblonden hair hervorquoll. He was extremely
handsome and well-broad in the shoulders and narrow in the hips,
with exposed and sharp looking steel-blue eyes.

But under Tonios looked round fur cap of a brunette and very sharp cut
south face dark and delicate umschattete eyes with heavy eyelids too
dreamy and a little timid out ... Mouth and chin were formed him unusually
soft. He walked carelessly and unevenly, while Hansen's slender legs
in black stockings and tactful as elastic solid einherschritten ...
Tonio did not speak. He felt pain. By his brows slightly below zusammenzog
and the lips rounded to the pipe was, he looked sideways tilted head
into the distance. This attitude and his face was peculiarly. Suddenly
Hans pushed his arm under the Tonios and saw him from the side, because
he understood very well what it was. Tonio And although even at the
next steps still remained silent, so he was at once very soft it. "I
had not forgotten, Tonio," said Hans ago and looked down on the
pavement, "but I just thought that today, but probably nothing that could
be because it is so wet and windy.
Then his mother continued with personal news of his friends and
acquaintances.

       *       *       *       *       *

"The popularity of Lucia Catherwood lasts," she wrote. "She would avoid
publicity, but she can scarcely do it without offending the good people
who like her. She seems gay and is often brilliant, but I do not think
she is happy. She receives great attention from Mr. Sefton, whose power
in the Government, disguised as it is in a subordinate position, seems
to increase. Whether or not she likes him I do not know. Sometimes I
think she does, and sometimes I think she has the greatest aversion to
him. But it is a courtship that interests all Richmond. People mostly
say that the Secretary will win, but as an old woman--a mere
looker-on--I have my doubts. Helen Harley still holds her place in the
Secretary's office, but Mr. Sefton no longer takes great interest in
her. Her selfish old father does not like it at all, and I hear that he
speaks slightingly of the Secretary's low origin; but he continues to
spend the money that his daughter earns.

"It is common gossip that the Secretary knows all about Lucia's life
before she came to Richmond; that he has penetrated the mystery and in
some way has a hold over her which he is using. I do not know how this
report originated, but I think it began in some foolish talk of Vincent
Harley's. As for myself, I do not believe there is any mystery at all.
She is simply a girl who in these troublous times came, as was natural,
to her nearest relative, Miss Grayson."

       *       *       *       *       *

"No bad news, Bob, I hope," said Talbot, looking at his gloomy face.

"None at all," said Prescott cheerily, and with pardonable evasion.

"There go the skirmishers again."

A rapid crackle arose from a point far to their left, but the men around
Talbot and Prescott paid no attention to it, merely huddling closer in
the effort to keep warm. They had ceased long since to be interested in
such trivialities.

"Grant's going to move right away; I feel it in my bones," repeated
Talbot.

Talbot was right. That night the cold suddenly fled, the chilly clouds
left the heavens and the great Northern General issued a command. A year
before another command of his produced that terrific campaign through
the Wilderness, where a hundred thousand men fell, and he meant this
second one to be as significant.

Now the fighting, mostly the work of sharpshooters through the winter,
began in regular form, and extended in a long line over the torn and
trampled fields of Virginia, where all the soil was watered with blood.
The numerous horsemen of Sheridan, fresh from triumphs in the Valley of
Virginia, were the wings of the Northern force, and they hung on the
flanks of the Southern army, incessantly harrying it, cutting off
companies and regiments, giving the worn and wounded men no respite.

Along a vast, curving line that steadily bent in toward Richmond--the
Southern army inside, the Northern army outside--the sound of the cannon
scarcely ever ceased, night or day. Lee fought with undiminished skill,
always massing his thin ranks at the point of contact and handling them
with the old fire and vigour; but his opponent never ceased the terrible
hammering that he had begun more than a year ago. Grant intended to
break through the shell of the Southern Confederacy, and it was now
cracking and threatening to shatter before his ceaseless strokes.

The defenders of a lost cause, if cause it was, scarcely ever knew what
it was to draw a free breath. When they were not fighting, they were
marching, often on bare feet, and of the two they did not know which
they preferred. They were always hungry; they went into battles on empty
stomachs, came out with the same if they came out at all, and they had
no time to think of the future. They had become mere battered machines,
animated, it is true, by a spirit, but by a spirit that could take no
thought of softness. They had respected Grant from the first; now,
despite their loss by his grim tactics, they looked in wonder and
admiration at them, and sought to measure the strength of mind that
could pay a heavy present price in flesh and blood in order to avoid a
greater price hereafter.

Prescott and Talbot were with the last legion. The bullets, after
wounding them so often, seemed now to give them the right of way. They
came from every battle and skirmish unhurt, only to go into a new one
the next day.

"If I get out of all this alive," said Talbot, with grim humour, "I
intend to eat for a month and then sleep for a year; maybe then I'll
feel rested."

Wood, too, was always there with his cavalry, now a thin band, seeking
to hold back the horsemen of the North, and Vincent Harley, ever a good
soldier, was his able second.

In these desperate days Prescott began to feel respect for Harley; he
admired the soldier, if not the man. There was no danger too great for
Harley, no service too arduous. He slept in the saddle, if he slept at
all, and his spirit never flinched. There was no time for, him to renew
his quarrel with Prescott, and Prescott was resolved that it should
never be renewed if there were any decent way of avoiding it.

The close of a day of incessant battle and skirmish was at hand, and
clouds of smoke darkened the twilight. From the east and from the west
came the low mutter and thunder of the guns. The red sun was going down
in a sea of ominous fire. There were strange reports of the deeds of
Sheridan, but the soldiers themselves knew nothing definite. They had
lost touch with other bodies of their comrades, and they could only hope
to meet them again. Meanwhile they gave scarcely a glance at the lone
and trampled land, but threw themselves down under the trees and fell
asleep.

A messenger came for Prescott. "The General-in-Chief wishes you," he
said.

Prescott walked to a small fire where Lee sat alone for the present and
within the shelter of the tent. He was grave and thoughtful, but that
was habitual with him. Prescott could not see that the victor of
Fredericksburg and Chancellorsville had changed in bearing or manner. He
was as neat as ever; the gray uniform was spotless; the splendid sword,
a gift from admirers, hung by his side. His face expressed nothing to
the keen gaze of Prescott, who was now no novice in the art of reading
the faces of men.

Prescott saluted and stood silent.

Lee looked at him thoughtfully.

"Captain Prescott," he said, "I have heard good reports of you, and I
have had the pleasure also to see you bear yourself well."

Prescott's heart beat fast at this praise from the first man of the
South.

"Do you know the way to Richmond?" asked the General.

"I could find it in a night as black as my hat."

"That is good. Here is a letter that I wish you to take there and
deliver as soon as you can to Mr. Davis. It is important, and be sure
you do not fall into the hands of any of the Northern raiders."

He held out a small sealed envelope, and Prescott took it.

"Take care of yourself," he said, "because you will have a dangerous
ride."

Prescott saluted and turned away. He looked back once, and the General
was still sitting alone by the fire, his face grave and thoughtful.

Prescott had a good horse, and when he rode away was full of faith that
he would reach Richmond. He was glad to go because of the confidence Lee
showed in him, and because he might see in the capital those for whom he
cared most.

As he rode on the lights behind him died and the darkness came up and
covered Lee's camp. But he had truly told the General that he could find
his way to Richmond in black darkness, and to-night he had need of both
knowledge and instinct. There was a shadowed moon, flurries of rain, and
a wind moaning through the pine woods. From far away, like the swell of
the sea on the rocks, came the low mutter of the guns. Scarcely ever did
it cease, and its note rose above the wailing of the wind like a kind of
solemn chorus that got upon Prescott's nerves.

"Is it a funeral song?" he asked.

On he went and the way opened before him in the darkness; no Northern
horsemen crossed his path; the cry of "Halt!" never came. It seemed to
Prescott that fate was making his way easy. For what purpose? He did not
like it. He wished to be interrupted--to feel that he must struggle to
achieve his journey. This, too, got upon his nerves. He grew lonely and
afraid--not afraid of physical danger, but of the omens and presages
that the night seemed to bear. He wondered again about the message that
he bore. Why had not General Lee given some hint of its contents? Then
he blamed himself for questioning.

He rode slowly and thus many hours passed. Mile after mile fell behind
him and the night went with them. The sun sprang up, the golden day
enfolded the earth, and at last from the top of a hill he saw afar the
spires of Richmond. It was a city that he loved--his home, the scene of
the greatest events in his life, including his manhood's love; and as he
looked down upon it now his eyes grew misty. What would be its fate?

He rode on, giving the countersign as he passed the defenses. With the
pure day, the omens and presages of the night seemed to have passed.
Richmond breathed a Sabbath calm; the Northern armies might have been a
thousand miles away for all the sign it gave. There was no fear, no
apprehension on the faces he saw. Richmond still had absolute faith in
Lee; whatever his lack of resources, he would meet the need.

From lofty church spires bells began to ring. The air was pervaded with
a holy calm, and Prescott, with the same feeling upon him, rode on. He
longed to turn aside to see his mother and to call at the Grayson
cottage, but "as soon as possible," the General had said, and he must
deliver his message. He knocked at the door of the White House of the
Confederacy. "Gone to church," the servant said when he asked for Mr.
Davis.

Prescott took his way to Doctor Hoge's church, well knowing where the
President of the Confederacy habitually sat, and stiff with his night's
riding, walked and led his mount. At the church door he gave the horse
to a little negro boy to hold and went quietly inside.

The President and his family were in their pew and the minister was
speaking. Prescott paused a few moments at the entrance to the aisle. No
one paid any attention to him; soldiers were too common a sight to be
noticed. He felt in the inside pocket of his waistcoat and drew forth
the sealed envelope. Then he slipped softly down the aisle, leaned over
the President's pew and handed him the note with the whispered words, "A
message from General Lee."

Prescott, receiving no orders, quietly withdrew to a neighbouring vacant
pew and watched Mr. Davis as he opened the envelope and read the letter.
He saw a sudden gray pallor sweep over his face, a quick twitching of
the lips and then a return of the wonted calm.

The President of the Confederacy refolded the note and put it in his
pocket. Presently he rose and left the church and Prescott followed him.
An hour later Richmond was stricken into a momentary dumbness, soon
followed by the chattering of many voices. The city, the capital, was to
be given up. General Lee had written that the Southern army could no
longer defend it, and advised the immediate departure of the Government,
which was now packing up, ready to take flight by the Danville railroad.

Richmond, so long the inviolate, was to be abandoned. No one questioned
the wisdom of Lee, but they were struck down by the necessity. Panic ran
like fire in dry grass. The Yankees were coming at once, and they would
burn and slay! Their cavalry had already been seen on the outskirts of
the city. There was no time to lose if they were to escape to the
farther South.

The streets were filled with the confused crowd. The rumours grew; they
said everything, but of one thing the people were sure. The Government
was packing its papers and treasures in all haste, and the train was
waiting to take it southward. That they beheld with their own eyes.
Great numbers of the inhabitants, too, made ready for flight as best
they could, but they yet preserved most of their courage. They said they
would come back. General Lee, when he gathered new forces, would return
to the rescue of the city and they would come with him. The women and
the children often wept, but the men, though with gloomy faces, bade
them be of good cheer.

Prescott, still with no orders and knowing that none would come, walked
slowly through the crowd, his heart full of grief and pity. This was his
world about him that was falling to pieces. He knew why the night had
been so full of omens; why the distant cannon had escorted him like
funeral guns.

His first thought was now of his mother, and his second was of Lucia
Catherwood, knowing well that in such a moment the passions of all the
wild and lawless would rise. He hurried to his home, and on his way he
met the Secretary, calm, composed, a quiet, cynical smile on his face.

"Well, Mr. Sefton," said Prescott, "it has come."

"Yes," replied the Secretary, "and not sooner than I have expected."

"You are leaving?" said Prescott.

"Yes," replied Mr. Sefton, "I go with the Government. I am part of it,
you know, but I travel light. I have little baggage. I tell you, too,
since you wish to know it, that I asked Miss Catherwood to go with us as
my wife--we could be married in an hour--or, if not that, as a refugee
under the escort of Miss Grayson."

"Well?" said Prescott. His heart beat violently.

"She declined both propositions," replied the Secretary quietly. "She
will stay here and await the coming of the conquerors. After all, why
shouldn't she? She is a Northern sympathizer herself, and a great change
in her position and ours has occurred suddenly."

Their eyes met and Prescott saw his fall a little and for the first
time. The sudden change in positions was, indeed, great and in many
respects.

The Secretary held out his hand.

"Good-by, Captain Prescott," he said. "We have been rivals, but not
altogether enemies. I have always wished you well where your success was
not at the cost of mine. Let us part in friendship, as we may not meet
again."

Prescott took the extended hand.

"I am sorry that chance or fate ever made us rivals," the Secretary went
on. "Maybe we shall not be so any longer, and since I retire from the
scene I tell you I have known all the while that Miss Catherwood was not
a spy. She was there in the President's office that day, and she might
have been one had she yielded to her impulse, but she put the temptation
aside. She has told you this and she told you the full truth. The one
who really took the papers was discovered and punished by me long ago."

"Then why----" began Prescott.

The Secretary made a gesture.

"You ask why I kept this secret?" he said. "It was because it gave me
power over both you and her; over her through you. I knew your part in
it, too. Then I helped Miss Grayson and her when she came back to
Richmond; she could not turn me away. I played upon your foolish
jealousy--I fancy I did that cleverly. I brought her back here to draw
you away from Helen Harley and she drew me, too. She did not intend it,
nor did she wish it; but perhaps she felt her power ever since that
meeting in the Wilderness and knew that she was safe from any
disclosures of mine. But she loved you from the first, Captain Prescott,
and never anybody else. You see, I am frank with myself as I have tried
always to be in all respects. I have lost the field and I retire in
favour of the winner, yourself!"

The Secretary, bowing, walked away. Prescott watched him a minute or
two, but he could see no signs of haste or excitement in the compact,
erect figure. Then he hastened to his mother.

He found her in her parlour, prepared as if for the coming of some one.
There was fervent feeling in her look, but her manner was calm as she
embraced her son. Prescott knew her thoughts, and as he had never yet
found fault with them he could not now at such a time.

"I know everything, Robert," she said. "The Government is about to flee
from Richmond."

"Yes, mother," he replied, "and I brought the order for it to go. Is it
not singular that such a message should have been delivered by your son?
Your side wins, mother."

"I never doubted that it would, not even after that terrible day at Bull
Run and the greater defeats that came later. A cause is lost from the
beginning when it is against the progress of the human race."

There was mingled joy and sadness in her manner--joy that the cause
which she thought right had won; sadness that her friends, none the less
dear because for so many months they had taken another view, should
suffer misfortune.

"Mother," Prescott said presently, "I do not wish to leave you, but I
must go to the cottage of Miss Grayson and Miss Catherwood. There are
likely to be wild scenes in Richmond before the day is over, and they
should not be left alone."

The look that she bent upon her son then was singularly soft and
tender--smiling, too, as if something pleased her.

"They will be here, Robert," she said. "I expect them any minute."

"Here! in this house!" he exclaimed, starting.

"Yes, here in this house," she said triumphantly "It will not be the
first time that Lucia Catherwood has been sheltered behind these walls.
Do you not remember when they wished to arrest her, and Lieutenant
Talbot searched the cottage for her? She was at that very moment here,
in this house, hidden in your own room, though she did not know that it
was yours. I saved her then. Oh, I have known her longer than you
think."

Stirred by a sudden emotion Prescott stooped down and kissed his mother.

"I have always known that you were a wonderful woman," he said, "but I
gave you credit for less courage and daring than you really have."

Some one knocked.

"There they are now," exclaimed Mrs. Prescott, and hurrying forward she
opened the door. Lucia Catherwood and Charlotte Grayson entered. At
first they did not see Prescott, who stood near the window, but when his
tall form met their eyes Miss Grayson uttered a little cry and the
colour rose high in Lucia's face.

I understood immediately that she loved me, and that this picture
a declaration of love should be.

I am not really paid attention to her statement, after I searched
the flight of wild geese Katata, which represents a declaration of
love, had seen so clearly that I could paint him.

I wanted to leave the next day, but went on into the evening, tea
house, where I made five of our painters met.

One dancer had a wild goose flight from Katata already explained, the
other a fisher girl, whose father he lived, the third and fourth and
fifth Katata of other girls, so that we all remember: the character
of the geese flight was a public secret of the young Katata girls
and was always used as a drawing on a vase, a wall screen and so
on, when a girl from a man Katata a declaration of love wanted to
make.

We were up in Kyoto at that time not known. But now know the characters
of the flight of wild geese Katata all children from Kyoto, because the
secret of all painters have spread here, all who were in Katata.
Even the imperial court knows it long, and the young princess is
already all over the yard as ridiculous explained.

The emperor and the empress will be very angry, and you'll even
lose your head if you painted the hall ready and you have imagination,
from the Princess to be loved.

"Oizo thought for a moment, then he laughed and said," Since I do not love
the princess, my yard is not bad, because I use the wild geese fly with
desire to want to paint my painting, not lust for the love of the
character. "" Yes, "said his friend.

"You must flee, you must hide yourself until the temple is dedicated.

One is the hall of the Princess closed and did not show.

But you must continue until the declaration of love of the princess has
forgotten.

I advise you to take a sailboat and keep you for a month at the Lake Biwa
hidden. In the wide water outdoors is nobody looking for you, and
you can dodge the boats.

"I am very difficult to separate from my paintings," said the painter Oizo.
"But you're right.

I want to flee, and I will hide until the room of the princess is
forgotten. "Oizo still left Kyoto in the same night, bought a boat, which
he versah with food, and then moved out onto the lake. But the days were
unfriendly: it was early spring. Many days, the fog as Binding Oizos
before eyes, and he saw nothing and heard nothing in the mist as the
crunching of his boat. One day he let his boat drift, and said to
himself: "I will stop where the boat lands. If I can not paint, kills
me is the boredom. I want to paint at least once again allowed. And now
where the boat landed, I also know I will find an image that I
long ago in the soul has vorgeschwebt. "The boat of the painter in the
evening, drove to the beach of Katata." Oh, unhappy place, "said Oizo.
"Should I really the picture of the flight of wild geese once again
paint?

I want to wait and see what happens with me when I climb ashore. The gods
have steered the boat, the gods will guide my steps. "The painter went
ashore and walked on the empty beach, where no reeds grow, but only the
yellow Schilfstoppeln from the previous year stood." Here the reeds sang
in the previous year when I was busy painting and fish. Now, the beach
is rotten and dead of winter damn, as I am to laziness has condemned.
"Suddenly the painter bent down and lifted an inconspicuous Seemuschel
that iridescent blue and red with iridescent inner shell of white and
black outer shell like a flower among the pebbles on the empty beach
shone. Oizo turned the shell in her hand back and forth, shook his head,
gave the hand to the forehead and thought, and thought to himself:
"Where I have only this iridescent blue slip next to the red
iridescent fire certificate here in Katata ever seen?

I certainly know that in Katata was where I use these two colors side by
side was unforgettable. "As he thought, and yet his memory has not
yet come to the bottom was a Japanese girl came down the hill towards
the sea. She carried on her head a flat basket and poured the
contents of the basket, the earth looked like about twenty steps
from Oizo away into the lake. "What are you doing?" Cried the painter
with her.

The girl looked at him , suddenly stretched out his arms on his own, was
a hissing sound from the horrors as if they are a spirit or a god's face
would look, shrouded her face in her sleeves, knelt at the edge of
lake down and stuck her head into the water. Oizo cried, "Do as the
gods are you speaking your mind because you want to drown, girl? «Oizo
jumped out and as he came closer, he saw that the girls are eager face
washed, and he recognized the face of one half, the soot was still full,
the daughter of the potter, Graswürzelein, from the furnace of her
father the ashes in a basket to the sea had worn.

"What are you doing?" asked Oizo again. "I almost had you not realize
Graswürzelein, because you're half black and half are white." Graswürzelein
prustete the water out of her nose, washed the other half of the face
clean, and while they are with the inner sleeve of her face and hands,
dried she angry at the painter: "I would not even be aware that you
should recognize me. As I take you here so suddenly at the beach is
looked after I Ofenasche thrown into the lake was, and I could not
escape you, I wanted the soot washed from the face so that I would be
unrecognizable to you.

For thou hast mich so only once washed seen. "And really, Oizo whitewashed
girls could hardly recognize." Thou sayest that I have seen you once
washed? I've always known just black. "" Yes, "nodded Graswürzelein. "Do
you remember not to master, because I'll Tonvase on a flight of
wild geese by Katata described?

Do not you remember? It was in the moonlight. You saßt on the old stove
and I am in the yard. "" You were red and blue beschienen, "said Oizo,"
as the shell here, the moon blue and flaming red in my hand irisiert and
lights. This is the image I want to paint here.

I want your face paint, blue and red of the moon from the fire lit. And
that is why I am Katata come. "Graswürzelein laughed for a moment. But
then she was very serious. "No," she said and shook his head. "You can
no longer come into our house. I have the fire who are bad, as long as
you were, and I have my father to many Tonvasen burnt. "" You do
not have a reason that you do not say, "said Oizo. »The Tonvasen I will
pay your father all the while I paint you. Speech and say your reason
why I no longer come into your house is?" Graswürzeleins cheeks blushed,
and she soon felt her hands on the cheeks, around the Wangenröte
with the hands to hide.

Oizo was amazed how beautiful the girl was, and heard her voice
whimpered as rhythmically and sang, while she spoke as if the reed
from the previous year, again by him singers.

"Dost thou not take a boat ride with me , Graswürzelein?

It has a warm air over the lake, and the evenings are long and bright I
think the wild geese have come back again soon. "" Yes, the gods, that's
true, "sighed the little girl. "The wild geese, I would like you show
on the lake, master." And flashed a smile in her eyes, as the wet black
Seekiesel twinkle. "That is the air of the wild goose tonight. You've
never come out of the lake view, master? "No, I saw the wild geese
fly only from land, over hills and tree." "Then I want it from you from
the lake show," the girl nodded eagerly, and her pale face and her
trembling hands, talked fast rates, which they are not proceedings.
Oizo before you climbed into the boat, grabbed the oars and rowed without
a word more to speak, turned the boat without the painter to ask where
he wanted.

Oizo felt and understood in the course redness and pallor of the girl that
she hid a heart excitation. He remained seated and listened silently
to his own heart to him up to the neck suggested. Because the girl was
in his eyes more beautiful, and he would have gladly embraced. The
Lake Biwa was as smooth as oil, and the air was like oil. When you put
two mirror each other, it was the mirror of the evening
Vorfrühlingshimmels on the mirror of the lake.

Graswürzelein suddenly put the oars into the boat and said, "Still!

They come! "And she repeated it:" Still! They come! "Oizo wondered why
he should be quiet because he has not said. He did not know that his
voice continually in the ears of the girl and her blood hummed
disrupted talked with him.

He himself was now the same. He went on and said, "Still! They come!
"Because he heard the girl talking in his blood, - she who spoke not
a word. Then it was as if rowing boats high into the air with a big
oar strokes happen, and as if mills are turned with invisible wheels.
And sounds, not music, not human voices and animal noises are not
compared, but the solemn chords in the stillness of the lake
created, sounded somewhere in the measureless space evening,
district's, were there, were to Abendgrau white flying appearances,
formed a chain the heads of the girl and the man who pulled a mirror
image in the water to see how a series of waving white towels.

The white ghost chain described a white ribbon in the sky and a white
ribbon in the water and noisy as a musical Windton and left breaths of
consternation, of longing, as if the air with unfulfilled wishes
for a long time after the Vorbeizug the wild geese of Katata filled.
It was now so dark on the lake, as if the darkness like a second of water
from the depth and would be increased over the heads of the two
people in the boat.

It was just a remnant of the days of shell, small as a transparent
egg, in the west on the beach. Oizo could not Graswürzeleins face.
He checked the bank in the boat, looked at her hands, which he
wanted to stroke.

But she had her two hands into the wide sleeves of her dress wound,
as if you had her hands amputated. "Give me your hands! I want to warm
you when you frierst. Or are you afraid before Seegeistern bad that you're
in the hands could be? Have no fear, Graswürzelein! You're too nice. All
the gods must protect yourself. Even the evil gods are good gods, if you
ansiehst. "" What do you want from me? "Said the girl.

"Did I not take the flight of wild geese on the lake shown? Hast thou
not their characters can read their letters from the sky and the
water line? "" The declaration of love? "Asked Oizo." The rejection of
love, "whispered hastily aroused and the daughter of the potter.
Oizo And now understood, had the lettering through the mirror in the
sea water came in a different character turns, and when the girl
of his lover Katata this showed he was dismissed.

The airline of the wild geese in the water and the sky, seen from
the lake, in language meant trains translated: "I love not that you're
after me round. I am also not for you to. "What a strange coincidence
that the wild geese fly twice did indicate, depending on the water
line to mirror inserts or not. Graswürzelein him that loved him and just
wanted to tease, when she gave him the rejection and perhaps
approximation to irritate wanted Oizo understood immediately, because
the air around them and it was wonderful geschwängert from silent
desire and affection.

Without to reflect, he laid his arm around the small woman, and there
was no defense. Graswürzelein hid her face with shame only in the painter's
breast garment. Oizo quickly told her: "Thou knowest not Graswürzelein
that I like a dead wood out on the lake since herumtreiben had days that
I finally could not stand that my country was prohibited, because I
love the statement by the princess had to flee. But now, since I use
the double interpretation of the flight of the wild goose knows,
I may be the hall of the Princess ready to paint when I mirror the
adding in the water line.

And nobody in the country will be more able to say that the princess would
have been ridiculed, but that they wanted to make is unapproachable,
as befitting a princess. All should be in the hall, the characters read:
I love not that you're after me umsiehst. I am not even after you order.
Then I come back and build my house in Katata. And thou shalt no
longer your father the oven stir.

Thou shalt sit next to me at my own fire. And I want you to paint, paint
again and again, in the dress of the early spring, on the beach, in
the house, the moon, in water, on fire. And everyone will say: this
is the happiest girl of Katata. She is on all the pictures painted in
the early spring, the warm evening, in which the flight of wild
geese and expects love says, even if no one is talking: _Still!

They come! _ "Then Graswürzelein wrapped her hands from the cuffs
and umschlang Oizo. The swallows shot deep over you feet Swallows
deep shot over thee feet, as was their flight, their mark deep to greet
you. Often eyes on the birds Heaven me How many more clever, the ways
I asked the earth. swallows the morning until late in freedom swam, The
stay in love closely together. They build their nest warm like the man
his roof. They fly from early to late And awake enthusiastic rush
hurtig always the path of their heart. The clock shows no time today
I'm so happy for your kisses, That all things have to feel it. My heart
in my chest is billowing, How a boat in the reeds weighs.

And Rain also falls today without end, it's raining flowers in my
hands. The students', so go through the room, at no point is a clock,
The clock now shows no time, you sign out into eternity. In the mirror
glass you keep the mirror, that her face to the glass fall. And their
superior hand-Adjusts to hair combs. trembles The hair curled. If the
arm to the head hochhebt, Lives in her velvet dress folding 'and waves
around the figure. As she listens to the grass, That grows in the mirror
glass, they seem far from the mirror continued withdrawn. Until she
slowly forgets And no longer knows where they came and who she is.
Then drops the hand with the mirror lame. It looks to be silent blushing,
How the secret lies. Night by night the moon moves behind the ship
together, He is Lord of the evening in the sea, accompanied by night
night driving. I've nachgestarrt researching him, I asked him: "Where
so late?" - He does not know where it goes. Likse and Panulla Likse, a
Chinese water saleswoman, and Panulla a Singhalese lady street, sat
in custody of local police station on the "Yellow Road in Singapore.
It is morning six clock. Both women are in the night drunk on the street
aufgelesen and in the detention room with a grid has been inserted.
Einfenstrige The room is located on the first floor of a one-indigo-blue
house. The lattice window extends to the hallway. Likse and Panulla
are of the chairs on which they slept, got up. They squat on the
ground at the lattice window, look at the lively morning street down
and wait for their release from prison. Likses head is like a yellow,
large, hollow gourd, in which one a light question. Your eyeballs bulging
glow still nights of drunkenness. Panulla has red and white makeup and
powder remains in the face. Your cheeks look like two pieces of artificially
colored sugar. Both faces, the yellow white and pink, stick to the
grill and interested in pursuing the road noise down in the "Yellow
Road" from Singapore.

Nackte Malays, semi, dressed grobblau Chinese, banana distributors, water
carriers, fish vendors, and rickshaw Garküchenkarren confused car racing,
slide and crash on the cobblestones. Wheels and human voices over noise
with ruckhaften sentences. The two women at the windows welcome
grid Known bottom faces nod up, hands waving. Bellowing from street
life shake the iron bars of the grid, because the fingers of the two
women to hold. Likse, the Chinese, has long, black, shiny Kalikohosen
and schräggeknöpfte a blue linen jacket.

Your lehmgelbes grinning face always kindly.

Pushed in your nose sniffs between the iron rods after eagerly down the
road.

Panulla in an old Japanese crepe kimono-gray color of pink, red maple leaf
pointed dyed, crouches on the ground.

Their narrow neck rotates like a heron neck back and forth. It
monitors all passers with a movable head, as she wants an equal Störchin
people like frogs in a swamp to be heraufangeln. The Chinese Likse
is big-boned. Their rough her buttocks and breasts are thick, such as
water melons. Panulla but is like a Heupferdchen narrow and bouncy whets
their knees to the grid if they are well-known sailors on the street
welcomed. Gradually gathers a circle of acquaintances Chinese barber,
Wagenziehern Malay and Chinese Kuliweibern below the window.

Among much yelling they entertain themselves with the trapped women.
One throws up a few bananas, a fish dealer a few small fish. The
breitmäulige Likse devours the living raw fish.
The sun came out bright and strong, the rain dried up, and the
world was again young and beautiful; but the country remained lone and
desolate, and not till nearly noon did he come in contact with human
life. Then he saw a half-dozen horsemen approaching--whether Northern or
Southern he did not care--it did not matter now, and he went on straight
toward them.

But the foremost rider leaped down with a cry of joy and wrung his hand.

"Bob, Bob, old boy!" he said. "We did not know what had become of you
and we had given you up for dead!"

It was Talbot, and Prescott returned his grasp with interest.

"Is it true--true that Lee has surrendered?" he asked, though knowing
well that it was true.

Talbot's eyes became misty.

"Yes, it is all so," he replied. "I was there and I saw it. We went down
to Appomattox and the Yankees came right after us--I don't know how many
strong, but too strong for us. Grant would never let us alone. He was
there at our heels all the time, and Sheridan kept galloping around us,
lopping off every straggling regiment and making our lives miserable.
When we got to Appomattox we found the Yankees were so thick that we
stayed there. We couldn't move. There weren't more than fifteen thousand
of us left, and we were starved and barefoot. The firing around us never
stopped. Grant kept pressing and pressing. Bob, I felt then that
something was going to happen."

Talbot stopped and choked, but in a moment he went on:

"Our generals had a big talk--I don't know what they said, but I know
what they did. A messenger went over to Grant's army, and by and by
General Grant and a lot of officers came and met General Lee and his
staff, and they went into a house and talked a long time. When they came
out it was all over. The Army of Northern Virginia, the victor of so
many great battles, was no more. We couldn't believe it for awhile,
though we knew that it must come. We hung around Marse Bob, and asked
him if it was true, and he said it was. He said when a war was over it
was over. He said we were beaten and we must now stop fighting. He told
us all to go home and go to work. It was an undivided Union; the war had
settled that and we must stick to it. General Grant had promised him
that we shouldn't be harmed, and he told us to think no more of war now,
but to rebuild our homes and our country. We loved Marse Bob in victory,
but we love him just as much now in defeat. We crowded around him and we
shook his hand and we would hardly let him go."

Talbot choked again, and it was a long time until he continued:

"General Grant did everything that he promised General Lee. He's the
right sort all through--so is the Yankee army. I've got nothing against
it. They never insulted us with a single word. We had our own camp and
they sent us over part of their rations. We needed them badly enough;
and then General Grant said that every man among us who had a horse was
to take it--and we did. Here I am on mine, and I reckon you might call
it a gift from the Yankee General."

The little group was silent. They had fought four years, and all had
ended in defeat. Tears were wiped from more than one brown face.

"We're going to Richmond, Bob," said Talbot at last, "and I guess you
are bound that way, too. You haven't any horse. Here, get up behind me."

Prescott accepted the offer, and the silent little group rode on toward
Richmond. On the way there Talbot said:

"Vincent Harley is dead. He was killed at Sailor's Creek. He led a last
charge and was shot through the heart. He must have died instantly, but
he did not even fall from the saddle. When the charge spent its force,
the reins had dropped from his hands, but he was sitting erect--stone
dead. It's a coincidence, but General Markham was killed on the same
day."

"He said, and met with his little finger cuffs in the sleeves back ...
"Excuse me, sir, that you have a minute to take them. Mr. Seehaase - the
owner of the hotel - invites you to an interview of two words. ... A
Formality He is back there ...

Would you have the kindness to join me to try ... It is _nur_ Mr. Seehaase,
the owner of the hotel. "And he led by Tonio Kröger inviting gesture game
in the background of the vestibule.

"Listen and learn," replied Talbot, in sonorous and solemn tones.
"Gentlemen, I offer to the highest bidder and without reserve one
Confederacy, somewhat soiled, battered and damaged, but surrounded by
glorious associations. The former owners having no further use for it,
this valuable piece of property is put upon the market. Who'll buy?
Who'll buy? Come, gentlemen, bid up. You'll never have another such
chance. What do I hear? What do I hear?"

"Thirty cents!" called some one.

"Thirty cents! I am bid thirty cents!" cried Talbot.

"Confederate money," added the bidder.

A laugh arose.

"Do you want me to give you this property?" asked Talbot.

But he could get no higher bid, and he descended from the stump amid
laughter that bordered closely on something else.

Then they resumed their journey.


CHAPTER XXXI

THE COIN OF GOLD


Prescott had been at home some months. Johnston's army, too, had
surrendered. Everywhere the soldiers of the South, seeing that further
resistance would be criminal, laid down their arms. A mighty war, waged
for four years with unparalleled tenacity and strewn all the way with
tremendous battles, ceased with astonishing quickness.

The people of Richmond were already planning the rebuilding of the city;
the youthful were looking forward with hope to the future, and not the
least sanguine among them were a little group gathered as of old in the
newspaper office of Winthrop. They had been discussing their own
purposes.

"I shall stay in Richmond and continue the publication of my newspaper,"
said Winthrop.

"And I shall bring my wandering journal here, give it a permanent home
and be your deadly rival," said Raymond.

"Good!" said Winthrop, and they shook hands on the bargain.

General Wood said nothing about his own happiness, which he considered
assured, because he was to be married to Helen Harley the following
month. But some one spoke presently of the Secretary.

"Gone to England!" said Raymond briefly.

Raymond mentioned a little later a piece of gossip that was being
circulated quietly in Richmond. A million dollars in gold left in the
Confederate treasury had disappeared mysteriously; whether it had been
moved before the flight of the Government or at that time nobody knew.
And art! ... He is undressed, lay down to rest, extinguished the
light.

He whispered two names in the pillow inside, these few chaste, Nordic
syllables to him his true and original love, suffering and Glückesart,
life, the simple and intimate feeling, the designated home. He looked
back on the years since then until this day. He thought of the wild
adventure of the senses, the nerves and the idea that he lived
through, was corroded by irony, and spirit, deserted and paralyzed by
recognizing half aufgerieben by fevers and frost on the creation, unfounded
and conscience troubles between the stark extremes, oestrus between
holiness and thrown back and forth, refined, impoverished, exhausted
from cold and artificially selected Exaltationen, lost, destroyed,
zermartert, sick - and sobbed before repentance and homesick.

To him, it was quiet and dark. But from below sounded subdued and mostly
sweet of life, trivial triple beat him up. IX Tonio Kröger was sitting
in the north and Lisaweta Ivanovna wrote to his girlfriend as he had
promised her. Lisaweta love down there in Arcadia, where I will soon
return will, he wrote. Here is now something like a letter, but he
will probably disappoint you, because I think him a bit to hold in general.
Not that I have nothing to tell, my way is not this and that would
have experienced.

At home, my father in town, wanted to arrest me even ... However you should
hear orally. I now have some days when I prefer a good nature to say
something general, instead of stories to tell.

You know well yet, Lisaweta to me once a citizen, a citizen called
lost?

They called me within an hour, because I am, seduced by other
confessions, which I had previously entschlüpfen let my love for
the confessed what I> life <call, and I wonder if you might know
how so much you were the truth, how much my middle and my love for
the> life <one and the same thing.

This trip has given me reason to think about ...
"I will take it," he said, "on one condition."

"What is that?"

"That you come with it."

She flushed a rosy red.

"Won't you come, Lucia?" he said. "Life is not life without you."

"Yes," she said softly, "I will come."


THE END.