Kate walked back to the highway, but instead of going on she
turned toward home.  When she reached the gate she saw Nancy
Ellen, dressed her prettiest, sitting beneath a cherry tree
reading a book, in very plain view from the road.  As Kate came up
the path:  "Hello!" said Nancy Ellen.  "Wasn't Adam at home?"

"I don't know," answered Kate.  "I was not there."

"You weren't?  Why, where were you?" asked Nancy Ellen.

"Oh, I just took a walk!" answered Kate.

"Right at dinner time on Sunday?  Well, I'll be switched!" cried
Nancy Ellen.

"Pity you weren't oftener, when you most needed it," said Kate,
passing up the walk and entering the door.  Her mother asked the
same questions so Kate answered them.

"Well, I am glad you came home," said Mrs. Michael, which is held
to be a marvellous thing, with a child in swaddling-clothes,
which appears alive, in the arms of a woman.

For the Nuns of the Murate at Arezzo he painted the Chapel of the
High-Altar, a work which is truly much extolled. At Monte San
Savino he painted a shrine opposite to the Palace of Cardinal
di Monte, which was held very beautiful.

And at Borgo San Sepolcro, where there is now the Vescovado, he
decorated a chapel, which brought him very great praise and profit.

Don Clemente was a man of very versatile intelligence, and,
besides being a great musician, he made organs of lead with his
own hand.

In S.
Domenico he made one of cardboard, which has ever remained sweet and
good; and in S.

Clemente there was another, also by his hand, which was placed on
high, with the keyboard below on the level of the choir--truly
with very beautiful judgment, since, the place being such that the
monks were few, he wished that the organist should sing as well as
play.

And since this Abbot loved his Order, like a true minister and not
a squanderer of the things of God, he enriched that place greatly
with buildings and pictures, particularly by rebuilding the principal
chapel of his church and painting the whole of it; and in two niches,
one on either side of it, he painted a S.

Rocco and a S. Bartholomew, which were ruined together with
the church.

But to return to the Abbot, who was a good and worthy churchman.

He left a disciple in painting named Maestro Lappoli, an Aretine,
who was an able and practised painter, as is shown by the works
from his hand which are in S. Agostino, in the Chapel of S.
Sebastiano, where there is that Saint wrought in relief by the
same man, with figures round him, in painting, of S.

Biagio, S. Rocco, S. Anthony of Padua, and S.
Bernardino; while on the arch of the chapel is an Annunciation,
and on the vaulting are the four Evangelists, wrought in fresco
with a high finish.
"Why, you must be crazy!" said Nancy Ellen.

"Would I be any crazier than you, when you wanted to go?" asked
Kate.

"But you were here to help Mother," said Nancy Ellen.

"And you are here to help her now," persisted Kate.

"But I've got to fix up my clothes for the County Institute," said
Nancy Ellen, "I'll be gone most of the summer."

"I have just as much right to go as you had," said Kate.

"Father and Mother both say you shall not go," answered her
sister.

"I suppose there is no use to remind you that I did all in my
power to help you to your chance."

"You did no more than you should have done," said Nancy Ellen.

"And this is no more than you should do for me, in the
circumstances," said Kate.

"You very well know I can't!  Father and Mother would turn me out
of the house," said Nancy Ellen.

"I'd be only too glad if they would turn me out," said Kate.  "You
can let me have the money if you like.  Mother wouldn't do
anything but talk; and Father would not strike you, or make you
go, he always favours you."

"He does nothing of the sort!  I can't, and I won't, so there!"
cried Nancy Ellen.

"'Won't,' is the real answer, 'so there,'" said Kate.

She went into the cellar and ate some cold food from the cupboard
and drank a cup of milk.  Then she went to her room and looked
over all of her scanty stock of clothing, laying in a heap the
pieces that needed mending.  She took the clothes basket to the
wash room, which was the front of the woodhouse, in summer; built
a fire, heated water, and while making it appear that she was
putting the clothes to soak, as usual, she washed everything she
had that was fit to use, hanging the pieces to dry in the
building.

"Watch me fly!" muttered Kate.  "I don't seem to be cutting those
curves so very fast; but I'm moving.  I believe now, having
exhausted all home resources, that Adam is my next objective.  He
is the only one in the family who ever paid the slightest
attention to me, maybe he cares a trifle what becomes of me, but
Oh, how I dread Agatha!  However, watch me take wing!  If Adam
fails me I have six remaining prospects among my loving brothers,
and if none of them has any feeling for me or faith in me there
yet remain my seven dear brothers-in-law, before I appeal to the
tender mercies of the neighbours; but how I dread Agatha!  Yet I
fly!"


AN EMBRYO MIND READER

KATE was far from physical flight as she pounded the indignation
of her soul into the path with her substantial feet.  Baffled and
angry, she kept reviewing the situation as she went swiftly on her
way, regardless of dust and heat.  She could see no justice in
being forced into a position that promised to end in further
humiliation and defeat of her hopes.  If she only could find Adam
at the stable, as she passed, and talk with him alone!  Secretly,
she well knew that the chief source of her dread of meeting her
sister-in-law was that to her Agatha was so funny that ridiculing
her had been regarded as perfectly legitimate pastime.  For Agatha
WAS funny; but she had no idea of it, and could no more avoid it
than a bee could avoid being buzzy, so the manner in which her
sisters-in-law imitated her and laughed at her, none too secretly,
was far from kind.  While she never guessed what was going on, she
realized the antagonism in their attitude and stoutly resented it.

Adam was his father's favourite son, a stalwart, fine-appearing,
big man, silent, honest, and forceful; the son most after the
desires of the father's heart, yet Adam was the one son of the
seven who had ignored his father's law that all of his boys were
to marry strong, healthy young women, poor women, working women.
Each of the others at coming of age had contracted this prescribed
marriage as speedily as possible, first asking father Bates, the
girl afterward.  If father Bates disapproved, the girl was never
asked at all.  And the reason for this docility on the part of
these big, matured men, lay wholly in the methods of father Bates.
He gave those two hundred acres of land to each of them on coming
of age, and the same sum to each for the building of a house and
barn and the purchase of stock; gave it to them in words, and with
the fullest assurance that it was theirs to improve, to live on,
to add to.  Each of them had seen and handled his deed, each had
to admit he never had known his father to tell a lie or deviate
the least from fairness in a deal of any kind, each had been
compelled to go in the way indicated by his father for years; but
not a man of them held his own deed.  These precious bits of paper
remained locked in the big wooden chest beside the father's bed,
while the land stood on the records in his name; the taxes they
paid him each year he, himself, carried to the county clerk; so
that he was the largest landholder in the county and one of the
very richest men.  It must have been extreme unction to his soul
to enter the county office and ask for the assessment on those
"little parcels of land of mine."  Men treated him very
deferentially, and so did his sons.  Domenico in Pesaro. In the
Church of S. Zaccheria in Venice, in the Chapel of S. Girolamo,
there is a panel of Our Lady and many saints, executed with
great diligence, with a building painted with much judgment; and
in the same city, in the Sacristy of the Friars Minor, called the
"Cà Grande," there is another by the same man's hand, wrought with
beautiful design and a good manner.

There is likewise one in S.
Michele di Murano, a monastery of Monks of Camaldoli; and in the
old Church of S. Francesco della Vigna, a seat of the Frati del
Zoccolo, there was a picture of a Dead Christ, so beautiful
that it was highly extolled before Louis XI, King of France,
whereupon he demanded it from its owners with great insistence,
so that they were forced, although very unwillingly, to gratify his
wish. In its place there was put another with the name of the
same Giovanni, but not so beautiful or so well executed as
the first; and some believe that this substitute was wrought for
the most part by Girolamo Moretto, a pupil of Giovanni. The
Confraternity of S. Girolamo also possesses a work with little
figures by the same Bellini, which is much extolled. And in the
house of Messer Giorgio Cornaro there is a picture, likewise
very beautiful, containing Christ, Cleophas, and Luke.

In the aforesaid Hall he also painted, though not at the same time,
a scene of the Venetians summoning forth from the Monastery of the
Carità
a Pope--I know not which--who, having fled to Venice, had secretly
served for a long time as cook to the monks of that monastery; in
which scene there are many portraits from the life, and other very
beautiful figures.

[Illustration: MADONNA AND SAINTS
(_After the panel by =Giovanni Bellini=. Venice: S. Francesco della
Vigna_)
_Anderson_]
No long time after, certain portraits were taken to Turkey by
an ambassador as presents for the Grand Turk, which caused
such astonishment and marvel to that Emperor, that, although pictures
are forbidden among that people by the Mahometan law, nevertheless
he accepted them with great good-will, praising the art and the
craftsman without ceasing; and what is more, he demanded that the
master of the work should be sent to him. Whereupon the Senate,
considering that Giovanni had reached an age when he could ill
endure hardships, not to mention that they did not wish to deprive
their own city of so great a man, particularly because he was then
engaged on the aforesaid Hall of the Great Council, determined to
send his brother Gentile, believing that he would do as well as
Giovanni.

Therefore, having caused Gentile to make his preparations, they
brought him safely in their own galleys to Constantinople, where,
after being presented by the Commissioner of the Signoria
to Mahomet, he was received very willingly and treated with
much favour as something new, above all after he had given that
Prince a most lovely picture, which he greatly admired, being
wellnigh unable to believe that a mortal man had within himself
so much divinity, so to speak, as to be able to represent the
objects of nature so vividly.
Gentile had been there no long time when he portrayed the
Emperor Mahomet from the life so well, that it was held a miracle.
That Emperor, after having seen many specimens of his art, asked
Gentile whether he had the courage to paint his own portrait; and
Gentile, having answered "Yes," did not allow many days to pass
before he had made his own portrait with a mirror, with such
resemblance that it appeared alive.
This he brought to the Sultan, who marvelled so greatly thereat,
that he could not but think that he had some divine spirit within
him; and if it had not been that the exercise of this art, as has
been said, is forbidden by law among the Turks, that Emperor
would never have allowed Gentile to go. But either in fear
of murmurings, or for some other reason, one day he summoned him
to his presence, and after first causing him to be thanked for
the courtesy that he had shown, and then praising him in marvellous
fashion as a man of the greatest excellence, he bade him demand
whatever favour he wished, for it would be granted to him without
fail.

Gentile, like the modest and upright man that he was, asked for
nothing save a letter of recommendation to the most Serene
Senate and the most Illustrious Signoria of Venice, his native
city.
This was written in the warmest possible terms, and afterwards
he was dismissed with honourable gifts and with the dignity of
Chevalier. Among other things given to him at parting by that
Sovereign, in addition to many privileges, there was placed round
his neck a chain wrought in the Turkish manner, equal in weight
to 250 gold crowns, which is still in the hands of his heirs in
Venice.

"Women are to work and to bear children,"
said the elder Bates.  "Put them at the first job when they are
born, and at the second at eighteen, and keep them hard at it."

At their rate of progression several of the Bates sons and
daughters would produce families that, with a couple of pairs of
twins, would equal the sixteen of the elder Bates; but not so
Agatha.  She had one son of fifteen and one daughter of ten, and
she said that was all she intended to have, certainly it was all
she did have; but she further aggravated matters by announcing
that she had had them because she wanted them; at such times as
she intended to; and that she had the boy first and five years the
older, so that he could look after his sister when they went into
company.  Also she walked up and sat upon Adam's lap whenever she
chose, ruffled his hair, pulled his ears, and kissed him squarely
on the mouth, with every appearance of having help, while the
dance on the front porch with her son or daughter was of daily
occurrence.  And anything funnier than Agatha, prim and angular
with never a hair out of place, stiffly hopping "Money Musk" and
"Turkey In The Straw," or the "Blue Danube" waltz, anything
funnier than that, never happened.  But the two Adams, Jr. and 3d,
watched with reverent and adoring eyes, for she was MOTHER, and no
one else on earth rested so high in their respect as the
inflexible woman they lived with.  That she was different from all
the other women of her time and location was hard on the other
women.  Had they been exactly right, they would have been exactly
like her.

So Kate, thinking all these things over, her own problem acutely
"advanced and proceeded."  She advanced past the closed barn, and
stock in the pasture, past the garden flaming June, past the
dooryard, up the steps, down the hall, into the screened back
porch dining room and "proceeded" to take a chair, while the
family finished the Sunday night supper, at which they were
seated.  Kate was not hungry and she did not wish to trouble her
sister-in-law to set another place, so she took the remaining
chair, against the wall, behind Agatha, facing Adam, 3d, across
the table, and with Adam Jr., in profile at the head, and little
Susan at the foot.  Then she waited her chance.  Being tired and
aggressive she did not wait long.

"I might as well tell you why I came," she said bluntly.  "Father
won't give me money to go to Normal, as he has all the others.  He
says I have got to stay at home and help Mother."

"Well, Mother is getting so old she needs help," said Adam, Jr.,
as he continued his supper.

"Of course she is," said Kate.  "We all know that.  But what is
the matter with Nancy Ellen helping her, while I take my turn at
Normal?  There wasn't a thing I could do last summer to help her
off that I didn't do, even to lending her my best dress and
staying at home for six Sundays because I had nothing else fit to
wear where I'd be seen."

No one said a word.  Kate continued:  "Then Father secured our
home school for her and I had to spend the winter going to school
to her, when you very well know that I always studied harder, and
was ahead of her, even after she'd been to Normal.  And I got up
early and worked late, and cooked, and washed, and waited on her,
while she got her lessons and reports ready, and fixed up her nice
new clothes, and now she won't touch the work, and she is doing
all she can to help Father keep me from going."

"I never knew Father to need much help on anything he made up his
mind to," said Adam.

Kate sat very tense.  She looked steadily at her brother, but he
looked quite as steadily at his plate.  The back of her sister-in-
law was fully as expressive as her face.  Her head was very erect,
her shoulders stiff and still, not a curl moved as she poured
Adam's tea and Susan's milk.  Only Adam, 3d, looked at Kate with
companionable eyes, as if he might feel a slight degree of
interest or sympathy, so she found herself explaining directly to
him.

"Things are blame unfair in our family, anyway!" she said,
bitterly.  "You have got to be born a boy to have any chance worth
while; if you are a girl it is mighty small, and if you are the
youngest, by any mischance, you have none at all.  I don't want to
harp things over; but I wish you would explain to me why having
been born a few years after Nancy Ellen makes me her slave, and
cuts me out of my chance to teach, and to have some freedom and
clothes. They might as well have told Hiram he was not to have any
land and stay at home and help Father because he was the youngest
boy; it would have been quite as fair; but nothing like that
happens to the boys of this family, it is always the girls who get
left.  I have worked for years, knowing every cent I saved and
earned above barely enough to cover me, would go to help pay for
Hiram's land and house and stock; but he wouldn't turn a hand to
help me, neither will any of the rest of you."

"Then what are you here for?" asked Adam.

"Because I am going to give you, and every other brother and
sister I have, the chance to REFUSE to loan me enough to buy a few
clothes and pay my way to Normal, so I can pass the examinations,
and teach this fall.  And when you have all refused, I am going to
the neighbours, until I find someone who will loan me the money I
need.  A hundred dollars would be plenty.  I could pay it back
with two months' teaching, with any interest you say."

Kate paused, short of breath, her eyes blazing, her cheeks red.
Adam went steadily on with his supper.  Agatha appeared stiffer
and more uncompromising in the back than before, which Kate had
not thought possible.  But the same dull red on the girl's cheeks
had begun to burn on the face of young Adam. Suddenly he broke
into a clear laugh.

"Oh, Ma, you're too funny!" he cried.  "I can read your face like
a book.  I bet you ten dollars I can tell you just word for word
what you are going to say.  I dare you let me!  You know I can!"
Still laughing, his eyes dancing, a picture to see, he stretched
his arm across the table toward her, and his mother adored him,
however she strove to conceal the fact from him.

"Ten dollars!" she scoffed.  "When did we become so wealthy?  I'll
give you one dollar if you tell me exactly what I was going to
say."

The boy glanced at his father.  "Oh this is too easy!" he cried.
"It's like robbing the baby's bank!"  And then to his mother:
"You were just opening your lips to say:  'Give it to her!  If you
don't, I will!'  And you are even a little bit more of a brick
than usual to do it.  It's a darned shame the way all of them
impose on Kate."

There was a complete change in Agatha's back.  Adam, Jr., laid
down his fork and stared at his wife in deep amazement.  Adam, 3d,
stretched his hand farther toward his mother.  "Give me that
dollar!" he cajoled.

"Well, I am not concealing it in the sleeve of my garments," she
said.  "If I have one, it is reposing in my purse, in
juxtaposition to the other articles that belong there, and if you
receive it, it will be bestowed upon you when I deem the occasion
suitable."

Young Adam's fist came down with a smash.  Antonio, brother of
Bernardo (to return at length to the point whence, with so
fair an occasion, I digressed), wrought his sculptures about
the year 1490; and since the more men's works display diligence
and difficulties the more they are admired, and these two
characteristics are particularly noticeable in Antonio's works,
he deserves fame and honour as a most illustrious example
from which modern sculptors have been able to learn how those
statues should be made that are to secure the greatest praise
and fame by reason of their difficulties.Hurrah for hurrah, Kate!  Nancy Ellen may wash her own
petticoat in the morning, while I take you to the train.  You'll
let me, Father?  You did let me go to Hartley alone, once.  I'll
be careful!  I won't let a thing happen.  I'll come straight home.
And oh, my dollar, you and me; I'll put you in the bank and let
you grow to three!"

"You may go," said his father, promptly.

"You shall proceed according to your Aunt Katherine's
instructions," said his mother, at the same time.

"Katie, get your carpet-sack!  When do we start?" It is reported
that the said panel was placed in that church after the death of
Costa, who, having finished his life in Mantua, in which city his
descendants have lived ever since, wished to have a burial-place
in that church both for himself and for his successors.

"You may have mine," said Agatha.  "You are perfectly welcome to
take it wherever your peregrinations lead you, and return it when
you please.  I shall proceed to my chamber and formulate your
check immediately.  You are also welcome to my best hat and cape,
and any of my clothing or personal adornments you can use to
advantage."

"Oh, Agatha, I wish you were as big as a house, like me," said
Kate, joyfully.  "I couldn't possibly crowd into anything you
wear, but it would almost tickle me to death to have Nancy Ellen
know you let me take your things, when she won't even offer me a
dud of her old stuff; I never remotely hoped for any of the new."

"You shall have my cape and hat, anyway.  The cape is new and very
fashionable.  Come upstairs and try the hat," said Agatha.

The cape was new and fashionable as Agatha had said; it would not
fasten at the neck, but there would be no necessity that it should
during July and August, while it would improve any dress it was
worn with on a cool evening.  In this part, also, Gentile painted
the Piazza and the façade of S. Marco, and the sea, but in another
manner, with so great a multitude of men that it is truly a marvel.
Then in another part the same Pope, standing in his pontifical
robes, is giving his benediction to the Doge, who appears to be
setting out for the fray, armed, and with many soldiers at his
back; behind the Doge are seen innumerable noblemen in a long
procession, and in the same part are the Palace and S. Marco, drawn
in perspective.When they went downstairs Adam, Jr., had a
horse hitched and Adam, 3d, drove her to her home, where, at the
foot of the garden, they took one long survey of the landscape and
hid the telescope behind the privet bush.  Then Adam drove away
quietly, Kate entered the dooryard from the garden, and soon
afterward went to the wash room and hastily ironed her clothing.

