This eBook was produced by Tapio Riikonen
and David Widger, widger@cecomet.net


BOOK V.


DEATH AND LOVE.


CHAPTER I.


Harold, without waiting once more to see Edith, nor even taking leave
of his father, repaired to Dunwich [124], the capital of his earldom.
In his absence, the King wholly forgot Algar and his suit; and in the
mean while the only lordships at his disposal, Stigand, the grasping
bishop, got from him without an effort.  In much wrath, Earl Algar, on
the fourth day, assembling all the loose men-at-arms he could find
around the metropolis, and at the head of a numerous disorderly band,
took his way into Wales, with his young daughter Aldyth, to whom the
crown of a Welch king was perhaps some comfort for the loss of the
fair Earl; though the rumour ran that she had long since lost her
heart to her father's foe.

Edith, after a long homily from the King, returned to Hilda; nor did
her godmother renew the subject of the convent.  All she said on
parting, was, "Even in youth the silver cord may be loosened, and the
golden bowl may be broken; and rather perhaps in youth than in age,
when the heart has grown hard, wilt thou recall with a sigh my
counsels."

Godwin had departed to Wales; all his sons were at their several
lordships; Edward was left alone to his monks and relic-venders.  And
so months passed.

Now it was the custom with the old kings of England to hold state and
wear their crowns thrice a year, at Christmas, at Easter, and at
Whitsuntide; and in those times their nobles came round them, and
there was much feasting and great pomp.

So, in the Easter of the year of our Lord 1053, King Edward kept his
court at Windshore [125], and Earl Godwin and his sons, and many
others of high degree, left their homes to do honour to the King.  And
Earl Godwin came first to his house in London--near the Tower
Palatine, in what is now called the Fleet--and Harold the Earl, and
Tostig, and Leofwine, and Gurth, were to meet him there, and go
thence, with the full state of their sub-thegns, and cnehts, and
house-carles, their falcons, and their hounds, as become men of such
rank, to the court of King Edward.

Earl Godwin sate with his wife, Githa, in a room out of the Hall,
which looked on the Thames,--awaiting Harold, who was expected to
arrive ere nightfall.  Gurth had ridden forth to meet his brother, and
Leofwine and Tostig had gone over to Southwark, to try their band-dogs
on the great bear, which had been brought from the north a few days
before, and was said to have hugged many good hounds to death, and a
large train of thegns and house-carles had gone with them to see the
sport; so that the old Earl and his lady the Dane sate alone.  And
there was a cloud upon Earl Godwin's large forehead, and he sate by
the fire, spreading his hands before it, and looking thoughtfully on
the flame, as it broke through the smoke which burst out into the
cover, or hole in the roof.  And in that large house there were no
less than three "covers," or rooms, wherein fires could be lit in the
centre of the floor; and the rafters above were blackened with the
smoke; and in those good old days, ere chimneys, if existing, were
much in use, "poses, and rheumatisms, and catarrhs," were unknown, so
wholesome and healthful was the smoke.  the shadows all have fled--the
night Is clear, the stars shine out, the moon's pale light Is falling
on your face; look up and know The fading of the shadows 'neath the
glow Of night, is but the emblem of the rays Of happiness that now
shall gild your days."
He takes her hand in his--and love's sweet thrill Runs through her
veins, vague dreams her sense fill.
Her face grows childlike in its faith again, He heart yields up its
wealth of doubt and pain, Her soft, dark eyes reveal their depths
of fire.

"For fame my heart has never more desire, Were all our planets moons,
night could not know The glory of the day, nor evening show The
splendor of the sun--his light is best.
So, were each heart to worship at my shrine, All filled with love,
it could not equal thine, For thine is more to me than all the
rest.
Then, like the purple pansies, bending low, That yield unto the sun
their royal glow, Unto the sun-god of my life and years I'll yield
my love, and know no idle fears.

The meteor has flashed across the skies, Yet in its place a star of
beauty lies; Adrift into the azure seas above That star shall sail
on wings of hope and love, While fame, the meteor that mocks the
sight, Shall die upon the earth--a faded light.

And now, for thee alone, my heart shall sing, Far from my sight my
crown of fame I'll fling, And in its stead, the diadem I'll wear
Of love and womanhood--earth's crown most fair."

Out on the terrace, where the moonlight falls In silver radiance
o'er the time-stained walls, A man and woman stand--he, strong and
fair, She, lovelier than the flowers that scent the air.

Her eyes are velvety and soft and brown, Her hair--a shimmering
splendor falls low down, Her dark robes sweep the marble floor; one
hand Is clasped in his; in silence now they stand, No need of words
when silence speaketh more Than all the wealth of speech, or written
lore.

Her eyes are turned to his; no more they grieve; Oh, who can tell the
spell that love doth weave?
The music of the stars, a faint, sweet strain, Floats down--an echo
of their heart's refrain.

Two lives that glow as bright as heaven's own-- Two stars, that in
the night have closer grown, God sets the music in each soul; no
hand But that of LOVE the music can command.

The song of life is done--the tale is told, God grant the chain may
count some links of gold.
A woman's life--a man's true love--a song-- What dreams of life may
not to these belong!

The weaving of a story, old yet new, Life's strange, sad mingling
of the false and true.

"Githa," replied the Earl, "thou speakest as the daughter of kings and
the mother of men; but listen to me, for my soul is heavy.  Of these
our sons, or first-born, alas! is a wanderer and outcast--Sweyn, once
the beautiful and brave; and Wolnoth, thy darling, is a guest in the
court of the Norman, our foe.  Of the rest, Gurth is so mild and so
calm, that I predict without fear that he will be warrior of fame, for
the mildest in hall are ever the boldest in field.  But Gurth hath not
the deep wit of these tangled times; and Leofwine is too light, and
Tostig too fierce.  So wife mine, of these our six sons, Harold alone,
dauntless as Tostig, mild as Gurth, hath his father's thoughtful
brain.  And, if the King remains as aloof as now from his royal
kinsman, Edward the Atheling, who"--the Earl hesitated and looked
round--"who so near to the throne when I am no more, as Harold, the
joy of the ceorls, and the pride of the thegns?--he whose tongue never
falters in the Witan, and whose arm never yet hath known defeat in the
field?"

Githa's heart swelled, and her cheek grew flushed.

"But what I fear the most," resumed the Earl, "is, not the enemy
without, but the jealousy within.  By the side of Harold stands
Tostig, rapacious to grasp, but impotent to hold--able to ruin,
strengthless to save."

"Nay, Godwin, my lord, thou wrongest our handsome son."

"Wife, wife," said the Earl, stamping his foot, "hear me and obey me;
for my words on earth may be few, and while thou gainsayest me the
blood mounts to my brain, and my eyes see through a cloud."

"Forgive me, sweet lord," said Githa, humbly.

"Mickle and sore it repents me that in their youth I spared not the
time from my worldly ambition to watch over the hearts of my sons; and
thou wert too proud of the surface without, to look well to the
workings within, and what was once soft to the touch is now hard to
the hammer.  In the battle of life the arrows we neglect to pick up,
Fate, our foe, will store in her quiver; we have armed her ourselves
with the shafts--the more need to beware with the shield.  Wherefore,
if thou survivest me, and if, as I forebode, dissension break out
between Harold and Tostig, I charge thee by memory of our love, and
reverence for my grave, to deem wise and just all that Harold deems
just and wise.  For when Godwin is in the dust, his House lives alone
in Harold.  Heed me now, and heed ever.  And so, while the day yet
lasts, I will go forth into the marts and the guilds, and talk with
the burgesses, and smile on their wives, and be, to the last, Godwin
the smooth and the strong."

So saying; the old Earl arose, and walked forth with a firm step; and
his old hound sprang up, pricked its ears, and followed him; the
blinded falcon turned its head towards the clapping door, but did not
stir from the dossel.

Then Githa again leant her cheek on her hand, and again rocked herself
to and fro, gazing into the red flame of the fire,--red and fitful
through the blue smoke,--and thought over her lord's words.  It might
be the third part of an hour after Godwin had left the house, when the
door opened, and Githa, expecting the return of her sons, looked up
eagerly, but it was Hilda, who stooped her head under the vault of the
door; and behind Hilda came two of her maidens, bearing a small cyst,
or chest. Nothing can be more collected and intelligent in many respects
than his conduct in prison. He was conversing with the gaoler, and
seemed not disinclined to unburden his mind, when he suddenly
stopped and enquired from the gaoler whether such conversations as
that which he was holding went beyond the prison walls.

On being informed that no security could be given that they would
remain secret, he said he should hold his tongue, but that all would
come out by and by.

She loved to live her youth over again in
discourse on the wild customs and dark rites of the Dane; and even her
awe itself had the charm which the ghost tale has to the child;--for
the illiterate are ever children.  So, recovering her surprise, and
her first pause, she rose to welcome the Vala, and said:

"Hail, Hilda, and thrice hail!  The day has been warm and the way
long; and, ere thou takest food and wine, let me prepare for thee the
bath for thy form, or the bath for thy feet.  For as sleep to the
young, is the bath to the old."

Hilda shook her head.

"Bringer of sleep am I, and the baths I prepare are in the halls of
Valhalla.  Offer not to the Vala the bath for mortal weariness, and
the wine and the food meet for human guests.  Sit thee down, daughter
of the Dane, and thank thy new gods for the past that hath been thine.
Not ours is the present, and the future escapes from our dreams; but
the past is ours ever, and all eternity cannot revoke a single joy
that the moment hath known."

Then seating herself in Godwin's large chair, she leant over her seid-
staff, and was silent, as if absorbed in her thoughts.

"Githa," she said at last, "where is thy lord?  I came to touch his
hands and to look on his brow."

"He hath gone forth into the mart, and my sons are from home; and
Harold comes hither, ere night, from his earldom."

A faint smile, as of triumph, broke over the lips of the Vala, and
then as suddenly yielded to an expression of great sadness.

"Githa," she said, slowly, "doubtless thou rememberest in thy young
days to have seen or heard of the terrible hell-maid Belsta?"

"Ay, ay," answered Githa shuddering; "I saw her once in gloomy
weather, driving before her herds of dark grey cattle.  Ay, ay; and my
father beheld her ere his death, riding the air on a wolf, with a
snake for a bridle.  Why askest thou?"

"Is it not strange," said Hilda, evading the question, that Belsta,
and Heidr, and Hulla of old, the wolf-riders, the men-devourers, could
win to the uttermost secrets of galdra, though applied only to
purposes the direst and fellest to man, and that I, though ever in the
future,--I, though tasking the Nornas not to afflict a foe, but to
shape the careers of those I love,--I find, indeed, my predictions
fulfilled; but how often, alas! only in horror and doom!"

"How so, kinswoman, how so?" said Githa, awed yet charmed in the awe,
and drawing her chair nearer to the mournful sorceress.  "Didst thou
not fortell our return in triumph from the unjust outlawry, and, lo,
it hath come to pass? and hast thou not" (here Githa's proud face
flushed) "foretold also that my stately Harold shall wear the diadem
of a king?"

"Truly, the first came to pass," said Hilda; "but----" she paused, and
her eye fell on the cyst; then breaking off she continued, speaking to
herself rather than to Githa--"And Harold's dream, what did that
portend? the runes fail me, and the dead give no voice.  And beyond
one dim day, in which his betrothed shall clasp him with the arms of a
bride, all is dark to my vision--dark--dark.  Speak not to me, Githa;
for a burthen, heavy as the stone on a grave, rests on a weary heart!"

A dead silence succeeded, till, pointing with her staff to the fire,
the Vala said, "Lo, where the smoke and the flame contend--the smoke
rises in dark gyres to the air, and escapes, to join the wrack of
clouds.  From the first to the last we trace its birth and its fall;
from the heart of the fire to the descent in the rain, so is it with
human reason, which is not the light but the smoke; it struggles but
to darken us; it soars but to melt in the vapour and dew.  Yet, lo,
the flame burns in our hearth till the fuel fails, and goes at last,
none know whither.  But it lives in the air though we see it not; it
lurks in the stone and waits the flash of the steel; it coils round
the dry leaves and sere stalks, and a touch re-illumines it; it plays
in the marsh--it collects in the heavens--it appals us in the
lightning--it gives warmth to the air--life of our life, and the
element of all elements.  O Githa, the flame is the light of the soul,
the element everlasting; and it liveth still, when it escapes from our
view; it burneth in the shapes to which it passes; it vanishes, but
its never extinct."

So saying, the Vala's lips again closed; and again both the women sate
silent by the great fire, as it flared and flickered over the deep
lines and high features of Githa, the Earl's wife, and the calm,
unwrinkled, solemn face of the melancholy Vala.


CHAPTER II.


While these conferences took place in the house of Godwin, Harold, on
his way to London, dismissed his train to precede him to his father's
roof, and, striking across the country, rode fast and alone towards
the old Roman abode of Hilda.  Months had elapsed since he had seen or
heard of Edith.  News at that time, I need not say, was rare and
scarce, and limited to public events, either transmitted by special
nuncius or passing pilgrim, or borne from lip to lip by the talk of
the scattered multitude.  But even in his busy and anxious duties,
Harold had in vain sought to banish from his heart the image of that
young girl, whose life he needed no Vala to predict to him was
interwoven with the fibres of his own.  The obstacles which, while he
yielded to, he held unjust and tyrannical, obstacles allowed by his
reluctant reason and his secret ambition--not sanctified by
conscience--only inflamed the deep strength of the solitary passion
his life had known; a passion that, dating from the very childhood of
Edith, had, often unknown to himself, animated his desire of fame, and
mingled with his visions of power.  Nor, though hope was far and dim,
was it extinct.  The legitimate heir of Edward the Confessor was a
prince living in the Court of the Emperor, of fair repute, and himself
wedded; and Edward's health, always precarious, seemed to forbid any
very prolonged existence to the reigning king.  Therefore, he thought
that through the successor, whose throne would rest in safety upon
Harold's support, he might easily obtain that dispensation from the
Pope which he knew the present king would never ask--a dispensation
rarely indeed, if ever, accorded to any subject, and which, therefore,
needed all a king's power to back it.

So in that hope, and fearful lest it should be quenched for ever by
Edith's adoption of the veil and the irrevocable vow, with a beating,
disturbed, but joyful heart he rode over field and through forest to
the old Roman house.

A maiden sat where the pansies grew, In a golden shower of light;
And she heard the words of the sighing rose, Borne near in the
wind's swift flight.
"Ah, rose!"

she cried, "I am like to you; There's never a heart in this world that's
true; I yielded a love that's thrown away, And I'm weary of life on
this summer's day.

"But listen, my rose, and I'll tell you, sweet, The lesson I learned
to-day; There's never a heart in this wide, wide world That was
born to be thrown away.

The sun may smile as he sails away In the depths of his azure seas for
aye; But the rose that blooms in the garden of love, Is as fair
as the sun to our God above.

"The smallest flower that slakes her thirst In the dews of the early
morn, Is as great as the stars in heaven above, The greatest that
ever was born.

The love we give on this earth of ours Is treasured in heaven through
all the hours, And the crimson heart of the proud queen-rose Is as fair
a gem as the earth-land knows."
The queen-rose listened and held her breath As the maiden passed
her by, And then, with a grace that was fearless and grand She
lifted her face to the sky.

And never again, when the day was done, Did she long for the love of
the golden sun; For the lesson she learned on that summer's day Lay
deep in her heart forever and aye.

Twin Lilies.

Twin lilies in the river floating, Two lilies pure and white; And one
is pale and faintly drooping, The other glad and bright.

Twin lilies in the silvery waters, Two lilies white and frail; And
one is ever laughing gladly, The other, still and pale.

Upon the peaceful gleaming waters, They linger side by side; And
one, her head is drooping sadly; The other glows with pride.

Twin stars are o'er the river beaming, Two stars with silvery
light; And now they look with glances loving Upon the lilies white.

Two lilies now are drooping lowly Unto the river tide; While in the
wave the stars reflected Are floating side by side.

And now the stars are bending slowly To kiss the lilies white; Who e'en
their fragrant heads are lifting In wonder at the sight.

And one twin lily now is longing For light and heaven above; And yields
unto her star-king's keeping Her wealth of life and love.

And as the star-god bends in rapture To kiss her pale, white face,
Her soul is wafted into heaven Beneath his love and grace.

Twin lilies in the tide were floating, With quickly coming breath, But
one is left, with sad tears falling, To mourn her sister's
death.

Twin stars upon the waves were gleaming; Two star-gods pure and
bright; But one is left--that one is fading And dying with the
night.

Memory

A treasured link of shining pearls, A by-gone melody, A shower of tears
with smiles between-- And this is memory.
A thing so light a breath of air May waft its life away; A thing so
dark that moments of pain Seem like some endless day.

A careless word may wound the heart, And quickly it may die; Yet in the
seas of memory Forever it will lie.
And sometimes when the tide rolls back Its waves of joy and pain,
That careless word, though long forgot, Will wound the heart again.

The restless seas of memory Are vast and deep and wide; And every
deed that we can know Sleeps in that tireless tide.
Upon the thoughtless lives of men Its waves in mockery roll; And sweep
a might of bitter pain Across each human soul.

And few can stand upon the sands Beside this boundless sea, And say
with calm unfaltering voice "It has no grief for me." The passing wave
may bear away Our deeds and words untrue; Yet surely as the tide
comes in The wrecks will follow too.

Moonlight.

Oh, what so subtle as the spell The silvery moonlight weaves?
Oh, what so sad and what so glad, And what so soon deceives.
A vision of the long ago-- Long years of pain between; A mocking
dream of happier days-- A veil of silver sheen.
A passing gleam of falling stars-- An idle summer's dream; The
sudden waking of a heart-- Things are not as they seem.
Oh, silver moon, indeed you hold The secrets of the heart; And none
can know and none can guess The mystery of thy art.
A silver length of rippling waves, A glance from happy eyes; A
strain of music low and sweet-- The heart in rapture lies.
Yet, ah, how faithless are the vows Made 'neath the summer moon;
As changing as the falling rays That fade away as soon.
For love is like the subtle spell The sliver moonlight weaves; And
what so sad and what so glad And what so soon deceives?
The Star of Youth.
The sun sinks down in the crimson west, Oh, a beautiful sun is he;
With his purple robes and his crown of gold And his feet dipped in
the sea.
Along the shore where the sea-weeds lie Like threads of her tangled
hair, Naomi stands in the amber glow Of the mystical sunset air.
Her hair is brown, with a yellow tinge That rivals the gold of the
west; Her eyes are dark with the velvety glow That darkens the
pansy's breast."On the sixth day after thy coming to the King's hall," answered
Hilda, not returning the smile with which Godwin spoke,--"on the sixth
day, Harold, open the chest, and take out the robe which hath been
spun in the house of Hilda for Godwin the Earl.  And now, Godwin, I
have clasped thine hand, and I have looked on thy brow, and my mission
is done, and I must wend homeward."

"That shalt thou not, Hilda," said the hospitable Earl; "the meanest
wayfarer hath a right to bed and board in this house for a night and a
day, and thou wilt not disgrace us by leaving our threshold, the bread
unbroken, and the couch unpressed.  Old friend, we were young
together, and thy face is welcome to me as the memory of former days."

Hilda shook her head, and one of those rare, and for that reason most
touching, expressions of tenderness of which the calm and rigid
character of her features, when in repose, seemed scarcely
susceptible, softened her eye, and relaxed the firm lines of her lips.

"Son of Wolnoth," said she, gently, "not under thy roof-tree should
lodge the raven of bode.  Bread have I not broken since yestere'en,
and sleep will be far from my eyes to-night.  Fear not, for my people
without are stout and armed, and for the rest there lives not the man
whose arm can have power over Hilda."

She took Harold's hand as she spoke, and leading him forth, whispered
in his ear, "I would have a word with thee ere we part."  Then,
reaching the threshold, she waved her hand thrice over the floor, and
muttered in the Danish tongue a rude verse, which, translated, ran
somewhat thus:

    "All free from the knot
       Glide the thread of the skein,
     And rest to the labour,
       And peace to the pain!"

"It is a death-dirge," said Githa, with whitening lips, but she spoke
inly, and neither husband nor son heard her words.

Hilda and Harold passed in silence through the hall, and the Vala's
attendants, with spears and torches, rose from the settles, and went
before to the outer court, where snorted impatiently her black
palfrey.

Halting in the midst of the court, she said to Harold, in a low voice:

"At sunset we part--at sunset we shall meet again.  And behold, the
star rises on the sunset; and the star, broader and brighter, shall
rise on the sunset then!  When thy hand draws the robe from the chest,
think on Hilda, and know that at that hour she stands by the grave of
the Saxon warrior, and that from the grave dawns the future.  Farewell
to thee!"

Harold longed to speak to her of Edith, but a strange awe at his heart
chained his lips; so he stood silent by the great wooden gates of the
rude house.  The torches flamed round him, and Hilda's face seemed
lurid in the glare.  There he stood musing long after torch and ceorl
had passed away, nor did he wake from his reverie till Gurth,
springing from his panting horse, passed his arm round the Earl's
shoulder, and cried:

"How did I miss thee, my brother? and why didst thou forsake thy
train?"

"I will tell thee anon.  Gurth, has my father ailed?  There is that in
his face which I like not."

"He hath not complained of misease," said Gurth, startled; "but now
thou speakest of it, his mood hath altered of late, and he hath
wandered much alone, or only with the old hound and the old falcon."

Then Harold turned back, and, his heart was full; and, when he reached
the house, his father was sitting in the hall on his chair of state;
and Githa sate on his right hand, and a little below her sate Tostig
and Leofwine, who had come in from the bear-hunt by the river-gate,
and were talking loud and merrily; and thegns and cnehts sate all
around, and there was wassail as Harold entered.  But the Earl looked
only to his father, and he saw that his eyes were absent from the
glee, and that he was bending his head over the old falcon, which sate
on his wrist.


CHAPTER III.


No subject of England, since the race of Cerdic sate on the throne,
ever entered the courtyard of Windshore with such train and such state
as Earl Godwin.--Proud of that first occasion, since his return, to do
homage to him with whose cause that of England against the stranger
was bound, all truly English at heart amongst the thegns of the land
swelled his retinue.  Whether Saxon or Dane, those who alike loved the
laws and the soil, came from north and from south to the peaceful
banner of the old Earl.  But most of these were of the past
generation, for the rising race were still dazzled by the pomp of the
Norman; and the fashion of English manners, and the pride in English
deeds, had gone out of date with long locks and bearded chins.  Nor
there were the bishops and abbots and the lords of the Church,--for
dear to them already the fame of the Norman piety, and they shared the
distaste of their holy King to the strong sense and homely religion of
Godwin, who founded no convents, and rode to war with no relics round
his neck.  But they with Godwin were the stout and the frank and the
free, in whom rested the pith and marrow of English manhood; and they
who were against him were the blind and willing and fated fathers of
slaves unborn.

Not then the stately castle we now behold, which is of the masonry of
a prouder race, nor on the same site, but two miles distant on the
winding of the river shore (whence it took its name), a rude building
partly of timber and partly of Roman brick, adjoining a large
monastery and surrounded by a small hamlet, constituted the palace of
the saint-king.

So rode the Earl and his four fair sons, all abreast, into the
courtyard of Windshore [127].  Now when King Edward heard the tramp of
the steeds and the hum of the multitudes, as he sate in his closet
with his abbots and priests, all in still contemplation of the thumb
of St. Jude, the King asked:

"What army, in the day of peace, and the time of Easter, enters the
gates of our palace?"

Then an abbot rose and looked out of the narrow window, and said with
a groan:

"Army thou mayst well call it, O King!--and foes to us and to thee
head the legions----"

"Inprinis," quoth our abbot the scholar; "thou speakest, I trow, of
the wicked Earl and his sons."

The King's face changed.  "Come they," said he, "with so large a
train?  This smells more of vaunt than of loyalty; naught--very
naught."

"Alack!" said one of the conclave, "I fear me that the men of Belial
will work us harm; the heathen are mighty, and----"

"Fear not," said Edward, with benign loftiness, observing that his
guests grew pale, and himself, though often weak to childishness, and
morally wavering and irresolute,--still so far king and gentleman,
that he knew no craven fear of the body.  "Fear not for me, my
fathers; humble as I am, I am strong in the faith of heaven and its
angels."

The Churchmen looked at each other, sly yet abashed; it was not
precisely for the King that they feared.

Then spoke Alred, the good prelate and constant peacemaker--fair
column and lone one of the fast-crumbling Saxon Church.  "It is ill in
you, brethren to arraign the truth and good meaning of those who
honour your King; and in these days that lord should ever be the most
welcome who brings to the halls of his king the largest number of
hearts, stout and leal."

"By your leave, brother Alred," said Stigand, who, though from motives
of policy he had aided those who besought the King not to peril his
crown by resisting the return of Godwin, benefited too largely by the
abuses of the Church to be sincerely espoused to the cause of the
strong-minded Earl; "By your leave, brother Alred, to every leal heart
is a ravenous mouth; and the treasures of the King are well-nigh
drained in feeding these hungry and welcomeless visitors.  Durst I
counsel my lord I would pray him, as a matter of policy, to baffle
this astute and proud Earl.  He would fain have the King feast in
public, that he might daunt him and the Church with the array of his
friends."

"I conceive thee, my father," said Edward, with more quickness than
habitual, and with the cunning, sharp though guileless, that belongs
to minds undeveloped, "I conceive thee; it is good and most politic.
This our orgulous Earl shall not have his triumph, and, so fresh from
his exile, brave his King with the mundane parade of his power.  Our
health is our excuse for our absence from the banquet, and, sooth to
say, we marvel much why Easter should be held a fitting time for
feasting and mirth.  Wherefore, Hugoline, my chamberlain, advise the
Earl that to-day we keep fast till the sunset, when temperately, with
eggs, bread, and fish, we will sustain Adam's nature.  But fairer
than all are the deeds of love That shine in God's temple of grace
above; And Fame on her beautiful shadowless height Has woven his name
in a glory of light.

A Shell.

Oh, take this shell, this pretty thing With tinted waves of pearly red;
Hold close your ear and hear it sing, Then tell me what its voice
hath said.

A song of surges deep and strong, A song of summer sweet and long,
A sound of storm and wind and rain, A sound of joy--a glad refrain.

O plaything of the idle sea, Whence come these changing tints of
thine?
Have sunset clouds looked down on thee And stained thee with their hues
divine?

Oh, tell the secrets thou must know Of clouds above and waves below;
Oh, whisper of the bending sky And ocean caves where jewels lie.

O beauteous sea-shell, tinged with red, What dost thou know; what
canst thou tell?

Unto what mysteries are thou wed, Thou fragile thing, thou pearly
shell?

A whisper of the sounding sea; A sweep of surges strong and free;
A tale of life--a tale of death; A warm, bright sin--an icy breath.

Ah, more than this, thou lovely shell, Thy years have gathered from
the deep!
And, more than this, thy voice can tell Of things learned in that
ocean sleep.

A grave within the lonely sea; A spot where love can never be; A
place where tears may never fall; A lonely grave--and that is all.

Two Pictures.

A beautiful form and a beautiful face, A winsome bride and a woman's
grace, So fair and sweet it were heaven indeed For man to follow where
she would lead.

A web of lace and a jeweled hand, And life is changed by a golden
band; A dream of love and a wealth of gold-- The old new story once
more is told.

A wealth of flowers and a robe of snow, A beauteous woman with cheeks
aglow; A train of satin that sweeps the floor-- And life is altered
forevermore.

A beautiful scene on this Christmas eve, Where all could linger and
none could grieve, A dazzling vision of wealth and pride, A royal
feast and a happy bride.

But turn your steps to the lonely street, Where fierce winds mutter
and wild storms beat; And come with me to the haunts of woe Where
life is a burden and hopes are low.

Look on this woman, so thin and white; You close your eyes--'tis a
dreadful sight; But shudder not--she is cold and dead-- And died,
oh men! for a CRUST OF BREAD.

So young and hopeless, oh! God above, With none to comfort and
none to love; A tortured soul and a hungry cry That rang unheard through
the stormy sky.

While, oh! so near in the gloomy night Lay rescue and love and
warmth and light; And oh!

so near to the longing eyes, There gleamed the bright depths of a
paradise.

Oh! look on this picture, thou fair young bride, For one poor morsel
of bread she died; One glittering gem from your breast or
hair, Could have saved this woman who lieth there.

One costly spray of your flowers bright Could have bought the food
that she craved this night; One drop of love from your boundless
store Her soul could have saved forevermore.
Oh, sadd'ning picture, this Christmas eve,-- For thy sad story the
angels grieve; To think in this city of wealth and might A woman
perished for BREAD, this night.

The Queen-Rose--A Summer Idyl.
The sunlight fell with a golden gleam On the waves of the rippling
rill; The pansies nodded their purple heads; But the proud queen-rose
stood still.
She loved the light and she loved the sun, And the peaceful night
when the day was done, But the faithless sun in his careless way
Had broken her heart on that summer's day.
She had bathed her soul in his warm sweet, rays, She had given her
life to him; And her crimson heart--it was his alone-- Of love it
was full to the brim.The Earl's mind, already embittered by the scene with his sons, was
chafed yet more by the King's unloving coldness; for it is natural to
man, however worldly, to feel affection for those he has served, and
Godwin had won Edward his crown; nor, despite his warlike though
bloodless return, could even monk or Norman, in counting up the old
Earl's crimes, say that he had ever failed in personal respect to the
King he had made; nor over-great for subject, as the Earl's power must
be confessed, will historian now be found to say that it had not been
well for Saxon England if Godwin had found more favour with his King,
and monk and Norman less. [129]

So the old Earl's stout heart was stung, and he looked from those
deep, impenetrable eyes, mournfully upon Edward's chilling brow.

And Harold, with whom all household ties were strong, but to whom his
great father was especially dear, watched his face and saw that it was
very flushed.  But the practised courtier sought to rally his spirits,
and to smile and jest.

From smile and jest, the King turned and asked for wine.  Harold,
starting, advanced with the goblet; as he did so, he stumbled with one
foot, but lightly recovered himself with the other; and Tostig laughed
scornfully at Harold's awkwardness.

The old Earl observed both stumble and laugh, and willing to suggest a
lesson to both his sons, said--laughing pleasantly--"Lo, Harold, how
the left foot saves the right!--so one brother, thou seest, helps the
other!" [130]

King Edward looked up suddenly.

"And so, Godwin, also, had my brother Alfred helped me, hadst thou
permitted."

The old Earl, galled to the quick, gazed a moment on the King, and his
cheek was purple, and his eyes seemed bloodshot.

"O Edward!" he exclaimed, "thou speakest to me hardly and unkindly of
thy brother Alfred, and often hast thou thus more than hinted that I
caused his death."

The King made no answer.

"May this crumb of bread choke me," said the Earl, in great emotion,
"if I am guilty of thy brother's blood!" [131]  But scarcely had the
bread touched his lips, when his eyes fixed, the long warning symptoms
were fulfilled.  And he fell to the ground, under the table, sudden
and heavy, smitten by the stroke of apoplexy.

Harold and Gurth sprang forward; they drew their father from the
ground.  His face, still deep-red with streaks of purple, rested on
Harold's breast; and the son, kneeling, called in anguish on his
father: the ear was deaf.

Then said the King, rising:

"It is the hand of God: remove him!" and he swept from the room,
exulting.


CHAPTER V.


For five days and five nights did Godwin lie speechless [132].  And
Harold watched over him night and day.  And the leaches [133] would
not bleed him, because the season was against it, in the increase of
the moon and the tides; but they bathed his temples with wheat flour
boiled in milk, according to a prescription which an angel in a dream
[134] had advised to another patient; and they placed a plate of lead
on his breast, marked with five crosses, saying a paternoster over
each cross; together with other medical specifics in great esteem
[135].  But, nevertheless, five days and five nights did Godwin lie
speechless; and the leaches then feared that human skill was in vain.

The effect produced on the court, not more by the Earl's death-stroke
than the circumstances preceding it, was such as defies description.
With Godwin's old comrades in arms it was simple and honest grief; but
with all those under the influence of the priests, the event was
regarded as a direct punishment from Heaven.  The previous words of
the King, repeated by Edward to his monks, circulated from lip to lip,
with sundry exaggerations as it travelled: and the superstition of the
day had the more excuse, inasmuch as the speech of Godwin touched near
upon the defiance of one of the most popular ordeals of the accused,--
viz. that called the "corsned," in which a piece of bread was given to
the supposed criminal; if he swallowed it with ease he was innocent;
if it stuck in his throat, or choked him, nay, if he shook and turned
pale, he was guilty.  Godwin's words had appeared to invite the
ordeal, God had heard and stricken down the presumptuous perjurer!

Unconscious, happily, of these attempts to blacken the name of his
dying father, Harold, towards the grey dawn succeeding the fifth
night, thought that he heard Godwin stir in his bed.  So he put aside
the curtain, and bent over him.  The old Earl's eyes were wide open,
and the red colour had gone from his cheeks, so that he was pale as
death.

"How fares it, dear father?" asked Harold.

Godwin smiled fondly, and tried to speak, but his voice died in a
convulsive rattle.  Lifting himself up, however, with an effort, he
pressed tenderly the hand that clasped his own, leant his head on
Harold's breast, and so gave up the ghost.

When Harold was at last aware that the struggle was over, he laid the
grey head gently on the pillow; he closed the eyes, and kissed the
lips, and knelt down and prayed.  Then, seating himself at a little
distance, he covered his face with his mantle.

At this time his brother Gurth, who had chiefly shared watch with
Harold,--for Tostig, foreseeing his father's death, was busy
soliciting thegn and earl to support his own claims to the earldom
about to be vacant; and Leofwine had gone to London on the previous
day to summon Githa who was hourly expected--Gurth, I say, entered the
room on tiptoe, and seeing his brother's attitude, guessed that all
was over.  He passed on to the table, took up the lamp, and looked
long on his father's face.  That strange smile of the dead, common
alike to innocent and guilty, had already settled on the serene lips;
and that no less strange transformation from age to youth, when the
wrinkles vanish, and the features come out clear and sharp from the
hollows of care and years, had already begun.  And the old man seemed
sleeping in his prime.

So Gurth kissed the dead, as Harold had done before him, and came up
and sate himself by his brother's feet, and rested his head on
Harold's knee; nor would he speak till, appalled by the long silence
of the Earl, he drew away the mantle from his brother's face with a
gentle hand, and the large tears were rolling down Harold's cheeks.

"Be soothed, my brother," said Gurth; "our father has lived for glory,
his age was prosperous, and his years more than those which the
Psalmist allots to man.  Come and look on his face, Harold, its calm
will comfort thee."

Harold obeyed the hand that led him like a child; in passing towards
the bed, his eye fell upon the cyst which Hilda had given to the old
Earl, and a chill shot through his veins.

"Gurth," said he, "is not this the morning of the sixth day in which
we have been at the King's Court?"

"It is the morning of the sixth day."

Then Harold took forth the key which Hilda had given him, and unlocked
the cyst, and there lay the white winding-sheet of the dead, and a
scroll.  Yet soon his hands fell helplessly, Low at his trembling
side; For on his brow the death drops rose, While in his heart the
life-blood froze And died his young life's pride.

The dark brown eyes, whose loving glance Gave happiness to all, Have
closed their weary lids for aye Beneath the sunset of life's day,
Where dark'ning shadows fall.

Oh, weary years that still creep on Adown the sands of Time, Give back
the loving tones of yore, That haunt us here forever more As echoing
church bell's chime.

And yet it cannot, cannot be That hearts must ever grieve; Above his
head the shadows fall, Yet still the sunbeams shine through all
And mystic splendors weave.

And thus upon the grieving heart That ever weeps for him, The dark
clouds fall, yet God's sweet light Of faith still onward takes its
flight, Through shadows vast and grim.

Oh! faint heart, with thy clinging grief, Look upward to the sky; For
there, beyond the weary strife, Where angels ever guard thy life,
There's One who hears thy cry.

Within the "City of the Dead" He only lies asleep; And soon his hand
will clasp once more Thine own as oft he did of your, With love's pure
feeling deep.

Beyond the Sunset are the Hills of God.

Gleaming folds of read and gold linger in the western sky; Fleecy
clouds of purest tint, mingle with the purple dye.

Faintly to the dreamy mind comes the sound of earthly life; Far beyond
the shining banks, cometh rest from worldly strife.

Through the sunset's misty veil, now we look with longing eyes, To
behold more beauteous sight than the evening's glor'ous skies.
Slowly now the red banks part, showing what is hidden there; Flushing
hills of shadowy light, piercing through the dark'ning air.Whatever its sins, England should judge
thee mildly, for England beat in each pulse of thy heart, and with thy
greatness was her own!"

Then Harold stole round the bed, and put his arms round Leofric's
neck, and embraced him.  The good old Earl was touched, and he laid
his tremulous hands on Harold's brown locks and blessed him.

"Harold," he said, "thou succeedest to thy father's power: let thy
father's foes be thy friends.  Wake from thy grief, for thy country
now demands thee,--the honour of thy House, and the memory of the
dead.  Many even now plot against thee and thine.  Seek the King,
demand as thy right thy father's earldom, and Leofric will back thy
claim in the Witan."

Harold pressed Leofric's hand, and raising it to his lips replied:
"Be our Houses at peace henceforth and for ever."

Tostig's vanity indeed misled him, when he dreamed that any
combination of Godwin's party could meditate supporting his claims
against the popular Harold--nor less did the monks deceive themselves,
when they supposed that, with Godwin's death, the power of his family
would fall.

There was more than even the unanimity of the chiefs of the Witan, in
favour of Harold; there was that universal noiseless impression
throughout all England, Danish and Saxon, that Harold was now the sole
man on whom rested the state--which, whenever it so favours one
individual, is irresistible.  Nor was Edward himself hostile to
Harold, whom alone of that House, as we have before said, he esteemed
and loved.

Harold was at once named Earl of Wessex; and relinquishing the earldom
he held before, he did not hesitate as to the successor to be
recommended in his place.  Conquering all jealousy and dislike for
Algar, he united the strength of his party in favour of the son of
Leofric, and the election fell upon him.  With all his hot errors, the
claims of no other Earl, whether from his own capacities or his
father's services, were so strong; and his election probably saved the
state from a great danger, in the results of that angry mood and that
irritated ambition with which he had thrown himself into the arms of
England's most valiant aggressor, Gryffyth, King of North Wales.

To outward appearance, by this election, the House of Leofric--uniting
in father and son the two mighty districts of Mercia and the East
Anglians--became more powerful than that of Godwin; for, in that last
House, Harold was now the only possessor of one of the great earldoms,
and Tostig and the other brothers had no other provision beyond the
comparatively insignificant lordships they held before.  But if Harold
had ruled no earldom at all, he had still been immeasurably the first
man in England--so great was the confidence reposed in his valour and
wisdom.  He was of that height in himself, that he needed no pedestal
to stand on.

The successor of the first great founder of a House succeeds to more
than his predecessor's power, if he but know how to wield and maintain
it.  For who makes his way to greatness without raising foes at every
step? and who ever rose to power supreme, without grave cause for
blame?  But Harold stood free from the enmities his father had
provoked, and pure from the stains that slander or repute cast upon
his father's name.  She looked at him with almost haughty air, To think
that to reprove her he should dare; Then fearlessly as some undaunted
child She met his eyes that searched her own for truth, She who had
scorned the tempest dark and wild, Feared not the chidings of his
hasty youth.He felt that all Godwin's House was centred in Harold alone; and that
only from his brother (despite his own daring valour and despite his
alliance with the blood of Charlemagne and Alfred, through the sister
of Matilda, the Norman duchess,) could his avarice of power be
gratified.

"Depart to thy home, my brother," said Earl Harold to Tostig, "and
grieve not that Algar is preferred to thee.  For, even had his claim
been less urgent, ill would it have beseemed us to arrogate the
lordships of all England as our dues.  Rule thy lordship with wisdom:
gain the love of thy lithsmen.  High claims hast thou in our father's
name, and moderation now will but strengthen thee in the season to
come.  Trust on Harold somewhat, on thyself more.  Thou hast but to
add temper and judgment to valour and zeal, to be worthy mate of the
first earl in England.  Over my father's corpse I embraced my father's
foe.  Between brother and brother shall there not be love, as the best
bequest of the dead?"

"It shall not be my fault, if there be not," answered Tostig, humbled
though chafed.  And he summoned his men and returned to his domains.


CHAPTER VII.


Fair, broad, and calm set the sun over the western woodlands.  Hilda
stood on the mound, and looked with undazzled eyes on the sinking orb.
Beside her, Edith reclined on the sward, and seemed with idle hand
tracing characters in the air.  The girl had grown paler still, since
Harold last parted from her on the same spot, and the same listless
and despondent apathy stamped her smileless lips and her bended head.

"See, child of my heart," said Hilda, addressing Edith, while she
still gazed on the western luminary, "see, the sun goes down to the
far deeps, where Rana and Aegir [136] watch over the worlds of the
sea; but with morning he comes from the halls of the Asas--the golden
gates of the East--and joy comes in his train.  And yet then thinkest,
sad child, whose years have scarce passed into woman, that the sun,
once set, never comes back to life.  But even while we speak, thy
morning draws near, and the dunness of cloud takes the hues of the
rose!"

Edith's hand paused from its vague employment, and fell droopingly on
her knee;--she turned with an unquiet and anxious eye to Hilda, and
after looking some moments wistfully at the Vala, the colour rose to
her cheek, and she said in a voice that had an accent half of anger:

"Hilda, thou art cruel!"

"So is Fate!" answered the Vala.  "But men call not Fate cruel when it
smiles on their desires.  Why callest thou Hilda cruel, when she reads
in the setting sun the runes of thy coming joy!"

"There is no joy for me," returned Edith, plaintively; and I have that
on my heart," she added, with a sudden and almost fierce change of
tone, "which at last I will dare to speak.  I reproach thee, Hilda,
that thou hast marred all my life, that thou hast duped me with
dreams, and left me alone in despair."

"Speak on," said Hilda, calmly, as a nurse to a froward child.

"Hast thou not told me, from the first dawn of my wondering reason,
that my life and lot were inwoven with--with (the word, mad and
daring, must out)--with those of Harold the peerless?  But for that,
which my infancy took from thy lips as a law, I had never been so vain
and so frantic!  I had never watched each play of his face, and
treasured each word from his lips; I had never made my life but part
of his life--all my soul but the shadow of his sun.  But for that, I
had hailed the calm of the cloister--but for that, I had glided in
peace to my grave.  And now--now, O Hilda--" Edith paused, and that
break had more eloquence than any words she could command.  "And," she
resumed quickly, "thou knowest that these hopes were but dreams--that
the law ever stood between him and me--and that it was guilt to love
him."

"I knew the law," answered Hilda, "but the law of fools is to the wise
as the cobweb swung over the brake to the wing of the bird.  Ye are
sibbe to each other, some five times removed; and therefore an old man
at Rome saith that ye ought not to wed.  When the shavelings obey the
old man at home, and put aside their own wives and frillas [137], and
abstain from the wine cup, and the chase, and the brawl, I will stoop
to hear of their laws,--with disrelish it may be, but without scorn.
[138]  It is no sin to love Harold; and no monk and no law shall
prevent your union on the day appointed to bring ye together, form and
heart."

"Hilda! Hilda! madden me not with joy," cried Edith, starting up in
rapturous emotion, her young face dyed with blushes, and all her
renovated beauty so celestial that Hilda herself was almost awed, as
if by the vision of Freya, the northern Venus, charmed by a spell from
the halls of Asgard.

"But that day is distant," renewed the Vala.

"What matters! what matters!" cried the pure child of Nature; "I ask
but hope.  Enough,--oh! enough, if we were but wedded on the borders
of the grave!"

"Lo, then," said Hilda, "behold, the sun of thy life dawns again!"

As she spoke, the Vala stretched her arm, and through the intersticed
columns of the fane, Edith saw the large shadow of a man cast over the
still sward.  By the by, have you read Custine's[82] book on Russia?
They say it is very severe on Russia, and full of hatred to the
English.

We found the children very well, and Bertie quite recovered, but poor
fat Alice (who, I _must_ say, is becoming _very_ pretty) has had
the earache.

Mamma with Feo and Ernest are with the Queen Dowager at Witley Court
since Thursday last, and only return next Thursday (the day after
to-morrow).

Clem seems very happy, and writes that she is happiest when she is
_tête-à-tête_ with poor Gusti, which _I_ should _not_ fancy. Ever,
dearest Uncle, your devoted Niece,
VICTORIA R.

I open my letter, dearest Uncle, to say that I have _just_ seen in a
confidential despatch from Lord Cowley that Aumale is authorised
to ask for the hand of the daughter of the Prince de Salerno[83] (a
singular coincidence after what I wrote to you in _utter ignorance_
of this report), and that he was also to find out what the opinions of
the Neapolitan Royal Family were respecting an alliance with the
Queen of Spain.

But tell me, dearest Uncle, if these reports are true? You
may _rely_ on my discretion, and I shall not breathe a word of
what you may answer me, if you wish the secret to be kept.

[Footnote 80: The Royal party went by road from Paddington to
Cambridge, and stayed at the Lodge at Trinity; on the following day
Prince Albert was made LL.D. The party then went to Wimpole, and
visited Bourn (Lord Delawarr's). At the ball which was given at
Wimpole, there was a sofa, covered with a piece of drapery given by
Louis XIV. to the poet Prior and by him to Lord Oxford, the owner of
Wimpole, before its purchase by Lord Chancellor Hardwicke. _See_ Lord
Melbourne's letter of 7th November, _post_, p. 503. (Ch. XII, 7th
November, 1843)]
[Footnote 81: Louis Rellstab (1799-1860), a prolific German writer of
novels, whose thinly-veiled attacks on public men earned him at one
time a sentence of imprisonment.]
[Footnote 82: The Marquis Astolphe de Custine (1790-1857), author of
_La Russie en 1839_, at this time recently published.]
[Footnote 83: The Due d'Aumale married in November 1844, Caroline,
daughter of the Prince and Princess of Salerno.]

[Pageheading: INDIAN AFFAIRS]

_Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria._
DRAYTON MANOR, _31st October 1843._
Sir Robert Peel presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and begs
leave to return to your Majesty the accompanying communication from
Lord Ellenborough, and a letter which your Majesty proposes to send
to Lord Ellenborough.
In compliance with your Majesty's desire that Sir Robert Peel should
inform your Majesty whether he sees anything objectionable in that
letter, Sir Robert Peel humbly represents to your Majesty that he
does not think it would be advisable for your Majesty personally
to express to the Governor-General of India your Majesty's opinion
with regard either to the policy of retaining Scinde,[84] as being
of the greatest importance to the security of the Indian Empire,
or as to the completeness of the defence of Sir Charles Napier from
the accusations brought against him.Know that there shall come a day, though I can
see not its morrow, and it lies dim and afar, which shall be the most
glorious of thy life, and on which Edith and fame shall be thine,--the
day of thy nativity, on which hitherto all things have prospered with
thee.  In vain against the stars preach the mone and the priest: what
shall be, shall be.  Wherefore, take hope and joy, O Children of Time!
And now, as I join your hands, I betroth your souls."

Rapture unalloyed and unprophetic, born of love deep and pure, shone
in the eyes of Harold, as he clasped the hand of his promised bride.
But an involuntary and mysterious shudder passed over Edith's frame,
and she leant close, close, for support upon Harold's breast. And, as
if by a vision, there rose distinct in her memory a stern brow, a form
of power and terror--the brow and the form of him who but once again
in her waking life the Prophetess had told her she should behold.  The
vision passed away in the warm clasp of those protecting arms; and
looking up into Harold's face, she there beheld the mighty and deep
delight that transfused itself at once into her own soul.

Then Hilda, placing one hand over their heads, and raising the other
towards heaven, all radiant with bursting stars, said in her deep and
thrilling tones:

"Attest the betrothal of these young hearts, O ye Powers that draw
nature to nature by spells which no galdra can trace, and have wrought
in the secrets of creation no mystery so perfect as love,--Attest it,
thou temple, thou altar!--attest it, O sun and O air!  While the forms
are divided, may the souls cling together--sorrow with sorrow, and joy
with joy.  And when, at length, bride and bridegroom are one,--O
stars, may the trouble with which ye are charged have exhausted its
burthen; may no danger molest, and no malice disturb, but, over the
marriage-bed, shine in peace, O ye stars!"

Up rose the moon.  May's nightingale called its mate from the
breathless boughs; and so Edith and Harold were betrothed by the grave
of the son of Cerdic.  And from the line of Cerdic had come, since
Ethelbert, all the Saxon kings who with sword and with sceptre had
reigned over Saxon England.