XLVII. "He, reckless of a sister's love, and blind
    With lust of gold, Sychaeus unaware
    Slew by the altar, and with impious mind
    Long hid the deed, and flattering hopes and fair
    Devised, to cheat the lover of her care.
    But, lifting features marvellously pale,
    The ghost unburied in her dreams laid bare
    His breast, and showed the altar and the bale
Wrought by the ruthless steel, and solved the crime's dark tale.

XLVIII. "Then bade her fly the country, and revealed,
    To aid her flight, an old and unknown weight
    Of gold and silver, in the ground concealed.
    Thus roused, her friends she gathers. Suffice it
    to say, I have been both east and west,
    north and south; and there is scarcely a part
    of the habitable globe which I have not visited.
    After all, I have come to this conclusion,
that there is no country like Britain. Oh!

how I could wish my human existence had been in such
    happy times and under such glorious sovereigns
    as a George the Third, and George the Fourth!!!
    
    For some years I have remained in this country, enjoying (like a
patriarch of old) a quiet, regular life with my family, which now
amounts to above 2,000.But who are ye, pray answer? on what quest
    Come ye? and whence and whither are ye bound?"
    Her then AEneas, from his inmost breast
Heaving a deep-drawn sigh, with labouring speech addressed:

L.  "O Goddess, should I from the first unfold,
    Or could'st thou hear, the annals of our woe,
    Eve's star were shining, ere the tale were told.
    From ancient Troy--if thou the name dost know--
    A chance-met storm hath driven us to and fro,
    And tost us on the Libyan shores. My name
    Is good AEneas; from the flames and foe
    I bear Troy's rescued deities. My fame
Outsoars the stars of heaven; a Jove-born race, we claim

LI. "A home in fair Italia far away.
    With twice ten ships I climbed the Phrygian main,
    My goddess-mother pointing out the way,
    As Fate commanded. Now scarce seven remain,
    Wave-worn and shattered by the tempest's strain.
    Myself, a stranger, friendless and unknown,
    From Europe driven and Asia, roam in vain
    The wilds of Libya"--Then his plaintive tone
No more could Venus bear, but interrupts her son;

LII. "Stranger," she answered, "whosoe'er thou be;
    Not unbeloved of heavenly powers, I ween,
    Thou breath'st the vital air, whom Fate's decree
    Permits a Tyrian city to have seen.
    But hence, and seek the palace of the queen.
    Glad news I bear thee, of thy comrades brought,
    The North-wind shifted and the skies serene;
    Thy ships have gained the harbour which they sought,
Else vain my parents' lore the augury they taught.

LIII. "See yon twelve swans, in jubilant array,
    Whom late Jove's eagle scattered through the sky;
    Now these alight, now those the pitch survey.
    As they, returning, sport with joyous cry,
    And flap their wings and circle in the sky,
    E'en so thy vessels and each late-lost crew
    Safe now and scatheless in the harbour lie,
    Or, crowding canvas, hold the port in view.
But hence, where leads the path, thy forward steps pursue."

LIV. So saying, she turned, and all refulgent showed
    Her roseate neck, and heavenly fragrance sweet
    Was breathed from her ambrosial hair. Down flowed
    Her loosened raiment, streaming to her feet,
    And by her walk the Goddess shone complete.
    "Ah, mother mine!" he chides her, as she flies,
    "Art thou, then, also cruel? Wherefore cheat
    Thy son so oft with images and lies?
Why may I not clasp hands, and talk without disguise?"

LV. Thus he, reproaching. Towards the town they fare
    In haste. But Venus round them on the way
    Wrapt a thick mist, a mantle of dark air,
    That none should see them, none should touch nor stay,
    Nor, urging idle questions, breed delay.
    Then back, rejoicing, through the liquid air
    To Paphos and her home she flies away,
    Where, steaming with Sabaean incense rare,
An hundred altars breathe with garlands fresh and fair.

LVI. They by the path their forward steps pursued,
    And climbed a hill, whose fronting summit frowned
    Steep o'er the town. Amazed, AEneas viewed
    Tall structures rise, where whilom huts were found,
    The streets, the gates, the bustle and the sound.
    Hotly the Tyrians are at work. These draw
    The bastions' lines, roll stones and trench the ground;
    Or build the citadel; those clothe with awe
The Senate; there they choose the judges for the law.

LVII. These delve the port; the broad foundations there
    They lay for theatres of ample space,
    And columns, hewn from marble rocks, prepare,
    Tall ornaments, the future stage to grace.
    As bees in early summer swarm apace
    Through flowery fields, when forth from dale and dell
    They lead the full-grown offspring of the race,
    Or with the liquid honey store each cell,
And make the teeming hive with nectarous sweets to swell.

LVIII. These ease the comers of their loads, those drive
    The drones afar. The busy work each plies,
    And sweet with thyme and honey smells the hive.
    "O happy ye, whose walls already rise!"
    Exclaimed AEneas, and with envious eyes
    Looked up where pinnacles and roof-tops showed
    The new-born city; then in wondrous wise,
    Clothed in the covering of the friendly cloud,
Passed through the midst unseen, and mingled with the crowd.

LIX. A grove stood in the city, rich in shade,
    Where storm-tost Tyrians, past the perilous brine,
    Dug from the ground, by royal Juno's aid,
    A war-steed's head, to far-off days a sign
    That wealth and prowess should adorn the line.
    Here, by the goddess and her gifts renowned,
    Sidonian Dido built a stately shrine.
    All brazen rose the threshold; brass was round
The door-posts; brazen doors on grating hinges sound.

LX. Here a new sight AEneas' hopes upraised,
    And fear was softened, and his heart was mann'd.
    For while, the queen awaiting, round he gazed,
    And marvelled at the happy town, and scanned
    The rival labours of each craftsman's hand,
    Behold, Troy's battles on the walls appear,
    The war, since noised through many a distant land,
    There Priam and th' Atridae twain, and here
Achilles, fierce to both, still ruthless and severe.

LXI. Pensive he stood, and with a rising tear,
    "What lands, Achates, on the earth, but know
    Our labours? See our Priam! Even here
    Worth wins her due, and there are tears to flow,
    And human hearts to feel for human woe.
    Fear not," he cries, "Troy's glory yet shall gain
    Some safety." Thus upon the empty show
    He feeds his soul, while ever and again
Deeply he sighs, and tears run down his cheeks like rain.

LXII. He sees, how, fighting round the Trojan wall,
    Here fled the Greeks, the Trojan youth pursue,
    Here fled the Phrygians, and, with helmet tall,
    Achilles in his chariot stormed and slew.
    Not far, with tears, the snowy tents he knew
    Of Rhesus, where Tydides, bathed in blood,
    Broke in at midnight with his murderous crew,
    And drove the hot steeds campward, ere the food
Of Trojan plains they browsed, or drank the Xanthian flood.

LXIII. There, reft of arms, poor Troilus, rash to dare
    Achilles, by his horses dragged amain,
    Hangs from his empty chariot. Neck and hair
    Trail on the ground; his hand still grasps the rein;
    The spear inverted scores the dusty plain.
    Meanwhile, with beaten breasts and streaming hair,
    The Trojan dames, a sad and suppliant train,
    The veil to partial Pallas' temple bear.
Stern, with averted eyes the Goddess spurns their prayer.

LXIV. Thrice had Achilles round the Trojan wall
    Dragged Hector; there the slayer sells the slain.
    Sighing he sees him, chariot, arms and all,
    And Priam, spreading helpless hands in vain.
    Himself he knows among the Greeks again,
    Black Memnon's arms, and all his Eastern clan,
    Penthesilea's Amazonian train
    With moony shields. Bare-breasted, in the van,
Girt with a golden zone, the maiden fights with man.

LXV. Thus while AEneas, with set gaze and long,
    Hangs, mute with wonder, on the wildering scene,
    Lo! to the temple, with a numerous throng
    Of youthful followers, moves the beauteous Queen.
    Such as Diana, with her Oreads seen
    On swift Eurotas' banks or Cynthus' crest,
    Leading the dances. She, in form and mien,
    Armed with her quiver, towers above the rest,
And tranquil pleasure thrills Latona's silent breast.

LXVI. E'en such was Dido; so with joyous mien,
    Urging the business of her rising state,
    Among the concourse passed the Tyrian queen;
    Then, girt with guards, within the temple's gate
    Beneath the centre of the dome she sate.
    There, ministering justice, she presides,
    And deals the law, and from her throne of state,
    As choice determines or as chance decides,
To each, in equal share, his separate task divides.

LXVII. Sudden, behold a concourse. Looking down,
    His late-lost friends AEneas sees again,
    Sergestus, brave Cloanthus of renown,
    Antheus and others of the Trojan train,
    Whom the black squall had scattered o'er the main,
    And driven afar upon an alien strand.
    At once, 'twixt joy and terror rent in twain,
    Amazed, AEneas and Achates stand,
And long to greet old friends and clasp a comrade's hand.

LXVIII. Yet wildering wonder at so strange a scene
    Still holds them mute, while anxious thoughts divide
    Their doubtful minds, and in the cloud unseen,
    Wrapt in its hollow covering, they abide
    And note what fortune did their friends betide,
    And whence they come, and why for grace they sue,
    And on what shore they left the fleet to bide,
    For chosen captains came from every crew,
And towards the sacred fane with clamorous cries they drew.

LXIX. Then, audience granted, as the fane they filled,
    Thus calmly spake the eldest of the train,
    Ilioneus: "O queen, whom Jove hath willed
    To found this new-born city, here to reign,
    And stubborn tribes with justice to refrain,
    We, Troy's poor fugitives, implore thy grace,
    Storm-tost and wandering over every main,--
    Forbid the flames our vessels to deface,
Mark our afflicted plight, and spare a pious race.

LXX. "We come not hither with the sword to rend
    Your Libyan homes, and shoreward drive the prey.
    Nay, no such violence our thoughts intend,
    Such pride suits not the vanquished. Far away
    There lies a place--Greeks style the land to-day
    Hesperia--fruitful and of ancient fame
    And strong in arms. OEnotrian folk, they say,
    First tilled the soil. Italian is the name
Borne by the later race, with Italus who came.

LXXI. Henry Black and Ned Bell live near our house.
    They go to school, and I see them go by
    each day with their books and slates.
    
    Miss May tells the girls and boys that they
    should be at the schoolhouse when the bell
    rings. So Henry walks fast, and is first at
    school. He is a good boy, and wants to
keep the rule of the school.

    Ned is not a good boy. I do not think he likes to
    go to school or to church.
    
    I saw him try to kill a quail with a stone.
    The quail is too quick a bird for that,
    and Ned did not hurt it; but I know that a good
    child would not try to kill a bird.

[Illustration: Script Exercise:
    There is a baby at Ned's house. Her name is Kate.
    Ned is not a good boy, but he loves Kate, and
    I do not think he would hurt her.
    ]
    
    LESSON XLI.
    

light far its high where sea tall were
    The tall house which you see on that high
    rock is a lighthouse. At night its light
    is seen far out at sea, and the men on ships
    can tell where to go.
    
    If it were not for this, they would run on the
    rocks.

How would you like to live in a lighthouse?
    
    [Illustration: Lighthouse on cliff above pounding
    surf.]
    
    LESSON XLII.
    
    wrong wolf us my took sheep more watch lambs

[Illustration: Sheep grazing under a tree. Two boys
    watching from fence in the background.]
    Let us watch the sheep as they feed on
    the hills. They like to eat the new grass.
    
    Do you see my two lambs? I had two more; but
    an old wolf took them one night.
    
I love my pet lambs. It would be wrong to hurt them

    LESSON XLIII.
    
    laugh snow head fun mouth made pipe
    gh (as f)
    [Illustration: Three boys making a snowman; two
    children in foreground carrying water
    buckets.]
The boys have made a big snow man.

    They have put a tall hat on his head, and an
    old pipe in his mouth.
    
    Hear them laugh as they play!
    
    It is good fun for the boys.
    
They would like to have it snow all day and all night.

LESSON XLIV.
    
    sweets mean please bee buzz vine could said
    (sed) once (wuns)
    [Illustration: Bee flying near vine.]
    "Buzz! buzz!" a bee said to Mary.
    
    "What do you mean?" said Mary. "Please tell
me once more."

"Buzz! buzz! buzz!" but Mary could not tell its
    wants.
    
    I think it said, "Please let me get some
    sweets in this vine.

LESSON XLV.--REVIEW.
One day Nat and I sat on the high hill by the sea, where the tall
lighthouse stands. We could look far out, and could see the ships
at sea.
As we sat there, we saw a man near by, with some sheep and lambs.
The man had a pipe in his mouth. He sat with us, and let the sheep
eat the grass.
What fun it is to see lambs play! It made us laugh to see them.
The man said that once, when the sheep and lambs were out in the
snow, an old wolf took one of the lambs, and ran off with it.
I think that men should watch their sheep, so that a wolf can not
catch them.

LESSON XLVI.
while might time things done right your halves
[Illustration: Script Exercise:
Work while you work, Play while you play, One thing each time, That
is the way.
All that you do, Do with your might, Things done by halves, Are not
done right.
] 

LESSON XLVII.
went fish fell safe arms sprang was thank got
[Illustration: Boy fishing from log.]
One day John went to the pond to fish. His dog, Watch, went with
him.

John sat on a log for a time, but did not catch a fish.
As he got up to go, he fell off the log. Watch sprang in to save
him. John put his arms round the dog's neck, and was soon safe on
the log once more.
"Thank you, my brave old dog," said John to Watch.
LESSON XLVIII.
James asks warm town then drives been(bin) show
[Illustration: Girl talking to boy leading horse and wagon.]
James has been to the mill.
The day is warm, and he lets his horse stand in the shade.
A girl asks him to show her the way to the town. He tells her the
way, and then drives on.

LESSON XLIX.
I'll she'll don't puss pur pat fur harm deeds
[Illustration: Kitten.]
I love my dear puss, Her fur is so warm; And, if I don't hurt her,
She'll do me no harm.
I'll pat my dear puss, And then she will pur, And show me her thanks
For my kind deeds to her.

LESSON L.While running rivers hasten to the main,
    While yon pure ether feeds the stars with light,
    While shadows round the hill-slopes wax and wane,
Thy fame, where'er I go, thy praises shall remain."

LXXXI. So saying AEneas with his left hand pressed
    Serestus, and Ilioneus with his right,
    Brave Gyas, brave Cloanthus and the rest.
    Then Dido, struck with wonder at the sight
    Of one so great and in so strange a plight,
    "O Goddess-born! what fate through dangers sore,
    What force to savage coasts compels thy flight?
    Art thou, then, that AEneas, whom of yore
Venus on Simois' banks to old Anchises bore?

LXXXII. "Ay, well I mind me how in days of yore
    To Sidon exiled Teucer crossed the main,
    To seek new kingdoms and the aid implore
    Of Belus. He, my father Belus, then
    Ruled Cyprus, victor of the wasted plain,
    Since then thy name and Ilion's fate are known,
    And all the princes of Pelasgia's reign.
    Himself, a foe, oft lauded Troy's renown,
And claimed the Teucrian sires as kinsmen of his own.

LXXXIII. "Welcome, then, heroes! Me hath Fortune willed
    Long tost, like you, through sufferings, here to rest
    And find at length a refuge. Not unskilled
    In woe, I learn to succour the distrest."
    So to the palace she escorts her guest,
    And calls for festal honours in the shrine.
    Then shoreward sends beeves twenty to the rest,
    A hundred boars, of broad and bristly chine,
A hundred lambs and ewes and gladdening gifts of wine.

LXXXIV. Meanwhile with regal splendour they arrayed
    The palace-hall, where feast and banquet high
    All in the centre of the space is laid,
    And forth they bring the broidered tapestry,
    With purple dyed and wrought full cunningly.
    The tables groan with silver; there are told
    The deeds of prowess for the gazer's eye,
    A long, long series, of their sires of old,
Traced from the nation's birth, and graven in the gold.

LXXXV. But good AEneas--for a father's care
    No rest allows him--to the ships sends down
    Achates, to Ascanius charged to bear
    The welcome news, and bring him to the town.
    The father's fondness centres on the son.
    Rich presents, too, he sends for, saved of old
    From Troy, a veil, whose saffron edges shone
    Fringed with acanthus, glorious to behold,
A broidered mantle, stiff with figures wrought in gold.

LXXXVI. Fair Helen's ornaments, from Argos brought,
    The gift of Leda, when the Trojan shore
    And lawless nuptials o'er the waves she sought.
    Therewith the royal sceptre, which of yore
    Ilione, Priam's eldest daughter, bore;
    Her shining necklace, strung with costly beads,
    And diadem, rimmed with gold and studded o'er
    With sparkling gems. I, however, keep very much to
my own room, as I hate bustle, and like to enjoy my own reflections.

The age to which our species can exist is not
    ascertained, as never one of us was known to die in
    his bed, at least a natural death.
    A kind of instinct I have always had, has as yet
    saved me from arsenic, stewed corks, traps,
    stamps, &c.; and my great strength, and a
    good deal of science, which is of more consequence,
    have, as yet, preserved me in many a deadly
combat, both with my own species, and with the dog, the ferret,
the weasel, the hawk, and that green-eyed monster--the cat.

But I am now getting somewhat stiffer, and am not so sharp
    as I was. I am not--
    "--qualis eram, quum primam aciem
    Præneste sub ipsa Stravi, scutorumque incendi
    victor acervos; Et regem hâc Herilum dextrâ
    sub Tartara misi!!"
    And in some evil hour my time must come.
    
--I am well aware, indeed, of the fleeting existence even of this
world itself, for I studied astronomy with the celebrated M.

Olbers of Bremen, and assisted him in making many useful
    observations and discoveries, particularly
    regarding comets, in the course of which we came
    to this melancholy conclusion, that
    the comet which was afterwards visible in
    1786 and 1795, will, in 83,000 years, approach
    the earth as nearly as the moon; and that
    in 4,000,000 years it will come to
within a distance of 7,700 geographical miles;--the consequence
of which will be (if its attraction be equal to that of the earth)
the elevation of the waters of the ocean 13,000 feet; that is to
say, above the tops of all the European mountains, except Mount Blanc.

    "Then steal into her bosom, and inspire
    Through all her veins with unsuspected sleight
    The poisoned sting of passion and desire."
    Young Love obeys, and doffs his plumage light,
    And, like Iulus, trips forth with delight.
    She o'er Ascanius rains a soft repose,
    And gently bears him to Idalia's height,
    Where breathing marjoram around him throws
Sweet shade, and odorous flowers his slumbering limbs compose.

XCII. Forth Cupid, at his mother's word, repairs,
    And merrily, for brave Achates led,
    The royal presents to the Tyrians bears.
    There, under gorgeous curtains, at the head
    Sate Dido, throned upon a golden bed.
    There, flocking in, the Trojans and their King
    Recline on purple coverlets outspread.
    Bread, heaped in baskets, the attendants bring,
Towels with smooth-shorn nap, and water from the spring.

XCIII. Within are fifty maidens, charged with care
    To dress the food, and nurse the flames divine.
    A hundred more, and youths like-aged, prepare
    To load the tables and arrange the wine.
    There, entering too, on broidered seats recline
    The Tyrians, crowding through the festive court.
    They praise the boy, his glowing looks divine,
    The words he feigned, the royal gifts he brought,
The robe, the saffron veil with bright acanthus wrought.

XCIV. Doomed to devouring Love, the hapless queen
    Burns as she gazes, with insatiate fire,
    Charmed by his presents and his youthful mien:
    He, fondly clinging to his fancied sire,
    Gave all the love that parents' hearts desire,
    Then seeks the queen. She, fixing on the boy
    Her eyes, her soul, impatient to admire,
    Now, fondling, folds him to her lap with joy;
Weetless, alas! what god is plotting to destroy.

XCV. True to his Paphian mother, trace by trace,
    Slowly the Love-god with prevenient art,
    Begins the lost Sychaeus to efface,
    And living passion to a breast impart
    Long dead to feeling, and a vacant heart.
    Now, hushed the banquet and the tables all
    Removed, huge wine-bowls for each guest apart
    They wreathe with flowers. The noise of festival
Rings through the spacious courts, and rolls along the hall.

XCVI. There, blazing from the gilded roof, are seen
    Bright lamps, and torches turn the night to day.
    Now for the ponderous goblet called the Queen,
    Of jewelled gold, which Belus used and they
    Of Belus' line, and poured the wine straightway,
    And prayed, while silence filled the crowded hall:
    "Great Jove, the host's lawgiver, bless this day
    To these my Tyrians and the Trojans all.
Long may our children's sons this solemn feast recall.

XCVII. "Come, jolly Bacchus, giver of delight;
    Kind Juno, come; and ye with fair accord
    And friendly spirit hold the feast aright."
    So spake the Queen, and on the festal board
    The prime libation to the gods outpoured,
    Then lightly to her lips the goblet pressed,
    And gave to Bitias. Challenged by the word,
    He dived into the brimming gold with zest,
And quaffed the foaming bowl, and after him, the rest.

May we not go and see the mill at work, Tom?
    
    Yes, I think so. The air is cool, and we can
    walk in the shade. We should go soon, Bess, or the
    pile of wood will be gone.
    
    Our two goats and the cart are here, Tom;
    we can ride to the mill. It is not up hill,
and the goats can pull us fast.

LESSON XXXVI.
Miss wants would tells rule keep good that each u
[Illustration: Six children surrounding young woman.]
The girls and boys all love Miss May; she is so kind to them.
