It was not to be borne. He clasped his hand to his brow, and rising
from his chair, he went upstairs to his dressing-room. For what
purpose, he had not even asked himself. Of bed, and rest, and
sleep he had had no thought. When there, he again sat down, and
mechanically dressed himself--dressed himself as though he were
going out to some gay evening-party--was even more than ordinarily
particular about his toilet. One white handkerchief he threw aside
as spoiled in the tying. He looked specially to his boots, and with
scrupulous care brushed the specks of dust from the sleeve of his
coat. It was a blessing, at any rate, to have something to do. He did
this, and then--

When he commenced his work, he had, perhaps, some remote intention of
going somewhere. If so, he had quickly changed his mind, for, having
finished his dressing, he again sat himself down in an arm-chair.
The gas in his dressing-room had been lighted, and here he was able
to look around him and see what resources he had to his hand. One
resource he did see.

Ah, me! Yes, he saw it, and his mind approved--such amount of mind
as he had then left to him. But he waited patiently awhile--with
greater patience than he had hitherto exhibited that day. He waited
patiently, sitting in his chair for some hour or so; nay, it may have
been for two hours, for the house was still, and the servants were
in bed. Then, rising from his chair, he turned the lock of his
dressing-room door. It was a futile precaution, if it meant anything,
for the room had another door, which opened to his wife's chamber,
and the access on that side was free and open.

Early on the following morning, George Bertram went up to town,
and was driven directly from the station to his dull, dingy, dirty
chambers in the Temple. His chambers were not as those of practising
lawyers. He kept no desk there, and no servant peculiar to himself.
It had suited him to have some resting-place for his foot, that he
could call his home; and when he was there, he was waited upon by the
old woman who called herself the laundress--probably from the fact of
her never washing herself or anything else.

When he reached this sweet home on the morning in question, he was
told by the old woman that a very express messenger had been there
that morning, and that, failing to find him, the express messenger
had gone down to Hadley. They had, therefore, passed each other upon
the road. The express messenger had left no message, but the woman
had learned that he had come from Eaton Square.

"And he left no letter?"

"No, sir; no letter. He had no letter; but he was very eager about
it. It was something of importance sure--ly."

It might have been natural that, under such circumstances, George
should go off to Eaton Square; but it struck him as very probable
that Sir Henry might desire to have some communication with him, but
that he, when he should know what that communication was, would in no
degree reciprocate that desire. The less that he had to say to Sir
Henry Harcourt at present, perhaps, the better. So he made up his
mind that he would not go to Eaton Square.

After he had been in his rooms for about half an hour, he was
preparing to leave them, and had risen with that object, when he
heard a knock at his door, and quickly following the knock, the young
attorney who had read the will was in his room.

"You have heard the news, Mr. Bertram?" said he.

"No, indeed! What news? I have just come up."

"Sir Henry Harcourt has destroyed himself. He shot himself in his own
house yesterday, late at night, after the servants had gone to bed!"

George Bertram fell back, speechless, on to the sofa behind him, and
stared almost unconsciously at the lawyer.

"It is too true, sir. That will of Mr. Bertram's was too much for
him. His reason must have failed him, and now he is no more." And
so was made clear what were the tidings with which that express
messenger had been laden.

There was little or nothing more to be said on the matter between
George Bertram and Mr. Stickatit. The latter declared that the fact
had been communicated to him on authority which admitted of no doubt;
and the other, when he did believe, was but little inclined to share
his speculations on it with the lawyer.

Nor was there much for Bertram to do--not at once. The story had
already gone down to Hadley--had already been told there to her to
whom it most belonged; and Bertram felt that it was not at present
his province to say kind things to her, or seek to soften the
violence of the shock. No, not at present.


CHAPTER XVII.

CONCLUSION.


Methinks it is almost unnecessary to write this last chapter. The
story, as I have had to tell it, is all told. The object has been
made plain--or, if not, can certainly not be made plainer in these
last six or seven pages. The results of weakness and folly--of such
weakness and such folly as is too customary among us--have been
declared. As we were sitting, noting the various particulars that
were continually passing before our eyes, and as the Poet says,
catching "the manners living as they rise," a thumping step
was heard coming along the passage. The door opened, and a wooden-legged
weather-beaten seaman, past the meridian, with a pot of beer in
one hand and a bag in the other, showed his phiz.

He was dressed in the usual sailor's garb, jacket and trousers, with
a black handkerchief slung round his neck, and a low-crowned glazed
hat on his head. The immense breadth of his shoulders, solidity
of chest, with a neck like the "lord of the pasture," gave him the
weighty bearing and bold front of an eighty-four, while his
open, bluff, and manly countenance at once proclaimed him to be the
true man-of-war's man, and tar of old England.

Arthur Wilkinson was not worthy of the wife with whom a kind
Providence had blessed him--was not worthy of her in the usual
acceptation of the word. He was not a bad man, as men go; but she
was--. I must not trust myself to praise her, or I shall be told, not
altogether truly, that she was of my own creating.

He was not worthy of her. That is, the amount of wealth of character
which he brought into that life partnership was, when counted up,
much less than her contribution. But that she was fully satisfied
with her bargain--that she was so then and so continued--was a part
of her worthiness. If ever she weighed herself against him, the scale
in which he was placed never in her eyes showed itself to be light.
She took him for her lord, and with a leal heart and a loving bosom
she ever recognized him as her head and master, as the pole-star to
which she must turn, compelled by laws of adamant. Worthy or
unworthy, he was all that she expected, all that she desired, bone of
her bone, flesh of her flesh, the father of her bairns, the lord of
her bosom, the staff of her maintenance, the prop of her house.

And what man was ever worthy, perfectly worthy, of a pure, true, and
honest girl? Man's life admits not of such purity and honesty; rarely
of such truth. But one would not choose that such flowers should
remain unplucked because no hands are fit to touch them.

As to the future life of the vicar of Hurst Staple and his wife, it
is surely unnecessary to say much--or perhaps anything. It cannot be
told that they became suddenly rich. No prime minister, won by her
beauty or virtue, placed him upon the bench, or even offered him a
deanery. Vicar of Hurst Staple he is still, and he still pays the old
allowance out of his well-earned income to his mother, who lives with
her daughters at Littlebath. One young lad after another, or
generally two at a time, share the frugal meals at the parsonage; and
our friend is sometimes heard to boast that none of these guests of
his have as yet been plucked. Of the good things of the world, there
is quite enough for her; and we may perhaps say nearly enough for
him. Who, then, shall croak that they are poor?

And now and then they walk along the river to West Putford; for among
their choicest blessings is that of having a good neighbour in the
old rectory. And walking there, how can they but think of old sorrows
and present joys?

"Ah!" she whispered to him one day, as they crept along the reedy
margin in the summer evening, not long after their marriage. "Ah!
dearest, it is better now than it was when you came here once."

"Is it, love?"

"Is it not? But you misbehaved then--you know you did. You would not
trust me then."

"I could not trust myself."

"I should have trusted you in all things, in everything. As I do
now."

And then he cut at the rushes with his walking-stick, as he had done
before; and bethought himself that in those days he had been an ass.

And so we will leave them. May they walk in those quiet paths for
long days yet to come; and may he learn to know that God has given
him an angel to watch at his side!

Of the rosy Miss Todd, there is nothing to be said but this, that she
is still Miss Todd, and still rosy. Whether she be now at Littlebath,
or Baden, or Dieppe, or Harrogate, at New York, Jerusalem, or
Frazer's River, matters but little. Where she was last year, there
she is not now. Where she is now, there she will not be next year.
Cate, M.D. of Salem. Attention is called to the importance of filling
out the _Statistical Records_ and forwarding them to Dr. Cate at
the close of the year.

Any "medical provings" may be forwarded to the Chairman of the
Committee on _Materia Medica,_ H. L. Chase, M.D. of Cambridge.

The following persons have been approved for membership by the
Executive committee.

FOR HONORARY MEMBERS:
Constantine Herring, M.D. of Philadelphia; John F. Gray, M.D. of
New York; F. F. Quinn, M.D. of London; G.It was but a few days
since she had declared her abhorrence of the man to whom her fate was
linked, apparently for life, and who was now gone. And that
declaration had implied also that her heart still belonged to him--to
him, George Bertram--him to whom it had first been given--to him,
rather, who had first made himself master of it almost without gift
on her part. Now, as regarded God's laws, her hand was free again,
and might follow her heart.

But death closes many a long account, and settles many a bitter debt.
She could remember now that she had sinned against her husband, as
well as he against her; that she had sinned the first, and perhaps
the deepest. He would have loved her, if she would have permitted it;
have loved her with a cold, callous, worldly love; but still with
such love as he had to give. But she had married him resolving to
give no love at all, knowing that she could give none; almost
boasting to herself that she had told him that she had none to give.

The man's blood was, in some sort, on her head, and she felt that the
burden was very heavy. All this Bertram understood, more thoroughly,
perhaps, than she did; and for many weeks he abstained altogether
from going to Hadley. He met Miss Baker repeatedly in London, and
learned from her how Lady Harcourt bore herself. How she bore herself
outwardly, that is. The inward bearing of such a woman in such a
condition it was hardly given to Miss Baker to read. She was well in
health, Miss Baker said, but pale and silent, stricken, and for hours
motionless. "Very silent," Miss Baker would say. "She will sit for a
whole morning without speaking a word; thinking--thinking--thinking."
Yes; she had something of which, to think. It was no wonder that she
should sit silent.

And then after a while he went down to Hadley, and saw her.

"Caroline, my cousin," he said to her.

"George, George." And then she turned her face from him, and sobbed
violently. They were the first tears she had shed since the news had
reached her.

She did feel, in very deed, that the man's blood was on her head. But
for her, would he not be sitting among the proud ones of the land?
Had she permitted him to walk his own course by himself, would this
utter destruction have come upon him? Or, having sworn to cherish him
as his wife, had she softened her heart towards him, would this deed
have been done? No; fifty times a day she would ask herself the
question; and as often would she answer it by the same words. The
man's blood was upon her head.

For many a long day Bertram said nothing to her of her actual state
of existence. He spoke neither of her past life as a wife nor her
present life as a widow. The name of that man, whom living they had
both despised and hated, was never mentioned between them during all
these months.

And yet he was frequently with her. He was with her aunt, rather, and
thus she became used to have him sitting in the room beside her. When
in her presence, he would talk of their money-matters, of the old man
and his will, in which, luckily, the name of Sir Henry Harcourt was
not mentioned; and at last they brought themselves to better
subjects, higher hopes--hopes that might yet be high, and solace that
was trustworthy, in spite of all that was come and gone.

And she would talk to him of himself; of himself as divided from her
in all things, except in cousinhood. And, at her instigation, he
again put himself to work in the dusky purlieus of Chancery Lane. Mr.
Die had now retired, and drank his port and counted his per cents. in
the blessed quiet of his evening days; but a Gamaliel was not
wanting, and George sat himself down once more in the porch. We may
be sure that he did not sit altogether in vain.

And then Adela--Mrs. Wilkinson we should now call her--visited the
two ladies in their silent retirement at Hadley. What words were
uttered between her and Lady Harcourt were heard by no other human
ear; but they were not uttered without effect. They bid me begone,
or else they would call for the police. I laughed at them, and still
tried it on, when one of them called to a blue devil, 'Take this fellow
into custody,' says he, 'and I will appear against him to-morrow
morning.' 'What's he been doing?'--For His mercy endureth for
ever.

It was five years after that night in Eaton Square when George
Bertram again asked her--her who had once been Caroline
Waddington--to be his wife. But, sweet ladies, sweetest, fairest
maidens, there were no soft, honey words of love then spoken; no
happy, eager vows, which a novelist may repeat, hoping to move the
soft sympathy of your bosoms. It was a cold, sad, dreary matter that
offer of his; her melancholy, silent acquiescence, and that marriage
in Hadley church, at which none were present but Adela and Arthur,
and Miss Baker.

It was Adela who arranged it, and the result has shown that she was
right. They now live together very quietly, very soberly, but yet
happily. They have not Adela's blessings. No baby lies in Caroline's
arms, no noisy boy climbs on the arm of George Bertram's chair. Their
house is childless, and very, very quiet; but they are not unhappy.

Reader, can you call to mind what was the plan of life which Caroline
Waddington had formed in the boldness of her young heart? Can you
remember the aspirations of George Bertram, as he sat upon the Mount
of Olives, watching the stones of the temple over against him?




      *      *      *      *      *      *




Transcriber's note:

   Obvious typographical errors have been corrected.

