He was in a thoroughly bad temper and scowled at the people who passed him.
He hated Royal Processions, he hated the bookshop, he hated all his friends
and he wished that he were dead. Here he had been seven years, he
reflected, and nothing had been done. Where was his city paved with gold?
Where his Fame, where his Glory?

He even found himself envying those old Treliss days. There at any rate
things had happened. There had been an air, a spirit. Fighting his
father--or at any rate, escaping from his father--had been something vital.
And here he was now, an ill-tempered, useless youth, earning two pounds a
week, in love with some one who was scarcely conscious of his existence. He
cursed the futility of it all.

And so fuming, he crossed the threshold of the bookshop, and, unwitting,
heedless, left for ever behind him the first period of his history.

"Programme of the Royal Procession," a man was shouting--"Coloured
'Andkerchief with Programme of Royal Procession--"

Peter, stepping into the dark shop, was conscious of Mr. Zanti's white face
and that behind him was standing Stephen.


III

At the sight of their faces, of their motionless bodies and at the solemn
odd expression of their eyes as they looked past him into the dark expanse
of the door through which he had entered, he knew that something was very
wrong.

He had known it, plainly enough, by the fact of Stephen's presence there,
but it seemed to him that he had known it from his first awakening that
morning and that he was only waiting to change into hard outline the misty
shapelessness of his earlier fears. But, there and then, he was to know
nothing--

Stephen greeted him with a great hand-shake as though he had met him
only the day before, and Mr. Zanti with a smile gave him his accustomed
greeting. In the doorway at the other end of the shop the Russian girl was
standing, one arm on the door-post, staring, with her dark eyes, straight
through into the gloomy street.

"What are you all waiting for?" Peter said to the motionless figures. With
his words they seemed at once to spring to life. Mr. Zanti rolled his big
body casually to the door and looked down the street, Stephen, smiling at
Peter said:

"I was just passing, so I thought to myself I'd just look in," his voice
came from his beard like the roll of the sea from a cave. "Just for an
hour, maybe. It's a long day since we've 'ad a bit of a chat, Mr. Peter."

Peter could not take it on that casual scale. Here was Stephen vanished
during all those years, returned now suddenly and with as little fuss as
possible, as though indeed he had only been hiding no farther than behind
the door of the shop and waiting merely to walk out when the right moment
should have arrived. If he had been no farther than that then it was unkind
of him--he might have known how badly Peter had wanted him; if, on the
other hand, he had been farther afield, then he should show more excitement
at his return.

But, Peter thought, it was impossible to recognise in the grave reserved
figure at his side that Stephen who had once given him the most glorious
evening of his life. The connection was there somewhere but many things
must have happened between those years.

"Shall we go and have luncheon together?" Peter asked.

Stephen appeared to fling a troubled look in the direction of Mr. Zanti's
broad back. He hesitated. "Well," he said awkwardly, "I don't rightly know.
I've got to be going out for an hour or two--I can't rightly say as I'll be
back. This afternoon, maybe--"

Peter did not press it any farther. They must settle these things for
themselves, but what was the matter with them all this morning was more
than he could pretend to discover.

Stephen, still troubled, went out.

Fortunately there was this morning a good deal of work for Peter to do.
A large number of second-hand books had arrived during the day before
and they must be catalogued and arranged. Moreover there were several
customers. A young lady wanted "something about Wagner, just a description
of the plays, you know."

"Of the Operas," Peter corrected.

"Oh, well, the stories--that's what I want--something about two shillings,
have you? I don't think it's really worth more--but so that one will know
where one is, you know."

She was bright and confidential. She had thought that everything would be
closed because of the Procession... _so_ lucky--

A short red-faced woman, dressed in bright colours, and carrying
innumerable little parcels wanted "Under Two Flags," by Mrs. Henry Wood.

"It's by Ouida, Madam," Peter told her.

"Nonsense, don't tell me. As if I didn't know."

Peter produced the volume and showed it to her. She dropped some of her
parcels--they both went to pick them up.

Red in the face, she glared at him. "Really it's too provoking, I know it
was Mrs. Henry Wood I wanted."

"Perhaps 'East Lynne,' or 'The Channings'--"

"Nonsense--don't tell me--it was 'Under Two Flags.'"

Finally the woman put both "Under Two Flags" and "East Lynne" into her bag
and departed. A silence fell upon the shop. Herr Gottfried was at his desk,
Mr. Zanti at the street door, the girl at the door of the inner room, they
were all motionless. Beyond the shop the murmur of the gathering crowd was
like the confused, blundering hum of bees; a band was playing stridently in
Oxford Street.

Once Peter said: "It passes about three-thirty, doesn't it? I think I'll
just go out and have a look later. It'll be fine if only the sun comes."

Mr. Zanti turned slowly round.

"I'm afraid, boy," he said, "you'll be wanted in ze shop. At two Herr
Gottfried must be going out for some business--zere will be no one--I am
zo zorry."

They wanted to keep him there, that was evident. Or, at any rate, they
didn't want him to see the Procession.

"Very well," he said cheerfully, "I'll stay. There'll be plenty more
Processions before I die." But why, why, why? What was there that they
wanted him to avoid?

Ye masters, do the same things unto them, forbearing threatening;
knowing that your Master also is in heaven; neither is there respect of
persons with Him.--Eph. 6:9
YOUNG PERSONS IN GENERAL.

Likewise, ye younger, submit yourselves unto the elder. Yea, all
of you be subject one to another, and be clothed with humility: for God
resisteth the proud, and giveth grace to the humble. Humble yourselves
therefore under the mighty hand of God, that He may exalt you in
due time.

--I Pet. 5:5, 6.

WIDOWS.

She that is a widow indeed, and desolate, trusteth in God, and
continueth in supplications and prayers night and day; but she that
liveth in pleasure is dead while she liveth.

--I Tim. 5:5, 6.

CHRISTIANS IN GENERAL.

Thou shall love thy neighbor as thyself. Herein are comprehended all the
commandments.--Rom. 13:9, 10. And persevere in prayer for all men.

--I Tim. 2:1, 2.

AN EXPLANATION
OF

LUTHER'S SMALL CATECHISM

INTRODUCTION.

CHAPTER I.

THE BIBLE.

THE BIBLE is the inspired and unerring record of what God has revealed
to men concerning Himself and the Way of Salvation. [II Tim. 3:16+,
Gal.

1:8] Hence, if we ask, "What must I do to be saved?" the answer to our
question must be sought in the Bible. It tells us what to believe and
what to do in order that we may belong to God's kingdom on earth and in
heaven.

[Matt. 6:33+, Acts 16:30+, John 5:39+] It is the only rule and standard
of Christian faith and life.

WHY NEEDED. Even without the Bible, men know that there is a Higher
Being.

Their own conscience tells them that there is a God who will punish them
if they do wrong; [Rom 2:14, 15] and the works of nature proclaim
that there is an Almighty Being who created them.

[Ps. 19:1+] But the knowledge of God which men gain from their own conscience
and from nature is insufficient.

Neither nature nor conscience can tell us anything about the Way of Salvation
which God has prepared for us in Jesus Christ. It is only from the Bible
that we can learn how we shall be saved.

ITS INSPIRATION.

The Bible is the Word of God. It was written by holy men whom God inspired.
[II Pet. 1:21+] It contains knowledge which no man could have
discovered by his own power.

It foretells events which no uninspired man could have foreseen.

It contains teachings so exalted and holy that they could not have
originated in the heart of man. It possesses a power such as no merely human
book ever did or could possess. [Heb. 4:12]
ITS OBJECT is to make us wise unto salvation. [II Tim. 3:15+, Prov
9:10+] It is to be a lamp unto our feet and a light unto our path
[Ps.
119:105+] to guide us safely through this world to our heavenly
home. It contains all that we need to know and all that we ever
shall know in this world concerning God and His will. [Luke: 6:31]
It is the final and absolute authority in all matters of religion.
We should, therefore, pay most earnest heed to its teachings, believe
them with all our heart, and apply them in our lives.
ITS CONTENTS. It consists of sixty-six "books," written between the
years 1500 B.C. and 100 A.D., and contains the History and the
Doctrines of the Kingdom of God.
OLD AND NEW TESTAMENTS. The Bible consists of two parts: The Old
Testament and the New Testament, The Old Testament reaches from
Creation to about 400 B.C., and shows how God prepared the world
for Christ's kingdom. The New Testament reaches from the birth of
Christ to the end of the world, and shows how Christ came and
established His kingdom.

LAW AND GOSPEL."No, no," he said almost imploringly, "let the boy be--what has he to do
with all this? Leave him. He has nothing to do with it. He knows nothing."

"But I ought to know," Peter burst in. "Why have I been kept in the dark
all this time? What right have you--"

He broke off suddenly. Absolute silence fell amongst them all and they
stood looking at the door, motionless, in their places. There was a new
note in the murmuring of the crowd, and the swift steady passing of it came
up the street to the shop and in at the door. Voices could be heard rising
above others, and then the eager passing of some piece of news from one to
another.

No one in the shop spoke. Outside in the deserted street there was silence
and then the bands, as though driven by some common wave of feeling, seemed
at the same moment to burst into a blare of music. Some voice, from the
crowd, started "God save the Queen" and immediately it was taken up and
flung into the air by a thousand voices. They must give vent to their
feelings, some news had passed down the crowds like a flame setting fire to
a chain of beacons.

"What is it?" Peter pressed forwards to the door. And at once he was
answered. Men were running past the shop, crying out; one stopped for an
instant and, wild with excitement, his hands gesticulating, stammering, the
words tumbling from his lips, he shouted at them--"They've bin flinging
bombs ... dirty foreigners ... up there by the Marble Arch--flinging them
at the Old Lady. But it's all right, by Gawd--only blew 'imself up, dirty
foreigner--little bits of 'im and no one else 'urt and now the Old Lady's
comin' down the street--she'll be 'ere in quarter of an 'our and won't we
show 'er ... by Gawd ... flingin' their dirty bombs up there by the Marble
Arch and killin' nobody but 'imself--Gawd save the Old Lady--" he rushed
on.

So that was it. Peter, standing in the middle of the room, looked at them
all and understood at last amongst whom he had been working these seven
years. They were murderers, the lot of them--all of them--Gottfried, Zanti
... Stephen--Oh God! Stephen! He understood now for what they had been
waiting.

He turned sick at the sudden realisation of it. It did not, at first, seem
to touch himself in any way. At the first immediate knowledge of it he had
been faced by its amazing incongruity. There by the Marble Arch, with bands
flying, flags waving, in all the tumult of a Royal Progress some one had
been blown into little pieces. Elsewhere there were people waiting, eating
buns out of paper bags, and here in the shop the sun lighted the backs of
rows of second-hand novels and down in Treliss the water was, very gently,
lapping the little wooden jetty. Oh! the silly jumbling of things in this
silly jumbling world!

And then he began to look more closely into it as it concerned himself. He
saw with amazing clearness. He knew that it was Oblotzky the tall Russian
who had been killed. He knew because Oblotzky was the lover of this Russian
girl and he turned round to watch her, curiously, as one who was outside it
all. She was standing with her back against the wall, her hands spread out
flat, looking through the door into the bright street, seeing none of them.
Then she turned and said something in Russian between her clenched teeth to
Mr. Zanti. He would have answered her but very quietly and speaking now in
English she flung at him, as though it had been a stone:

"God curse you! You drove him to it!" Then she turned round and left the
room. But the tall man was blubbering like a child. He had turned round to
them all, with his hands outstretched, appealing:

"But it's not true!" he cried between his sobs, "it's not true! I did
all I could to stop them--I did not know that they would do things--not
really--until now, this morning, when it was too late. It is the others,
Sergius, Paslov, Odinsky--zey were always wild, desperate. But we, the rest
of us, with us it was only tall words."

Little Herr Gottfried, who had been silent behind them, came forward now
and spoke:

"It is too late," he said, "for this crying like a baby. We have no
time--we must consider what must be done. If it is true, what that man says
that Oblotzky has blown himself up and no other is touched then no harm
is done. Why regret the Russian? I Pet. 2:9. But ye are a chosen generation,
a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people; that ye should shew
forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into
his marvellous light.

Matt. 16:24.

Then said Jesus unto his disciples, If any man will come after me, let him
deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me.

READING.--Jesus our High Priest, Heb. 9:11-15.

CHAPTER XX.

THE THIRD ARTICLE
OF GOD THE HOLY GHOST, OR SANCTIFICATION

I believe in the Holy Ghost; the Holy Christian Church, the Communion
of Saints; the Forgiveness of sins; the Resurrection of the Body; and the
Life Everlasting. Amen.

_What is meant by this article?_
I believe that I cannot by my own reason or strength believe in Jesus Christ
my Lord, or come to Him; but the Holy Ghost has called me through
the Gospel, enlightened me by His gifts, and sanctified and preserved
me in the true faith; in like manner as He calls, gathers, enlightens,
and sanctifies the whole Christian Church on earth, and preserves
it in union with Jesus Christ in the true faith; in which Christian
Church He daily forgives abundantly all my sins, and the sins of
all believers, and will raise up me and all the dead at the last
Day, and will grant everlasting life to me and to all who believe
in Christ.

This is most certainly true

.

* * * * *
THE THIRD ARTICLE treats of GOD THE HOLY GHOST and His work of SANCTIFICATION.
It tells us how we become partakers of the Redemption which is
described in the Second Article.

Christ _has accomplished_ our redemption, and the Holy Ghost _applies_
that redemption to our souls.
The work of the Holy Ghost _in_ us is as necessary for our salvation
as the [Cor. 2:14] work of Christ _for_ us.

We must believe in Christ, if we would be saved; [Mark 16:16] and it is the
Holy Ghost who causes us to believe. [1 Cor. 12:3]
Article. III, and its Explanation may be analyzed as follows:--
THE HOLY GHOST,
I. _His Person and Nature_: He is True God.

II. _His Work_: He Calls, Enlightens, Sanctifies, and Preserves me
in the true Faith.
III. _His Workmanship_: The Holy Christian Church.
IV. _The Fruits of His Work_: 1. The Forgiveness of Sins. 2. The
Resurrection of the Body, and the Life Everlasting.And I 'ave found it 'ere, there--one place, anuzzer
place. But it 'as never been wicked--I 'ave never 'armed a soul. What zat
girl says it is not true--I would 'ave done all to stop it if I could. But
you--if you leave me now, I am all alone. There is no one in the world for
me--a poor old man--but if you will be with me I will show you wonderful
things.

"See," he went on eagerly, almost breathlessly, "we 'ave been socialists
'ere, what you will. We 'ave talked and talked. It amuses me--to intrigue,
to pretend, to 'ave games--one day it is Treason, another Brigands, another
Travel--what you will. But never, never, never danger to a soul. Now only
this morning did I 'ear that they were going to do this. Always it had been
words before--but this morning I got a rumour. But it was only rumour.
I 'ad not enough to be sure of my news. Stephen here and I--we could do
nozzing--we 'ad no time--I did not know where Oblotzky was--this girl 'ere
did not know--I could do nozzing--Peter, believe me, believe me--"

The man was no scoundrel. It was plain enough as he stood there, his eyes
simple as a child's, pleading still like a small boy.

A minute ago Peter had hated him, now he crossed over and put his hand on
his shoulder.

"You have been wonderfully good to me," he said. "I owe you everything. But
I must go--all this has only made sure what I have been knowing this long
time that I ought to do. I can't--I mustn't--depend on your charity any
longer--it has been too long as it is. I must be on my own and then one
day, when I have proved myself, I will come back to you."

"No--Peter, Boy--come with me now. I will show you wonderful things all
over Europe; we will have adventures. There is gold in Cornwall in a place
I know. There is a place in Germany where there is treasure--ze world is
full of ze most wonderful things that I know and you and I--we two--Oh! ze
times we all 'ave--"

"No," ... Peter drew back. "That is not my way. I am going to make my
living here, in London--or die for it."

"No--you must not. You will succeed--you will grow fat and sleepy and ze
good things of the world and ze many friends will kill your soul. I know it
... but come with me, first and we will 'ave adventures ... and _zen_ you
shall write."

But Peter's face was set. The time for the new life had come. Up to this
moment he had been passive, he had used his life as an instrument on which
others might play. From henceforward his should be the active part.

The crowds were pouring up the street on their homeward way. Bands were
playing the soldiers back to the barracks. Soon the streets would have only
the paper bags left to them for company. The little bookshop hung, with its
misty shelves about the three men.... Somewhere in another room, a girl was
staring with white set face and burning eyes in front of her, for her lover
was dead and the world had died with him.

After a little time amongst the second-hand novels Mr. Zanti sat, his great
head buried in his hands, the tears trickling down through his fingers, and
Herr Gottfried, motionless from behind his counter watched him in silent
sympathy.

Peter and Stephen had gone together.


CHAPTER V

A NARROW STREET


I

The bomb was, that evening, the dominant note of the occasion. Through the
illuminated streets, the slowly surging crowds--inhuman in their abandon to
the monotonous ebb and flow as of a sweeping river--the cries and laughter
and shouting of songs, that note was above all. An eye-witness--a Mr. Frank
Harris, butcher of 82 Cheapside--had his veracious account journalistically
doctored.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I was standing quite close to the man, a foreigner of course, with a dirty
hanging black moustache--tall, big fellow, with coat up over his ears--I
must say that I wasn't looking at him. I had Mrs. Harris with me and was
trying to get her a place where she could see better, you understand. [Luke
10:16] If a minister should happen to be a hypocrite, his official acts,
such as baptisms and the like, would still be valid. [II Tim. 2:13]
_Deacons_ [Acts 6:1-6] are officers whose duty it is to assist the
pastor, and to look after the temporal interests of the congregation.
_Deaconesses_ [Rom.16:1] are consecrated to the work of love and mercy,
and minister to the sick, the needy, the neglected, the ignorant, the fallen,
and the friendless.

THE VARIOUS CHURCHES.

While the Church, in the strict sense of the word, is the "communion of
saints" and therefore _one_, yet outwardly it has become divided, in the
course of time, into many different churches, denominations, and sects.

It contains Four Great Branches: _The Greek Catholic Church_; _The Roman
Catholic Church_; _The Evangelical Lutheran Church_; and _The Reformed
Churches_, comprising a great number of denominations and sects.

The Lutheran Church and the Reformed Churches are called Protestant. (For
the names and relations of various branches of the Church, see the accompanying
Diagram, on page 106.)
THE EVANGELICAL LUTHERAN CHURCH.

The Evangelical Lutheran Church is in reality the old original
Church which came into existence on the day of Pentecost. Luther
simply threw out the errors which had crept into the Church during
the course of the centuries, and held fast the doctrines taught in
God's Word."There was no clue," an evening paper added to the criminal's identity....
The police were blamed, of course.... Such a thing must never be allowed to
occur again. It was reported that the Queen had in no way suffered from the
shock--was in capital health.

Outside the bookshop Stephen and Peter had parted.

"I'll meet you about half-past ten, Trafalgar Square by the lion that faces
Whitehall; I must go back to Brockett's, have supper and get my things, and
say good-bye. Then I'll join you ... half-past ten."

"Peter boy, we'll have to rough it--"

"Oh! at last! Life's beginning. We'll soon get work, both of us--where do
you mean to go?"

"There's a place I been before--down East End--not much of a place for your
sort, but just for a bit...."

For a moment Peter's thoughts swept back to the shop.

"Poor Zanti!" He half turned. "After so many years ... the good old chap."
Then he pulled himself up and set his shoulders. "Well, half-past ten--"

The streets were, at the instant, almost deserted. It was about five
o'clock now and at seven o'clock they would be closed to all traffic. Then
the surging crowds would come sweeping down.

Peter, furiously excited, hurried through the grimy deserts of Bloomsbury,
to Brockett's. To his singing, beating heart the thin ribbon of the grey
street with the faint dim blue of the evening sky was out of place,
ill-judged as a setting to his exultations. He had swept in the tempestuous
way that was natural to him, the shop and all that it had been to him,
behind him. Even Brockett's must go with the rest. Of course he could not
stay there now that the weekly two pounds had stopped. He quite savagely
desired to be free from all business. These seven years had been well
enough as a preparation; now at last he was to be flung, head foremost,
into life.

He could have sung, he could have shouted. He burst through the heavy doors
of Brockett's. But there, inside the quiet and solemn building, another
mood seized him. He crept quietly, on tiptoe, up to his room because he did
not want to see any of them before supper. After all, he was leaving the
best friends that he had ever had, the only home that he had ever really
known. Mrs. Brockett, Norah Monogue, Robin, the Signor.... Seven years is a
long time and one gets fond of a place. He closed his bedroom door softly
behind him. The little room had been very much to him during all these
years, and that view over the London roofs would never be forgotten by
him. But he wondered, as he looked at it, how he had ever been able to sit
there so quietly and write "Reuben Hallard." Now, between his writing and
himself, a thousand things were sweeping. Far away he saw it like the
height of some inaccessible hill--his emotions, his adventures, the
excitement of life made his thoughts, his ideas, thinner than smoke. He
even, standing there in his little room and looking over the London roofs,
despised the writer's inaction.... Often again he was to know that rivalry.

A quarter of an hour before supper he went down to say good-bye to Miss
Monogue. She was sitting quietly reading and he thought suddenly, as he
came upon her, there under the light of her candles in the grey room, that
she did not look well. He had never during their seven years' friendship,
noticed anything before, and now he could not have said what it was that he
saw except perhaps that her cheeks were flushed and that there were heavy
dark lines beneath her eyes. But she seemed to him, as he took her, thus
unprepared, with her untidy hair and her white cheap evening dress that
showed her thin fragile arms, to be something that he was leaving to face
the world alone, something very delicate that he ought not to leave.

Then she looked up and saw him and put her book down and smiled at him and
was the old cheerful Norah Monogue whom he had always known.

He stood with his legs apart facing her and told her:

"I've come to say good-bye."

"Good-bye?"

"Yes--I'm going to-night. What I've been expecting for so long has happened
at last. There's been a blow up at the bookshop and I've got to go."

For an instant the colour left her face; her book fell to the ground and
she put her hand back on the arm of the chair to steady herself.

"Oh! how silly of me ... never mind picking it up.... Oh thank you, Peter.
You gave me quite a shock, telling me like that. We shall all miss you
dreadfully."

Woe unto you!

Wherefore I beseech you in the Name of God, my beloved brethren, who are
pastors or preachers, to engage heartily in the discharge of the
duties of your office, to have mercy on the people who are entrusted
to your care, and to assist us in introducing the Catechism among
them, and especially among the young.

And if any of you do not possess the necessary qualifications, I beseech
you to take at least the following forms, and read them, word for word, to
the people, on this wise:--
In the first place; let the preacher take the utmost care to avoid all
changes or variations in the text and wording of the Ten Commandments,
the Lord's Prayer, the Creed, the Sacraments, etc.

I shall just disappear for a week or two
and then I'll be back again."

She smiled at him bravely: "Well, I won't ask what's happened, if you don't
want to tell me, but of course--I shall miss you. After seven years it
seems so abrupt. And, Peter, do take care of yourself."

"Oh, I shall be all right." He was very gruff. He felt now a furious angry
reluctance at leaving her behind. He stormed at himself as a fool; one of
the things that the strong man must learn of life is to be ruthless in
these partings and breaking of relations. He stood further away from her
and spoke as though he hated being there.

She understood him with wonderful tenderness.

"Well," she said cheerfully, "I daresay it will be better for you to try
for a little and see what you can make of it all. And then if you want
anything you'll come back to us, won't you?... You promise that?"

"Of course."

"And then there's the book. I know that man in Heriot and Lord's that I
told you about. I'll send it to them right away, if you like."

"Aren't they rather tremendous people for me to begin with? Oughtn't I to
begin with some one smaller?"

"Oh! there's no harm in starting at the top. They can't do more than refuse
it. But I don't think they will. I believe in it. But how shall I let you
know what they say?"

During this period the death-rate has been 14.45 per 1,000, which gives
an average number of deaths for each year, of 79; and within this period
159, deaths have been of persons over 70 years of age. Since the new year
came in 15 persons have died, and the average age of 5 was over 90
years.

Each of the nine churches in Andover has an interesting history. Of these
five are of the Congregational order, and their enrolled membership numbers
1,099, nearly one-fifth of the entire population.

When to this is added the membership of the Episcopal, Baptist,
Methodist and Catholic churches it is probable that one person in
four, of whatever age or nationality, is a member of some church.

The enrolment of the Sabbath Schools is about the same as that of
the churches.

He felt that he was blushing--their hands separated. She moved back from
him and pushed at her hair in the nervous way that she had.

"Why, of course--she was awfully interested. She won't forget you. Well,
we'll meet at supper." She moved back with a last little nod at him and he
went awkwardly out of the room with a curious little sense of sudden
dismissal. Would she rather he didn't know Miss Rossiter, he vaguely
wondered. Women were such queer creatures.

As he went downstairs he wondered with a sudden almost shameful confusion
whether he was responsible in some way for the awkwardness that the scene
had had. He had noticed lately that she had not been quite herself when he
had been with her--that she would stop in the middle of a sentence, that
she would be, for instance, vexed at something he said, that she would look
at him sometimes as though ...

He pulled himself up. He was angry with himself for imagining such a
thing--as though ... Well, women _were_ strange creatures....

And then supper was more difficult than he had expected. They would show
him, the silly things, that they were fond of him just when he would much
rather have persuaded himself that they hated him. It was almost, as he
told himself furiously, as though they knew that he was going; Norah
Monogue was the only person who chattered and laughed in a natural way; he
was rather relieved that after all she seemed to care so little.

He found that he couldn't eat. MARRIAGE.

Marriage is the union of one man and one woman for life in the bonds
of love and faithfulness.

_A Holy Estate_. Marriage was instituted by God in Eden [Gen. 2:13] and was
sanctioned by Christ, who performed His first miracle at a wedding."I told him," she said, "that he must lie down and go to sleep like a good
boy and that his father would punish him if he didn't. But there! What's
the use of it? He isn't afraid of his father the slightest. He would go
on--something about a lion...."

