"Poo--poo--pooh," says the Sheriff. "Fetch Jack Ketch instantly. Jack
Ketch!"

And poor Bulbo was led to the scaffold, where an executioner with a
block and a tremendous axe was always ready in case he should be wanted.

But we must now revert to Giglio and Betsinda.


XI. WHAT GRUFFANUFF DID TO GIGLIO AND BETSINDA.


Gruffanuff, who had seen what had happened with the King, and knew that
Giglio must come to grief, got up very early the next morning, and went
to devise some plans for rescuing her darling husband, as the silly old
thing insisted on calling him. She found him walking up and down the
garden, thinking of a rhyme for Betsinda (TINDER and WINDA were all he
could find), and indeed having forgotten all about the past evening,
except that Betsinda was the most lovely of beings.

"Well, dear Giglio," says Gruff.

"Well, dear Gruffy," says Giglio, only HE was quite satirical.

"I have been thinking, darling, what you must do in this scrape. You
must fly the country for a while."

"What scrape?--fly the country? Never without her I love, Countess,"
says Giglio.

"No, she will accompany you, dear Prince," she says, in her most coaxing
accents. "First, we must get the jewels belonging to our royal parents,
and those of her and his present Majesty. Here is the key, duck; they
are all yours, you know, by right, for you are the rightful King of
Paflagonia, and your wife will be the rightful Queen."

"Will she?" He is here generous enough to say: "On the morning of the day when
my son was born, my brave wife had the force to conceal from me her
sufferings."

When the Franco-Prussian war broke out, Gounod took refuge in London,
and there wrote his "Gallia." The soprano rôle was taken by a certain
Georgina Thomas, who had married Captain Weldon of the 18th Hussars.
When she met Gounod, she was some thirty-three years old, having been
born in 1837.

She took up professional singing for the sake of charity, and Gounod
and she became romantically attached.

"Oh, you--you wretch! didn't you give me this paper promising marriage?"
cries Gruff.

"Get away, you old goose! I love Betsinda, and Betsinda only!" And in a
fit of terror he ran from her as quickly as he could.

"He! he! he!" shrieks out Gruff; "a promise is a promise if there are
laws in Paflagonia! And as for that monster, that wretch, that fiend,
that ugly little vixen--as for that upstart, that ingrate, that beast,
Betsinda, Master Giglio will have no little difficulty in discovering
her whereabouts. He may look very long before finding HER, I warrant. He
little knows that Miss Betsinda is--"


Is--what? Now, you shall hear. Poor Betsinda got up at five in winter's
morning to bring her cruel mistress her tea; and instead of finding her
in a good humor, found Gruffy as cross as two sticks. The Countess boxed
Betsinda's ears half a dozen times whilst she was dressing; but as poor
little Betsinda was used to this kind of treatment, she did not feel
any special alarm. "And now," says she, "when her Majesty rings her bell
twice, I'll trouble you, miss, to attend."

So when the Queen's bell rang twice, Betsinda came to her Majesty and
made a pretty little curtsey. The Queen, the Princess, and Gruffanuff
were all three in the room. As soon as they saw her they began,

"You wretch!" says the Queen.

"You little vulgar thing!" says the Princess.

"You beast!" says Gruffanuff.

"Get out of my sight!" says the Queen.

"Go away with you, do!" says the Princess.

"Quit the premises!" says Gruffanuff.

"Alas! and woe is me!" very lamentable events had occurred to Betsinda
that morning, and all in consequence of that fatal warming-pan business
of the previous night. The King had offered to marry her; of course her
Majesty the Queen was jealous: Bulbo had fallen in love with her; of
course Angelica was furious: Giglio was in love with her, and oh, what a
fury Gruffy was in!

 { cap }

"Take off that {petticoat} I gave you," they said, all at once,

 { gown }

and began tearing the clothes off poor Betsinda.

 { the King?" }

"How dare you flirt with {Prince Bulbo?" } cried the Queen, the

 {Prince Giglio?"} Princess, and Countess.

"Give her the rags she wore when she came into the house, and turn her
out of it!" cries the Queen.

"Mind she does not go with MY shoes on, which I lent her so kindly,"
says the Princess; and indeed the Princess's shoes were a great deal too
big for Betsinda.

"Come with me, you filthy hussy!" and taking up the Queen's poker, the
cruel Gruffanuff drove Betsinda into her room.

The Countess went to the glass box in which she had kept Betsinda's old
cloak and shoe this ever so long, and said, "Take those rags, you little
beggar creature, and strip off everything belonging to honest people,
and go about your business"; and she actually tore off the poor little
delicate thing's back almost all her things, and told her to be off out
of the house.

Poor Betsinda huddled the cloak round her back, on which were
embroidered the letters PRIN. . . . ROSAL . . and then came a great
rent.

As for the shoe, what was she to do with one poor little tootsey sandal?
The string was still to it, so she hung it round her neck.

"Won't you give me a pair of shoes to go out in the snow, mum, if you
please, mum?" cried the poor child.

"No, you wicked beast!" says Gruffanuff, driving her along with the
poker--driving her down the cold stairs--driving her through the cold
hall--flinging her out into the cold street, so that the knocker itself
shed tears to see her!

But a kind fairy made the soft snow warm for her little feet, and she
wrapped herself up in the ermine of her mantle, and was gone!


"And now let us think about breakfast," says the greedy Queen.

"What dress shall I put on, mamma? the pink or the pea-green?" says
Angelica. "Which do you think the dear Prince will like best?"

"Mrs. V.!" sings out the King from his dressing-room, "let us have
sausages for breakfast! Remember we have Prince Bulbo staying with us!"

And they all went to get ready.

Nine o'clock came, and they were all in the breakfast-room, and no
Prince Bulbo as yet. The urn was hissing and humming: the muffins were
smoking--such a heap of muffins! The new terms being rejected, Wieck
put everything possible in the way of a speedy termination of the lawsuit.
He made it impossible for Clara to get back to Paris, as she wished,
to earn more money before the marriage.

He demanded that she should postpone her wedding and take a concert
tour for three months with him for a consideration of six thousand
thalers.

Clara declined the arrangement.

One day she sent her maid to the house of her father, and asked him
for her winter cloak.

says the King,
sticking his fork into a sausage. "My dear, take one. Angelica, won't
you have a saveloy?" The Princess took one, being very fond of them; and
at this moment Glumboso entered with Captain Hedzoff, both looking very
much disturbed.

"I am afraid Your Majesty--" cries Glumboso.

"No business before breakfast, Glum!" says the King. "Breakfast first,
business next. Mrs. V., some more sugar!"

"Sire, I am afraid if we wait till after breakfast it will be too late,"
says Glumboso. "He--he--he'll be hanged at half-past nine."

"Don't talk about hanging and spoil my breakfast, you unkind, vulgar
man you," cries the Princess. "John, some mustard. Pray who is to be
hanged?"

"Sire, it is the Prince," whispers Glumboso to the King.

"Talk about business after breakfast, I tell you!" says his Majesty,
quite sulky.

"We shall have a war, Sire, depend on it," says the Minister. "His
father, King Padella. . . ."

"His father, King WHO?" says the King. "King Padella is not Giglio's
father. My brother, King Savio, was Giglio's father."

