"Scootsy Mulligan! Crickety! he's come to make
trouble," shouted back Tod, climbing the ladder in
a hurry--it was used as a means of descent into the
shallow hold when not needed outside. "Where are
they? Oh, yes! I see 'em--lot of 'em, ain't they?
Saturday, and they ain't no school. Say, Arch, what
are we goin' to do?" The terminal vowels softening
his henchman's name were omitted in grave situations; 
so was the pirate lingo.

"Do!" retorted Archie, his eyes snapping.
"Why, we'll fight 'em; that's what we are pirates
for. Fight 'em to the death. Hurray! They're not
coming aboard--no sir-ee! You go down, Toddy
[the same free use of terminals], and get two of the
biggest bean-poles and I'll run up the death flag.
We've got stones and shells enough. Hurry--big
ones, mind you!"

The attacking party, their leader ahead, had now
reached the low sand heap marking the grave of the
former wreck, but a dozen yards away--the sand had
entombed it the year before.

"You fellers think yer durned smart, don't ye?"
yelled Mr. William Mulligan, surnamed "Scootsy"
from his pronounced fleetness of foot. "We're goin'
to run ye out o' that Tub. 'Tain't yourn, it's ourn--
ain't it, fellers?"

A shout went up in answer from the group on the
hillock.

"You can come as friends, but not as enemies,
cried Archie grandiloquently. "The man who sets
foot on this ship without permission dies like a dog.
We sail under the blood-red flag!" and Archie struck
an attitude and pointed to the fragment of mother
Fogarty's own nailed to a lath and hanging limp over
the rail.

"Hi! hi! hi!" yelled the gang in reply. "Oh,
ain't he a beauty! Look at de cotton waddin' on his
head!" (Archie's cropped curls.) "Say, sissy,
does yer mother know ye're out? Throw that ladder
down; we're comin' up there--don't make no diff'rence 
whether we got yer permish or not--and
we'll knock the stuffin' out o' ye if ye put up any job
on us. H'ist out that ladder!"

"Death and no quarter!" shouted back Archie,
opening the big blade of Captain Holt's pocket knife
and grasping it firmly in his wee hand. "We'll
defend this ship with the last drop of our blood!"

"Ye will, will ye!" retorted Scootsy. "Come on,
fellers--go for 'em! I'll show 'em," and he dodged
under the sloop's bow and sprang for the overhanging
chains.

Tod had now clambered up from the hold. Under
his arm were two stout hickory saplings. One he gave
to Archie, the other he kept himself.

"Give them the shells first," commanded Archie,
dodging a beach pebble; "and when their hands come
up over the rail let them have this," and he waved
the sapling over his head. "Run, Tod,--they're
trying to climb up behind. I'll take the bow. Avast
there, ye lubbers!"

With this Archie dropped to his knees and
crouched close to the heel of the rotting bowsprit,
out of the way of the flying missiles--each boy's
pockets were loaded--and looking cautiously over
the side of the hulk, waited until Scootsy's dirty
fingers--he was climbing the chain hand over hand,
his feet resting on a boy below him--came into
view.

"Off there, or I'll crack your fingers!"

"Crack and be--"

Bang! went Archie's hickory and down dropped
the braggart, his oath lost in his cries.

"He smashed me fist! He smashed me fist! Oh!
Oh!" whined Scootsy, hopping about with the pain,
sucking the injured hand and shaking its mate at
Archie, who was still brandishing the sapling and
yelling himself hoarse in his excitement.

The attacking party now drew off to the hillock
for a council of war. Only their heads could be seen
--their bodies lay hidden in the long grass of the
dune.

Archie and Tod were now dancing about the deck
in a delirium of delight--calling out in true piratical
terms, "We die, but we never surrender!" Tod
now and then falling into his native vernacular to
the effect that he'd "knock the liver and lights out
o' the hull gang," an expression the meaning of which
was wholly lost on Archie, he never having cleaned
a fish in his life.

Here a boy in his shirt-sleeves straightened up in
the yellow grass and looked seaward. Then Sandy
Plummer gave a yell and ran to the beach, rolling up
what was left of his trousers legs, stopping now and
then to untie first one shoe and then the other. Two
of the gang followed on a run. When the three
reached the water's edge they danced about like
Crusoe's savages, waving their arms and shouting.
Sandy by this time had stripped off his clothes and
had dashed into the water. A long plank from some
lumber schooner was drifting up the beach in the
gentle swell of the tide. Sandy ran abreast of it
for a time, sprang into the surf, threw himself upon
it flat like a frog, and then began paddling shoreward.
The other two now rushed into the water, grasping
the near end of the derelict, the whole party pushing
and paddling until it was hauled clean of the brine
and landed high on the sand.

A triumphant yell here came from the water's
edge, and the balance of the gang--there were seven
in all--rushed to the help of the dauntless three.

Archie heaped a pile of pebbles within reach of
his hand and waited the attack. What the savages
were going to do with the plank neither he nor Tod
could divine. The derelict was now dragged over the
sand to the hulk, Tod and Archie pelting its rescuers
with stones and shells as they came within short
range.

"Up with her, fellers!" shouted Sandy, who, since
Scootsy's unmanly tears, had risen to first place.
"Run it under the bowsprit--up with her--there
she goes! Altogether!"

Archie took his stand, his long sapling in his hand,
and waited. He thought first he would unseat the
end of the plank, but it was too far below him and
then again he would be exposed to their volleys of
stones, and if he was hurt he might not get back on
his craft. Tod, who had resigned command in favor
of his henchman after Archie's masterly defence in
the last fight, stood behind him. Thermopylae was
a narrow place, and so was the famous Bridge of
Horatius. He and his faithful Tod would now make
the fight of their lives. Both of these close shaves
for immortality were closed books to Tod, but Archie
knew every line of their records, Doctor John having
spent many an hour reading to him, the boy curled
up in his lap while Jane listened.

Sandy, emboldened by the discovery of the plank,
made the first rush up and was immediately knocked
from his perch by Tod, whose pole swung around his
head like a flail. Then Scootsy tried it, crawling
up, protecting his head by ducking it under his elbows, 
holding meanwhile by his hand. Tod's blows
fell about his back, but the boy struggled on until
Archie reached over the gunwale, and with a twist
of his wrist, using all his strength, dropped the
invader to the sand below.

The success of this mode of attack was made apparent, 
provided they could stick to the plank. Five
boys now climbed up. Archie belabored the first
one with the pole and Tod grappled with the second,
trying to throw him from the rail to the sand, some
ten feet below, but the rat close behind him, in spite
of their efforts, reached forward, caught the rail,
and scrambled up to his mate's assistance. In another 
instant both had leaped to the sloop's deck.

"Back! back! Run, Toddy!" screamed Archie,
waving his arms. "Get on the poop-deck; we can
lick them there. Run!"

Tod darted back, and the two defenders clearing
the intervening rotten timbers with a bound, sprang
upon the roof of the old cabin--Archie's "poop."

With a whoop the savages followed, jumping over
the holes in the planking and avoiding the nails in
the open beams.

In the melee Archie had lost his pole, and was
now standing, hat off, his blue eves flashing, all the
blood of his overheated little body blazing in his face.
The tears of defeat were trembling under his eyelids, 
He had been outnumbered, but he would die
game. In his hand he carried, unconsciously to
himself, the big-bladed pocket knife the captain had
given him. He would as soon have used it on his
mother as upon one of his enemies, but the Barnegat
invaders were ignorant of that fact, knives being the
last resort in their environment.

"Look out, Sandy!" yelled Scootsy to his leader,
who was now sneaking up to Archie with the movement 
of an Indian in ambush;--"he's drawed a
knife."

Sandy stopped and straightened himself within
three feet of Archie. His hand still smarted from
the blow Archie had given it. The "spad" had not
stopped a second in that attack, and he might not in
this; the next thing he knew the knife might be
between his ribs.

"Drawed a knife, hev ye!" he snarled. "Drawed
a knife, jes' like a spad that ye are! Ye oughter
put yer hair in curl-papers!"

Archie looked at the harmless knife in his hand.

"I can fight you with my fists if you are bigger
than me," he cried, tossing the knife down the open
hatchway into the sand below. "Hold my coat,
Tod," and he began stripping off his little jacket.

"I ain't fightin' no spads," sneered Sandy. he
didn't want to fight this one. "Yer can't skeer
nobody. You'll draw a pistol next. Yer better go
home to yer mammy, if ye kin find her."

"He ain't got no mammy," snarled Scootsy.
"He's a pick-up--me father says so."

Archie sprang forward to avenge the insult, but
before he could reach Scootsy's side a yell arose
from the bow of the hulk.

"Yi! yi! Run, fellers! Here comes old man
Fogarty! he's right on top o' ye! Not that side--
this way. Yi! yi!"

The invaders turned and ran the length of the
deck, scrambled over the side and dropped one after
the other to the sand below just as the Fogarty head
appeared at the bow. It was but a step and a spring
for him, and with a lurch he gained the deck of the
wreck.

"By jiminy, boys, mother thought ye was all
killed! Has them rats been botherin' ye? Ye
oughter broke the heads of 'em. Where did they
get that plank? Come 'shore, did it? Here, Tod,
catch hold of it; I jes' wanted a piece o' floorin'
like that. Why, ye're all het up, Archie! Come,
son, come to dinner; ye'll git cooled off, and mother's
got a mess o' clams for ye. Never mind 'bout the
ladder; I'll lift it down."

On the way over to the cabin, Fogarty and Tod
carrying the plank and Archie walking beside them,
the fisherman gleaned from the boys the details of
the fight. Archie had recovered the captain's knife
and it was now in his hand.

"Called ye a 'pick-up' did he, the rat, and said
ye didn't have no mother. He's a liar! If ye ain't
got a mother, and a good one, I don't know who has.
That's the way with them town-crabs, allus cussin'
somebody better'n themselves."

When Fogarty had tilted the big plank against
the side of the cabin and the boys had entered the
kitchen in search of the mess of clams, the fisherman
winked to his wife, jerked his head meaningly over
one shoulder, and Mrs. Fogarty, in answer, followed
him out to the woodshed.

"Them sneaks from Barnegat, Mulligan's and
Farguson's boys, and the rest of 'em, been lettin' out
on Archie: callin' him names, sayin' he ain't got no
mother and he's one o' them pass-ins ye find on yer
doorstep in a basket. I laughed it off and he 'peared
to forgit it, but I thought he might ask ye, an' so
I wanted to tip ye the wink."

"Well, ye needn't worry. I ain't goin' to tell
him what I don't know," replied the wife, surprised
that he should bring her all the way out to the woodshed 
to tell her a thing like that.

"But ye DO know, don't ye?"

"All I know is what Uncle Ephraim told me four
or five years ago, and he's so flighty half the time
and talks so much ye can't believe one-half he says--
something about Miss Jane comin' across Archie's
mother in a horsepital in Paris, or some'er's and
promisin' her a-dyin' that she'd look after the boy,
and she has. She'd do that here if there was women
and babies up to Doctor John's horsepital 'stead o'
men. It's jes' like her," and Mrs. Fogarty, not to
lose her steps, stooped over a pile of wood and began
gathering up an armful.

"Well, she ain't his mother, ye know," rejoined
Fogarty, helping his wife with the sticks. "That's
what they slammed in his face to-day, and he'll git
it ag'in as he grows up. But he don't want to hear
it from us."

"And he won't. Miss Jane ain't no fool. She
knows more about him than anybody else, and when
she gits ready to tell him she'll tell him. Don't
make no difference who his mother was--the one he's
got now is good enough for anybody. Tod would
have been dead half a dozen times if it hadn't been
for her and Doctor John, and there ain't nobody
knows it better'n me. It's just like her to let Archie
come here so much with Tod; she knows I ain't
goin' to let nothin' happen to him. And as for
mothers, Sam Fogarty," here Mrs. Fogarty lifted her
free hand and shook her finger in a positive way--
"when Archie gits short of mothers he's got one right
here, don't make no difference what you or anybody
else says," and she tapped her broad bosom meaningly.

Contrary, however, to Fogarty's hopes and surmises, 
Archie had forgotten neither Sandy's insult
nor Scootsy's epithet. "He's a pick-up" and "he
ain't got no mammy" kept ringing in his ears as he
walked back up the beach to his home. He remembered 
having heard the words once before when he
was some years younger, but then it had come from
a passing neighbor and was not intended for him.
This time it was flung square in his face. Every
now and then as he followed the trend of the beach
on his way home he would stop and look out over
the sea, watching the long threads of smoke being
unwound from the spools of the steamers and the sails
of the fishing-boats as they caught the light of the
setting sun. The epithet worried him. It was something 
to be ashamed of, he knew, or they would not
have used it.

Jane, standing outside the gate-post, shading her
eyes with her hand, scanning the village road, caught
sight of his sturdy little figure the moment he turned
the corner and ran to meet him.

"I got so worried--aren't you late, my son?" she
asked, putting her arm about him and kissing him
tenderly.

"Yes, it's awful late. I ran all the way from the
church when I saw the clock. I didn't know it was
past six. Oh, but we've had a bully day, mother!
And we've had a fight. Tod and I were pirates, and
Scootsy Mulligan tried to--"

Jane stopped the boy's joyous account with a cry
of surprise. They were now walking back to Yardley's 
gate, hugging the stone wall.

"A fight! Oh, my son!"

"Yes, a bully fight; only there were seven of them
and only two of us. That warn't fair, but Mr.
Fogarty says they always fight like that. I could
have licked 'em if they come on one at a time, but
they got a plank and crawled up--"

"Crawled up where, my son?" asked Jane in
astonishment. All this was an unknown world to
her. She had seen the wreck and had known, of
course, that the boys were making a playhouse of it,
but this latter development was news to her.

"Why, on the pirate ship, where we've got our
Bandit's Home. Tod is commodore and I'm first
mate. Tod and I did all we could, but they didn't
fight fair, and Scootsy called me a 'pick-up' and said
I hadn't any mother. I asked Mr. Fogarty what he
meant, but he wouldn't tell me. What's a 'pick-up,'
dearie?" and he lifted his face to Jane's, his honest
blue eyes searching her own.

Jane caught her hand to her side and leaned for
a moment against the stone wall. This was the
question which for years she had expected him to
ask--one to which she had framed a hundred imaginary 
answers. When as a baby he first began to
talk she had determined to tell him she was not his
mother, and so get him gradually accustomed to the
conditions of his birth. But every day she loved
him the more, and every day she had put it off. To-
day it was no easier. He was too young, she knew,
to take in its full meaning, even if she could muster
up the courage to tell him the half she was willing
to tell him--that his mother was her friend and on
her sick-bed had entrusted her child to her care. She
had wanted to wait until he was old enough to understand, 
so that she should not lose his love when he
came to know the truth. There had been, moreover,
always this fear--would he love her for shielding
his mother, or would he hate Lucy when he came to
know? She had once talked it all over with Captain
Holt, but she could never muster up the courage to
take his advice.

"Tell him," he had urged. "It'll save you a lot
o' trouble in the end. That'll let me out and I kin
do for him as I want to. You've lived under this
cloud long enough--there ain't nobody can live a
lie a whole lifetime, Miss Jane. I'll take my share
of the disgrace along of my dead boy, and you ain't
done nothin', God knows, to be ashamed of. Tell
him! It's grease to yer throat halyards and everything'll 
run smoother afterward. Take my advice,
Miss Jane."

All these things rushed through her mind as she
stood leaning against the stone wall, Archie's hand
in hers, his big blue eyes still fixed on her own.

"Who said that to you, my son?" she asked in
assumed indifference, in order to gain time in which
to frame her answer and recover from the shock.

"Scootsy Mulligan."

"Is he a nice boy?"

"No, he's a coward, or he wouldn't fight as he
does."

"Then I wouldn't mind him, my boy," and she
smoothed back the hair from his forehead, her eyes
avoiding the boy's steady gaze. It was only when
someone opened the door of the closet concealing this
spectre that Jane felt her knees give way and her
heart turn sick within her. In all else she was
fearless and strong.

"Was he the boy who said you had no mother?"

"Yes. I gave him an awful whack when he came
up the first time, and he went heels over head."

"Well, you have got a mother, haven't you, darling?" 
she continued, with a sigh of relief, now that
Archie was not insistent.

"You bet I have!" cried the boy, throwing his
arms around her.

"Then we won't either of us bother about those
bad boys and what they say," she answered, stooping
over and kissing him.

And so for a time the remembrance of Scootsy's
epithet faded out of the boy's mind.


CHAPTER XIV


HIGH WATER AT YARDLEY


Ten years have passed away.

The sturdy little fellow in knee-trousers is a lad
of seventeen, big and strong for his age; Tod is three
years older, and the two are still inseparable. The
brave commander of the pirate ship is now a full-
fledged fisherman and his father's main dependence.
Archie is again his chief henchman, and the two
spend many a morning in Tod's boat when the blue-
fish are running. Old Fogarty does not mind it;
he rather likes it, and Mother Fogarty is always
happier when the two are together.

"If one of 'em gits overboard," she said one day
to her husband, "t'other kin save him."

"Save him! Well, I guess!" he replied. "Salt
water skims off Archie same's if he was a white
bellied gull; can't drown him no more'n you kin a
can buoy."

The boy has never forgotten Scootsy's epithet, although 
he has never spoken of it to his mother--
no one knows her now by any other name. She
thought the episode had passed out of his mind, but
she did not know everything that lay in the boy's
heart. He and Tod had discussed it time and again,
and had wondered over his own name and that of
his nameless father, as boys wonder, but they had
come to no conclusion. No one in the village could
tell them, for no one ever knew. He had asked the
doctor, but had only received a curious answer.

"What difference does it make, son, when you
have such a mother? You have brought her only
honor, and the world loves her the better because of
you. Let it rest until she tells you; it will only hurt
her heart if you ask her now."

The doctor had already planned out the boy's
future; he was to be sent to Philadelphia to study
medicine when his schooling was over, and was then
to come into his office and later on succeed to his
practice.

Captain Holt would have none of it.

"He don't want to saw off no legs," the bluff old
man had blurted out when he heard of it. "He
wants to git ready to take a ship 'round Cape Horn.
If I had my way I'd send him some'er's where he
could learn navigation, and that's in the fo'c's'le of
a merchantman. Give him a year or two before the
mast. I made that mistake with Bart--he loafed
round here too long and when he did git a chance
he was too old."

Report had it that the captain was going to leave
the lad his money, and had therefore a right to
speak; but no one knew. He was closer-mouthed
than ever, though not so gruff and ugly as he used
to be; Archie had softened him, they said, taking
the place of that boy of his he "druv out to die a
good many years ago."

Jane's mind wavered. Neither profession suited
her. She would sacrifice anything she had for the
boy provided they left him with her. Philadelphia
was miles away, and she would see him but seldom.
The sea she shrank from and dreaded. She had
crossed it twice, and both times with an aching
heart. She feared, too, its treachery and cruelty.
The waves that curled and died on Barnegat beach
--messengers from across the sea--brought only tidings 
fraught with suffering.

Archie had no preferences--none yet. His future
was too far off to trouble him much. Nor did anything 
else worry him.

One warm September day Archie turned into
Yardley gate, his so'wester still on his head framing
his handsome, rosy face; his loose jacket open at
the throat, the tarpaulins over his arm. He had
been outside the inlet with Tod--since daybreak, in
fact--fishing for bass and weakfish.

Jane had been waiting for him for hours. She
held an open letter in her hand, and her face was
happier, Archie thought as he approached her, than
he had seen it for months.

There are times in all lives when suddenly and
without warning, those who have been growing
quietly by our side impress their new development
upon us. We look at them in full assurance that
the timid glance of the child will be returned, and
are astounded to find instead the calm gaze of the
man; or we stretch out our hand to help the faltering 
step and touch a muscle that could lead a host.
Such changes are like the breaking of the dawn; so
gradual has been their coming that the full sun of
maturity is up and away flooding the world with
beauty and light before we can recall the degrees
by which it rose.

Jane realized this--and for the first time--as she
looked at Archie swinging through the gate, waving his
hat as he strode toward her. She saw that the sailor
had begun to assert itself. He walked with an easy
swing, his broad shoulders--almost as broad as the
captain's and twice as hard--thrown back, his head
up, his blue eyes and white teeth laughing out of a
face brown and ruddy with the sun and wind, his
throat and neck bare except for the silk handkerchief
--one of Tod's--wound loosely about it; a man
really, strong and tough, with hard sinews and capable 
thighs, back, and wrists--the kind of sailorman
that could wear tarpaulins or broadcloth at his pleasure 
and never lose place in either station.

In this rude awakening Jane's heart-strings
tightened. She became suddenly conscious that the
Cobden look had faded out of him; Lucy's eyes and
hair were his, and so was her rounded chin, with its
dimple, but there was nothing else about him that
recalled either her own father or any other Cobden
she remembered. As he came near enough for her
to look into his eyes she began to wonder how he would
impress Lucy, what side of his nature would she love
best--his courage and strength or his tenderness?

The sound of his voice shouting her name recalled 
her to herself, and a thrill of pride illumined
her happy face like a burst of sunlight as he tossed
his tarpaulins on the grass and put his strong arms
about her.

"Mother, dear! forty black bass, eleven weakfish,
and half a barrel of small fry--what do you think
of that?"

"Splendid, Archie. Tod must be proud as a
peacock. But look at this!" and she held up the
letter. "Who do you think it's from? Guess now,"
and she locked one arm through his, and the two
strolled back to the house.

"Guess now!" she repeated, holding the letter
behind her back. The two were often like lovers
together.

"Let me see," he coaxed. "What kind of a stamp
has it got?"

"Never you mind about the stamp."

"Uncle John--and it's about my going to Philadelphia."

Jane laughed. "Uncle John never saw it."

"Then it's from--Oh, you tell me, mother!"

"No--guess. Think of everybody you ever heard
of. Those you have seen and those you--"

"Oh, I know--Aunt Lucy."

"Yes, and she's coming home. Home, Archie,
think of it, after all these years!"

"Well, that's bully! She won't know me, will
she? I never saw her, did I?"

"Yes, when you were a little fellow." It was
difficult to keep the tremor out of her voice.

"Will she bring any dukes and high daddies with
her?"

"No," laughed Jane, "only her little daughter
Ellen, the sweetest little girl you ever saw, she
writes."

"How old is she?"

He had slipped his arm around his mother's waist
now and the two were "toeing it" up the path, he
stopping every few feet to root a pebble from its
bed. The coming of the aunt was not a great event
in his life.

"Just seven her last birthday."

"All right, she's big enough. We'll take her out
and teach her to fish. Hello, granny!" and the boy
loosened his arm as he darted up the steps toward
Martha. "Got the finest mess of fish coming up here
in a little while you ever laid your eyes on," he
shouted, catching the old nurse's cap from her head
and clapping it upon his own, roaring with laughter,
as he fled in the direction of the kitchen.

Jane joined in the merriment and, moving a chair
from the hall, took her seat on the porch to await
the boy's return. She was too happy to busy herself
about the house or to think of any of her outside
duties. Doctor John would not be in until the afternoon, 
and so she would occupy herself in thinking
out plans to make her sister's home-coming a joyous
one.

As she looked down over the garden as far as
the two big gate-posts standing like grim sentinels
beneath the wide branches of the hemlocks, and
saw how few changes had taken place in the old
home since her girl sister had left it, her heart
thrilled with joy. Nothing really was different; the
same mass of tangled rose-vines climbed over the
porch--now quite to the top of the big roof, but
still the same dear old vines that Lucy had loved in
her childhood; the same honeysuckle hid the posts;
the same box bordered the paths. The house was
just as she left it; her bedroom had really never been
touched. What few changes had taken place she
would not miss. Meg would not run out to meet
her, and Rex was under a stone that the doctor had
placed over his grave; nor would Ann Gossaway
peer out of her eyrie of a window and follow her
with her eyes as she drove by; her tongue was quiet
at last, and she and her old mother lay side by side
in the graveyard. Doctor John had exhausted his
skill upon them both, and Martha, who had forgiven
her enemy, had sat by her bedside until the end,
but nothing had availed. Mrs. Cavendish was dead,
of course, but she did not think Lucy would care
very much. She and Doctor John had nursed her
for months until the end came, and had then laid
her away near the apple-trees she was so fond of.
But most of the faithful hearts who had loved her
were still beating, and all were ready with a hearty
welcome.

Archie was the one thing new--new to Lucy. And
yet she had no fear either for him or for Lucy.
When she saw him she would love him, and when she
had known him a week she would never be separated
from him again. The long absence could not have
wiped out all remembrance of the boy, nor would the
new child crowd him from her heart.

When Doctor John sprang from his gig (the custom 
of his daily visits had never been broken) she
could hardly wait until he tied his horse--poor Bess
had long since given out--to tell him the joyful
news.

He listened gravely, his face lighting up at her
happiness. He was glad for Jane and said so
frankly, but the situation did not please him. He at
heart really dreaded the effect of Lucy's companionship 
on the woman he loved. Although it had been
years since he had seen her, he had followed her
career, especially since her marriage, with the greatest 
interest and with the closest attention. He had
never forgotten, nor had he forgiven her long silence
of two years after her marriage, during which time
she had never written Jane a line, nor had he ever
ceased to remember Jane's unhappiness over it. Jane
had explained it all to him on the ground that Lucy
was offended because she had opposed the marriage,
but the doctor knew differently. Nor had he ceased
to remember the other letters which followed, and
how true a story they told of Lucy's daily life and
ambitions. He could almost recall the wording of
one of them. "My husband is too ill," it had said,
"to go south with me, and so I will run down to
Rome for a month or so, for I really need the
change." And a later one, written since his death,
in which she wrote of her winter in Paris and at
Monte Carlo, and "how good my mother-in-law is
to take care of Ellen." This last letter to her sister,
just received--the one he then held in his hand, and
which gave Jane such joy, and which he was then
reading as carefully as if it had been a prescription
--was to his analytical mind like all the rest of its
predecessors. One sentence sent a slight curl to his
lips. "I cannot stay away any longer from my precious 
sister," it said, "and am coming back to the
home I adore. I have no one to love me, now that
my dear husband is dead, but you and my darling
Ellen."

The news of Lucy's expected return spread rapidly. 
Old Martha in her joy was the mouthpiece.
She gave the details out at church the Sunday morning 
following the arrival of Lucy's letter. She was
almost too ill to venture out, but she made the effort,
stopping the worshippers as they came down the
board walk; telling each one of the good news, the
tears streaming down her face. To the children and
the younger generation the announcement made but
little difference; some of them had never heard that
Miss Jane had a sister, and others only that she
lived abroad. Their mothers knew, of course, and
so did the older men, and all were pleased over
the news. Those of them who remembered the
happy, joyous girl with her merry eyes and ringing 
laugh were ready to give her a hearty welcome; 
they felt complimented that the distinguished
lady--fifteen years' residence abroad and a rich husband 
had gained her this position--should be willing
to exchange the great Paris for the simple life of
Warehold. It touched their civic pride.

