Produced by Jonathan Ingram and PG Distributed Proofreaders


THE ROLL-CALL


BY


ARNOLD BENNETT


THIRD EDITION


BY THE SAME AUTHOR

NOVELS

A Man from the North
Anna of the Five Towns
Leonora
A Great Man
Sacred and Profane Love
Whom God hath Joined
Buried Alive
The Old Wives' Tale
The Glimpse
Helen with the High Hand
Clayhanger
Hilda Lessways
These Twain
The Card
The Regent
The Price of Love
The Lion's Share
The Pretty Lady

FANTASIAS

The Ghost
The Grand Babylon Hotel
The Gates of Wrath
Teresa of Watling Street
The Loot of Cities
The City of Pleasure

SHORT STORIES

Tales of the Five Towns
The Grim Smile of the Five Towns
The Matador of the Five Towns

BELLES-LETTRES

Journalism for Women
Fame and Fiction
How to become an Author
The Truth about an Author
How to Live on Twenty-Four Hours a Day
Mental Efficiency
The Human Machine
Literary Taste
Those United States
Paris Nights
Friendship and Happiness
Married Life
Liberty
Over There
The Author's Craft
Books and Persons
Self and Self-Management

DRAMA

Polite Farces
Cupid and Common Sense
What the Public Wants
The Honeymoon
The Great Adventure
The Title
Judith
Milestones (in collaboration with EDWARD KNOBLOCK)

(In collaboration with EDEN PHILLPOTTS)
The Sinews of War: A Romance
The Statue: A Romance


THE ROLL-CALL


BY


ARNOLD BENNETT


THIRD EDITION


_LONDON: HUTCHINSON & CO.
PATERNOSTER ROW_

NOTE
This novel was written before "The Pretty Lady", and is the first of the
author's war-novels.
A.B.


CONTENTS


PART I

CHAP.
   I. THE NEW LODGING
  II. MARGUERITE
 III. THE CHARWOMAN
  IV. THE LUNCHEON
   V. THE TEA
  VI. THE DINNER
 VII. THE RUPTURE
VIII. INSPIRATION
  IX. COMPETITION


PART II

   I. THE TRIUMPH
  II. THE ROLL-CALL
 III. IN THE MACHINE


THE ROLL-CALL

PART I

CHAPTER I

THE NEW LODGING

I


In the pupils' room of the offices of Lucas & Enwright, architects,
Russell Square, Bloomsbury, George Edwin Cannon, an articled pupil,
leaned over a large drawing-board and looked up at Mr. Enwright, the
head of the firm, who with cigarette and stick was on his way out after
what he called a good day's work. It was past six o'clock on an evening
in early July 1901. To George's right was an open door leading to the
principals' room, and to his left another open door leading to more
rooms and to the staircase. The lofty chambers were full of lassitude;
but round about George, who was working late, there floated the tonic
vapour of conscious virtue. Haim, the factotum, could be seen and heard
moving in his cubicle which guarded the offices from the stairs. In the
rooms shortly to be deserted and locked up, and in the decline of the
day, the three men were drawn together like survivors.

"I gather you're going to change your abode," said Mr. Enwright, having
stopped.

"Did Mr. Orgreave tell you, then?" George asked.

"Well, he didn't exactly tell me...."

John Orgreave was Mr. Enwright's junior partner; and for nearly two
years, since his advent in London from the Five Towns, George had lived
with Mr. and Mrs. Orgreave at Bedford Park. The Orgreaves, too, sprang
from the Five Towns. John's people and George's people were closely
entwined in the local annals.

Pupil and principal glanced discreetly at one another, exchanging in
silence vague, malicious, unutterable critical verdicts upon both John
Orgreave and his wife.

"Well, I am!" said George at length.

"Where are you going to?"

"Haven't settled a bit," said George. "I wish I could live in Paris."

"Paris wouldn't be much good to you yet," Mr. Enwright laughed
benevolently.

"I suppose it wouldn't. Besides, of course----"

George spoke in a tone of candid deferential acceptance, which flattered
Mr. Enwright very much, for it was the final proof of the prestige which
the grizzled and wrinkled and peculiar Fellow and Member of the Council
of the Royal Institute of British Architects had acquired in the
estimation of that extremely independent, tossing sprig, George Edwin
Cannon. Mr. Enwright had recently been paying a visit to Paris, and
George had been sitting for the Intermediate Examination. "You can join
me here for a few days after the exam., if you care to," Mr. Enwright
had sent over. It was George's introduction to the Continent, and the
circumstances of it were almost ideal. For a week the deeply experienced
connoisseur of all the arts had had the fine, eager, responsive virgin
mind hi his power. Day after day he had watched and guided it amid
entirely new sensations. Never had Mr. Enwright enjoyed himself more
purely, and at the close he knew with satisfaction that he had put Paris
in a proper perspective for George, and perhaps saved the youth from
years of groping misapprehension. As for George, all his preconceived
notions about Paris had been destroyed or shaken. In the quadrangles of
the Louvre, for example, Mr. Enwright, pointing to the under part of the
stone bench that foots so much of the walls, had said: "Look at that
curve." Nothing else. No ecstasies about the sculptures of Jean Goujon
and Carpeaux, or about the marvellous harmony of the East facade! But a
flick of the cane towards the half-hidden moulding! And George had felt
with a thrill what an exquisite curve and what an original curve and
what a modest curve that curve was. Suddenly and magically his eyes had
been opened. Or it might have been that a deceitful mist had rolled away
and the real Louvre been revealed in its esoteric and sole authentic
beauty....

"Why don't you try Chelsea?" said Mr. Enwright over his shoulder,
proceeding towards the stairs.

"I was thinking of Chelsea."

"You were!" Mr. Enwright halted again for an instant. "It's the only
place in London where the structure of society is anything like Paris.
Why, dash it, in the King's Road the grocers know each other's
business!" Mr. Enwright made the last strange remark to the outer door,
and vanished.

"Funny cove!" George commented tolerantly to Mr. Haim, who passed
through the room immediately afterwards to his nightly task of
collecting and inspecting the scattered instruments on the principal's
august drawing-board.

But Mr. Haim, though possibly he smiled ever so little, would not
compromise himself by an endorsement of the criticism of his employer.
George was a mere incident in the eternal career of Mr. Haim at Lucas &
Enwright's.

When the factotum came back into the pupils' room, George stood up
straight and smoothed his trousers and gazed admiringly at his elegant
bright socks.

"Let me see," said George in a very friendly manner. "_You_ live
somewhere in Chelsea, don't you?"

"Yes," answered Mr. Haim.

"Whereabouts, if it isn't a rude question?"

"Well," said Mr. Haim, confidentially and benignantly, captivated by
George's youthful charm, "it's near the Redcliffe Arms." He mentioned
the Redcliffe Arms as he might have mentioned the Bank, Piccadilly
Circus, or Gibraltar. "Alexandra Grove. No. 8. To tell you the truth, I
own the house."

"The deuce you do!"

"Yes. The leasehold, that is, of course. No freeholds knocking about
loose in that district!"

George saw a new and unsuspected Mr. Haim. He was impressed. And he was
glad that he had never broken the office tradition of treating Mr. Haim
with a respect not usually accorded to factotums. He saw a,
property-owner, a tax-payer, and a human being behind the spectacles of
the shuffling, rather shabby, ceremonious familiar that pervaded those
rooms daily from before ten till after six. He grew curious about a
living phenomenon that hitherto had never awakened his curiosity.

"Were you really looking for accommodation?" demanded Mr. Haim suavely.

George hesitated. "Yes."

"Perhaps I have something that might suit you."

Events, disguised as mere words, seemed to George to be pushing him
forward.

"I should like to have a look at it," he said. He had to say it; there
was no alternative.

Mr. Haim raised a hand. "Any evening that happens to be convenient."

"What about to-night, then?"

"Certainly," Mr. Haim agreed. For a moment George apprehended that Mr.
Haim was going to invite him to dinner. But Mr. Haim was not going to
invite him to dinner. "About nine, shall we say?" he suggested, with a
courtliness softer even than usual.

Later, George said that he would lock up the office himself and leave
the key with the housekeeper.

"You can't miss the place," said Mr. Haim on leaving. "It's between the
Workhouse and the Redcliffe."


II


At the corner dominated by the Queen's Elm, which on the great route
from Piccadilly Circus to Putney was a public-house and halt second only
in importance to the Redcliffe Arms, night fell earlier than it ought to
have done, owing to a vast rain-cloud over Chelsea. A few drops
descended, but so warm and so gently that they were not like real rain,
and sentimentalists could not believe that they would wet. People,
arriving mysteriously out of darkness, gathered sparsely on the
pavements, lingered a few moments, and were swallowed by omnibuses that
bore them obscurely away. At intervals an individual got out of an
omnibus and adventured hurriedly forth and was lost in the gloom. The
omnibuses, all white, trotted on an inward curve to the pavement,
stopped while the conductor, with hand raised to the bell-string,
murmured apathetically the names of streets and of public-houses, and
then they jerked off again on an outward curve to the impatient double
ting of the bell. To the east was a high defile of hospitals, and to the
west the Workhouse tower faintly imprinted itself on the sombre sky.

The drops of rain grew very large and heavy, and the travellers, instead
of waiting on the kerb, withdrew to the shelter of the wall of the
Queen's Elm. George was now among the group, precipitated like the rest,
as it were, out of the solution of London. George was of the age which
does not admit rain or which believes that it is immune from the usual
consequences of exposure to rain. When advised, especially by women, to
defend himself against the treacheries of the weather, he always
protested confidently that he would 'be all right.' Thus with a stick
and a straw hat he would affront terrible dangers. It was a species of
valour which the event often justified. Indeed he generally was all
right. But to-night, afoot on the way from South Kensington Station in a
region quite unfamiliar to him, he was intimidated by the slapping
menace of the big drops. Reality faced him. His scared thought ran:
"Unless I do something at once I shall get wet through." Impossible to
appear drenched at old Haim's! So he had abandoned all his pretensions
to a magical invulnerability, and rushed under the eave of the Queen's
Elm to join the omnibus group.

He did not harmonize with the omnibus group, being both too elegant and
too high-spirited. His proper rôle in the circumstances would have been
to 'jump into a hansom'; but there were no empty hansoms, and moreover,
for certain reasons of finance, he had sworn off hansoms until a given
date. He regarded the situation as 'rather a lark,' and he somehow knew
that the group understood and appreciated and perhaps resented his
superior and tolerant attitude. An omnibus rolled palely into the
radiance of the Queen's Elm lamp, the horses' flanks and the lofty
driver's apron gleaming with rain. He sprang towards the vehicle; the
whole group sprang. "Full inside!" snapped the conductor inexorably.
Ting, ting! It was gone, glimmering with its enigmatic load into the
distance. George turned again to the wall, humiliated. It seemed wrong
that the conductor should have included him with the knot of common
omnibus-travellers and late workers. The conductor ought to have
differentiated.... He put out a hand. The rain had capriciously ceased!
He departed gaily and triumphantly. He was re-endowed with the magical
invulnerability.

The background of his mind was variegated. The incidents of the
tremendous motor-car race from Paris to Berlin, which had finished
nearly a week earlier, still glowed on it. And the fact that King Edward
VII had driven in a car from Pall Mall to Windsor Castle in sixty
minutes was beautifully present. Then, he was slightly worried
concerning the Mediterranean Fleet. He knew nothing about it, but as a
good citizen he suspected in idle moments, like a number of other good
citizens, that all was not quite well with the Mediterranean Fleet. As
for the war, he had only begun to be interested in the war within the
last six months, and already he was sick of it. He knew that the Boers
had just wrecked a British military train, and his attitude towards such
methods of fighting was rather severe and scornful; he did not regard
them as 'war.' However, the apparent permanence of the war was
splendidly compensated by the victory of the brothers Doherty over the
American lawn-tennis champions in the Gentlemen's Doubles at Wimbledon.
Who could have expected the brothers to win after the defeat of R.H. by
Mr. Gore in the Singles? George had most painfully feared that the
Americans would conquer, and their overthrowing by the twin brothers
indicated to George, who took himself for a serious student of affairs,
that Britain was continuing to exist, and that the new national
self-depreciative, yearning for efficiency might possibly be rather
absurd after all.

In the midst of these and similar thoughts, and of innumerable minor
thoughts about himself, in the very centre of his mind and occupying
nearly the whole of it, was the vast thought, the obsession, of his own
potential power and its fulfilment. George's egotism was terrific, and
as right as any other natural phenomenon. He had to get on. Much money
was included in his scheme, but simply as a by-product. He had to be a
great architect, and--equally important--he had to be publicly
recognized as a great architect, and recognition could not come without
money. For him, the entire created universe was the means to his end. He
would not use it unlawfully, but he would use it. He was using it, as
well as he yet knew how, and with an independence that was as complete
as it was unconscious. In regard to matters upon which his instinct had
not suggested a course of action, George was always ready enough to be
taught; indeed his respect for an expert was truly deferential. But when
his instinct had begun to operate he would consult nobody and consider
nobody, being deeply sure that infallible wisdom had been granted to
him. (Nor did experience seem to teach him.) Thus, in the affair of a
London lodging, though he was still two years from his majority and had
no resources save the purse of his stepfather, Edwin Clayhanger, he had
decided to leave the Orgreaves without asking or even informing his
parents. In his next letter home he would no doubt inform them,
casually, of what he meant to do or actually had done, and if objections
followed he would honestly resent them.

A characteristic example of his independence had happened when at the
unripe age of seventeen he left the Five Towns for London. Upon his
mother's marriage to Edwin Clayhanger his own name had been informally
changed for him to Clayhanger. But a few days before the day of
departure he had announced that, as Clayhanger was not his own name and
that he preferred his own name, he should henceforth be known as
'Cannon,' his father's name. He did not invite discussion. Mr.
Clayhanger had thereupon said to him privately and as one man of the
world to another: "But you aren't really entitled to the name Cannon,
sonny." "Why?" "Because your father was what's commonly known as a
bigamist, and his marriage with your mother was not legal. I thought I'd
take this opportunity of telling you. You needn't say anything to your
mother--unless of course you feel you must." To which George had
replied: "No, I won't. But if Cannon was my father's name I think I'll
have it all the same." And he did have it. The bigamy of his father did
not apparently affect him. Upon further inquiry he learnt that his
father might be alive or might be dead, but that if alive he was in
America.

The few words from Mr. Enwright about Chelsea had sufficed to turn
Chelsea into Elysium, Paradise, almost into Paris. No other quarter of
London was inhabitable by a rising architect. As soon as Haim had gone
George had begun to look up Chelsea in the office library, and as Mr.
Enwright happened to be an active member of the Society for the Survey
of the Memorials of Greater London, the library served him well. In an
hour and a half he had absorbed something of the historical topography
of Chelsea. He knew that the Fulham Road upon which he was now walking
was a boundary of Chelsea. He knew that the Queen's Elm public-house had
its name from the tradition that Elizabeth had once sheltered from a
shower beneath an elm tree which stood at that very corner. He knew that
Chelsea had been a 'village of palaces,' and what was the function of
the Thames in the magnificent life of that village. The secret residence
of Turner in Chelsea, under the strange _alias_ of Admiral Booth,
excited George's admiration; he liked the idea of hidden retreats and
splendid, fanciful pseudonyms. But the master-figure of Chelsea for
George was Sir Thomas More. He could see Sir Thomas More walking in his
majestic garden by the river with the King's arm round his neck, and
Holbein close by, and respectful august prelates and a nagging wife in
the background. And he could see Sir Thomas More taking his barge for
the last journey to the Tower, and Sir Thomas More's daughter coming
back in the same barge with her father's head on board. Curious! He
envied Sir Thomas More.

"Darned bad tower for a village of palaces!" he thought, not of the
Tower of London, but of the tower of the Workhouse which he was now
approaching. He thought he could design an incomparably better tower
than that. And he saw himself in the future, the architect of vast
monuments, strolling in a grand garden of his own at evening with other
distinguished and witty persons.

But there were high-sounding names in the history of Chelsea besides
those of More and Turner. Not names of people! Cremorne and Ranelagh!
Cremorne to the west and Ranelagh to the east. The legend of these
vanished resorts of pleasure and vice stirred his longings and his
sense of romantic beauty--especially Ranelagh with its Rotunda. (He
wanted, when the time came, to be finely vicious, as he wanted to be
everything. An architect could not be great without being everything.)
He projected himself into the Rotunda, with its sixty windows, its
countless refreshment-boxes, its huge paintings, and the orchestra in
the middle, and the expensive and naughty crowd walking round and round
and round on the matting, and the muffled footsteps and the swish of
trains on the matting, and the specious smiles and whispers, and the
blare of the band and the smell of the lamps and candles.... Earl's
Court was a poor, tawdry, unsightly thing after that.

When he had passed under the Workhouse tower he came to a side street
which, according to Haim's description of the neighbourhood, ought to
have been Alexandra Grove. A Gypsie Woman at the Gate woulde faine have
tolde my Fortune; but _Mother_ chased her away, saying she had doubtlesse
harboured in some of the low Houses in _Oxford_, and mighte bring us the
Plague. Coulde have cried for Vexation; she had promised to tell me
the Colour of my Husband's Eyes; but _Mother_ says she believes I
shall never have one, I am soe sillie. _Father_ gave me a gold Piece.
Dear _Mother_ is chafed, methinks, touching this Debt of five hundred
Pounds, which _Father_ says he knows not how to pay.
Indeed, he sayd, overnighte, his whole personal Estate amounts to
but five hundred Pounds, his Timber and Wood to four hundred more, or
thereabouts; and the Tithes and Messuages of _Whateley_ are no great
Matter, being mortgaged for about as much moore, and he hath lent Sights
of Money to them that won't pay, so 'tis hard to be thus prest.
Poor _Father_! 'twas good of him to give me this gold Piece.

_May 2nd, 1643_.

Cousin _Rose_ married to Master _Roger Agnew_. Present, _Father, Mother_,
and _Brother_ of _Rose_.

_Father, Mother, Dick, Bob, Harry_, and I; Squire _Paice_ and his Daughter
_Audrey_; an olde Aunt of Master _Roger's_, and one of his Cousins, a
stiffe-backed Man with large Eares, and such a long Nose! Cousin _Rose_
looked bewtifulle--pitie so faire a Girl should marry so olde a Man--'tis
thoughte he wants not manie Years of fifty.

_May 7th, 1643_.

New Misfortunes in the Poultrie Yarde. Poor _Mother's_ Loyalty cannot
stand the Demands for her best Chickens, Ducklings, etc., for the Use
of his Majesty's Officers since the King hath beene in _Oxford_. She
accuseth my _Father_ of having beene wonne over by a few faire Speeches
to be more of a Royalist than his natural Temper inclineth him to;
which, of course, he will not admit.

_May 8th, 1643_.

Whole Day taken up in a Visit to _Rose_, now a Week married, and
growne quite matronlie already. We reached _Sheepscote_ about an Hour
before Noone. A long, broade, strait Walke of green Turf, planted with
Hollyoaks, Sunflowers, etc., and some earlier Flowers alreadie in
Bloom, led up to the rusticall Porch of a truly farm-like House,
with low gable Roofs, a long lattice Window on either Side the
Doore, and three Casements above.

Such, and no more, is _Rose's_ House! But she is happy, for she came
running forthe, soe soone as she hearde _Clover's_ Feet, and helped me
from my Saddle all smiling, tho' she had not expected to see us.
We had Curds and Creame; and she wished it were the Time of Strawberries,
for she sayd they had large Beds; and then my _Father_ and the
Boys went forthe to looke for Master _Agnew_.
Then _Rose_ took me up to her Chamber, singing as she went; and the long,
low Room was sweet with Flowers. Sayd I, "_Rose_, to be Mistress of
this pretty Cottage, 'twere hardlie amisse to marry a Man as olde as
Master _Roger_." "Olde!" quoth she, "deare _Moll_, you must not deeme him
olde; why, he is but fortytwo; and am not I twenty-three?" She lookt
soe earneste and hurte, that I coulde not but falle a laughing.

_May 9th, 1643_.

_Mother_ gone to _Sandford_.

She hopes to get Uncle _John_ to lend _Father_ this Money.

_Father_ says she may _try_. Tis harde to discourage her with an ironicalle
Smile, when she is doing alle she can, and more than manie Women woulde,
to help _Father_ in his Difficultie; but suche, she sayth somewhat
bitterlie, is the lot of our Sex.

She bade _Father_ mind that she had brought him three thousand
Pounds, and askt what had come of them.

Answered; helped to fille the Mouths of nine healthy Children, and stop
the Mouth of an easie Husband; soe, with a Kiss, made it up. I have
the Keys, and am left Mistresse of alle, to my greate Contentment; but
the Children clamour for Sweetmeats, and _Father_ sayth, "Remember,
_Moll_, Discretion is the better Part of Valour."
After _Mother_ had left, went into the Paddock, to feed the Colts
with Bread; and while they were putting their Noses into _Robin's_
Pockets, _Dick_ brought out the two Ponies, and set me on one of
them, and we had a mad Scamper through the Meadows and down the
Lanes; I leading.

Just at the Turne of _Holford's Close_, came shorte upon a Gentleman
walking under the Hedge, clad in a sober, genteel Suit, and of most
beautifulle Countenance, with Hair like a Woman's, of a lovely pale
brown, long and silky, falling over his Shoulders.

I nearlie went over him, for _Clover's_ hard Forehead knocked agaynst his
Chest; but he stoode it like a Rock; and lookinge firste at me and
then at _Dick_, he smiled and spoke to my Brother, who seemed to
know him, and turned about and walked by us, sometimes stroaking
_Clover's_ shaggy Mane.

I felte a little ashamed; for _Dick_ had sett me on the Poney just as I
was, my Gown somewhat too shorte for riding: however, I drewe up my Feet
and let _Clover_ nibble a little Grasse, and then got rounde to the neare
Side, our new Companion stille between us. He offered me some wild Flowers,
and askt me theire Names; and when I tolde them, he sayd I knew more
than he did, though he accounted himselfe a prettie fayre Botaniste:
and we went on thus, talking of the Herbs and Simples in the Hedges;
and I sayd how prettie some of theire Names were, and that, methought,
though Adam had named alle the Animals in Paradise, perhaps Eve had
named alle the Flowers.

He lookt earnestlie at me, on this, and muttered "prettie." Then
_Dick_ askt of him News from _London_, and he spoke, methought,
reservedlie; ever and anon turning his bright, thoughtfulle Eyes
on me.

At length, we parted at the Turn of the Lane.

I askt _Dick_ who he was, and he told me he was one Mr. _John Milton_, the
Party to whom _Father_ owed five hundred Pounds. He was the Sonne of a
_Buckinghamshire_ Gentleman, he added, well connected, and very
scholarlike, but affected towards the Parliament. His Grandsire, a
zealous Papiste, formerly lived in _Oxon_, and disinherited the Father
of this Gentleman for abjuring the _Romish_ Faith.

When I found how faire a Gentleman was _Father's_ Creditor, I became the
more interested in deare _Mother's_ Successe.

_May 13th, 1643_.

_Dick_ began to harpe on another Ride to _Sheepscote_ this Morning,
and persuaded _Father_ to let him have the bay Mare, soe he and I
started at aboute Ten o' the Clock. Arrived at Master _Agnew's_ Doore,
found it open, no one in Parlour or Studdy; soe _Dick_ tooke the Horses
rounde, and then we went straite thro' the House, into the Garden
behind, which is on a rising Ground, with pleached Alleys
and turfen Walks, and a Peep of the Church through the Trees. A Lad tolde
us his Mistress was with the Bees, soe we walked towards the Hives;
and, from an Arbour hard by, hearde a Murmur, though not of Bees, issuing.
In this rusticall Bowre, found _Roger Agnew_ reading to _Rose_
and to Mr.

_Milton_. Thereupon ensued manie cheerfulle Salutations, and _Rose_
proposed returning to the House, but Master _Agnew_ sayd it was
pleasanter in the Bowre, where was Room for alle; soe then _Rose_ offered
to take me to her Chamber to lay aside my Hoode, and promised to
send a Junkett into the Arbour; whereon Mr. _Agnew_ smiled at Mr.
_Milton_, and sayd somewhat of "neat-handed _Phillis_."
As we went alonge, I tolde _Rose_ I had seene her Guest once before, and
thought him a comely, pleasant Gentleman. She laught, and sayd,
"Pleasant? why, he is one of the greatest Scholars of our Time, and
knows more Languages than you or I ever hearde of." I made Answer,
"That may be, and yet might not ensure his being pleasant, but
rather the contrary, for I cannot reade _Greeke_ and _Latin_, _Rose_,
like you." Quoth _Rose_, "But you can reade _English_, and he hath
writ some of the loveliest _English_ Verses you ever hearde, and
hath brought us a new Composure this Morning, which _Roger_, being his
olde College Friend, was discussing with him, to my greate Pleasure,
when you came.

After we have eaten the Junkett, he shall beginne it again." "By no Means,"
said I, "for I love Talking more than Reading." However, it was not soe
to be, for _Rose_ woulde not be foyled; and as it woulde not have
been good Manners to decline the Hearinge in Presence of the Poet,
I was constrayned to suppresse a secret Yawne, and feign Attention,
though, Truth to say, it soone wandered; and, during the last halfe
Hour, I sat in a compleat Dreame, tho' not unpleasant one.

_Roger_ having made an End, 'twas diverting to heare him commending
the Piece unto the Author, who as gravely accepted it; yet, with
nothing fullesome about the one, or misproud about the other.

Indeed, there was a sedate Sweetnesse in the Poet's Wordes as well
as Lookes; and shortlie, waiving the Discussion of his owne Composures,
he beganne to talke of those of other Men, as _Shakspeare, Spenser,
Cowley, Ben Jonson_, and of _Tasso_, and _Tasso's_ Friend the Marquis
of _Villa_, whome, it appeared, Mr.

_Milton_ had Knowledge of in _Italy_. Then he askt me, woulde I not
willingly have seene the Country of _Romeo_ and _Juliet_, and prest
to know whether I loved Poetry; but finding me loath to tell,
sayd he doubted not I preferred Romances, and that he had read manie,
and loved them dearly too. I sayd, I loved _Shakspeare's_ Plays better
than _Sidney's_ Arcadia; on which he cried "Righte," and drew nearer
to me, and woulde have talked at greater length; but, knowing from
_Rose_ how learned he was, I feared to shew him I was a sillie
Foole; soe, like a sillie Foole, held my Tongue.

Dinner; Eggs, Bacon, roast Ribs of Lamb, Spinach, Potatoes, savoury
Pie, a _Brentford_ Pudding, and Cheesecakes.

What a pretty Housewife _Rose_ is! _Roger's_ plain Hospitalitie and
scholarlie Discourse appeared to much Advantage.

He askt of News from Paris; and Mr.

_Milton_ spoke much of the _Swedish_ Ambassadour, _Dutch_ by Birth; a Man
renowned for his Learning, Magnanimity, and Misfortunes, of whome
he had seene much.

He tolde _Rose_ and me how this Mister _Van der Groote_ had beene
unjustlie caste into Prison by his Countrymen; and how his good
Wife had shared his Captivitie, and had tried to get his Sentence
reversed; failing which, she contrived his Escape in a big Chest,
which she pretended to be full of heavie olde Bookes.

Mr.
_Milton_ concluded with the Exclamation, "Indeede, there never was such
a Woman;" on which, deare _Roger_, whome I beginne to love, quoth,
"Oh yes, there are manie such,--we have two at Table now."

Whereat, Mr.

_Milton_ smiled.

At Leave-taking pressed Mr. _Agnew_ and _Rose_ to come and see us soone;
and _Dick_ askt Mr. _Milton_ to see the Bowling Greene.

Ride Home, delightfulle.

_May 14th, 1643_.

Thought, when I woke this Morning, I had been dreaminge of St.

_Paul_ let down the Wall in a Basket; but founde, on more closely
examining the Matter, 'twas _Grotius_ carried down the Ladder in a Chest;
and methought I was his Wife, leaninge from the Window above, and
crying to the Souldiers, "Have a Care, have a Care!"

'Tis certayn I shoulde have betraied him by an Over-anxietie.

Resolved to give _Father_ a _Sheepscote_ Dinner, but _Margery_
affirmed the Haunch woulde no longer keepe, so was forced to have
it drest, though meaninge to have kept it for Companie.

Little _Kate_, who had been out alle the Morning, came in with her Lap
full of Butter-burs, the which I was glad to see, as _Mother_
esteemes them a sovereign Remedie 'gainst the Plague, which is like
to be rife in _Oxford_ this Summer, the Citie being so overcrowded
on account of his Majestie.

While laying them out on the Stille-room Floor, in bursts _Robin_
to say Mr. _Agnew_ and Mr.

_Milton_ were with _Father_ at the Bowling Greene, and woulde dine
here. Soe was glad _Margery_ had put down the Haunch. Twas past One
o' the Clock, however, before it coulde be sett on Table; and I
had just run up to pin on my Carnation Knots, when I hearde them
alle come in discoursing merrilie.

At Dinner Mr. _Milton_ askt _Robin_ of his Studdies; and I was in Payne
for the deare Boy, knowing him to be better affected to his out-doore
Recreations than to his Booke; but he answered boldlie he was in
_Ovid_, and I lookt in Mr.

_Milton's_ Face to guesse was that goode Scholarship or no; but he
turned it towards my _Father_, and sayd he was trying an Experiment
on two young Nephews of his owne, whether the reading those Authors
that treate of physical Subjects mighte not advantage them more
than the Poets; whereat my _Father_ jested with him, he being
himselfe one of the Fraternitie he seemed to despise.

But he uphelde his Argumente so bravelie, that _Father_ listened in earneste
Silence.

Meantime, the Cloth being drawne, and I in Feare of remaining over
long, was avised to withdrawe myself earlie, _Robin_ following, and
begging me to goe downe to the Fish-ponds.

Afterwards alle the others joyned us, and we sate on the Steps till
the Sun went down, when, the Horses being broughte round, our Guests
tooke Leave without returning to the House.

_Father_ walked thoughtfullie Home with me, leaning on my Shoulder,
and spake little.

_May 15th, 1643_.

After writing the above last Night, in my Chamber, went to Bed and had a
most heavenlie Dreame. Methoughte it was brighte, brighte Moonlighte,
and I was walking with Mr. _Milton_ on a Terrace,--not _our_ Terrace,
but in some outlandish Place; and it had Flights and Flights of green
Marble Steps, descending, I cannot tell how farre, with Stone Figures
and Vases on every one. We went downe and downe these Steps, till we
came to a faire Piece of Water, still in the Moonlighte; and then,
methoughte, he woulde be taking Leave, and sayd much aboute Absence and
Sorrowe, as tho' we had knowne eache other some Space; and alle
that he sayd was delightfulle to heare.

Of a suddain we hearde Cries, as of Distresse, in a Wood that came
quite down to the Water's Edge, and Mr.

_Milton_ sayd, "Hearken!" and then, "There is some one being slaine
in the Woode, I must goe to rescue him;" and soe, drewe his Sword and
ran off. Meanwhile, the Cries continued, but I did not seeme to mind them
much; and, looking stedfastlie downe into the cleare Water, coulde see
to an immeasurable Depth, and beheld, oh, rare! Girls sitting on
glistening Rocks, far downe beneathe, combing and braiding their
brighte Hair, and talking and laughing, onlie I coulde not heare aboute
what. And theire Kirtles were like spun Glass, and theire Bracelets
Coral and Pearl; and I thought it the fairest Sight that Eyes
coulde see. But, alle at once, the Cries in the Wood affrighted them,
for they started, looked upwards and alle aboute, and began swimming thro'
the cleare Water so fast, that it became troubled and thick, and
I coulde see them noe more.

Then I was aware that the Voices in the Wood were of _Dick_ and _Harry_,
calling for _me_; and I soughte to answer, "Here!"

but my Tongue was heavie.

Then I commenced running towards them, through ever so manie greene
Paths, in the Wood; but still, we coulde never meet; and I began to
see grinning Faces, neither of Man nor Beaste, peeping at me through
the Trees; and one and another of them called me by Name; and in greate
Feare and Paine I awoke!

. . . Strange Things are Dreames.

Dear _Mother_ thinks much of them, and sayth they oft portend coming
Events.

My _Father_ holdeth the Opinion that they are rather made up of
what hath alreadie come to passe; but surelie naught like this
Dreame of mine hath in anie Part befallen me hithertoe?

. . . What strange Fable or Masque were they reading that Day at _Sheepscote_?
I mind not.

_May 20th, 1643_.

Too much busied of late to write, though much hath happened which I
woulde fain remember. Dined at _Shotover_ yesterday. Met _Mother_,
who is coming Home in a Day or two; but helde short Speech with me
aside concerning Housewifery. The _Agnews_ there, of course: alsoe
Mr.
_Milton_, whom we have seene continuallie, lately; and I know not how
it shoulde be, but he seemeth to like me. _Father_ affects him much,
but _Mother_ loveth him not. She hath seene little of him: perhaps
the less the better. _Ralph Hewlett_, as usuall, forward in his rough
endeavours to please; but, though no Scholar, I have yet Sense
enough to prefer Mr.

_Milton's_ Discourse to his. . . .

I wish I were fonder of Studdy; but, since it cannot be, what need to vex?
Some are born of one Mind, some of another.

_Rose_ was alwaies for her Booke; and, had _Rose_ beene no Scholar,
Mr.

_Agnew_ woulde, may be, never have given her a second Thoughte: but
alle are not of the same Way of thinking.

. . .

A few Lines received from _Mother's_ "spoilt Boy," as _Father_ hath called
Brother _Bill_, ever since he went a soldiering. Blurred and mis-spelt
as they are, she will prize them. Trulie, we are none of us grate
hands at the Pen; 'tis well I make this my Copie-booke.

. . . Oh, strange Event! Can this be Happinesse? Why, then, am I soe
feared, soe mazed, soe prone to weeping?

I woulde that _Mother_ were here. Lord have Mercie on me a sinfulle,
sillie Girl, and guide my Steps arighte.

. . . It seemes like a Dreame, (I have done noughte but dreame of
late, I think,) my going along the matted Passage, and hearing
Voices in my _Father's_ Chamber, just as my Hand was on the Latch;
and my withdrawing my Hand, and going softlie away, though I never
paused at disturbing him before; and, after I had beene a full Houre
in the Stille Room, turning over ever soe manie Trays full of dried
Herbs and Flower-leaves, hearing him come forthe and call, "_Moll_,
deare _Moll_, where are you?"

with I know not what of strange in the Tone of his Voice; and my
running to him hastilie, and his drawing me into his Chamber, and
closing the Doore.

Then he takes me round the Waiste, and remains quite silent awhile; I
gazing on him so strangelie! and at length, he says with a Kind of Sigh,
"Thou art indeed but young yet!
scarce seventeen,--and fresh, as Mr. _Milton_ says, as the earlie
May; too tender, forsooth, to leave us yet, sweet Child! But what
wilt say, _Moll_, when I tell thee that a well-esteemed Gentleman,
whom as yet indeed I know too little of, hath craved of me Access to
the House as one that woulde win your Favour?"

Thereupon, such a suddain Faintness of the Spiritts overtooke me,
(a Thing I am noe way subject to,) as that I fell down in a Swound
at _Father's_ Feet; and when I came to myselfe again, my Hands and
Feet seemed full of Prickles, and there was a Humming, as of _Rose's_
Bees, in mine Ears.

_Lettice_ and _Margery_ were tending of me, and _Father_ watching
me full of Care; but soe soone as he saw me open mine Eyes, he bade
the Maids stand aside, and sayd, stooping over me, "Enough, dear
_Moll_; we will talk noe more of this at present."

"Onlie just tell me," quoth I, in a Whisper, "who it is."

"Guesse," sayd he. "I cannot," I softlie replied, and, with the Lie, came
such a Rush of Blood to my Cheeks as betraied me. "I am sure you
have though," sayd deare _Father_, gravelie, "and I neede not say it
is Mr. _Milton_, of whome I know little more than you doe, and that is
not enough. On the other Hand, _Roger Agnew_ sayth that he is one
of whome we can never know too much, and there is somewhat about him
which inclines me to believe it." "What will _Mother_ say?" interrupted
I. Thereat _Father's_ Countenance changed; and he hastilie answered,
"Whatever she likes: I have an Answer for her, and a Question too;" and
abruptlie left me, bidding me keepe myselfe quiet.

But can I? Oh, no!

_Father_ hath sett a Stone rolling, unwitting of its Course. It hath
prostrated me in the first Instance, and will, I misdoubt, hurt
my _Mother_.

_Father_ is bold enow in her Absence, but when she comes back will
leave me to face her Anger alone; or else, make such a Stir to shew
that he is not governed by a Woman, as wille make Things worse.

Meanwhile, how woulde I have them? Am I most pleased or payned? dismayed
or flattered? Indeed, I know not.

. . . I am soe sorry to have swooned. Needed I have done it, merelie
to heare there was one who soughte my Favour? Aye, but one soe wise!
so thoughtfulle! so unlike me!

Bedtime: same Daye.

. . . Who knoweth what a Daye will bring forth? After writing the above,
I sate like one stupid, ruminating on I know not what,
except on the Unlikelihood that one soe wise woulde trouble
himselfe to _seeke_ for aught and yet fail to _win_. After abiding a long
Space in mine owne Chamber, alle below seeming still, I began to
wonder shoulde we dine alone or not, and to have a hundred hot and
cold Fitts of Hope and Feare. Thought I, if Mr. _Milton_ comes, assuredlie
I cannot goe down; but yet I must; but yet I will not; but yet the
best will be to conduct myselfe as though nothing had happened;
and, as he seems to have left the House long ago, maybe he hath returned
to _Sheepscote_, or even to _London_. Oh that _London_! Shall I indeede
ever see it? and the rare Shops, and the Play-houses, and _Paul's_, and
the _Towre_?
Mr. Haim next disturbed them. The shabby, respectable old man smiled
vaguely, with averted glance.

"I think he's heard the result," said he.

Both men knew that 'he' was Mr. Enwright, and that the 'result' was the
result of the open competition for the £150,000 Law Courts which a proud
provincial city proposed to erect for itself. The whole office had
worked very hard on the drawings for that competition throughout the
summer, while cursing the corporation which had chosen so unusual a date
for sending-in day. Even Lucas had worked. George's ideas for certain
details, upon which he had been engaged on the evening of his
introduction to Mr. Haim's household, had been accepted by Mr. Enwright.
As for Mr. Enwright, though the exigencies of his beard, and his regular
morning habit of inveighing against the profession at great length, and
his inability to decide where he should lunch, generally prevented him
from beginning the day until three o'clock in the afternoon, Mr.
Enwright had given many highly concentrated hours of creative energy to
the design. And Mr. Haim had adorned the sheets with the finest
lettering. The design was held to be very good. The principals knew the
identity of all the other chief competitors and their powers, and they
knew also the idiosyncrasies of the Assessor; and their expert and
impartial opinion was that the Lucas & Enwright design ought to win and
would win. This view, indeed, was widespread in the arcana of the
architectural world. George had gradually grown certain of victory. And
yet, at Mr. Haim's words, his hopes sank horribly away.

"Have we won?" he asked sharply.

"That I can't say, Mr. Cannon," answered Haim.

"Well, then, how do you know he's heard? Has he told you?"

"No," said the factotum mysteriously. "But I think he's heard." And upon
this Mr. Haim slouched off quite calmly. Often he had assisted at the
advent of such vital news in the office--news obtained in advance by the
principals through secret channels--and often the news had been bad. But
the firm's calamities seemed never to affect the smoothness of Mr.
Haim's earthly passage.

The door into the principals' room opened, and Mr. Enwright's head
showed. The gloomy, resenting eyes fixed George for an instant.

"Well, you've lost that competition," said Mr. Enwright, and he stepped
into full view. His unseen partner had ceased to dictate, and the
shorthand-clerk could be heard going out by the other door.

"No!" said George, in a long, outraged murmur. The news seemed
incredible and quite disastrous; and yet at the same time had he not, in
one unvisited corner of his mind, always foreknown it? Suddenly he was
distressed, discouraged, disillusioned about the whole of life. He
thought that Everard Lucas, screwing up a compass, was strangely
unmoved. But Mr. Enwright ignored Lucas.

"Who's got it?" George asked.

"Whinburn."

"That chap!... Where are _we_?"

"Nowhere."

"Not placed?"

"Not in it. Skelting's second. And Grant third. I shouldn't have minded
so much if Grant had got it. There was something to be said for his
scheme. I knew _we_ shouldn't get it. I knew that perfectly well--not
with Corver assessing."

George wondered that his admired principal should thus state the exact
opposite of what he had so often affirmed during the last few weeks.
People were certainly very queer, even the best of them. The perception
of this fact added to his puzzled woe.

"But Whinburn's design is grotesque!" he protested borrowing one of Mr.
Enwright's adjectives.

"Of course it is."

"Then why does Sir Hugh Corver go and give him the award? Surely he must
know----"

"Know!" Mr. Enwright growled, destroying Sir Hugh and his reputation and
his pretensions with one single monosyllable.

"Then why did they make him Assessor--that's what I can't understand."

"It's quite simple," rasped Mr. Enwright. "They made him assessor
because he's got so much work to do it takes him all his time to trot
about from one job to another on his blooming pony. They made him
assessor because his pony's a piebald pony. Couldn't you think of that
for yourself? Or have you been stone deaf in this office for two years?
It stands to reason that a man who's responsible for all the largest
new eyesores in London would impress any corporation. Clever chap,
Corver! Instead of wasting his time in travel and study, he made a
speciality of learning how to talk to committees. And he was always full
of ideas like the piebald pony, ever since I knew him."

"It's that façade that did for us," broke in another voice. John
Orgreave stood behind Mr. Enwright. He spoke easily; he was not ruffled
by the immense disappointment, though the mournful greatness of the
topic had drawn him irresistibly into the discussion. John Orgreave had
grown rather fat and coarse. At one period, in the Five Towns, he had
been George's hero. He was so no longer. George was still fond of him,
but he had torn him down from the pedestal and established Mr. Enwright
in his place. George in his heart now somewhat patronized the placid
Orgreave, regarding him as an excellent person who comprehended naught
that was worth comprehending, and as a husband who was the dupe of his
wife.

"You couldn't have any other façade," Mr. Enwright turned on him,
"unless you're absolutely going to ignore the market on the other side
of the Square. Whinburn's façade is an outrage--an outrage. Give me a
cigarette. I must run out and get shaved."

While Mr. Enwright was lighting the cigarette, George reflected in
desolation upon the slow evolving of the firm's design for the Law
Courts. Again and again in the course of the work had he been struck
into a worshipping enthusiasm by the brilliance of Mr. Enwright's
invention and the happy beauty of his ideas. For George there was only
one architect in the world; he was convinced that nobody could possibly
rival Mr. Enwright, and that no Law Courts ever had been conceived equal
to those Law Courts. And he himself had contributed something to the
creation. He had dreamed of the building erected and of being able to
stand in front of some detail of it and say to himself: "That was my
notion, that was." And now the building was destroyed before its birth.
It would never come into existence. It was wasted. And the prospect for
the firm of several years' remunerative and satisfying labour had
vanished. But the ridiculous, canny Whinburn would be profitably
occupied, and his grotesque building would actually arise, and people
would praise it, and it would survive for centuries--at any rate for a
century.

Mr. Enwright did not move.

"It's no use regretting the façade, Orgreave," he said suddenly.
"There's such a thing as self-respect."

"I don't see that self-respect's got much to do with it," Orgreave
replied lightly.

("Of course you don't," George thought. "You're a decent sort, but you
don't see, and you never will see. Even Lucas doesn't see. I alone see."
And he felt savage and defiant.)

"Better shove my self-respect away into this cupboard, I suppose!" said
Mr. Enwright, with the most acrid cynicism, and he pulled open one door
of a long, low cupboard whose top formed a table for portfolios, dusty
illustrated books, and other accumulations.

The gesture was dramatic, and none knew it better than Mr. Enwright. The
cupboard was the cupboard which contained the skeleton. It was full of
designs rejected in public competitions. There they lay, piles and piles
of them, the earliest dating from the late seventies. The cupboard was
crammed with the futility of Enwright's genius. It held monuments enough
to make illustrious a score of cities. Lucas & Enwright was a successful
firm. But, confining itself chiefly to large public works, it could not
escape from the competition system; and it had lost in far more
competitions than it had won. It was always, and always would be, at the
mercy of an Assessor. The chances had always been, and always would be,
against the acceptance of its designs, because they had the fatal
quality of originality combined with modest adherence to the classical
tradition. When they conquered, it was by sheer force. George glanced at
the skeleton, and he was afraid. Something was very wrong with
architecture. He agreed with Mr. Enwright's tiresomely reiterated axiom
that it was the Cinderella of professions and the chosen field of
ghastly injustice. He had embraced architecture; he had determined to
follow exactly in the footsteps of Mr. Enwright; he had sworn to
succeed. But could he succeed? Suppose he failed! Yes, his faith
faltered. He was intensely, miserably afraid. He was the most serious
man in Russell Square. Astounding that only a few minutes ago he had
hung triumphantly by his feet from the mantelpiece!

Mr. Enwright kicked-to the door of the cupboard.

"Look here," he said to his partner, "I shan't be back just yet. I have
to go and see Bentley. I'd forgotten it."

Nobody was surprised at this remark. Whenever Mr. Enwright was
inconveniently set back he always went off to visit Bentley, the
architect of the new Roman Catholic Cathedral at Westminster, on the
plea of an urgent appointment.

"_You_ had a look at the cathedral lately?" he demanded of George as he
left.

"No, I haven't," said George, who, by reason of a series of
unaccountable omissions, and of the fullness of his life as an architect
and a man of the world, had never seen the celebrated cathedral at all.

"Well," said Mr. Enwright sarcastically, "better take just a glance at
it--some time--before they've spoilt the thing with decorations. There's
a whole lot of 'em only waiting till Bentley's out of the way to begin
and ruin it."


II


Before the regular closing hour of the office the two articled pupils
had left and were walking side by side through Bloomsbury. They skirted
the oval garden of Bedford Square, which, lying off the main track to
the northern termini, and with nothing baser in it than a consulate or
so, took precedence in austerity and selectness over Russell Square,
which had consented to receive a grand hotel or 'modern caravanserai'
and a shorthand school. Indeed the aspect of Bedford Square, where the
great institution of the basement and area still flourished in
perfection, and wealthy menials with traditional manners lived sensually
in caves beneath the spacious, calm salons of their employers and
dupes,--the aspect of Bedford Square gave the illusion that evolution
was not, and that Bloomsbury and the whole impressive structure of
British society could never change. Still, from a more dubious
Bloomsbury, demure creatures with inviting, indiscreet eyes were already
traversing the prim flags of Bedford Square on their way to the
evening's hard diplomacy. Mr. Lucas made quiet remarks about their
qualities, but George did not respond.

"Look here, old man," said Lucas, "there's no use in all this gloom. You
might think Lucas & Enwright had never put up a building in their lives.
Just as well to dwell now and then on what they have done instead of on
what they haven't done. We're fairly busy, you know. Besides----"

He spoke seriously, tactfully, with charm, and he had a beautiful voice.

"Quite right! Quite right!" George willingly agreed, swinging his stick
and gazing straight ahead. And he thought: "This chap has got his head
screwed on. He's miles wiser than I am, and he's really nice. I could
never be nice like that."

In a moment they were at the turbulent junction of Tottenham Court Road
and Oxford Street, where crowds of Londoners, deeply unconscious of
their own vulgarity, and of the marvellous distinction of Bedford
Square, and of the moral obligation to harmonize socks with neckties,
were preoccupying themselves with omnibuses and routes, and constituting
the spectacle of London. The high-heeled, demure creatures were lost in
this crowd, and Lucas and George were lost in it.

"Well," said Lucas, halting on the pavement. "You're going down to the
cathedral."

"It'll please the old cock," answered George, anxious to disavow any
higher motive. "You aren't coming?"

Lucas shook his head. "I shall just go and snatch a hasty".... 'Cup of
tea' was the unuttered end of the sentence.

"Puffin's?"

Lucas nodded. Puffin's was a cosy house of sustenance in a half-new
street on the site of the razed slums of St. Giles's. He would not
frequent the orthodox tea-houses, which were all alike and which had
other serious disadvantages. He adventured into the unusual, and could
always demonstrate that what he found was subtly superior to anything
else.

"That affair still on?" George questioned.

"It's not off."

"She's a nice little thing--that I will say."

"It all depends," Lucas replied sternly. "I don't mind telling you she
wasn't so jolly nice on Tuesday."

"Wasn't she?" George raised his eyebrows.

Lucas silently scowled, and his handsomeness vanished for an instant.

"However----" he said.

As George walked alone down Charing Cross Road, he thought: "That girl
will have to look out,"--meaning that in his opinion Lucas was not a man
to be trifled with. Lucas was a wise and an experienced man, and knew
the world. And what he did could not be other than right. This notion
comforted George, who had a small affair of his own, which he had not
yet even mentioned to Lucas. Delicacy as well as diffidence had
prevented him from doing so. It was a very different affair from any of
Lucas's, and he did not want Lucas to misesteem it; neither did he want
Lucas to be under the temptation to regard him as a ninny.

Not the cathedral alone had induced George to leave the office early.
The dissembler had reflected that if he called in a certain conventional
tea-shop near Cambridge Circus at a certain hour he would probably meet
Marguerite Haim. He would detect you an old black-letter ballad among
the leaves of a law-paper, and find an _editio princeps_ under the
mask of a school Corderius. Snuffy Davy bought the 'Game of Chess,
1474,' the first book ever printed in England, from a stall in Holland
for about two groschen, or two-pence of our money. He sold it to Osborne
for twenty pounds, and as many books as came to twenty pounds
more. Osborne re-sold this inimitable windfall to Dr. Askew
for sixty guineas. At Dr.
Askew's sale," continued the old gentleman, kindling as he spoke, "this
inestimable treasure blazed forth in its full value and was purchased
by Royalty itself for one hundred and seventy pounds! Could a
copy now occur, Lord only knows," he ejaculated with a deep sigh and
lifted-up hands, "Lord only knows what would be its ransom; and yet
it was originally secured, by skill and research, for the easy equivalent
of two-pence sterling."'
Sir Walter Scott in a footnote adds:--"This bibliomaniacal anecdote
is literally true; and David Wilson, the author need not tell his
brethren of the Roxburghe and Bannatyne Clubs, was a real personage."
Mr. Blades, whose iconoclastic temper is not moved to mercy even by this
good story, says that although it "looks like a true bibliographical
anecdote," its appearance is deceptive, and that "not a single statement
is founded on fact."[1]

Jonathan Oldbuck did not venture to estimate the sum that would
ransom a copy of the "Game of Chesse," and the world of the bibliomania
has moved even since his days, so that prices which seemed fabulous,
and were recounted with a sort of awe-struck wonder, have been
surpassed in these latter days, and the chances of any successor
of "Snuffy Davy" buying a Caxton for two groschen have been greatly
reduced.

According to Mr. William Blades, our latest and best authority on the
subject, there are but ten copies known of the first edition of the
"Chesse" book.[2] There is a perfect copy in the King's Library
in the British Museum.

This is what ought to be Snuffy Davy's copy. A previous owner--R. Boys--has
noted that it cost him 3_s_.

The copy in the Grenville Library has the table and last leaf
supplied in facsimile.

The copy in the Public Library at Cambridge is defective to the
extent of five leaves.

The Bodleian copy wants the last leaf.

The Duke of Devonshire's copy formerly belonged to Roger Wilbraham, and
the first and eighth leaves are supplied in facsimile. The exemplar
belonging to the Earl of Pembroke is perfect, "but on weak and
stained paper." Earl Spencer's copy is perfect, clean, and unusually
large. Mr. H. Cunliffe's copy came from the Alchorne and
Inglis Libraries, and wants the first two printed leaves, two near the
end, and the last two. Mr. J. Holford's copy is perfect and in its
original binding. It was once in the library of Sir Henry Mainwaring
of Peover Hall, as his bookplate shows. On a fly-leaf is written, "Ex
dono Thomæ Delves, Baronett 1682." The copy belonging to the Rev. Edward
Bankes is imperfect, and wants the dedicatory leaf and is slightly
wormed.

The book, when complete, consists of eight quaternions or eight leaves
folded together and one quinternion or section of five sheets
folded together, making in all seventy-four leaves, of which the
first and last are blank.

The only type used throughout is that styled No. 1 by Mr.
Blades. The lines are not spaced out; the longest measure five inches; a
full page has thirty-one lines.

Without title-page, signatures, numerals, or catch-words. The
volume, as already mentioned, begins with a blank leaf, and on the second
recto is Caxton's prologue, space being left for a two-line initial,
without director. The text begins with a dedication:--"(T)o the right
noble/ right excellent & vertuous prince George duc of Clarence Erl of
Warwyk and of Salisburye/ grete chamberlayn of Englond & leutenant of
Ireland oldest broder of kynge Edward by the grace of god kynge of
England and of France/ your most humble servant william Caxton amonge
other of your servantes sendes unto yow peas. helthe. Joye and victorye
upon your Enemyes/ Right highe puyssant and." The text ends on the
seventy-third recto, thus:--"And sende yow thaccomplisshement of
your hye noble. Joyous and vertuous desirs Amen:/: Fynysshid the
lastday of Marche the yer of our lord god.
a. thousand foure honderd and LXXIIII. *. *. *. *." The seventy-fourth
leaf is blank.

It is unnecessary to say that this book seldom comes into the market.
The recorded sales are very few. In 1682 R. Smith sold a perfect copy
for 13s. 2d. In 1773 J. West's copy was bought by George III. for.£32
0s. 6d. Alchorne's imperfect copy was bought by Inglis for £54 12s.,
and at the sale of his books found a purchaser in Lord Audley for £31
10s., and was again transferred, in 1855, to the possession of
Mr. J. Cunliffe for £60 l0s. 0d.[3] Mr. J. Holford's copy was bought at
the Mainwaring sale for £101.

The last copy offered for sale was described in one of Mr. Bernard
Quaritch's catalogues issued in 1872, and the account given
by that veteran bibliopole is well worth reproduction.

CAXTON'S GAME AND PLAY OF CHESS MORALIZED, (translated 1474) FIRST
EDITION, folio, 65 LEAVES (of the 72), bound in old ruffia gilt,
£400.

[Blackletter: Fynyshid the last day of Marche the yer of our Lord
God, a thousand foure hondred and lxxiiii....]

An extremely large, though somewhat imperfect copy of
THE FIRST BOOK PRINTED IN ENGLAND, from Caxton's press.

Mr. Blades quotes 9 copies (4 perfect, 5 imperfect), the present is
the 10th known copy, and is TALLER than even the Grenville--hitherto
the tallest known copy; my copy measures 11-1/8 inch in height by
8 in width, whilst the Grenville copy (also imperfect) is only 11
inches high.

COLLATION of _my copy_:

[Blackletter: This Booke conteyneth iiii traytees] 1 _leaf_.

[Blackletter: This first chapiter of the first tractate] 1 _leaf_.
[Blackletter: The trouthe for to do Justice right wysly,] etc. to the
end 62 _leaves_.

_The last leaf with the date:_ [Blackletter: In conquerynge his
rightful inheritance,] _ending:_ [Blackletter: fynyshed], _etc._
1474 1 _leaf_.
------------- 65 leaves.

My copy wants therefore 7 leaves, the two blank ones being out of
question.

The imperfections include the first leaf, and two leaves in
the second chapitre of the fourth tractate, the end is all right.

I should be glad to hear of any IMPERFECT COPY of this work, which
would supply me with what I want.

In the mean time this precious relic of the Infancy of Printing in
England can be feen by BUYERS of Rare books.

_See_ Dibdin's Bibl. Spenc.

IV. p. 189.

No copy of this edition has been sold for years; in 1813, Alchorne's
copy, wanting first two leaves, the last two leaves and two leaves in
the second chapter of the fourth tractate, fetched at Evans', £54.
12_s_. The value of this class of books has much risen since then, and
may now be considered, as ten times greater.

In comparing the first edition of "Caxton's Game of Chess" with the
second, one perceives many variations in the spelling. I confider the
_first edition_ to be the more interesting, for a variety of
reasons:

1.

It is the first book printed in England.
2. It is the _Editio princeps_ of the English version.
3.

It shows the Art of Printing in its crudest form.
4. It has a Post-script not in the second edition.

Both editions run on together to the passage on the last page of
the second edition:

[Blackletter:
And a mon that lyvyth in thys world without vertues lyveth not as
a man but as a beste.]

The first edition ends thus:

[Blackletter: And therefore my right redoubted Lord I pray almighty god
to save the Kyng our soverain lord to gyve him grace to yssue as a
Kynge tabounde in all vertues/ to be assisted with all other his
lordes in such wyse yn his noble royame of England may prospere/
habounde in vertues and yn synne may be eschewid justice kepte/ the
royame defended good men rewarded malefactours punyshid the ydle peple
to be put to laboure that he wyth the nobles of the royame may regne
gloriously.

In conquerynge his rightfull inheritaunce / that verraypeas and charitie
may endure in both his royames and that marchandise may have his cours
in suche wise that every man eschewe synne/ and encrese in vertuous
occupacions / Praynge your good grace to resseyve this lityll and
symple book made under the hope and shadow of your noble protection
by hym that is your most humble servant in gree and thanke.

And I shall praye almighty god for your long lyf & welfare / which
he preserve And sende now thaccomplishment of your hye noble joyous
and vertuous desirs Amen:|:
Fynysshid the last day of marche the yer of our lord god a. thousand
four hondred and lxxiiii. *.:.:.*.]

The second edition ends thus:

[Blackletter: Thenne late every man of what condycion he be
that redyth or herith this litel book redde. take therby ensaumple
to amend hym.

Explicit per Caxton.]
This copy came from the library of Mr. L.M. Petit.[4]
It will be noticed that Mr. Quaritch calls the _editio princeps_ of
Caxton's "Game and Play of the Chesse" the first book printed in
England.

This was the general opinion of bibliographers before the investigations
of Mr. Blades. Dibdin, although he seems to have had some doubt,
pronounced in favour of that view. Yet it is clearly erroneous.
The only materials for judgment are those afforded by the colophon and the
prologue to the second edition, with the silent but eloquent testimony
of typography.

Caxton ends the first edition with the words:--"Fynysshid the last
day of Marche the yer of our lord god a thousand four hondred and
LXXIIII." The word "fynysshid," as Mr. Blades observes, "has doubtless
the same signification here as in the epilogue to the second book of
Caxton's translation of the Histories of Troy, 'Begonne in Brugis,
contynued in Gaunt and finysshed in Coleyn,' which evidently refers
to the translation only.

The date, 1475-6, has been affixed, because in the Low Countries at
that time the year commenced on Easter-day; this in 1474 fell on
April 10th, thus giving, as the day of the conclusion of the
translation, 31 March 1475, the same year being the earliest possible
period of its appearance as a printed book."

Then there is Caxton's own racy account of the circumstances under which
the book first appeared:--
"And emong alle other good werkys It is a werke of ryght special
recomendacion to enforme and to late vnderstonde wysedom and vertue
vnto them that be not lernyd ne can not dyscerne wysedom fro folye
Th[=e]ne emonge whom there was an excellent doctour of dyuynyte in
the royame of fraunce of the ordre of thospytal of Saynt Johns of
Jherusalem which entended the same and hath made a book of the
chesse moralysed whiche at suche tyme as I was resident in brudgys
in the counte of Flaundres cam into my handes/ whiche whan I had
redde and ouerseen/ me semed ful necessarye for to be had in
englisshe/ And in eschewyng of ydlenes And to thende that s[=o]me
which haue not seen it/ ne [=v]nderstonde frenssh ne latyn J delybered
in my self to translate it in to our maternal tonge/ And whan I so
had achyeued the sayd translacion/ J dyde doo sette in enprynte a
certeyn nombre of theym/ Whiche anone were depesshed and solde
wherfore by cause thys sayd book is ful of holsom wysedom and
requysyte vnto euery astate and degree/ J haue purposed to enprynte
it/
shewyng therin the figures of suche persons as longen to the playe."

It is clear from this that both the translation and printing belong to
the period of Caxton's residence in Bruges.

From the use of the instrumental form "dyde doo sette en enprynte" it might
be thought that Caxton employed the services of some printer, but
although commonly so employed, there are instances which will not
bear this interpretation of its intention.[5] He either employed a printer
or made some partnerfhip with one, and there are various indications
that confirm Mr. Blades' theory that the book came from the press of
Colard Mansion.

The second edition is undoubtedly the work of our first English
printer.
"Explicit per Caxton" is the unambiguous statement of the colophon.

It is a much more advanced specimen of typography than the first edition.

It has signatures, of which _a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h, i,_ are
quaternions, _k_ and _l_ are terternions, making in all eighty-four
leaves, of which the first is blank.

There is no title-page, and the type used is that which Mr. Blades reckons
as No. 2*. The lines are spaced out to an even length. There are
twenty-nine lines to a full page, and the full line measures 4-7/8
inches.

The prologue begins on _a ij_., and the table of chapters begins on the
next page. The text begins on the recto of _a iii_. The text ends on the
recto of _l_ 6, the last page being blank.

There are sixteen woodcuts in the volume, which are used twenty-four
times.

There has been some diversity of opinion as to the year in which
this "Game of the Chesse" came from the press of Caxton.

The book is not dated. Dibdin thought it one of the printer's earliest
efforts. Figgins regarded it as the earliest issue of the
Westminster press, and further believed that it was printed from cut
metal types. This is not the view of Mr. Blades, who says: "An examination
of the work, however, with a typographical eye does not afford a single
evidence of very early workmanship. All Caxton's early books were
uneven in the length of their lines--this is quite even. Not one of the
early works had any signatures--this is signed throughout.
These two features alone are quite sufficient to fix its date of
impression at least as late as 1480, when Caxton first began the
use of signatures; but when we find that every known copy of this
edition of the 'Chess-Book' presents a thicker and more worn
appearance than any one copy of any other book, there is good reason
for supposing that this may have followed the 'Tulli' of 1481, and
have been the last book for which Type No. 2* was used

."[6]

Mr. Blades describes nine known copies, so that even fewer exemplars
remain of the second edition than of its predecessor. The copy in the
King's Library in the British Museum is imperfect, wanting several
leaves, and is mended in many places. The copy in the Pepysian Collection
at Cambridge wants one-half of the last leaf. Trinity College, Cambridge,
has a perfect copy, "but a bad impression." The Bodleian copy is defective
in not having the last leaf. St. John's College, Oxford, has a copy,
from which one-half of _d iii_. has been torn away.

The Imperial Library at Vienna has an imperfect copy. The Duke of
Devonshire's copy is perfect, but it is "a poor impression, and slightly
stained." The Earl of Pembroke's copy is very imperfect. Earl
Spencer's is only slightly imperfect. The prices fetched by the second
edition have a sufficiently wide range. In 1698, at Dr. Bernard's
sale, a copy fold for 1s. 6d. Farmer's copy in 1798 fetched £4 4s.
Ratcliffe's copy was bought at his sale for £16 by Willett; and when
his books came to the hammer in 1813, it was purchased by the Duke of
Devonshire for £173 5s.[7] It is interesting to know that the copy of the
second edition in the Bibliotheca Spenceriana formerly belonged to Laurence
Sterne, who bought it for a few shillings at York![8]
In the present reprint, the text followed is that of the first edition,
transcribed from the copy in the British Museum; but the variations,
alterations, and additions made in the second issue are all recorded
in footnotes.

Cannon," he said, pouring beer into a glass with an up-and-down
motion of the bottle so as to put a sparkling head on the beer.

"No, thank you," said George decidedly. "I won't have beer."

Mr. Buckingham Smith gazed at him challengingly out of his black eyes.
"Oh! But you've got to," he said. It was as if he had said: "I am
generous. I love to be hospitable, but I am not going to have my
hospitality thwarted, and you needn't think it."

George accepted the beer and joined in the toasting of Mr. Alfred
Prince's health.

"Old chap!" Mr. Buckingham Smith greeted his chum, and then to George
and Marguerite, informingly and seriously: "One of the best."

It was during the snack that Mr. Buckingham Smith began to display the
etchings of Mr. Alfred Prince, massed in a portfolio. He extolled them
with his mouth half-full of brawn, or between two gulps of Pilsener.
They impressed George deeply--they were so rich and dark and austere.

"Old Princey boy's one of the finest etchers in Europe to-day, if you
ask me," said Mr. Buckingham Smith off-handedly, and with the air of
stating the obvious. And George thought that Mr. Prince was. The
etchings were not signed 'Alfred Prince,' but just 'Prince,' which was
quietly imposing. Everybody agreed that Vienna had chosen the best one.

"It's a dry-point, isn't it?" Marguerite asked, peering into it. George
started. This single remark convinced him that she knew all about
etching, whereas he himself knew nothing. He did not even know exactly
what a dry-point was.

"Mostly," said Mr. Prince. "You can only get that peculiar quality of
line in dry-point."

George perceived that etching was an entrancing subject, and he
determined to learn something about it--everything about it.

Then came the turn of Mr. Buckingham Smith's paintings. These were not
signed 'Smith' as the etchings were signed 'Prince.' By no means! They
were signed 'Buckingham Smith.' George much admired them, though less
than he admired the etchings. They were very striking and ingenious, in
particular the portraits and the still-life subjects. He had to admit
that these fellows to whom he had scarcely given a thought, these
fellows who existed darkly behind the house, were prodigiously
accomplished.

"Of course," said Mr. Buckingham Smith negligently, "you can't get any
idea of them by this light--though," he added warningly, "it's the
finest artificial light going. Better than all your electricity."

There was a pause, and Mr. Prince sighed and said:

"I was thinking of going up to the Promenades to-night, but Buck won't
go."

George took fire at once. "The Glazounov ballet music?"

"Glazounov?" repeated Mr. Prince uncertainly. "No. I rather wanted to
hear the new Elgar."

George was disappointed, for he had derived from Mr. Enwright positive
opinions about the relative importance of Elgar and Glazounov.

"Go often?" he asked.

"No," said Mr. Prince. "I haven't been this season yet, but I'm always
meaning to." He smiled apologetically. "And I thought to-night----"
Despite appearances, he was not indifferent after all to his great
Viennese triumph; he had had some mild notion of his own of celebrating
the affair.

"I suppose this is what etchings are printed with," said George to Mr.
Buckingham Smith, for the sake of conversation, and he moved towards the
press. The reception given to the wonderful name of Glazounov in that
studio was more than a disappointment for George; he felt obscurely that
it amounted to a snub.

Mr. Buckingham Smith instantly became the urbane and alert showman. He
explained how the pressure was regulated. He pulled the capstan-like
arms of the motive wheel and the blanketed steel bed slid smoothly under
the glittering cylinder. Although George had often been in his
stepfather's printing works he now felt for the first time the
fascination of manual work, of artisanship, in art, and he regretted
that the architect had no such labour. He could indistinctly hear Mr.
Prince talking to Marguerite.

"This is a monotype," said Mr. Buckingham Smith, picking up a dusty
print off the window-sill. "I do one occasionally."

"Did you do this?" asked George, who had no idea what a monotype was and
dared not inquire.

"Yes. They're rather amusing to do. You just use a match or your finger
or anything."

"It's jolly good," said George. "D'you know, it reminds me a bit of
Cézanne."

Of course it was in Paris that he had heard of the great original, the
martyr and saviour of modern painting. Equally of course it was Mr.
Enwright who had inducted him into the esoteric cult of Cézanne, and
magically made him see marvels in what at the first view had struck him
as a wilful and clumsy absurdity.

"Oh!" murmured Buck, stiffening.

"What do you think of Cézanne?"

"Rule it out!" said Buck, with a warning cantankerous inflection, firmly
and almost brutally reproving this conversational delinquency of
George's. "Rule it out, young man! We don't want any of that sort of
mountebanking in England. We know what it's worth."

George was cowed. More, his faith in Cézanne was shaken. He smiled
sheepishly and was angry with himself. Then he heard Mr. Prince saying
calmly and easily to Miss Haim--the little old man could not in fact be
so nervous as he seemed:

"I suppose _you_ wouldn't come with me to the Prom?"

George was staggered and indignant. It was inconceivable, monstrous,
that those two should be on such terms as would warrant Mr. Prince's
astounding proposal. He felt that he simply could not endure them
marching off together for the evening. Her acceptance of the proposal
would be an outrage. He trembled. However, she declined, and he was
lifted from the rack.

"I must really go," she said. "Father's sure to be home by now."

"May I?" demanded Mr. Buckingham Smith, stooping over Marguerite's
portfolio of designs, and glancing round at her for permission to open
it. Already his hand was on the tape.

"On no account!" she cried. "No! No!... Mr. Cannon, please take it from
him!" She was serious.

"Oh! All right! All right!" Mr. Buckingham Smith rose to the erect
good-humouredly.

After a decent interval George took the portfolio under his arm.
Marguerite was giving thanks for hospitality. They left. George was
singularly uplifted by the fact that she never concealed from him those
designs upon which Mr. Buckingham Smith had not been allowed to gaze.
And, certain contretemps and disappointments notwithstanding, he was
impressed by the entity of the studio. It had made a desirable picture
in his mind: the romantic paraphernalia, the etchings, the canvases, the
lights and shadows, the informality, the warm odours of the lamp and of
the Pilsener, the dazzling white of the tablecloth, the quick, positive
tones of Buckingham Smith, who had always to be convincing not only
others but himself that he was a strong man whose views were
unassailable, the eyes of Buckingham Smith like black holes in his
handsome face, the stylish gestures and coarse petulance of Buckingham
Smith, the shy assurance of little old Prince. He envied the pair. Their
existence had a cloistral quality which appealed to something in him.
They were continually in the studio, morning, afternoon, evening. They
were independent. They had not to go forth to catch omnibuses and
trains, to sit in offices, to utilize the services of clerks, to take
orders, to 'Consider the idiosyncrasies of superiors. They were
self-contained, they were consecrated, and they were free. No open
competitions for them! No struggles with committees and with
contractors! And no waiting for the realization of an idea! They sat
down and worked, and the idea came at once to life, complete, without
the necessity of other human co-operation! They did not sit in front of
a painting or etching and say, as architects had too often to say in
front of their designs: "That is wasted! That will never come into
being." Architecture might be the art of arts, and indeed it was, but
there were terrible drawbacks to it....

And next he was outside in the dark with Marguerite Haim, and new,
intensified sensations thrilled him. She was very marvellous in the
dark.

Mr. Haim had not returned.

"Well!" _The thirde chapitre of the seconde tractate treteth of the
alphyns her offices and maners._

The Alphyns ought to be made and formed in manere of Iuges syttynge
in a chayer wyth a book open to fore their eyen/ And that is be
cause that some causes ben crymynell/ And some ben cyuyle as aboute
possessyons and other temporell thynges and trespaces/ And therfore
ought to be two Iuges in the royame/ one in the black for the first
cause/ And that other in whyte as for the seconde/ Theyr office is
for to counceyll the kynge/ And to make by his comandements good
lawes And to enforme alle the royame in good and vertuous maners/
And to Iuge and gyue sentence well and truly after the caas is had/
And to counceyll well and Iustely alle them that are counceyll of
hem/ wyth oute hauynge of ony eye opene to ony persone/ And to
estudye diligently in suche wyse and to ordeygne alle that/ that
ought to be kept be obseruyd be faste and stable/ So that they be
not founde corrupt for yeft for favour ne for lignage ne for enuye
variable And as touchynge the first poynt Seneque sayth in the book
of benefetes that the poure Dyogenes was more stronge than Alixandre/
For Alixandre coude not gyue fo moche as Diogenes wold reffuse.

Marcus cursus a romayn of grete renome sayth thus. That whan he had
besiegid & assayllyd them of amente And boneuentans whiche herde
that he was poure/ they toke a grete masse and wegghe of gold and
ended hit to hym prayng hym that he wold resseyue hyt and leue his
assault and siege/
And whan they cam with the present to hym they fonde hym sittynge
on the erthe and ete his mete oute of platers and disshes of tree
and of wode and dyde than her message/ to whom he answerd and sayde
that they shold goo hoome and saye to them that sente hem that
marcus cursus loueth better to be lord and wynne richesses than
richesses shold wynne hym/
For by bataylle he shall not be ouercome and vaynquysshid Nor be
gold ne siluer he shal not be corrupt ne corompid Often tymes that
thynge taketh an euyll ende that is vntrewe for gold and siluer/
And that a man is subgett vnto money may not be lord therof/ helimond
reherceth that [50] demoncene demanded of aristodone how moche he
had wonne for pletynge of a cause for his clyent/ And he answerd a
marck of gold. [51] Demoscenes answerd to hym agayn that he had
wonne as moche for to hold his pees and speke not Thus the tonges
of aduocates and men of lawe ben þyllous and domegeable/yet they
must be had yf thou wylt wynne thy cause for wyth money and yeft
thou shall wynne And oftetymes they selle as welle theyr scilence/
as theyr vtterance/ Valerius reherceth that the senatours of rome
toke counceyll to geder of two persones that one was poure/ And
that other riche and couetous/ whiche of hem bothe were moft apte
for to sende to gouerne and Iuge the contre of spayne/ and scipion
of affricque sayd that none of them bothe were good ner prouffitable
to be sente theder/ For that one hath no thynge And to that other
may nothynge suffise And despised in his saynge alle pouerte and
auerice in a Iuge/
For a couetous man hath nede of an halfpeny For he is seruant &
bonde vnto money/ and not lord therof.

But pouerte of herte & of wylle ought to be gretly alowed in a Iuge
Therfore we rede that as longe as the romayns louyd pouerte they
were lordes of all the world For many ther were that exposed alle
their goodes for the comyn wele and for that was most prouffitable
for the comynaulte that they were so poure that whan they were dede
they were buryed & brought to erthe with the comyn good/
And theyr doughters were maryed by the comandement of the senatours/
But syn that they despised pouerte/ And begonne to gadre rychesses/
And haue maad grete bataylles/ they haue vsed many synnes And so
the comyn wele perysshid/ For there is no synne but that it regneth
there/ Ther is none that is so [52] synfull as he that hath alle
the world in despyte/ For he is in pees that dredeth no man/ And
he is ryche that coueyteth no thynge/ Valere reherceth that he is
not ryche that moche hath/ But he is ryche that hath lytyll and
coueyteth no thynge/ Than thus late the Iuges take hede that they
enclyne not for loue or for hate in ony Iugement/
For theophrast saith that alle loue is blynde ther loue is/ ther
can not ryght Iugement by guyen/ For alle loue is blynde And therfore
loue is none euyn Iuge For ofte tymes loue Iugeth a fowll & lothly
woman to be fayr And so reherceth quynte curse in his first book
that the grete Godaches sayth the same to Alixandre men may saye
in this caas that nature is euyll For euery man is lasse auysed and
worse in is owne feet and cause than in an other mans/ And therfore
the Iuges ought to kepe hem well from yre in Iugement/ Tullius sayth
that an angry & yrous þsone weneth that for to doo euyll/ is good
counceyll/ and socrates saith y't .ii. thinges ben contraryous to
co[=u]ceyll/ and they ben haftynes & wrath/ and Galeren sayth in
Alexandrye/ yf yre or wrath ouercome the whan thou sholdest gyue
Iugement/ weye all thinge in y'e balance so that thy Iugement be
not enclyned by loue ne by yeste/ ne fauour of persone torne not
thy corage.

Helemond reherceth that Cambyses kynge of perse whiche was a rightwys
kynge had an vnrightwys Iuge/
whiche for enuye and euyll will had dampned a man wrongfully and
agaynst right/ wherfore he dide hym to be flain all quyk/ and made
the chayer or fiege of Iugement to be couerid wyth his skyn/ And
made his sone Iuge and to sitte in the chayer on the skyn of his
fader/ to thende that the sone shold Iuge rightwysly/ And abhorre
the Iugement & payne of his fader/ Iuges ought to punysshe the
defaultes egally And fullfille the lawe that they ordeyne/ Caton
sayth accomplisshe and do the lawe in suche wyse as thou hast
ordeyned and gyuen.

Valerius reherceth that calengius a consull had a sone whiche was
taken in adwultrye.

And therfore after the lawe at that tyme he was dampned to lose
bothe his eyen The fader wold y't the lawe shold be acc[=o]plisshid
in his sone with out fauour/ but all the cyte was meuyd herewyth
And wold not suffre hit/ but in the ende his fader was vaynquysshid
by theyr prayers/ And ordeyned that his sone shold lese oon eye
whiche was put oute And he hymself lost an other eye/ And thus was
the lawe obserued and kept/ And the prayer of the peple was
accomplisshid We rede y't ther was a counceyllour of rome that had
gyen counceill to make a statute/ that who some euer that entrid
in to the senatoire/ & a swerd gyrt aboute hym shold be ded/ Than
hit happend on a tyme that he cam from with out and entrid in to
the senatoyre & his swerd gyrt aboute hym/ wherof he took n[=o]n
heede/ and [=o]n of the senatours told hym of hit/ and whan he knewe
hit & remembrid the statute/ he drewe oute his swerd & slewe hymself
to fore them/ rather to dye than to breke the lawe/ for whos deth
all the senatours made grete sorowe/ but alas we fynde not many in
thise dayes that soo doo/ but they doo lyke as anastasius saith
that the lawes of some ben lyke vnto the nettis of spyncoppis that
take no grete bestes & fowles but lete goo & flee thurgh.

But they take flyes & gnattes & suche smale thynges/ In lyke wise
the lawes now a dayes ben not executed but vpon the poure peple/
the grete and riche breke hit & goo thurgh with all And for this
cause sourden bataylles & discordes/
and make y'e grete & riche men to take by force and strengthe
lordshippis & seignouries vpon the smale & poure peple/ And this
doon they specially that ben gentill of lignage & poure of goodes
And causeth them to robbe and reue And yet constrayned them by force
to serue them And this is no meruayll/ for they that drede not to
angre god/ ner to breke the lawe and to false hit/ Falle often tymes
by force in moche cursednes and wikkidnes/ but whan the grete peple
doo acordinge to the lawe/ and punysh the tr[=a]nsgressours sharply
The comyn peple abstayne and withdrawe hem fro dooyng of euyll/ and
chastiseth hem self by theyr example/ And the Iuges ought to entende
for to studie/ for y't yf smythes the carp[=e]ntiers y'e vignours
and other craftymen saye that it is most necessarye to studye for
the comyn prouffit And gloryfye them in their connyng and saye that
they ben prouffitable Than shold the Iuges studie and contemplaire
moche more than they in that/ that shold be for the comyn wele/
wherfore sayth seneke beleue me that they seme that they do no
thynge they doo more than they that laboure For they doo spirytuell
and also corporall werkis/ and therfore amonge Artificers ther is
no plesant reste/ But that reson of the Iuges hath maad and ordeyned
hit/ And therfore angelius in libro actiui atticatorum de socrate
sayth That socrates was on a tyme so pensyf that in an hole naturell
daye/ He helde one estate that he ne meuyd mouth ne eye ne foote
ne hand but was as he had ben ded rauyshyd.

And whan one demanded hym wherfore he was fo pensyf/ he answerd in
alle worldly thynges and labours of the fame And helde hym bourgoys and
cytezeyn of the world And valerius reherceth that carnardes a knyght was
so age wye and laborous in pensifnes of the comyn wele/ that whan he
was sette at table for to ete/ he forgate to put his hande vnto the
mete to fede hymself. And therfore his wys y't was named mellye
whom he had taken more to haue her companye & felawship than for ony other
thynge/ Fedde hym to thende that he shold not dye for honger
in his pensifnes/ Dydymus sayd to Alix-andrie we ben not deynseyns in
the world but stra[=u]gers/ ner we ben not born in the world for to dwell
and abyde allway therein/ but for to goo and passe thurgh hit/ we
haue doon noon euy dede/ but that it is worthy to be punysshid and we
to suffre payne therfore And than we may goon with opon face
and good conscience And so may we goo lightly and appertly the way that
we hope and purpose to goo This suffiseth as for the Alphyns.

[Illustration]
_The fourth chapitre of the seconde book treteth of the ordre of
cheualerye and knyghthode and of her offices and maners._

The knyght ought to be made alle armed upon an hors in suche wyse that he
haue an helme on his heed and a spere in his ryght hande/ and coueryd
wyth his sheld/ a swerde and a mace on his lyft syde/ Cladd wyth
an hawberk and plates to fore his breste/ legge harnoys on his
legges/
Spores on his heelis on his handes his gauntelettes/ his hors well
broken and taught and apte to bataylle and couerid with his armes/
whan the knyghtes ben maad they ben bayned or bathed/ that is the
signe that they shold lede a newe lyf and newe maners/ also they
wake alle the nyght in prayers and orysons vnto god that he wylle
gyue hem grace that they may gete that thynge that they may not
gete by nature/ The kynge or prynce gyrdeth a boute them a swerde
in signe/ that they shold abyde and kepe hym of whom they take theyr
dispenses and dignyte.

Also a knyght ought to be wise, liberall, trewe, stronge and full
of mercy and pite and kepar of the peple and of the lawe/ And ryght as
cheualrye passeth other in vertu in dignite in honour and in reu[=e]rece/
right so ought he to surmounte alle other in vertu/ For honour is no thing
ellis but to do reuer[=e]ce to an other þsone for y'e good &
vertuo'9 disposicion y't is in hym/ A noble knyght ought to be wyse
and preuyd to fore he be made knyght/ hit behoued hym that he had
longe tyme vsid the warre and armes/
that he may be expert and wyse for to gouerne the other For syn
that a knyght is capitayn of a batayll The lyf of them that shall
be vnder hym lyeth in his hand And therfore behoueth hym to be wyse
and well aduysed/
for some tyme arte craft and engyue is more worth than strengthe
or hardynes of a man that is not proued in Armes/ For otherwhyle
hit happeth that whan the prynce of the batayll affieth and trusteth
in his hardynes and strength And wole not vse wysedom and engyne
for to renne vpon his enemyes/ he is vaynquysshid and his peple
slayn/ Therfore saith the philosopher that no man shold chese yong
peple to be captayns & gouernours For as moche as ther is no certainte
in her wysedom.

Alexandra of macedone vaynquysshid and conquerid Egypte Iude Caldee
Affricque/ and Affirye vnto the marches of bragmans more by the
counceyll of olde men than by the strength of the yong men/ we rede
in the historye of rome y't ther was a knyght whiche had to name
malechete that was so wyse and trewe that whan the Emþour Theodosius
was dede/ he made mortall warre ayenst his broder germain whiche
was named Gildo or Guye For as moche as this said guye wold be lorde
of affricque with oute leue and wyll of the senatours.

And this sayd guye had slayn the two sones of his broder malechete/ And
dide moche torment vnto the cristen peple And afore that he shold come
in to the felde ayenst his broder Emyon/ he wente in to an yle of capayre
And ladde with hym alle the cristen men that had ben sente theder
in Exyle And made hem alle to praye wyth hym by the space of thre
dayes & thre nyghtis/ For he had grete truste in the prayers of
good folk/ & specially that noman myght counceyll ne helpe but god/
and .iii. dayes to fore he shold fight saynt Ambrofe whiche was ded
a lityl to fore apperid to hym/ and shewde hym by reuelacion the
tyme & our that he shold haue victorie/ and for as moche as he had
ben .iii. dayes and .iii nyghtes in his prayers & that he was
assewrid for to haue victorie/ He faught with .v. thousand men
ayenst his broder y't had in his companye .xxiiii. thousand men And
by goddes helpe he had victorie And whan the barbaryns y't were
comen to helpe guion fawe y'e disconfiture they fledde away/ and
guion fledd also in to affricque by shiipp/ and whan he was ther
arryued he was sone after stranglid/ These .ii. knyghtes of whom I
speke were two bredern germayns/ whiche were sent to affricque for
to defende the comyn weele/
In likewise Iudas machabe'9 Ionathas & symon his bredern put hem
self in the mercy and garde of our lord god And agayn the enemyes
of the lawe of god with lityll peple in regard of the multitude
that were agayn them/
and had also victorye/ The knights ought to ben trewe to theyr
princes/
for he that is not trewe leseth y'e name of a knight Vnto a prince
trouth is the grettest precious stone whan it is medlid with
Iuftice/
Paule the historiagraph of the lombardes reherceth that ther was a
knight named enulphus and was of the cyte of papye that was so trewe
to his kynge named patharich/ that he put hym in parill of deth for
hym/
For hit happend that Grymald Due of [53] buuentayns of whom we haue
touched to fore in the chapitre of the Quene/ Dyde do flee Godebert
whiche was kynge of the lombardes by the hande of Goribert duc of
Tauryn/ whiche was discended of the crowne of lombardis And this
grimald was maad kynge of lombardis in his place/ and after this
put & bannysshid out of the contrey this patharych whiche was broder
vnto the kynge Godebert/ that for fere and drede fledd in to hongrye/
And than this knyght Enulphus dide so moche that he gate the peas
agayn of his lord patharich agaynft the kynge grymalde/ and that
he had licence to come out of hongrye where he was all wey in paryll.
and so he cam and cryed hym mercy And the kynge grymalde gaf hym
leue to dwelle and to lyue honestly in his contree/ allway forseen
that he toke not vpon hym and named hymself kynge/ how well he was
kynge by right This doon a litill while after/ the kynge that beleuyd
euyll tonges/ thought in hymself how he myght brynge this patharich
vnto the deth And alle this knewe well the knyght enulphus/ whiche
cam the same nyght with his squyer for to visite his lord And made
his squyer to vnclothe hym & to lye in the bedde of his lord And
made his lord to ryse and clothe hym wyth the clothis of his squyer/
And in this wyse brought hym oute/
brawlynge and betynge hym as his seruant by them that were assigned
to kepe the hows of patharik y't he shold not escape Whiche supposid
that hit had ben his squyer that he entretid so outragiously/ & so
he brought hym to his hous whiche Ioyned with the walles of the
toun/ And at mydnyght whan alle men were asleepe/ he lete a doun
his maistre by a corde/ whiche toke an hors oute of the pasture And
fled vnto the cyte of Aast and ther cam to the kynge of fraunce/
And whan hit cam vnto the morn.

Hit was founden that Arnolphus and his squyer had deceyvyd the kynge
and the wacchemen/ whom the kyng comanded shold be brought to fore hym
And demanded of them the maner how he was escaped And they told hym
the trouthe/ Than the kynge demanded his counceyll of what deth they had
deseruyd to dye that had so doon and wrought agayn the wylle of
hym/
Some sayde that they shold ben honged/ and some sayd they shold ben
slayn And other sayd that they shold be beheedid.

The secrecy in itself
was delicious, but even the short experiences of the morning had shown
both of them how extremely difficult it would be for two people who were
everything to each other to behave as though they were nothing to each
other. George hoped, however, that Mr. Haim would again be absent, and
he was anticipating exquisite hours.

At the precise instant when he put his latchkey in the door the door was
pulled away from him by a hand within, and he saw a woman of about
thirty-five, plump but not stout, in a blue sateen dress, bonneted but
not gloved. She had pleasant, commonplace features and brown hair.
Several seconds elapsed before George recognized in her Mrs. Lobley, the
charwoman of No. 8, and when he did so he was a little surprised at her
presentableness. He had met her very seldom in the house. He was always
late for breakfast, and his breakfast was always waiting for him. On
Sundays he was generally out. If he did catch sight of her, she was
invariably in a rough apron and as a rule on her knees. Their
acquaintance had scarcely progressed far enough for him to call her
'Mrs. Lob' with any confidence. He had never seen her at night, though
upon occasion he had heard her below in the basement, and for him she
was associated with mysterious nocturnal goings and comings by the
basement door. That she should be using the front door was as startling
as that she should be so nobly attired in blue sateen.

"Good evening--Mr. Cannon," she said, in her timid voice, too thin for
her body. He noticed that she was perturbed. Hitherto she had always
addressed him as 'sir.'

"Excuse me," she said, and with an apologetic air she slipped past him
and departed out of the house.

Mr. Haim was visible just within the doorway of the sitting-room, and
behind him the table with the tea-things still on it. George had felt
considerably self-conscious in Mr. Haim's presence at the office; and he
was so preoccupied by his own secret mighty affair that his first
suspicion connected the strange apparition of a new Mrs. Lobley and the
peculiar look on Mr. Haim's face with some disagreeable premature and
dramatic explosion of the secret mighty affair. His thoughts, though
absurd, ran thus because they could not run in any other way.

"Ah, Mr. Cannon!" said Mr. Haim queerly. "You're in early to-night."

"A bit earlier," George admitted, with caution. "Have to read, you
know." He was using the word 'read' in the examination sense.

"If you could spare me a minute," smiled Mr. Haim

"Certainly."

"Have a cigarette," said Mr. Haim, as soon as George had deposited his
hat and come into the room. This quite unprecedented offer reassured
George, who in spite of reason had continued to fear that the landlord
had something on his mind about his daughter and his lodger. Mr. Haim
presented his well-known worn cigarette-case, and then with precise and
calm gestures carefully shut the door.

"The fact is," said he, "I wanted to tell you something. I told Mr.
Enwright this afternoon, as I thought was proper, and it seems to me
that you are the next person who ought to be informed."

"Oh yes?"

"I am going to be married."

"The deuce you are!"

The light words had scarcely escaped from young George before he
perceived that his tone was a mistake, and that Mr. Haim was in a state
of considerable emotion, which would have to be treated very carefully.
And George too now suddenly partook of the emotion. He felt himself to
be astonished and even shaken by Mr. Haim's news. The atmosphere of the
interview changed in an instant. Mr. Haim moved silently on slippered
feet to the mantelpiece, out of the circle of lamplight, and dropped
some ash into the empty fire-place.

"I congratulate you," said George.

"Thank you!" said Mr. Haim brightly, seizing gratefully on the fustian
phrase, eager to hall-mark it as genuine and put it among his treasures.
Without doubt he was flattered. "Yes," he proceeded, as it were
reflectively, "I have asked Mrs. Lobley to be my wife, and she has done
me the honour to consent." He had the air of having invented the words
specially to indicate that Mrs. Lobley was descending from a throne in
order to espouse him. It could not have occurred to him that they had
ever been used before and that the formula was classic. He smiled again,
and went on: "Of course I've known and admired Mrs. Lobley for a long
time. What we should have done without her valuable help in this house I
don't like to think. I really don't."

"'Her help in this house,'" thought the ruthless George, behind
cigarette smoke. "Why doesn't he say right out she's the charwoman? If I
was marrying a charwoman, I should say I was marrying a charwoman." And
then he had a misgiving: "Should I? I wonder whether I should." And he
remembered that ultimately the charwoman was going to be his own
mother-in-law. He was aware of a serious qualm.

"Mrs. Lobley has had an uphill fight since her first husband's death,"
said Mr. Haim. "He was an insurance agent--the Prudential. She's come
out of it splendidly. She's always kept up her little home, though it
was only two rooms, and she'll only leave it because I can offer her a
better one. I have always admired her, and I'm sure the more you know
her the more you'll like her. She's a woman in a thousand, Mr. Cannon."

"I expect she is," George agreed feebly. He could not think of anything
to say.

"And I'm thankful I _can_ offer her a better home. I don't mind telling
you now that at one time I began to fear I shouldn't have a home. I've
had my ambitions, Mr. Cannon. I was meant for a quantity surveyor. I was
one--you may say. But it was not to be. I came down in the world, but I
kept my head above water. And then in the end, with a little money I had
I bought this house. £575. It needed some negotiation. Ground-rent £10
per annum, and seventy years to run. You see, all along I had had the
idea of building a studio in the garden. I was one of the first to see
the commercial possibilities of studios in Chelsea. But of course I know
Chelsea. I made the drawings for the studio myself. Mr. Enwright kindly
suggested a few improvements. With all my experience I was in a position
to get it put up as cheaply as possible. You'd be surprised at the
number of people in the building line anxious to oblige me. It cost
under £300. I had to borrow most of it. But I've paid it off. What's the
consequence? The consequence is that the rent of the studio and the top
rooms brings me in over eight per cent on all I spent on the house and
the studio together. And I'm living rent free myself."

"Jolly good!"

"Yes.... If I'd had capital, Mr. Cannon, I could have made thousands out
of studios. Thousands. I fancy I've the gift. But I've never had the
capital. And that's all there is to it." He smacked his lips, and leaned
back against the mantelpiece. "You may tell me I've realized my
ambitions. Not all of them, Mr. Cannon. Not all of them. If I'd had
money I should have had leisure, and I should have improved myself.
Reading, I mean. Study. Literature. Music. Painting. History of
architecture. All that sort of thing. I've got the taste for it. I know
I've got the taste for it. But what could I do? I gave it up. You'll
never know how lucky you are, Mr. Cannon. I gave it up. However, I've
nothing to be ashamed of. At any rate I hope not."

George nodded appreciatively. He was touched. He was even impressed. He
admitted the _naiveté_ of the ageing man, his vanity, his
sentimentality. But he saw himself to be in the presence of an
achievement. And though the crown of Mr. Haim's achievement was to marry
a charwoman, still the achievement impressed. And the shabby man with
the lined, common face was looking back at the whole of his life--there
was something positively formidable in that alone. He was at the end;
George was at the beginning, and George felt callow and deferential. The
sensation of callowness at once heightened his resolve to succeed. All
George's sensations seemed mysteriously to transform themselves into
food for this great resolve.

"And what does Miss Haim say to all this?" he asked, rather timidly and
wildly. It was a venturesome remark; it might well have been called an
impertinence; but the mage of Marguerite was involved in all the
workings of his mind, and it would not be denied expression.

Mr. Haim lifted his back from the mantelpiece sharply. Then he
hesitated, moving forward a little.

"Mr. Cannon," he said, "it's curious you should ask that." His voice
trembled, and at the vibration George was suddenly apprehensive. Mr.
Haim had soon recovered from his original emotion, but now he seemed to
be in danger of losing control of himself.

George nervously cleared his throat and apologized.

"I didn't mean----"

"I'd better tell you," Mr. Haim interrupted him, rather loudly. "We've
just had a terrible scene with my daughter, a terrible scene!" He seldom
referred to Marguerite by her Christian name, "Mr. Cannon, I had hoped
to get through my life without a scandal, and especially an open
scandal. But it seems as if I shouldn't--if I know my daughter! It was
not my intention to say anything. Far from it. Outsiders ought not to be
troubled.... I--I like you, Mr. Cannon. She left us a few minutes ago
And as she didn't put her hat on she must be either at the studio or at
Agg's...."

"She went out of the house?" George questioned awkwardly.

Mr. Haim nodded, and then without warning he dropped like an inert lump
on to a chair and let his head fall on to his hand.

George was frightened as well as mystified. The spectacle of the old
man--at one moment boasting ingenuously of his career, and at the next
almost hysterical with woe--roused his pity in a very disconcerting
manner, and from his sight the Lucas & Enwright factotum vanished
utterly, and was supplanted by a tragic human being. But he had no idea
how to handle the unexampled situation with dignity; he realized
painfully his own lack of experience, and his over-mastering impulse was
to get away while it was still possible to get away. Moreover, he
desired intensely to see and hear Marguerite.

"Perhaps I had better find out where she is," he absurdly suggested, and
departed from the room feeling like a criminal reprieved.

The old man did not stir.


II


"Can I come in?" said George, hatless, pushing open the door of the
studio, which was ajar.

There were people in the bright and rather chilly studio, and none of
them moved until the figure arriving out of the darkness was identified.
Mr. Prince, who in the far corner was apparently cleaning or adjusting
his press, then came forward with a quiet, shy, urbane welcome.
Marguerite herself stood nearly under the central lamp, talking to Agg,
who was seated. The somewhat celebrated Agg immediately rose and said in
her somewhat deep voice to Marguerite:

"I must go."

Agg was the eldest daughter of the Agg family, a broad-minded and
turbulent tribe who acknowledged the nominal headship of a hard-working
and successful barrister. She was a painter, and lived and slept in
semi-independence in a studio of her own in Manresa Road, but maintained
close and constant relations with the rest of the tribe. In shape and
proportions fairly tall and fairly thin, she counted in shops among the
stock-sizes; but otherwise she was entitled to call herself unusual. She
kept her hair about as short as the hair of a boy who has postponed
going to the barber's for a month after the proper time, and she
incompletely covered the hair with the smallest possible hat. Her coat
was long and straight and her skirt short. Her boots were high, reaching
well up the calf, but they had high heels and were laced in some
hundreds of holes. She carried a cane in a neatly gloved hand. She was
twenty-seven. In style Marguerite and Agg made a great contrast with one
another. Each was fully aware of the contrast, and liked it.

"Good evening, Mr. Cannon," said Agg firmly, not shaking hands.

George had met her once in the way of small-talk at her father's house.
Having yet to learn the important truth that it takes all sorts to make
a world, he did not like her and wondered why she existed. He could
understand Agg being fond of Marguerite, but he could not understand
Marguerite being fond of Agg; and the friendship between these two, now
that he actually for the first time saw it in being, irked him.

"Is anything the matter?... Have you seen father?" asked Marguerite in a
serious, calm tone, turning to him. Like George, she had run into the
studio without putting on any street attire.

George perceived that there was no secret in the studio as to the crisis
in the Haim family. Clearly the topic had been under discussion. Prince
as well as Agg was privy to it. He did not quite like that. He was
vaguely jealous of both Prince and Agg. Indeed he was startled to find
that Marguerite could confide such a matter to Prince--at any rate
without consulting himself. While not definitely formulating the claim
in his own mind, he had somehow expected of Marguerite that until she
met him she would have existed absolutely sole, without any sentimental
connexions of any sort, in abeyance, waiting for his miraculous advent.
He was glad that Mr. Buckingham Smith was not of the conclave; he felt
that he could not have tolerated Mr. Buckingham Smith.

"Yes, I've seen him," George answered.

"Did he tell you?"

"Yes."

Mr. Prince, after a little hovering, retired to his press, and a wheel
could be heard creaking.

"What did he tell you?"

"He told me about--the marriage.... And I gathered there'd been a bit of
a scene."

"Nothing else?"

"No."

Agg then interjected, fixing her blue eyes on George:

"Marguerite is coming to live with me in my studio."

And her challenging gaze met George's.

"Oh!" George could not suppress his pained inquietude at this decision
having been made without his knowledge. Both girls misapprehended his
feeling. "That's it, is it?"

"Well," said Agg, "what can Mr. Haim expect? Here Marguerite's been
paying this woman two shillings a day and her food, and letting her take
a parcel home at nights. And then all of a sudden she comes dressed up
for tea, and sits down, and Mr. Haim says she's his future wife. What
_does_ he expect? Does he expect Marguerite to kiss her and call her
mamma? The situation's impossible."

"But you can't stop people from falling in love, Agg, you know. It's not
a crime," said Mr. Prince in his weak voice surprisingly from the press.

"I know it's not a crime," said Agg sharply. "And nobody wants to stop
people from falling in love. If Mr. Haim chooses to go mad about a
charwoman, when his wife, and such a wife, 's been dead barely three
years, that's his concern. It's true the lady isn't much more than half
his age, and that the whole business would be screamingly funny if it
wasn't disgusting; but still he's a free agent. And Marguerite's a free
agent too, I hope. Of course he's thunder-struck to discover that
Marguerite _is_ a free agent. He would be!"

"He certainly is in a state," said George, with an uneasy short laugh.

Agg continued:

"And why is he in a state? Because Marguerite says she shall leave the
house? Not a bit. Only because of what he thinks is the scandal of her
leaving. Mr. Haim is a respectable man. He's simply all respectability.
Respectability's his god--Father, Son, and Holy Ghost. Always has been.
He'd sacrifice everything to respectability--except the lovely Lobley.
It's not respectable in a respectable family for a girl to leave home on
account of her stepmother. And so he's in a state, if you please!... If
he wanted to carry on with Mrs. Lobley, let him carry on with her. But
no! That's not respectable. He's just got to marry her!" Agg sneered.

George was startled, perhaps excusably, at the monstrous doctrine
implied in Agg's remarks. He had thought himself a man of the world,
experienced, unshockable. But he blenched, and all his presence of mind
was needed to preserve a casual, cool demeanour. The worst of the trial
was Marguerite's tranquil acceptance of the attitude of her friend. She
glanced at Agg in silent, admiring approval. He surmised that until that
moment he had been perfectly ignorant of what girls really were.

"I see," said George courageously. And then, strangely, he began to
admire too. And he pulled himself together.

"I think I shall leave to-morrow," Marguerite announced. "Morning. It
will be much better. She can look after him. I don't see that I owe any
duty ..."

"Yes, you do, dear," Agg corrected her impressively. "You owe a duty to
your mother--to her memory. That's the duty you owe. I'll come round for
you to-morrow myself in a four-wheeler--let me see, about eleven."

George hated the sound of the word 'duty.'

"Thank you, dear," Marguerite murmured, and the girls shook hands; they
did not kiss.

"Bye-bye, Princey."

"Bye-bye, Agg."

"Good night, Mr. Cannon."

Agg departed, slightly banging the door.

"I think I'll go back home now," said Marguerite, in a sweet, firm tone.
"Had they gone out?"

"Who? Your father and What's-her-name? She's gone, but he hasn't. If you
don't want to meet him to-night again, hadn't you better----"

"Oh! If she's gone, he'll be gone too by this time. Trust him!"

Mr. Prince approached them, urging Marguerite soothingly to stay as long
as she liked. She shook her head, and pressed his hand affectionately.


III


When George and Marguerite re-entered No. 8 by the front door, Mr. Haim
was still sitting overcome at the tea-table. They both had sight of him
through the open door of the parlour. Marguerite was obviously disturbed
to see him there, but she went straight into the room. George moved into
the darkness of his own room. He heard the voices of the other two.

"Then you mean to go?" Haim asked accusingly.

Marguerite answered in a calm, good-humoured, sweet tone:

"Of course, if you mean to marry Mrs. Lobley."

"Marry Mrs. Lobley! Of course I shall marry her!" Haim's voice rose.
"What right have you to settle where I shall marry and where I shan't?"

"I've fixed everything up with Celia Agg," said Marguerite very quietly.

"You've soon arranged it!"

No reply from Marguerite. The old man spoke again:

"You've no right--It'll be an open scandal."

Then a silence. George now thought impatiently that a great fuss was
being made about a trifle, and that a matter much more important
deserved attention. His ear caught a violent movement. The old man came
out of the parlour, and, instead of taking his hat and rushing off to
find the enchantress, he walked slowly and heavily upstairs, preceded by
his immense shadow thrown from the hall-lamp. He disappeared round the
corner of the stairs. George, under the influence of the apparition, was
forced to modify his view that all the fuss was over a trifle. He
tiptoed into the parlour. Marguerite was standing at the table. As soon
as George came in she began to gather the tea-things together on the
tray.

"I _say_!" whispered George.

Marguerite's bent, tranquil face had a pleasant look as she handled the
crockery.

"I shall get him a nice breakfast to-morrow," she said, also in a
whisper. "And as soon as he's gone to the office I shall pack. It won't
take me long, really."

"But won't Mrs. Lobley be here?"

"What if she is? I've nothing against Mrs. Lobley. Nor, as far as that
goes, against poor father either--you see what I mean."

"He told me you'd had a terrible scene. That's what he said'--a terrible
scene."

"It depends what you call a scene," she said smoothly. "I was rather
upset just at first--who wouldn't be?--but ..." She stopped, listening,
with a glance at the ceiling. There was not the slightest sound
overhead. "I wonder what he's doing?"

She picked up the tray.

"I'll carry that," said George.

"No! It's all right. I'm used to it. You might bring me the tablecloth.
But you won't drop the crumbs out of it, will you?"

He followed her with the bunched-up tablecloth down the dangerous
basement steps into the kitchen. She passed straight into the little
scullery, where the tray with its contents was habitually left for the
attention of Mrs. Lobley the next morning. When she turned again, he
halted her, as it were, at the entrance from the scullery with a
question.

"Shall you be all right?"

"With Agg?"

"Yes."

"How do you mean--'all right'?"

"Well, for money, and so on."

"Oh yes!" She spoke lightly and surely, with a faint confident smile.

"I was thinking as they'd cut down your prices----"

"I shall have heaps. Agg and I--why, we can live splendidly for next to
nothing. You'll see."

He was rebuffed. He felt jealous of both Agg and Prince, but especially
of Prince. It still seemed outrageous to him that Prince should have
been taken into her confidence. Prince had known of the affair before
himself. He was more than jealous; he had a greater grievance.
Marguerite appeared to have forgotten all about love, all about the
mighty event of their betrothal. She appeared to have put it away, as
casually as she had put away the tray. Yet ought not the event to count
supreme over everything else--over no matter what? He was desolate and
unhappy.

"Did you tell Agg?" he asked.

"What about?"

"Our being engaged--and so on."

She started towards him.

"Dearest!" she protested, not in the least irritated or querulous, but
kindly, affectionately. "Without asking you first? Didn't we agree we
wouldn't say anything to anybody? But we shall have to think about
telling Agg."

He met her and suddenly seized her. They kissed, and she shut her eyes.
He was ecstatically happy.

"Oh!" she murmured in his embrace. "I'm so glad I've got you."

And she opened her eyes and tears fell from them. She cried quietly,
without excitement and without shame. She cried with absolute
naturalness. Her tears filled him with profound delight. And in the
exquisite subterranean intimacy of the kitchen, he saw with his eyes and
felt with his arms how beautiful she was. Her face, seen close, was
incredibly soft and touching. Her nose was the most wonderful nose ever
witnessed. He gloated upon her perfection. For, literally, to him she
was perfect. With what dignity and with what a sense of justice she had
behaved, in the studio, in the parlour, and here. He was gloriously
reassured as he realized how in their joint future he would be able to
rely upon her fairness, her conscientiousness, her mere pleasantness
which nothing could disturb. Throughout the ordeal of the evening she
had not once been ruffled. She had not said an unkind word, nor given an
unkind gesture, nor exhibited the least trace of resentment. Then, she
had taste, and she was talented. But perhaps the greatest quality of all
was her adorable beauty and charm. And yet no! The final attraction was
that she trusted him, depended on him, cried in his embrace.... He
loosed her with reluctance, and she deliciously wiped her eyes on his
handkerchief, and he took her again.

"I suppose I must leave here too, now," he said.

"Oh, George!" she exclaimed. "You mustn't! Why should you? I don't want
you to."

"Don't you? Why?"

"Oh! I don't! Truly. You'll be just as well looked after as if I was
here. I do hope you'll stay."

That settled it. And Manresa Road was not far off.

She sat on the table and leaned against him a long time. Then she said
she must go upstairs to her room--she had so much to do. He could not
forbid, because she was irresistible. She extinguished the kitchen-lamp,
and, side by side, they groped up the stairs to the first floor. The cat
nonchalantly passed them in the hall.

"Put the lights out here, will you, when you go to bed?" she whispered.
He felt flattered.

She offered her face.... The lovely thing slipped away upstairs with
unimaginable, ravishing grace. She vanished. There was silence. After a
moment George could hear the clock ticking in the kitchen below. He
stood motionless, amid the dizzying memories of her glance, her
gestures, the softness of her body. What had happened to him was past
belief. He completely forgot the existence of the old man in love.


CHAPTER IV

THE LUNCHEON

I


George, having had breakfast in bed, opened his door for the second time
that morning, and duly found on the mat the can of hot water (covered
with a bit of old blanket) and the can of cold water which comprised the
material for his bath. There was no sound in the house. The new spouse
might be upstairs or she might be downstairs--he could not tell; but the
cans proved that she was immanent and regardful; indeed, she never
forgot anything. And George's second state at No. 8 was physically even
better than his first. In the transition through autumn from summer to
winter--a transition which, according to the experience of tens of
thousands of London lodgers, is capable of turning comparative comfort
into absolute discomfort--Mrs. Haim had behaved with benevolence and
ingenuity. For example, the bedroom fire, laid overnight, was now
burning up well from the mere touch of the lodger's own match. Such
things are apt to count, and they counted with George.

As for Mr. Haim, George knew that he was still in bed, because, since
his marriage, Mr. Haim had made a practice of staying in bed on Sunday
mornings. The scheme was his wife's; she regarded it as his duty to
himself to exercise this grand male privilege of staying in bed; to do
so gave him majesty, magnificence, and was a sign of authority. A copy
of _The Referee_, fresh as fruit new-dropped from the bough, lay in the
hall at the front door. Mr. Haim had read _The Referee_ since _The
Referee_ was. He began his perusal with the feature known as "Mustard
and Cress," which not only amused him greatly, but convinced him that
his own ideas on affairs were really very sagacious. His chief and most
serious admiration, however was kept for "Our Hand-Book." "It's my
Bible," he had once remarked, "and I'm not ashamed to say it. And there
are scores and scores of men who'd say the same." Church bells could not
be heard at No. 8. _The Referee_ lying in the hall was the gracious sign
of Sabbath morning. Presently Mrs. Haim would carry it upstairs,
respectfully. For her it was simply and unanalysably _The Referee_. She
did not dream of looking into it. Mr. Haim did not expect her to look
into it. Her mission was to solace and to charm, his alone to supply the
intellectual basis upon which their existence reposed. George's nose
caught the ascending beautiful odour of bacon; he picked up his cans and
disappeared.

When he was dressed, he brought forward the grindstone to the fire, and
conscientiously put his nose to it, without even lighting a cigarette.
It had been agreed between himself and Marguerite that there should be
no more cigarettes until after lunch. It had also been agreed that he
should put his nose to the grindstone that Sunday morning, and that she
should do the same away in Manresa Road. George's grindstone happened to
be Miers and Crosskey's _The Soil in Relation to Health_. He was
preparing for his Final Examination. In addition to the vast
imperial subject of Design, the Final comprised four other
subjects--Construction, Hygiene, Properties and Uses of Building
Materials, and Ordinary Practice of Architecture. George was now busy
with one branch of the second of these subjects. Perhaps he was not
following precisely the order of tactics prescribed by the most wily
tacticians, for as usual he had his own ideas and they were arbitrary;
but he was veritably and visibly engaged in the slow but exciting
process of becoming a great architect. And he knew and felt that he was.
And the disordered bed, and the untransparent bath-water, and the
soap-tin by the side of the bath, and the breakfast-tray on a chair,
were as much a part of the inspiring spectacle as himself tense and
especially dandiacal in the midst.

Nevertheless appearances deceived. On a table were the thirteen folio
and quarto glorious illustrated volumes of Ongania's _Basilica di San
Marco_, which Mr. Enwright had obtained for him on loan, and which had
come down to No. 8 in a big box by Carter Paterson van. And while George
sat quite still with his eyes and his volition centred fiercely on Miers
and Crosskey, his brain would keep making excursions across the room to
the Church of St. Mark at Venice. He brought it back again and again
with a jerk but he could not retain it in place. The minutes passed; the
quarters passed, until an hour and a half had gone. Then he closed Miers
and Crosskey. He had sworn to study Miers and Crosskey for an hour and a
half. He had fought hard to do so, and nobody could say that he had not
done so. He was aware, however, that the fight had not been wholly
successful; he had not won it; on the other hand neither had he lost it.
Honour was saved, and he could still sincerely assert that in regard to
the Final Examination he had got time fiercely by the forelock. He rose
and strolled over to the _Basilica di San Marco_, and opened one or two
of those formidable and enchanting volumes. Then he produced a
cigarette, and struck a match, and he was about to light the cigarette,
when squinting down at it he suddenly wondered: "Now how the deuce did
that cigarette come into my mouth?" He replaced the cigarette in his
case, and in a moment he had left the house.

He was invited to Mrs. John Orgreave's new abode at Bedford Park for
lunch. In the early part of the year, Mrs. John had inherited
money--again, and the result had been an increase in the spaciousness of
her existence. George had not expected to see the new house, for he had
determined to have nothing more to do with Mrs. John. He was, it is to
be feared, rather touchy. He and Mrs. John had not openly quarrelled,
but in their hearts they had quarrelled. George had for some time
objected to her attitude towards him as a boarder. She would hint that,
as she assuredly had no need of boarders, she was conferring a favour on
him by boarding him. It was of course true, but George considered that
her references to the fact were offensive. He did not understand and
make allowances for Adela. Moreover, he thought that a woman who had
been through the Divorce Court ought to be modest in demeanour towards
people who had not been through the Divorce Court. Further, Adela
resented his frequent lateness for meals. And she had said, with an
uncompromising glance: "I hope you'll turn over a new leaf when we get
into the new house." And he had replied, with an uncompromising glance:
"Perhaps _I_ shan't get into the new house." Nothing else. But that
ended it. After that both felt that mutual detestation had set in. John
Orgreave was not implicated in the discreet rupture. Possibly he knew of
it; possibly he didn't; he was not one to look for trouble, and he
accepted the theory that it was part of George's vital scheme to inhabit
Chelsea. And then Adela, all fluffiness and winsomeness, had called, in
the previous week, at Russell Square and behaved like a woman whose sole
aim in life is to please and cosset men of genius. "I shall be
dreadfully hurt if you don't come to one of my Sunday lunches, George!"
she had said. And also: "We _miss_ you, you know," and had put her head
on one side.

Marguerite had thoroughly approved his acceptance of the invitation. She
thought that he 'ought' to accept. He had promised, as she had an urgent
design to do, not to arrive at the studio before 8 p.m., and he had
received a note from her that morning to insist on the hour.


II


The roads were covered with a very even, very thin coating of mud; it
was as though a corps of highly skilled house-painters had laid on the
mud, and just vanished. The pavements had a kind of yellowish-brown
varnish. Each of the few trees that could be seen--and there were a
few--carried about six surviving leaves. The sky was of a blue-black
with golden rents and gleams that travelled steadily eastwards. I crept
to Bed, chilled and awe-stricken; yet, after cowering awhile, and
saying our Prayers, we both fell asleep.

The first Sounde this Morning was of Weeping and Wayling. Mother had beene
scared by the Night-warning, and wearied Father to have us alle
into the Countrie. He thought the Danger not yet imminent, the
Expense considerable, and the Outcry that of some crazy Fanatick;
ne'erthelesse, consented to employ _Ellwood_ to look us out some country
Lodgings; having noe Mind to live upon my Uncle at _Ipswich_.

_Mary_, strange to say, had heard noe Noise; nor had the Maids; but
Servants always sleep heavily.

Some of the Pig having beene sett aside for my Uncle, and Mother fancying
it for her Breakfast, was much putt out, on going into the Larder,
to find it gone. _Betty_, of course, sayd it was the Cat. Mother made
Answer, she never knew a Cat partiall to cold Pig; and the Door having
been latched, was suspicious of a Puss in Boots.

_Betty_ cries--"Plague take the Cat!"
Mother rejoyns--"If the Plague does take him, I shall certainly have him
hanged."
"Then we shall be overrun with Rats," says _Betty_.

"I shall buy Ratsbane for them," says Mother; and soe into the Parlour,
where Father, having hearde the whole Dialogue, had been greatlie
amused.

At Twilight, she went to look at the Pantry Fastenings herselfe,
but, suddenlie hearing a dolorous Voyce either within or immediately
without, cry, "Oh! Woe, Woe!" she naturallie drew back. However,
being a Woman of much Spiritt, she instantlie recovered herselfe, and
went forward; but no one was in the Pantry. The Occurrence, therefore,
made the more Impression; and she came up somewhat scared, and asked if
we had heard it.

"My Dear," says Father, "you awoke me in the midst of a very
interesting Colloquy between _Sir Thomas More_ and _Erasmus_.

However, I think a Dog barked, or rather howled, just now. Are you sure
the words were not 'Bow, wow, wow?'"

Another Night-larum; but onlie from Father, who wanted me to write for
him,--a Task he has much intromitted of late. Mother was hugelie annoyed
at it, and sayd,--"My Dear, I am persuaded that if you would not persist
in going to Bed soe earlie, you woulde not awake at these untimelie
Hours."
"That is very well for you to say," returned he, "who can sew and spin
the whole Evening through; but I, whose long entire Day is Night, grow
soe tired of it by nine o'clock, that I am fit for Nothing but Bed."

"Well," says she, "I often find that brushing my Hair wakes me up when
I am drowsy. I will brush yours To-morrow Evening, and see if we cannot
keep you up a little later, and provide sounder Rest for you when you
do turn in."
Soe, this Evening, she casts her Apron over his Shoulders, and commences
combing his Hair, chatting of this and that, to keep him in good
Humour.

"What beautiful Hair this is of yours, my Dear!" says she; "soe fine,
long, and soft! scarcelie a Silver Thread in it. I warrant there's
manie a young Gallant at Court would be proud of such."
"Girls, put your Scissars out of your Mother's Way," says Father; "she's
a perfect _Dalilah_, and will whip off Half my Curls before I
can count Three, unless you look after her. And I," he adds, with a
Sigh, "am, in one Sort, a _Samson_."
"I'm sure _Dalilah_ never treated _Samson's_ old Coat with such Respect,"
says Mother, finishing her Task, resuming her Apron, and kissing him.

"Soe now, keep your Eyes open--I mean, keep awake, till I bring
you a Gossip's Bowl."
When she was gone, Father continued sitting bolt upright, _his Eyes_, as
she sayd (his beautifull Eyes!), open and wakefull, and his Countenance
composed, yet grave, as if his Thoughts were at least as far off as
_Tangrolipix_ the _Turk_. All at once, he says,
"_Deb_, are my Sleeves white at the Elbow?"

"No, Father."
"Or am I shiny about the Shoulders?"
"No, Father."
"Why, then," cries he, gaily, this Coat can't be very old, however long
I may have worn it. I'll rub on in it still; and your Mother and you
will have the more Money for copper-coloured Clokes. But don't, at any
Time, let your Father get shabby, Children. I would never be threadbare
nor unclean. Let my Habitt be neat and spotless, my Bands well washed
and uncrumpled, as becometh a Gentleman. As for my Sword in the
Corner, your Mother may send that after my Medal as soon as she
will.

The _Cid_ parted with his _Tizona_ in his Life-time; soe a peaceable Man,
whose Eyes, like the Prophet _Abijah's_, are set, may well doe the same."

_May 12, 1665_.

Yesterday being the _Lord's Day_, Mother was hugely scared during Morning
Service, by seeing an old Lady put her Kerchief to her Nose, look hither
and thither, and, finally, walk out of Church. One whispered another,
"A Plague-Smell, perchance." "No Doubt on't;" and soe, one after
another left, as, at length, did Mother, who declared she beganne to feel
herself ill. On the Cloth being drawn after Dinner, she made a serious
Attack on my Father, upon the Subject of Country Lodgings, which he
stoutly resisted at first, saying,
"If, Wife and Daughters, either the Danger were so immediate, or the
Escape from it so facile as to justify these womanish Clamours, Reason
would that I should listen to you. But, since that the Lord is about our
Bed, and about our Path, in the Capital no less than in the Country, and
knoweth them that are his, and hideth them under the Shadowe of his
Wings--and since that, if the Fiat be indeed issued agaynst us, no
Stronghold, though guarded with triple Walls of Circumvallation, like
_Ecbatana_, nor pastoral Valley, that might inspire _Theocritus_ with a
new Idyl, can hide us, either by its Strength or its Obscurity,
from the Arrow of the Destroying Angel; ye, therefore, seeing these
Things cannot be spoken agaynst, ought to be quiet, and do Nothing
rashly.

Wherefore, I pray you, Wife and Daughters, get you to your Knees, before
Him who alone can deliver you from these Terrors; and having cast
your Burthen upon Him, eat your Bread in Peacefulness and Cheerfulness
of Heart."
However, we really are preparing for Country Quarters, for young _Ellwood_
hath this Morning brought us Note of a rustick Abode near his
Friends, the _Penningtons_, at _Chalfont_, in _Bucks_, the Charges
of which suit my Father's limited Means; and we hope to enter on
it by the End of the Week.

_Ellwood's_ Head seems full of _Guli Springett_, the Daughter of
Master _Pennington's_ Wife by her first Husband.

If Half he says of her be true, I shall like to see the young Lady.

We part with one Maid, and take the other. _Betty_ was very forward
to be left in Charge; and protest herself willing to abide any Risk for
the Sake of the Family; more by Token she thoughte there was no Risk at
alle, having boughte a sovereign Charm of Mother _Shipton_.

Howbeit, on inducing her, much agaynst her Will, to open it, Nought
was founde within but a wretched little Print of a Ship, with the
Words, scrawled beneath it, "By Virtue of the above Sign."

Father called her a silly Baggage, and sayd, he was glad, at any Rate,
there was no Profanity in it; but, in Spite of _Betty_, and _Polly_,
and Mother too, he is resolved to leave the House under the
sole Charge of Nurse _Jellycott_. Indeed, there Will probably be
more rather than less Work to do at _Chalfont_; but Mother means to get
a little Boy, such as will be glad to come for Threepence a-Week, to
fetch the Milk, post the Letters, get Flour from the Mill and Barm from
the Brewhouse, carry Pies to the Oven, clean Boots and Shoes, bring
in Wood, sweep up the Garden, roll the Grass, turn the Spit, draw the
Water, lift Boxes and heavy Weights, chase away Beggars and infectious
Persons, and any little odd Matter of the Kind.

Mother has drowned the Cats, and poisoned the Rats. The latter have
revenged 'emselves by dying behind the Wainscot, which makes the
lower Part of the House soe unbearable, 'speciallie to Father, that
we are impatient to be off.

Mother, intending to turn _Chalfont_ into a besieged Garrison, is
laying in Stock of Sope, Candles, Cheese, Butter, Salt, Sugar,
Raisins, Pease, and Bacon; besides Resin, Sulphur, and Benjamin,
agaynst the Infection; and Pill Ruff, and _Venice_ Treacle, in Case
it comes.

As to Father, his Thoughts naturallie run more on Food for the Mind;
soe he hath layd in goodlie Store of Pens, Paper, and Ink, and
sett me to pack his Books.

At first, he sayd he should onlie require a few, and good ones.

These were all of the biggest; and three or four Folios broke out the
Bottom of the Box.

So then Mother sayd the onlie Way was to cord 'em up in Sacking;
which greatlie relaxed the Bounds of his Self-denial, and ended in
his having a Load packed that would break a Horse's Back.

Alsoe, hath had his Organ taken to Pieces; but as it must goe in two
severall Loads, and we cannot get a bigger Wagon,--everie Cart and
Carriage, large or little, being on such hard Duty in these Times,--I'm
to be left behind till the Wagon returns, and till I've finished
cataloguing the Books; after which _Ned Phillips_ hath promised to
take me down on a Pillion.

Nurse _Jellycott_, being sent for from _Wapping_, looked in this
Forenoon, for Father's Commands.

Such Years have passed since we lost Sight of her, that I remembered not
her Face in the least, but had an instant Recollection of her chearfulle,
gentle Voyce. Spite of her Steeple Hat, and short scarlet Cloke,
which gave her an antiquated Ayr, her cleare hazel Eyes and smooth-parted
Silver Locks gave her an engaging Appearance. The World having gone
ill with her, she thankfullie takes Charge of the Premises; and though
her Eyes filled with Tears, 'twas with looking at Father. He, for his
Part, spake most kindlie, and gave her his Hand, which she
kissed.

They are all off.

Never was House in such a Pickle!

The Carpets rolled up, but the Boards beneath 'em unswept, and black
with Dirt; as Nurse gladlie undertook everie Office of that Kind,
and sayd 'twould help to amuse her when we were away.

But she has tidied up the little Chamber over the House-door she
means to occupy, and sett on the Mantell a Beau-pot of fresh Flowers
she brought with her. The whole House smells of aromatick Herbs, we
have burnt soe many of late for Fumigation; and, though we fear to
open the Window, yet, being on the shady Side, we doe not feel the
Heat much.

Yesterday, while in the Thick of packing, and Nobody being with
Father but me, a Messenger arrived, with a few Lines, writ privily by
a Friend of poor _Ellwood_, saying he was in _Aylesbury_ Gaol, not for
Debt, but for his Opinions, and praying Father to send him twenty
or thirty Shillings for immediate Necessaries.

Mother having gone to my Lord Mayor for Passports, and Father having long
given up to her his Purse, . . .
(for us Girls, we rarelie have a Crown,) he was in a Strait, and at
length said,
"This poor young Fellow must not be denied. . . . A Friend in Need is a
Friend indeed. . . . Tie on thy Hood, Child, and step out with the
Volume thou hadst in thy Hand but now, to the Stall at the Corner.
See _Isaac_ himself; shew him _Tasso's_ Autograph on the Fly-leaf, and
ask him for thirty or forty Shillings on it till I come back; but bid
him on no Pretence to part with it."
I did so, not much liking the Job--there are often such queer People there;
for old _Isaac_ deals not onlie in old Books, but old Silver Spoons.
Howbeit, I took the Volume to his Shop, and as I went in, _Betty_ came
out! What had been _her_ Businesse, I know not; but she lookt
at me and my Book as though she should like to know _mine_; but,
with her usual demure Curtsey, made Way for me, and walked off. I
got the Money with much Waiting, but not much other Dimcultie, and took
it to Father, who sent twenty Shillings to _Ellwood_, and gave me five
for my Payns. Poor _Ellwood_! he hath good Leisure to muse now on
_Guli Springett_.

Mother was soe worried by the Odour of the Rats, that they alle
started off a Day sooner than was first intended, leaving me merelie
a little extra Packing. Consequence was, that this Morning, before Dawn,
being earlie at my Task, there taps me at the Window an old Harridan that
Mother can't abide, who is always a crying, "Anie Kitchen-stuff
have you, Maids?"
Quoth I, "We've Nothing for you."
"Sure, my deary," answers she, in a cajoling voyce, "there's the Dripping
and Candles you promised me this Morning, along with the Pot-liquor."

"Dear Heart, Mrs. _Deb_!" says Nurse, laughing, "there is, indeed, a
Lot of Kitchen-stuff hid up near the Sink, which I dare say your Maid
told her she was to have; and as it will only make the House smell worse,
I don't see why she should not have it, and pay for it too."
Soe I laught, and gave it her forthe, and she put into my Hand two
Shillings; but then says, "Why, where's the Cheese?"

"We've no Cheese for you," sayd I.

"Well," says she, "it's a dear Bargayn; but . . ." peering towards me, "is
t'other Mayd gone, then?"
"Oh, yes! both of 'em," says I; "and I'm the Mistress," soe burst out a
laughing, and shut the Window, while she stumped off, with Something
between a Grunt and a Grone. Of course, I gave the Money to Nurse.

We had much Talk overnight of my poor dear Mother. Nurse came to her when
_Anne_ was born, and remained in the Family till after the Death
of Father's second Wife. _She_ was a fayr and delicate Gentlewoman, by
Nurse's Account, soft in Speech, fond of Father, and kind to us and the
Servants; but all Nurse's Suffrages were in Favour of mine own loved
Mother.

I askt Nurse how there came to have beene a Separation betweene Father
and Mother, soone after their Marriage. She made Answer, she never could
understand the Rights of it, having beene before her Time; but
they were both so good, and tenderly affectioned, she never could believe
there had beene anie reall Wrong on either Side. She always thought
my Grandmother must have promoted the Misunderstanding. Men were seldom
fond of their Mothers-in-law. He was very kind to the whole Family the
Winter before _Anne_ was born, when, but for him, they would not have
had a Roof over their Heads. Old Mr. _Powell_ died in this House,
the very Day before _Christmas_, which cast a Gloom over alle,
insomuch that my Mother would never after keep _Christmas Eve_;
and, as none of the Puritans did, they were alle of a Mind.

My other Grandfather dropt off a few Months after; he was very fond of
Mother.

At this time Grandmother was going to Law for her Widow's Thirds,
which was little worth the striving for, except to One soe extreme
poor.

Yet, spite of Gratitude and Interest, she must quarrel with Father,
and remove herself from his House; which even her own Daughter
thought very wrong.

Howbeit, Mother would have her first Child baptized after her; and
sent her alle the little Helps she could from her owne Purse, from
Time to Time, with Father's Privity and Concurrence.

He woulde have his next Girl called _Mary_, after Mother; though
the Name _she_ went by with him was "Sweet _Moll_;"--'tis now always
"Poor _Moll_," or "Your Mother."

Her health fayled about that Time, and they summered at _Forest Hill_--a
Place she was always hankering after; but when she came back she
told Nurse she never wished to see it agayn, 'twas soe altered.

Father's Sight was, meantime, getting worse and worse. She read to
him, and wrote for him often. He had become _Cromwell's_ Secretary,
and had received the public Thanks of the Commonwealth. . . .

Great as his Reputation was at Home, 'twas greater Abroad; and Foreigners
came to see him, as they still occasionally doe, from all Parts.

My Mother not onlie loved him, but was proud of him. All her Pleasures
were in Home.

From my Birth to that of the little Boy who died, her Health and Spiritts
were good; after that they failed; but she always tried to be
chearfull with Father.

She read her _Bible_ much, and was good to the Poor. Nurse says 'twas
almost miraculous how much Good she did at how little Cost, except
of Forethought and Trouble; and all soe secretlie.

She began to have an Impression she was for an early Grave, but did
not seem to lament it.

One Night, Nurse being beside her, awoke her from what she supposed an
uneasie Dream, as she was crying in her Sleep; but as soone as she oped
her Eyes, she looked surprised, and said it was a Vision of
Peace. She thought the Redeemer of alle Men had been talking with her.
Face to Face, as a Man talketh with his Friend, and that she had
fallen at his Feet in grateful Joy, and was saying, "Oh! I can't
express . . . I can't express--"
About a Week after, she dyed, without any particular Warning, except
a short Prick or two at the Heart. My Father was by. 'Twas much talked
of at the Time, she being soe young.

Discoursing of this and that, 'twas Midnight ere we went to Bed.

_Chalfont_.

ARRIVED at last; after what a Journey! _Ned_ had sent me Word Overnight
to expect, this Forenoon, a smart young Cavalier, on a fine
prancing Steed, with rich Accoutrements.

Howbeit, Cousin is neither smart nor handsome; and, at the Time specifyde,
there was brought up to the Door an old white Horse, blind of one
Eye, with an aquiline Nose, and, I should think, eight Feet high. The
Bridle was diverse from the Pillion, which was finely embroidered, but
tarnish, with the Stuffing oozing out in severall Places. Howbeit, 'twas
the onlie Equipage to be hired in the Ward, for Love or Money . . .
so _Ned_ sayd. . . . And he had a huge Pair of gauntlett Gloves, a
Whip, that was the smartest Thing about him, and a kind of Vizard over
his Nose and Mouth, which, he sayd, was to prevent his being too alluring;
but I know 'twas to ward off Infection.
I had meant to be brave; and Nurse and I had brushed up the green
camblet Skirt, but the rent Mother had made in it would show; however,
Nurse thought that, when I was up she could conceal it with a Corking-pin.

Thus appointed, _Ned_ led the Way, saying, the onlie Occasion on
which a Gentleman needed not to excuse himself to a Lady for going
first, was when they were to ride a Pillion.

Noe more jesting when once a-Horseback; for, after pacing through
a few deserted Streets, we found ourselves amidst such a Medly of
Carts, Coaches, and Wagons, full of People and Goods, all pouring
out of Town, that _Ned_ had enough to do to keep cleare of 'em, and
of the Horsemen and empty Vehicles coming back for fresh Loads.

Dear Heart! what jostling, cursing, and swearing! And how awfull
the Cause!

Houses padlocked and shuttered wherever we passed, and some with
red Crosses on the Doors. At the first Turnpike 'twas worst of all--a
complete Stoppage; Men squabbling, Women crying, and much good Daylight
wasted. Howbeit, _Ned_ desired me to keep my Mouth shut, my Eyes open,
and to trust to his good Care; and, by Dint of some shrewd Pilotage,
weathered the Strait; after which, our old Horse, whose Paces, to do him
Justice, proved very easie, took longer Steps than anie other on the
Road, by which Means we soon got quit of the Throng; onlie, we
continuallie gained on fresh Parties,--some dreadfully overloaded,
some knocked up alreadie, some baiting at the Roadside, and many
of the poorer Sort erecting 'emselves rude Tents and Cabins under
the Hedges.

Soon I began to rejoyce in the green Fields, and sayd how sweet was
the Air; and _Ned_ sayd, "Ah!

--a Brick-kiln," and signed at one with his Whip.

But I knew the Wind came t'other Way; and e'en Bricks are better
than dead Rats.

Half-way to _Amersham_ found _Hob Carter's_ Wagon, with Father's Organ
in't, sticking in the Hedge, without Man or Horse; and, by-and-by,
came upon _Hob_ himself, with a Party, carousing.

_Ned_ gave it him well, and sent him back at double-quick Time.
'Twas too bad. He had left Town overnight, and promised to be at
_Chalfont_ by Noon. I should have beene fain to keep him in Advance of
us; howbeit, we were forct to leave him in the Rear; and,
about two Miles beyond _Amersham_, we turned off the high Road into a
country Lane, which soon brought us to a small retired Hamlet, shaded
with Trees, and surrounded with pleasant Meadows and Orchards, which
was no other than _Chalfont_. There was Mother near the Gate, putting
some fine Things to bleach on a Sweetbriar-hedge. _Ned_ stopt to chat
with her, and learn where he might put his Horse, while I went to
seek Father; and soon found him, sitting up in a strait Chair,
outside the Garden-door.

Sayd, kissing him, "Dear Father, how is't with you? Are you comfortable
here?"
"Anything but that," replies he, very shortlie. "I am not in any Way at
my Ease in this Place. I can get no definite Notion of what 'tis like,
and what Notion I have is unfavourable. To finish all, they have stuck
me up here, like a Bottle in the Smoke."
"But here is a Cushion for you," quoth I, running in and back agayn; "and
I will set your Seat in the Sun, and out of the Wind, and put your
Staff within Reach."
"Thanks, dear _Deb_. And now, look about, Child, and tell me, with Precision,
what the Place is like."
Soe I told him 'twas an irregular two-storied Tenement, parcel Wood,
parcel Brick, with a deep Roof of old Tiles that had lost their Colour,
and were curiouslie variegated with green and yellow Moss; and that the
Eaves were dentilled, with Birds' Nests built in 'em, and a
big Honeysuckle growing to the upper Floor; and there was a great
and a little Gable, and a heavy Chimney-stack; a Casement of four
Compartments next the Door, and another of two over it; four
Lattice-windows at t'other End.

In Front, a steep Meadow, enamelled with King-cups and Blue-bells;
alongside the Gable-end, a Village Road, with deep Cart-ruts, and
Hawthorn Hedges.

Onlie one small Dwelling at hand, little better than a crazy Haystack;
Sheep in the Field, Bees in the Honeysuckle; and a little rippling
Rivulet flowing on continually.

"Why, now you have sett me quite at Ease!"

cries he, turning his bright Eyes thankfully towards the Sky. "I begin
to like the Place, and to bless the warm Sun and pure Air. Ha! so there
is a rippling Rivulet, that floweth on continually! . . . Lord,
forgive me for my peevish Petulance . . . for forgetting that I
could still hear the Lark sing her Morning Hymn, scent the Meadow-sweet
and new-mown Hay, detect the Bee at his Industry, and the Woodpecker
at his Mischief, discern the Breath of Cows, and hear the Lambs
bleat, and the Rivulet ripple continually!

Come! let us go and seek _Ned_."

And, throwing his Arm about me, draws me to him, saying, "This is my best
Walking-stick," and steps forward briskly and fearlessly.

Truly, I think _Ned_ loves him as though he were his own Father; and,
indeed, he hath scarce known any other. Kissing his Hand reverently, he
says,--"Honoured _Nunks_, how fares it with you? Do you like
_Chalfont_?" 
"Indeed I do, _Ned_," responds Father heartily.She exceeded George in brusqueness,
and tended to patronize him as a youngster. He noticed that she had
yellow eyes.

"What do you think of his wig?" she demanded in an astonishing whisper,
when the meal was over and chairs were being vacated.

"_Is_ it a wig?" George exclaimed ingenuously.

"Oh, you boys!" she protested, with superiority. "Of course it's a wig."

"But how do you know it's a wig?" George insisted stoutly.

"'Is it a wig!'" she scorned him.

"Well, I'm not up in wigs," said George. "Who is he, anyhow?"

"I forget his name. I've only met him once, here at tea. I think he's a
tea-merchant. He seemed to remember me all right."

"A tea-merchant! I wonder why Mrs. John put him on her right, then, and
Mr. Enwright on her left." George resented the precedence.

"Is Mr. Enwright really very great, then?"

"Great! You bet he is.... I was in Paris with him in the summer.
Whereabouts do you live in Paris?"

She improved, especially at the point where she said that Mr. Enwright's
face was one of the most wonderful faces that she had ever seen.
Evidently she knew Paris as well as George knew London. Apparently she
had always lived there. But their interchanges concerning Paris, on a
sofa in the drawing-room, were stopped by a general departure. Mr.
Enwright began it. The tea-merchant instantly supported the movement.
Miss Ingram herself rose. The affair was at an end. Nothing interesting
had been said in the general talk, and little that was sincere. No topic
had been explored, no argument taken to a finish. No wit worth
mentioning had glinted. But everybody had behaved very well, and had
demonstrated that he or she was familiar with the usages of society and
with aspects of existence with which it was proper to be familiar. And
everybody--even Mr. Enwright--thanked Mrs. John most heartily for her
quite delightful luncheon; Mrs. John insisted warmly on her own pleasure
and her appreciation of her guests' extreme good nature in troubling to
come, and she was beyond question joyously triumphant. And George,
relieved, thought, as he tried to rival the rest in gratitude to Mrs.
John:

"What was it all about? What did they all come for? _I_ came because she
made me. But why did the others come?"

The lunch had passed like a mild nightmare, and he felt as though, with
the inconsequence of dream-people, these people had gone away without
having accomplished some essential act which had been the object of
their gathering.


IV


When George came out of the front door, he beheld Miss Ingram on the
kerb, in the act of getting into a very rich fur coat. A chauffeur, in a
very rich livery, was deferentially helping her. Behind them stretched a
long, open motor-car. This car, existing as it did at a time when the
public acutely felt that automobiles splashed respectable foot-farers
with arrogant mud and rendered unbearable the lives of the humble in
village streets, was of the immodest kind described, abusively, as
'powerful and luxurious.' The car of course drew attention, because it
had yet occurred to but few of anybody's friends that they might
themselves possess even a modest car, much less an immodest one. George
had not hitherto personally known a single motor-car owner.

But what struck him even more than the car was the fur coat, and the
haughty and fastidious manner in which Miss Ingram accepted it from the
chauffeur, and the disdainful, accustomed way in which she wore it--as
though it were a cheap rag--when once it was on her back. In her
gestures he glimpsed a new world. He had been secretly scorning the
affairs of the luncheon and all that it implied, and he had been
secretly scorning himself for his pitiful lack of brilliancy at the
luncheon. These two somewhat contradictory sentiments were suddenly
shrivelled in the fire of his ambition which had flared up anew at
contact with a spark. And the spark was the sight of the girl's costly
fur coat. He must have a costly fur coat, and a girl in it, and the girl
must treat the fur coat like a cheap rag. Otherwise he would die a
disappointed man.

"Hallo!" called Miss Ingram.

"Hallo!" She had climbed into the car, and turned her head to look at
him. He saw that she was younger even than he had thought. She seemed
quite mature when she was still, but when she moved she had the lithe
motions of immaturity. As a boy, he now infallibly recognized a girl.

"Which way are you going?"

"Well--Chelsea more or less."

"I'll give you a lift."

He ought to have said: "Are you sure I shan't be taking you out of your
way?" But he said merely: "Oh! Thanks awfully!"

The chauffeur held the door for him, and then arranged a fur rug over
the knees of the boy and the girl. To be in the car gave George intense
pleasure, especially when the contrivance thrilled into life and began
to travel. He was thankful that his clothes were as smart as they ought
to be. She could not think ill of his clothes--no matter who her friends
were.

"This is a great car," he said. "Had it long?"

"Oh! It's not mine," answered Miss Ingram. "It's Miss Wheeler's."

"Who's Miss Wheeler, if I may ask?"

"Miss Wheeler! She's a friend of mine. She lives in Paris. But she has a
flat in London too. I came over with her. We brought the car with us.
She was to have come to the Orgreaves's to-day, but she had a headache.
So I took the car--and her furs as well. They fit me, you see.... I say,
what's your Christian name? I hate surnames, don't you?"

"George. What's yours?"

"Mine's Lois."

"What? How do you spell it?"

She spelt it, adding 'Of course.' He thought it was somehow a very
romantic name. He decidedly liked the name. He was by no means sure,
however, that he liked the girl. He liked her appearance, though she was
freckled; she was unquestionably stylish; she had ascendancy; she
imposed herself; she sat as though the world was the instrument of her
individuality. Nevertheless he doubted if she was kind, and he knew that
she was patronizing. Further, she was not a conversationalist. At the
luncheon she had not been at ease; but here in the car she was at ease
absolutely, yet she remained taciturn.

"D'you drive?" he inquired.

"Yes," she said. "Look here, would you like to sit in front? And I'll
drive."

"Good!" he agreed vigorously. But he had a qualm about the safety of
being driven by a girl.

She abruptly stopped the car, and the chauffeur swerved to the pavement.

"I'm going to drive, Cuthbert," she said.

"Yes, miss," said the chauffeur willingly. "It's a bit side-slippy,
miss."

She gave no answer to this remark, but got out of the car with a
preoccupied, frowning air, as if she was being obliged to take a
responsible post, which she could fill better than anybody else, rather
against her inclination. A few persons paused to watch. She carefully
ignored them; so did George.

As soon as she had seized the wheel, released the brake and started the
car, she began to talk, looking negligently about her. George thought:
"She's only showing off." Still, the car travelled beautifully, and
there was a curious illusion that she must have the credit for that. She
explained the function of handles, pedals, and switches, and George
deemed it proper to indicate that he was not without some elementary
knowledge of the subject. He leaned far back, as Lois leaned, and as the
chauffeur had leaned, enjoying the brass fittings, the indicators, and
all the signs of high mechanical elaboration.

He noticed that Lois sounded her horn constantly, and often upon no
visible provocation. But once as she approached cross-roads at
unslackened speed, she seemed to forget to sound it and then sounded it
too late. Nothing untoward happened; Sunday traffic was thin, and she
sailed through the danger-zone with grand intrepidity.

"I say, George," she remarked, looking now straight in front of her.
("She's a bit of a caution," he reflected happily.) "Have you got
anything special on this afternoon?"

"Nothing what you may call deadly special," he answered. He wanted to
call her 'Lois,' but his volition failed at the critical moment.

"Well, then, won't you come and have tea with Miss Wheeler and me?
There'll only be just a few people, and you must be introduced to Miss
Wheeler."

"Oh! I don't think I'd better." He was timid.

"Why not?" She pouted.

"All right, then. Thanks. I should like to."

"By the way, what's your surname?"

("She _is_ a caution," he reflected.)

"I wasn't quite sure," she said, when he had told her.

As neither offered further objections, Mr. Huxter said: "There's been
talk enough, I s'pose. Do you agree to 't?"

He waited while each gave an audible "yes." "Naow," said he, "I hain't
an earthly thing to hamper me."
The father dead, for the brother and sister no new life began.
Armida still skimmed all the milk and made the butter, looked after
Lucas as she had before, and Lucas attended impartially to the whole
of the farm, and Armida sometimes wondered what difference it made.

To be sure the profits were divided with the most rigid exactness; but
everything went tranquilly on until more than a year after their
father's death, when Armida had a suspicion, confirmed by appearances,
that Lucas was becoming interested in a young girl in a neighborhood
a few miles away.

The spirit of jealousy surely animated poor Armida, for nothing else could
have prompted her action.

Having ascertained the girl's name, she caused to be conveyed to
her the facts, colored for the occasion, relating to the partition
of the house and land; and the young woman, having a shrewd eye to
the main chance, bluntly told Lucas when next she saw him that she
didn't wish the half of a house nor the half of a farm.

[Illustration: THE DIVIDED HOUSE.--"ARMIDA'S SIDE OF THE HOUSE FELL MORE
AND MORE INTO RUIN; WHILE LUCAS ... KEPT HIS IN EXCELLENT REPAIR, AND
OCCASIONALLY RENEWED THE PAINT."]
Lucas had thought all might go on smoothly with a wife, and had counted
on her accepting the situation. Inquiring as to who had meddled in
his affairs, he traced the matter back to Armida, and coming home
mortified and angry, reproached her in unsparing terms, ending his
recital of wrongs with: "I don't know what you did it for, unless you was
afraid your half was going to be invaded; and if you feel that
way you'd better keep to your side and take care of your own property.
I ain't going to interfere."
Armida was powerless to protect herself except with tears, which did
not avail with Lucas. She made overtures of peace, such as offering to
cook her brother's meals and look after his share of the milk; but was
warned to attend to her own business.

Lucas had a new pipe-hole made in the kitchen chimney, and bought
a new stove, and hunted up a kitchen table, telling Armida she was
welcome to the stove and table they had previously used in common,
but he'd thank her to stay on her own side of the room.

The situation would have been ludicrous if it had not been grim
earnest to the brother and sister.

Lucas had a hard side to his character, and he could not forgive his
sister's interference.

He would not even give Armida advice, but allowed her cows to break
into her cornfield and her sheep to stray away, without warning
her, though all the while his heart pricked him at sight of her
distress.

Still all he would do was to suggest that she get a hired man.

Accordingly Armida, in despair, hired an easy-going, good-natured
creature that offered his services.

He did very well, and Armida got on better, and took courage.

But there was a dreadful blow in store for her.

Lucas brought a gang of carpenters to the farm, who instituted repairs
on his half of the house.

He even went so far as to commit the extravagance of having blinds
hung for his sitting-room and front chamber windows, and his half
of the front porch was trimmed with brackets, and then the whole
of his half of the house painted white, so that his neighbors rallied
him on being proud.

"Only," as one said, "why don't you extend your improvements right
along acrost the house, Lucas?

It looks sorter queer to see one-half so fine and the other so slack."

"Armida's free to do she's a mind to," said Lucas. "If she wants to
fix up her side, she can. I don't hinder her--"
"Nor you don't help her neither, as I see," said the other.

"I believe in 'tendin' to your own affairs and not interferin' with
other folks," Lucas rejoined.

Armida was made very unhappy by these changes and the comments of the
neighbors, and would gladly have beautified her half also, but had
no money to spend.

The farm had fallen behind, and she was pinched for means. She did what
she could, taking more care than usual of vines and flowers, and even
had an extra bed dug under her front windows, where she had many
bright-hued flowers; but as she rose from digging around her plants
and surveyed the house--Lucas's side with the new green blinds and the
clapboards shining with paint, hers with its stained, weather-beaten
appearance and its staring windows--she felt ashamed and
discouraged.

[Illustration: "AS ARMIDA SAT ON THE BENCH UNDER THE OLD RUSSET
APPLE-TREE, ...

SHE ...

LOOKED UP TO SEE A SHABBY, SHAMBLING, OLDISH MAN COMING AROUND THE
SIDE OF THE HOUSE."]

She feared her hired man was slack and neglected his work; yet when he
threatened to go, and afterward compromised the matter by offering to
stay if she'd marry him, at a loss what to do, and partly because she was
lonely, she married him. He was a respectable man, whose only fault
was laziness, and she hoped that now he would take an interest.
When Armida and her husband came back from the minister's and announced
to Lucas that they were married, his only comment was, "Well, a
slack help will make a shif'less husband."
Years went by, and Armida's side of the house fell more and more into ruin;
while Lucas, with what Armida considered cruel carefulness, kept
his in excellent repair and occasionally renewed the paint.

The contrast was so great that passers-by stopped their horses that
they might look and wonder at their leisure.

Every glance was like a blow to Armida, so that she avoided her sitting-room
and kept herself in the uncomfortable kitchen that was divided by
an imaginary line directly through the middle, a line never crossed
by her brother, her husband, or herself.

It would have looked absurd enough to a stranger to see this divided
room, with the brother clumsily carrying on his household affairs
on the one side and the sister doing her work on the other, with
often not a word exchanged between them for days together.

Absurd it might be, but it was certainly wretched.

Armida grew old rapidly. Her husband was a poor stick, and when,
as years passed, a touch of rheumatism gave him a real excuse for
laziness, he did little more than sit by the fire and smoke.

As Armida sat on the bench under the old russet apple-tree by the
back door one day, regretting her evil fate, she heard footsteps
approaching, and, pushing back her old sun-bonnet, looked up to see
a shabby, shambling, oldish man coming around the side of the house
and gazing in at the windows, "What ye doin' there?"

said Armida sharply.

The man turned, surveyed her with a smile, then said with a drawl she
remembered: "I hain't been gone so long but that I know ye, Armidy.

Don't you remember me?"
"Theodore Huxter! Is that you? Well!" and she hurried up to
him, and shook hands violently.

"I heard only last week that father was dead," he explained. "I seen
a man from this way, and he said he was gone. How long since?"
"More than ten years ago."

"Well, I thought I'd come and see ye."
"I'm glad you did," she said. "But come right in;" and she led
the way into the kitchen.

He leaned up against the door and surveyed the room. "I should 'a' s'posed
I'd have remembered this room, but what ye done to it? What hev you
got two stoves and two tables and all that for, Armidy?"
Armida told him all, winding up her story with a few tears.

"That accounts for the looks of the outside, I s'pose," was his only
comment. "I thought it was about the queerest I ever see. It's
ridiculous! Why haven't you and Lucas straightened out affairs before
this?"
"I can't, and he can't, I s'pose," she said hopelessly; "and
everything makes it worse.

I wouldn't care so much if he hadn't fixed up the outside the way he
did."

"Oh, well now, don't you fret. If I had money--but then I haven't."
"How have you lived sence you left home?"

Armida inquired.

"Why, I've had a still, and made essence and peddled it out; but I sold
the still to git money to come here, and it took all I had."

"Well now, Theodore, I wish you'd stay here now you've got round again,"
said Armida with great earnestness. "I've worried about you
a sight. I'd be glad to have you, and Lucas would, I know."
To spare a possible rebuff for Theodore, she ran out as she saw Lucas
coming to the house to get his supper, and apprised him of his brother's
arrival, glad to find he shared her pleasure in it. As Lucas entered the
room he shook hands with Theodore, saying, "How are ye?" to
which Theodore responded with "How are you, Lucas?"
Theodore was a relief and pleasure to all the family. He observed a
strict impartiality. If he split some kindling-wood for Armida,
he churned for Lucas. If he took Armida's old horse to be shod,
he helped Lucas wash his sheep. He accepted everything, asking no questions
after the first evening, but kept an observant eye on all.

Both Lucas and Armida had loved him since their earliest remembrance, and
retained their old fondness for him now. He was a welcome guest on
either side of the kitchen, and though when he announced of an
evening that he was going visiting, and stepped across the line to the
other side of the half from where he had been sitting, the owner
of the side he honored felt pleased by the distinction, yet the one on
the opposite side, though no longer (according to an understood
law) joining in the conversation, still had the benefit of
Theodore's narratives.

[Illustration: EVENING IN THE DIVIDED KITCHEN.]
He was busy, too, in his way. He was indefatigable in berry-picking and
herb-gathering, selling what Armida and Lucas did not wish, and showing
not a little shrewdness. When he had laid a little money together he
bought a still, and distilled essences of peppermint, wintergreen, and
other sweet-smelling herbs and roots, and when a store was accumulated
he filled a basket and departed on a peddling expedition, returning
with money in his purse and a handkerchief or ribbon for Armida.

Once he bought her a stuff gown, which she came near ruining by weeping
over it, it was such a delight.

Lucas remonstrated. "I think you're foolish, Theodore. Why don't you spend
your money on yourself? You'd a sight better get you a new coat."

"I'd rather see Armida crying over that stuff," said Theodore, "than
have a dozen coats. Nobody knows Armida's good looking, because
she's no good clothes. But she is, and when she gets that dress made
up and puts it on with that pink ribbon I bought her last time, she'll
look as pretty as a pink."
Not so great a success were the Venetian blinds that he bought second-hand
and gave to Armida to hang in the sitting-room. They proved to be in sorry
condition, and Theodore was much mortified.

Being a handy creature, he managed to patch them up so that, though they
could not be rolled up, they looked very well from the outside; and,
as he philosophically remarked:

"What more do you want, Armidy?

A room you never set in, you don't want any light in."

There was one thing that Theodore would not do. He would not, as he said,
fellowship with Jerry, Armida's husband. "Tell you, Armidy," he would
say, "I can't put up with a man like him."

"Some folks call you shif'less, Theodore," Armida retorted with
bitterness.

"Well, I am," he allowed; "but the difference is--I'm lazy, but work, my
fashion; but he's lazy, and don't work at all."
Though he disdained Jerry, he would rather do his tasks than see Armida's
interests suffer; and when he was not occupied with his still
or peddling, he busied himself on her side of the farm. Lucas would
at any time give him a helping hand rather than see Theodore hurt
himself, and so Armida's fences were mended and sundry repairs on her
barns and out-houses made. Lucas was still as stiff as ever, and the
help given was always to oblige Theodore, who laughed to himself but said
nothing.

He once attempted to wheedle Lucas into painting at least all of the
front of the house, but Lucas was not to be moved. Disappointed in
that, Theodore brought home a pot of yellow paint when returning
from his next expedition, and painted his sister's half of the
kitchen floor, in spite of her remonstrating that Lucas wouldn't like it,
though she acknowledged it looked pretty, and in spite of Lucas's
vexation at finding the room ridiculous.

"No more ridiculous than it was before," Theodore assured him; "it
couldn't be. Besides," he added, as an afterthought, "I'll bring it
plumb up to the middle, and neither of you will be trespassin' on the
other's side. I noticed one of your chairs was a leetle grain onto
Armidy's side the other night, and that ain't right."
In the middle of an afternoon, as Lucas was ploughing out his corn,
he heard a "Hello!"

to which, when it had been two or three times repeated, he replied,
though without looking around.

Presently he heard some one coming, in a sort of scuffling run, and
breathing heavily, and looked over his shoulder to see Theodore,
who dropped into a walk as he spied him, and gasped: "Lucas!

Say! Stop! Look here!"
"Well?" said Lucas, and pulled up his horse.

"I'm too old to run like this, that's a fact," said Theodore, mopping
his face and leaning up against the plough.

"There's a queer piece of work for us to do, Lucas. Armidy's all smashed
up on the road, right down here on that second dip, and I guess
Jerry is stone dead, and we must fetch 'em up just as soon as we
can."

Lucas made no comment, but mechanically unfastened the horse and
turned toward the house, his brother stumbling behind, quite exhausted
by the hurry and fatigue of the hour.

As they went Lucas said: "How did you come to know of it?"

"Well, it was cur'us," said Theodore. "You know I had old Sam this
morning, bringing in a little jag of wood for Armidy, and lengthened
out the traces to fit the old waggin.

Well, all I know about it is what I guess. I see from the looks they
must 'a' concluded to go to the village with some eggs and so on,
'cause you can see in the road where they smashed when the basket
flew out; and Jerry didn't know no more than to hitch up into the
buggy without shortenin' the traces, and you know how that would
work.

Well, the cur'us thing is that I was out in the paster mowin' some
brakes--here, let me hitch up this side, while you do the other--and
I heard somebody or somethin' comin' slam-bang, and I looked up--I
wa'n't near enough so as to see who 'twas nor anythin'--and I looked
up, and see 'em comin' like hudy, down one of them pitches.

Thinks said I, well, there's a hitch-up that's goin' to flinders--and
just then the forward wheel struck a big stone, and I see the woman
and man and all fly inter the air and come down agin, and the hoss
went."

"Where's the horse now?" said Lucas.

"I don't know, and I don't care.

Tell ye, best put a feather-bed in the bottom of this waggin, because her
arm's broke for certain, and I don't know what else.

I'll fetch it--if you've got some spirits."
"Yes," said Lucas, "I'll fetch some;" and both hurried into the
house, and soon came out again and hastened off.

"How did you know who 'twas?" Lucas inquired, with solemn curiosity
fitting the occasion.

"Why, I didn't; but I knew when they didn't offer to git up, whoever
'twas wanted help, and I put across the lot to 'em, and sure enough
'twas Armidy and Jerry.

I looked her over, and see by the way she lay that one of her arms
was broke, anyway, and stepped over to where Jerry was, and sir!
he was as dead as Moses! Head struck right on a big stone and broke his
neck--his head hung down like that," letting his hand fall limply
from the wrist.

"Does she know?" said Lucas.

"No, and I hope she won't for a spell. She hadn't come to when I left
her."
Lucas struck the horse with the end of the reins to urge him on.

"There, now you can see 'em," said Theodore, rising in his seat and
pointing down the road. Lucas followed his example, and looking before
them they could see both husband and wife lying motionless in the
road.

[Illustration: "LOOKING BEFORE THEM THEY COULD SEE BOTH HUSBAND AND
WIFE LYING MOTIONLESS IN THE ROAD."]

Between them they soon lifted poor Armida into the wagon, and laid her
on the bed as tenderly as might be, eliciting a groan by the operation.

"Best give her some?" said Lucas, bringing a bottle of brandy from out his
pocket. "Come to think of it, best not. She won't sense it so much
if she don't realize."
A brief examination of Jerry was sufficient. The brothers exchanged
glances and shakes of the head. "And to think," said Theodore, as they
regarded the body, "that it was only this morning I said to Armidy
there was one tramp too many in the house, meaning me, and now to have
my words brought before me like this! 'Twasn't anything but a joke,
but I hope she won't remember it against me."
"Well, first thing we've got to do is to get her to the house," said
Lucas.

Armida having been made as comfortable as the present would allow,
and Jerry having been brought up and consigned to the best chamber,
as befitted his state, Lucas hastened after the doctor and Aunt
Polly Slater.

The doctor found Armida in a sad case.

"Though I don't think," he assured the brothers, "if she isn't
worried she will be hard sick.

She's naturally rugged, and it's merely a simple fracture of the forearm.
The sprained ankle will be the most tedious thing, but I must charge
you to keep her in ignorance of her husband's death."
Theodore helped Aunt Polly in caring for Armida, and never was woman
more tenderly cared for. Many were the lies he was forced to tell,
as Armida was first surprised, then indignant, at Jerry's apparent
neglect.

"Even Lucas has come to the door and looked at me," she complained, "and
Jerry ain't so much as been near me."

Theodore was fain to concoct a story about a strained back that would not
allow Jerry to rise from the bed. When it was deemed prudent to tell
her, the task fell to Theodore, who was very tender of his sister,
remembering that though he considered Jerry a shiftless, poor shack
of a creature, Armida probably had affection for him.

She took her loss very quietly.

"He was always good to me," she said, "and he cared for me when no
one else did."

"You're wrong there," Theodore remonstrated.

"I used to tell myself I was," she replied sadly. "I knew I give the
first offence, but Lucas never would 'a' done as he did by the
house if he'd cared for me."

Lucas heard the reproach where he stood out of sight in the little
entry that led to Armida's room, listening to the brother and sister
as they talked together within.

He often lingered there, wishing to enter, but not daring to; longing
to atone for the unhappiness he had caused his sister, but not
knowing how to set about it.

Now, taking Theodore into his confidence, he set to work to obliterate
all outward signs that made it "the divided house," leaving to his
brother the task of keeping it from Armida.

As she querulously inquired what all the hammering and pounding that
was going on in front of the house meant, Theodore had a story ready
about the steps to the front porch being so worn out that Lucas had
to have some new ones, "or else break his legs goin' over them." The
smell of paint was accounted for by Lucas "havin' one of his spells of
gittin' his side painted over agin;" on which Armida gave way to
tears, until her brother comforted her by saying it didn't make
much difference, a new coat couldn't make it any whiter than it was.

It was a great day when Armida was pronounced well enough to eat
breakfast in the kitchen. Hobbling out with the aid of Theodore's
arm, she stepped on the threshold, and looked over to where Lucas stood
by his window. He greeted her with, "How are ye, Armidy?" but did not
leave his place.

"It seems good to git out of my bedroom," said Armida; then
stopped, gazed about her, and sank into a convenient chair,
exclaiming, "What does it mean?"
For both her and Lucas's old stoves were gone, and a new one stood directly
before the middle of the chimney, with its pipe running into the old
pipe-hole that they used before the house was divided.

The coffee-pot steamed and bubbled over the fire, and a platter of ham
and eggs stood on the hearth, while the table, set for breakfast, stood
exactly in the centre of the room; the dividing line had been wiped out
by the paint-brush, and Lucas's side shone with yellow paint like her
own.

"What does it mean?" she cried, trembling and clutching at Theodore's
arm. Theodore said nothing, but slipped out of the room, and Lucas,
after an awkward pause, said: "Armidy, I wanted, if you was willin',
that we should quit doin' as we have done and have things together
as we used to. Seems as if it would be pleasanter, and if you can forgive
what I've done, I'll try to make it up to ye."
"Why, Lucas!" was all she could say.

"I know I hain't done by ye like a brother," said Lucas, anxious to get
his self-imposed humiliation over, "and I'm sorry, and I'd like to
begin over again."
"I'm just as much a transgressor as you be," said Armida, anxious to
spare him. "If I hadn't said what I did, I 'spose you'd married Ianthe,
and like as not had a family round ye."
"I don't know as I care _now_," said Lucas; "I have felt hard to ye; but
I see Ianthe last March"--he laughed--"and I didn't mourn much that
her name wa'n't Huxter. But that's neither here nor there.

If you feel as if you could git along with two old brothers to look after
instead of one, and overlook what's passed--"
"I'd be glad to, Lucas, if you won't lay up anything against me."

"Well, then;" and coming to her side Lucas bent over her, and, to her
great surprise, kissed her. Turning away before she could return the kiss,
he opened the back door and called to Theodore.

As Theodore came in, Lucas said: "If you had a shawl round ye,
Armidy, wouldn't you like to git out a minute before breakfast?" and
without waiting for an answer, he brought her shawl and wrapped
it round her, then put on her bonnet.

"Can't you and I," he said to Theodore, "make a chair and take her out?
You hain't forgot sence you left school, hev you?"

Locking their hands together they formed what school-children call
a chair, and lifting Armida between them, carried her through the
hall, out at the front door, down the walk to the gate, and turned
round, while Theodore bade his sister look up at the house.

Armida obeyed.
She saw the house glistening with paint, her side of it as white as Lucas's,
and blinds adorning her front windows, while the front porch, with
new-laid floor and steps and bristling with brackets, was, in her
eyes, the most imposing of entrances.

Could it be true? she asked herself, and shut her eyes; then
glanced again, then looked at her brothers, who were both silent,
Theodore smiling with joy, while Lucas looked gravely down at her.

"Oh, Lucas!"

she cried, throwing her arms around his neck, "you done this for
me!"
"I _told_ you I was sorry, Armidy," he said.

SCIENTIFIC KITE-FLYING.

BY CLEVELAND MOFFETT.

On the long peninsula that separates New York Bay from Newark Bay,
there is, among other things, a red house by an open field, in which
lives the king of kite-flyers.

Every one in Bayonne, the town which covers this peninsula, knows the red
house by the open field; for scarcely a day passes, winter or summer,
that kites are not seen sailing above this spot--sometimes a
solitary "hurricane flyer," when the wind is sweeping in strong
from the ocean; sometimes a tandem string of seven or eight
six-footers, each one fastened to the main line by its separate cord.

And wonderful are the feats in kite-illumination accomplished by Mr.
Eddy (the king aforesaid) on holiday nights, especially on the Fourth of
July, when he keeps the sky ablaze with gracefully waving meteors, to
the profound awe or admiration of his fellow-townsmen.

If you enter the red house and show a proper interest in the
subject, Mr. Eddy will take you up to his kite-room, where skyflyers of
all sorts, sizes, and materials range the walls--from the tiniest,
made of tissue paper, to nine-footers, with lath frames and oil-cloth
coverings.
Haim's daughter or any other girl, and to
publish or conceal the betrothal as he chose and as she chose. Yes,
useless! He felt, inexplicably, a criminal. He felt that he had
committed an enormity. It was not a matter of argument; it was a matter
of instinct. The old man's frightful and irrational resentment was his
condemnation. He could not face the old man.

He thought grievously: "I am up against this man. All politeness and
conventions have vanished. It's the real, inmost me, and the real,
inmost him." Nobody else could take a part in the encounter. And he was
sad, because he could not blame the old man. Could he blame the old man
for marrying a charwoman? Why, he could only admire him for marrying the
charwoman. In marrying the charwoman the old man had done a most
marvellous thing. Could he blame Marguerite? Impossible. Marguerite's
behaviour was perfectly comprehensible. He understood Marguerite and he
understood her father; he sympathized with both of them. But Marguerite
could not understand her father, and her father could not understand
either his daughter or George. Never could they understand! He alone
understood. And his understanding gave him a melancholy, hopeless
feeling of superiority, without at all lessening the strange conviction
of guilt. He had got himself gripped by destiny. Destiny had captured
all three of them. But not the fourth. The charwoman possessed the
mysterious power to defy destiny. Perhaps the power lay in her
simplicity.... Fool! An accursed negligence had eternally botched his
high plans for peace and goodwill.

"Yes," he said. "I am."

"And how long have you been engaged, sir?"

"Oh! Since before Marguerite left here." He tried to talk naturally and
calmly.

"Then you've been living here all this time like a spy--a dirty spy. My
daughter behaves to us in an infamous manner. She makes an open scandal.
And all the time you're----"

George suddenly became very angry. And his anger relieved and delighted
him. With intense pleasure he felt his anger surging within him. He
frowned savagely. His eyes blazed. But he did not move.

"Excuse me," he interrupted, with cold and dangerous fury. "She didn't
do anything of the kind."

Mr. Haim went wildly on, intimidated possibly by George's defiance, but
desperate:

"And all the time, I say, you stay on here, deceiving us, spying on us.
Going every night to that wicked, cruel, shameful girl and
tittle-tattling. Do you suppose that if we'd had the slightest idea----"

George walked up to him.

"I'm not going to stand here and listen to you talking about Marguerite
like that."

Their faces were rather close together. George forced himself away by a
terrific effort and left the kitchen.

"Jackanapes!"

George swung round, very pale. Then with a hard laugh he departed. He
stood in the hall, and thought of Mrs. Haim upstairs. The next moment he
had got his hat and overcoat and was in the street. A figure appeared in
the gloom. It was Mr. Prince.

"Hallo! Going out? How are things?"

"Oh! Fine!" He could scarcely articulate. A ghastly sob impeded the
words. Tears gushed into his eyes. The dimly glowing oblongs in the dark
façades of the Grove seemed unbearably tragic.


III


No. 6 Romney Studios, Manresa Road, Chelsea, was at the end of the
narrow alley which, running at right angles to the road, had a blank
wall on its left and Romney Studios on its right. The studios themselves
were nondescript shanties which reminded George of nothing so much as
the office of a clerk-of-the-works nailed together anyhow on ground upon
which a large building is in course of erection. They were constructed
of brick, wood, waterproof felting, and that adaptable material,
corrugated iron. No two were alike. None had the least pretension to
permanency, comeliness, or even architectural decency. They were all
horribly hot in summer, and they all needed immense stoves to render
them habitable in winter. In putting them up, however, cautiously and
one by one, the landlord had esteemed them to be the sort of thing that
was good enough for artists and that artists would willingly accept. He
had not been mistaken. Though inexpensive they were dear, but artists
accepted them with eagerness. None was ever empty. Thus it was
demonstrated once more that artists were exactly what capitalists and
other sagacious persons had always accused them of being.

When George knocked on the door of No. 6, the entire studio, and No. 5
also, vibrated. As a rule Agg, the female Cerberus of the shanty,
answered any summons from outside; but George hoped that to-night she
would be absent; he knew by experience that on Sunday nights she usually
paid a visit to her obstreperous family in Alexandra Grove.

The door was opened by a young man in a rich but torn and soiled
eighteenth-century costume, and he looked, in the half-light of the
entrance, as though he was just recovering from a sustained debauch. The
young man stared haughtily in silence. Only after an appreciable
hesitation did George see through the disguise and recover himself
sufficiently to remark with the proper nonchalance:

"Hallo, Agg! What's the meaning of this?"

"You're before your time," said she, shutting the door.

While he took off his overcoat Agg walked up the studio. She made an
astonishingly life-like young man. George and Agg were now not
unfriendly; but each constantly criticized the other in silence, and
both were aware of the existence of this vast body of unspoken
criticism. Agg criticized more than George, who had begun to take the
attitude that Agg ought to be philosophically accepted as
incomprehensible rather than criticized. He had not hitherto seen her in
male costume, but he would not exhibit any surprise.

"Where's Marguerite?" he inquired, advancing to the Stove and rubbing
his hands above it.

"Restrain your ardour," said Agg lightly. "She'll appear in due season.
I've told you--you're before your time."

George offered no retort. Despite his sharp walk, he was still terribly
agitated and preoccupied, and the phenomena of the lamplit studio had
not yet fully impressed his mind. He saw them, including Agg, as
hallucinations gradually turning to realities. He could not be worried
with Agg. His sole desire was to be alone with Marguerite immediately,
and he regarded the fancy costume chiefly as an obstacle to the
fulfilment of that desire, because Agg could not depart until she had
changed it for something else.

Then his gaze fell upon a life-size oil-sketch of Agg in the
eighteenth-century male dress. The light was bad, but it disclosed the
sketch sufficiently to enable some judgment on it to be formed. The
sketch was exceedingly clever, painted in the broad, synthetic manner
which Steer and Sickert had introduced into England as a natural
reaction from the finicking, false exactitudes of the previous age. It
showed Agg, glass in hand, as a leering, tottering young drunkard in
frills and velvet. The face was odious, but it did strongly resemble
Agg's face. The hair was replaced by a bag wig.

"Who did that?"

"I did, of course," said Agg. She pointed to the large mirror at the
opposite side of the studio.

"The dickens you did!" George murmured, struck. But now that he knew the
sketch to be the work of a woman he at once became more critical,
perceiving in it imitative instead of original qualities. "What is it? I
mean, what's the idea at the back of it, if it isn't a rude question,
Agg?"

"Title: 'Bonnie Prince Charlie,'" said Agg, without a smile. She was
walking about, in a convincingly masculine style. Unfortunately she
could not put her hands in her pockets, as the costume was without
pockets.

"Is that your notion of the gent?"

"Didn't you know I'm supposed to be very like him?" cried Agg, vain. The
stern creature had frailties. Then she smiled grimly. "Look at my cold
blue eyes, my sharp chin, my curly-curly lips, my broad forehead, my
clear complexion. And I hope I'm thin enough. Look!" She picked up the
bag wig, which was lying on a chair, and put it on, and posed. The pose
was effective.

"You seem to know a lot about this Charlie."

"Well, our well-beloved brother Sam is writing a monograph on him, you
see. Besides, every one----"

"But what's the idea? What's the scheme? Why is he drunk?"

"He always was drunk. He was a confirmed drunkard at thirty. Both his
fair ladies had to leave him because he was just a violent brute. And so
on and so on. I thought it was about time Charlie was shown up in his
true colours. And I'm doing it!... After all the sugar-stick Academy
pictures of him, my picture will administer a much-needed tonic to our
dear public. I expect I can get it into next year's New English Art
Club, and if I do it will be the sensation of the show.... I haven't
done with it yet. In fact I only started yesterday. There's going to be
a lot more realism in it. All those silly Jacobite societies will
furiously rage together.... And it's a bit of pretty good painting, you
know."

"It is," George agreed. "But it's a wild scheme."

"Not so wild as you think, my minstrel boy. It's very, much needed. It's
symbolic, that picture is. It's a symbolic antidote. Shall I tell you
what put me on to it? Look here."

She led him to Marguerite's special work-table, under the curtained
window. There, on a sheet of paper stretched upon a drawing-board, was
the finished design which Marguerite had been labouring at for two days.
It was a design for a bookbinding, and the title of the book was, _The
Womanly Woman,_ and the author of the book was Sir Amurath Onway, M.D.,
D.Sc., F.R.S., a famous specialist in pathology. Marguerite, under
instruction from the bookbinders, had drawn a sweet picture, in quiet
colours, of a womanly woman in a tea-gown, sitting in a cosy corner of a
boudoir. The volume was destined to open the spring season of a
publishing firm of immense and historic respectability.

"Look at it! Look at it!" Agg insisted. "I've read the book myself. Poor
Marguerite had to go through the proofs, so that she could be sure of
getting the spirit of the binding right. Do you know why he wrote it? He
hates his wife--that's why. His wife isn't a womanly woman, and he's put
all his hatred of her into this immortal rubbish. Read this great work,
and you will be made to see what fine, noble creatures we men are"--she
strode to and fro--"and how a woman's first duty is to recognize her
inferiority to us, and be womanly.... Damme!... As soon as I saw what
poor Marguerite had to do I told her I should either have to go out and
kill some one, or produce an antidote. And then it occurred to me to
tell the truth about one of the leading popular heroes of history." She
bowed in the direction of the canvas. "I began to feel better at once. I
got the costume from a friend of the learned Sam's, and I've ruined
it.... I'm feeling quite bright to-night."

She gazed at George with her cold blue eyes, arraigning in his person
the whole sex which she thought she despised but which her deepest
instinct it was to counterfeit. George, while admiring, was a little
dismayed. She was sarcastic. She had brains and knowledge and ideas.
There was an intellectual foundation to her picture. And she could
paint--like a witch! Oh! She was ruthlessly clever! Well, he did not
like her. What he wanted, though he would not admit it, was old Onway's
womanly woman. And especially in that hour he wanted the womanly woman.

"What's Marguerite up to?" he asked quietly.

"After the heat and the toil of the day she's beautifying herself for
your august approval," said Agg icily. "I expect she's hurrying all she
can. But naturally you expect her to be in a permanent state of waiting
for you--fresh out of the cotton-wool."

The next instant Marguerite appeared from the cubicle or dressing-room
which had been contrived in a corner of the studio to the left of the
door. She was in her plain, everyday attire, but she had obviously just
washed, and her smooth hair shone from the brush.

"Well, George."

"Well, Marguerite."

Both spoke casually. Celia Agg was the only person in the world privy to
their engagement; but they permitted themselves no freedoms in front of
her. As Marguerite came near to George, she delicately touched his
arm--nothing more. She was smiling happily, but as soon as she looked
close at his face under the lamp, her face changed completely. He
thought: "She understands there's something up."

She said, not without embarrassment:

"George, I really must have some fresh air. I haven't had a breath all
day. Is it raining?"

"No. Would you like to go for a walk?"

"Oh! I should!"

He was very grateful, and also impressed by the accuracy of her
intuitions and her quick resourcefulness. She had comprehended at a
glance that he had a profound and urgent need to be alone with her. She
was marvellously comforting, precious beyond price. All his
susceptibilities, wounded by the scene at Alexandra Grove, and further
irritated by Agg, were instantaneously salved and soothed. Her tones,
her scarcely perceptible gesture of succour, produced the assuaging
miracle. She fulfilled her role to perfection. She was a talented and
competent designer, but as the helpmeet of a man she had genius. His
mind dwelt on her with rapture.

"You'll be going out as soon as you've changed, dear?" she said
affectionately to Agg.

"Yes," answered Agg, who at the mirror was wiping from her face the
painted signs of alcoholism. She had thrown off the bag wig. "You'd
better take the key with you. You'll be back before I am." She sat down
on one of the draped settees which were beds in disguise, and
Marguerite got a hat, cloak, and gloves.

While George was resuming his overcoat, which Marguerite held for him,
Agg suddenly sprang up and rushed towards them.

"Good night, Flora Macdonald," she murmured in her deep voice in
Marguerite's ear, put masculine arms round her, and kissed her. It was a
truly remarkable bit of male impersonating, as George had to admit,
though he resented it.

Then she gave a short, harsh laugh.

"Good night, old Agg," said Marguerite, with sweet responsiveness, and
smiled ingenuously at George.

George, impatient, opened the door, and the damp wind swept anew into
the studio.


IV


It was a fine night; the weather had cleared, and the pavements were
drying. George, looking up in a pause of the eager conversational
exchanges, drew tonic air mightily into his lungs.

"Where are we?" he asked.

"Tite Street," said Marguerite. "That's the Tower House." And she nodded
towards the formidable sky-scraper which another grade of landlord had
erected for another grade of artists who demanded studios from the
capitalist. Marguerite, the Chelsea girl, knew Chelsea, if she knew
nothing else; her feet turned corners in the dark with assurance, and
she had no need to look at street-signs. George regarded the short
thoroughfare made notorious by the dilettantism, the modishness, and the
witticisms of art. It had an impressive aspect. From the portico of one
highly illuminated house a crimson carpet stretched across the pavement
to the gutter; some dashing blade of the brush had maliciously
determined to affront the bourgeois Sabbath. George stamped on the
carpet; he hated it because it was not his carpet; and he swore to
himself to possess that very carpet or its indistinguishable brother.

"I was a most frightful ass to leave that letter lying about!" he
exclaimed.

"Oh! George!" she protested lovingly. "It could so easily happen--a
thing like that could. It was just bad luck."

A cushion! The divinest down cushion! That was what she was! She was
more. She defended a man against himself. She restored him to
perfection. Her affectionate faith was a magical inspiration to him; it
was, really, the greatest force in the world. Most women would have
agreed with him, however tactfully, that he had been careless about the
letter. An Adela would certainly have berated him in her shrewish, thin
tones. A Lois would have been sarcastic, scornfully patronizing him as a
'boy.' And what would Agg have done?... They might have forgiven and
even forgotten, but they would have indulged themselves first.
Marguerite was exteriorly simple. She would not perhaps successfully
dominate a drawing-room. She would cut no figure playing with lives at
the wheel of an automobile. After all, she would no doubt be ridiculous
in the costume of Bonnie Prince Charlie. But she was finer than the
other women whose images floated in his mind. And she was worth millions
of them. He was overpowered by the sense of his good fortune in finding
her. He went cold at the thought of what he would have missed if he had
not found her. He would not try to conceive what his existence would be
without her, for it would be unendurable. Of this he was convinced.

"Do you think he'll go talking about it?" George asked, meaning of
course Mr. Haim.

"More likely _she_ will," said Marguerite.

He positively could feel her lips tightening. Futile to put in a word
for Mrs. Haim! When he had described the swoon, Marguerite had shown
neither concern nor curiosity. Not the slightest! Antipathy to her
stepmother had radiated from her almost visibly in the night like the
nimbus round a street lamp. Well, she did not understand; she was
capable of injustice; she was quite wrong about Mrs. Haim. What matter?
Her whole being was centralized on himself. He was aware of his
superiority.

He went on quietly:

"If the old man gets chattering at the office, the Orgreaves will know,
and the next minute the news'll be in the Five Towns. I can't possibly
let my people hear from anybody else of _my engagement_ before they hear
from me. However, if it comes to the point, we'll tell everybody. Why
not?"

"Oh, but dearest! It was so nice it being a secret. It was the loveliest
thing in the world."

"Yes, it was jolly."

"Perhaps father will feel differently in the morning, and then you
can----"

"He won't," said George flatly. "You don't know what a state he's in. I
didn't tell you--he called me a spy in the house, a dirty spy. Likewise
a jackanapes. Doubtless a delicate illusion to my tender years."

"He _didn't_!"

"He did, honestly."

"So that was what upset you so!" Marguerite murmured. It was her first
admission that she had noticed his agitation.

"Did I look so upset, then?"

"George, you looked terrible. I felt the only thing to do was for us to
go out at once."

"Oh! But surely I wasn't so upset as all that?" said George, finding in
Marguerite's statement a reflection upon his ability to play the part of
an imperturbable man of the world. "Agg didn't seem to see anything."

"Agg doesn't know you like I do."

She insinuated her arm into his. He raised his hand and took hold of
hers. In the left pocket of his overcoat he could feel the somewhat
unwieldy key of the studio. He was happy. The domestic feel of the key
completed his happiness.

"Of course I can't stay on there," said he.

"At father's? Oh! I do wish father hadn't talked like that." She spoke
sadly, not critically.

"I suppose I must sleep there to-night. But I'm not going to have my
breakfast there to-morrow morning. No fear! I'll have it up town.
Lucas'll be able to put me up to some new digs. He always knows about
that sort of thing. Then I'll drive down and remove all my worldly in a
four-wheeler."

He spoke with jauntiness, in his role of male who is easily equal to any
situation. But she said in a low, tenderly commiserating voice:

"It's a shame!"

"Not a bit!" he replied. Then he suddenly stood still and brought her to
a halt. Under his erratic guidance they had turned along Dilke Street,
and northwards again, past the Botanical Garden. "And this is Paradise
Row!" he said, surveying the broad street which they had come into.

"Paradise Row?" she corrected him softly. "No, dear, it's Queen's Road.
It runs into Pimlico Road."

"I mean it used to be Paradise Row," he explained. "It was the most
fashionable street in Chelsea, you know. Everybody that was anybody
lived here."

"Oh! Really!" She showed an amiable desire to be interested, but her
interest did not survive more than a few seconds. "I didn't know. I know
Paradise Walk. It's that horrid little passage down there on the right."

She had not the historic sense; and she did not understand his mood, did
not in the slightest degree suspect that events had been whipping his
ambition once more, and that at that moment he was enjoying the
seventeenth and even the sixteenth centuries, and thinking of Sir Thomas
More and Miss More, and all manner of grandiose personages and abodes,
and rebelling obstinately against the fact, that he was as yet a
nonentity in Chelsea, whereas he meant in the end to yield to nobody in
distinction and renown. He knew that she did not understand, and he
would not pretend to himself that she did. There was no reason why she
should understand. He did not particularly want her to understand.

"Let's have a look at the river, shall we?" he suggested, and they moved
towards Cheyne Walk.

"Dearest," she said, "you must come and have breakfast at the studio
to-morrow morning. I shall get it myself."

"But Agg won't like me poking my nose in for breakfast."

"You great silly! Don't you know she simply adores you?"

He was certainly startled by this remark, and he began to like Agg.

"Old Agg! Not she!" he protested, pleased, but a little embarrassed.
"Will she be up?"

"You'll see whether she'll be up or not. Nine o'clock's the time, isn't
it?"

They reached the gardens of Cheyne Walk. Three bridges hung their double
chaplets of lights over the dark river. On the southern shore the shapes
of high trees waved mysteriously above the withdrawn woodland glades
that in daytime were Battersea Park. Here and there a tiny red gleam
gave warning that a pier jutted out into the stream; but nothing moved
on the water. The wind that swept clean the pavements had unclouded ten
million stars. It was a wind unlike any other wind that ever blew, at
once caressing and roughly challenging. The two, putting it behind them,
faced eastward, and began to pass one by one the innumerable ornate
gas-lamps of Chelsea Embankment, which stretched absolutely rectilinear
in front of them for a clear mile. No soul but themselves was afoot. But
on the left rose gigantic and splendid houses, palaces designed by
modern architects, vying with almost any houses in London, some dark,
others richly illuminated and full of souls luxurious, successful, and
dominant. As the girl talked creatively about the breakfast, her arm
pressed his, and his fingers clasped her acquiescent fingers, and her
chaste and confiding passion ran through him in powerful voltaic
currents from some inexhaustible source of energy in her secret heart. It
seemed to him that since their ride home in the hansom from the
Promenade concert her faculty for love had miraculously developed. He
divined great deeps in her, and deeps beyond those deeps. The tenderness
which he felt for her was inexpressible. He said not a word, keeping to
himself the terrific resolves to which she, and the wind, and the
spectacular majesty of London inspired him. He and she would live
regally in one of those very houses, and people should kowtow to her
because she was the dazzling wife of the renowned young architect,
George Cannon. And he would show her to Mrs. John Orgreave and to Lois,
and those women should acknowledge in her a woman incomparably their
superior. They should not be able to hide their impressed astonishment
when they saw her.

Nothing of all this did he impart to her as she hung supported and
inspiring on his arm. He held it all in reserve for her. And then,
thinking again for a moment of what she had said about Agg's liking for
him, he thought of Agg's picture and of Marguerite's design which had
originated the picture. It was a special design, new for Marguerite,
whose bindings were generally of conventional patterns; it was to be
paid for at a special price because of its elaborateness; she had worked
on it for nearly two days; in particular she had stayed indoors during
the whole of Sunday to finish it; and it was efficient, skilful, as good
as it could be. It had filled her life for nearly two days--and he had
not even mentioned it to her! In the ruthless egotism of the ambitious
man he had forgotten it, and forgotten to imagine sympathetically the
contents of her mind. Sharp remorse overcame him; she grew noble and
pathetic in his eyes.... Contrast her modest and talented industry with
the exacting, supercilious, incapable idleness of a Lois!

"That design of yours is jolly good," he said shortly without any
introductory phrases.

She perceptibly started.

"Oh! George! I'm so glad you think so. I was afraid. You know it was
horribly difficult--they give you no chance."

"I know. I know. You've come out of it fine."

She was in heaven; he also, because it was so easy for him to put her
there. He glanced backwards a few hours into the past, and he simply
could not comprehend how it was that he had been so upset by the
grotesque scene with Mr. Haim in the basement of No. 8. Everything was
all right; everything was utterly for the best.


CHAPTER VI

THE DINNER

I


Early on the morning of a Tuesday in the second half of June 1903,
George Cannon was moving fast on a motor-bicycle westwards down the
slope of Piccadilly. At any rate he had the sensation of earliness, and
was indeed thereby quite invigorated; it almost served instead of the
breakfast which he had not yet taken. But thousands of people travelling
in the opposite direction in horse-omnibuses and in a few motor-buses
seemed to regard the fact of their being abroad at that hour as dully
normal. They had fought, men and girls, for places in the crammed
vehicles; they had travelled from far lands such as Putney; they had
been up for hours, and the morning, which was so new to George, had lost
its freshness for them; they were well used to the lustrous summer
glories of the Green Park; what they chiefly beheld in the Green Park
was the endless lines of wayfarers, radiating from Victoria along the
various avenues, on the way, like themselves, to offices, ware-houses,
and shops. Of the stablemen, bus-washers, drivers, mechanics,
chauffeurs, and conductors, who had left their beds much in advance even
of the travellers, let us not speak--even they had begun the day later
than their wives, mothers, or daughters. All this flying population,
urged and preoccupied by pitiless time, gazed down upon George and saw a
gay young swell without a care in the world rushing on 'one of those
motor-bikes' to freedom.

George was well aware of the popular gaze, and he supported it with
negligent pride. He had the air of having been born to greatness;
cigarette smoke and the fumes of exploded petrol and the rattle of
explosions made a fine wake behind his greatness. In two years, since he
had walked into Mr. Haim's parlour, his body had broadened, his eyes
had slightly hardened, and his complexion and hair had darkened. And
there was his moustache, very sprightly, and there was a glint of gold
in his teeth. He had poor teeth, but luxuriant hair, ruthlessly cut and
disciplined and subjugated. His trousers were clipped tightly at the
ankles, and his jacket loosely buttoned by the correct button; his soft
felt hat achieved the architect's ideal of combining the perfectly
artistic with the perfectly modish. But the most remarkable and
envy-raising portion of his attire was the loose, washable, yellow
gloves, with large gauntlets, designed to protect the delicately tended
hands when they had to explore among machinery.

He had obtained the motor-bicycle in a peculiar way. On arriving at Axe
Station for the previous Christmas holidays, he had seen two low-hung
lamps brilliantly flashing instead of the higher and less powerful lamps
of the dogcart, and there had been no light-reflecting flanks of a horse
in front of the lamps. The dark figure sitting behind the lamps proved
to be his mother. His mother herself had driven him home. He noted
calmly that as a chauffeur she had the same faults as the contemned Lois
Ingram. Still, she did drive, and they reached Ladderedge Hall in
safety. He admired, and he was a little frightened by, his mother's
terrific volition to widen her existence. She would insist on doing
everything that might be done, and nobody could stop her. Who would have
dreamt that she, with her narrow, troubled past, and her passionate
temperament rendered somewhat harsh by strange experiences, would at the
age of forty-six or so be careering about the country at the wheel of a
motor-car? Ah! But she would! She would be a girl. And by her individual
force she successfully carried it off! Those two plotters, she and his
stepfather, had conspired to buy a motor-car in secret from him. No
letter from home had breathed a word of the motor-car. He was
thunder-struck, and jealous. He had spent the whole of the Christmas
holidays in that car, and in four days could drive better than his
mother, and also--what was more difficult--could convince her obstinate
self-assurance that he knew far more about the mechanism than she did.
As a fact, her notions of the mechanism, though she was convinced of
their rightness, were mainly fantastic. George of course had had to
punish his parents. He had considered it his duty to do so. "The _least_
you can do," he had said discontentedly and menacingly, "the _least_ you
can do is to give me a decent motor-bike!" The guilty pair had made
amends in the manner thus indicated for them. George gathered from
various signs that his stepfather was steadily and rapidly growing
richer. George had acted accordingly--not only in the matter of the
motor-bicycle, but in other matters.

Now, on this June morning he had just begun to breast the slope rising
from the hollow to Hyde Park Corner when a boy shot out from behind a
huge, stationary dust-cart on the left and dashed unregarding towards
him. George shouted. The boy, faced with sudden death, was happily so
paralysed that he fell down, thus checking his momentum by the severest
form of friction. George swerved aside, missing the small, outstretched
hands by an inch or two, but missing also by an inch or two the front
wheel of a tremendous motor-bus on his right. He gave a nervous giggle
as he flashed by the high red side of the motor-bus; and then he
deliberately looked back at the murderous boy, who had jumped up. At the
same moment George was brought to a sense of his own foolishness in
looking back by a heavy jolt. He had gone over half a creosoted wood
block which had somehow escaped from a lozenge-shaped oasis in the road
where two workmen were indolently using picks under the magic protection
of a tiny, dirty red flag. Secure in the guardianship of the bit of
bunting, which for them was as powerful and sacred as the flag of an
empire, the two workmen gazed with indifference at George and at the
deafening traffic which swirled affronting but harmless around them.
George slackened speed, afraid lest the jar might have snapped the
plates of his accumulator. The motor-bicycle was a wondrous thing, but
as capricious and delicate as a horse. For a trifle, for nothing at all,
it would cease to function. The high-tension magneto and the float-feed
carburetter, whose invention was to transform the motor-bicycle from an
everlasting harassment into a means of loco-motion, were yet years away
in the future. However, the jar had done no harm. The episode, having
occupied less than ten seconds, was closed. George felt his heart
thumping. He thought suddenly of the recent Paris-Madrid automobile
race, in which the elite of the world had perished. He saw himself
beneath the motor-bus, and a futile staring crowd round about. Simply by
a miracle was he alive. But this miracle was only one of a score of
miracles. He believed strongly in luck. He had always believed in it.
The smoke of the cigarette displayed his confidence to all Piccadilly.
Still, his heart was thumping.

And it had not ceased to thump when a few minutes later he turned into
Manresa Road. Opposite the entrance to the alley of Romney Studios,
there happened to be a small hiatus in the kerbstone. George curved the
machine largely round and, mounting the pavement through this hiatus,
rode gingerly up the alley, in defiance of the regulations of a great
city, and stopped precisely at the door of No. 6. It was a matter of
honour with him to arrive thus. Not for a million would he have walked
the machine up the alley. He got off, sounded a peremptory call on the
horn, and tattooed with the knocker. No answer came. An apprehension
visited him. By the last post on the previous night he had received a
special invitation to breakfast from Marguerite. Never had he been kept
waiting at the door. He knocked again. Then he heard a voice from the
side of the studio:

"Come round here, George."

In the side of the studio was a very small window from which the girls,
when unpresentable, would parley with early tradesmen. Agg was at the
window. He could see only her head and neck, framed by the window. Her
short hair was tousled, and she held a dressing-gown tight about her
neck. For the first time she seemed to him like a real feminine girl,
and her tones were soft as they never were when Marguerite was present
with her.

"I'm very sorry," she said. "You woke me. I was fast asleep. You can't
come in."

"Anything up?" he questioned, rather anxiously. "Where's Marguerite?"

"Oh, George! A dreadful night!" she answered, almost plaintively, almost
demanding sympathy from the male--she, Agg! "We were wakened up at two
o'clock. Mr. Prince came round to fetch Marguerite to go to No. 8."

"To go to No. 8?" he repeated, frightened, and wondered why he should be
frightened. "What on earth for?"

"Mrs. Haim very ill!" Agg paused. "Something about a baby."

"And did she go?"

"Yes; she put on her things and went off at once."

He was silent. He felt the rough grip of destiny, of some strange power
irresistible and unescapable, just as he had momentarily felt it in the
basement of No. 8 more than eighteen months before, when the outraged
Mr. Haim had quarrelled with him. The mere idea of Marguerite being at
No. 8 made him feel sick. He no longer believed in his luck. "How soon
d'ye think she'll be back?"

"I--I don't know, George. I should have thought she'd have been back
before this."

"I'll run round there," he said curtly.

Agg was disconcertingly, astoundingly sympathetic. Her attitude
increased his disturbance.


II


When George rang the bell at No. 8 Alexandra Grove his mysterious qualms
were intensified. He dreaded the moment when the door should open, even
though it should be opened by Marguerite herself. And yet he had a
tremendous desire to see Marguerite--merely to look at her face, to
examine it, to read it. His summons was not answered. He glanced about.
The steps were dirty. The brass knob and the letter-flap had not been
polished. After a time he pushed up the flap and gazed within, and saw
the interior which he knew so well and which he had not entered for so
many months. Nothing was changed in it, but it also had a dusty and
neglected air. Every detail roused his memory. The door of what had once
been his room was shut; he wondered what the room was now. This house
held the greatest part of his history. It lived in his mind as vitally
as even the boarding-house kept by his mother in a side-street in
Brighton, romantic and miserable scene of his sensitive childhood. It
was a solemn house for him. Through the basement window on a dark night
he had first glimpsed Marguerite. Unforgettable event! Unlike anything
else that had ever happened to anybody!... He heard a creak, and caught
sight through the letter-aperture of a pair of red slippers, and then
the lower half of a pair of trousers, descending the stairs. And he
dropped the flap hurriedly. Mr. Haim was coming to open the door. Mr.
Haim did open the door, started at the apparition of George, and stood
defensively and forbiddingly in the very centre of the doorway.

"Oh!" said George nervously. "How is Mrs. Haim?"

"Mrs. Haim is very ill indeed." The reply was emphatic and inimical.

"I'm sorry."

Mr. Haim said nothing further. George had not seen him since the
previous Saturday, having been excused by Mr. Enwright from the office
on Monday on account of examination work. He did not know that Mr. Haim
had not been to the office on Monday either. In the interval the man had
shockingly changed. He seemed much older, and weaker too; he seemed worn
out by acute anxiety. Nevertheless he so evidently resented sympathy
that George was not sympathetic, and regarded him coldly as a tiresome
old man. The official relations between the two had been rigorously
polite and formal. No reference had ever been made by either to the
quarrel in the basement or to the cause of it. And for the world in
general George's engagement had remained as secret as before. Marguerite
had not seen her father in the long interval, and George had seen only
the factotum of Lucas & Enwright. But he now saw Marguerite's father
again--a quite different person from the factotum.... Strange, how the
house seemed forlorn! 'Something about a baby,' Agg had said vaguely.
And it was as though something that Mr. Haim and his wife had concealed
had burst from its concealment and horrified and put a curse on the
whole Grove. Something not at all nice! What in the name of decent
propriety was that slippered old man doing with a baby? George would not
picture to himself Mrs. Haim lying upstairs. He did not care to think of
Marguerite secretly active somewhere in one of those rooms. But she was
there; she was initiated. He did not criticize her.

"I should like to see Marguerite," he said at length. Despite himself he
had a guilty feeling.

"My daughter!" Mr. Haim took up the heavy rôle.

"Only for a minute," said George boyishly, and irritated by his own
boyishness.

"You can't see her, sir."

"But if she knows I'm here, she'll come to me," George insisted. He saw
that the old man's hatred of him was undiminished. Indeed, time had
probably strengthened it.

"You can't see her, sir. This is my house."

George considered himself infinitely more mature than in the November of
1901 when the old man had worsted him. And yet he was no more equal to
this situation than he had been to the former one.

"But what am I to do, then?" he demanded, not fiercely, but crossly.

"What are you to do? Don't ask me, sir. My wife is very ill indeed, and
you come down the Grove making noise enough to wake the dead"--he
indicated the motor-bicycle, of which the silencer was admittedly
defective--"and you want to see my daughter. My daughter has more
important work to do than to see you. I never heard of such callousness.
If you want to communicate with my daughter you had better write--so
long as she stays in this house."

Mr. Haim shut the door, which rendered his advantage over George
complete.

From the post office nearly opposite the end of the Grove George
dispatched a reply-paid telegram to Marguerite:

"Where and when can I see you?--GEORGE. Russell Square."

It seemed a feeble retort to Mr. Haim, but he could think of nothing
better.

On the way up town he suddenly felt, not hungry, but empty, and he
called in at a tea-shop. He was the only customer, in a great expanse of
marble-topped tables. I afterwards found he _was_; but I think she
laught more than there was neede.

We have ever been considered a sufficientlie religious Familie: that is,
we goe regularly to Church on Sabbaths and Prayer-dayes, and keepe
alle the Fasts and Festivalles. But Mr. _Milton's_ Devotion hath attayned
a Pitch I can neither imitate nor even comprehende. The spirituall World
seemeth to him not onlie reall, but I may almoste say visible. For
instance, he told _Rose_, it appears, that on _Tuesday_ Nighte, (that
is the same Evening I had promised to be his,) as he went homewards
to his Farm-lodging, he fancied the Angels whisperinge in his Eares, and
singing over his Head, and that instead of going to his Bed like a
reasonable Being, he lay down on the Grass, and gazed on the sweete,
pale Moon till she sett, and then on the bright Starres till he
seemed to see them moving in a slowe, solemn Dance, to the Words,
"_How glorious is our God!_" And alle about him, he said, he _knew_,
tho' he coulde not see them, were spirituall Beings repairing the Ravages
of the Day on the Flowers, amonge the Trees, and Grasse, and Hedges; and
he believed 'twas onlie the Filme that originall Sin had spread over
his Eyes, that prevented his seeing them. I am thankful for this same
Filme,--I cannot abide Fairies, and Witches, and Ghosts--ugh! I shudder
even to write of them; and were it onlie of the more harmlesse Sort, one
woulde never have the Comforte of thinkinge to be alone. I feare
Churchyardes and dark Corners of alle Kinds; more especiallie
Spiritts; and there is onlie one I would even wish to see at my bravest,
when deepe Love casteth out Feare; and that is of Sister _Anne_, whome
I never associate with the Worme and Winding-sheete. Oh no!

I think _she_, at leaste, dwells amonge the Starres, having sprung
straite up into Lighte and Blisse the Moment she put off Mortalitie;
and if she, why not others?

Are _Adam_ and _Abraham_ alle these Yeares in the unconscious Tomb?

Theire Bodies, but surelie not their Spiritts?

else, why dothe _Christ_ speak of _Lazarus_ lying in _Abraham's_
Bosom, while the Brothers of _Dives_ are yet riotouslie living? Yet what
becomes of the Daye of generall Judgment, if some be thus pre-judged? I
must aske Mr. _Milton,--_yes, I thinke I can finde it in my Heart to
aske him about this in some solemn, stille Hour, and perhaps he
will sett at Rest manie Doubts and Misgivings that at sundrie Times
trouble me; being soe wise a Man.

_Bedtime_.

. . .

Glad to steale away from the noisie Companie in the Supper-roome,
(comprising some of _Father's_ Fellow-magistrates,) I went down with
_Robin_ and _Kate_ to the Fish-ponds; it was scarce Sunset: and
there, while we threw Crumbs to the Fish and watched them come to
the Surface, were followed, or ever we were aware, by Mr. _Milton_,
who sate down on the stone Seat, drew _Robin_ between his Knees, stroked
his Haire, and askt what we were talking about.

_Robin_ sayd I had beene telling them a fairie Story; and Mr. _Milton_
observed that was an infinite Improvement on the jangling,
puzzle-headed Prating of Country Justices, and wished I woulde tell
it agayn.

But I was afrayd. But _Robin_ had no Feares; soe tolde the Tale roundlie;
onlie he forgot the End. Soe he found his Way backe to the Middle,
and seemed likelie to make it last alle Night; onlie Mr. _Milton_
sayd he seemed to have got into the Labyrinth of _Crete_, and he must
for Pitie's Sake give him the Clew.
Soe he finished _Robin's_ Story, and then tolde another, a
most lovelie one, of Ladies, and Princes, and Enchanters, and a brazen
Horse, and he sayd the End of _that_ Tale had been cut off too,
by Reason the Writer had died before he finished it.

But _Robin_ cryed, "Oh! finish this too," and hugged and kist him; soe
he did; and methoughte the End was better than the Beginninge.

Then he sayd, "Now, sweet _Moll_, you have onlie spoken this Hour past,
by your Eyes; and we must heare your pleasant Voice." "An Hour?" cries
_Robin_. "Where are alle the red Clouds gone, then?" quoth Mr.
_Milton_, "and what Business hathe the Moon yonder?" "Then we must go
Indoors," quoth I. But they cried "No," and _Robin_ helde me fast, and
Mr. Milton sayd I might know even by the distant Sounds of ill-governed
Merriment that we were winding up the Week's Accounts of Joy and Care
more consistentlie where we were than we coulde doe in the House. And
indeede just then I hearde my _Father's_ Voice swelling a noisie
Chorus; and hoping Mr. _Milton_ did not distinguish it, I askt him
if he loved Musick. He answered, soe much that it was Miserie for him
to hear anie that was not of the beste. I secretlie resolved he should
never heare mine. He added, he was come of a musicalle Familie, and
that his Father not onlie sang well, but played finely on the Viol
and Organ. Then he spake of the sweet Musick in _Italy_, until I longed
to be there; but I tolde him nothing in its Way ever pleased me
more than to heare the Choristers of _Magdalen_ College usher in _May_
Day by chaunting a Hymn at the Top of the Church Towre. Discoursing of
this and that, we thus sate a good While ere we returned to the
House.

. . . Coming out of Church he woulde shun the common Field, where the
Villagery led up theire Sports, saying, he deemed Quoit-playing and
the like to be unsuitable Recreations on a Daye whereupon the _Lord_
had restricted us from speakinge our own Words, and thinking our own (that
is, secular) Thoughts: and that he believed the Law of _God_ in
this Particular woulde soone be the Law of the Land, for Parliament
woulde shortlie put down _Sunday_ Sports. I askt, "What, the _King's_
Parliament at _Oxford_?" He answered, "No; _the Country's_ Parliament
at _Westminster_." I sayd, I was sorrie, for manie poore hard-working
Men had no other Holiday.

He sayd, another Holiday woulde be given them; and that whether or
no, we must not connive at Evil, which we doe in permitting an _holy
Daye_ to sink into a Holiday. I sayd, but was it not the _Jewish_
Law, which had made such Restrictions?

He sayd, yes, but that _Christ_ came not to destroy the moral Law,
of which Sabbath-keeping was a Part, and that even its naturall
Fitnesse for the bodily Welfare of Man and Beast was such as no
wise Legislator would abolish or abuse it, even had he no Consideration
for our spiritual and immortal Part: and that 'twas a well-known
Fact that Beasts of Burthen, which had not one Daye of Rest in
seven, did lesse Worke in the End.

As for oure Soules, he sayd, they required theire spiritual Meales
as much as our Bodies required theires; and even poore, rusticall
Clownes who coulde not reade, mighte nourish their better Parts by
an holie Pause, and by looking within them, and around them, and
above them.

I felt inclined to tell him that long Sermons alwaies seemed to
make me love _God_ less insteade of more, but woulde not, fearing
he mighte take it that I meant _he_ had been giving me one.

_Monday_.

_Mother_ hath returned! The Moment I hearde her Voice I fell to
trembling. At the same Moment I hearde _Robin_ cry, "Oh, _Mother_, I
have broken the greene Beaker!" which betraied Apprehension in another
Quarter. However, she quite mildlie replied, "Ah, I knew the Handle
was loose," and then kist me with soe great Affection that I felt
quite easie.

She had beene withhelde by a troublesome Colde from returning at
the appointed Time, and cared not to write.

'Twas just Supper-time, and there were the Children to kiss and to
give theire Bread and Milk, and _Bill's_ Letter to reade; soe that nothing
particular was sayd till the younger Ones were gone to Bed, and _Father_
and _Mother_ were taking some Wine and Toast.

Then says _Father_, "Well, Wife, have you got the five hundred Pounds?"
"No," she answers, rather carelesslie.

"I tolde you how 'twoulde be," says _Father_; "you mighte as well
have stayed at Home."

"Really, Mr. _Powell,"_ says _Mother_, "soe seldom as I stir from
my owne Chimney-corner, you neede not to grudge me, I think, a few
Dayes among our mutuall Relatives."

"I shall goe to Gaol," says _Father_.

"Nonsense," says _Mother_; "to Gaol indeed!"

"Well, then, who is to keepe me from it?"

says _Father_, laughing. "I will answer for it, Mr.

_Milton_ will wait a little longer for his Money," says _Mother_,
"he is an honourable Man, I suppose."

"I wish he may thinke me one," says _Father_; "and as to a little
longer, what is the goode of waiting for what is as unlikelie to come
eventuallie as now?" "You must answer that for yourselfe," says _Mother_,
looking wearie: "I have done what I can, and can doe no more."
"Well, then, 'tis lucky Matters stand as they do," says _Father_.

"Mr.

_Milton_ has been much here in your Absence, my Dear, and has taken
a Liking to our _Moll_; soe, believing him, as you say, to be an
honourable Man, I have promised he shall have her."

"Nonsense," cries _Mother_, turning red and then pale. "Never
farther from Nonsense," says _Father_, "for 'tis to be, and by the
Ende of the Month too." "You are bantering me, Mr.
_Powell_," says _Mother_. "How can you suppose soe, my Deare?" says
_Father_, "you doe me Injustice." "Why, _Moll_!" cries _Mother_, turning
sharplie towards me, as I sate mute and fearfulle, "what is alle this,
Child? You cannot, you dare not think of wedding this round-headed Puritan."
"Not round-headed," sayd I, trembling; "his Haire is as long and curled
as mine." "Don't bandy Words with me, Girl," says _Mother_ passionatelie,
"see how unfit you are to have a House of your owne, who cannot
be left in Charge of your _Father's_ for a Fortnighte, without falling
into Mischiefe!"

"I won't have _Moll_ chidden in that Way," says _Father_, "she has
fallen into noe Mischiefe, and has beene a discreete and dutifull
Child."

"Then it has beene alle your doing," says _Mother_, "and you have
forced the Child into this Match."

"Noe Forcing whatever," says _Father_, "they like one another, and I am
very glad of it, for it happens to be very convenient."

"Convenient, indeed," repeats _Mother_, and falls a weeping. Thereon I
must needs weepe too, but she says, "Begone to Bed; there is noe
Neede that you shoulde sit by to heare your owne _Father_ confesse
what a Fool he has beene."

To my Bedroom I have come, but cannot yet seek my Bed; the more as I
still heare theire Voices in Contention below.

_Tuesday_.

This Morninge's Breakfaste was moste uncomfortable, I feeling like
a checkt Child, scarce minding to looke up or to eat.

_Mother_, with Eyes red and swollen, scarce speaking save to the
Children; _Father_ directing his Discourse chieflie to _Dick_,
concerning Farm Matters and the Rangership of _Shotover_, tho' 'twas
easie to see his Mind was not with them.

Soe soone as alle had dispersed to theire customed Taskes, and I was
loitering at the Window, _Father_ calls aloud to me from his Studdy.

Thither I go, and find him and _Mother_, she sitting with her Back to
both. "_Moll_," says _Father_, with great Determination, "you have
accepted Mr. _Milton_ to please yourself, you will marry him out
of hand to please me."

"Spare me, spare me, Mr. _Powell_," interrupts _Mother_, "if the
Engagement may not be broken off, at the least precipitate it not
with this indecent haste.

Postpone it till----" "Till when?" says _Father_.

"Till the Child is olde enough to know her owne Mind."

"That is, to put off an honourable Man on false Pretences," says _Father_,
"she is olde enough to know it alreadie.
Speake, _Moll_, are you of your _Mother's_ Mind to give up Mr.

_Milton_ altogether?" I trembled, but sayd, "No." "Then, as his Time is
precious, and he knows not when he may leave his Home agayn, I save
you the Trouble, Child, of naming a Day, for it shall be the _Monday_
before _Whitsuntide_." Thereat _Mother_ gave a Kind of Groan; but as
for me, I had like to have fallen on the Ground, for I had had noe
Thought of suche Haste. "See what you are doing, Mr. _Powell_," says
_Mother_, compassionating me, and raising me up, though somewhat roughlie;
"I prophecie Evil of this Match." "Prophets of Evil are sure to find
Listeners," says _Father_, "but I am not one of them;" and soe left
the Room. Thereon my _Mother_, who alwaies feares him when he has a
Fit of Determination, loosed the Bounds of her Passion, and chid me so
unkindlie, that, humbled and mortified, I was glad to seeke my
Chamber.

. . .

Entering the Dining-room, however, I uttered a Shriek on seeing
_Father_ fallen back in his Chair, as though in a Fit, like unto
that which terrified us a Year ago; and _Mother_ hearing me call
out, ran in, loosed his Collar, and soone broughte him to himselfe,
tho' not without much Alarm to alle.

He made light of it himselfe, and sayd 'twas merelie a suddain Rush of
Blood to the Head, and woulde not be dissuaded from going out; but
_Mother_ was playnly smote at the Heart, and having lookt after him
with some anxietie, exclaimed, "I shall neither meddle nor make
more in this Businesse: your _Father's_ suddain Seizures shall never
be layd at my Doore;" and soe left me, till we met at Dinner.

After the Cloth was drawne, enters Mr. _Milton_, who goes up to
_Mother_, and with Gracefulnesse kisses her Hand; but she withdrewe
it pettishly, and tooke up her Sewing, on the which he lookt at her
wonderingly, and then at me; then at her agayne, as though he woulde
reade her whole Character in her Face; which having seemed to doe,
and to write the same in some private Page of his Heart, he never
troubled her or himself with further Comment, but tooke up Matters
just where he had left them last.

Ere we parted we had some private Conference touching our Marriage,
for hastening which he had soe much to say that I coulde not long
contend with him, especiallie as I founde he had plainlie made out
that _Mother_ loved him not.

_Wednesday_.

House full of Companie, leaving noe Time to write nor think. _Mother_
sayth, tho' she cannot forbode an happie Marriage, she will provide for
a merrie Wedding, and hathe growne more than commonlie tender to
me, and given me some Trinkets, a Piece of fine _Holland_ Cloth,
and enoughe of green Sattin for a Gown, that will stand on End with
its owne Richnesse.

She hathe me constantlie with her in the Kitchen, Pastrie, and Store-room,
telling me 'tis needfulle I shoulde improve in Housewiferie, seeing
I shall soe soone have a Home of my owne.

But I think _Mother_ knows not, and I am afeard to tell her, that Mr.

_Milton_ hath no House of his owne to carry me to, but onlie Lodgings,
which have well suited his Bachelor State, but may not, 'tis likelie,
beseeme a Lady to live in.

He deems so himself, and sayeth we will look out for an hired House
together, at our Leisure.

Alle this he hath sayd to me in an Undertone, in _Mother's_ Presence,
she sewing at the Table and we sitting in the Window; and 'tis
difficult to tell how much she hears, she for will aske no Questions,
and make noe Comments, onlie compresses her Lips, which makes me
think she knows.

The Children are in turbulent Spiritts; but _Robin_ hath done nought
but mope and make Moan since he learnt he must soe soone lose me.

A Thought hath struck me,--Mr.

_Milton_ educates his Sister's Sons; two Lads of about _Robin's_ Age.

What if he woulde consent to take my Brother under his Charge?

perhaps _Father_ woulde be willing.

_Saturday_.

Last Visitt to _Sheepscote,--_at leaste, as _Mary Powell_; but kind _Rose_
and _Roger Agnew_ will give us the Use of it for a Week on our Marriage,
and spend the Time with dear _Father_ and _Mother_, who will neede their
Kindnesse. _Rose_ and I walked long aboute the Garden, her Arm round
my Neck; and she was avised to say,
"Cloth of Frieze, be not too bold, Tho' thou be matcht with Cloth of
Gold,--"
And then craved my Pardon for soe unmannerly a Rhyme, which
indeede, methoughte, needed an Excuse, but exprest a Feare that I knew
not (what she called) my high Destiny, and prayed me not to trifle with
Mr.
_Milton's_ Feelings nor in his Sighte, as I had done the Daye she dined
at _Forest Hill_. I laught, and sayd, he must take me as he found me:

he was going to marry _Mary Powell_, not the _Wise Widow of Tekoah_.

_Rose_ lookt wistfullie, but I bade her take Heart, for I doubted not we
shoulde content eache the other; and for the Rest, her Advice shoulde
not be forgotten. Thereat, she was pacyfied.

_May 22d, 1643_.

Alle Bustle and Confusion,--slaying of Poultrie, making of Pastrie, etc.
People coming and going, prest to dine and to sup, and refuse, and then
stay, the colde Meats and Wines ever on the Table; and in the
Evening, the Rebecks and Recorders sent for that we may dance in
the Hall.

My Spiritts have been most unequall; and this Evening I was overtaken
with a suddain Faintnesse, such as I never but once before experienced.
They would let me dance no more; and I was quite tired enoughe to be
glad to sit aparte with Mr. _Milton_ neare the Doore, with the Moon
shining on us; untill at length he drew me out into the Garden. He spake
of Happinesse and Home, and Hearts knit in Love, and of heavenlie
Espousals, and of Man being the Head of the Woman, and of our _Lord's_
Marriage with the Church, and of white Robes, and the Bridegroom
coming in Clouds of Glory, and of the Voices of singing Men and singing
Women, and eternall Spring, and eternall Blisse, and much that I cannot
call to Mind, and other-much that I coulde not comprehende, but
which was in mine ears as the Song of Birds, or Falling of Waters.

_May 23d, 1643_.

_Rose_ hath come, and hath kindlie offered to help pack the Trunks,
(which are to be sent off by the Waggon to _London_,) that I may
have the more Time to devote to Mr.

_Milton_. Nay, but he will soon have all my Time devoted to himself,
and I would as lief spend what little remains in mine accustomed Haunts,
after mine accustomed Fashion. I had purposed a Ride on _Clover_ this
Morning, with _Robin_; but the poor Boy must I trow be disappointed.

----And for what? Oh me! I have hearde such a long Sermon on Marriage-duty
and Service, that I am faine to sit down and weepe. But no,
I must not, for they are waiting for me in the Hall, and the Guests
are come and the Musick is tuning, and my Lookes must not betray
me.--And now farewell, _Journall_; for _Rose_, who first bade me keepe
you (little deeming after what Fashion), will not pack you up, and I
will not close you with a heavie Strayn.

_Robin_ is calling me beneath the Window,--_Father_ is sitting in
the Shade, under the old Pear-tree, seemingly in gay Discourse with
Mr.

_Milton_. To-morrow the Village-bells will ring for the Marriage of
MARY POWELL.

_London, Mr. Russell's, Taylor, Bride's Churchyard_.

Oh Heaven!

is this my new Home? my Heart sinkes alreadie. After the swete
fresh Ayre of _Sheepscote_, and the Cleanliness, and the Quiet and
the pleasant Smells, Sightes, and Soundes, alle whereof Mr.

_Milton_ enjoyed to the Full as keenlie as I, saying they minded
him of _Paradise,--_how woulde _Rose_ pitie me, could she view me
in this close Chamber, the Floor whereof of dark, uneven Boards,
must have beene layd, methinks, three hundred Years ago; the oaken
Pannells, utterlie destitute of Polish and with sundrie Chinks; the
Bed with dull brown Hangings, lined with as dull a greene, occupying
Half the Space; and Half the Remainder being filled with dustie
Books, whereof there are Store alsoe in every other Place.

This Mirror, I should thinke, belonged to faire _Rosamond_.

And this Arm-chair to King _Lew_. Over the Chimnie hangs a ruefull
Portrait,--maybe of _Grotius_, but I shoulde sooner deeme it of some
Worthie before the Flood. Onlie one Quarter of the Casement will
open, and that upon a Prospect, oh dolefulle! of the Churchyarde!
Mr. _Milton_ had need be as blythe as he was all the Time we were at
_Sheepscote_, or I shall be buried in that same Churchyarde within
the Twelvemonth. 'Tis well he has stepped out to see a Friend, that I may
in his Absence get ridd of this Fit of the Dismalls. I wish it may
be the last. What would _Mother_ say to his bringing me to such a Home
as this? I will not think. Soe this is _London_! How diverse from
the "towred Citie" of my Husband's versing!
She preceded the other three into the
restaurant, where electricity had finally conquered the expiring
daylight, and her entry obviously excited the whole room; yet, guided by
two waving and fawning waiters, and a hundred glances upon her, she
walked to the appointed table without a trace of self-consciousness--as
naturally as a policeman down a street. When she sat down, George on her
right, Lucas on her left, and the tall, virginal Laurencine Ingram
opposite, she was the principal person in the restaurant. George had
already passed from disappointment to an impressed nervousness. The
inquisitive diners might all have been quizzing him instead of Irene
Wheeler. He envied Lucas, who was talking freely to both Miss Wheeler
and Laurencine about what he had ordered for dinner. That morning over a
drawing-board and an architectural problem, Lucas had been humble enough
to George, and George by natural right had laid the law down to Lucas;
but now Lucas, who--George was obliged to admit--never said anything
brilliant or original, was outshining him.... It was unquestionable that
in getting Irene Wheeler to dinner, Lucas, by some mysterious talent
which he possessed, had performed a feat greater even than George had at
first imagined--a prodigious feat.

George waited for Irene Wheeler to begin to talk. She did not begin to
talk. She was content with the grand function of existing. Lucas showed
her the portrait in the illustrated paper, which he had kept. She said
that it was comparatively an old one, and had been taken at the Durbar
in January. "Were you at the Durbar?" asked the simpleton George. Irene
Wheeler looked at him. "Yes. I was in the Viceroy's house-party," she
answered mildly. And then she said to Lucas that she had sat three times
to photographers that week--"They won't leave me alone"--but that the
proofs were none of them satisfactory. At this Laurencine Ingram boldly
and blushingly protested, maintaining that one of them was lovely.
George was attracted to Laurencine, in whom he saw no likeness to her
sister Lois. She could not long have left school. She was the product
finished for the world; she had been taught everything that was
considered desirable--even to the art of talking easily and yet
virginally on all subjects at table; and she was a nice, honest,
handsome girl, entirely unspoilt by the mysterious operations practised
upon her. She related how she had been present when a famous
photographer arrived at Miss Wheeler's flat with his apparatus, and what
the famous photographer had said. The boys laughed. Miss Wheeler smiled
faintly. "I'm glad we didn't have to go to that play to-night," she
remarked, quitting photography. "However, I shall have to go to-morrow
night. And I don't care for first nights in London, only they will have
me go." In this last phrase, and in the intonation of it, was the first
sign she had given of her American origin; her speech was usually
indistinguishable from English English, which language she had in fact
carefully acquired years earlier. George gathered that Lucas's success
in getting Miss Wheeler to dinner was due to the accident of a first
night being postponed at the last moment and Miss Wheeler thus finding
herself with an empty evening. He covertly examined her. Why was the
feat of getting Miss Wheeler to dinner enormous? Why would photographers
not leave her alone? Why would theatrical managers have her accept boxes
gratis which they could sell for money? Why was she asked to join the
Viceregal party for the Durbar? Why was the restaurant agog? Why was he
himself proud and flattered--yes, proud and flattered--to be seen at the
same table with her?... She was excessively rich, no doubt; she was
reputed to be the niece of a railway man in Indianapolis who was one of
the major rivals of Harriman. She dressed superbly, perhaps too
superbly. But there were innumerable rich and well-dressed women on
earth. After all, she put her gold bag and her gloves down on the table
with just the same gesture as other women did; and little big Laurencine
had a gold bag too. She was not witty. He questioned whether she was
essentially kind. She was not young; her age was an enigma. She had not
a remarkable figure, nor unforgettable hair, nor incendiary eyes. She
seemed too placid and self-centred for love. If she had loved, it must
have been as she sat to photographers or occupied boxes on first
nights--because 'they' would have it so. George was baffled to discover
the origin of her prestige. He had to seek it in her complexion. Her
complexion was indubitably miraculous. He enjoyed looking at it, though
he lacked the experience to know that he was looking at a complexion
held by connoisseurs who do naught else but look at complexions to be a
complexion unique in Europe. George, unsophisticated, thought that the
unaffected simplicity--far exceeding self-confidence--with which she
acquiesced in her prestige was perhaps more miraculous than her
complexion. It staggered him.

The dinner was a social success. Irene Wheeler listened adroitly, if
without brilliance, and after one glass of wine George found himself
quite able to talk in the Enwright manner about architecture and the
profession of architecture, and also to talk about automobiles. The
casualness with which he mentioned his Final Examination was superb--the
examiners might have been respectfully waiting for him to arrive and
discomfit them. But of course the main subject was automobiles. Even
Laurencine knew the names of all the leading makers, and when the names
of all the leading makers had been enumerated and their products
discussed, the party seemed to think that it had accomplished something
that was both necessary and stylish. When the tablecloth had been
renewed, and the solemn moment came for Everard Lucas to order liqueurs,
George felt almost gay. He glanced round the gilded and mirrored
apartment, now alluringly animated by the subdued yet vivacious
intimacies of a score of white tables, and decided that the institution
of restaurants was a laudable and agreeable institution. Marguerite had
receded further than ever into the background of his mind; and as for
the Final, it had diminished to a formality.

"And you?" Everard asked Laurencine, after Miss Wheeler.

George had thought that Laurencine was too young for liqueurs. She had
had no wine. He expected her to say 'Nothing, thanks,' as conventionally
as if her late head mistress had been present. But she hesitated,
smiling, and then, obedient to the profound and universal instinct
which seems to guide all young women to the same liqueur, she said:

"May I have a _crême de menthe_? I've never had _crême de menthe_."

George was certainly shocked for an instant. But no one else appeared to
be shocked. Miss Wheeler, in charge of Laurencine, offered no protest.
And then George reflected: "And why not? Why shouldn't she have a _crême
de menthe_?" When Laurencine raised the tiny glass to her firm, large
mouth, George thought that the sight of the young virginal thing tasting
a liqueur was a fine and a beautiful sight.

"It's just heavenly!" murmured Laurencine ecstatically.

Miss Wheeler was gazing at George.

"What's the matter?" he demanded, smiling, and rested one elbow on the
table and looked enigmatically through the smoke of his cigar.

"I was just wondering about you," said Miss Wheeler. Her voice, always
faint, had dropped to a murmur which seemed to expire as it reached
George's ear.

"Why?" He was flattered.

"I've been wanting to see you."

"Really!" he laughed, rather too loudly. "What a pity I didn't know
earlier!" He was disturbed as well as flattered, for such a remark from
such a person as Irene Wheeler to such a person as himself was bound to
be disturbing. His eyes sought audaciously to commune with hers, but
hers were not responsive; they were entirely non-committal.

"You _are_ the man that wouldn't let my friend Lois drive him in my car,
aren't you?"

"Yes," he said defiantly, but rather guiltily. "Did she tell you about
that? It's an awful long time ago."

"She told me something about it."

"And you've remembered it all this long while!"

"Yes," she answered, and her thin, queer tone and her tepid, impartial
glance had the effect of a challenge to him to justify himself.

"And don't you think I was quite right?" he ventured.

"She drives very well." It was not the sort of answer he was expecting.
His desire was to argue.

"She didn't drive very well then," he said, with conviction.

"Was that a reason for your leaving her to drive home alone?"

Women were astounding!

"She ought to have let the chauffeur drive," he maintained.

"Ah! A man mustn't expect too much from a woman."

"But I was risking my life in that car! Do you mean to say I ought to
have kept on risking it?"

"I don't express any opinion on that. That was for you to decide.... You
must admit it was very humiliating for poor Lois."

He felt himself cornered, but whether justly or unjustly he was
uncertain.

"Was she vexed?"

"No, she wasn't vexed. Lois isn't the woman to be vexed. But I have an
idea she was a little hurt."

"Did she say so?"

"Say so? Lois? She'd never say anything against anybody. Lois is a
perfect angel.... Isn't she, Laurencine?"

Laurencine was being monopolized by Everard.

"What did you say?" the girl asked, collecting herself.

"I was just saying what an angel Lois is."

"Oh, she _is_!" the younger sister agreed, with immense and sincere
emphasis.

George, startled, said to himself suddenly:

"Was I mistaken in her? Some girls you _are_ mistaken in! They're
regular bricks, but they keep it from you at first."

Somehow, in spite of a slight superficial mortification, he was very
pleased by the episode of the conversation, and his curiosity was
titillated.

"Lois would have come to-night instead of Laurencine," Miss Wheeler went
on, "only she wasn't feeling very well."

"Is she in London? I've only seen her once from that day to this, and
then we didn't get near each other owing to the crush. So we didn't
speak. It was at Mrs. Orgreave's."

"Yes, I know."

"Did she tell you?"

"Yes."

"Is she at your flat?"

"Yes; but she's not well."

"Not in bed, I hope, or anything like that?"

"Oh no! She's not in bed."

Laurencine threw laughingly across the table:

"She's as well as I am."

It was another aspect of the younger sister.

When they left the restaurant it was nearly empty. They left easily,
slowly, magnificently. The largesse of Everard Lucas--his hat slightly
raked--in the foyer and at the portico was magnificent in both quantity
and manner. There was no need to hurry; the hour, though late for the
end of dinner, was early for separation. They moved and talked without
the slightest diffidence, familiar and confident; the whole world was
reformed and improved for them by the stimulus of food and alcohol. The
night was sultry and dark. The two women threw their cloaks back from
their shoulders, revealing the whiteness of toilettes. At the door the
head-lights of Miss Wheeler's automobile shot horizontally right across
Regent Street. The chauffeur recognized George, and George recognized
the car; he was rather surprised that Miss Wheeler had not had a new car
in eighteen months. Lucas spoke of his own car, which lay beyond in the
middle of the side-street like a ship at anchor. He spoke in such a
strain that Miss Wheeler deigned to ask him to drive her home in it. The
two young men went to light the head-lights. George noticed the angry
scowl on Everard's face when three matches had been blown out in the
capricious breeze. The success of the fourth match restored his face to
perfect benignity. He made the engine roar triumphantly, imperiously
sounded his horn, plunged forward, and drew the car up in front of Miss
Wheeler's. His bliss, when Miss Wheeler had delicately inserted herself
into the space by his side, was stern and yet radiant. The big car, with
George and Laurencine on board, followed the little one like a cat
following a mouse, and Laurencine girlishly interested herself in the
chase. George, with his mind on Lois, kept saying to himself: "She's
been thinking about that little affair ever since last November but one.
They've all been thinking about it." He felt apprehensive, but his
satisfaction amounted to excitement. His attitude was: "At any rate I
gave them something to think about!" Also he breathed appreciatively the
atmosphere of the three women--two seen and one unseen. How
extraordinarily different all of them were from Agg! They reminded him
acutely of his deep need of luxury. After all, the life lived by those
two men about town, George and Everard, was rather humdrum and
monotonous. In spite of Everard's dash, and in spite of George's secret
engagement, neither of them met enough women or enough sorts of women.
George said to himself: "I shall see her to-night. We shall go up to the
flat. She isn't in bed. I shall see her to-night." He wanted to see her
because he had hurt her, and because she had remembered and had talked
about him and had raised curiosity about him in others. Was she really
unwell? Or had she been excusing herself! Was she an angel? He wanted to
see her again in order to judge for himself whether she was an angel. If
Laurencine said she was an angel she must be an angel. Laurencine was a
jolly, honest girl. To be in the car with her was agreeable. But she was
insipid. So he assessed the splendidly budding Laurencine, patronizing
her a little. Miss Wheeler gave him pause. Her simple phrases had
mysterious intonations. He did not understand her glance. He could not
settle the first question about her--her age. She might be very wicked;
certainly she could be very ruthless. And he had no hold over her. He
could give her nothing that she wanted. He doubted whether any man
could.

"Have you been in London long?" he asked Laurencine.

"A week," she said. "I came over with Miss Wheeler. I didn't think
mother would let me, but she did."

"And did your sister come with you?"

"No; Lois only came yesterday."

"By herself?"

"Yes."

"I suppose you go about a lot?"

"Oh, we _do_ It's such a change from Paris."

"Well, I should prefer Paris."

"You wouldn't! London's much more romantic. Paris is so hard and
matter-of-fact."

"So's London."

She squirmed about lissomly on the seat.

"You don't know what I mean," she said. "I never _can_ make people see
what I mean--about anything."

He smiled indulgently and dropped the point.

The campaign which Lincoln began with this letter was in every way
more exciting for him than those of 1832 and 1834.

Since the last election a census had been taken in Illinois which
showed so large an increase in the population that the legislative
districts had been reapportioned and the General Assembly increased
by fifty members.

In this reapportionment Sangamon County's delegation had been
enlarged to seven representatives and two senators.

This gave large new opportunity to political ambition, and doubled the
enthusiasm of political meetings.

But the increase of the representation was not all that made the
campaign exciting. Party lines had never before been so clearly drawn,
nor personal abuse quite so intense.

One of Lincoln's first acts was to answer a personal attack. He did it
in a letter marked by candor, good-humor, and shrewdness.

"NEW SALEM, _June 21, 1836_.

"DEAR COLONEL:

"I am told that during my absence last week you passed through the
place and stated publicly that you were in possession of a fact or facts
which, if known to the public, would entirely destroy the prospects
of N.W. Edwards and myself at the ensuing election; but that through favor
to us you would forbear to divulge them. No one has needed favors more
than I, and generally few have been less unwilling to accept them;
but in this case favor to me would be injustice to the public, and
therefore I must beg your pardon for declining it.

That I once had the confidence of the people of Sangamon County is
sufficiently evident; and if I have done anything, either by design
or misadventure, which if known would subject me to a forfeiture
of that confidence, he that knows of that thing and conceals it is
a traitor to his country's interest.

"I find myself wholly unable to form any conjecture of what fact or
facts, real or supposed, you spoke; but my opinion of your veracity
will not permit me for a moment to doubt that you at least believed what
you said. I am flattered with the personal regard you manifested for me;
but I do hope that on mature reflection you will view the public
interest as a paramount consideration and therefore let the worst
come.

"I assure you that the candid statement of facts on your part,
however low it may sink me, shall never break the ties of personal
friendship between us.

"I wish an answer to this, and you are at liberty to publish both if
you choose.

"Very respectfully, "A. LINCOLN."
"COLONEL ROBERT ALLEN."
Usually during the campaign Lincoln was obliged to meet personal
attacks, not by letter, but on the platform. Joshua Speed, who later
became the most intimate friend that Lincoln probably ever had, tells of
one occasion when he was obliged to meet such an attack on the very
spur of the moment. A great mass-meeting was in progress at Springfield,
and Lincoln had made a speech which had produced a deep impression.
"I was then fresh from Kentucky," says Mr. Speed, "and had heard many
of her great orators. It seemed to me then, as it seems to me now, that
I never heard a more effective speaker. He carried the crowd with him,
and swayed them as he pleased. So deep an impression did he make that
George Forquer, a man of much celebrity as a sarcastic speaker
and with a great reputation throughout the State as an orator, rose and
asked the people to hear _him_.

He began his speech by saying that this young man would have to be taken
down, and he was sorry that the task devolved upon him. He made what was
called one of his 'slasher-gaff' speeches, dealing much in ridicule and
sarcasm. Lincoln stood near him, with his arms folded, never interrupting
him. When Forquer was done, Lincoln walked to the stand, and replied
so fully and completely that his friends bore him from the court-house
on their shoulders.

"So deep an impression did this first speech make upon me that I remember
its conclusion now, after a lapse of thirty-eight years. Said he:

"'The gentleman commenced his speech by saying that this young man
would have to be taken down, and he was sorry the task devolved upon
him. I am not so young in years as I am in the tricks and trade of a
politician; but live long or die young, I would rather die now than,
like the gentleman, change my politics and simultaneous with the change
receive an office worth three thousand dollars a year, and then have to
erect a lightning-rod over my house to protect a guilty conscience from
an offended God.'
"To understand the point of this it must be explained that Forquer had
been a Whig, but had changed his politics, and had been appointed
Register of the Land Office; and over his house was the only lightning-rod
in the town or country. Lincoln had seen the lightning-rod for
the first time on the day before."
[Illustration: LINCOLN IN 1860.--HITHERTO UNPUBLISHED.

From a carbon enlargement, made by Sherman and McHugh of New York City,
of an ambrotype owned by Mr. A. Montgomery of Columbus, Ohio, to whose
generosity we owe the right of reproduction.

This portrait of Lincoln was made in June, 1860, by Butler, a Springfield
(Illinois) photographer. On July 4th of that year, Mr. Lincoln delivered
an address at Atlanta, Illinois, where he was the guest of Mr.
Vester Strong. Before leaving town he handed Mr. Strong the ambrotype
which we copy here. Mr. Strong valued the picture highly, but as he had
no children to whom to leave it, and as he wished it to be in the care
of one who would appreciate its value, he gave it a few years ago
to Mr.

Montgomery.]
This speech has never been forgotten in Springfield, and on my visits
there I have repeatedly had the site of the house on which this particular
lightning-rod was placed pointed out, and one or another of the many
versions which the story has been given, related to me.

It was the practice at that date in Illinois for two rival candidates
to travel over the district together. The custom led to much good-natured
raillery between them; and in such contests Lincoln was rarely, if
ever, worsted. He could even turn the generosity of his rival to account
by his whimsical treatment, as the following shows:
He had driven out from Springfield in company with a political opponent
to engage in joint debate. The carriage, it seems, belonged to his
opponent. In addressing the gathering of farmers that met them, Lincoln
was lavish in praise of the generosity of his friend. "I am too poor to
own a carriage," he said, "but my friend has generously invited me to
ride with him.

I want you to vote for me if you will; but if not, then vote for my opponent,
for he is a fine man." His extravagant and persistent praise of his
opponent appealed to the sense of humor in his farmer audience,
to whom Lincoln's inability to own a carriage was by no means a
disqualification.[1]
The election came off in August, and resulted in the choice of a
delegation from Sangamon County famous in the annals of Illinois.

The nine successful candidates were Abraham Lincoln, John Dawson,
Daniel Stone, Ninian W.

Edwards, William F.

Elkins, R.L.

Wilson, Andrew McCormick, Job Fletcher, and Arthur Herndon.

Each one of these men was over six feet in height, their combined
stature being, it is said, fifty-five feet. The "Long Nine" was the
name Sangamon County gave them.

[Illustration: EBENEZER PECK.

Ebenezer Peck, who was chiefly instrumental in introducing the convention
system into Illinois politics, was born in Portland, Maine, May 22, 1805.
He lived for some time in Peacham, Vermont, where he was educated.

While yet a boy, removed with his parents to Canada. He studied law at
Montreal, and practised there; became King's Counsel for Canada East,
and was finally elected to the provincial parliament on the Reform
ticket. In the summer of 1835 he removed to Chicago, and there, as a
lawyer and a politician, he at once made his mark. He was a delegate to
the first Democratic State convention in Illinois, held at Vandalia,
December 7, 1835, and was the chief advocate of the general adoption
of the convention system--a system which was at first opposed and
ridiculed by the Whigs, but which very soon they were forced to
adopt.

In 1837 Mr. Peck was made one of the Internal Improvement Commissioners.
In 1838 he was elected to the State Senate, and in 1840 to the
House.

He was clerk of the Supreme Court from 1841 to 1848, and reporter of that
court from 1849 to 1863.

His anti-slavery sentiments led him to abandon the Democratic party in
1853, and in 1856 he helped establish the Republican party in the
State. He was again elected to the legislature in 1858. In 1863 President
Lincoln appointed him a judge of the Court of Claims, and he held this
position until 1875. He died May 25, 1881.--_J. McCan Davis._]

LINCOLN IS ADMITTED TO THE BAR.

As soon as the election was over Lincoln occupied himself in settling
another matter, of much greater moment, in his own judgment.

He went to Springfield to seek admission to the bar. The "roll of attorneys
and counsellors at law," on file in the office of the clerk of the
Supreme Court at Springfield, Illinois, shows that his license was
dated September 9, 1836, and that the date of the enrollment of his
name upon the official list was March 1, 1837.

The first case in which he was concerned, as far as we know, was
that of Hawthorn against Woolridge.

He made his first appearance in court in October, 1836.

Although he had given much time during this year to politics and the
law, he had by no means abandoned surveying. Indeed he never had
more calls.

Surveying was particularly brisk at the moment, and he frequently
was obliged to be away for three and four weeks at a time, laying
out towns or locating roads.

"When he got a job," says the Hon.

J.M. Ruggles, a friend and political supporter of Mr. Lincoln, "there
was a picnic and jolly time in the neighborhood. Men and boys would
gather around, ready to carry chain, drive stakes, and blaze trees,
but mainly to hear Lincoln's odd stories and jokes.

The fun was interspersed with foot races and wrestling matches. To this
day the old settlers around Bath repeat the incidents of Lincoln's
sojourns in their neighborhood while surveying that town."

[Illustration: NINIAN W.

EDWARDS., JOB FLETCHER, SR., WILLIAM F. ELKINS., ROBERT L. WILSON., JOHN
DAWSON.

MEMBERS OF THE SANGAMON COUNTY DELEGATION IN THE TENTH ILLINOIS
ASSEMBLY--THE DELEGATION KNOWN AS THE "LONG NINE."

NINIAN W.

EDWARDS was born in Kentucky in 1809, a son of Ninian Edwards, who in
the same year was appointed Governor of the new Territory of Illinois.
Mr. Edwards was appointed Attorney-General of Illinois in 1834;
in 1836 was elected to the legislature; was reëlected in 1838;
served in the State Senate from 1844 to 1848, and again in the House
from 1848 to 1852. He was a member of the constitutional convention of
1847. He died at Springfield, September 2, 1889.

JOB FLETCHER, SR., was born in Virginia in 1793; removed to Sangamon
County, Illinois, in 1819.

In 1826 he was elected to the Illinois House of Representatives,
and in 1834 to the State Senate, where he served six years.

He died in Sangamon County in 1872.

WILLIAM F.

ELKINS was born in Kentucky in 1792. He went to Sangamon County,
Illinois, in 1825. In 1828, 1836, and 1838 he was elected to the
legislature. In 1831 he raised a company for the Black Hawk War, and
was its captain. In 1861 President Lincoln appointed him Register of
the United States Land Office at Springfield, an office which he held
until 1872, when he resigned. He died at Decatur, Illinois, 1880.

ROBERT LANG WILSON was born in Pennsylvania in 1805. In 1831 he went to
Kentucky; in 1833 removed to Sangamon County, Illinois; in 1836 was
elected to the Illinois House. He removed to Sterling, Illinois, in
1840, and died there in 1880. For some years he was paymaster in the
United States Army.

JOHN DAWSON was born in Virginia in 1791; he removed to Sangamon County,
Illinois, in 1827. He was elected to the lower house of the legislature
in 1830, 1834, 1836, 1838, and 1846. He was a member of the constitutional
convention of 1847. He died November 12, 1850.

The other members of the "Long Nine" were Abraham Lincoln, Daniel
Stone, Andrew McCormick, and Arthur Herndon.]

LINCOLN IN THE TENTH ASSEMBLY OF ILLINOIS
In December Lincoln put away his surveying instruments to go to
Vandalia for the opening session of the Tenth Assembly. Larger by fifty
members than its predecessor, this body was as much superior in intellect
as in numbers. It included among its members a future President of the
United States, a future candidate for the same high office, six future
United States Senators, eight future members of the National House of
Representatives, a future Secretary of the Interior, and three future
Judges of the State Supreme Court. Here sat side by side Abraham Lincoln
and Stephen A. Douglas; Edward Dickinson Baker, who represented at
different times the States of Illinois and Oregon in the national councils;
O.H. Browning, a prospective senator and future cabinet officer, and
William L.D. Ewing, who had just served in the senate; John Logan,
father of the late General John A.
Logan; Robert M. Cullom, father of Senator Shelby M. Cullom; John A.
McClernand, afterward member of Congress for many years, and a
distinguished general in the late Civil War; and many others of national
repute.[2]
[Illustration: ELIJAH PARISH LOVEJOY.

From a silhouette loaned by Mr. Owen Lovejoy of Princeton, Illinois.
Elijah Lovejoy was born in Maine in 1802. When twenty-five years old he
emigrated to St. Louis, where he at first did journalistic work on
a Whig newspaper. In 1833 he entered the ministry, and was soon
after made editor of a religious newspaper, the "St. Louis Observer."
Mr.
Lovejoy began, in 1835, to turn his paper against slavery, but the opposition
he found in Missouri was so strong that in the summer of 1836 he decided
to move his paper to Alton, Illinois. Before he could get his
plant out of St. Louis a mob destroyed the greater part. The remainder
he succeeded in getting to Alton, but a mob met it there and threw it
into the river. The citizens of Alton, ashamed of this act, gave Mr.
Lovejoy money to buy a new press. At first the tone of the paper was
moderate, but gradually it grew more emphatic in its utterances against
slavery. The pro-slavery element of the town protested, indignation
meetings were held, and in August, 1837, his press was thrown into
the river.

Another was immediately bought, which, in September, followed its
predecessor to the bottom of the Mississippi.

When it was known in Alton that Mr. Lovejoy had ordered a fourth press,
and had resolved to fight the opposition to the end, a public meeting
was called, at which many speeches were made on both sides, and he was
urged to leave Alton. This he refused to do, and his fourth press was
landed on November 6, 1837. The next night a mob attacked the
warehouse where it was placed, and in the riot one of the assailants,
Lyman Bishop, and Elijah Lovejoy himself were killed.]
The members came to Vandalia full of hope and exultation. In their
judgment it needed only a few months of legislation to put their
State by the side of New York; and from the opening of the session
they were overflowing with excitement and schemes.

In the general ebullition of spirits which characterized the Assembly,
Lincoln had little share.
Only a week after the opening of the session he wrote to a friend, Mary
Owens, at New Salem, that he had been ill, though he believed himself
to be about well then; and he added: "But that, with other things I
cannot account for, have conspired, and have gotten my spirits so low
that I feel I would rather be any place in the world than here. I really
cannot endure the thought of staying here ten weeks."

Though depressed, he was far from being inactive. The Sangamon delegation,
in fact, had their hands full, and to no one of the nine had more
been entrusted than to Lincoln.

In common with almost every delegation, they had been instructed
by their constituents to adopt a scheme of internal improvements
complete enough to give every budding town in Illinois easy
communication with the world.

This for the State in general; for Sangamon County in particular, they had
been directed to secure the capital. The change in the State's centre
of population made it advisable to move the seat of government northward
from Vandalia, and Springfield was anxious to secure it.

To Lincoln was entrusted the work of putting through the bill to remove
the capital.

In the same letter quoted from above he tells Miss Owens, "Our chance
to take the seat of government to Springfield is better than I expected."
Regarding the internal improvements scheme he feels less confident:
"Some of the legislature are for it, and some against; which has the
majority, I cannot tell."
[Illustration: LINCOLN IN 1863 OR 1864.

From a photograph by Brady, and kindly loaned by Mr. Noah Brooks for
this reproduction.]
[Illustration: Frontispiece of "Alton Trials," a small volume published
in 1838, containing full notes taken at the time of the trial of
the persons engaged in what is called the "Alton riot." Twelve persons
were indicted "for the crime of riot committed on the night of the 7th
of November, 1837, while engaged in defending a Printing Press from an
attack made on it at that time by an Armed Mob;" eleven others
were indicted "for a riot committed in Alton on the night of the
7th of November, 1837, in unlawfully and forcibly entering the
warehouse of Godfrey Gilman and Company, and breaking up and
destroying a printing press."

In both cases the juries returned a verdict of "not guilty." (See note
on Elijah Lovejoy.)]

It was not long, however, before all uncertainty about internal
improvements was over.

The people were determined to have them, and the Assembly responded
to their demands by passing an act which provided, at State expense,
for railroads, canals, or river improvements in almost every county
in Illinois.

To compensate those counties to which they could not give anything
else, they voted them a sum of money for roads and bridges.

No finer bit of imaginative work was ever done, in fact, by a
legislative body, than the map of internal improvements made by the
Tenth Assembly of Illinois.

There was no time to estimate exactly the cost of these fine plans.
Nor did they feel any need of estimates; that was a mere matter of
detail. They would vote a fund, and when that was exhausted they would
vote more; and so they appropriated sum after sum: one hundred thousand
dollars to improve the Rock River; one million eight hundred thousand
dollars to build a road from Quincy to Danville; four million dollars
to complete the Illinois and Michigan Canal; two hundred and fifty
thousand for the Western Mail Route--in all, some twelve million
dollars. To carry out the elaborate scheme, they provided a commission,
one of the first duties of which was to sell the bonds of the State to
raise the money for the enterprise. The majority of the Assembly seem not
to have entertained for a moment an idea that there would be any
difficulty in selling at a premium the bonds of Illinois.
"On the contrary," as General Linder says in his "Reminiscences," "the
enthusiastic friends of the measure maintained that, instead of there
being any difficulty in obtaining a loan of the fifteen or twenty millions
authorized to be borrowed, our bonds would go like hot cakes, and
be sought for by the Rothschilds, and Baring Brothers, and others
of that stamp; and that the premiums which we would obtain upon
them would range from fifty to one hundred per cent., and that the
premium itself would be sufficient to construct most of the important
works, leaving the principal sum to go into our treasury, and leave
the people free from taxation for years to come."

[Illustration: STUART AND LINCOLN'S PROFESSIONAL CARD.

The professional card of Stuart and Lincoln shows that the copartnership
began April 12, 1837. The card appeared in the next issue of the
"Sangamo Journal," and was continued until Lincoln became the partner
of Judge Logan, in 1841.]

THE REMOVAL OF THE CAPITAL TO SPRINGFIELD.

Although Lincoln favored and aided in every way the plan for internal
improvements, his real work was in securing the removal of the
capital to Springfield.

The task was by no means an easy one to direct; for outside of the
"Long Nine" there was, of course, nobody particularly interested
in Springfield, and there were delegations from a dozen other
counties hot to secure the capital for their own constituencies.

It took patient and clever manipulation to put the bill through.

Certain votes Lincoln, no doubt, gained for his cause by force of
his personal qualities. Thus Jesse K. Dubois says that he and his colleagues
voted for the bill because they liked Lincoln, and wanted to oblige him.
But probably the majority were won by skilful log-rolling. Not that
Lincoln ever sanctioned "trading" to the sacrifice of his own convictions.
General T.H. Henderson, of Illinois, says in some interesting reminiscences
of Lincoln, prepared for this Life and hitherto unpublished: "Before I
had ever seen Abraham Lincoln I heard my father, who served with
him in the legislature of 1838-39 and of 1840-41, relate an incident
in Mr.

Lincoln's life which illustrates his character for integrity and his
firmness in maintaining what he regarded as right in his public acts, in
a marked manner.

"I do not remember whether this incident occurred during the session
of the legislature in 1836-37 or 1838-39.

But I think it was in that of 1836-37, when it was said that there was
a great deal of log-rolling going on among the members. But, however
that may be, according to the story related by my father, an effort
was made to unite the friends of capital removal with the friends
of some measure which Mr.

Lincoln, for some reason, did not approve. What that measure was to which
he objected, I am not now able to recall.

But those who desired the removal of the capital to Springfield were very
anxious to effect the proposed combination, and a meeting was held to
see if it could be accomplished. The meeting continued in session
nearly all night, when it adjourned without accomplishing anything,
Mr.

Lincoln refusing to yield his objections and to support the obnoxious
measure."
[Illustration: OFFICE CHAIR FROM STUART AND LINCOLN'S LAW OFFICE.

The chair is now in the Oldroyd Collection in Washington, D.C.]
"Another meeting was called, and at this second meeting a number of
citizens, not members of the legislature, from the central
and northern parts of the State, among them my father, were present
by invitation. The meeting was long protracted, and earnest in its
deliberations. Every argument that could be thought of was used to induce
Mr. Lincoln to yield his objections and unite with his friends,
and thus secure the removal of the capital to his own city; but
without effect. Finally, after midnight, when everybody seemed exhausted
with the discussion, and when the candles were burning low in the room,
Mr. Lincoln rose amid the silence and solemnity which prevailed, and,
my father said, made one of the most eloquent and powerful speeches to
which he had ever listened. And he concluded his remarks by saying,
'You may burn my body to ashes, and scatter them to the winds of heaven;
you may drag my soul down to the regions of darkness and despair to
be tormented forever; but you will never get me to support a measure
which I believe to be wrong, although by doing so I may accomplish
that which I believe to be right.' And the meeting adjourned."
[Illustration: STUART AND LINCOLN'S LAW OFFICE.

From a photograph loaned by Jesse W.

Weik. The law office of Stuart and Lincoln was in the second story of
the building occupied at the time the photograph was made by "Tom
Dupleaux's Furniture Store."

Hoffman's Row, as this group of buildings was called, was used as
a court-house at that date, 1837.

The court-room was in the lower story of the two central buildings.]

If Lincoln did not support measures which he considered doubtful,
he did, now and then, "tack a provision" on a bill to please a
friend, as the following letter, hitherto unpublished, shows:[3]
"SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS, _August 5, 1837_.

"DEAR SIR:

"Mr.

Edwards tells me you wish to know whether the act to which your
town incorporation provision was attached passed into a law.

It did. You can organize under the general incorporation law as soon
as you choose.

"She's gone home."

"Thoughtful child! How soon will she be back?"

"About nine," said Marguerite, apparently unaware that George was being
funny.

"Nine!"

"Oh, George!" Marguerite exclaimed, breaking away from him. "I'm awfully
sorry, but I must get on with my packing."

"What packing?"

"I have to take my things home."

"What home?"

"Father's, I mean."

She was going to live with her father, who would not willingly allow
him, George, to enter the house! How astounding girls were! She had
written to him twice without giving the least hint of her resolve. He
had to learn it as it were incidentally, through the urgency of packing.
She did not tell him she was going--she said she must get on with her
packing! And there, lying on the floor, was an open trunk; and two of
her drawing-boards already had string round them.

George inquired:

"How is the old man--to-day?"

"He's very nervy," said Marguerite briefly and significantly. "I'd
better light the lamp; I shall see better." She seemed to be speaking to
herself. She stood on a chair and lifted the chimney off the central
lamp. George absently passed her his box of matches.

As she, was replacing the chimney, he said suddenly in a very resolute
tone:

"This is all very well, Marguerite. But it's going to be jolly awkward
for me."

She jumped lightly down from the chair, like a little girl.

"Oh! George! I know!" she cried. "It will be awkward for both of us. But
we shall arrange something." She might have resented his tone. She might
have impulsively defended herself. But she did not. She accepted his
attitude with unreserved benevolence. Her gaze was marvellously
sympathetic.

"I can't make out what your father's got against me," said George
angrily, building his vexation on her benevolence. "What have I done, I
should like to know."

"It's simply because you lived there all that time without him knowing
we were engaged. He says if he'd known he would never have let you stay
there a day." She smiled, mournfully, forgivingly, excusingly.

"But it's preposterous!"

"Oh! It is."

"And how does he behave to _you_? Is he treating you decently?"

"Oh! Fairly. You see, he's got a lot to get over. And he's most
frightfully upset about--his wife. Well, you saw him yourself, didn't
you?"

"That's no reason why he should treat you badly."

"But he doesn't, George!"

"Oh! I know! I know! Do you think I don't know? He's not even decent to
you. I can hear it in your voice. Why should you go back and live with
him if he isn't prepared to appreciate it?"

"But he expects it, George. And what am I to do? He's all alone. I can't
leave him all alone, can I?"

George burst out:

"I tell you what it is. Marguerite. You're too good-natured. That's what
it is. You're too good-natured. And it's a very bad thing."

Tears came into her eyes; she could not control them. She was grieved by
his remark.

"I'm not, George, truly. You must remember father's been through a lot
this last week. So have I."

"I know! I know! I admit all that. But you're too good-natured, and
I'll stick to it."

She was smiling again.

"You only think that because you're fond of me. Nobody else would say
it, and I'm not. Help me to lift this trunk on to the chest."

While the daylight withdrew, and the smell of the lamp strengthened and
then faded, and the shadows cast by the lamp-rays grew blacker, she went
on rapidly with her packing, he serving her at intervals. They said
little. His lower lip fell lower and lower. The evening was immensely,
horribly different from what he had expected and hoped for. He felt once
more the inescapable grip of destiny fastening upon him.

"Why are you in such a hurry?" he asked, after a long time.

"I told father I should be back at a quarter-past nine."

This statement threw George into a condition of total dark disgust. He
made no remark. But what remarks he could have made--sarcastic, bitter,
unanswerable! Why indeed in the name of heaven should she promise her
father to be back at a quarter-past nine, or at a quarter-past anything?
Was she a servant? Had she no rights? Had he himself, George, no rights?

A little before nine Agg arrived. Marguerite was fastening the trunk.

"Now be sure, Agg," said Marguerite. "Don't forget to hang out the
Carter Paterson card at the end of the alley to-morrow morning. I must
have these things at home to-morrow night for certain. The labels are
on. And here's twopence for the man."

"Do I forget?" retorted Agg cheerfully. "By the way, George, I want to
talk to you." She turned to Marguerite and repeated in quite a different
voice: "I want to talk to him, dear, to-night. Do, let him stay. Will
you?"

Marguerite gave a puzzled assent.

"I'll call after I've taken Marguerite to Alexandra Grove, Agg--on my
way back to the club."

"Oh no, you won't!" said Agg. "I shall be gone to bed then. Look at that
portrait and see how I've worked. My family's concerned about me. It
wants me to go away for a holiday."

George had not till then noticed the portrait at all.

"But I must take Marguerite along to the Grove," he insisted. "She can't
go alone."

"And why can't she go alone? What sort of a conventional world do you
think you live in? Don't girls go home alone? Don't they come in alone?
Don't I? Anybody would think, to listen to some people, that the purdah
flourished in Chelsea. But it's all pretence. I don't ask for the honour
of a private interview with you every night. You've both of you got all
your lives before you. And for once in a way Marguerite's going out
alone. At least, you can take her to the street, I don't mind that. But
don't be outside more than a minute."

Agg, who had sat down, rose and slowly removed her small hat. With pins
in her mouth she said something about the luggage to Marguerite.

"All right! All right!" George surrendered gloomily. In truth he was not
sorry to let Marguerite depart solitary. And Agg's demeanour was very
peculiar; he would have been almost afraid to be too obstinate in
denying her request. He had never seen her hysterical, but a suspicion
took him that she might be capable of hysteria.... You never knew, with
that kind of girl, he thought sagaciously.

In the darkness of the alley George said to Marguerite, feigning
irritation:

"What on earth does she want?"

"Agg? Oh! It's probably nothing. She does get excited sometimes, you
know."

The two girls had parted with strange, hard demonstrations of affection
from Agg.

"I suppose you'll write," said George coldly.

"To-morrow, darling," she replied quite simply and gravely.

Her kiss was warm, complete, faithful, very loving, very sympathetic.
Nothing in her demeanour as she left him showed that George had received
it in a non-committal manner. Yet she must have noticed his wounded
reserve. He did not like such duplicity. He would have preferred her to
be less miraculously angelic.

When he re-entered the studio, Agg, who very seldom smoked, was puffing
violently at a cigarette. She reclined on one elbow on the settee, her
eyes fixed on the portrait of herself. George was really perturbed by
the baffling queerness of the scenes through which he was passing.

"Look here, infant-in-arms," she began immediately. "I only wanted to
say two words to you about Marguerite. Can you stand it?"

There was a pause. George walked in front of her, hiding the easel.

"Yes," he said gruffly.

"Well, Marguerite's a magnificent girl. She's extraordinarily capable.
You'd think she could look after herself as well as anyone. But she
can't. I know her far better than you do. She needs looking after.
She'll make a fool of herself if she isn't handled."

"How do you mean?"

"You know how I mean."

"D'you mean about the old man?"

"I mean about the perfectly horrid old man.... Ah! If I was in your
place, if I was a man," she said passionately, "do you know what I
should do with Marguerite? I should carry her off. I should run away
with her. I should drag her out of the house, and she should know what a
real man was. I'm not going to discuss her with you. I'm not going to
say any more at all. I'm off to bed. But before you go, I do think you
might tell me my portrait's a pretty good thing."

And she did not say any more.


III


The written part of the examination lasted four days; and then there was
an interval of one day in which the harassed and harried aspirants might
restore themselves for the two days' ordeal of the viva voce. George had
continued to be well satisfied with his work up to the interval. He
considered that he had perfectly succeeded in separating the lover and
the examinee, and that nothing foreign to the examination could vitiate
his activity therein. It was on the day of repose, a Wednesday, that a
doubt suddenly occurred to him as to the correctness of his answer, in
the "Construction" paper, to a question which began with the following
formidable words: "A girder, freely supported at each end and forty feet
long, carries a load of six tons at a distance of six feet from one end
and another load of ten tons----" Thus it went on for ten lines. He had
always been impatient of detail, and he hated every kind of calculation.
Nevertheless he held that calculations were relatively easy, and that he
could do them as well as the driest duffer in the profession when he set
his mind to them. But the doubt as to the correctness of his answer
developed into a certainty. Facing the question in private again, he
obtained four different solutions in an hour; it was John Orgreave who
ultimately set him right, convicting him of a most elementary
misconception. Forthwith his faith in his whole "Construction" paper
vanished. He grumbled that it was monstrous to give candidates an
unbroken stretch of four hours' work at the end of a four-day effort.
Yet earlier he had been boasting that he had not felt the slightest
fatigue. He had expected to see Marguerite on the day of repose. He did
not see her. She had offered no appointment, and he said to himself
that he had not the slightest intention of running after her. Such had
become the attitude of the lover to the beloved.

On the Thursday morning, however, he felt fit enough to face a dozen
oral examiners, and he performed his morning exercises in the club
bedroom with a positive ferocity of vigour. And then he was gradually
overtaken by a black moodiness which he could not explain. He had passed
through similar though less acute moods as a boy; but this was the first
of the inexplicable sombre humours which at moments darkened his
manhood. He had not the least suspicion that prolonged nervous tension
due to two distinct causes had nearly worn him out. He was melancholy,
and his melancholy increased. But he was proud; he was defiant. His
self-confidence, as he looked back at the years of genuine hard study
behind him, was complete. He disdained examiners. He knew that with all
their damnable ingenuity they could not floor him.

The crisis arrived in the afternoon of the first of the two days. His
brain was quite clear. Thousands of details about drainage, ventilation,
shoring, architectural practice, lighting, subsoils, specifications,
iron and steel construction, under-pinning, the properties of building
materials, strains, thrusts, water-supply; thousands of details about
his designs--the designs in his 'testimonies of study,' the design for
his Thesis, and the designs produced during the examination itself--all
these peopled his brain; but they were in order; they were under
control; they were his slaves. For four and a half hours, off and on, he
had admirably displayed the reality of his knowledge, and then he was
sent into a fresh room to meet a fresh examiner. There he stood in the
room alone with his designs for a small provincial town hall--a
key-plan, several one-eighth scale-plans, a piece of half-inch detail,
and two rough perspective sketches which he knew were brilliant. The
room was hot; through the open window came the distant sound of the
traffic of Regent Street. The strange melancholy of a city in summer
floated towards him from the outside and reinforced his own.

The examiner, who had been snatching tea, entered briskly and sternly.
He was a small, dapper, fair man of about fifty, with wonderfully tended
finger-nails. George despised him because Mr. Enwright despised him, but
he had met him once in the way of the firm's business and found him
urbane.

"Good afternoon," said George politely.

The examiner replied, trotting along the length of the desk with quick,
short steps:

"Now about this work of yours. I've looked at it with some care----" His
speech was like his demeanour and his finger-nails.

"Boor!" thought George. But he could not actively resent the slight. He
glanced round at the walls; he was in a prison. He was at the mercy of a
tyrant invested with omnipotence.

The little tyrant, however, was superficially affable. Only now and then
in his prim, courteous voice was there a hint of hostility and cruelty.
He put a number of questions, the answers to which had to be George's
justification. He said "H'm!" and "Ah!" and "Really?" He came to the
matter of spouting.

"Now, I object to hopper-heads," he said. "I regard them as unhygienic."

And he looked coldly at George with eyebrows lifted. George returned the
gaze.

"I know you do, sir," George replied.

Indeed it was notorious that hopper-heads to vertical spouting were a
special antipathy of the examiner's; he was a famous faddist. But the
reply was a mistake. The examiner, secure in his attributes, ignored the
sally. A little later, taking up the general plan of the town hall, he
said:

"The fact is, I do--not--care for this kind of thing. The whole
tendency----"

"Excuse me, sir," George interrupted, with conscious and elaborate
respectfulness. "But surely the question isn't one of personal
preferences. Is the design good or is it bad?"

"Well, I call it bad," said the examiner, showing testiness. The
examiner too could be impulsive, was indeed apt to be short-tempered.
The next instant he seized one of the brilliant perspective sketches,
and by his mere manner of holding it between his thumb and finger he
sneered at it and condemned it.

He snapped out, not angrily--rather pityingly:

"And what the devil's this?"

George, furious, retorted:

"What the hell do you think it is?"

He had not foreseen that he was going to say such a thing. The traffic
in Regent Street, which had been inaudible to both of them, was loud in
their ears.

The examiner had committed a peccadillo, George a terrible crime. The
next morning the episode, in various forms, was somehow common knowledge
and a source of immense diversion. George went through the second day,
but lifelessly. He was sure he had failed. Apart from the significance
of the fact that the viva voce counted for 550 marks out of a total of
1200, he felt that the Royal Institute of British Architects would know
how to defend its dignity. On the Saturday morning John Orgreave had
positive secret information that George would be plucked.


IV


On that same Saturday afternoon George and Marguerite went out together.
She had given him a rendezvous in Brompton Cemetery, choosing this spot
partly because it was conveniently near and partly in unconscious
obedience to the traditional instinct of lovers for the society of the
undisturbing dead. Each of them had a roofed habitation, but neither
could employ it for the ends of love. No. 8 was barred to George as much
by his own dignity as by the invisible sword of the old man; and of
course he could not break the immemorial savage taboo of a club by
introducing a girl into it. The Duke of Wellington himself, though
Candle Court was his purdah, could never have broken the taboo of even
so modest a club as Pickering's. Owing to the absence of Agg, who had
gone to Wales with part of her family, the studio in Manresa Road was
equally closed to the pair.

Marguerite was first at the rendezvous. George saw her walking sedately
near the entrance. Despite her sedateness she had unmistakably the air
of waiting at a tryst. Anybody at a glance would have said that she was
expecting a man. She had the classical demure innocency of her
situation. George did not care for that. Why? She in fact was expecting
a man, and in expecting him she had nothing to be ashamed of. Well, he
did not care for it. He did not care for her being like other girls of
her class. In his pocket he had an invitation from Miss Wheeler for the
next evening. Would Miss Wheeler wait for a man in a public place,
especially a cemetery? Would Lois Ingram? Would Laurencine? He could not
picture them so waiting. Oh, simpleton, unlearned in the world! A snob
too, no doubt! (He actually thought that Hyde Park would have been
'better' than the cemetery for their rendezvous.) And illogical! If No.
8 had been open to them, and the studio, and the club, he would have
accepted with gusto the idea of an open-air rendezvous. But since there
was no alternative to an open-air rendezvous the idea of it humiliated
and repelled him.

Further, in addition to her culpable demure innocency, Marguerite was
wearing black. Of course she was. She had no choice. Still, he hated her
mourning. Moreover, she was too modest; she did not impose herself. Some
girls wore mourning with splendid defiance. Marguerite seemed to
apologize; seemed to turn the other cheek to death.... He arrived
critical, and naturally he found matter to criticize.

Her greeting showed quite candidly the pleasure she had in the sight of
him. Her heart was in the hand she gave him; he felt its mystic
throbbings there.

"How are things?" he began. "I rather thought I should have been hearing
from you." He softened his voice to match the tenderness of her smile,
but he did it consciously.

She replied:

"I thought you'd have enough to worry about with the exam. without me."

It was not a wise speech, because it implied that he was capable of
being worried, of being disturbed in the effort of absorption necessary
for the examination. He laughed a little harshly.

"Well, you see the result!"

He had written to tell her of the disastrous incident and that failure
was a certainty; a sort of shame had made him recoil from telling her to
her face; it was easier to be casual in writing than in talking; the
letter had at any rate tempered for both of them the shock of
communication. Now, he was out of humour with her because he had played
the ass with an ass of an examiner--not because she was directly or
indirectly responsible for his doing so; simply because he had done so.
She was the woman. It was true that she in part was indirectly
responsible for the calamity, but he did not believe it, and anyhow
would never have admitted it.

"Oh! George! What a shame it was!" As usual, not a trace of reproach
from her: an absolute conviction that he was entirely blameless. "What
shall you do? You'll have to sit again."

"Sit again? Me?" he exclaimed haughtily. "I never shall! I've done with
exams." He meant it.

"But--shall you give up architecture, then?"

"Certainly not! My dear girl, what are you thinking of? Of course I
shan't give up architecture. But you needn't pass any exams, to be an
architect. Anybody can call himself an architect, and be an architect,
without passing exams. Exams. are optional. That's what makes old
Enwright so cross with our beautiful profession."

He laughed again harshly. All the time, beneath his quite genuine
defiance, he was thinking what an idiot he had been to cheek the
examiner, and how staggeringly simple it was to ruin years of industry
by one impulsive moment's folly, and how iniquitous was a world in which
such injustice could be.

Marguerite was puzzled. In her ignorance she had imagined that
professions were inseparably connected with examinations. However, she
had to find faith to accept his dictum, and she found it.

"Now about this afternoon," he said. "I vote we take a steamboat down
the river. I've made up my mind I must have a look at Greenwich again
from the water. And we both need a blow."

"But won't it take a long time?" she mildly objected.

He turned on her violently, and spoke as he had never spoken:

"What if it does?"

He knew that she was thinking of her infernal father, and he would not
have it. He remembered all that Agg had said. Assuredly Agg had shown
nerve, too much nerve, to tackle him in the way she did, and the more he
reflected upon Agg's interference the more he resented it as
impertinent. Still, Agg had happened to talk sense.

"Oh, nothing!" Marguerite agreed quickly, fearfully. "I should like to
go. I've never been. Do we go to Chelsea Pier? Down Fernshaw Road will
be the nearest."

"We'll go down Beaufort Street," he decided. He divined that she had
suggested Fernshaw Road in order to avoid passing the end of the Grove,
where her father might conceivably see them. Well, he was not going out
of his way to avoid her father. Nay, he was going slightly out of his
way in order to give her father every chance of beholding them
together.

Although the day was Saturday there was no stir on Chelsea Pier. The
pier-keeper, indeed, was alone on the pier, which rose high on the
urgent flood-tide, so that the gangway to it sloped unusually upwards.
No steamer was in sight, and it seemed impossible that any steamer
should ever call at that forlorn and decrepit platform that trembled
under the straining of the water. Nevertheless, a steamer did after a
little while appear round the bend, in Battersea Reach; she dropped her
funnel, aimed her sharp nose at an arch of Battersea Bridge, and
finally, poising herself against the strong stream, bumped very gently
and neatly into contact with the pier. The pier-keeper went through all
the classic motions of mooring, unbarring, barring, and casting off, and
in a few seconds the throbbing steamer, which was named with the name of
a great Londoner, left the pier again with George and Marguerite on
board. Nobody had disembarked. The shallow and handsome craft, flying
its gay flags, crossed and recrossed the river, calling at three piers
in the space of a few minutes; but all the piers were like Chelsea Pier;
all the pier-keepers had the air of castaways upon shaking islets. The
passengers on the steamer would not have filled a motor-bus, and they
carried themselves like melancholy adventurers who have begun to doubt
the authenticity of the inspiration which sent them on a mysterious
quest. Such was travel on the Thames in the years immediately before
Londoners came to a final decision that the Thames was meet to be
ignored by the genteel town which it had begotten.

His portraits, again, are most masterly, occasionally rising through
sheer force of rendering each characteristic trait of his model (as
in the portrait of M. Bertin, the editor of the "Débats"), to the
extreme exactitude of Holbein, coupled with an _allure_ so thoroughly
modern that the whole epoch of Louis Philippe lives before us. In the
slighter drawings of his earlier years in Rome, one of which is reproduced
here, only the most typical details are chosen, and these are indicated
with a delicacy of touch, a sureness of hand, that not only indicates
the master, but lends a distinctive charm of truthful delicacy of which
none but Ingres has known the secret. It is in such works that his
influence will be felt the longest; for, as with his master, the
great pictures in which he exemplified his principles remain cold
and uninteresting.

The "Homer Deified," reproduced here, was originally intended as a ceiling
for the Louvre, and from a decorative point of view would excite
a pitying smile from Veronese or Tiepolo. Taken bit by bit, as a
beautiful exhibition of supreme knowledge, of the evasive quality of
style in drawing, it is, however, admirable, and as a whole it has the
merits of grave, balanced composition. It was the spirit of work like
this which the master sought to force upon his epoch, rather than that
of his portraits or of pictures like the "Source;" and the austerity of
these principles met with more submission in the earlier years of the
century than when later Géricault had shown the path in which the
audacious Delacroix threw himself at the head of a band of romantic
followers.

[Illustration: DANTE AND VIRGIL CROSSING THE LAKE WHICH SURROUNDS THE
INFERNAL CITY OF DITÉ. FROM A PAINTING BY EUGÈNE DELACROIX, IN THE
LOUVRE.

The subject is taken from Dante's "Inferno," and represents the poet and
his companions and guide standing in a bark conducted by Phlegyas, while
around them appear on the surface of the water the writhing bodies
of the condemned, among whom Dante recognizes certain Florentines.]
I have used the term audacious in speaking of Delacroix, and
circumstances forced him to justify the epithet. Yet to a student of
his work, and still more of his character as revealed in his
writings (his recently published letters and the few articles
published during his life in the "Revue des Deux-Mondes"), he would
appear to have been by nature prepared to receive the full academic
tradition, and only because of what appeared a violation of the
tradition _as he understood it_, to have arrayed himself in violent
opposition: a situation which rendered him in work and in life
contradictory to his natural instinct.

It is the old story of the defect of system. Even the most cunningly
devised cannot make a place for all the many manifestations of
temperamental activity.

Like Géricault, a pupil of Guérin, Delacroix found in his master and
in the general spirit of the school an insistence on the letter of
the classic law to which his richly endowed nature could not bend, and
was thus forced to rebel; whereas a more elastic application of
received principles would have found him an enthusiastic adherent.

In this way he missed acquiring the technical mastery over form,
which proved a stumbling block to him through life. At times his drawing
is possessed of a vigor and life which even Ingres never had; at others
his work is almost lamentable in its lack of constructive form. In respect
to color in its finest, most harmonic qualities, he is the greatest
of French painters; and at all times he is master of an intense dramatic
force.

It was with a masterpiece--"Dante and Virgil"--that he made his
first appearance at the Salon in 1822.

At a bound he found himself famous.

Guérin, who had counselled him against sending his picture to the Salon,
grudgingly acknowledged that he was wrong.

Gros told him that it was like Rubens, with more correctness of form--Rubens
"chastened" was the word.

The government bought the picture, paying the artist two hundred and
forty dollars--twelve hundred francs--for it.

The same year Delacroix submissively made his final attempt for the Prix
de Rome, but came out sixtieth in the competition. Thenceforward he was
to be constantly before the public, constantly opposed, misunderstood,
criticised; but nevertheless, with all the energy which shows in his
portrait, constantly in the front. When his defenders had
sufficient influence to force the hand of the ministry of fine arts,
he was commissioned to paint for the state; and to this we owe the
decorations in the gallery of Apollon in the Louvre, the decorations in
the church of St. Sulpice, and others. When he received the order for
the entrance of the Crusaders to Constantinople for the Gallery of
Battles at Versailles, the good King Louis Philippe sent him word
to make it as little like his usual style as possible!

Among Delacroix's critics Ingres, with all the force of his
convictions, was the foremost.

He to whom a sky had always served as a simple background was not created
to understand the almost purple canopy of azure stretching far
above the heads of the Crusaders; nor to find barbaric delight in
the rich trappings of horses and men, since to him a drapery was
simply a textureless covering adjusted to accentuate the form
beneath.

Delacroix, whose intelligence was of a higher order and who said of
himself that he was "more rebellious than revolutionary," treated
Ingres when they met on official occasions, as at the meetings of
the Institute (where finally Delacroix had penetrated), with a high
and distant courtesy which his sturdy adversary, strong in his pious
devotion to classicism, hardly returned.

Delacroix had by far the most brilliant following, reinforced as
it was by the landscape painters, who from 1830 onwards gave to
this century its most notable school of painting.

Added to this was a fair measure of appreciation on the part of
collectors.

Delacroix's genius found expression in many small pictures, all of them
characterized by a gem-like coloration (which is more than mere color,
however, for in it lies the secret of a powerful and direct expression
of sentiment) and by a vivid realization of movement. Proud by nature,
delicate in health, his life was far from happy; he never ceased to feel
the sting of adverse criticism. "For more than thirty years I have
been given over to the wild beasts," he said once.

He had warm friends, who have left many records of his sweetness of
disposition when the outer barrier of haughty reserve was broken
through; but they were few in number.

He never married; painting, he said, was his only mistress, and his
passion for his art is felt through all his work.

His death occurred at Champrosay near Paris, where he had a modest
country house, on August 13, 1863; and four years later, January
14, 1867, his great adversary, Ingres, followed him.

CY AND I.

BY EUGENE FIELD.

As I went moseyin' down th' street, My Denver friend I chanced t'
meet.

"Hello!"

says I, "Where have you been so long a time That we have missed
your soothin' rhyme?"

"New York," says Cy.

"Gee whiz!" says I.

"You must have seen some wonders down In that historic, splendid
town;" And then says I:
"For bridges, parks, and crowded streets There is no other place
that beats New York," says I.

"_Correct!_" says Cy.

"The town is mighty big, but then It isn't in it with its men, Is
it?"

says I.

"And tell me, Cyrus, if you can, Who is its biggest, brainiest man?"
"Dana!"

says Cy.
"You _bet_!" says I.

"He's big of heart and big of brain, And he's been good unto us
twain"-- Choked up, says I.

"I love him, and I pray God give Him many, many years to live!
Eh, Cy?" says I.
"_Amen!_" says Cy.

A YOUNG HERO
PERSONAL REMINISCENCES OF COLONEL E.E. ELLSWORTH.

BY JOHN HAY,
Author, with John G. Nicolay, of "Abraham Lincoln: a History."

[Illustration: HENRY H. MILLER, A MEMBER OF THE ORIGINAL COMPANY OF
ELLSWORTH ZOUAVES.

From a photograph loaned by Mr. Miller and taken in 1861 by Colonel
E.L. Brand, at that time commanding the company.]
It is in contemplating what the world loses in the deaths of brilliant
young citizen soldiers that we appreciate most fully the waste of war
and the priceless value of the cause for which such lives were sacrificed.
When a man like Henri Regnault--the most substantial hope
and promise of art in our century--is seen at the siege of Paris lingering
behind his retreating comrades, "_le temps de bruler une dernière
cartouche_" the last words he uttered; when a genius like Theodore Winthrop
is extinguished in its ardent dawn on an obscure skirmish field; when
a patriot and poet like Koerner dies in battle with his work hardly
begun--we feel how inadequate are all the millions of the treasury
to rival such offerings. We shall have no correct idea what our
country is worth to us if we forget all the singing voices that
were hushed, all the noble hearts that stopped beating, all the
fiery energies that were quenched, that we might be citizens of the
great and indivisible Republic of the Western world.

I believe that few men who fell in our civil conflict bore with them out
of the world possibilities of fame and usefulness so bright or so important
as Colonel Ephraim Elmer Ellsworth, who was killed at Alexandria,
Virginia, on May 24, 1861--the first conspicuous victim of the war. The
world can never compute, can hardly even guess, what was lost in his
untimely end. He was killed by the first gun he ever heard fired in
strife; and his friends, who believe him to have had in him the making
of a great soldier, have nothing to support their opinion but the
impression made upon them by his manly character, his winning and
vigorous personality, and the extraordinary ardor and zest with which
his powerful mind turned towards military affairs in the midst of
circumstances of almost incredible difficulty and privation. He was one
of the dearest of the friends of my youth. I cannot hope to enable
the readers of this paper to see him as I saw him. No words can express
the vivid brilliancy of his look and his speech, the swift and
graceful energy of his bearing. He was not a scholar, yet his words
were like martial music; in stature he was less than the medium size,
yet his strength was extraordinary; he seemed made of tempered
steel.
His entire aspect breathed high ambition and daring. His jet-black
curls, his open candid brow, his dark eyes, at once fiery and
tender, his eagle profile, his mouth just shaded by the youthful
growth that hid none of its powerful and delicate lines--the whole
face, which seemed made for nothing less than the command of men, whether
as general or as orator, comes before me as I write, with a
look of indignant appeal to the future for the chance of fame which
inexorable fate denied him. The appeal, of course, is in vain. Only a
few men, now growing old, knew what he was and what he might have
been if life had been spared him for a year or two.

I will merely try to show in these few pages, mainly from his own
words, how great a heart was broken by the slugs of the assassin
at the Marshall House.

He was born in the village of Mechanicsville, Saratoga County,
New York, on April 23, 1837.

His parents were plain people, without culture or means; one cannot guess
how this eaglet came into so lowly a nest. He went out into the world at
the first opportunity, to seek his fortune; he turned his hand, like
other American boys, to anything he could find to do.

He lived a while in New York, and finally drifted to Chicago, where
we find him, in the spring of 1859, a clerk and student in the law
office of Mr.

J.E. Cone. From his earliest boyhood he had a passionate love of
the army.

He learned as a child the manual of arms; he picked up instinctively
a knowledge of the pistol and the rifle; he became, almost without
instruction, a scientific fencer.
But he was now of age, and determined to be a lawyer, since, to all
appearance, there was no chance for him in the army.

The way in which he pursued his legal studies he has set down in a
diary which he kept for a little while.

He began it on his twenty-second birthday.

"I do this," he said, "because it seems pleasant to be able to look
back upon our past lives and note the gradual change in our sentiments
and views of life; and because my life has been, and bids fair to be,
such a jumble of strange incidents that, should I become anybody
or anything, this will be useful as a means of showing how much
suffering and temptation a man may undergo and still keep clear of
despair and vice."

[Illustration: ELLSWORTH IN THE SPRING OF 1861, WHEN HE WAS A
LIEUTENANT IN THE REGULAR ARMY AND JUST BEFORE HE RECRUITED THE
REGIMENT OF NEW YORK ZOUAVES.

From a photograph by Brady in the Civil War collection of Mr. Robert
Coster, by whose permission it is here reproduced.]
He was neat, almost foppish, in his attire; not strictly fashionable, for
he liked bright colors, flowing cravats, and hats that suggested the
hunter or ranger rather than the law clerk; yet the pittance for which
he worked was very small, and his poverty extreme.

He therefore economized upon his food.

He lived for months together upon dry biscuits and water.

Here is a touching entry from his diary: "Had an opportunity to buy
a desk to-day worth forty-five dollars, for fourteen dollars.

It was just such a one as I needed, and I could sell at any time for
more than was asked for it. I bought it at auction. I can now indulge
my ideas of order in the arrangement of my papers to their fullest extent.
Paid five dollars of my own money and borrowed ten dollars of James
Clayburne; promised to return it next Tuesday.
By the way, this was an instance in a small way of the importance of little
things. Some two years since, when I was so poor, I went one day into
an eating-house on an errand. While there, Clayburne and several
friends came in.

"As I started to go out they stopped me and insisted upon my having
an oyster stew.

I refused, for I always made it a practice never to accept even an
apple from any one, because I could not return like courtesies.

While they were clamoring about the matter and I trying to get from
them, the waiter brought on the oysters for the whole party, having
taken it for granted that I was going to stay.

So to escape making myself any more conspicuous by further refusal, I sat
down. How gloriously every morsel tasted--the first food I had touched
for three days and three nights.

When I came to Chicago with a pocket full of money I sought James out and
told him I owed him half a dollar. He said no, but I insisted my
memory was better than his, and made him take it. Well, when I wanted
ten dollars, I went to him, and he gave it to me freely, and would
take no security.

Have written four hours this evening; two pounds of crackers; sleep on
office floor to-night."

The diary relates many incidents like this.

He took a boyish pride in refusing offers of assistance, in resisting
temptation to innocent indulgence, in passing most of his hours in
study, earning only enough by his copying to keep body and soul
together.

One entry is, "Read one hundred and fifty pages of Blackstone--slept
on floor."

Such a regimen was not long in having its effect upon even his
rugged health.

He writes: "I tried to read, but could not.

I am afraid my strength will not hold out. I have contracted a cold by
sleeping on the floor, which has settled in my head, and nearly sets
me crazy with catarrh. Then there is that gnawing, unsatisfied sensation
which I begin to feel again, which prevents any long-continued application."
About this time he was urged to take command of a company of cadets
which, through mismanagement, had been reduced to a deplorable
condition.

He at first declined, but afterward consented if the company would
accept certain rigorous conditions of discipline and obedience.

He was as firm as granite to his company, and cheery and gay to the
world, while in his private life he was subjecting himself to the
cruel rigors described in his diary of April 21: "I am convinced
that the course of reading which I am pursuing is not sufficiently
thorough.

Have commenced again at beginning of Blackstone.

I now read a proposition or paragraph and reason upon it; try to
get at the principle involved, in my own language; view it in every
light till I think I understand it; then write it down in my
commonplace book.

My progress is, in consequence, very slow, as it takes on an average
half an hour to each page.

Attended meeting of cadets' committee on ways and means; all my
propositions accepted.

I spent my last ten cents for crackers to-day.

Ten pages of Blackstone."
The next day he writes: "My mind was so occupied with obtaining money
due to-morrow that I could not study. Five pages of Blackstone.

Nothing whatever to eat. I am very tired and hungry to-night. Onward."

[Illustration: ELLSWORTH IN 1860, WHEN HE WAS CAPTAIN OF THE CHICAGO
COMPANY.

From a photograph loaned by Mr. H.H. Miller of Chicago, a member of the
Chicago company, and taken July 2, 1860, by Colonel E.L. Brand of
Chicago, a member of Ellsworth's Chicago company, and afterwards in command
of it. In the State House at Springfield, Illinois, is a portrait
group of the members of the Ellsworth company, with a reproduction of
this portrait of Ellsworth in the centre.]
In these circumstances of hunger and toil, he took charge of the
company of cadets, which was falling to pieces from neglect.

There was no sign in his bearing of the poverty and famine which
were consuming him.

He told them roundly that if they elected him their captain they
did so with their eyes open; that he should enforce the strictest
discipline, and make their company second to none in the United
States.

His laws were Draconic in their severity.

He forbade his cadets from entering a drinking or gambling saloon or any
other disreputable place under penalty of expulsion, publication of
the offender's name in the city papers, and forfeiture of uniform. He
insisted on prompt obedience and unremitting drill.

The company under his firm and inspiring command rapidly pulled itself
together, and attracted all at once the notice and admiration of
Chicago and northern Illinois.

The young captain did not give up his law studies.
He wrote and affixed to his desk a card which contained his own daily
orders: "So aim to spend your time that at night, when looking back
at the disposal of the day, you find no time misspent, no hour, no moment
even, which has not resulted in some benefit, no action which
had not a purpose in it. Mondays, Thursdays and Saturdays: Rise at 5
o'clock; 5 to 10, study; 10 to 1, copy; 1 to 4, business; 4 to 7, study;
7 to 8, exercise; 8 to 10, study. Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays: Rise at 6; 6 to 10, study; 10 to 1, business; 1 to 7, study and
copy; 7 to 11, drill."

Working faithfully as he did in the office, his whole heart was in
his drill room.

His fame as a fencer went abroad in the town, and he was challenged
to a bout by the principal teacher of the art in Chicago.

Ellsworth records the combat in his diary of May 24th: "This evening
the fencer of whom I have heard so much came up to the armory to
fence with me.

He said to his pupils and several others that if I held to the low
guard he would disarm me every time I raised my foil.

He is a great gymnast, and I fully expected to be beaten.

The result was: I disarmed him four times, hit him thirty times. He
disarmed me once and hit me five times.

At the _touche-à-touche_ I touched him in two places at the same
allonge, and threw his foil from him several feet.

He was very angry, though he tried to conceal it."
[Illustration: FRANK E. BROWNELL, WHO KILLED THE ASSASSIN OF COLONEL
ELLSWORTH.

From a photograph in the Civil War collection of Mr.

Robert Coster, by whose permission it is here reproduced.]
Public interest constantly grew in the Zouaves and their young captain.
Large crowds attended every drill.

The newspapers began to report all their proceedings, and to comment
upon them with more or less malevolence; for military companies
were treated with scant respect in Western towns before the war.

Ellsworth at last determined to confront hostile opinion by giving
a public exhibition of the proficiency of his company on the Fourth
of July.

He was not without trepidation.

The night before the Fourth he wrote: "To-morrow will be an eventful day
to me; to-morrow I have to appear in a conspicuous position before
thousands of citizens--an immense number of whom, without knowing me
except by sight, are prejudiced against me.

To-morrow will demonstrate the truth or falsity of my assertion that the
citizens would encourage military companies if they were worthy of
respect."

The result was an overwhelming success; and the young soldier, after
his feast of crackers the next night, wrote in exultation: "Victory!

And thank God!"

The Chicago "Tribune," which had previously been unfriendly to the
little company who were trying to make soldiers of themselves, gave a
long and flattering account of the performance, and said: "We but
express the opinion of all who saw the drill yesterday morning,
when we say this company cannot be surpassed this side of West
Point."

Encouraged by this public applause, he brought his company of Zouaves
as near to absolute perfection of drill as was possible; and then,
having tested them in as many competitive contests as were within
reach, he challenged the militia companies of the United States,
and set forth in the summer of 1860 on a tour of the country which
was one unbroken succession of triumphs.

He defeated the crack companies in all the principal Eastern cities, and
went back to Chicago one of the most talked-of men in the country.
Hundreds of Zouave companies started up in his wake, and a very considerable
awakening of interest in military matters was the substantial result of
his journey.

[Illustration: THE DEATH OF COLONEL ELLSWORTH.]

On his return to Illinois he made the acquaintance of Abraham
Lincoln, and gained at once his friendship and esteem.

He entered his office in Springfield ostensibly as a law student; but
Mr. Lincoln was then a candidate for the Presidency, and Ellsworth
read very little law that autumn. He made some Republican speeches in the
country towns about Springfield, bright, witty, and good-natured. But
his mind was full of a project which he hoped to accomplish by the
aid of Mr.

Lincoln--no less than the establishment in the War Department of a
bureau of militia, by which the entire militia system of the United
States should be concentrated, systematized, and made efficient:
an enormous undertaking for a boy of twenty-three; but his plans
were clear, definite, and comprehensive.

[Illustration: THE MARSHALL HOUSE, ALEXANDRIA, VIRGINIA, IN WHICH COLONEL
ELLSWORTH WAS KILLED.

The sensation communicated to him by her hand when he had
drawn off her glove in the tremendous silence of the hansom! Marvellous,
exquisite, magical sensation that no words of his could render! And
there had been others as rare. These scenes were love; they were
Marguerite; they were what he had lost.... Strange, that he should throw
the ring into the river! Nevertheless it was a right gesture. She
deserved it. She was absolutely wrong; he was absolutely right--she had
admitted it. Towards him she had no excuse. Logically her attitude was
absurd. Yet no argument would change it. Stupid--that was what she was!
Stupid! And ruthless! She would be capable of martyrizing the whole
world to her sense of duty, her damnable, insane sense of duty.... She
was gone. He was ruined; she had ruined him. But he respected her. He
hated to respect her, but he respected her.

A thought leapt up in his mind--and who could have guessed it? It was
the thought that the secrecy of the engagement would save him from a
great deal of public humiliation. He would have loathed saying: "We've
broken it off."


CHAPTER VIII

INSPIRATION

I


George, despite his own dispositions, as he went up in the lift, to
obviate the danger of such a mishap, was put out of countenance by the
overwhelming splendour of Miss Irene Wheeler's flat. And he did not
quite recover his aplomb until the dinner was nearly finished. The rooms
were very large and lofty; they blazed with electric light, though the
day had not yet gone; they gleamed with the polish of furniture, enamel,
bookbindings, marble, ivory, and precious metals; they were ennobled by
magnificent pictures, and purified by immense quantities of lovely
flowers. George had made the mistake of arriving last. He found in the
vast drawing-room five people who had the air of being at home and
intimate together. There were, in addition to the hostess, Lois and
Laurencine Ingram, Everard Lucas, and a Frenchman from the French
Embassy whose name he did not catch. Miss Wheeler wore an elaborate
Oriental costume, and apologized for its simplicity on the grounds that
she was fatigued by a crowded and tiresome reception which she had held
that afternoon, and that the dinner was to be without ceremony. This
said, her conversation seemed to fail, but she remained by George's
side, apart from the others. George saw not the least vestige of the
ruinous disorder which, in the society to which he was accustomed,
usually accompanied a big afternoon tea, or any sign of a lack of
ceremony. He had encountered two male servants in the hall, and had also
glimpsed a mulatto woman in a black dress and a white apron, and a
Frenchwoman in a black dress and a black apron. Now a third man-servant
entered, bearing an enormous silver-gilt tray on which were
multitudinous bottles, glasses, decanters, and jugs. George comprehended
that _apéritifs_ were being offered. The tray contained enough cocktails
and other combinations, some already mingled and some not, to produce a
factitious appetite in the stomachs of a whole platoon. The girls
declined, Miss Wheeler declined, the Frenchman declined, George declined
(from prudence and diffidence); only Lucas took an _apéritif_, and he
took it, as George admitted, in style. The man-servant, superbly
indifferent to refusals, marched processionally off with the loaded
tray. The great principle of conspicuous ritualistic waste had been
illustrated in a manner to satisfy the most exacting standard of the
leisured class; and incidentally a subject of talk was provided.

George observed the name of 'Renoir' on the gorgeous frame of a gorgeous
portrait in oils of the hostess.

"Is that a Renoir?" he asked the taciturn Miss Wheeler, who seemed to
jump at the opening with relief.

"Yes," she said, with her slight lisp. "I'm glad you noticed it. Come
and look at it. Do you think it's a good one? Do you like Renoir?"

By good fortune George had seen a Renoir or two in Paris under the
guidance of Mr. Enwright. They stared at the portrait together.

"It's awfully distinguished," he decided, employing a useful adjective
which he had borrowed from Mr. Enwright.

"Isn't it!" she said, turning her wondrous complexion towards him, and
admiring his adjective. "I have a Boldini too."

He followed her across the room to the Boldini portrait of herself,
which was dazzling in its malicious flattery.

"And here's a Nicholson," she said.

Those three portraits were the most striking pictures in the _salon_,
but there were others of at least equal value.

"Are you interested in fans?" she demanded, and pulled down a switch
which illuminated the interior of a large cabinet full of fans. She
pointed out fans painted by Lami, Glaize, Jacquemart. "That one is
supposed to be a Lancret," she said. "But I'm not sure about it, and I
don't know anybody that is. Here's the latest book on the subject." She
indicated Lady Charlotte Schreiber's work in two volumes which, bound in
vellum and gold, lay on a table. "But of course it only deals with
English fans. However, Conder is going to do me a couple. He was here
yesterday to see me about them. Of course you know him. What a wonderful
man! The only really cosmopolitan artist in England, I say, now
Beardsley's dead. I've got a Siegfried drawing by Beardsley. He was a
great friend of mine. I adored him."

"This is a fine thing," said George, touching a bronze of a young girl
on the same table as the books.

"You think so?" Miss Wheeler responded uncertainly. "I suppose it _is_.
It's a Gilbert. He gave it me. But do you really think it compares with
this Barye? It doesn't, does it?" She directed him to another bronze of
a crouching cheetah.

So she moved him about. He was dazed. His modest supply of adjectives
proved inadequate. When she paused, he murmured:

"It's a great room you've managed to get here."

"Ah!" she cried thinly. "But you've no idea of the trouble I've had over
this room. Do you know it's really two rooms. I had to take two flats in
order to fix this room."

She was launched on a supreme topic, and George heard a full history.
She would not have a house. She would have a flat. She instructed
house-agents to find for her the best flat in London. There was no best
flat in London. London landlords did not understand flats, which were
comprehended only in Paris. The least imperfect flats in London were two
on a floor, and as their drawing-rooms happened to be contiguous on
their longer sides, she had the idea of leasing two intolerable flats so
as to obtain one flat that was tolerable. She had had terrible
difficulties about the central heating. No flats in London were
centrally heated except in the corridors and on the staircases. However,
she had imposed her will on the landlord, and radiators had appeared in
every room. George had a vision of excessive wealth subjugating the
greatest artists and riding with implacable egotism over the customs and
institutions of a city obstinately conservative. The cost and the
complexity of Irene Wheeler's existence amazed and intimidated
George--for this double flat was only one of her residences. He wondered
what his parents would say if they could see him casually treading the
oak parquetry and the heavy rugs of the resplendent abode. And then he
thought, the humble and suspicious upstart: "There must be something
funny about her, or she wouldn't be asking _me_ here!"

They went in to dinner, without ceremony. George was last, the hostess
close to his side.

"Who's the Frenchman?" he inquired casually, with the sudden boldness
that often breaks out of timidity. "I didn't catch."

"It's Monsieur Defourcambault," said Miss Wheeler in a low voice of
sincere admiration. "He's from the Embassy. A most interesting man. Been
everywhere. Seen everything. Read everything. Done everything."

George could not but be struck by the ingenuous earnestness of her tone,
so different from the perfunctory accents in which she had catalogued
her objects of art.

The dining-room, the dinner, and the service of the dinner were equally
superb. The broad table seemed small in the midst of the great
mysterious chamber, of which the illumination was confined by shades to
the centre. The glance wandering round the obscurity of the walls could
rest on nothing that was not obviously in good taste and very costly.
The three men-servants, moving soundless as phantoms, brought burdens
from a hidden country behind a gigantic screen, and at intervals in the
twilight near the screen could be detected the transient gleam of the
white apron of the mulatto, whose sex clashed delicately and piquantly
with the grave, priest-like performances of the male menials. The table
was of mahogany covered with a sheet of plate-glass. A large gold
épergne glittered in the middle. Suitably dispersed about the rim of the
board were six rectangular islands of pale lace, and on each island lay
a complete set of the innumerable instruments and condiments necessary
to the proper consumption of the meal. Thus, every diner dined
independently, cut off from his fellows, but able to communicate with
them across expanses of plate-glass over mahogany. George was confused
by the multiplicity of metal tools and crystal receptacles--he alone had
four wine-glasses--but in the handling of the tools he was saved from
shame by remembering the maxim--a masterpiece of terse clarity worthy of
a class which has given its best brains to the perfecting of the
formalities preliminary to deglutition: "Take always from the outside."

The man from the French Embassy sat on the right of the hostess, and
George on her left. George had Lois Ingram on his left. Laurencine was
opposite her sister. Everard Lucas, by command of the hostess, had taken
the foot of the table and was a sort of 'Mr. Vice.' The six people were
soon divided into two equal groups, one silent and the other talkative,
the talkative three being M. Defourcambault, Laurencine and Lucas. The
diplomatist, though he could speak diplomatic English, persisted in
speaking French. Laurencine spoke French quite perfectly, with exactly
the same idiomatic ease as the Frenchman. Lucas neither spoke nor
understood French--he had been to a great public school. Nevertheless
these three attained positive loquacity. Lucas guessed at words, or the
Frenchman obliged with bits of English, or Laurencine interpreted.
Laurencine was far less prim and far more girlish than at the Café
Royal. She kept all the freshness of her intensely virginal quality, but
she was at ease. Her rather large body was at ease, continually restless
in awkward and exquisite gestures; she laughed at ease, and made fun at
ease. She appeared to have no sex-consciousness, nor even to suspect
that she was a most delightful creature. The conversation was disjointed
in its gaiety, and had no claim to the attention of the serious.
Laurencine said that Lucas ought really to know French. Lucas said he
would learn if she would teach him. Laurencine said that she would teach
him if he would have his first lesson instantly, during dinner. Lucas
said that wasn't fair. Laurencine said that it was. Both of them
appealed to M. Defourcambault. M. Defourcambault said that it was fair.
Lucas said that there was a plot between them, but that he would consent
to learn at once if Laurencine would play the piano for him after
dinner. Laurencine said she didn't play. Lucas said she did. M.
Defourcambault, invoked once again, said that she played magnificently.
Laurencine blushed, and asked M. Defourcambault how he could!... And so
on, indefinitely. It was all naught; yet the taciturn three, smiling
indulgently and glancing from one to another of the talkers, as taciturn
and constrained persons must, envied that peculiar ability to maintain a
rush and gush of chatter.

George was greatly disappointed in Lois. In the period before dinner his
eyes had avoided her, and now, since they sat side by side, he could not
properly see her without deliberately looking at her: which he would not
do. She gave no manifestation. She was almost glum. Her French, though
free, was markedly inferior to Laurencine's. She denied any interest in
music. George decided, with self-condemnation, that he had been
deliberately creating in his own mind an illusion about her; on no other
hypothesis could either his impatience to meet her to-night, or his
disappointment at not meeting her on the night of the Café Royal dinner,
be explained. She was nothing, after all. And he did not deeply care for
Miss Irene Wheeler, whom he could watch at will. She might be concealing
something very marvellous, but she was dull, and she ignored the finer
responsibilities of a hostess. She collected many beautiful things; she
had some knowledge of what they were; she must be interested in them--or
why should she trouble to possess them? She must have taste. And yet had
she taste? Was she interested in her environment? A tone, a word, will
create suspicion that the exhibition of expertise for hours cannot
allay. George did not like the Frenchman. The Frenchman was about
thirty--small, thin, fair, with the worn face of the man who lives
several lives at once. He did not look kind; he did not look reliable;
and he offered little evidence in support of Miss Wheeler's ardent
assertion that he had been everywhere, seen everything, read everything,
done everything. He assuredly had not, for example, read Verlaine, who
was mentioned by Miss Wheeler. Now George had read one or two poems of
Verlaine, and thought them unique; hence he despised M. Defourcambault.
He could read French, in a way, but he was incapable of speaking a
single word of it in the presence of compatriots; the least
mono-syllable would have died on his lips. He was absurdly envious of
those who could speak two languages; he thought sometimes that he would
prefer to be able to speak two languages than to do anything else in the
world; not to be able to speak two languages humiliated him intensely;
he decided to 'take up French seriously' on the morrow; but he had
several times arrived at a similar decision.

If Lois was glum, George too was glum. He wished he had not come to the
dinner; he wished he could be magically transported to the solitude of
his room at the club. He slipped into a reverie about the Marguerite
affair. Nobody could have divined that scarcely twenty-four hours
earlier he had played a principal part in a tragedy affecting his whole
life. He had borne the stroke better than he otherwise would have done
for the simple reason that nobody knew of his trouble. He had not to
arrange his countenance for the benefit of people who were aware what
was behind the countenance. But also he was philosophical. He recognized
that the Marguerite affair was over. She would never give way, and he
would never give way. She was wrong. He had been victimized. He had
behaved with wisdom and with correctness (save for the detail of
throwing the ring into the Thames). Agg's warnings and injunctions were
ridiculous. What could he have done that he had not done? Run away with
Marguerite, carry her off? Silly! No, he was well out of the affair. He
perceived the limitations of the world in which Marguerite lived. It was
a world too small and too austere for him. He required the spaciousness
and the splendour of the new world in which Irene Wheeler and the
Ingrams lived. Yea, though it was a world that excited the sardonic in
him, he liked it. It flattered authentic, if unsuspected, appetites in
him. Still, the image of Marguerite inhabited his memory. He saw her as
she stood between himself and old Haim in the basement of No. 8. He
heard her.... She was absolutely unlike any other girl; she was so
gentle, so acquiescent. Only she put her lover second to her father....
What would Miss Wheeler think of the basement of No. 8?

The chatterers, apropos of songs in musical comedies, were talking about
a French popular song concerning Boulanger.

"You knew Boulanger, didn't you, Jules?" Miss Wheeler suggested.

M. Defourcambault looked round, content. He related in English how his
father had been in the very centre of the Boulangist movement, and had
predicted disaster to the General's cause from the instant that Madame
de Bonnemain came on the scene. (Out of consideration for the girls, M.
Defourcambault phrased his narrative with neat discretion.) His
grandfather also had been of his father's opinion, and his grandfather
was in the Senate, and had been Minister at Brussels.... He affirmed
that Madame de Bonnemain had telegraphed to Boulanger to leave Paris at
the very moment when his presence in Paris was essential, and Boulanger
had obediently gone. He said that he always remembered what his mother
had said to him: a clever woman irregularly in love with a man may make
his fortune, but a stupid woman is certain to ruin it. Finally he
related how he, Jules Defourcambault, had driven the General's carriage
on a famous occasion through Paris, and how the populace in its frenzy
of idolatry had even climbed on to the roof of the carriage.

"And what did you do, then?" George demanded in the hard tone of a
cross-examiner.

"I drove straight on," said M. Defourcambault, returning George's cold
stare.

This close glimpse into history--into politics and passion--excited
George considerably. He was furiously envious of M. Defourcambault, who
had been in the middle of things all his life, whose father, mother, and
grandfather were all in the middle of things. M. Defourcambault had an
immense and unfair advantage over him. To whatever heights he might
rise, George would never be in a position to talk as M. Defourcambault
talked of his forbears. He would always have to stand alone, and to
fight for all he wanted. He could not even refer to his father. He
scorned M. Defourcambault because M. Defourcambault was not worthy of
his heritage. M. Defourcambault was a little rotter, yet he had driven
the carriage of Boulanger in a crisis of the history of France! Miss
Wheeler, however, did not scorn M. Defourcambault. On the contrary, she
looked at him with admiration, as though he had now proved that he had
been everywhere, seen everything, and done everything. George's mood was
black. He was a nobody; he would always be a nobody; why should he be
wasting his time and looking a fool in this new world?


II


After dinner, in the drawing-room which had cost Irene Wheeler an extra
flat, there was, during coffee, a certain amount of general dullness,
slackness, and self-consciousness which demonstrated once more Miss
Wheeler's defects as a hostess. Miss Wheeler would not or could not act
as shepherdess and inspirer to her guests. She reclined, and charmingly
left them to manufacture the evening for her. George was still
disappointed and disgusted; for he had imagined, very absurdly as he
admitted, that artistic luxuriousness always implied social dexterity
and the ability to energize and reinvigorate diversion without apparent
effort. There were moments during coffee which reminded him of the
maladroit hospitalities of the Five Towns.

Then Everard Lucas opened the piano, and the duel between him and
Laurencine was resumed. The girl yielded. Electric lights were adjusted.
She began to play, while Lucas, smoking, leaned over the piano. George
was standing by himself at a little distance behind the piano. He had
perhaps been on his way to a chair when suddenly caught and immobilized
by one of those hazards which do notoriously occur--the victim never
remembers how--in drawing-rooms. Hands in pockets, he looked aimlessly
about, smiling perfunctorily, and wondering where he should settle or
whether he should remain where he was. In the deep embrasure of the
large east bow-window Lois was lounging. She beckoned to him, not with
her hand but with a brief, bright smile--she smiled rarely--and with a
lifting of the chin. He responded alertly and pleasurably, and went to
sit beside her. Such invitations from young women holding themselves
apart in obscurity are never received without excitement and never
unanswered.

Crimson curtains of brocaded silk would have cut off the embrasure
entirely from the room had they been fully drawn, but they were not
fully drawn; one was not drawn at all, and the other was only half
drawn. Still, the mere fact of the curtains, drawn or undrawn, did
morally separate the embrasure from the _salon_; and the shadows
thickened in front of the window. The smile had gone from Lois's face,
but it had been there. Sequins glittered on her dark dress, the line of
the low neck of which was distinct against the pallor of the flesh.
George could follow the outlines of her slanted, plump body from the
hair and freckled face down to the elaborate shoes. The eyes were half
closed. She did not speak. The figure of Laurencine, whose back was
towards the window, received an aura from the electric light immediately
over the music-stand of the piano. She played brilliantly. She played
with a brilliance that astonished George.... She was exceedingly clever,
was this awkward girl who had not long since left school Her body might
be awkward, but not her hands. The music radiated from the piano and
filled the room with brightness, with the illusion of the joy of life,
and with a sense of triumph. To George it was an intoxication.

A man-servant entered with a priceless collection of bon-bons, some of
which he deferentially placed on a small table in the embrasure. To do
so he had to come into the embrasure, disturbing the solitude, which had
already begun to exist, of Lois and George. He ignored the pair. His
sublime indifference seemed to say: "I am beyond good and evil." But at
the same time it left them more sensitively awake to themselves than
before. The hostess indolently muttered an order to the man, and in
passing the door on his way out he extinguished several lights. The
place and the hour grew romantic. George was impressed by the scene, and
he eagerly allowed it to impress him. It was, to him, a marvellous
scene; the splendour of the apartment, the richly attired girls, the
gay, exciting music, the spots of high light, the glooms, the glimpses
everywhere of lovely objects. He said to himself: "I was born for this."

Lois turned her head slowly and looked out of the window.

"Wonderful view from here," she murmured.

George turned his head. The flat was on the sixth story. The slope of
central London lay beneath. There was no moon, but there were stars in a
clear night. Roofs; lighted windows; lines of lighted traffic; lines of
lamps patterning the invisible meadows of a park; hiatuses of blackness;
beyond, several towers scarcely discernible against the sky--the towers
of Parliament, and the high tower of the Roman Catholic Cathedral: these
were London.

"You haven't seen it in daytime, have you?" said Lois.

"No. I'd sooner see it at night."

"So would I."

The reply, the sympathy in it, the soft, thrilled tone of It, startled
him. His curiosity about Lois was being justified, after all. And he was
startled too at the extraordinary surprises of his own being. Yesterday
he had parted from Marguerite; not ten years ago, but yesterday. And now
already he was conscious of pleasure, both physical and spiritual, in
the voice of another girl heard in the withdrawn obscurity of the
embrasure. Yes, and a girl whom he had despised! Yesterday he had
seriously believed himself to be a celibate for life; he had dismissed
for ever the hope of happiness. He had seen naught but a dogged and
eternal infelicity. And now he was, if not finding happiness, expecting
it. He felt disloyal--less precisely to Marguerite than to a vanished
ideal. He felt that he ought to be ashamed. And of this speketh
claudyan and sayth that alle thoo thynges that the Ayer goth
aboute and enuyronned.

And alle thynge that the erthe laboureth/ Alle thyngys that ben
conteyned wyth in the see Alle thynges that the floodes brynge
forth/
Alle thynges that ben nourysshid and alle the bestes that ben vnder
the heuen shall departe alle from the world/ And alle shall goo at
his comandement/ As well Kynges Prynces and alle that the world
enuyronned and gooth aboute/ Alle shall goo this waye/ Than he ought
not to doubte for fere of deth.

For as well shail dye the ryche as the poure/ deth maketh alle
thynge lyke and putteth alle to an ende/ And therof made a noble
versifier two versis whiche folowe Forma. genus. mores.
sapi[=e]cia. res. et honores/ Morte ruant subita sola manent
merita/
Wherof the english is Beaulte. lignage. maners. wysedom. thynges &
honoures/ shal ben deffetid by sodeyn deth/ no thynge shal abide
but the merites/ And herof fynde we in Vitas patrum. that ther was
an erle a riche & noble man that had a sone onely/ and whan this
sone was of age to haue knowlech of the lawe/ he herde in a sermone
that was prechid that deth spareth none/ ne riche ne poure/ and as
well dyeth y'e yonge as the olde/ and that the deth ought specially
to be doubted for .iii.
causes/ one was/ y't noman knoweth whan he cometh/ and the seconde/
ner in what state he taketh a man/ And the thirde he wote neuer
whither he shall goo.

Therfore eche man shold dispise and flee the world and lyue well and
hold hym toward god And when this yong man herde this thynge/
he wente oute of his contrey and fledde vnto a wyldernesse vnto an
hermytage/ and whan his fader had loste hym he made grete sorowe/
and dyde do enquere & seke hym so moche at last he was founden in the
hermitage/ and than his fader cam theder to hym and sayde/ dere sone
come from thens/ thou shalt be after my deth erle and chyef of my
lignage/ I shall be lost yf thou come not out from thens/ And he than
that wyste non otherwise to eschewe the yre of his fader bethought hym
and sayde/ dere fader ther is in your centre and lande a right euyll
custome yf hit plese yow to put that away I shall gladly come out of
this place and goo with yow The fader was glad and had grete Ioy
And dema[=u]ded of hym what hit was And yf he wold telle hym he
promysid him to take hit away and hit shold be left and sette aparte.

Than he sayde dere fader ther dyen as well the yong folk in your
contrey as the olde/
do that away I pray yow/ Whan his fader herde that he sayde Dere
sone that may not be ner noman may put that away but god only/ Than
answerd the sone to the fader/ than wylle I serue hym and dwelle
here wyth hym that may do that.

And so abode the childe in the hermytgage & lyuyd there in good
werkes After this hit apperteyneth to a labourer to entende to his
laboure and flee ydlenes/ And thou oughtest to knowe that Dauid
preyseth moche in the sawlter the treve labourers and sayth/ Thou
shalt ete the labour of thyn handes and thou art blessid/ and he
shall do to the good And hit behoueth that the labourer entende to
his labour on the werkedayes for to recuyell and gadre to gyder the
fruyt of his labour/ And also he ought to reste on the holy day/
bothe he and his bestes.

And a good labourer ought to norysshe and kepe his bestes/ And this
is signefied by the rodde that he hath.

Whiche is for to lede and dryue them to the pasture/ The fiste
pastour that euer was/ was Abel whiche was Iuste and trewe/ and
offryd to god the bestes vnto his sacrefice/ And hym ought he to
folowe in craft & maners But no man that vseth the malice of Caym
may ensue and folowe Abel/ And thus hit apperteyneth to the labourer
to sette and graffe trees and vygnes/ and also to plante and cutte
them And so dyde noe whiche was the first that planted the vygne
after y'e deluge and flood For as Iosephus reherceth in y'e book
of naturell thinges Noe was he that fonde fyrst the vygne/
And he fonde hym bitter and wylde/ And therfore he toke .iiii.
maners of blood/ that is to wete the blood of a lyon. the blood of
a lamb, the blood of a swyne. and the blood of an ape and medlid
them alto geder with the erthe/ And than he cutte the vygne/ And
put this aboute the rootes therof.

To thende that the bitternes shold be put away/ and that hyt shold be
swete/ And whan he had dronken of the fruyt of this vygne/
hit was so good and mighty that he becam so dronke/ that he dispoylled
hym in suche wise y't his pryuy membres might be seen/ And his yongest
sone cham mocqued and skorned hym And whan Noe was awakid & was
sobre & fastinge/ he assemblid his sones and shewid to them the
nature of the vygne and of the wyn/ And told to them the caufe why
y't he had put the blood of the bestes aboute the roote of the vygne
and that they shold knowe well y't otherwhile by y'e strength of
the wyn men be made as hardy as the lyon and yrous And otherwhile
they be made symple & shamefast as a lambe And lecherous as a fwyn/
And curyous and full of playe as an Ape/ For the Ape is of suche
nature that whan he seeth one do a thynge he enforceth hym to doo
the same/ and so doo many whan they ben dronke/ they will medle
them wyth alle officers & matiers that apperteyne no thynge to them/
And whan they ben fastynge & sobre they can scarfely accomplisshe
theyr owne thynges And therfore valerian reherceth that of auncyente
and in olde tyme women dranke no wyn for as moche as by dronkenship
they myght falle in ony filthe or vilonye And as Ouide sayth/ that
the wyns otherwhyle apparaylle the corages in suche manere that
they ben couenable to alle synnes whiche take away the hertes to
doo well/ They make the poure riche/ as longe as the wyn is in his
heed And shortly dronkenshyp is the begynnynge of alle euyllys/ And
corrompith the body/ and destroyed the fowle and mynusshith the
goodes temporels/ And this suffyseth for the labourer.

[Illustration]

_The seconde chapitre of the thirde tractate treteth of the forme and maner
of the second pawne and of the maner of smyth_.

The seconde pawne y't standeth to fore the knyght on the right side
of the kynge hath the forme and figure of a man as a smyth and that
is reson For hit apperteyneth to y'e knyghtes to haue bridellys
sadellys spores and many other thynges made by the handes of smythes
and ought to holde an hamer in his right hande.

And in his lyfte hand a dolabre and he ought to haue on his gyrdell
a trowell For by this is signefied all maner of werkemen/ as
goldsmithes. marchallis, smithes of all forges/
forgers and makers of monoye & all maner of smythes ben signefyed
by [55] the hamer/ The carpenters ben signefyed by the dolabre or
squyer/
And by the trowell we vnderstande all masons & keruars of stones/
tylers/ and alle them that make howses castels & tours/ And to alle
these crafty men hit apperteyneth that they be trewe. wise and
stronge/
and hit is nede y't they haue in hemself faith and loyaulte/ For
vnto the goldsmythes behoueth gold & siluer And alle other metallys.
yren & steel to other/ And vnto the carpenters and masons/ ben put
to theyr edifices the bodyes and goodes of the peple/ And also men
put in the handes of the maronners body and goodes of the peple/
And in the garde and sewerte of them men put body & sowle in the
paryls of the see/ and therfore ought they to be trewe/ vnto whom
men commytte suche grete charge and so grete thynges vpon her fayth
and truste.

And therfore sayth the philosopher/ he that leseth his fayth and beleue/
may lose no gretter ne more thynge.

And fayth is a fouerayn good and cometh of the good wyll of the herte
and of his mynde And for no necessite wyll deceyue no man/ And is not
corrupt for no mede. Valerius reherceth that Fabius had receyuyd of
hanybal certayn prysoners that he helde of the romayns for a certayn
some of money whiche he promysid to paye to the sayd hanyball/ And whan
he cam vnto the senatours of rome and desired to haue y'e money lente
for hem They answerd that they wold not paye ner lene And than fabius
sente his sone to rome & made hym to selle his heritage & patrimonye/
and fente the money that he resseyuyd therof vnto hanibal/ And had
leuer & louyd better to be poure in his contrey of herytage/ than
of byleue and fayth/ But in thyfe dayes hit were grete folye to
haue fuche affiance in moche peple but yf they had ben preuyd afore
For oftentymes men truste in them by whom they ben deceyuyd at theyr
nede/ And it is to wete that these crafty men and werkemen ben
souerainly prouffitable vnto the world And wyth oute artificers and
werkmen the world myght not be gouerned/ And knowe thou verily that
alle tho thynges that ben engendrid on the erthe and on the see/
ben made and formed for to do prouffit vnto the lignage of man/ for
man was formed for to haue generacion/ that the men myght helpe and
prouffit eche other And here in ought we to folowe nature/ For she
shewed to vs that we shold do comyn prouffit one to an other/ And
y'e first fondement of Iustice is that no man shold noye or greue
other But that they ought doo the comyn prouffit/ For men saye in
reproche That I see of thyn/ I hope hit shall be myn But who is he
in thyse dayes that entendeth more to the comyn prouffit than to
his owne/ Certaynly none/ But all way a man ought to haue drede and
feere of his owne hows/ whan he seeth his neyghbours hous a fyre
And therfore ought men gladly helpe the comyn prouffit/ for men
otherwhile sette not be a lityll fyre And might quenche hit in the
begynnyng/ that afterward makyth a grete blasyng fyre.

And fortune hath of no thinge so grete playsir/ as for to torne & werke
all way/ And nature is so noble a thynge that were as she is she
wyll susteyne and kepe/ but this rewle of nature hath fayllid longe
tyme/ how well that the decree sayth that alle the thynges that ben
ayenst the lawe of nature/ ought to be taken away and put a part
And he sayth to fore in the .viii. distinction that the ryght lawe
of nature differenceth ofte tymes for custome & statutes establisshid/
for by lawe of nature all thinge ought to be comyn to euery man/
and this lawe was of old tyme And men wene yet specially y't the
troians kept this lawe And we rede that the multitude of the Troians
was one herte and one sowle/ And verayly we fynde that in tyme
passid the philosophres dyde the same/ And also hit is to be supposyd
that suche as haue theyr goodes comune & not propre is most acceptable
to god/ For ellys wold not thise religious men as monkes freris
chanons obseruantes & all other auowe hem & kepe the wilfull pouerte
that they ben professid too/ For in trouth I haue my self ben
conuersant in a religio'9 hous of white freris at gaunt Which haue
all thynge in comyn amonge them/ and not one richer than an other/
in so moche that yf a man gaf to a frere .iii. d or .iiii. d to
praye for hym in his masse/ as sone as the masse is doon he deliuerith
hit to his ouerest or procuratour in whyche hows ben many vertuous
and deuoute freris And yf that lyf were not the beste and the most
holiest/ holy church wold neuer suffre hit in religion And acordynge
thereto we rede in plato whiche sayth y't the cyte is well and
Iustely gouernid and ordeyned in the whiche no man maye saye by
right, by cuftome. ne by ordenance/ this is myn/ but I say to the
certaynly that syn this custome cam forth to say this is myn/ And
this is thyn/ no man thought to preferre the comyn prouffit so moche
as his owen/ And alle werkemen ought to be wise & well aduysyd so
that they haue none enuye ne none euyll suspecion one to an other/
for god wylle that our humayne nature be couetous of two thynges/
that is of Religion.

And of wysedom/ but in this caas ben some often tymes deceyued For
they take ofte tymes religion and leue wisedom And they take wysedom
and reffuse religion And none may be vraye and trewe with oute
other For hit apperteyneth not to a wyse man to do ony thynge that
he may repente hym of hit/ And he ought to do no thynge ayenst his
wyll/ but to do alle thynge nobly, meurely.
fermely. and honestly And yf he haue enuye vpon ony. hit is folye
For he on whom he hath enuye is more honest and of more hauoir than
he whiche is so enuyous/ For a man may haue none enuye on an other/
but be cause he is more fortunat and hath more grace than hym self/
For enuye is a sorowe of corage y't cometh of dysordynance of the
prouffit of another man And knowe thou verily that he that is full
of bounte shall neuer haue enuye of an other/ But thenuyous man
seeth and thynketh alleway that euery man is more noble/ And more
fortunat that hymself And sayth alleway to hymself/ that man wynneth
more than I/ and myn neyghebours haue more plente of bestes/ and
her thynges multiplye more than myn/ and therfore thou oughtest
knowe that enuye is the most grettest dedely synne that is/ for she
tormenteth hym that hath her wythin hym/ wyth oute tormentynge or
doyng ony harme to hym/ on whome he hath enuye.

And an enuyous man hath no vertue in hymself/ for he corrumpeth
hymself for as moche as he hateth allway the welthe and vertues of
other/ and thus ought they to kepe them that they take none euyll
suspec[=o]n For a man naturally whan his affection hath suspecion
in ony man that he weneth that he doth/ hit semeth to hym verily
that it is doon.

And hit is an euyll thynge for a man to haue suspecion on hymfelf/ For
we rede that dionyse of zecyll a tyrant Was so suspecionous that he had
so grete fere and drede For as moche as he was hated of all men/
that he putte his frendes oute of theyr offices that they had/
And put other strangers in theyr places for to kepe his body/ and
chese suche as were ryght Cruell and felons/ And for fere and doubte
of the barbours/ he made hys doughters to lerne shaue and kembe/
And whan they were grete.

He wold not they shold vse ony yron to be occupied by them/ but to
brenne and senge his heeris/ and manaced them and durst not truste
in them/ And in lyke wyse they had none affiance in hym And also
he dyde do enuyronne the place where he laye wyth grete diches and
brode lyke a castell/ And he entryd by a drawbrygge whiche closyd
after hym/ And hys knyghtes laye wyth oute wyth his gardes whiche
wacchid and kept straytly thys forteresse/ And whan plato sawe thys
Dionyse kynge of cezille thus enuyronned and set aboute wyth gardes
& wacche-men for the cause of his suspecion sayd to hym openly to
fore all men kinge why hast thou don so moche euyll & harme/ that
the behoueth to be kept wyth so moche peple/
And therfore I saye that hit apperteyneth not to ony man that wylle
truly behaue hym self in his werkis to be suspecyous/ And also they
ought to be stronge and seure in theyr werkes/ And specyally they
that ben maysters and maronners on the see/ for yf they be tumerous
and ferdfull they shold make a ferde them that ben in theyr shippis/
that knowe not the paryls/ And so hit might happene that by that
drede and fere alle men shold leue theyr labour/ And so they myght
be perisshid and despeyred in theyr corages/ For a shippe is soone
perisshid and lost by a lityll tempest/ whan the gouernour faylleth
to gouerne his shippe for drede/ And can gyue no counceyll to other
than it is no meruayll/
thangh they be a ferd that ben in his gouernance/ And therfore ought
be in them strengthe force and corage/ and ought to considere the
peryls that might falle/ And the gouernour specially ought not to
doubte/ And if hit happen that ony paryll falle/ he ought to promyse
to the other good hoope/ And hit apperteyneth well/ that a man of
good and hardy corage be sette in that office/ In suche wyse that
he haue ferme and seure mynde ayenst the paryls that oftetymes
happen in the see/ and with this ought the maroners haue good and
ferme creance and beleue in god/
and to be of good reconforte & of fayr langage vnto them that he
gouerneth in suche paryls/ And this sufficeth to yow as touchynge
the labourers.

[Illustration]
_The thirde chapitre of the thirde book treteth of the office of
notaryes aduocats skryueners and drapers or clothmakers_.

The thirde pawne whiche is sette to fore the Alphyn on the right
side ought to be figured as a clerk And hit is reson that he shold
so be/ For as moche as amonge y'e comon peple of whom we speke in
thys book they plete the differencis contencions and causes otherwhile
the whiche behoueth the Alphins to gyue sentence and Iuge as Iuges
And hit is reson that the Alphin or Iuge haue his notarye/ by whom
y'e processe may be wreton/ And this pawne ought to be made and
figured in this mamere/ he muste be made like a man that holdeth
in his right hand a pair of sheres or forcetis/ and in the lifte
hand a grete knyf and on his gurdell a penuer and an ynkhorn/ and
on his eere a penne to wryte wyth And that ben the Instrumentis &
the offices that ben made and put in writynge autentyque/ and ought
to haue passed to fore the Iuges as libelles writtes condempnacions
and sentences/ And that is signefied by the scriptoire and the penne
and on that other part hit appertayneth to them to cutte cloth.
shere. dighte. and dye/ and that is signefied by the forcettis or
sheres/ and the other ought to shaue berdes and kembe the heeris/
And the other ben coupers. coryers. tawiers. skynners. bouchers and
cordwanners/ and these ben signefyed by the knyf that he holdeth
in his hand and some of thise forsayd crafty men ben named drapers
or clothmakers for so moche as they werke wyth wolle. and the
Notayres.
skynners. coryours. and cardewaners werke by skynnes and hydes/ As
parchemyn velume. peltrye and cordewan/ And the Tayllours. cutters
of cloth, weuars. fullars. dyers/ And many other craftes ocupye and
vse wulle/ And alle thyse crafty men & many other that I haue not
named/
ought to doo theyr craft and mestyer/ where as they ben duly ordeyned
Curyously and truly/ Also ther ought to be amonge thyse crafty men
amyable companye and trewe/ honest contenance/ And trouthe in their
wordes/ And hit is to wete that the notaries ben right prouffitable
and ought to be good & trewe for the comyn And they ought to kepe
them fro appropriynge to themself that thynge y't apperteyneth to
the comyn And yf they be good to them self/ they ben good to other.

And yf they be euyll for themself/ they ben euyll for other And the
processes that ben made to fore the Iuges ought to ben wreton &
passid by them/ and hit is to wete that by their writynge in the
processis may come moche prouffit And also yf they wryte otherwyse than
they ought to doo/ may ensewe moche harme and domage to the comyn
Therfore ought they to take good heede that they change not ne corrumpe
in no wyse the content of the sentence. For than ben they first
forsworn And ben bounden to make amendes to them that by theyr tricherye
they haue endomaged/ And also ought they to rede visite and to knowe
the statutes. ordenances and the lawes of the cytees of the contre/
where they dwelle and enhabite/ And they ought to considere yf ther be
ony thynge therein conteyned ayenst right and reson/ and yf they
fynde ony thinge contraire/ they ought to admoneste and warne them
that gouerne/ that suche thynges may be chauged into better astate/
For custome establisshid ayenst good maners and agaynst the fayth/
ought not to be holden by right.

For as hit is sayd in the decree in the chapitre to fore/ alle ordenance
made ayenst ryght ought to be holden for nought Alas who is now that
aduocate or notaire that hath charge to wryte and kepe sentence that
putteth his entente to kepe more the comyn prouffit or as
moche as his owen/ But alle drede of god is put a back/ and they deceyue
the symple men And drawen them to the courtes disordinatly and constrayned
them to swere and make othes not couenable/ And in assemblyng
the peple thus to gyder they make moo traysons in the cytees than they
make good alyances And otherwhile they deceyue their souerayns/ whan
they may doo hit couertly For ther is no thynge at this day
that so moche greueth rome and Italye as doth the college of notaries
and aduocates publicque For they ben not of oon a corde/ Alas and in
Engeland what hurte doon the aduocats. men of lawe.
And attorneyes of court to the comyn peple of y'e royame as well in the
spirituell lawe as in the temporall/ how torne they the lawe and statutes
at their pleasir/ how ete they the peple/ how enpouere they the
comynte/ I suppose that in alle Cristendom ar not so many pletars
attorneys and men of the lawe as ben in englond onely/ for yf they
were nombrid all that lange to the courtes of the channcery kinges
benche.
comyn place. cheker. ressayt and helle And the bagge berars of the
same/
hit shold amounte to a grete multitude And how alle thyse lyue &
of whome. yf hit shold be vttrid & told/ hit shold not be beleuyd.

For they entende to theyr synguler wele and prouffyt and not to the
comyn/ how well they ought to be of good wyll to gyder/ and admoneste
and warne the cytes eche in his right in suche wise that they myght haue
pees and loue one with an other And tullius saith that frendshippe and
good wyll that one ought to haue ayenst an other for the wele of hym
that he loueth/
wyth the semblable wylle of hym/ ought to be put forth to fore alle
other thynges/ And ther is no thynge so resemblynge and lyke to the
bees that maken honye ne so couenable in prosperite and in aduersite
as is loue/ For by loue gladly the bees holden them to gyder/ And yf
ony trespace to that other anone they renne vpon the malefactour for
to punysshe hym/ And verray trewe loue faylleth neuer for wele ne for
euyll/ and the most swete and the most confortynge thynge is for to
haue a frende to whom a man may saye his secrete/ as well as to hym
self/ But verayly amytye and frendship is somtyme founded vpon som
thinge delectable And this amytye cometh of yongthe/ in the
whiche dwelleth a disordinate heete.

The firm had
taken the leading ideas of the chief tea-shop companies catering for the
million in hundreds of establishments arranged according to pattern, and
elaborated them with what is called in its advertisements 'cachet.' Its
prices were not as cheap as those of the popular houses, but they could
not be called dear. George and Lois pushed through a crowded lane of
chocolate and confectionery, past a staircase which bore a large notice:
"Please keep to the right." This notice was needed. They came at length
to the main hall, under a dome, with a gallery between the dome and the
ground. The floor was carpeted. The multitudinous small tables had
cloths, flowers, silver, and menus knotted with red satin ribbon. The
place was full of people, people seated at the tables and people walking
about. Above the rail of the gallery could be seen the hats and heads of
more people. People were entering all the time and leaving all the time.
Scores of waitresses, in pale green and white, moved to and fro like an
alien and mercenary population. The heat, the stir, the hum, and the
clatter were terrific. And from on high descended thin, strident music
in a rapid and monotonous rhythm.

"No room!" said George, feeling that he had at last got into the true
arena of the struggle for life.

"Oh yes!" said Lois, with superior confidence.

She bore mercilessly across the floor. Round the edge of the huge room,
beneath the gallery, were a number of little alcoves framed in fretted
Moorish arches of white-enamelled wood. Three persons were just emerging
from one of these. She sprang within, and sank into a wicker arm-chair.

"There is always a table," she breathed, surveying the whole scene with
a smile of conquest.

George sat down opposite to her with his back to the hall; he could
survey nothing but Lois, and the world of the mirror behind her.

"That's one of father's maxims," she said.

"What is?"

"'There is always a table.' Well, you know, there always is."

"He must be a very wise man."

"He is."

"What's his special line?"

She exclaimed:

"Don't you know father? Hasn't Miss Wheeler told you? Or Mrs. Orgreave?"

"No."

"But you must know father. Father's 'Parisian' in _The Sunday Journal_."

Despite the mention of this ancient and very dignified newspaper, George
felt a sense of disappointment. He had little esteem for journalists,
whom Mr. Enwright was continually scoffing at, and whom he imagined to
be all poor. He had conceived Mr. Ingram as perhaps a rich cosmopolitan
financier, or a rich idler--but at any rate rich, whatever he might be.

"Of course he does lots of other work besides that. He writes for the
_Pall Mall Gazette_ and the _St. James's Gazette._ In fact it's his
proud boast that he writes for all the gazettes, and he's the only man
who does. That's because he's so liked. Everybody adores him. I adore
him myself. He's a great pal of mine. But he's very strict."

"Strict?"

"Yes," she insisted, rather defensively. "Why not? I should like a
strawberry ice, and a lemon-squash, and a millefeuille cake. Don't be
alarmed, please. I'm a cave-woman. You've got to get used to it."

"What's a cave-woman?"

"It's something primitive. You must come over to Paris. If father likes
you, he'll take you to one of the weekly lunches of the Anglo-American
Press Circle. He always does that when he likes anyone. He's the
Treasurer.... Haven't you got any millefeuille cakes?" she demanded of
the waitress, who had come to renew the table and had deposited a basket
of various cakes.

"I'm afraid we haven't, miss," answered the waitress, not comprehending
the strange word any better than George did.

"Bit rowdy, isn't it?" George observed, looking round, when the waitress
had gone.

Lois said with earnestness:

"I simply love these big, noisy places. They make me feel alive."

He looked at her. She was very well dressed--more stylistic than any
girl that he could see in the mirror. He could not be sure whether or
not her yellow eyes had a slight cast; if they had, it was so slight as
to be almost imperceptible. There was no trace of diffidence in them;
they commanded. She was not a girl whom you could masculinely protect.
On the contrary, she would protect not only herself but others.

"Haven't you cream?" she curtly challenged the waitress, arriving with
ice, lemon-squash, and George's tea.

The alien mercenary met her glance inimically for a second, and then,
shutting her lips together, walked off with the milk. At Prosser's the
waitresses did not wear caps, and were, in theory, ladies. Lois would
have none of the theory; the waitress was ready to die for it and
carried it away with her intact. George preferred milk to cream, but he
said nothing.

"Yes," Lois went on. "You ought to come to Paris. You have been, haven't
you? I remember you told me. We're supposed to go back next week, but if
Irene doesn't go, I shan't." She frowned.

George said that positively he would come to Paris.

When they had fairly begun the rich, barbaric meal, Lois asked abruptly:

"Why did you write in the middle of the night?"

Sometimes her voice was veiled.

"Why did I write in the middle of the night? Because I thought I would."
He spoke masterfully. He didn't mean to stand any of her cheek.

"Oh!" she laughed nicely. "_I_ didn't mind. I liked it--awfully. It was
just the sort of thing I should have done myself. But you might tell me
all about it. I think I deserve that much, don't you?"

Thus he told her all about it--how he had arranged everything, got a
room, meant to have his name painted on the door, meant to make his
parents take their holiday on the north-east coast for a change, so that
he could study the site, meant to work like a hundred devils, etc. He
saw with satisfaction that the arrogant, wilful creature was impressed.

She said:

"Now listen to me. You'll win that competition."

"I shan't," he said. "But it's worth trying, for the experience--that's
what Enwright says."

She said:

"I don't care a fig what Enwright says. You'll win that competition. I'm
always right when I sort of feel--you know."

For the moment he believed in the miraculous, inexplicable intuitions of
women.

"Oh!" she cried, as the invisible orchestra started a new tune. "Do you
know that? It's the first time I've heard it in London. It's the
_machiche_. It's all over Paris. I think it's the most wonderful tune in
the world." Her body swayed; her foot tapped.

George listened. Yes, it was a maddening tune.

"It is," he agreed eagerly.

She cried:

"Oh! I do love pleasure! And success! And money! Don't you?"

Her eyes had softened; they were liquid with yearning; but there was
something frankly sensual in them. This quality, swiftly revealed,
attracted George intensely for an instant.

Immediately afterwards she asked the time, and said she must go.

"I daren't keep Irene waiting," she said. Her eyes now had a hard
glitter.

In full Regent Street he put the haughty girl into Irene's automobile,
which had turned round; he was proud to be seen in the act; he privately
enjoyed the glances of common, unsuccessful persons. As he walked away
he smiled to himself, to hide from himself his own nervous excitement.
She was a handful, she was. Within her life burned and blazed. He
remembered Mr. Prince's remark: "You must have made a considerable
impression on her," or words to that effect. The startling thought
visited him: "I shall marry that woman." Then another thought: "Not if I
know it! I don't like her. I do not like her. I don't like her eyes."

She had, however, tremendously intensified in him the desire for
success. He hurried off to work. The days passed too slowly, and yet
they were too short for his task. He could not wait for the fullness of
time. His life had become a breathless race. "I shall win. I can't
possibly win. The thing's idiotic. I might.... Enwright's rather
struck." Yes, it was Mr. Enwright's attitude that inspired him. To have
impressed Mr. Enwright--by Jove, it was something!


CHAPTER IX

COMPETITION

I


On the face of the door on the third floor of the house in Russell
Square the words 'G.E. Cannon' appeared in dirty white paint and the
freshly added initials 'A.R.I.B.A.' in clean white paint. The addition
of the triumphant initials (indicating that George had kissed the rod of
the Royal Institute of British Architects in order to conquer) had put
the sign as a whole out of centre, throwing it considerably to the right
on the green door-face. Within the small and bare room, on an evening in
earliest spring in 1904, sat George at the customary large flat desk of
the architect. He had just switched on the electric light over his head.
He looked sterner and older; he looked very worried, fretful, exhausted.
He was thin and pale; his eyes burned, and there were dark patches under
the eyes; the discipline of the hair had been rather gravely neglected.
In front of George lay a number of large plans, mounted on thick
cardboard, whose upper surface had a slight convex curve. There were
plans of the basement of the projected town hall, of the ground floor,
of the building at a height of twelve feet from the ground, of the
mezzanine floor, of the first, second, third, fourth, and fifth floors;
these plans were coloured. Further, in plain black and white, there were
a plan of the roof (with tower), a longitudinal section on the central
axis, two other sections, three elevations, and a perspective view of
the entire edifice. Seventeen sheets in all.

The sum of work seemed tremendous; it made the mind dizzy; it made
George smile with terrible satisfaction at his own industry. For he had
engaged very little help. He would have been compelled to engage more,
had not the Corporation extended by one month the time for sending in.
The Corporation had behaved with singular enlightenment. Its schedules
of required accommodation (George's copy was scored over everywhere in
pencil and ink and seriously torn) were held to be admirably drawn, and
its supplementary circular of answers to questions from competitors had
displayed a clarity and a breadth of mind unusual in corporations.
Still more to the point, the Corporation had appointed a second assessor
to act with Sir Hugh Corver. In short, it had shown that it was under no
mandarin's thumb, and that what it really and seriously wanted was the
best design that the profession could produce. Mr. Enwright, indeed, had
nearly admitted regret at having kept out of the immense affair. John
Orgreave had expressed regret with vigour and candour. They had in the
main left George alone, though occasionally at night Mr. Enwright, in
the little room, had suggested valuable solutions of certain problems.
In detail he was severely critical of George's design, and he would pour
delicate satires upon the idiosyncrasy which caused the wilful boy to
'impurify' (a word from Enwright's private vocabulary) a Renaissance
creation with Saracenic tendencies in the treatment of arches and
wall-spaces.

Nevertheless Mr. Enwright greatly respected the design in its entirety,
and both he and John Orgreave (who had collected by the subterranean
channels of the profession a large amount of fact and rumour about the
efforts of various competitors) opined that it stood a fair chance of
being among the selected six or ten whose authors would be invited to
submit final designs for the final award. George tried to be hopeful;
but he could not be hopeful by trying. Ewing, who wanted to keep Vandalia
as the capital. "The arrogance of Springfield," said General Ewing,
"its presumption in claiming the seat of government, is not to be
endured; the law has been passed by chicanery and trickery; the
Springfield delegation has sold out to the internal improvement
men, and has promised its support to every measure that would gain a
vote to the law removing the seat of government."

Lincoln answered in a speech of such severity and keenness that the
House believed he was "digging his own grave;" for Ewing was a
high-spirited man who would not hesitate to answer by a challenge.

It was, in fact, only the interference of their friends which prevented
a duel at this time between Ewing and Lincoln. This speech, to many
of Lincoln's colleagues, was a revelation of his ability and
character.
"This was the first time," said General Linder, "that I began to conceive
a very high opinion of the talents and personal courage of Abraham
Lincoln."

[Illustration: A STAGE-COACH ADVERTISEMENT, 1834.

This advertisement appeared in the "Sangamo Journal" in April, 1834, and
held a place in the paper through the next three years. As the "Four
Horse Coach" ran through Sangamon town and New Salem, it doubtless had
Lincoln as a passenger now and then, but not often, probably, for the
fare from New Salem to Springfield was one dollar and twenty-five
cents, and walking, or riding upon a borrowed horse, must generally
have been preferred by Lincoln to so costly a mode of travelling.]
A few months later the "Long Nine" were again attacked, Lincoln specially
being abused. The assailant this time was a prominent Democrat, Mr.
J.B. Thomas. When he had ended, Lincoln replied in a speech which was
long known in local political circles as the "skinning of Thomas."
Enwright liked the finished drawing. He, George, could not
face a further strain. And yet he was not content.... Pooh! Who said he
could not face a further strain? Of course he could face it. If he did
not face it, his conscience would accuse him of cowardice during the
rest of his life, and he would never be able to say honestly: "I did my
level best with the thing." He snapped his fingers lightly, and in one
second had decided to finish the original perspective drawing, and in
his very finest style. He would complete it some time during the night.
In the morning it could be mounted. The drawings were to go to the north
in a case on the morrow by passenger train, and to be met at their
destination by a commissionaire common to several competitors; this
commissionaire would deliver them to the Town Clerk in accordance with
the conditions. In a few minutes George was at work, excited, having
forgotten all fatigue. He was saying to himself that he would run out
towards eight o'clock for a chop or a steak. As he worked he perceived
that he had been quite right to throw over the second drawing; he
wondered that he could have felt any hesitation; the new drawing would
be immeasurably superior.

Mr. Haim 'stepped up,' discreetly knocking, entering with dignity. The
relations between these two had little by little resumed their old,
purely formal quality. Both seemed to have forgotten that passionate
anger had ever separated them and joined them together. George was
young, and capable of oblivion. Mr. Haim had beaten him in the struggle
and could afford to forget. They conversed politely, as though the old
man had no daughter and the youth had never had a lover. Mr. Haim had
even assisted with the lettering of the sheets--not because George
needed his help, but because Mr. Haim's calligraphic pride needed to
help. To refuse the stately offer would have been to insult. Mr. Haim
had aged, but not greatly.

"You're wanted on the telephone, Mr. Cannon."

"Oh! Dash it!... Thanks!"

After all George was no longer on the staff of Lucas & Enwright, and Mr.
Haim was conferring a favour.

Down below in the big office everybody had gone except the factotum.

George seized the telephone receiver and called brusquely for attention.

"Is that Mr. Cannon?"

"Yes. Who is it?"

"Oh! It's you, George! How nice to hear your voice again!"

He recognized, but not instantly, the voice of Lois Ingram. He was not
surprised. Indeed he had suspected that the disturber of work must be
either Lois or Miss Wheeler, or possibly Laurencine. The three had been
in London again for several days, and he had known from Lucas that a
theatre-party had been arranged for that night to witness the
irresistible musical comedy, _The Gay Spark_, Lucas and M.
Defourcambault were to be of the party. George had not yet seen Lois
since her latest return to London; he had only seen her twice since the
previous summer; he had not visited Paris in the interval. The tone of
her voice, even as transformed by the telephone, was caressing. He had
to think of some suitable response to her startling amiability, and to
utter it with conviction. He tried to hold fast in his mind to the image
of the perspective with its countless complexities and the co-ordination
of them all; the thing seemed to be retreating from him, and he dared
not let it go.

If such further acquaintance would contribute nothing to your
happiness, I am sure it would not to mine. If you feel yourself in
any degree bound to me, I am now willing to release you, provided
you wish it; while, on the other hand, I am willing and even anxious
to bind you faster, if I can be convinced that it will in any
considerable degree add to your happiness.

This, indeed, is the whole question with me.

Nothing would make me more miserable than to believe you miserable--nothing
more happy than to know you were so."
Miss Owens had enough discernment to recognize the disinterestedness
of this love-making, and she refused Mr.

Lincoln's offer. She found him "deficient in those little links which make
up the chain of a woman's happiness," she said. The affair seems to
have been a rather vigorous flirtation on her part, which had
interested and perhaps flattered Mr.

Lincoln.

In the sincerity of his nature he feared he had awakened a genuine attachment,
and his notions of honor compelled him to find out. When finally
refused, he wrote a description of the affair to a friend, in which he
ridiculed himself unmercifully:

"I was mortified, it seemed to me, in a hundred different ways. My vanity
was deeply wounded by the reflection that I had so long been too
stupid to discover her intentions, and at the same time never
doubting that I understood them perfectly; and also that she, whom
I had taught myself to believe nobody else would have, had actually
rejected me with all my fancied greatness.

And, to cap the whole, I then for the first time began to suspect that I
was really a little in love with her.

But let it all go! I'll try and outlive it. Others have been made fools
of by the girls, but this can never with truth be said of me.

I most emphatically, in this instance, made a fool of myself. I have now
come to the conclusion never again to think of marrying; and for this
reason--I can never be satisfied with any one who would
be blockhead enough to have me."

LINCOLN'S POSITION IN SPRINGFIELD.

It was not long before Lincoln became a favorite figure in Springfield.
The skill, the courage, and the good-will he had shown in his
management of the bill for the removal of the capital gave him at
once, of course, special prominence.

The entire "Long Nine," indeed, were regarded by the county as its
benefactors, and throughout the summer there were barbecues and
fireworks, dinners and speeches in their honor.

"The service rendered Old Sangamon by the present delegation" was
a continually recurring toast at every gathering.

At one "sumptuous dinner" the internal improvement scheme in all
its phases was toasted again and again by the banqueters, "'The
Long Nine' of Old Sangamon--well done, good and faithful servants,"
drew forth long applause.

Among those who offered volunteer toasts at this dinner were "A. Lincoln,
Esq.," and "S.A. Douglas, Esq."
At a dinner at Athens, given to the delegation, eight formal toasts
and twenty-five volunteers are quoted in the report of the affair
in the "Sangamo Journal."

Among them were the following:

A. Lincoln. He has fulfilled the expectations of his friends and disappointed
the hopes of his enemies.

A. Lincoln.

One of nature's noblemen.

By A. Lincoln. Sangamon County will ever be true to her best interests,
and never more so than in reciprocating the good feelings of the
citizens of Athens and neighborhood.

Lincoln had not been long in Springfield before he soon was able
to support himself, a result due, no doubt, very largely to his personal
qualities and to his reputation as a shrewd politician.

Not that he made money.

The fee-book of Lincoln and Stuart shows that the returns were modest
enough, and that sometimes they even "traded out" their account.
Nevertheless it was a satisfaction to earn a livelihood so soon. Of his
peculiar methods as a lawyer at this date we know very little. Most of
his cases are utterly uninteresting. The very first year he was in
Springfield, however, he had one case which created a great sensation,
and which, so far as we know, has been overlooked entirely by his
biographers.

It is an admirable example of the way Lincoln could combine business and
politics as well as of his merciless persistency in pursuing a
man whom he believed unjust.

It seems that among the offices to be filled at the August election of
1837 was that of probate justice of the peace. One of the candidates was
General James Adams, a man who had come on from the East in the early
twenties, and who had at first claimed to be a lawyer. He had
been an aspirant for various offices, among them that of governor
of the State, but with little success. A few days before the August
election of 1837 an anonymous hand-bill was scattered about the streets.
It was an attack on General Adams, charging him with having acquired the
title to a ten-acre lot of ground near the town by the deliberate forgery
of the name of Joseph Anderson, of Fulton County, Illinois, to an
assignment of a judgment. Anderson had died, and the widow, upon going
to Springfield to dispose of the land, was surprised to find that it
was claimed by General Adams, and she employed Stuart and Lincoln to
look into the matter. The hand-bill, which went into all of the details
at great length, concluded as follows: "I have only made these
statements because I am known by many to be one of the individuals
against whom the charge of forging the assignment and slipping it into
the general's papers has been made; and because our silence might be
construed into a confession of the truth. I shall not subscribe my name;
but hereby authorize the editor of the 'Journal' to give it up to any
one who may call for it.".

After the election, at which General Adams had been elected, the
hand-bill was reproduced in the "Sangamo Journal," with a card signed
by the editor, in which he said: "To save any further remarks on this
subject, I now state that A. Lincoln, Esq., is the author of the hand-bill
in question." The same issue of the paper contained a lengthy communication
from General Adams, denying the charge of fraud.

The controversy was continued for several weeks. General Adams used,
mostly, the columns of the "Springfield Republican," filling six
columns of a single issue. He charged that the assault upon him was the
result of a conspiracy between "a knot of lawyers, doctors, and others,"
who wished to ruin his reputation. Lincoln's answers to Adams are most
emphatic. In one case, quoting several of his assertions, he pronounced
them "all as false as hell, as all this community must know." Adams's
replies were always voluminous. "Such is the turn which things have
lately taken," wrote Lincoln, "that when General Adams writes a book
I am expected to write a commentary on it." Replying to Adams's
denunciation of the lawyers, he said: "He attempted to impose himself
upon the community as a lawyer, and he actually carried the attempt so
far as to induce a man who was under the charge of murder to entrust
the defence of his life to his hands, and finally took his money and got
him hanged. Is this the man that is to raise a breeze in his favor
by abusing lawyers? ... If he is not a lawyer, he _is_ a liar; for
he proclaimed himself a lawyer, and got a man hanged by depending on
him." Lincoln concluded: "Farewell, General. I will see you again at
court, if not before--when and where we will settle the question whether
you or the widow shall have the land." The widow did get the land, but
this was not the worst thing that happened to Adams.
The climax was reached when the "Sangamo Journal" published a long
editorial (written by Lincoln, no doubt) on the controversy, and
followed it with a copy of an indictment found against Adams in
Oswego County, New York, in 1818. The offence charged in this indictment
was the forgery of a deed by Adams--"a person of evil name and fame and
of a wicked disposition."
Lincoln's victory in this controversy undoubtedly did much to impress
the community, not necessarily that he was a good lawyer, but rather
that he was a clever strategist and a fearless enemy. It was not,
in fact, as a lawyer that he was prominent in the first years after he
came to Springfield. Reëlected to the Assembly in 1838, and again in
1840, his real impress on the community was made as a politician.
The qualities which he had already shown in public life were only
strengthened as he gained experience and self-confidence. He was
the terror of the pretentious and insincere, and had a way of exposing
their shams by clever tricks which, to voters, were unanswerable arguments.
A case in point happened in 1840.

It was considered necessary, at that day, by a candidate to prove to the
farmers that he was poor and, like themselves, horny-handed. Those
politicians who wore good clothes and dined sumptuously were careful
to conceal their regard for the elegancies of life from their constituents.
One of the Democrats who in this campaign took particular pains to
decry the Whigs for their wealth and aristocratic principles was Colonel
Dick Taylor, generally known in Illinois as "ruffled-shirt
Taylor." He was a vain and handsome man, who habitually arrayed himself
as gorgeously as the fashion allowed. One day when he and Lincoln had
met in debate at a countryside gathering, Colonel Dick became
particularly bitter in his condemnation of Whig elegance.

Lincoln listened for a time, and then, slipping near the speaker,
suddenly caught his coat, which was buttoned up close, and tore it open.
A mass of ruffled shirt, a gorgeous velvet vest, and a great gold chain
from which dangled numerous rings and seals, were uncovered to the
crowd. Lincoln needed to make no further reply that day to the charge of
being a "rag baron."
Lincoln loved fair play as he hated shams; and throughout these early
years in Springfield are examples of his boldness in insisting that
friend and enemy have the chance due them. A most dramatic case of
this kind occurred at a political meeting held one evening in the
Springfield court-room, which at that date was temporarily in a hall under
Stuart and Lincoln's law office. Directly over the platform was a trap-door.
Lincoln frequently would lie by this opening during a meeting, listening
to the speeches. One evening one of his friends, E.D. Baker, in speaking
angered the crowd, and an attempt was made to "pull him down." Before
the assailants could reach the platform, however, a pair of long
legs dangled from the trap-door, and in an instant Lincoln dropped down
beside Baker, crying out, "Hold on, gentlemen, this is a land of free
speech." His appearance was so unexpected, and his attitude so determined,
that the crowd soon was quiet, and Baker went on with his speech.

In all the intellectual life of the town he took a place. With a few of
the leading young men he formed a young men's lyceum. One of his speeches
before this body has been preserved in full. Its subject is "The Perpetuation
of our Political Institutions

."[4] The speech has not, however, any of the peculiarly original
style which usually characterized his efforts.

He came immediately to be a favorite figure in all sorts of local affairs.
What he said and did on these occasions is still recollected by those
interested in them. "When the seat of government was removed from
Vandalia to Springfield in 1836," says the Rev. Peter Wallace of Chicago
"I obtained the contract of taking down the court-house to make a place
for the State House. Lincoln, with others, was present to receive the
job. 'Peter,' he said to me, 'if you succeed as well in building
houses as you have in tearing this one down, you will make your mark as
a builder.'" Mr. Wallace tells, too, of hearing Lincoln say in a speech,
at the funeral of one of their friends: "I read in a book whose
author never errs, 'Woe unto you when all men shall speak well of
you.'

Our friend will escape that woe, for he would be the exception had
he no enemies."
The most pleasing feature of his early life in the town was the way
in which he attached all classes of people to him.

He naturally, from his political importance and from his relation
to Mr.

Stuart, was admitted to the most exclusive circle of society.

But Lincoln was not received there from tolerance of his
position only.

The few members left of that interesting circle of Springfield in
the thirties are emphatic in their statements that he was recognized
as a valuable social factor.

If indifferent to forms and little accustomed to conventional usages,
he had a native dignity and self-respect which stamped him at once
as a superior man.

He had a good will, an easy adaptability to people, which made him take
a hand in everything that went on. His name appears in every list of
banqueters and merry-makers reported in the Springfield papers. He even
served as committee-man for cotillion parties. "We liked Lincoln, though
he was not gay," said one charming and cultivated old lady to me in
Springfield. "He rarely danced, he was never very attentive to ladies,
but he was always a welcome guest everywhere, and the centre of a circle
of animated talkers.

Indeed, I think the only thing we girls had against Lincoln was
that he always attracted all the men around him."

Lincoln's kindly interest and perfectly democratic feeling attached
to him many people whom he never met save on the streets.

Indeed his life in the streets of Springfield is a most touching
and delightful study.

He concerned himself in the progress of every building which was
put up, of every new street which was opened; he passed nobody
without recognition; he seemed always to have time to stop and talk.

He became, in fact, part of Springfield street life, just as he had
of the town's politics and society.

By 1840 there was no man in the town better known, better liked, more
sought for; though there were more than one whose future was considered
brighter.

* * * * *

[Footnote 1: Reminiscences of Mr.

Weir, a former resident of Sangamon County, related by E.B.
Howell of Butte, Montana.]
[Footnote 2: Summary condensed from Moses's "History of Illinois."]
[Footnote 3: The original of this letter is owned by E.R. Oeltjen of
Petersburg, Illinois.]
[Footnote 4: Lincoln's address on "The Perpetuation of Our Political
Institutions" is dated January 27, 1837, in most biographies, but it was
published in the "Sangamo Journal" of February 3, 1838.

The address is preceded by the following resolution:
"YOUNG MEN'S LYCEUM, SPRINGFIELD, _January 27, 1837[8]_.

"_Resolved_, That the thanks of this Lyceum be presented to A.
Lincoln, Esq., for the lecture delivered by him this evening, and that he
be solicited to furnish a copy for publication.

"JAS. H. MATHENY, _Secretary_"
The confusion as to the date of the delivery of this address
evidently arises from the fact that the resolution here quoted bears
the date of "1837"--a mere slip of the pen, of course. In January,
1837, Lincoln was in the legislature at Vandalia. He had not yet
become a resident of Springfield. According to Mr. Herndon, who was
a member of the Young Men's Lyceum, that society was not formed
until the fall of 1837.]

[Illustration: THE WAVE "WENT OUT IN THREE SURGES, MAKING A CLEAN SWEEP
OF A BOAT."]

THE SHIP THAT FOUND HERSELF.

BY RUDYARD KIPLING,
Author of "The Jungle Book," "Plain Tales from the Hills," etc.

It was her first voyage, and though she was only a little cargo steamer
of two thousand five hundred tons, she was the very best of her kind, the
outcome of forty years of experiments and improvements in framework
and machinery; and her designers and owners thought just as much of her
as though she had been the "Lucania." Any one can make a floating hotel
that will pay her expenses, if he only puts enough money into the saloon,
and charges for private baths, suites of rooms, and such like;
but in these days of competition and low freights every square inch
of a cargo boat must be built for cheapness, great hold capacity,
and a certain steady speed.
The jocularity pivoted unendingly on the same twin centres of
alcohol and concupiscence. Gradually the latter grew to more and more
importance, and the piece became a high and candid homage to the impulse
by force of which alone one generation succeeds another. No beautiful
and graceful young girl on the stage blenched before the salacious
witticisms of the tireless comedian; on the contrary he remained the
darling of the stage. And as he was the darling of the stage, so was he
the darling of the audience.

And if no beautiful and graceful young girl blenched on the stage,
neither did the beautiful and graceful young girls in the audience
blench. You could see them sitting happily with their fathers and
mothers and cousins and uncles and aunts, savouring the spectacle from
dim stalls and boxes in the most perfect respectability. Laurencine
leaning her elbows on the ledge of the box, watched with eager, parted
lips, and never showed the slightest sign of uneasiness.

George was uneasy; he was distressed. The extraordinary juxtaposition of
respectability and a ribald sexual display startled but did not distress
him. If the whole audience was ready to stand it he certainly was. He
had no desire to protect people from themselves, nor to blush on behalf
of others--whoever they might be. Had anybody accused him of saintliness
he would have resented the charge, quite justifiably, and if the wit of
_The Gay Spark_ had been witty, he would have enjoyed it without a
qualm. What distressed him, what utterly desolated him, was the
grossness, the poorness, the cheapness, the dullness, and the
uninventive monotony of the interminable entertainment. He yawned, he
could not help yawning; he yawned his soul away. Lois must have heard
him yawning, but she did not move. He looked at her curiously,
pitifully, speculating how much of her luxury was due to Irene Wheeler,
and how little to 'Parisian' of _The Sunday Journal_--for he had been
inquiring about the fruits of journalism. The vision of his own office
and of the perspective drawing rose seductively and irresistibly in his
mind. He could not stay in the theatre; he felt that if he stayed he
would be in danger of dropping down dead, suffocated by tedium; and the
drawing must be finished; it would not wait; it was the most urgent
thing in the world. And not a syllable had any person in the box said to
him about his great task. Lois's forearm, braceleted, lay on the front
of the box. Unceremoniously he took her hand.

"Bye-bye."

"You aren't going?" Her whisper was incredulous.

"Must."

He gave her no chance to expostulate. With one movement he had seized
his hat and coat and slid from the box, just as the finale of the act
was imminent and the red-nosed comedian was measuring the gay spark for
new _lingerie_ with a giant property-cigar. He had not said good-bye to
Laurencine. He had not asked about their departure on the morrow. But he
was free.

In the foyer a couple--a woman in a rose plush _sortie de bal_, and a
blade--were mysteriously talking. The blade looked at him, smiled, and
left the lady.

"Hal_lo_, old fellow!" It was Buckingham Smith, who had been getting on
in the world.

They shook hands.

"You've left Chelsea, haven't you?"

"Yes," said George.

"So've I. Don't see much of the old gang nowadays. Heard anything of old
Princey lately?"

George replied that he had not. The colloquy was over in a moment.

"You must come and see my show--next week," Buck Smith called out after
the departing George.

"I will," cried George.

He walked quickly up to Russell Square, impatient to steep himself anew
in his work. All sense of fatigue had left him. Time seemed to be flying
past him, and he rushing towards an unknown fate. On the previous day he
had received an enheartening, challenging, sardonic letter from his
stepfather, who referred to politics and envisaged a new epoch for the
country. Edwin Clayhanger was a Radical of a type found only in the
Midlands and the North. For many years Clayhanger's party, to which he
was passionately faithful, had had no war-cry and no programme worthy of
its traditions. The increasing success of the campaign against
Protection, and certain signs that the introduction of Chinese labour
into South Africa could be effectively resisted, had excited the
middle-aged provincial--now an Alderman--and he had managed to
communicate fire to George. But in George, though he sturdily shared his
stepfather's views, the resulting righteous energy was diverted to
architectural creation.


III


The circumstances in which, about a month later, George lunched with the
Ingram family at their flat in the Rue d'Athènes, near the Gare St.
Lazare, Paris, had an appearance of the utmost simplicity and
ordinariness. He had been down to Staffordshire for a rest, and had
returned unrested. And then Mr. Enwright had suggested that it would do
him good to go to Paris, even to go alone. He went, with no plan, but
having made careful arrangements for the telegraphing to him of the
result of the competition, which was daily expected. By this time he was
very seriously convinced that there was no hope of him being among the
selected six or ten, and he preferred to get the news away from London
rather than in it; he felt that he could not face London on the day or
the morrow of a defeat which would of course render his youthful
audacity ridiculous.

He arrived in Paris on a Wednesday evening, and took a room in a _maison
meublée_ of the Rue de Sèze. Every inexperienced traveller in Paris has
a friend who knows a lodging in Paris which he alleges is better and
cheaper than any other lodging--and which is not. The house in the Rue
de Sèze was the economical paradise of Buckingham Smith, whom George had
encountered again at the Buckingham Smith exhibition. Buckingham Smith,
with over half his pictures bearing the red seal that indicates 'Sold,'
felt justified in posing to the younger George as a cosmopolitan
expert--especially as his opinions on modern French art were changing.
George spent three solitary and dejected days in Paris, affecting an
interest in museums and architecture and French opera, and committing
follies. Near the end of the third day, a Saturday, he suddenly sent a
threepenny express note to Lois Ingram. He would have telephoned had he
dared to use the French telephone. On Sunday morning, an aproned valet
having informed him that Monsieur was demanded at the telephone, he had
to use the telephone. Lois told him that he must come to lunch, and that
afterwards he would be escorted to the races. Dejection was instantly
transformed into a gay excitation. Proud of having spoken through a
French telephone, he began to conceive romantically the interior of a
Paris home--he had seen naught but a studio or so with Mr. Enwright--and
to thrill at the prospect of Sunday races. Not merely had he never seen
a horse-race on a Sunday--he had never seen a horse-race at all. He
perhaps was conscious of a genuine interest in Lois and her environment,
but what most satisfied and flattered him, after his loneliness, was the
bare fact of possessing social relations in Paris at all.

The Ingram home was up four flights of naked oaken stairs, fairly swept,
in a plain, flat-fronted house. The door of the home was opened by a
dark, untidy, dishevelled, uncapped, fat girl, with a full apron,
dazzling white and rectangularly creased, that had obviously just been
taken out of a drawer. Familiarly and amicably smiling, she led him into
a small, modest drawing-room where were Lois and her father and mother.
Lois was enigmatic and taciturn. Mr. and Mrs. Ingram were ingenuous,
loquacious, and at ease. Both of them had twinkling eyes. Mrs. Ingram
was rather stout and grey and small, and wore a quiet, inexpensive blue
dress, embroidered at the neck in the Morrisian manner, of no kind of
fashionableness. She spoke in a low voice, smiled to herself with a
benevolence that was not without a touch of the sardonic, and often
looked at the floor or at the ceiling. Mr. Ingram, very slim and neat,
was quite as small as his wife, and seemed smaller. He talked much and
rather amusingly, in a somewhat mincing tone, as it were apologetically,
truly anxious to please. He had an extremely fair complexion, and his
youthfulness was quite startling. His golden hair and perfect teeth
might have belonged to a boy. George leapt immediately into familiarity
with these two. But nobody could have less resembled his preconceived
image of 'Parisian' than Mr. Ingram. And he could not understand a bit
whence or how such a pair had produced their daughter Lois. Laurencine
was a far more comprehensible offspring for them.

The dining-room was even less spacious than the drawing-room, and as
unpretentious. The furniture everywhere was sparse, but there were one
or two rich knick-knacks, and an abundance of signed photographs. The
few pictures, too, were signed, and they drew attention. On the table
the napkins, save George's, were in rings, and each ring different from
the others. George's napkin had the air of a wealthy, stiff, shiny
relative of the rest. Evidently in that home the long art of making both
ends meet was daily practised. George grew light-hearted and happy,
despite the supreme preoccupation which only a telegram could allay. He
had keenly the sensation of being abroad. The multiplicity of doors, the
panelling of the doors, the narrow planking of the oaken floor, the
moulding of the cornices, the shape of the windows, the view of the
courtyard from the dining-room and of attics and chimney-cowls from the
drawing-room, the closed anthracite stoves in lieu of fires, the
crockery, the wine-bottle, the mustard, the grey salt, the
unconventional gestures and smiles and exclamations of the unkempt
maid--all these strange details enchanted him, and they all set off very
vividly the intense, nice, honest, reassuring Englishness of the host
and hostess.

It was not until after the others were seated for the meal that
Laurencine made her appearance. She was a magnificent and handsome
virgin, big-boned, physically a little awkward, candid. How exquisitely
and absurdly she flushed in shaking hands with George! With what a
delicious mock-furious setting of the teeth and tossing of the head she
frowned at her mother's reproaches for being late! This family knew the
meaning of intimacy but not of ceremony. Laurencine sat down at her
father's left; George was next to her on Mrs. Ingram's right. Lois had
the whole of the opposite side of the table.

"Does he know?" Laurencine asked; and turning to George: "Do you know?"

"Know what?"

"You'd better tell him, dad. You like talking, and he ought to know. I
shan't be able to eat if he doesn't. It would be so ridiculous sitting
here and pretending."

Mrs. Ingram looked upwards across the room at a corner of the ceiling,
and smiled faintly.

"You might," she said, "begin by asking Mr. Cannon if he particularly
wants to be burdened with the weight of your secrets, my dear child."

"Oh! I particularly do," said George.

"There's no secret about it--at least there won't be soon," said
Laurencine.

Lois spoke simultaneously:

"My dear mother, please call George George. If we call him George, you
can't possibly call him Mr. Cannon."

"I quite admit," Mrs. Ingram replied to her eldest, "I quite admit that
you and Laurencine are entitled to criticise my relations with my
husband, because he's your father. But I propose to carry on my affairs
with other men just according to my own ideas, and any interference will
be resented. I've had a bad night, owing to the garage again, and I
don't feel equal to calling George George. I've only known him about
twenty minutes. Moreover, I might be misunderstood, mightn't I, Mr.
Cannon?"

"You might," said George.

"Now, dad!" Laurencine admonished.

Mr. Ingram, addressing George, began:

"Laurencine suffers from a grave form of self-consciousness----"

"I don't, dad."

"It is a disease akin to conceit. Her sufferings are sometimes so acute
that she cannot sit up straight and is obliged to loll and curl her legs
round the legs of the chair. We are all very sorry for her. The only
treatment is brutal candour, as she herself advocates----"

Laurencine jumped up, towered over her father, and covered his mouth
with her hand.

"This simple hand," said Mr. Ingram, seizing it, "will soon bear a ring.
Laurencine is engaged to be married."

"I'm not, father." She sat down again.

"Well, you are not. But you will be, I presume, by post-time to-night. A
young man of the name of Lucas has written to Laurencine this morning in
a certain sense, and he has also written to me. Laurencine has seen my
letter, and I've seen hers. But my envelope contained only one letter.
Whether her envelope contained more than one, whether the epistle which
I saw is written in the style usually practised by the present age,
whether it was composed for the special purpose of being shown to me, I
do not know, and discretion and nice gentlemanly feeling forbid me to
inquire. However----"

At this point, Laurencine snatched her father's napkin off his knees and
put it on her own.

"However, my wife and I have met this Mr. Lucas, and as our opinion
about him is not wholly unfavourable, the matter was satisfactorily and
quickly arranged--even before I had had my bath; Laurencine and I will
spend the afternoon in writing suitable communications to Mr. Lucas. I
am ready to show her mine for a shilling, but I doubt if five pounds
would procure me a sight of hers. Yet she is only an amateur writer and
I'm a professional."

There was a little silence, and then George said awkwardly:

"I congratulate old Lucas."

"This news must have astonished you extremely," observed Mr. Ingram. "It
must have come as a complete surprise. In fact you are doubtless in the
condition known to charwomen as capable of being knocked down with a
feather."

"Oh! Quite!" George agreed.

Nevertheless, in spite of his light tone, he regretted the engagement.
He did not think Lucas was worthy of the splendid girl. He felt sorry
for her. At that moment she faced him bravely, and smiled. Her face had
a tremendous deep crimson flush. There was a woman somewhere in the
girl! Strange phenomenon! The Count translated his statement, and presently
pursued: "His Illustriousness observes that, in that case, his daughter's
misconduct has been all the more reprehensible."
"Her misconduct? Of what does he accuse her?"
"Of sending you, just now, in the church of Saint Mark's, a letter
which you were seen to read openly and thrust in your bosom.

The incident was witnessed by his Illustriousness the Marquess
Zanipolo, who, in consequence, has already repudiated his unhappy
bride."

Tony stared contemptuously at the black Marquess.

"If his Illustriousness is so lacking in gallantry as to repudiate a
lady on so trivial a pretext, it is he and not I who should be the
object of her father's resentment."
"That, my dear young gentleman, is hardly for you to decide.

Your only excuse being your ignorance of our customs, it is scarcely for
you to advise us how to behave in matters of punctilio."

It seemed to Tony as though the Count were going over to his enemies,
and the thought sharpened his retort.

"I had supposed," said he, "that men of sense had much the same
behaviour in all countries, and that, here as elsewhere, a gentleman
would be taken at his word.

I solemnly affirm that the letter I was seen to read reflects in no way
on the honour of this young lady, and has in fact nothing to do
with what you suppose."

As he had himself no notion what the letter was about, this was as
far as he dared commit himself.

There was another brief consultation in the opposing camp, and the
Count then said:--"We all know, sir, that a gentleman is obliged
to meet certain enquiries by a denial; but you have at your command
the means of immediately clearing the lady.

Will you show the letter to her father?"
There was a perceptible pause, during which Tony, while appearing
to look straight before him, managed to deflect an interrogatory
glance toward Polixena.

Her reply was a faint negative motion, accompanied by unmistakable
signs of apprehension.

"Poor girl!"

he thought, "she is in a worse case than I imagined, and whatever
happens I must keep her secret."
He turned to the Senator with a deep bow.

"I am not," said he, "in the habit of showing my private correspondence
to strangers."

The Count interpreted these words, and Donna Polixena's father,
dashing his hand on his hilt, broke into furious invective, while
the Marquess continued to nurse his outraged feelings aloof.

The Count shook his head funereally. "Alas, sir, it is as I feared.
This is not the first time that youth and propinquity have led to
fatal imprudence. But I need hardly, I suppose, point out the obligation
incumbent upon you as a man of honour."
Tony stared at him haughtily, with a look which was meant for the
Marquess. "And what obligation is that?"
"To repair the wrong you have done--in other words, to marry the
lady."

Polixena at this burst into tears, and Tony said to himself: "Why
in heaven does she not bid me show the letter?"

Then he remembered that it had no superscription, and that the words
it contained, supposing them to have been addressed to himself,
were hardly of a nature to disarm suspicion.

The sense of the girl's grave plight effaced all thought of his own
risk, but the Count's last words struck him as so preposterous
that he could not repress a smile.

"I cannot flatter myself," said he, "that the lady would welcome this
solution."
The Count's manner became increasingly ceremonious.

"Such modesty," he said, "becomes your youth and inexperience; but
even if it were justified it would scarcely alter the case, as it is
always assumed in this country that a young lady wishes to marry
the man whom her father has selected."

"But I understood just now," Tony interposed, "that the gentleman yonder
was in that enviable position."
"So he was, till circumstances obliged him to waive the privilege
in your favour."

"He does me too much honour; but if a deep sense of my unworthiness
obliges me to decline--"
"You are still," interrupted the Count, "labouring under a
misapprehension.

Your choice in the matter is no more to be consulted than the lady's.

Not to put too fine a point on it, it is necessary that you should
marry her within the hour."

Tony, at this, for all his spirit, felt the blood run thin in his
veins.

He looked in silence at the threatening visages between himself and
the door, stole a side-glance at the high barred windows of the
apartment, and then turned to Polixena, who had fallen sobbing at
her father's feet.

"And if I refuse?"

said he.

He
had quite failed to imagine the race-meeting; he had imagined an
organism brilliant, perhaps, but barbaric and without form and style; he
had imagined grotesque contrasts of squalor, rascality, and fashion; he
had imagined an affair predominantly equine and masculine. The reality
did not correspond; it transcended his imagination; it painfully
demonstrated his jejune crudity. The Hippodrome was as formalized and
stylistic as an Italian garden; the only contrasts were those of one
elegance with another; horses were not to be seen, except occasionally
in the distance when under their riders they shot past some dark
background a flitting blur of primary colours with a rumble of muffled
thunder; and women, not men, predominated.

On entering the Hippodrome George and Lois had met a group of
fashionably attired women, and he had thought: "There's a bunch of jolly
well-dressed ones." But as the reserved precincts opened out before him
he saw none but fashionably attired women. They were there not in
hundreds but in thousands. They sat in rows on the grand stands; they
jostled each other on the staircases; they thronged the alleys and
swards. The men were negligible beside them. And they were not only
fashionably and very fashionably attired--all their frocks and all their
hats and all their parasols and all their boots were new, glittering,
spick-and-span; were complex and expensive; not one feared the sun. The
conception of what those innumerable chromatic toilettes had cost in the
toil, stitch by stitch, of malodorous workrooms and in the fatigue of
pale, industrious creatures was really formidable. But it could not
detract from the scenic triumph. The scenic triumph dazzlingly justified
itself, and proved beyond any cavilling that earth was a grand,
intoxicating place, and Longchamps under the sun an unequalled paradise
of the senses.... Ah! These women were finished--finished to the least
detail of coiffure, sunshade-handle, hatpin, jewellery, handbag,
bootlace, glove, stocking, _lingerie_. Each was the product of many arts
in co-ordination. Each was of great price. And there were thousands of
them. They were as cheap as periwinkles. George thought: "This is
Paris."

He said aloud:

"Seems to be a fine lot of new clothes knocking about."

Evidently for Lois his tone was too impressed, not sufficiently casual.
She replied in her condescending manner, which he detested:

"My poor George, considering that this is the opening of the spring
season, and the place where all the new spring fashions are tried
out--what did you expect?"

The dolt had not known that he was assisting at a solemnity recognized
as such by experts throughout the clothed world. But Lois knew all those
things. She herself was trying out a new toilette, for which doubtless
Irene Wheeler was partly sponsor. She could hold her own on the terraces
with the rest. She was staggeringly different now from the daughter of
the simple home in the Rue d'Athènes.

The eyes of the splendid women aroused George's antipathy, because he
seemed to detect antipathy in them--not against himself but against the
male in him. These women, though by their glances they largely
mistrusted and despised each other, had the air of having combined
sexually against a whole sex. The situation was very contradictory. They
had beautified and ornamented themselves in order to attract a whole
sex, and yet they appeared to resent the necessity and instinct to
attract. They submitted with a secret repugnance to the mysterious and
supreme bond which kept the sexes inexorably together. And while
stooping to fascinate, while deliberately seeking attention, they still
had the assured mien of conquerors. Their eyes said that they knew they
were indispensable, that they had a transcendent role to play, that no
concealed baseness of the inimical sex was hidden from them, and that
they meant to exploit their position to the full. These Latin women
exhibited a logic, an elegance, and a frankness beyond the reach of the
Anglo-Saxon. Their eyes said not that they had been disillusioned, but
rather that they had never had illusions. They admitted the facts; they
admitted everything--economic dependence, chicane, the intention to
seize every advantage, ruthless egotism. They had no shame for a
depravity which they shared equally with the inescapable and cherished
enemy And it was the youngest who, beneath the languishing and the
softness and the invitation deceitful and irresistible, gazed outmost
triumphantly to the enemy: "You are the victims. We have tried our
strength and your infirmity." They were heroic. There was a feeling in
the bright air of melancholy and doom as the two hostile forces,
inseparable, inextricably involved together, surveyed the opponent in
the everlasting conflict. George felt its influence upon himself, upon
Lois, upon the whole scene. The eyes of the most feminine women in the
world, denying their smiles and their lure, had discovered to him
something which marked a definite change in his estimate of certain
ultimate earthly values.

Lois said:

"Perhaps a telegram is waiting for you at the hotel."

"Well, I can wait till I get back," he replied stoutly.

He thought, looking at her by his side:

"She is just like these Frenchwomen!" And for some reason he felt proud.

"You needn't," said Lois, "We can telephone from under the grand stand
if you like."

"But I don't know the number."

"We can get that out of the book, of course."

"I don't reckon I can use these French telephones."

"Oh! My poor boy, I'll telephone for you--unless you prefer not to risk
knowing the worst."

Yes, her tone was the tone of a strange woman. And it was she who
thirsted for the result of the competition.

Controlling himself, submissively he asked her to telephone for him, and
she agreed in a delightfully agreeable voice. She seemed to know the
entire geography of the Hippodrome. She secured a telephone-cabin in a
very business-like manner. As she entered the cabin she said to George:

"I'll ask them if a telegram has come, and if it has I'll ask them to
open it and read it to me, or spell it--of course it'll be in
English.... Eh?"

Through the half-open door of the cabin he watched her, and listened.
She rapidly turned over the foul and torn pages of the telephone-book
with her thumb. She spoke into the instrument very clearly, curtly, and
authoritatively. George could translate in his mind what she said--his
great resolve to learn French had carried him so far.

"On the part of Monsieur Cannon, one of your clients, Monsieur Cannon of
London. Has there arrived a telegram for him?"

She waited. The squalor of the public box increased the effect of her
young and proud stylishness and of her perfume. George waited, humbled
by her superior skill in the arts of life, and saying anxiously to
himself: "Perhaps in a moment I shall know the result," almost
trembling.

She hung up the instrument, and, with a glance at George, shook her
head.

"There isn't anything," she murmured.

He said:

"It's very queer, isn't it? However..."

As they emerged from the arcana of the grand stand, Lois was stopped by
a tall, rather handsome Jew, who, saluting her with what George esteemed
to be French exaggeration of gesture, nevertheless addressed her in a
confidential tone in English. George, having with British restraint
acknowledged the salute, stood aside, and gazed discreetly away from the
pair. He could not hear what was being said. After several minutes Lois
rejoined George, and they went back into the crowds and the sun. She did
not speak. She did not utter one word. Only, when the numbers went up
for a certain race, she remarked:

"This is the Prix du Cadran. It's the principal race of the afternoon."

And when that was over, amid cheering that ran about the field like fire
through dried bush, she added:

"I think I ought to go back now. I told the chauffeur to be here after
the Prix du Cadran. What time is it exactly?"

They sat side by side in the long, open car, facing the chauffeur's
creaseless back. After passing the Cascade, the car swerved into the
Allée de Longchamps which led in an absolutely straight line, two miles
long, to the Port Maillot and the city. Spring decorated the magnificent
wooded thoroughfare. The side-alleys, aisles of an interminable nave,
were sprinkled with revellers and lovers and the most respectable
families half hidden amid black branches and gleams of tender green.
Automobiles and carriages threaded the main alley at varying speeds. The
number of ancient horse-cabs gradually increased until, after the
intersection of the Allée de la Reine Marguerite, they thronged the vast
road. All the humble and shabby genteel people in Paris who could
possibly afford a cab seemed to have taken a cab. Nearly every cab was
overloaded. The sight of this vast pathetic effort of the disinherited
towards gaiety and distraction and the mood of spring, intensified the
vague sadness in George due to the race-crowd, Lois's silence, and the
lack of news about the competition.

At length Lois said, scowling--no doubt involuntarily:

"I think I'd better tell you now. Irene Wheeler's committed suicide.
Shot herself." She pressed her lips together and looked at the road.

George gave a startled exclamation. He could not for an instant credit
the astounding news.

"But how do you know? Who told you?"

"The man who spoke to me in the grand stand. He's correspondent of _The
London Courier_--friend of father's of course."

George protested:

"Then why on earth didn't you tell me before?... Shot herself! What
for?"

"I didn't tell you before because I couldn't."

All the violence of George's nature came to the surface as he said
brutally:

"Of course you could!"

"I tell you I couldn't!" she cried. "I knew the car wouldn't be there
for us until after the Prix du Cadran. And if I'd told you I couldn't
have borne to be walking about that place three-quarters of an hour. We
should have had to talk about it. I couldn't have borne that. And so you
needn't be cross, please."

But her voice did not break, nor her eyes shine.

"I was wondering whether I should tell the chauffeur at once, or let him
find it out."

"I should let him find it out," said George. "He doesn't know that you
know. Besides, it might upset his driving."

"Oh! I shouldn't mind about his driving," Lois murmured disdainfully.


V


When the uninformed chauffeur drove the car with a grand sweep under the
marquise of the ostentatious pale yellow block in the Avenue Hoche where
Irene Wheeler had had her flat, Mr. Ingram and a police-agent were
standing on the steps, but nobody else was near. Little Mr. Ingram came
forward anxiously, his eyes humid, and his face drawn with pain and
distress.

"We know," said Lois. "I met Mr. Cardow at Longchamps. He knew."

Mr. Ingram's pain and distress seemed to increase.

He said, after a moment:

"Alfred will drive you home, dear, at once. _Alfred, vous seriez gentil
de reconduire Mademoiselle à la rue d'Athènes."_ He had the air of
supplicating the amiable chauffeur. "Mr. Cannon, I particularly want a
few words with you."

"But, father, I must come in!" said Lois. "I must----"

"You will go home immediately. Please, please do not add to my
difficulties. I shall come home myself as quickly as possible. You can
do nothing here. The seals have been affixed."

Lois raised her chin in silence.

Then Mr. Ingram turned to the police-agent, spoke to him in French, and
pointed to the car persuasively; and the police-agent permissively
nodded. The chauffeur, with an affectation of detachment worthy of the
greatest days of valetry, drove off, leaving George behind. Mr. Ingram
descended the steps.

"I think, perhaps, we might go to a café," said he in a tone which
dispersed George's fear of a discussion as to the propriety of the
unchaperoned visit to the races.

They sat down on the _terrasse_ of a large café near the Place des
Ternes, a few hundred yards away from the Avenue Hoche. The café was
nearly empty, citizens being either in the Bois or on the main
boulevards. Mr. Ingram sadly ordered bocks. The waiter, flapping his
long apron, called out in a loud voice as he went within: "_Deux blonds,
deux._" George supplied cigarettes.

"Mr. Cannon," began Mr. Ingram, "it is advisable for me to tell you a
most marvellous and painful story. I have only just heard it. It has
overwhelmed me, but I must do my duty." He paused.

"Certainly," said George self-consciously, not knowing what to say. He
nearly blushed as, in an attempt to seem at ease, he gazed negligently
round at the rows of chairs and marble tables, and at the sparse traffic
of the somnolent Place.

Mr. Ingram proceeded.

"When I first knew Irene Wheeler she was an art student here. So was I.
But I was already married, of course, and older than she. Exactly what
her age was I should not care to say. I can, however, say quite
truthfully that her appearance has scarcely altered in those nineteen
years. She always affirmed that her relatives, in Indianapolis, were
wealthy--or at least had money, but that they were very mean with her.
She lived in the simplest way. As for me, I had to give up art for
something less capricious, but capricious enough in all conscience. Miss
Wheeler went to America and was away for some time--a year or two. When
she came back to Paris she told us that she had made peace with her
people, and that her uncle, whom for present purposes I will call Mr. Joye
and victorye upon your Enemyes/ Right highe puyssant and redoubted
prynce/.

For as moche as I haue understand and knowe/ that y'e are enclined unto
the comyn wele of the kynge our sayd saueryn lord. his nobles
lordes and comyn peple of his noble royame of Englond/ and that y'e
sawe gladly the Inhabitants of y'e same enformed in good. vertuous.
prouffitable and honeste maners.

In whiche your noble persone wyth guydyng of your hows haboundeth/ gyuyng
light and ensample unto all other/ Therfore I haue put me in deuour to
translate a lityll book late comen in to myn handes out of frensh
in to englisshe/ In which I fynde thauctorites. dictees.
and stories of auncient Doctours philosophes poetes and of other
wyse men whiche been recounted & applied unto the moralite of the
publique wele as well of the nobles as of the comyn peple after the
game and playe of the chesse/ whiche booke right puyssant and
redoubtid lord I haue made in the name and under the shadewe of
your noble protection/
not presumyng to correcte or enpoigne ony thynge ayenst your
noblesse/.

For god be thankyd your excellent renome shyneth as well in strange
regions as with in the royame of england gloriously unto your honour
and lande/ which god multeplye and encrece But to thentent that other
of what estate or degre he or they stande in may see in this sayd
lityll book/ yf they gouerned themself as they ought to doo/ wherfor my
right dere redoubted lord I requyre & supplye your good grace not to
desdaygne to resseyue this lityll sayd book in gree and thanke/ as well
of me your humble and unknowen seruant as of a better and gretter man
than I am/.
For the right good wylle that I haue had to make this lityll werk in the
best wyse I can/ ought to be reputed for the fayte and dede/ And for
more clerely to procede in this sayd book I haue ordeyned that the
chapitres ben sette in the begynnynge to thende that y'e may see more
playnly the mater wherof the book treteth &c.

[PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION.]

The holy appostle and doctour of the peple saynt Poule sayth in his
epystle. Alle that is wryten is wryten unto our doctryne and for our
lernyng. Wherfore many noble clerkes haue endeuoyred them to wryte and
compyle many notable werkys and historyes to the ende that it myght come
to the knowlege and vnderstondyng of suche as ben ygnoraunt.

Of which the nombre is infenyte/ And accordyng to the same saith Salamon.
that the nombre of foles. is infenyte/ And emong alle other good werkys.
It is a werke of ryght special recomendacion to enforme and to
late vnderstonde wysedom and vertue vnto them that be not lernyd
ne can not dyscerne wysedom fro folye.

Th[=e]ne emonge whom there was an excellent doctour of dyuynyte in the
royame of fraunce of the ordre of thospytal of Saynt Johns of Jherusalem
which entended the fame and hath made a book of the chesse
moralysed. which at suche tyme as J was resident in brudgys in the counte
of Flaundres cam in to my handes/ which whan J had redde and ouerseen/
ne semed ful necessarye for to be had in englisshe/
And in eschewyng of ydlenes And to thende that s[=o]me which haue not
seen it/ ne understonde frenssh ne latyn I delybered in my self to
translate it in to our maternal tongue/ And whan I so had achyeued the
sayd translacion/ I dyde doo sette in enprynte a certeyn nombre of
theym/
Whiche anone were depesshed and folde. wherfore by cause thys sayd
book is ful of holsom wysedom and requysyte unto every astate and
degree/ J haue purposed to enprynte it/ shewyng therin the figures
of suche persons as longen to the playe.

Jn whom al astates and degrees ben comprysed/ besechyng al them
that this litel werke shal see/ here/ or rede to have me for excused
for the rude & symple makyng and reducyn in to our englisshe/ And
where as is defaute to correcte and amende/ and in so doyng they
shal deserve meryte and thanke/ and I shal pray for them/
that god of his grete mercy shal rewarde them in his everlastyng
blisse in heven/ to the whiche he brynge us/ that wyth his precious
blood redemed us Amen 

[TABLE.]

This booke conteyneth .iiii. traytees/

The first traytee is of the Invencion of this playe of the chesse,/ and
conteyneth .iii. chapitres
The first chapitre is under what kynge this play was founden
The .ii. chapitre/ who fonde this playe
The .iii. chapitre/ treteth of .iii. causes why hit was made and
founden
The second traytee treteth of the chesse men/ and conteyneth
.v.
chapitres
The first chapitre treteth of the form of a kynge and of suche
thinges as apperteyn to a kynge
The .ii. chapitre treteth of y'e quene & her forme & maners
The .iii. chapitre of the forme of the alphins and her offices and
maners
The .iiii. chapitre is of the knyght and of his offices
The .v. is of the rooks and of their maners and offices
The thirde traytee is of the offices of the comyn peple And hath
.viii.
chapitres
The first chapitre is of the labourers & tilinge of the erthe
The .ii. of fmythis and other werkes in yron & metall
[43] The .iii. is of drapers and makers of cloth & notaries
The .iiii. is of marchantes and chaungers
[44] The .v. is of phisicyens and cirugiens and apotecaries
[45] The .vi. is of tauerners and hostelers
[46] The .vii. is of y'e gardes of the citees & tollers & cuftomers

[47] The .viii. is of ribauldes disepleyars and currours The
.iiii.
traytee is of the meuyng and yssue of them And hath .viii. chapitres
The first is of the eschequer
The seconde of the yssue and progression of the kynge
The thirde of the yssue of the quene
The fourth is of the yssue of the alphyns
The fifth is of the yssue of the knyghtes
The sixty chapitre of the yssue of the rooks
The seuenth is of the meuynge & yssue of the comyn peple
And the eyght and laste chapitre is of the epilegacion.

And of the recapitulacion of all these forsaid chapitres.

BOOK I.

[Illustration]
_This first chapiter of the first tractate sheweth under what kynge the
play of the chesse was founden and maad.:._

Amonge all the euyll condicions and signes that may be in a man
the first and y'e grettest is whan he feereth not/ ne dredeth to displese
and make wroth god by synne/ and the peple by lyuyng disordynatly/
whan he reccheth not/ ner taketh hede unto them that repreue hym
and his vices/ but fleeth them/ In suche wyse as dide the emperour
Nero/ whiche dide do slee his maister seneque For as moche as he
might not suffre to be repreuid and taught of hym In lyke wyse was
somtyme a kynge in babiloine that was named Evilmerodach a Jolye
man with oute Justice and so cruell that he dyde do hewe his faders
body in thre honderd pieces/
And gaf hit to ete and deuour to thre honderd birdes that men calle
wultres And was of suche condicion as was Nero/ And right well
resemblid and was lyke unto his fader Nabogodonosor/ whiche on a
tyme wold do flee alle the sage and wyse men of babylonye/ For as
moche as they coude not telle hym his dreme that he had dremed on
a nyght and had forgoten hit lyke as it is wreton in the bible in
the book of danyell/ Under this kynge than Evilmerodach was this
game and playe of the chesse founden/
Trewe it is that some men wene/ that this playe was founden in the
tyme of the bataylles & siege of troye But that is not soo For this
playe cam to the playes of the caldees as dyomedes the greek sayth
and reherceth That amonge the philosophrs was the most renomed playe
amonge all other playes/ And after that/ cam this playe in the tyme
of Alixandre the grete in to Egipte And so unto alle the parties
toward the south/ And the cause wherfore thys playe was so renomed
shall be sayd in the thirde chapitre.

[Illustration]

_This second chapitre of the first tra3tate sheweth who fonde first
the playe of the chesse._
Thys playe fonde a phylosopher of Thoryent whiche was named in
Caldee Exerses or in greke philometor/ which is as moche to saye
in english as he that loveth Justice and mesure/ And this philosopher
was renomed gretly amonge the grekes and them of Athenes whiche
were good clerkys and philosophers also renomed of theyr connynge.

This philosopher was so Juste and trewe that he had leuyr dye/ than
to lyue longe and be a fals flaterer wyth the sayd kynge.

For whan he behelde the foull and synfull lyf of the kynge/
And that no man durst blame hym.

For by his grete cruelte he putte them alle to deth that displesid
hym/ he put hym self in paryll of deth/ And louyd and chees rather
to dye than lenger to lyue: The euyll lyf and diffamed of a kynge
is the lyf of a cruell beste/ And ought not longe to be susteyned/
For he destroyeth hym that displesith hym/ And therfore reherceth
valerius/ that ther was a wise man named theodore cerem whom his
kynge dyde do hange on the crosse for as moche as he repreuyd hym
of his euyll & fowll lyf And all way as he was in the torment he
said to y'e kynge/ upon thy counceyllours & them that ben cladd in
thy clothynge & robes were more reson that this torment shold come/
For as moche as they dar not saye to the The trouthe for to do
Justice right wysly/ of my self I make no force whether I dye on
the lande or on the water or otherwyse &c as who sayth he recched
not to dye for Justice/ In lyke wyse as democreon the philosophre
put out his owen eyen be cause he wold not see that no good myght
come to the euyll and vicyous peple wyth out right And also defortes
the philosophre as he went toward his deth/ his wyf that folowed
after hym saide that he was dampned to deth wrongfully/ than he
answerd and sayd to her/ holde thy peas and be styll/ hit is better
and more merytorye to dye by a wronge and unrightfull Jugement/
than that I had deseruyd to dye.

[Illustration.]
_The thirde chapitre of the first tractate treteth wherfore
the playe was founden and maad._

The causes wherfore this playe was founden ben thre/ the first was for to
correcte and repreue the kynge .For whan this kynge Evilmerodach
sawe this playe And the barons knyghtes and gentillmen of his court playe
wyth the philosopher/ he meruaylled gretly of the beaulte and nouelte of
the playe/ And desired to playe agaynst y'e philosopher/ The philosopher
answerd and sayd to hym that hit myght not be doon. But yf he first lerned
the playe/ The kynge said hit was reson and that he wold put him to the
payne to lerne hit Than the philosopher began to teche hym and to
shewe hym the maner of the table of the chesse borde and the chesse
meyne/ And also the maners and condicions of a kynge of the nobles and
of the comun peple and of theyr offices and how they shold be touchid
and drawen. And how he shold amende hymself & become vertuous
And whan this kynge herde that he repreuyd hym/ He demanded hym upon
payne of deth to tell hym wherfore he had founden and made this playe/
And he answerd my ryght dere lord and kynge/ the grettest and most thinge
that I desire is that thou haue in thy self a gloryous and
vertuous lyf And that may I not see/ but yf thou be endoctrined
and well manerd and that had/ so mayst thou be belouyd of thy peple
Thus than I desire y't thou haue other gouernement than thou hast
had/ And that thou haue upon thy self first seygnorye and maistrye
suche as thou hast upon other by force and not by right Certaynly
hit is not ryght that a man be mayster ouer other and comandour/
whan he can not rewle ner may rewle himself and that his vertues
domyne aboue his vices/.

For seygnourye by force and wylle may not longe endure/ Than thus may thou
see oon of the causes why and wherfore I haue founden and maad
thys playe/ whyche is for to correcte and repent the of thy tyrannye
and vicyous lyuynge/ .For alle kynges specyally ought to here her
corrygeours or correctours and her corrections to hold and kepe in
mynde/ In lyke wyse as Valerius reherceth that the kynge Alixandre
had a noble and renomed knyght that sayd in repreuynge of Alixandre
that he was to moche couetous and in especyall of the honours of
the world/ And sayd to hym yf the goddes had maad thy body as greet
as is thy herte Alle the world coude not holde the/.

For thou holdest in thy right hand alle the Oryent/ And in thy lyfte
hande the occident/ syn than hit is so/ or thou art a god or a man
or nought/ yf thou be god doo than well and good to the peple as god
doth/ And take not from them that they ought to haue and is theyres.
yf thou be a man/ thinke that thou shalt dye/ And than thou shalt
doo noon euyll/ yf thou be nought forgete thy self/ ther is no
thynge so stronge and ferme/ but that somtyme a feble thinge casteth
doun and ouerthrowe hit How well that the lyon be the strengest
beste/ yet somtyme a lityll birde eteth hym/ The seconde cause
wherfore this playe was founden and maad/ was for to kepe hym from
ydlenesse/ whereof senecque saith unto lucylle ydlenes wyth oute
ony ocupacion is sepulture of a man lyuyng/
and varro saith in his sentences that in lyke wise as men goo not
for to goo/ the same wyse the lyf is not gyuen for to lyue but for
to doo well and good/ And therfore secondly the philosopher fonde
this playe for to kepe the peple from ydlenes/.

For there is moche peple.

Whan so is that they be fortunat in worldly goodes that they drawe them
to ease and ydlenes wherof cometh ofte tymes many euyllys and grete
synnes And by this ydlenes the herte is quenchid wherof cometh
desperacion/ The thirde cause is that euery man naturelly desireth
to knowe and to here noueltees and tydynges.

For this cause they of atthenes studyed as we rede/ and for as the
corporall or bodyly fight enpessheth and letteth otherwhyle the
knowleche of subtyll thinges/ therfore we rede that [48] democrion
the phylosopher put oute his owen eyen/ for as moche as he myght
haue the better entendement and understondynge/ Many haue ben made
blynde that were grete clerkis in lyke wyse as was dydymus bisshop
of Alixandrye/ that how well that he sawe not yet he was so grete
a clerk/
that gregore nazan & saynt Ierome that were clerkes and maystres
to other/ came for to be his scolers & lerned of hym And saynt
Anthonie The grete heremyte cam for to see hym on a tyme/ and amonge
all other thynges/ he demanded hym yf he were not gretly displesid
that he was blynde and sawe not.

And he answerd that he was gretly abasshid for that he supposid
not that he was not displesid in that he had lost his sight/
And saynt Anthonye answerd to hym I meruayle moche that hit displesith
the that thou hast lost that thynge whiche is comyn betwene the and
bestes.

And thou knowest well that thou hast not loste that thynge that is comyn
bitwene the and the angellis And for thise causes forsayd the
philosopher entended to put away alle pensisnes and thoughtes/ and
to thinke only on this playe as shall be said & appere in this book
after.

BOOK II.

[Illustration]
_The seconde tractate/ the first chapiter treteth of the forme of a kynge
of his maners and of his estate_.

The kynge must be thus maad. For he must sitte in a chayer clothed
in purpure/ crowned on his heed in his ryght hand a ceptre and in the
lyfte hande an apple of gold/. For he is the most grettest and hyest
in dignyte aboue alle other and most worthy. And that is signefyed by
the corone/. For the glorye of the peple is the dignite of the kynge/
And aboue all other the kynge ought to be replenysshid with vertues
and of grace/ and thys signefieth the purpure. For in lyke wyse as the
robes of purpure maketh fayr & enbelysshith the body/ the same wise
vertues maketh the sowle/ he ought alleway thenke on the gouernement
of the Royame and who hath thadmynystracion of Justice/ And thys shuld
be by hym self pryncipally. This signefieth the appell of gold that he
holdeth in his lyfte honde/ And for as moche as hit apperteyneth unto
hym to punysshe the rebelles hath he y'e sceptre in his right hand And
for as moche as mysericorde and trouthe conserue and kepe the kynge in
his trone/ Therfore ought a kynge to be mercyfull and debonayr For
whan a kynge or prynce desired or will be belouyd of his peple late
hym be gouerned by debonarite And valerius saith that debonairte
percyth the hertes of straungers and amolisshith and maketh softe
the hertes of his enemyes/ wherof he reherceth that philostratus
that was due of athenes had a doughter/ whom a man louyd so ardantly/
that on a tyme as he sawe her wyth her moder/ sodaynly he cam and
kyssed her/ wherof the moder was so angry and soroufull that she
wente and requyred of her lord the duc/
that his heed myght be smyten of/ The prynce answerd to her and
sayde/
yf we shold slee them that loue us/ what shall we doo to our enemyes
that hate us/ Certaynly this was thanswer of a noble & debonair
prynce That suffred that villonye don to his doughter and to hymself
yet more This prince had also a frende that was named Arispe that
sayd on a tyme as moche villonye unto the prynce as ony man miht
saye And that might not suffise hym/ but he scracchid hym in the
visage/ The prynce suffryd hym paciently in suche wyse as thowh he
had doon to hym no vilonye but curtoysye And whan his sones wold
haue auengid this vilonye/ he comanded them that they shold not be
so hardy so to do The next day folowyng arispe remembrid of the
right grete vilonye that he had don to his frende and lord wythoute
cause.

He fyll in dispayr and wold haue slayn hym self/ whan the duc knewe and
understode that/ he cam to hym and sayd ne doubte the nothynge And swore
to hym by his fayth/ that also well he was and shold be his frende
fro than forthon as euery he had ben to fore yf he wold And thus
he respited hym of his deth by his debonairte.

And in lyke wyse rede we of the kynge pirre to whom was reported
that they of tarente had said grete vilonye of hym.

For whiche cause he maad alle them to come to fore hym And demanded
of them yf they had so sayd. Than oon of them answerd and sayd/ yf the
wyn and the candellys had not fayllyd/ thys langage had ben but a Iape/
In regarde of that we had thought to haue doon/ Than the kynge began to
lawhe/ for they had confessid that suche langage as was sayd and
spoken was by dronkenship/
And for this cause of debonairte the peple of tarante toke for a custome
that the dronken men shold be puuysshyd/ And the sobre men preyfed. The
kynge than thus ought to loue humylyte and hate falsite after the
holy scripture that speketh of euery man generally/ For the kynge
in his royame representeth god/ And god is verite/ And therfore hym
ought to saye no thynge but yf hit were veritable and stable.

Valerius reherceth that Alixandre wyth alle his ooste rood for to destroye
a cyte whyche was named lapsare/ whan than a phylosophre whiche
had to name Anaximenes which had ben to fore maistre & gouernour of
Alixandre herd and understood of his comyng Cam agayn Alixandre
for to desire and requyre of hym.

And whan he sawe Alixandre he supposid to haue axid his requefte/ Alixandre
brake his demande to fore and swore to hym to fore he axid ony thynge by
his goddes. That suche thynge as he axid or requyryd of hym/ he wold
in no wyse doon/ Than the philosopher requyred hym to destroye
the cyte/ whan Alixandre understood his desire/ and the oth that he
had maad/ he suffrid the cyte to stande and not to be destroyed
For he had leuer doo his wyll than to be periured and forsworn and
doo agaynst his oth/ Quyntilian saith that no grete man ne lord
shold not swere/ but where as is grete nede/ And that the symple
parole or worde of a prynce ought to be more stable than the oth
of a marcha[=u]t/ Alas how kepe the prynces their promisses in thise
dayes/
not only her promises but their othes her fealis and wrytynges &
signes of their propre handes/ alle faylleth god amende hit &c.

A kynge also ought to hate alle cruelte/ For we rede that neuer yet
dyed ony pietous persone of euyll deth ne cruell persone of good
deth Therfore recounteth valerius that ther was a man named theryle
a werke-man in metall/ that made a boole of coppre and a lityll
wyket on the side/ wherby men myght put in them that shuld be brent
therin/ And hit was maad in suche manere/ that they that shold be
put and enclosid therin shold crye nothinge lyke to the wys of a
man but of an oxe.

(Nevertheless he did
consider that he was a youthful prodigy. He could recall no architect in
history who had done what he had done at his age.) The town clerk who
travelled from the North to see him treated his age in a different
manner, the patronizing. He did not care for the town clerk. However,
the town clerk was atoned for by the chairman of the new town hall
sub-committee, a true human being named Soulter, with a terrific accent
and a taste for architecture, pictures, and music. Mr. Soulter, though
at least forty-five, treated George, without any appearance of effort,
as a coeval. George immediately liked him, and the mere existence of Mr.
Soulter had the effect of dissipating nearly all George's horrible
qualms and apprehensions about his own competence to face the
overwhelming job of erection. Mr. Soulter was most soothing in the
matter of specifications and contractors.

"So you've got into your new room," said John Orgreave.

Never before had he mounted to see George either in the new room or in
the old room. The simple fact of the presence there of one of the
partners in the historic firm below compensated for much teasing sarcasm
and half-veiled jealousy. It was a sign. It was a seal authenticating
renown.

"Yes."

"I only wanted to give you a message from Adela. The Ingram young woman
is staying with us----"

"Lois?" The name shot out of him unbidden.

"Yes. You're humbly supplicated to go to tea to-day. Four o'clock. Thank
God I've not forgotten it!"

George arrived fifty-five minutes late at Bedford Park. Throughout the
journey thither he kept repeating: "She said I should do it. And I've
done it! I've done it! I've done it!" The triumph was still so close
behind him that he was constantly realizing it afresh, and saying,
wonder-struck: "I've done it." And the miraculous phantasm of the town
hall, uplifted in solid stone, formed itself again and again in his
enchanted mind, against a background of tremendous new ambitions rising
endlessly one behind another like snowy alps.

"Is this what you call four o'clock?" twittered Adela, between cajolery
and protest, somewhat older and facially more artificial, but eternally
blonde; still holding her fair head on one side and sinuously waving the
palm.

"Sorry! Sorry! I was kept at the last moment by a journalist johnny."

"Oh! Of course!" said Adela, pooh-poohing with her lips. "Of course we
expect that story nowadays!"

"Well, it was a chap from the _Builder_, or I wouldn't have seen him.
Can't trifle with a trade paper, you know."

He thought:

"She's like the rest of them, as jealous as the devil."

Then Lois came into the room, hatted and gloved, in half-mourning. She
was pale, and appreciably thinner; she looked nervous, weak, and weary.
As he shook hands with her he felt very self-conscious, as though in
winning the competition and fulfilling her prophecy he had done
something dubious for which he ought to apologize. This was exceedingly
strange, but it was so. She had been ill after the death of Irene
Wheeler. Having left Paris for London on the day following the races, he
had written to her about nothing in particular, a letter which meant
everything but what it said--and had received an answer from Laurencine,
who announced that her sister was in bed, and likely to be in bed; and
that father and mother wished to be remembered to him. Then he wrote to
Laurencine. When the result of the final competition was published he
had written again to Lois. It seemed to him that he was bound to do so,
for had she not willed and decided his victory? No reply; but there had
scarcely been time for a reply.

"Did you get my letter?" he smiled.

"This afternoon," she said gravely. "It followed me here. Now I have to
go to Irene's flat. I should have been gone in another minute."

"She _will_ go alone," Adela put in anxiously.

"I shall be back for dinner," said Lois, and to the stupefaction of
George she moved towards the door.

But just as she opened the door she turned her head and, looking at
George with a frown, murmured:

"You can come with me if you like."

Adela burst out:

"He hasn't had any tea!"

"I'm not urging him to come, my dear. Good-bye."

Adela and George exchanged a glance, each signalling to the other that
perhaps this sick, strange girl ought to be humoured. He abandoned the
tea.... He was in the street with Lois. He was in the train with her.
Her ticket was in his pocket. He had explained to her why he was late,
and she had smiled, amiably but enigmatically. He thought: "She's no
right to go on like this. But what does it matter?" She said nothing
about the competition--not a word of congratulation. Indeed she hardly
spoke beyond telling him that she had to choose some object at the flat.
He was aware of the principal terms of Irene's will, which indeed had
caused the last flutter of excitement before oblivion so quickly
descended upon the notoriety of the social star. Irene's renown had
survived her complexion by only a few short weeks. The will was of a
rather romantic nature. Nobody familiar with the intimate circumstances
would have been surprised if Irene had divided her fortune between Lois
and Laurencine. The bulk of it, however, went back to Indianapolis. The
gross total fell far short of popular estimates. Lois and Laurencine
received five thousand pounds apiece, and in addition they were
requested to select each an object from Irene's belongings--Lois out of
the London flat, Laurencine out of the Paris flat. Lois had come to
London to choose, and she was staying with Adela, the sole chaperon
available. Since the death of Irene, Mrs. Ingram had been excessively
strict in the matter of chaperons.

They took a hansom at Victoria. Across the great square, whose leaves
were just yellowing, George saw the huge block of flats, and in one
story all the blinds were down. Lois marched first into the lift,
masterfully, as though she inhabited the block. She asked no one's
permission. Characteristically she had an order from the solicitors, and
the keys of the flat. She opened the door without any trouble. They were
inside, within the pale-sheeted interior. Scarcely a thing had yet been
moved, for, with the formalities of the judicatures of France, England,
and the State of Indiana to be complied with, events marched slowly
under the sticky manipulation of three different legal firms. Lois and
George walked cautiously across the dusty, dulled parquets into the vast
drawing-room. George doffed his hat.

"I'd better draw the blinds up," he suggested.

"No, no!" she sharply commanded. "I can see quite well. I don't want any
more light."

There was the piano upon which Laurencine had played! The embrasure of
the window! The corner in which Irene had sat spellbound by Jules
Defourcambault! The portraits of Irene, at least one of which would
perpetuate her name! The glazed cases full of her collections!... The
chief pieces of furniture and all the chairs were draped in the pale,
ghostly sheeting.

Suddenly Lois, rushing to the mantelpiece, cried:

"This is what I shall take."

It was a large photograph of Jules Defourcambault, bearing the words:
"_À Miss Irene Wheeler. Hommages respectueux de_ J.D.F."

"You won't!" he exclaimed, incredulous, shocked. He thought: "She is
mad!"

"Yes, I shall."

There were hundreds of beautiful objects in the place, and she chose a
banal photograph of a despicable creature whom she detested.

"Why don't you take one of _her_ portraits? Or even a fan. What on earth
do you want with a thing like that?" His voice was changing.

"I shall take it and keep it for ever. He was the cause of it all. This
photograph was everything to her once."

George revolted utterly, and said with cold, harsh displeasure:

"You're simply being morbid. There's no sense in it."

She dropped down into a chair, and the impress of her body dragged the
dust-sheet from its gilt arms, exposing them. She put her face in her
hands and sobbed.

"You're awfully cruel!" she murmured thickly.

The sobs continued, shaking her body. She was beautifully dressed. Her
shoes were adorable, and the semi-transparent hose over her fine ankles.
She made a most disturbing, an unbearable, figure of compassion. She
needed wisdom, protection, guidance, strength. Every bit of her seemed
to appeal for these qualities. But at the same time she dismayed. He
moved nearer to her. Yes, she had grandeur. All the costly and valuable
objects in the drawing-room she had rejected in favour of the
satisfaction of a morbid and terrible whim. Who could have foreseen it?
He moved still nearer. He stood over her. He seized her yielding wrists.
He lifted her veil. Tears were running down her cheeks from the yellow
eyes. She looked at him through her tears.

"You're frightfully cruel," she feebly repeated.

"And what if I am?" he said solemnly. Did she really think him hard, had
she always thought him hard--she, the hard one? How strange! Yet no
doubt he was hard.

His paramount idea was:

"She had faith in me." It was as if her faith had created the man he
was. She was passionately ambitious; so was he.

And when he kissed her wet mouth, and stroked with incredible delicacy
those streaming cheeks, he felt himself full of foreboding. But he was
proud and confident.

He took her back to Bedford Park. She carried the photograph, unwrapped;
but he ventured no comment. She went straight up to her room.

"_You_ must tell Mrs. Orgreave," she said on the stairs.

Adela made a strange remark:

"Oh! But we always intended you to marry Lois!"


PART II

CHAPTER I

THE TRIUMPH

I


George came into the conjugal bedroom. The hour was about three o'clock
in the afternoon. Lois lay on the sofa at the foot of the twin beds. It
was perhaps characteristic of her that she sincerely preferred the sofa
to her bed. Sometimes in the night, when she could not sleep, she would
get up and go sighing to the sofa, and, with nothing but a slippery
eiderdown to cover her, sleep perfectly till George arose in the
morning. Quite contentedly conventional in most matters of mere social
deportment, she often resisted purely physical conventions. A bed was
the recognized machine for slumber; hence she would instinctively choose
another machine. Also, the sofa was nearer to the ground. She liked to
be near the ground. She had welcomed with ardour the first beginnings of
the new fashion which now regularly permits ladies to sit on the
hearth-rug after a ceremonial dinner and prop their backs with cushions
or mantelpieces. Doubtless a trait of the 'cave-woman' that as a girl
she had called herself!

She was now stretched on the sofa in a luxurious and expensive ribboned
muslin negligée, untidy, pale, haggard, heavy, shapeless, the expectant
mother intensely conscious of her own body and determined to maintain
all the privileges of the exacting rôle which nature had for the third
time assigned to her. Little Laurencine, aged eight, and little Lois,
aged five, in their summer white, were fondling her, tumbling about her,
burying themselves in her; she reclined careless, benignant, and
acquiescent under their tiny assaults; it was at moments as though the
three were one being. When their father appeared in the doorway, she
warned them in an apparently awed tone that father was there, and that
nursey was waiting for them and that they must run off quietly. And she
kissed them with the enormous kiss of a giantess suddenly rendered
passionate by a vast uprush of elemental feeling. And they ran off,
smiling confidently at their father, giggling, chattering about
important affairs in their intolerable, shrieking voices. George could
never understand why Lois should attempt, as she constantly did, to
instil into them awe of their father; his attitude to the children made
it impossible that she should succeed. But she kept on trying. The
cave-woman again! George would say to himself: "All women are
cave-women."

"Have you come to pack?" she asked, with fatigued fretfulness, showing
no sign of surprise at his arrival.

"Oh no!" he answered, and implied that in his over-charged existence
packing would have to be done when it could, if at all. "I only came in
for one second to see if I could root out that straw hat I wore last
year."

"Do open the window," she implored grievously.

"It is open."

"Both sides?"

"Yes."

"Well, open it more."

"It's wide open."

"Both sides?"

"Yes."

"It's so stuffy in this room," she complained, expelling much breath.

It was stuffy in the room. The room was too full of the multitudinous
belongings and furniture of wife and husband. It was too small for its
uses. The pair, unduly thrown together, needed two rooms. But the house
could not yield them two rooms, though from the outside it had an air of
spaciousness. The space was employed in complying with custom, in
imitating the disposition of larger houses, and in persuading the tenant
that he was as good as his betters. There was a basement, because the
house belonged to the basement era, and because it is simpler to burrow
than to erect. On the ground floor were the hall--narrow, and the
dining-room--narrow. To have placed the dining-room elsewhere would have
been to double the number of stairs between it and the kitchen;
moreover, the situation of the dining-room in all such correct houses is
immutably fixed by the code Thus the handiest room in the house was
occupied during four hours of the twenty-four, and wasted during the
remaining twenty. Behind the dining-room was a very small room
appointed by the code to be George's 'den.' It would never have been
used at all had not George considered it his duty to use it
occasionally, and had not Lois at intervals taken a fancy to it because
it was not hers.

The whole of the first floor was occupied by the landing, the well of
the staircase, and the drawing-room, which last was inevitably shaped in
the resemblance of an L. The small back portion of it over George's den
was never utilized save by the grand piano and rare pianists. Still, the
code demanded that the drawing-room should have this strange appendage,
and that a grand piano should reside in it modestly, apologetically,
like a shame that cannot be entirely concealed. Nearly every house in
Elm Park Road, and every house in scores of miles of other correct
streets in the West End, had a drawing-room shaped in the semblance of
an L, and a grand piano in the hinterland thereof. The drawing-room,
like the dining-room, was occupied during about four hours of the
twenty-four, and wasted during the remaining twenty.

The two main floors of the house being in such manner accounted for, the
family and its dependents principally lived aloft on the second and
third floors. Eight souls slept up there nightly. A miracle of
compression!

George had had the house for ten years; he entered it as a bridegroom.
He had stayed in it for seven years because the landlord would only
confide it to him on lease, and at the end of the seven years he lacked
the initiative to leave it. An ugly house, utterly without architectural
merit! A strange house for an architect to inhabit! George, however, had
never liked it. Before his marriage he had discovered a magnificent
house in Fitzroy Square, a domestic masterpiece of the Adams period,
exquisitely designed without and within, huge rooms and many rooms,
lovely ceilings, a forged-iron stair-rail out of Paradise; a house
appreciably nearer to the centre than the one in Elm Park Road, and with
a lower rental. George would have taken the house, had not Lois pointed
out to him its fatal disadvantage, which had escaped him, namely, that
people simply did not live in Fitzroy Square. Instantly Lois entered
Fitzroy Square, George knew himself for a blind fool. Of course the
house was impossible. He was positively ashamed to show her the house.
She admitted that it was beautiful. So Elm Park Road was finally
selected, Elm Park Road being a street where people could, and in fact
did, live. It was astounding how Lois, with her small and fragmentary
knowledge of London, yet knew, precisely and infallibly, by instinct, by
the sound of the names of the thoroughfares, by magic diabolical or
celestial, what streets were inhabitable and what were not. And
something in George agreed with her.

He now rummaged among hat-boxes beneath the beds, pulled one out, and
discovered a straw hat in it.

"Will it do?" he questioned doubtfully.

"Let me look at it."

He approached her and gave her the hat, which she carefully examined,
frowning.

"Put it on," she said.

He put it on, and she gazed at him for what seemed to him an
unnecessarily long time. His thought was that she liked to hold him
under her gaze.

"Well?" he exclaimed impatiently.

"It's quite all right," she said. "What's the matter with it? It makes
you look about fourteen." He felt envy in her voice. Then she added:
"But surely you won't be able to wear that thing to-morrow?"

"Of course not. I only want it for this afternoon.... This sun."

"Oh!" she cried. "I do think it's a shame I can't go to the Opening!
It's just my luck."

_Wednesday_.

_Journall_, I have Nobodie now but you, to whome to tell my little
Griefs; indeede, before I married, I know not that I had anie; and
even now, they are very small, onlie they are soe new, that sometimes
my Heart is like to burst.

--I know not whether 'tis safe to put them alle on Paper, onlie it
relieves for the Time, and it kills Time, and perhaps, a little While
hence I may looke back and see how small they were, and how they
mighte have beene shunned, or better borne. 'Tis worth the Triall.

--Yesterday Morn, for very Wearinesse, I looked alle over my Linen
and Mr.

_Milton's_, to see could I finde anie Thing to mend; but there
was not a Stitch amiss. I woulde have played on the Spinnette, but
was afrayd he should hear my indifferent Musick. Then, as a last
Resource, I tooke a Book--_Paul Perrin's Historie of the Waldenses_;--and
was, I believe, dozing a little, when I was aware of a continuall Whispering
and Crying. I thought 'twas some Child in the Street; and, having some
Comfits in my Pocket, I stept softlie out to the House-door and lookt
forth, but no Child could I see. Coming back, the Door of my Husband's
Studdy being ajar, I was avised to look in; and saw him, with awfulle
Brow, raising his Hand in the very Act to strike the youngest
_Phillips_. I could never endure to see a Child struck, soe hastilie
cryed out "Oh, don't!"--whereon he rose, and, as if not seeing me,
gently closed the Door, and, before I reached my Chamber, I hearde
soe loud a Crying that I began to cry too. Soon, alle was quiet; and
my Husband, coming in, stept gently up to me, and putting his Arm
about my Neck, sayd, "My dearest Life, never agayn, I beseech you,
interfere between me and the Boys: 'tis as unseemlie as tho' I shoulde
interfere between you and your Maids, when you have any,--and will
weaken my Hands, dear _Moll_, more than you have anie Suspicion of."

I replied, kissing that same offending Member as I spoke, "Poor _Jack_
would have beene glad, just now, if I _had_ weakened them."--"But that
is not the Question," he returned, "for we shoulde alle be glad to escape
necessary Punishment; whereas, it is the Power, not the Penalty of
our bad Habits, that we shoulde seek to be delivered from."--"There may,"
I sayd, "be necessary, but need not be corporal Punishment."

"That is as may be," returned he, "and hath alreadie been settled by an
Authoritie to which I submit, and partlie think you will dispute, and
that is, the Word of _God_. Pain of Body is in Realitie, or ought to
be, sooner over and more safelie borne than Pain of an ingenuous Mind;
and, as to the _Shame_,--why, as _Lorenzo de' Medici_ sayd to
_Soccini_, 'The Shame is in the Offence rather than in the Punishment.'"

I replied, "Our _Robin_ had never beene beaten for his Studdies;" to
which he sayd with a Smile, that even I must admit _Robin_ to be noe
greate Scholar.

And so in good Humour left me; but I was in no good Humour, and hoped
Heaven might never make me the Mother of a Son, for if I should see Mr.
_Milton_ strike him, I should learn to hate the Father.--
Learning there was like to be Companie at Doctor _Davies'_, I was
avised to put on my brave greene Satin Gown; and my Husband sayd it
became me well, and that I onlie needed some Primroses and Cowslips in
my Lap, to look like _May_;--and somewhat he added about mine Eyes'
"clear shining after Rain," which avised me he had perceived I had
beene crying in the Morning, which I had hoped he had not.

Arriving at the Doctor's House, we were shewn into an emptie Chamber; at
least, emptie of Companie, but full of every Thing else; for there
were Books, and Globes, and stringed and wind Instruments, and stuffed
Birds and Beasts, and Things I know not soe much as the Names of,
besides an Easel with a Painting by Mrs. _Mildred_ on it, which she
meant to be seene, or she woulde have put it away.

Subject, "_Brutus's Judgment:"_ which I thought a strange, unfeeling
one for a Woman; and did not wish to be _her_ Son. Soone she came in,
drest with studdied and puritanicall Plainnesse; in brown Taffeta,
guarded with black Velvet, which became her well enough, but was scarce
suited for the Season. She had much to say about limning, in which my
Husband could follow her better than I; and then they went to the
Globes, and _Copernicus_, and _Galileo Galilei_, whom she called a
Martyr, but I do not. For, is a Martyr one who is unwillinglie
imprisoned, or who formally recants? even tho' he affected afterwards to
say 'twas _but_ a Form, and cries, "_Eppure, si muove_?" The earlier
Christians might have sayd 'twas but a Form to burn a Handfull of
Incense before _Jove's_ Statua; _Pliny_ woulde have let them goe.

Afterwards, when the Doctor came in and engaged my Husband in Discourse,
Mistress _Mildred_ devoted herselfe to me, and askt what Progresse I
had made with _Bernardo Tasso_. I tolde her, none at alle, for I was
equallie faultie at _Italiques_ and _Italian_, and onlie knew his
best Work thro' Mr. _Fairfax's_ Translation; whereat she fell laughing,
and sayd she begged my Forgivenesse, but I was confounding the
Father with the Sonne; then laught agayn, but pretended 'twas not at
me but at a Lady I minded her of, who never coulde remember to
distinguish betwixt _Lionardo da Vinci_ and _Lorenzo dei Medici_. That
last Name brought up the Recollection of my Morning's Debate with my
Husband, which made me feel sad; and then, Mrs. _Mildred_, seeminge
anxious to make me forget her Unmannerliness, commenced, "Can
you paint?"--"Can you sing?"--"Can you play the Lute?"

--and, at the last, "What _can_ you do?" I mighte have sayd I coulde comb
out my Curls smoother than she coulde hers, but did not.

Other Guests came in, and talked so much agaynst Prelacy and the Right
divine of Kings that I woulde fain we had remained at Astronomie
and Poetry.

For Supper there was little Meat, and noe strong Drinks, onlie a thinnish
foreign Wine, with Cakes, Candies, Sweetmeats, Fruits, and Confections.
Such, I suppose, is Town Fashion. At the laste, came Musick; Mistress
_Mildred_ sang and played; then prest me to do the like, but I was
soe fearfulle, I coulde not; so my Husband sayd he woulde play
for me, and that woulde be alle one, and soe covered my Bashfullenesse
handsomlie.

Onlie this Morning, just before going to his Studdy, he stept back
and sayd, "Sweet _Moll_, I know you can both play and sing--why
will you not practise?"

I replyed, I loved it not much.

He rejoyned, "But you know I love it, and is not that a Motive?"

I sayd, I feared to let him hear me, I played so ill. He replyed, "Why,
that is the very Reason you shoulde seek to play better, and I am
sure you have Plenty of Time.

Perhaps, in your whole future Life, you will not have such a Season of
Leisure as you have now,--a golden Opportunity, which you will
surelie seize."--Then added, "Sir _Thomas More's_ Wife learnt to
play the Lute, solely that she mighte please her Husband." I answered,
"Nay, what to tell me of Sir _Thomas More's_ Wife, or of _Hugh Grotius's_
Wife, when I was the Wife of _John Milton_?" He looked at me twice,
and quicklie, too, at this Saying; then laughing, cried, "You cleaving
Mischief! I hardlie know whether to take that Speech amisse or
well--however, you shall have the Benefit of the Doubt."
And so away laughing; and I, for very Shame, sat down to the Spinnette
for two wearie Hours, till soe tired, I coulde cry; and when I desisted,
coulde hear _Jack_ wailing over his Task. 'Tis raining fast, I cannot
get out, nor should I dare to go alone, nor where to go to if 'twere fine.
I fancy ill Smells from the Churchyard--'tis long to Dinner-time,
with noe Change, noe Exercise; and oh, I sigh for _Forest Hill_.

--A dull Dinner with Mrs. _Phillips_, whom I like not much.
_Christopher Milton_ there, who stared hard at me, and put me out of
Countenance with his strange Questions. My Husband checked him.
He is a Lawyer, and has Wit enoughe.

Mrs. _Phillips_ speaking of second Marriages, I unawares hurt her by
giving my Voice agaynst them. It seems she is thinking of contracting
a second Marriage.

--At Supper, wishing to ingratiate myself with the Boys, talked to them
of Countrie Sports, etc.: to which the youngest listened greedilie;
and at length I was advised to ask them woulde they not like to
see _Forest Hill_? to which the elder replyed in his most methodicall
Manner, "If Mr. _Powell_ has a good Library." For this Piece of Hypocrisie,
at which I heartilie laught, he was commended by his Uncle. Hypocrisie
it was, for Master _Ned_ cryeth over his Taskes pretty nearlie as
oft as the youngest.

_Friday_.

To rewarde my zealous Practice to-day on the Spinnette, Mr. _Milton_
produced a Collection of "_Ayres, and Dialogues, for one, two, and
three Voices_," by his Friend, Mr.

_Harry Lawes_, which he sayd I shoulde find very pleasant Studdy; and then
he tolde me alle about theire getting up the Masque of _Comus_ in
_Ludlow_ Castle, and how well the Lady's Song was sung by Mr.
_Lawes'_ Pupil, the Lady _Alice_, then a sweet, modest Girl, onlie
thirteen Yeares of Age,--and he told me of the Singing of a faire
_Italian_ young Signora, named _Leonora Barroni_, with her Mother
and Sister, whome he had hearde at _Rome_, at the Concerts of
Cardinal _Barberini_; and how she was "as gentle and modest as sweet
_Moll_," yet not afrayed to open her Mouth, and pronounce everie
Syllable distinctlie, and with the proper Emphasis and Passion when
she sang.

And after this, to my greate Contentment, he tooke me to the _Gray's
Inn Walks_, where, the Afternoon being fine, was much Companie.

After Supper, I proposed to the Boys that we shoulde tell Stories; and
Mr. _Milton_ tolde one charminglie, but then went away to write
a _Latin_ Letter. Soe _Ned's_ Turn came next; and I must, if I can, for
very Mirthe's Sake, write it down in his exact Words, they were soe
pragmaticall.

"On a Daye, there was a certain Child wandered forthe, that
would play.
He met a Bee, and sayd, 'Bee, wilt thou play with me?' The Bee sayd, 'No,
I have my Duties to perform, tho' you, it woulde seeme, have none.

I must away to make Honey.' Then the Childe, abasht, went to the
Ant.
He sayd, 'Will you play with me, Ant?' The Ant replied, 'Nay, I must
provide against the Winter.' In shorte, he found that everie Bird,
Beaste, and Insect he accosted, had a closer Eye to the Purpose of
their Creation than himselfe. Then he sayd, 'I will then back, and
con my Task.'

--_Moral_. The Moral of the foregoing Fable, my deare _Aunt_, is
this--We must love Work better than Play."
With alle my Interest for Children, how is it possible to take anie
Interest in soe formall a little Prigge?

_Saturday_.

I have just done somewhat for Master _Ned_ which he coulde not doe
for himselfe--_viz_. tenderly bound up his Hand, which he had badly
cut.

Wiping away some few naturall Tears, he must needs say, "I am quite
ashamed, _Aunt_, you shoulde see me cry; but the worst of it is,
that alle this Payne has beene for noe good; whereas, when my Uncle beateth
me for misconstruing my _Latin_, tho' I cry at the Time, all the while I
know it is for my Advantage."--If this Boy goes on preaching soe, I shall
soon hate him.

--Mr. _Milton_ having stepped out before Supper, came back looking soe
blythe, that I askt if he had hearde good News. He sayd, yes:
that some Friends had long beene persuading him, against his Will, to
make publick some of his _Latin_ Poems; and that, having at length
consented to theire Wishes, he had beene with _Mosley_ the Publisher in
St.
_Paul's Churchyard_, who agreed to print them. I sayd, I was sorrie
I shoulde be unable to read them.

He sayd he was sorry too; he must translate them for me. I thanked him,
but observed that Traductions were never soe good as Originalls. He
rejoyned, "Nor am I even a good Translator."

I askt, "Why not write in your owne Tongue?" He sayd, "_Latin_ is
understood all over the Worlde."

I sayd, "But there are manie in your owne Country do not understand
it." He was silent soe long upon that, that I supposed he did not mean
to answer me; but then cried, "You are right, sweet _Moll.

--_Our best Writers have written their best Works in _English_, and I will
hereafter doe the same,--for I feel that my best Work is still _to
come_.

Poetry hath hitherto been with me rather the Recreation of a Mind conscious
of its Health, than the deliberate Task-work of a Soule that must
hereafter give an Account of its Talents. Yet my Mind, in the free Circuit
of her Musing, has ranged over a thousand Themes that lie, like the
Marble in the Quarry, readie for anie Shape that Fancy and Skill may
give.

Neither Laziness nor Caprice makes me difficult in my Choice; for, the
longer I am in selecting my Tree, and laying my Axe to the Root,
the sounder it will be and the riper for Use.

Nor is an Undertaking that shall be one of high Duty, to be entered
upon without Prayer and Discipline:--it woulde be Presumption
indeede, to commence an Enterprise which I meant shoulde delighte
and profit every instructed and elevated Mind without so much
Paynes-takinge as it should cost a poor Mountebank to balance a
Pole on his Chin."

_Sunday Even_.

In the Clouds agayn. At Dinner, to-daye, Mr. _Milton_ catechised the
Boys on the Morning's Sermon, the Heads of which, though amounting
to a Dozen_, Ned_ tolde off roundlie. Roguish little _Jack_ looked
slylie at me, says, "_Aunt_ coulde not tell off the Sermon." "Why not?"
says his Uncle. "Because she was sleeping," says _Jack_. Provoked
with the Child, I turned scarlett, and hastilie sayd, "I was not."
Nobodie spoke; but I repented the Falsitie the Moment it had escaped me;
and there was _Ned_, a folding of his Hands, drawing down his Mouth, and
closing his Eyes. . . . My Husband tooke me to taske for it when we
were alone, soe tenderlie that I wept.

_Monday_.

_Jack_ sayd this Morning, "I know Something--I know _Aunt_ keeps a
Journall."

"And a good Thing if you kept one too, _Jack,"_ sayd his Uncle,
"it would shew you how little you doe." _Jack_ was silenced; but _Ned_,
pursing up his Mouth, says, "I can't think what _Aunt_ can have
to put in a Journall--should not you like, _Uncle_, to see?" "No, _Ned,"_
says his Uncle, "I am upon Honour, and your dear Aunt's Journall is as
safe, for me, as the golden Bracelets that King _Alfred_ hung upon
the High-way. I am glad she has such a Resource, and, as we know she
cannot have much News to put in it, we may the more safely rely that it
is a Treasury of sweet, and high, and holy, and profitable Thoughtes."

Oh, how deeplie I blusht at this ill-deserved Prayse! How sorrie I was
that I had ever registered aught that he woulde grieve to read! I
secretly resolved that this Daye's Journalling should be the last, untill
I had attained a better Frame of Mind.
_Saturday Even_.
I have kept Silence, yea, even from good Words, but it has beene a
Payn and Griefe unto me. Good Mistress _Catherine Thompson_ called
on me a few Dayes back, and spoke so wisely and so wholesomelie
concerning my Lot, and the Way to make it happy, (she is the first
that hath spoken as it 'twere possible it mighte not be soe alreadie,)
that I felt for a Season quite heartened; but it has alle faded
away. Because the Source of Cheerfulnesse is not _in_ me, anie more
than in a dull Landskip, which the Sun lighteneth for awhile, and
when he has set, its Beauty is gone.
Oh me! how merry I was at Home!--The Source of Cheerfulnesse seemed
in me _then_, and why is it not _now_? Partly because alle that I
was there taught to think right is here thought wrong; because much
that I there thought harmlesse is here thought sinfulle; because I
cannot get at anie of the Things that employed and interested me
_there_, and because the Things within my Reach _here_ do not
interest me. Then, 'tis no small Thing to be continuallie deemed
ignorant and misinformed, and to have one's Errors continuallie
covered, however handsomelie, even before Children.Indeed, he went further, and persuaded himself
that between that moment and dinner he had nothing to do except sign a
few routine letters at the office. Still, it was just as well that Lois
should remain in delusion as to his being seriously pressed for time.

As he curved, slackening and accelerating, with the perfect assurance of
long habit, through the swift, intricate, towering motor traffic of
Fulham Road, it was inevitable that he should recall the days, eleven
years ago, when through a sedate traffic of trotting horses enlivened
with a few motors and motor-buses, he used to run down on his
motor-cycle to visit Marguerite. It was inevitable that he should think
upon what had happened to him in the meantime. His body felt, honestly,
no older. The shoulders had broadened, the moustache was fiercer, there
were semicircular furrows under the eyes; but he was as slim and agile
as ever, and did his morning exercises as regularly as he took his bath.
More, he was still, somehow, the youthful prodigy who had won the
biggest competition of modern years while almost an infant. He was still
known as such, regarded as such, greeted as such, referred to as such at
intervals in the Press. His fame in his own world seemed not to have
deteriorated. But disappointment had slowly, imperceptibly, eaten into
him. He was far off the sublime heights of Sir Hugh Corver, though he
met Sir Hugh apparently as an equal on the Council of the Royal Society
of British Architects. Work had not surged in upon him. He had not been
able to pick and choose among commissions. He had never won another
competition. Again and again his hopes had been horribly defeated in
these ghastly enterprises, of which two were still pending. He was a man
of one job. And a quarter of his professional life had slipped behind
him! His dreams were changed. Formerly he had dreamed in architectural
forms; now he dreamed in percentages. His one job had been enormous and
lucrative, but he had lived on it for a decade, and it was done. And
outside it he had earned probably less than twelve hundred pounds.

And if the job had been enormous, his responsibilities were likewise
enormous. Home expenses with an increasing family; establishment
expenses; a heavy insurance! Slavery to habits! The common story,
without the slightest originality in it. The idea recurred continually:
it was the fault of Lois, of that embodied, implacable instinct which
Lois was! And it was the fault of circumstance, of the structure of
society, of existence itself. And it was his fault too. And the whole of
the blame would be his if disaster came. Imagine those kids with the
perambulator and the doll's perambulator--imagine them in an earthquake!
He could see no future beyond, perhaps, eight months ahead. No, he could
not! Of course his stepfather was a sure resource. But he could not
conceive himself confessing failure to his stepfather or to anybody on
earth. Yet, if he did not very soon obtain more work, remunerative and
on a large scale ... if he did not ... However, he would obtain more
work. It was impossible that he should not obtain it. The matter with
Sir Isaac was as good as arranged. And the chances of winning at any
rate one of the two competitions were very favourable.... He dismissed
every apprehension. His health was too good to tolerate apprehensions
permanently. And he had a superstitious faith in his wife's
superstitious faith in him, and in his luck. The dark mood quickly
faded. It had been induced, not by the spectacle of his wife and family
and household seen somehow from a new angle, but by the recollection of
the past. Though he often went through dark moods, they were not moods
of financial pessimism; they seemed to be causeless, inexplicable, and
indescribable--abysses in which cerebration ceased.


III


She was just closing the side gate leading to the studio when he drove
up. He recognized her face over the top of the gate. At the first glance
it seemed to be absolutely unchanged--the same really beautiful lips,
the same nose, the same look in the eyes. Had a decade passed by her and
left no trace? He lost his nerve for an instant, and brought the car to
a standstill with less than his usual adroitness. She hesitated.

"I was coming to see you," he called out hastily, boyishly, not in the
least measuring his effects. He jumped from the car, and said in a
lower, more intimate tone: "I've only this minute heard about Mr. Haim.
I'm awfully sorry. I thought I'd come along at once."

"How nice of you!" she replied, quite simply and naturally, with a
smile. "Do come in."

The tension was eased.

She pulled at the gate, which creaked. He then saw plainly the whole of
her figure. She was dressed in black, and wore what the newspaper
advertisement called a 'matron's coat.' The decade had not passed by her
and left no trace. She had been appointed to a share in the mysterious
purpose. Her bust, too, was ampler; only her face, rather pale like the
face of Lois, was unaltered in its innocent contours. He felt that he
was blushing. He had no instinctive jealousy nor resentment; it did not
appear strange to him that this woman in the matron's coat was the girl
he had passionately kissed in that very house; and indeed the woman was
not the girl--the connexion between the woman and the girl had snapped.
Nevertheless, he was extremely self-conscious; but not she. And in his
astonishment he wondered at the secretiveness of London. His house and
hers were not more than half a mile apart, and yet in eleven years he
had never set eyes on her house. Nearly always, on leaving his house, he
would go up Elm Park Gardens and turn to the right. If he was not in the
car he would never turn to the left. Occasionally he had flown past the
end of the Grove in the car; not once, however, had he entered the
Grove. He lived in Chelsea and she lived in Chelsea, but not the same
Chelsea; his was not the Chelsea of the studios and the King's Road.
They had existed close together, side by side, for years and years--and
she had been hidden from him.

As they walked towards the studio door she told him that 'they' had
buried her father a week ago and that 'they' were living in the studio,
and had already arranged to let the lower part of the house. She had the
air of assuming that he was aware of the main happenings in her life,
only a little belated in the knowledge of her father's death. She was
quite cheerful. He pretended to himself to speculate as to the identity
of her husband. He would not ask: "And who is your husband?". All the
time he knew who her husband was: it could be no other than one man. She
opened the studio door with a latchkey. He was right. At a table Mr.
Prince was putting sheets of etching-paper to soak in a porcelain bath.

"Well! Well! Well!" exclaimed Mr. Prince warmly, not flustered, not a
bit embarrassed, and not too demonstrative. He came forward, delicately
drying the tips of his fingers on a rag, and shook hands. His hair was
almost white, his thin, benevolent face amazingly lined; his voice had a
constant little vibration. Yet George could not believe that he was an
old man.

"He only heard to-day about father, and he's called at once," said
Marguerite. "Isn't it just like him?"

The last phrase surprised and thrilled George. Did she mean it? Her
kind, calm, ingenuous face showed that obviously she meant it.

"It is," said Mr. Prince seriously. "Very good of you, old man."

After some talk about Mr. Haim, and about old times, and about changes,
during which Marguerite took off her matron's coat and Mr. Prince gently
hung it up for her, they all sat down near to one another and near the
unlighted stove. The studio seemed to be precisely as of old, except
that it was very clean. Marguerite, in a high-backed wicker-chair, began
slowly to remove her hat, which she perched behind her on the chair. Mr.
Prince produced a tin of Gold Flake cigarettes.

"And so you're living in the studio?" said George.

"We have the two rooms at the top of the house of course," answered Mr.
Prince, glancing at the staircase. "I don't know whether it's quite the
wisest thing, with all those stairs; you see how we're fixed"--he
glanced at Marguerite--"but we had a fine chance to let the house, and
in these days it's as well to be cautious."

Marguerite smiled happily and patted her husband's hand.

"Of course it's the wisest thing," she said.

"Why! What's the matter with these days?" George demanded. "How's the
work?"

"Oh!" said Mr. Prince, in a new tone. "I've one or two things that might
interest you."

He displayed some prints, and chatted of his labours. He was still
etching; he would die etching. This was the etcher of European renown.
He referred to the Vienna acquisition as though it was an affair of a
few weeks ago. He had disposed of an etching to Stockholm, and mentioned
that he had exhibited at the International Show in Rome. He said that
his things were attracting attention at a gallery in Bond Street. He
displayed catalogues and press-cuttings.

"These are jolly fine," said George enthusiastically, as he examined the
prints on his knee.

"I'm glad you like them," said Mr. Prince, pleased. "I think I've
improved."

But in spite of his European renown, Mr. Prince had remained practically
unknown. His name would not call forth the 'Oh yes!' of recognition from
the earnest frequenter of fashionable exhibitions who takes pride in his
familiarity with names. The etchings of Prince were not subscribed for
in advance. He could not rank with the stars--Cameron, Muirhead Bone,
Legros, Brangwyn. Probably he could command not more than two or three
guineas for a print. "Oh, Mrs. Gray," said Esther, "I am so glad
that you are going to help Billy. I saw him the other day, and feel
sure that you can bring him around all right. I shall come over often
to assist you, and I know that many will find the same dear Friend in
whom you are rejoicing tonight.

"How wonderfully has the Lord's hand been guiding since first I saw
Rosa that cold December day; and the end is not yet!"
For several minutes the little company sat in silence, each one buried
in thoughts too deep and sacred to find expression in words.

Presently Rosa lifted her head from the doctor's shoulder, her lustrous
eyes becoming more luminous than ever, as she said:
"Oh, how glad I am that I have found the way to the beautiful land!

Mother's there, and don't cough no more. Grandpa's there, and we're all
going some day, 'cause Jesus paid the fare a long time ago!"

AFTERWORD.

One bitterly cold December day, while riding in a streetcar in a large
city, a frail-looking little girl, bending beneath the weight of
a huge package, entered the car, sitting directly in front of me.

She was thinly, though neatly, clad.

Her pale face was overshadowed by an expression of care far too old for
her baby shoulders, while her eyes were large, dark, and pathetically
wistful.

There was something irresistible about her whole appearance, impelling
me to cross the aisle and sit down by her side.

She told me that her name was Rosa, and the conversation which followed,
suggested the story, "ROSA'S QUEST."
I asked her if she knew anything about Jesus. To this she replied:

"Not much, ma'am, but it seems like I've heard just a little."
Of heaven and the way of salvation she was as ignorant as a child in the
wilds of Africa. The sad expression of her face did not alter till I
quoted John 3:16, then looking up with a smile she said:

"Ain't that pretty?"
For some time we talked, her hungry soul eagerly drinking in the
old, old story, but to her so new.
Suddenly she left the car, and with a sense of deep depression, I
saw her disappear amid a great, seething mass of humanity.
If she has not succumbed to the hardships of poverty, she probably
is still toiling on in that proud "Christian" city, and has any one
taught her more of Jesus than she knew that day?Surely an ideal existence! Yes, George wished
that he could say as much for himself. Marguerite, completely deprived
of ambition, would never have led any man into insecurity. He had
realized already that afternoon that there were different degrees of
success; he now realized that there were different kinds of success.

"Well!" he rose suddenly. "I must be off. I'm very busy."

"I suppose you are," said Mr. Prince. Untrue to assert that his glance
was never wistful! It was ever so slightly wistful then.

George comprehended that Mr. Prince admired him and looked up to him
after all.

"My town hall is being opened to-morrow."

"So I saw," said Mr. Prince. "I congratulate you."

They knew a good deal about him--where he lived, the statistics of his
family, and so on. He picked up his hat.

"I can't tell you how I appreciate your coming," said Marguerite, gazing
straight into his eyes.

"Rather!" said Mr. Prince.

They were profoundly flattered by the visit of this Bird-of-paradise.
But they did not urge him to stay longer.

As he was leaving, the door already open, George noticed a half-finished
book-cover design on a table.

"So you're still doing these binding designs!" He stopped to examine.

Husband and wife, always more interested in their own affairs than in
other people's, responded willingly to his curiosity. George praised,
and his praise was greatly esteemed. Mr. Prince talked about the changes
in trade bindings, which were all for the worse. The Senator, with a
start of anger, first flung himself on the intruder; then, snatched back
by his companions, turned wrathfully on his daughter, who, at his feet,
with outstretched arms and streaming face, pleaded her cause with all
the eloquence of young distress.
He and they lived in absolutely different worlds.

"This is the last I shall let her do for a long time," observed Mr.
Prince. "I shouldn't have let her do this one, but the doctor, who's a
friend of ours, said there wouldn't be any harm, and of course it's
always advisable to break a connexion as little as possible. You never
know...."

George smiled, returning their flattery.

"You aren't going to tell me that that matters to _you_!"

Mr. Prince fixed George with his eye.

"When the European War starts in earnest I think most of us will need
all we've been able to get together."

"What European War?" asked George, with a touch of disdain. "You don't
mean to say that this Sarajevo business will lead to a European War!"

"No, I don't," said Mr. Prince very firmly. "Germany's diplomatists are
much too clever for that. They're clever enough to find a better excuse.
But they will find it, and soon."

George saw that Mr. Prince, having opened up a subject which apparently
was dear to him, had to be handled with discretion. He guessed at once,
from the certainty and the emotion of Mr. Prince's phrases, that Mr.
Prince must have talked a lot about a European War. So he mildly
replied:

"Do you really think so?"

"Do I think so? My dear fellow, you have only to look at the facts.
Austria undoubtedly annexed Bosnia at Germany's instigation. Look at
what led to Algeciras. Look at Agadir. Look at the increase in the
German army last July. And look at the special levy. The thing's as
clear as day." Mr. Prince now seemed to be a little angry with George,
who had moved into the doorway.

"I'll tell you what I think," said George, with the assurance with which
as a rule he announced his opinions. "We're Germany's only serious
rival. It's us she's up against. She can only fight us on the sea. If
she fought us now on the sea she'd be wiped out. That's admitted. In ten
years, if she keeps on building, she might have a chance. But not now!
Not yet! And she knows it." George did not mention that he had borrowed
the whole weighty argument from his stepfather; but he spoke with
finality, and was rather startled when Mr. Prince blew the whole weighty
argument into the air with one scornful, pitying exhalation.

Mr. Prince said: "Nothing in it! Nothing in it! It's our alliances that
will be the ruin of us. We shall be dragged into war. If Germany chooses
to fight on land everybody will have to fight on land. When she gets to
Paris, what are we going to do about it? We shall be dragged into war.
It's the damnable alliances that Sir Edward Grey has let us in for." Mr.
Prince fixed George afresh. "That man ought to be shot. What do we want
with alliances?... Have you heard Lord Roberts?"

George admitted weakly, and as if ashamed, that he had not.

"Well, you should."

"Oh yes," Marguerite ingenuously put in. "Alfred's been very strong on
the European War ever since he heard Lord Roberts speak at Chelsea Town
Hall."

George then understood the situation. Mr. Prince, through the hazard of
a visit to Chelsea Town Hall, had become obsessed by a single idea, an
idea which his natural apprehensions had well nourished. A common
phenomenon! George had met before the man obsessed by one idea, with his
crude reasoning, his impatience, and his flashing eye. As for himself he
did not pretend to be an expert in politics; he had no time for
politics; but he was interested in them, and held strong views about
them; and among his strongest views was the view that the crudity of the
average imperialist was noxious, and a source of real danger. 'That man
ought to be shot.' Imagine such a remark! He felt that he must soothe
Mr. Prince as he would soothe a child. And he did so, with all the tact
acquired at municipal committee meetings in the north.

His, last impression, on departure, was that Mr. Prince was an excellent
and most lovable fellow, despite his obsession. "Glad to see you at any
time," said Mr. Prince, with genuine cordiality, critically and somewhat
inimically assessing the car, which he referred to as 'she.' At the time
of the escape the top kite, a four-footer, was up nearly a mile, and
the other seven were flying at a good elevation. The consequence was that
although, as invariably happens in such cases, they began to drop, the
lowest kite did not strike the ground until it had been carried about a
quarter of a mile, to the New Jersey shore of the Kill von Kull, which
is half a mile wide at this point. Here kite number eight, a six-footer,
caught in a tree and held the line for a few seconds until its own
cord broke, under the strain, and set the other kites
free. This check had lifted the other kites, and they now flew right
bravely across the water, not one of the seven wetting its heels before
the farther shore was reached. Then the lowest of them came to the
ground, in its turn putting a brief check on the others.

But its cord soon broke under the strain, and the six still flying
went sailing over the trees of Staten Island, hundreds of people
watching them as they flew--six tailless kites driving along towards
New York Bay, the main line trailing behind over lawns and
house-tops.

Then a queer thing happened. As the loose end of the main line trailed
along, it whipped against a line of telegraph wires with such violence
as to wind itself around the wires again and again, just as a
whip-lash winds round a hitching-post when whipped against one. The
result was that the runaway kites were finally anchored by the main
line, and held fast until their owner, coming in quick pursuit on
ferryboat and train, could secure them.

On another occasion, two of Mr. Eddy's kites flying in tandem broke away,
and started out to sea, the dangling line passing over a moored coal
barge on which a man was working. Feeling something tickle his neck, the
man put up his hand quickly and touched the kite-cord.
Greatly surprised, he seized the cord and made it fast; and he was not
at all disposed to give up the kites when Mr.

Eddy claimed them. There is no property, indeed, so hard to prove and
recover as a runaway kite. For one thing, there is absolutely no telling
how far a runaway kite will sail before landing. Mr. Eddy estimates that
when the main line breaks, a kite well up in a twenty-five mile
breeze will travel, before alighting, a distance equal to twelve times
its height from the ground. This means that a kite straight over the
Battery, in New York City, and a mile in the air, driven by a stiff
south wind, might land in Yonkers if the cord broke. There is, by the
way, an old-time ordinance on the statute book, prohibiting the flying
of kites in any part of New York City below Fourteenth Street. This,
however, did not prevent Mr. Eddy from taking recently a series of
unique photographs (some of them are reproduced in this article),
by means of a tandem of kites sent up from a high building near the
City Hall Park. The only complication that resulted was a fierce contention
among a crowd of idlers and gamins over the possession of one of the
kites, which came down accidentally and lodged in one of the Park
trees.

[Illustration: NEW YORK, EAST RIVER, BROOKLYN, AND NEW YORK BAY, FROM
A KITE.

From a photograph taken from a kite by Mr. W.A. Eddy.]

THE LIFTING POWER OF KITES.

A tandem of six or eight six-foot kites exerts a pull of thirty pounds
or more on the main line; but it must not be assumed that such a
tandem would lift and carry through the air a weight of thirty
pounds.
The weight of thirty pounds would be carried a short distance; but
as the weight moved off, there would be a sudden lessening of the
resistance on the line, and so of the wind pressure against the
kites, which would soon cause them to sink.

A tandem of strong kites in a good breeze might be made to operate a
sort of jumping apparatus which, after being carried a short distance,
would anchor itself to the ground until the renewed strength of
the kites lifted it up again for another jump. But all kite experts are
agreed that a kite's power for lifting loads clear of the ground
must be enormously increased according as the distance to which
the load is to be lifted is increased. It would be possible, for
example, to build a tandem of kites strong enough to lift a man clear of
the ground, supposing him to be swung in a basket from the main line.
This, indeed, has been actually accomplished. September 18, 1895, in
England, Captain Baden-Powell was lifted to a height of one hundred feet
on a kite-string supported by five large hexagon kites. But Mr. Eddy
calculates that to lift a man of the same weight (one hundred and fifty
pounds) to a height of fifteen hundred feet, with a wind blowing at
the same rate (twenty miles an hour), would require seven kites with
upright and cross-sticks not less than sixty-four feet each in length.

The only other instance on record where a man has been lifted by a
kite-cord was in the experiment of the great Australian kite expert,
Hargrave, who, on November 12, 1894, placed himself in a sling seat
attached to a tandem of his wonderful box kites, and was swung
sixteen feet clear of the earth. The entire load, including the seat
and appurtenances, amounted to two hundred and eight pounds. Mr. Eddy
calculates that six of his bird-shaped kites, twenty feet in
diameter, would lift a man and basket in safety to a height of one
hundred feet, assuming the wind to be blowing steadily at twenty
miles an hour.

[Illustration: PHOTOGRAPHING FROM A KITE-LINE.

NOTE.--In this picture the square box suspended from the upper
line is the camera. The ball hanging from the camera is the burnished
signal which, by its fall, informs the operator on the ground when the
shutter of the camera has opened. The shutter and the ball are controlled
from the ground by the lower line.]

THE METEOROLOGICAL USE OF KITES.

Although Mr. Eddy began flying kites as a diversion, he soon saw that
there were more serious reasons for continuing his experiments. Having
long been interested in meteorological problems, it occurred to him that
good results might be obtained by sending aloft, on kite-strings,
self-registering thermometers and apparatus for indicating the
direction and strength of the air currents. On February 4, 1891, he sent
up what is believed to be the first thermometer ever attached to a kite
for scientific purposes. This was at nine o'clock in the evening on
a cold winter's night, the thermometer registering ten degrees Fahrenheit
at the ground. On reading the record after the descent, the
thermometer was found to mark six degrees Fahrenheit, which indicated,
according to the recognized law of decrease of temperature, that the
kite had been sent to a height of one thousand feet. The law is that in
ascending from the earth the temperature falls one degree for every two
hundred and fifty feet; but subsequent experiments convinced Mr. Eddy
that it was by no means to be relied upon as an indication of the
height of kites.

Not that the law is false; but it holds good only when the meteorological
conditions above are the same as at the earth's surface, which is very
far from being the case always.

Out of these experiments Mr. Eddy evolved an important theory which has
since been abundantly verified. Seeing the frequent variations in the
thermometric readings from what the law had led him to expect, he concluded
that these were due to meteorological variations overhead; and that changes
in the weather, say the approach of warm waves or cold waves, make
themselves felt in the air strata above the earth's surface several
hours before they can be detected at the surface.

Observations extending over months at the Blue Hills Observatory,
near Boston, and elsewhere, have abundantly confirmed this theory.

With this fact established, it followed, in Mr.

Eddy's opinion, that it was perfectly possible to use kites in
making weather prognostications; and, indeed, he has been doing
this himself for several years with the best results.

Whenever his kite-thermometers, sent to a fixed height which he determines
independently by a specially devised kite-quadrant, show actual
readings which are either warmer or cooler than the theoretical
readings, he prophesies that the weather will, within a few hours,
become warmer or colder at the earth's surface, and these prophecies
are fulfilled in a large majority of cases.

If the kite-thermometers show exactly the temperature which the law
would call for, he prophesies that there will be no change in the
weather.

[Illustration: CITY HALL PARK AND BROADWAY FROM A KITE.

From a photograph taken from a kite by Mr. W.A. Eddy. City Hall Park,
New York City, appears in the foreground, with Broadway back of
it.]

It has also been demonstrated that kites may be used by meteorologists to
indicate the approach of storms, which they foretell by a sudden and
continuous veering over a considerable arc, usually about sixty
degrees.

This veering begins usually six or seven hours before a storm, and
often as much as twelve hours.

And another sure sign of a storm is the continuous and sudden
dropping of the kites followed by a quick recovery, which shows
that the wind is blowing in gusts interspersed with periods of calm.

In making a series of meteorological experiments which he conducted
at the Blue Hills Observatory, Mr.

Eddy often employed as many as eight or ten kites; and in August, 1895,
he sent up twelve kites on one line, three of them being nine-footers.
This is probably the largest number of kites ever sent up in tandem;
and although on this occasion the line carried only the thermographs
suspended in a basket, the whole weighing not more than two pounds,
a very much larger load might have been carried, had it been
desired.

[Illustration: Murray Street.

Warren Street.

MURRAY AND WARREN STREETS, NEW YORK CITY, FROM A KITE.

From a photograph taken from a kite by Mr. W.A. Eddy, showing Murray and
Warren Streets, New York City, as they run west from Broadway.]

Among many other curious things about the wind observed by Mr. Eddy, is
the fact that the night winds are by far the steadiest and most
satisfactory for kite-flying. On this account much of his
work with kites has been done in the darkness, although he uses lanterns
on the lines to assist him in locating the kites. It has also been
demonstrated that the force of the wind increases steadily as the
distance from the earth increases. Archibald proved this conclusively,
by suspending a series of wind-measuring instruments at intervals along
the main line, their registration showing almost invariably greater
wind pressure at the higher altitude. Mr. Eddy has furthermore
noted that, while the early morning wind is usually very light at the
earth's surface, it is almost invariably good aloft; and he has again
and again verified the well-established fact that all clouds herald their
approach and are accompanied by increased wind velocity.

THE HIGHEST FLIGHT EVER MADE BY A KITE.

The modern system of flying kites tandem was devised by Mr.

Eddy in 1890, although it was hit upon two years later independently
by Dr.

Alexander B. Johnson, the distinguished surgeon of the Roosevelt
Hospital in New York.

The tandem system makes it possible to send kites to far greater
altitudes than had ever been previously attained.

And here the best record is undoubtedly held by one of Mr. Eddy's
tandems, sent aloft at Bayonne, on November 7, 1893. Mr. Eddy began
to send up the kites at 7:30 A.M.; but, being hampered by light breezes
from the east, found he was kept busy until half-past three in the
afternoon in getting nine kites aloft. He had paid out nearly two miles
of cord, when the top kite, a little two-footer, stood straight over
the spar buoy in Newark Bay. The lowest kite, a six-footer, was hovering
some distance inland from the shore, on a line from the shore to Mr.
Eddy's house (where the end of the line was anchored) measuring
fifty-five hundred feet by the surveyor's map. Taking two observations
from the two ends of this base line, Mr. Eddy's kite-quadrant
showed angles of thirty-five and sixty-six degrees; and these data, by
simple methods of triangulation, were sufficient to determine the
altitude of the kite, which was found to be five thousand five hundred
and ninety-five feet--or something over one mile. The kites were seen
by hundreds of persons during the fifteen hours that they remained up,
the experiment coming to an abrupt end at ten o'clock that night by
the blowing away of the two upper kites in the increasing wind.
The escaped kites disappeared in Newark Bay, along with three thousand
feet of the line.

[Illustration: KITE-DRAWN BUOY.

Invented by Prof. J. Woodbridge Davis. This buoy lacks the steering
appliances of the one shown below, and travels simply in a line with the
kite that draws it.]
Much interest attaches from a scientific point of view to experiments
designed to test how great an altitude may be reached by kites; and
for a year past Mr. Eddy has been working in this direction for the
Smithsonian Institution, the hope being that he will ultimately succeed
in sending kites two miles above the earth's surface.
Professor Langley has been following these experiments with great interest,
and has furnished Mr. Eddy with a special quality of silk cord which,
it is believed, will give better results in meteorological observation
than the ordinary hempen twine or rope. The great difficulty that Mr.
Eddy finds in the way of making his kites reach great altitudes, is the
pull on the cord, which increases greatly as the kites rise higher.
It is probable that a tandem of fifteen or twenty big kites, reaching
to a mile above the earth's surface, would exert a pull of one hundred
pounds; while at a height of two miles they might, Mr. Eddy thinks,
exert a pull of three hundred and fifty pounds; and at a height of
three miles, a pull of seven hundred pounds. However great the pull, it
is essential to successful flying that the man in control be able to let
out or reel in the main line with great rapidity, and it is evident
that a dozen men could not by hand alone accomplish this if the
kites were sent as high as might be.

It is likely, therefore, that, as the importance of scientific kite-flying
becomes more widely understood, some simple dummy engine will be devised
for rapidly turning the windlass on which the main line is wound.

Mr. Eddy has made frequent experiments with rain-kites, which he used
for the first time in November, 1893. It is true that Franklin sent up a
flyer during a shower, but in his case the rain was merely an accident
accompanying the electric storm, which was his only concern.
Mr. Eddy, however, has sent up kites in the rain for the purpose
of studying cloud altitudes and other meteorological phenomena; and
by this means he has discovered what was not previously believed to be
true: that clouds sometimes sink to within six hundred feet of the
earth's surface without actually coming down to it.

In fact, Mr. Eddy has had kites disappear in a cloud at a height of
only five hundred and sixty-eight feet. It has sometimes happened that
clouds settling toward the earth have obscured the kites gradually,
the top one becoming invisible first, and then the others in succession.
Mr. Eddy has found that by such indications he is able to foretell
the approach of fog four or five hours before it reaches the earth's
surface, so slowly do the clouds settle through the air strata.
[Illustration: DIRIGIBLE KITE-DRAWN BUOY.
This is the buoy invented by Prof. J.George listened with throat dry; by way of
precaution he had drunk nothing during the meal; and at each toast he
had merely raised the glass to his lips and infinitesimally sipped; the
coffee was bad and cold and left a taste in his mouth; but everything
that he had eaten left a taste in his mouth. The Mayor began:
"My lords, ladies, and gentlemen,--During the building of
this--er--er--_structure_...." All his speech was in that manner and
that key. Nevertheless he was an able and strong individual, and as an
old trade union leader could be fiercely eloquent with working-men. He
mentioned Alderman Soulter, and there was a tremendous cheer. He did not
mention Alderman Soulter again; a feud burned between these two. After
Alderman Soulter he mentioned finance. He said that that was not the
time to refer to finance, and then spoke of nothing else but finance
throughout the remainder of his speech, until he came to the
peroration--"success and prosperity to our new town hall, the grandest
civic monument which any city has erected to itself in this country
within living memory, aye, and beyond." The frantic applause atoned for
the lack of attention and the semi-audible chattering which had marred
the latter part of the interminable and sagacious harangue. George
thought: "Pardon me! The city has not erected this civic monument. I
have erected it." And he thought upon all the labour he had put into it,
and all the beauty and magnificence which he had evolved. Alderman
Soulter should have replied on behalf of the town hall committee, and
the Alderman who took his place apologized for his inability to fill the
role, and said little.

Then the Toast-master bawled incomprehensibly for the twentieth time,
and a councillor arose and in timid tones said:

"I rise to propose the toast of the architect and contractor."

George was so astounded that he caught scarcely anything of the speech.
It was incredible to him that he, the creative artist, who was solely
responsible for the architecture and decoration of the monument, in
whose unique mind it had existed long before the second brick had been
placed upon the first, should be bracketed in a toast with the tradesman
and middleman who had merely supervised the execution of his scheme
according to rules of thumb. He flushed. He wanted to walk out. But
nobody else appeared to be disturbed. George, who had never before
attended an inauguration, was simply not aware that the toast 'architect
and contractor' was the classic British toast, invariably drunk on such
occasions, and never criticised. He thought: "What a country!" and
remembered hundreds of Mr. Enwright's remarks.... Phrases of the orator
wandered into his ear. "The competition system.... We went to Sir Hugh
Corver, the head of the architectural profession [loud applause] and Sir
Hugh Corver assured us that the design of Mr. George Cannon was the
best. [Hear, hear! Hear, hear!]... Mr. Phirrip, head of the famous firm
of Phirrips Limited [loud applause] ... fortunate, after our misfortune
with the original contractor to obtain such a leading light.... Cannot
sufficiently thank these two--er _officials_ for the intellect, energy,
and patience they have put into their work."

As the speech was concluding, a tactless man sitting next to George,
with whom he had progressed very slowly in acquaintance during the
lunch, leaned towards him and murmured in a confidential tone:

"Did I tell you both naval yards up here have just had orders to work
day and night? Yes. Fact."

George's mind ran back to Mr. Prince, and Mr. Prince's prophecy of war.
Was there something in it after all? The thought passed in an instant,
but the last vestiges of his equanimity had gone. Hearing his name he
jumped up in a mist inhabited by inimical phantoms, and, amid feeble
acclamations here and there, said he knew not what in a voice now
absurdly loud and now absurdly soft, and sat down, amid more feeble
acclamations, feeling an angry fool. It was the most hideous experience.
He lit a cigarette, his first that day.

When Mr. Phirrips rose, the warm clapping was expectant of good things.

"When I was a little boy I remember my father telling me that this town
hall had been started. I never expected to live to see it finished--"

Delighted guffaws, uproarious laughter, explosions of mirth, interrupted
this witty reference to the delays in construction. The speaker smiled
at ease. His eyes glinted. He knew his audience, held it consummately,
and went on.

In the afternoon there was a conversazione, or reception, for the
lunchers and also for the outer fringe of the city's solid
respectability. The whole of the town hall from basement to roof was
open to view, and citizens of all ages wandered in it everywhere,
admiring it, quizzing it, and feeling proudly that it was theirs. George
too wandered about, feeling that it was his. He was slowly recovering
from the humiliation of the lunch. Much of the building pleased him
greatly; at the excellence of some effects and details he marvelled; the
entry into the large hall from the grand staircase was dramatic, just as
he had had intended it should be; the organ was being played, and word
went round that the acoustic (or acoostic) properties of the auditorium
were perfect, and unrivalled by any auditorium in the kingdom. On the
other hand, the crudity of certain other effects and details irritated
the creator, helping him to perceive how much he had learnt in ten
years; in ten years, for example, his ideas about mouldings had been
quite transformed. What chiefly satisfied him was the demonstration,
everywhere, that he had mastered his deep natural impatience of minutiae
--that instinct which often so violently resented the exacting
irksomeness of trifles in the realization of a splendid idea. At
intervals he met an acquaintance and talked, but nobody at all appeared
to comprehend that he alone was the creator of the mighty pile, and that
all the individuals present might be divided artistically into two
classes--himself in one class, the entire remainder in the other. And
nobody appeared to be inconvenienced by the sense of the height of his
achievement or of the splendour of his triumph that day. It is true that
the north hates to seem impressed, and will descend to any duplicity in
order not to seem impressed.

The Town Clerk's clerk came importantly up to him and asked:

"How many reserved seats would you like for the concert?"

A grand ballad concert, at which the most sentimental of contraltos,
helped by other first-class throats, was to minister wholesale to the
insatiable secret sentimentality of the north, had been arranged for the
evening.

"One will be enough," said George.

"Are you alone?" asked the Town Clerk's clerk.

George took the ticket. None of the city fathers or their fashionable
sons had even invited him to dinner. He went forth and had tea alone,
while reading in an evening paper about the Austro-Serbian situation, in
the tea-rooms attached to a cinema-palace. The gorgeous rooms, throbbing
to two-steps and fox-trots, were crammed with customers; but the
waitresses behaved competently. Thence he drove out in a taxi to the
residence of Alderman Soulter. He could see neither the Alderman nor
Miss Soulter; he learnt that the condition of the patient was
reassuring, and that the patient had a very good constitution. Back at
the hotel, he had to wait for dinner. In due course he ate the customary
desolating table-d'hote dinner which is served simultaneously in the
vast, odorous dining-rooms, all furnished alike, of scores and scores of
grand hotels throughout the provinces. Having filled his cigar-case, he
set out once more into the beautiful summer evening. In broad Side Gate
were massed the chief resorts of amusement. The façade of the Empire
music-hall glowed with great rubies and emeralds and amethysts and
topazes in the fading light. Its lure was more powerful than the lure of
the ballad concert. Ignoring his quasi-official duty to the greatest of
sentimental contraltos, he pushed into the splendid foyer of the Empire.
One solitary stall, half a crown, was left for the second house; he
bought it, eager in transgression; he felt that the ballad concert would
have sent him mad.

The auditorium of the Empire was far larger than the auditorium of the
town hall, and it was covered with gold. The curving rows of
plush-covered easy chairs extended backwards until faces became
indistinguishable points in the smoke-misted gloom. Every seat was
occupied; the ballad concert had made no impression upon the music-hall.
The same stars that he could see in London appeared on the gigantic
stage in the same songs and monologues; and as in London the
indispensable revue was performed, but with a grosser and more direct
licentiousness than the West End would have permitted. And all proceeded
with inexorable exactitude according to time-table. And in scores and
scores of similar Empires, Hippodromes, Alhambras, and Pavilions
throughout the provinces, similar entertainments were proceeding with
the same exactitude--another example of the huge standardization of
life. George laughed with the best at the inventive drollery of the
knock-about comedians--Britain's sole genuine contribution to the art of
the modern stage. But there were items in the Empire programme that were
as awful in their tedium as anything at the ballad concert could
be--moments when George could not bear to look over the footlights. And
these items were applauded in ecstasy by the enchanted audience. He
thought of the stupidity, the insensibility, the sheer ignorance of the
exalted lunchers; and he compared them with these qualities in the
Empire audience, and asked himself sardonically whether all artists had
lived in vain. But the atmosphere of the Empire was comfortable,
reassuring, inspiring. The men had their pipes, cigarettes, and women;
the women had the men, the luxury, the glitter, the publicity. They had
attained, they were happy. The frightful curse of the provinces, ennui,
had been conjured away by the beneficent and sublime institution
invented, organized, and controlled by three great trusts.

George stayed till the end of the show. The emptying of the theatre was
like a battle, like the flight of millions from a conflagration. All
humanity seemed to be crowded into the corridors and staircases. Jostled
and disordered, he emerged into the broad street, along which huge,
lighted trams slowly thundered. He walked a little, starting a fresh
cigar. The multitude had resumed its calm. A few noisy men laughed and
swore obscene oaths; and girls, either in couples or with men, trudged,
demure and unshocked, past the roysterers, as though they had neither
ears to hear nor eyes to see. In a few minutes the processions were
dissipated, dissolved into the vastness of the city, and the pavements
nearly deserted. George strolled on towards the Square. The town hall
stood up against the velvet pallor of the starry summer night, massive,
lovely, supreme, deserted. He had conceived it in an office in Russell
Square when he was a boy. And there it was, the mightiest monument of
the city which had endured through centuries of astounding corporate
adventure. He was overwhelmed, and he was inexpressibly triumphant.
Throughout the day he had had no recognition; and as regards the future,
few, while ignorantly admiring the monument, would give a thought to the
artist. Books were eternally signed, and pictures, and sculpture. But
the architect was forgotten. What did it matter? If the creators of
Gothic cathedrals had to accept oblivion, he might. The tower should be
his signature. And no artist could imprint his influence so powerfully
and so mysteriously upon the unconscious city as he was doing. And the
planet was whirling the whole city round like an atom in the icy spaces
between the stars. And perhaps Lois was lying expectant, discontented,
upon the sofa, thinking rebelliously. He was filled with the realization
of universality.

At the hotel another telegram awaited him.

"Good old Ponting!" he exclaimed, after reading it. The message ran:

"We have won it.--PONTING"

He said:

"Why 'we,' Ponting? You didn't win it. I won it."

He said:

"Sir Hugh Corver is not going to be the head of the architectural
profession. I am." He felt the assurance of that in his bones.


CHAPTER II

THE ROLL-CALL

I


The telephone rang in the principal's room of George's office in Museum
Street. He raised his head from the drawing-board with the false gesture
of fatigued impatience which, as a business man, he had long since
acquired, and took the instrument. As a fact he was not really busy; he
was only pretending to be busy; and he rather enjoyed the summons of the
telephone, with its eternal promise of some romantic new turn of
existence. Nevertheless, though he was quite alone, he had to affect
that the telephone was his bane.

"Can Sir Isaac Davids speak to you, sir, from the Artists Club?"

"Put him on."

Immediately came the thick, rich voice of Sir Isaac, with its
implications of cynicism and triumphant disdain--attenuated and weakened
in the telephone, suggesting an object seen through the wrong end of a
telescope.

"Is that you, Cannon?"

"It is," said George shortly. Without yet knowing it, he had already
begun to hate Sir Isaac. His criticism of Sir Isaac was that the man was
too damnably sure of himself. And not all Sir Isaac's obvious power,
and influence, and vast potential usefulness to a young architect,
could prevent George from occasionally, as he put it, 'standing up to
the fellow.'

"Well, you'd better come along here, if you can. I want to see you,"
said the unruffled voice of Sir Isaac.

"Now?"

"Yes."

"All right."

As George replaced the instrument, he murmured:

"I know what that means. It's all off." And after a moment: "I knew
jolly well it would be."

He glanced round the very orderly room, to which, by judicious
furnishing, he had given a severe distinction at no great cost. On the
walls were a few interesting things, including a couple of his own
perspectives. A neo-impressionist oil-sketch over the mantelpiece, with
blue trees and red fields and a girl whose face was a featureless blob,
imperiously monopolized the attention of the beholder, warning him,
whoever he might be, that the inescapable revolutionary future was now
at hand. The room and everything in it, that entity upon which George
had spent so much trouble, and of which he had been so proud, seemed
futile, pointless, utterly unprofitable.

_Dick_ cried, "I am righte glad we are off at last, for _Father_ is
downright crazie aboute this Businesse, and mistrustfulle of _Agnew's_
Influence over you,"--and would have gone on railing, but I bade him
for Pitie's Sake be quiete.

The Effects of my owne Follie, the Losse of Home, Husband, Name, the Opinion
of the _Agnews_, the Opinion of the Worlde, rose up agaynst me, and
almost drove me mad. And, just as I was thinking I had better lived
out my Dayes and dyed earlie in _Bride's Churchyarde_ than that
alle this should have come about, the suddain Recollection of what
_Rose_ had that Morning tolde me, which soe manie other Thoughts had
driven out of my Head, viz. that Mr. _Milton_ had, in his Desire
to please me, while I was onlie bent on pleasing myself, been secretly
striving to make readie the _Aldersgate Street_ House agaynst my Return,--soe
overcame me, that I wept as I rode along. Nay, at the Corner of a
branch Road, had a Mind to beg _Dick_ to let me goe to _London_; but
a glance at his dogged Countenance sufficed to foreshow my Answer.

Half dead with Fatigue and Griefe when I reached Home, the tender
Embraces of my Father and Mother completed the Overthrowe of my Spiritts.
I tooke to my Bed; and this is the first Daye I have left it; nor will
they let me send for _Rose_, nor even tell her I am ill.

_Jan. 1, 1644_.

The new Year opens drearilie, on Affairs both publick and private. The
Loaf parted at Breakfast this Morning, which, as the Saying goes, is a
Sign of Separation; but _Mother_ onlie sayd 'twas because it was badly
kneaded, and chid _Margery_. She hath beene telling me, but now, how
I mighte have 'scaped all my Troubles, and seene as much as I woulde
of her and _Father_, and yet have contented Mr. _Milton_ and beene
counted a good Wife. Noe Advice soe ill to bear as that which comes too
late.

_Jan. 7, 1644_.

I am sick of this journalling, soe shall onlie put downe the Date of
_Robin's_ leaving Home. _Lord_ have Mercy on him, and keepe him
in Safetie. This is a shorte Prayer; therefore, easier to be often
repeated. When he kissed me, he whispered, "_Moll_, pray for
me."

_Jan. 27, 1644_.

_Father_ does not seeme to miss _Robin_ much, tho' he dailie drinks his
Health after that of the King. Perhaps he did not miss me anie more
when I was in _London_, though it was true and naturall enough he should
like to see me agayn. We should have beene used to our Separation by
this Time; there would have beene nothing corroding in it. . . .

I pray for _Robin_ everie Night. Since he went, the House has lost
its Sunshine. When I was soe anxious to return to _Forest Hill_,
I never counted on his leaving it.

_Feb. 1, 1644_.

Oh Heaven, what would I give to see the Skirts of Mr.

_Milton's_ Garments agayn! My Heart is sick unto Death. I have been
reading some of my _Journall_, and tearing out much childish Nonsense
at the Beginning; but coulde not destroy the painfulle Records of
the last Year. How unhappy a Creature am I!--wearie, wearie of
my Life, yet no Ways inclined for Death. _Lord_, have Mercy upon
me.

_March 27, 1644_.
I spend much of my Time, now, in the Book-room, and, though I essay
not to pursue the _Latin_, I read much _English_, at the least,
more than ever I did in my Life before; but often I fancy I am
reading when I am onlie dreaming. _Oxford_ is far too gay a Place
for me now ever to goe neare it, but my Brothers are much there,
and _Father_ in his Farm, and _Mother_ in her Kitchen; and the
Neighbours, when they call, look on me strangelie, so that I have
noe Love for them. How different is _Rose's_ holy, secluded, yet
cheerefulle Life at _Sheepscote_! She hath a Nurserie now, soe
cannot come to me, and _Father_ likes not I should goe to her.
_April 5, 1644_.
They say their Majestyes' Parting at _Abingdon_ was very sorrowfulle
and tender. The _Lord_ send them better Times! The Queen is to my
Mind a most charming Lady, and well worthy of his Majesty's Affection;
yet it seems to me amisse, that thro' her Influence, last Summer,
the Opportunitie of Pacification was lost. But she was elated, and
naturallie enoughe, at her personall Successes from the Time of her
landing. To me, there seems nothing soe good as Peace. I know,
indeede, Mr. _Milton_ holds that there may be such Things as a holy
War and a cursed Peace.

_April 10, 1644_.
_Father_, having a Hoarseness, hath deputed me, of late, to read
the Morning and Evening Prayers. How beautifulle is our Liturgie!George had an ardent desire to spend a few
minutes alone with that officer; he could not get the soldier's bruised
cheek out of his memory.

Again, he was moved and even dismayed by the recitals of the entry of
the German army into Brussels and of its breaking into the goose-step as
it reached the Grande Place, though he regarded the goose-step as too
ridiculous and contemptible for words. Then the French defence of
Dinant, and the Belgian defence of Liége, failure as it was, and the
obstinate resistance at Namur, inspired him; and the engagements between
Belgians and Uhlans, in which the clumsy Uhlans were always scattered,
destroyed for him the dread significance of the term 'Uhlan.'

He simply did not comprehend that all these events were negligible
trifles, that no American correspondent had seen the hundredth part of
the enemy forces, that the troops which marched through Brussels were a
tiny, theatrical side-show, a circus, that the attack on Liége had been
mismanaged, that the great battle at Dinant was a mere skirmish in the
new scale of war, and the engagements with Uhlans mere scuffles, and
that behind the screen of these infinitesimal phenomena _the German
army_, unimagined in its hugeness, horror, and might, was creeping like
a fatal and monstrous caterpillar surely towards France.

A similar screen hid from him the realities of England. He saw bunting
and recruits, and the crowds outside consulates. But he had no idea of
the ceaseless flight of innumerable crammed trains day and night
southwards, of the gathering together of Atlantic liners and excursion
steamers from all the coasts into an unprecedented Armada, of the
sighting of the vanguard of that Armada by an incredulous Boulogne, of
the landing of British regiments and guns and aeroplanes in the midst of
a Boulogne wonderstruck and delirious, and of the thrill which thereupon
ecstatically shivered through France. This is the second time
that Mr. Pitman has printed the Chess-book in his reformed
orthography.

The first issue was in 1855. Although the title-page repeats the old
belief that "The Game of Chess" was the first book printed in England,
and gives the date of 1474, it is really a reprint of the second edition
of Caxton.

(_Sloane's version_.)
The Buke of the Chesse. Auchinleck Press. 1818. 4to.

This is printed from a MS. which is believed to have been written about
the beginning of the sixteenth century. The work is in verse, and ends:

"Heir endis y'e buke of y'e Chess, Script per manu Jhois Sloane."

Only forty copies were reprinted by Sir Alexander Boswell at the
Auchinleck Press.

(_Linde.

Lowndes_.)
The "Game and Play of the Chess" is an interesting specimen of mediæval
English literature. It is so near our own time that the language prefents
few difficulties, in spite of its many Gallicisms, and yet it is so
remote as to seem like the echo of an unknown world. The distinctly
dogmatic portions of the book are but few, and their paucity is indeed
a matter of some surprise, since it is in effect a detailed treatise
on practical ethics, and is, in part if not wholly, systematized from
the discourses of one distinguished preacher, who had borrowed
much of his matter from another eminent ecclesiastic.

The author aims not at the enforcement of doctrine, but at the guidance
of life, though he no doubt assumes that his hearers are all faithful
and orthodox sons of the Church.[22]
The ideal of the commonwealth of the middle ages finds an interesting
expression. The sharp lines of demarcation between class and class
are stated with the frankness that comes of a belief that the then
existing social fabric was the only one possible in the best
of worlds. There is no doubt in the author's mind as to the rightful
position of king and baron, of bishp and merchant. The "rights of man"
had not been invented, apparently, and the maxim that the king reigns
but does not govern, would have perplexed the souls of Cessoles and
his translators. They had no more doubt as to the divine right of the
monarch, than the Thibetan has of the divine right of the grand lama.
The Buddhist thinks he has secured the continuous re-appearance of
supernatural wisdom in human form, and the regular transmission
of political ability in the same family was the ideal for which the
devotees of mediæval despotism had to hope.

Nothing could be further from the aspirations of our author
than a race of mere palace kings seeking enjoyment only in self-indulgence.
The king was to be the ruler and leader of his people. The relation and
interdependence of the several classes is emphatically proclaimed, and
the claims of duty are urged upon each.

The book enables us to gauge the literary culture of the thirteenth,
fourteenth, and fifteenth centuries. Poor as it may now seem, it
belonged, in those days, to the "literature of power," and had great
influence. The form is one which lent itself readily to poetic and
historic illustration, and indeed demanded such treatment. The authors
and translators were chiefly learned and distinguifhed
ecclesiastics.
Caxton, the representative of the new time when literature was to be the
common heritage, was filled to overflowing with the best literature
then accessible.

A writer of the present century, probably borrowing his sentiment,
has defined originality to be undetected imitation.

Such refinements were unknown to Cessoles and his contemporaries. A writer
took whatever suited his purpose from any and every source that was open
to him.

A quotation was always as good as an original sentiment, and sometimes
much better.

Why should a man take the trouble of laboriously inventing fresh
phrases about usury or uncleanness when there were the very words
of St.

Augustine or St. Basil ready to hand?

Why seek modern instances when the great storehouse of anecdotes of
Valerius Maximus was ready to be rifled?

Very frequently the author is given, mostly it may be imagined from
a sense of the value of the authority of the names thus cited.

Whatever the intention of the writer, the effect is to show us what
were the authors known, studied, and quoted in the middle ages.

All other men bore the war in their faces and in their gestures,
but this man did not.

"I'm going to make munitions now--explosives. I'm going to have the
biggest explosives factory in the world. However, the modifications in
the general plan won't be serious. I want to talk to you about that."

"Have you got contracts, then, already?"

"No. Both the War Office and the Admiralty have told me they have all
the explosives they want," he sneered. "But I've made a few inquiries,
and I think that by the time my factory's up they'll be wanting more
explosives than they can get. In fact I wish I could build half a dozen
factories. Dare say I shall."

"Then you think we're in for a long war?"

"Not specially that. If it's a long war you English will win. If it's a
short war the Germans will win, and it will be the end of France as a
great power. That's all."

"Won't it be the end of your factory too?"

"Noh!" exclaimed Sir Isaac, with careless compassion in his deep, viscid
voice. "If it's a short war, there'll be another war. You English will
never leave it alone. So that whatever happens, if I take up explosives,
I can't go wrong. It's velvet."

"It seems to me we shall bust up the whole world if we aren't careful,
soon."

Sir Isaac smiled more compassion.

"Not at all," he said easily. "Not at all. Things are always arranged in
the end--more or less satisfactorily, of course. It's up to the
individual to look out for himself."

George said:

"I was thinking of going into the Army."

The statement was not strictly untrue, but he had never formulated it,
and he had never thought consecutively of such a project, which did
indeed appear too wild and unpractical for serious consideration.

"This recruiting's been upsetting you."

George's vague patriotism seemed to curdle at these half-dozen scornful
words.

"Do you think I oughtn't to go into the Army, Sir Isaac?"

"My dear boy, any----can go into the Army. And if you go into the Army
you'll lose your special qualities. I see you as the best factory
designer we have, architecturally. You've only just started, but you
have it in you. And your barracks is pretty good. Of course, if you
choose to indulge in sentimentality you can deprive the country of an
architect in a million and make it a present of a mediocre soldier--for
you haven't got the mind of a soldier. But if you do that, mark my
words--you'll only do it to satisfy the egotism that you call your
heart, you'll only do it in order to feel comfortable; just as a woman
gives a penny to a beggar and thinks it's charity when it's nothing of
the sort. There are fellows that go and enlist because they hear a band
play."

"Yes," George concurred. He hated to feel himself confronted by a mind
more realistic than his own, but he was realistic enough to admit the
fact. What Sir Isaac said was unanswerable, and it appealed very
strongly to George. He cast away his sentimentality, ashamed of it. And
at the same time he felt greatly relieved in other ways.

"You'd better put this Indian barracks on one side as much as you can,
or employ some one to help you. I shall want all your energies."

"But I shall probably have to go to India. The thing's very urgent."

Sir Isaac scorned him in a profound gaze. The smoke from their two
magnificent cigars mingled in a canopy above them.

"Not it!" said Sir Isaac. "What's more, it's not wanted at all. They
think it is, because they're absolutely incapable of thought. They know
the word 'war' and they know the word 'barracks.' They put them together
and imagine it's logic. They say: 'We were going to build a barracks,
and now we're at war. Therefore we must hurry up with the barracks.'
That's how they reason, and the official mind will never get beyond it.
_Why_ do they want the barracks? If they want the barracks, what's the
meaning of what they call 'the response of the Indian Empire'? Are they
going to send troops to India or take them away from India? They're
going to take them away, of course. Mutiny of India's silent millions?
Rubbish! Not because a mutiny would contradict the far-famed 'response
of the Indian Empire,' but because India's silent millions haven't got a
rifle amongst them. You needn't tell me they've given you forty reasons
for getting on with that barracks. I know their reasons. All of 'em put
together only mean that in a dull, dim Oxford-and-Cambridge way they see
a connexion between the word 'war' and the word 'barracks.'"

George laughed, and then, after a few seconds, Sir Isaac gave a short,
rough laugh.

"But if they insist on me going to India--" George began, and paused.

Sir Isaac grew meditative.

"I say, speaking of voyages," he murmured in a tone almost dreamy. "If
you have any loose money, put it into ships, and keep it there. You'll
double it, you'll treble it.... Any ships. No matter what ships."

"Well, I haven't got any loose money," said George curtly. "And what I
want to know is, if they insist on me going to India, what am I to do?"

"Tell them you can't go. Tell 'em your professional engagements won't
permit it. They'll lick your boots, and ask humbly if you can suggest
any suitable person to represent you. I shall want all your energies,
and my factory will be worth more to this country in the war than all
the barracks under heaven. Now just bend your eye to these."

He took some papers from his tail-pocket. The discussion grew technical.


III


George sailed down Piccadilly westwards on the top of a motor-bus. The
August afternoon was superb. Piccadilly showed more than its usual
splendour of traffic, for the class to whom the sacred word 'England'
signified personal dominion and a vast apparatus of personal luxury
either had not gone away for its holiday or had returned therefrom in a
hurry. The newspaper placards spoke of great feats of arms by the
Allies. Through the leafage of Hyde Park could be seen uncountable smart
troops manoeuvring in bodies. On the top of the motor-bus a student of
war was explaining to an ignorant friend that the active adhesion of
Japan, just announced, meant the beginning of the end for Germany. Who
will be responsible for these lost souls, constantly coming into contact
with those who profess to know the Lord?

Why is it that so many Christians view life from an inverted
standpoint, attaching apparently vastly more importance to the few brief
years spent upon this earth, than to the countless cycles of
eternity?

Why not view it normally, making our one business that of serving
that blessed Christ?

Surely the saddest word in a Christian's vocabulary is indifference.

By-and-by many a one would doubtless gladly forfeit ten thousand years
of heavenly bliss just to recall the wasted opportunities of this
day.

It is an incomparable privilege to be a child of the King, and the only
way in which one may prove his appreciation and loyalty is by the
degree of consecration and quality of service rendered.

At the day of Christ's appearing there will be many an unrewarded
Christian, saved eternally by the precious blood of God's sacrificial
Lamb, but with no glittering starry crown to cast at those once-pierced
and bleeding feet!

If the reading of this little story draws any nearer to the Lord,
influencing them to become more diligent in their search for the lost,
it shall accomplish that whereunto it is prayerfully sent.

MAN'S QUESTIONS; GOD'S ANSWERS
Am I accountable to God?
"Every one of us shall give account of himself to God" (Romans
14:12).

Has God seen all my ways?
"All things are naked and opened unto the eyes of Him with whom we
have to do" (Hebrews 4:13).

Does He charge me with sin?
"The Scripture hath concluded all under sin" (Galatians 3:22).
"All have sinned" (Romans 3:23).

Will He punish sin?
"The soul that sinneth, it shall die" (Ezekiel 18:4).
"For the wages of sin is death" (Romans 6:23).

Must I perish?
"God is not willing that any perish, but that all should come to
repentance" (2 Peter 3:9).

How can I escape?
"Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved" (Acts
16:31).The war could not really touch him--no more
than it could touch Sir Isaac; by good fortune, and by virtue of the
impartiality of his intelligence, he was above the war.... Yes, Sir
Isaac, disliked and unwillingly but deeply respected, had cleared his
ideas for him.

In Elm Park Gardens he met the white-clad son of a Tory M.P. who lived
in that dignified street.

"The very man! Come and make a fourth, will you, Cannon?" asked the
youth, dandiacal in flannels, persuasively and flatteringly.

George demanded with firmness:

"Who are the other two?"

"Miss Horton and Gladys What's-her-name."

Why shouldn't he play at tennis? It was necessary to keep fit.

"All right. But not for long, you know."

"That's all right. Hurry up and get into your things."

"Ten minutes."

And in little more than ten minutes he was swinging a racket on the
private sward that separates Elm Park Gardens East from Elm Park Gardens
West, and is common to the residents of both. He had not encountered
Lois at home, and had not thought it necessary to seek her out. He and
she were often invited to play tennis in Elm Park Gardens.

The grass was beautifully kept. At a little distance two gardeners were
at work, and a revolving sprinkler whirled sprays of glinting water in a
wide circle. The back windows of the two streets disclosed not the
slightest untidiness nor deshabille; rising irregularly in tier over
tier to the high roof-line, they were all open, and all neatly
curtained, and many of them had gorgeous sun-blinds. The sound of one
or two pianos emerged faintly on the warm, still afternoon. Miss Horton
and the slim Gladys were dressed in white, with short skirts, at once
elegant and athletic. Miss Horton, very tall and strong, with clear
eyes, and a complexion damaged by undue exposure to healthy fresh air,
was a fine player of many years' experience, now at the decline of her
powers. She played seriously, every stroke conscientious and calculated,
and she gave polite, good-humoured hints to the youth, her partner.
George and Gladys were together. Gladys, eighteen, was a delightful
girl, the raw material of a very sound player; she held herself well,
and knew by instinct what style was. A white belt defined her waist in
the most enchanting fashion. George appreciated her, as a specimen of
the newest generation of English girls. There were thousands of them in
London alone, an endless supply, with none of the namby-pambiness and
the sloppiness and the blowziness of their forerunners. Walking in
Piccadilly or Bond Street or the Park, you might nowadays fancy yourself
in Paris ... Why indeed should he not be playing tennis at that hour?
The month was August. The apparatus of pleasure was there. Used or
unused, it would still be there. It could not be destroyed simply
because the times were grave. And there was his health; he would work
better after the exercise. What purpose could there be in mournful
inactivity? Yet continuously, as he ran about the court, and smiled at
Gladys, and called out the score, and exclaimed upon his failures in
precision, the strange, physical weight oppressed his stomach. He
supposed that nearly everybody carried that physical weight. But did Sir
Isaac? Did the delicious Gladys? The youth on the other side of the net
was in the highest spirits because in a few days he would be entering
Sandhurst.

A butler appeared from the French window of the ground floor of the
M.P.'s house, walked down the curving path screened by a pergola, and
came near the court with a small white paper in his solemn hand. At a
suitable moment he gave the paper to the young master, who glanced at it
and stuffed it into his pocket; the butler departed. A few minutes later
the players changed courts. While the girls chatted apart, the youth
leaped over the net, and, drawing the paper from his pocket, showed it
furtively to George. It bore the words:

"Namur has fallen."

The M.P.'s household received special news by telephone from a friend at
the War Office.

The youth raised his eyebrows, and with a side-glance seemed to say that
there could be no object in telling the women immediately. The next
instant the game was resumed with full ardour.

George missed his strokes. Like thousands of other people, untaught by
the episode of Liége, he had counted upon Namur. Namur, the bastion, the
shoulder of the newly forming line, if not impregnable, was expected to
hold out for many days. And it had tumbled like a tin church, and with
it the brave edifice of his confidence. He saw the Germans inevitably in
Paris, blowing up Paris quarter by quarter, arrondissement by
arrondissement, imposing peace, dictating peace, forcing upon Europe
unspeakable humiliations. He saw Great Britain compelled to bow; and he
saw worse than that. And the German officer, having struck across the
face with his cane the soldier standing at attention, would go back to
Germany in triumph more arrogant than ever, to ogle adoring virgins and
push cowed and fatuous citizens off the pavement into the gutter. The
solid houses of Elm Park Gardens, with their rich sun-blinds, the
perfect sward, the white-frocked girls, the respectful gardeners, the
red motor-buses flitting past behind the screen of bushes in the
distance, even the butler in his majestic and invulnerable
self-conceit--the whole systematized scene of correctness and tradition
trembled as if perceived through the quivering of hot air. Gladys,
reliant on the male and feeling that the male could no longer be relied
on, went 'off her game,' with apologies; the experience of Miss Horton
asserted itself, and the hard-fought set was lost by George and his
partner. He reminded the company that he had only come for a short time,
and left in a mood of bitter blackness.


IV


In front of his own house George saw a tradesman's coupé of the
superior, discreet sort, with a smart horse (the same being more
'distinctive' than motor-traction), a driver liveried in black, and the
initials of the firm in a restrained monogram on the doors. He thought:
"She's blueing money again. Of course it's her own, but--" He was
extremely sardonic. In the drawing-room he found not only Lois but
Laurencine and an attentive, respectful, bright-faced figure rather
stylishly dressed in black. This last was fastening a tea-gown on the
back of pale Lois, who stood up with a fatigued, brave air. Laurencine
sat critically observant on the end of a sofa. The furniture of the room
was heaped with tea-gowns, and other garments not very dissimilar,
producing a rich and exciting effect. All three women quickened to
George's entry.

"Oh! George!" said Lois querulously. "Are you going to play tennis? I
wish I could! I'm so glad you came in; we'd no idea you were in the
house, had we, Laurencine? Laurencine's giving me a tea-gown. Which of
them do you prefer? It's no good me having one you don't like."

He had been unjust to her, then.

"It's really her birthday present," said Laurencine, "only a bit late.
Oh! Dear! Darling, do sit down, you're standing too long."

Both Laurencine and the young woman in black regarded Lois with soft
compassion, and she sat down. Laurencine too was a mother. But she had
retained her girlhood. She was a splendid, powerful, erect creature,
handsome, with a frank, benevolent, sane face, at the height of her
physical perfection. George had a great fondness for her. Years earlier
he had wondered how it was that he had not fallen in love with her
instead of with Lois. But he knew the reason now. She lacked force of
individuality. She was an adorer by instinct. She adored Lois; Lois
could do no wrong. More strange, she adored her husband. Ingenuous
simpleton! Yet wise! Another thing was that her mind was too pure.
Instead of understanding, it rejected. It was a mind absolutely
impregnable to certain phenomena. And this girl still enjoyed musical
comedies and their successors in vogue, the revues!

"The Germans have taken Namur," George announced.

The news impressed. Even the young woman in black permitted herself by a
facial gesture to show that she was interested in the war as well as in
tea-gowns, and apart from its effect on tea-gowns.

"Oh! Dear!" murmured Laurencine.

"Is it serious?" Lois demanded.

"You bet it is!" George replied.

"But what's Sir John French doing, then? I say, Laurencine, I think I
shall have that pale blue one, after all, if you don't mind." The black
young woman went across to the piano and brought the pale blue one.
"George, don't you think so?"

The gown was deferentially held out for his inspection.

"Well, I can't judge if I don't see it on, can I?" he said, yielding
superciliously to their mood. Women were incurable. Namur had fallen,
but the room was full of finery, and the finery claimed attention. And
if Paris had fallen, it would have been the same. So he told himself.
Nevertheless the spectacle of the heaped finery and its absorbed
priestess was very agreeable. Lois rose. Laurencine and the priestess
helped her to remove the white gown she wore, and to put on the blue
one. The presence of the male somewhat disturbed the priestess, but the
male had signified a wish and the wish was flattering and had to be
fulfilled. George, cynically, enjoyed her constraint. He might at least
have looked out of the window, but he would not.

"Yes, that's fine," he decided carelessly, when the operation was done.
He did not care a pin which tea-gown Lois had.

"I knew you'd like it better," said Lois eagerly. The other two, in
words or by demeanour, applauded his august choice.

The affair was over. The priestess began to collect her scattered stock
into a light trunk. Behind her back, Lois took hold of Laurencine and
kissed her fondly. Laurencine smiled, and persuaded Lois into a chair.

"You will of course keep that on, madam?" the priestess suggested.

"Oh yes, darling, you must rest, really!" said Laurencine earnestly.

"Thank you, madam."

In three minutes the priestess, bearing easily the trunk by a strap, had
gone, bowing. Lois's old tea-gown, flung across the head of the sofa,
alone remained to brighten the furniture.

The drawing-room door opened again immediately, and a military officer
entered. Laurencine sprang up with a little girlish scream and ran to
him.

"Oh! Dearest! Have you got them already? You never told me you would
have! How lovely you look!"

Blushing with pleasure and pride, she kissed him. It was Everard Lucas.
Laurencine had come to Elm Park Road that afternoon with the first news
that Everard, through a major known to his late mother, had been offered
a commission in a Territorial line regiment. George, who saw Lucas but
seldom, had not the slightest idea of this enormous family event, and
he was astounded; he had not been so taken back by anything perhaps for
years. Lucas was rounder and his face somewhat coarser than in the past;
but the uniform had created a new Lucas. It was beautifully made and he
wore it well; it suited him; he had the fine military air of a regular;
he showed no awkwardness, only a simple vanity.

"Don't you feel as if you must kiss him, Lois darling?" said Laurencine.

"Oh! I certainly must!" Lois cried, forgetting her woes in the new
tea-gown and in the sudden ecstasy produced by the advent of an officer
into the family.

Lucas bent down and kissed his sister-in-law, while Laurencine beheld
the act with delight.

"The children must see you before you go," said Lois.

"Madam, they shall see their uncle," Lucas answered. At any rate his
agreeable voice had not coarsened. He turned to George: "What d'you
think of it, George?"

"My boy, I'm proud of you," said George. In his tennis-flannels he felt
like one who has arrived at an evening party in morning-dress. And
indeed he was proud of Lucas. Something profound and ingenuous in him
rose into his eyes and caused them to shine.

Lucas related his adventures with the tailor and other purveyors, and
explained that he had to 'join his regiment' the next day, but would be
able to remain in London for the present. George questioned him about
his business affairs.

"No difficulty about that whatever!" said Lucas lightly. "The old firm
will carry on as usual; Enwright and Orgreave will have to manage it
between them; and of course they wouldn't dream of trying to cut off the
spondulicks. Not that I should let that stop me if they did."

"Yes, it's all very well for _you_ to talk like that!" said Lois, with a
swift change of tone. "You've got partners to do your work for you, and
you've got money.... Have you written to mother, Laurencine?"

George objected to his wife making excuses. His gaze faltered.

"Of course, darling!" Laurencine answered eagerly, agreeing with her
sister's differentiation between George and Everard. "No, not yet. But
I'm going to to-night. Everard, we ought to be off."

"I've got a taxi outside," said Lucas.

"A taxi?" she repeated in a disappointed tone. And then, as an
afterthought: "Well, I have to call at Debenham's."

The fact was that Laurencine wanted to be seen walking with her military
officer in some well-frequented thoroughfare. They lived at Hampstead.

Lois rang the bell.

"Ask nurse to bring the children down, please--at once," she told the
parlourmaid.

"So this is the new tea-gown, if I mistake not!" observed Lucas in the
pause. "_Très chic_! I suppose Laurencine's told you all about the
chauffeur being run off with against his will by a passionate virgin.
_I_ couldn't start the car this morning myself."

"You never could start a car by yourself, my boy," said George. "What's
this about the passionate virgin?"


V


George woke up in the middle of the night. Lois slept calmly; he could
just hear her soft breathing. He thought of all the occupied bedrooms,
of the health of children, the incalculable quality in wives, the touchy
stupidity of nurses and servants. The mere human weight of the household
oppressed him terribly. And he thought of the adamant of landlords, the
shifty rapacity of tradesmen, the incompetence of clerks, the mere
pompous foolishness of Government departments, the arrogance of Jew
patrons, and the terrifying complexity of problems of architecture on a
large scale. He was the Atlas supporting a vast world a thousand times
more complex than any problem of architecture. He wondered how he did
it. But he did do it, alone; and he kept on doing it. Let him shirk the
burden, and not a world but an entire universe would crumble. If he told
Lois that he was going to leave her, she would collapse; she would do
dreadful things. He was indispensable not only at home but
professionally. All was upon his shoulders and upon nobody else's. He
was bound, he was a prisoner, he had no choice, he was performing his
highest duty, he was fulfilling the widest usefulness of which he was
capable ... Besides, supposing he did go insane and shirk the burden,
they would all say that he had been influenced by Lucas's uniform--the
mere sight of the uniform!--like a girl! He could not stand that,
because it would be true. Not that he would ever admit its truth! He
recalled Lucas's tact in refraining from any suggestion, even a jocular
suggestion, that he, George, ought also to be in uniform. Lucas was
always tactful. Be damned to his tact! And the too eager excuses made
by Lois in his behalf also grated on his susceptibility. He had no need
of excuses. The woman was taciturn by nature, and yet she was constantly
saying too much! And did any of the three of them--Lois, Laurencine, and
Lucas--really appreciate the war? They did not. They could not envisage
it. Lucas was wearing uniform solely in obedience to an instinct.

At this point the cycle of his reflections was completed, and began
again. He thought of all the occupied bedrooms.... Thus, in the dark,
warm night the contents of his mind revolved endlessly, with extreme
tedium and extreme distress, and each moment his mood became more
morbid.

An occasional sound of traffic penetrated into the room,--strangely
mournful, a reminder of the immense and ineffable melancholy of a city
which could not wholly lose itself in sleep. The window lightened. He
could descry his wife's portable clock on the night-table. A quarter to
four. Turning over savagely in bed, he muttered: "My night's done for.
And nearly five hours to breakfast. Good God!" The cycle resumed, and
was enlarged.

At intervals he imagined that he dozed; he did doze, if it is possible
while you are dozing to know that you doze. His personality separated
into two personalities, if not more. He was on a vast plain, and yet he
was not there, and the essential point of the scene was that he was not
there. Thousands and tens of thousands of men stood on this plain, which
had no visible boundaries. A roll-call was proceeding. A resounding and
mysterious voice called out names, and at each name a man stepped
briskly from the crowds and saluted and walked away. But there was no
visible person to receive the salute; the voice was bodiless. George
became increasingly apprehensive; he feared a disaster, yet he could not
believe that it would occur. It did occur. Before it arrived he knew
that it was arriving. The voice cried solemnly:

"George Edwin Cannon."

An awful stillness and silence followed, enveloping the entire infinite
plain. George trembled. He was there, but he was not there. Men looked
at each other, raising their eyebrows. The voice did not deign to repeat
the call. After a suitable pause, the voice cried solemnly:

"Everard Lucas."

And Lucas in his new uniform stepped gravely forward and saluted and
walked away.

"Was I asleep or awake?" George asked himself. He could not decide. At
any rate the scene impressed him. The bigness of the plain, the summons,
the silence, the utter absence of an expression of reproof or regret--of
any comment whatever.

At five o'clock he arose, and sat down in his dressing-gown at Lois's
very untidy and very small writing-desk, and wrote a letter on her
notepaper. The early morning was lovely; it was celestial.

"DEAR DAVIDS," the letter began.--That would annoy the fellow, who liked
the address respectful.--"Dear Davids, I have decided to join the Army,
and therefore cannot proceed further with your commission. However, the
general idea is complete. I advise you to get it carried out by Lucas &
Enwright. Enwright is the best architect in England. You may take this
from me. I'm his disciple. You might ring me up at the office this
afternoon.--Yours faithfully, GEORGE CANNON"

"P.S.--Assuming you go to Lucas & Enwright, I can either make some
arrangement with them as to sharing fees myself, or you can pay me an
agreed sum for the work I've done, and start afresh elsewhere. I shall
want all the money I can get hold of."

Yes, Sir Isaac would be very angry. George smiled. He was not
triumphant, but he was calm. In the full sanity of the morning, every
reason against his going into the Army had vanished. The material
objection was ridiculous--with Edwin Clayhanger at the back of him!
Moreover, some money would be coming in. The professional objection was
equally ridiculous. The design for the Indian barracks existed complete;
and middle-aged mediocrity could carry it out in a fashion, and Lucas &
Enwright could carry it out better than he could carry it out himself.
As for Davids, he had written. There was nothing else of importance in
his office. The other competition had not been won. If people said that
he had been influenced by Lucas's uniform, well, they must say it. They
would not say it for more than a few days. After a few days the one
interesting fact would be that he had joined. By such simple and curt
arguments did he annihilate the once overwhelming reasons against his
joining the Army.

But he did not trouble to marshal the reasons in favour of his joining
the Army. He had only one reason: he must! He quite ignored the larger
aspects of the war--the future of civilization, freedom versus slavery,
right versus wrong, even the responsibilities of citizenship and the
implications of patriotism. His decision was the product, not of
argument, but of feeling. However, he did not feel a bit virtuous. He
had to join the Army, and 'that was all there was to it.' A beastly
nuisance, this world-war! It was interfering with his private affairs;
it might put an end to his private affairs altogether; he hated
soldiering; he looked inimically at the military caste. An unspeakable
nuisance. And also they ought not be hasty to launse and cutte apostumes
and soores/ ne open the heedes/ ner to arrache bones broken/ but yf the
cause be apparant/ For they myght ellys lose theyr good renome And myght
better be callyd bouchers than helars or guarisshors of woundes and soores
And also hit behoueth that alle this maner of peple foresayd that
haue the charge for to make hole and guarisshe alle maner of maladyes
and Infirmitees that they first haue the cure of themself/ and they
ought to purge themself fro alle apostumes and alle vices/ In suche
wyse that they be net and honeste and enformed in alle good maners/
And that they shewe hem hole and pure & redy for to hele other And
herof sayth Boecius de Consolacione In his first booke that the
sterres that ben hid vnder the clowdes maye gyue no light.

And therfore yf ony man wole beholde clerly the verite.

Late hym wythdrawe hym fro the obscurete and derkenes of the clowdes
of ignorance/ for whan the engyne of a man sheweth in Ioye or in
sorowe/ The pensee or thought is enuoluped in obscurete & vnder the
clowdes.

[Illustration]
_The sixthe chapitre of the thirde book treteth of the sixth
pawn/
whiche is lykened to tauerners hostelers and vitayllers._
The sixthe pawn whiche standeth to fore the Alphyn on the lyfte
syde is made in thys forme.

For hit is a man that hath the right hande stracched oute as for
to calle men/ And holdeth in his lyfte hande a loof of breed and a
cuppe of wyn/ And on his gurdell hangynge a boudell of keyes/ And
this resembleth the Tauerners. hostelers. and sellars of vitaylle.

And thise ought proprely to be sette to fore the/ Alphyn as to fore
a Iuge For ther sourdeth ofte tymes amonge hem contencion noyse and
stryf/
whiche behoueth to be determyned and trayted by the alphyn/ whiche
is Iuge of the kynge/ And hit apperteyneth to them for to seke and
enquyre for good wyns and good vitayll for to gyue and selle to the
byers/ And to them that they herberowe/ And hit apperteyneth to
them well to kepe their herberowes and Innes/ and alle tho thyngis
that they brynge in to their loggynge and for to putte hyt in seure
and sauf warde and kepynge/
And the firste of them Is signefyed by the lyfte hande in whiche
he bereth brede and wyn/ and the seconde is signefied by the right
hande whiche Is stracched oute to calle men/ And the thirde is
representid by the keyes hangynge on y'e gurdell And thyse maner
of peple ought teschewethe synne of glotonye/ For moche peple comen
in to theyr howses for to drynke and to ete for whyche cause they
ought resonably to rewle them self and to refrayne them from to
moche mete and drynke/ to thende that they myght the more honestly
delyuere thyngis nedefull vnto the peple that come vnto them/ And
no thynge by oultrage that myght noye the body/ For hit happeth
ofte tymes that ther cometh of glotonye tencyons.
stryfs. ryottes. wronges. and molestacyons/ by whiche men lese other
while their handes. theyr eyen. and other of their membres/ And
somtyme ben slayn or hurt vnto the deth/ As it is wreton In vitas
patrum As on a tyme an heremyte wente for to visite his gossibs/
And the deuyll apperyd to hym on the waye in lykenes of an other
heremyte for to tempte hym/
and saide thou hast lefte thyn heremitage And goost to visyte thy
gossibs/ The behoueth by force to doo one of y'e thre thynges that
I shall saye to the/ thou shalt chese whether thou wylt be dronke/
or ellys haue to do flessly wyth thy gossib or ellys thou shalt sle
her husbond whiche is thy gossip also/ And the hermyte that thought
for to chese the leste euyll chace for to be dronke/ and whan he
cam vnto them he dranke so moche that he was veray dronke And whan
he was dronke and eschaussed wyth the wyn/ he wold haue a doo wyth
hys gossib/ And her husbonde withstode hym.

And than the hermyte slewe hym/ And after that laye by his gossib
and knewe her flessly/ And thus by this synne of dronkenship he
accomplisshid the two other synnes/ By whyche thynge y'e may
vnderstande and knowe y't whan the deuyll wyll take one of the
castellis of Ihesu cryst/ that is to wete the body of a man or of
a woman/ he doth as a prynce that setteth a siege to fore a castell
that he wold wynne/ whiche ent[=e]deth to wynne the gate/ For he
knoweth well whan he hath wonne the gate/ he may sone doo hys wylle
wyth the castell.

And in lyke wyse doth the deuyll wyth euery man and woman For whan
he hathe wonne the gate/ that is to wete the gate of y'e mouth by
glotonye or by other synne He may doo wyth the offices of the body
alle his wylle as y'e haue herd to fore/ And therfore ought euery
man ete and drynke sobrely in suche wyse as he may lyue.

And not lyue to ete glotonsly & for to drynke dronke. y'e see comunly that
a grete bole is suffisid wyth right a lityll pasture/ And that a wode
suffiseth to many olefauntes And hit behoueth a man to be fedde by the
erthe or by the see/ neuertheles it is no grete thynge to fede the bely/
no thynge so grete as is the desire of many metes Wherof Quyntylian
sayth/ That hit happeth ofte tymes in grete festes & dyners/ that
we be fylde wyth the sight of the noble and lichorous metis and
whan we wolde ete we ben saciat and fild/
And therfore hit is sayd in prouerbe/ hit is better to fylle the
bely than the eye/ And lucan sayth that glotonye is the moder of
alle vices/
and especiall of lecherye/ and also is destroyer of all goodes And
may not haue suffisance of lityll thynge/ A couetous honger what
sekest thou mete and vitayllis on the lande & in the see/ And thy
Ioye is nothynge ellis but to haue playnteuous disshes & well fylde
at thy table lerne how men may demene his lyf with lityll thynge/
And Cathon sayth in no wyse obeye to glotonye whiche is frende to
lecherye/ And the holy doctour saynt Augustyn sayth/ the wyn
eschausseth the bely that falleth anone to lecherye/ The bely and
the membrers engendreurs ben neyghebours to lecherye/ And thus the
vice of glotonye prouoketh lecherye/ wherof cometh forgetenes of
his mynde and destruction of alle quyk and sharp reson And is cause
of distemþance of his wittes/ what synne is fowler than this synne
and more stynkynge ne more domageous For this synne hath taken away
the vertue of the man/ his prowesse languisshed/ his vertue is
torned to diffame/ the strengthe of body and of corage is torned
by the/ And therfore sayth Basille le grant/ late vs take hede how
we serue the bely & the throte by glotonye lyke as we were dombe
bestes/ and we studye for to be lyke vnto belucs of the see/ to
whom nature hath gyuen to be alleway enclined toward the erthe &
ther to loke for to serue theyr belyes/ And herof saith Boecius de
consolacione in his fourth book/ that a man that lyuyth and doth
not the condicions of a man/ may neuer be in good condicion/ Than
muste hit nedes be that he be transported in nature of a beste or
of a belue of the see.

How well that ryght grete men and women full of meruayllous sciences
and noble counceyll in thise dayes in the world ben kept and
nourisshid in this glotonye of wyns and metes/ and ofte tymes ben
ouerseen/ how suppose y'e/
is hit not right a perillous thinge that a lord or gouernour of the
peple and c[=o]mun wele/ how well that he be wyse/ yf he eschauffe
hym sone so that y'e wyn or other drynke surpryse hym and ouercome
his brayn. his wisedom is loste/ For as Cathon sayth/ Ire enpessheth
the corage in suche as he may not kepe verite and trouthe And anon
as he is chauffed/ lecherye is meuyd in hym in suche wyse that the
lecherye maketh hym to medle in dyuerse villayns dedes/ For than
his wyfedom is a slepe and goon/ And therfore fayth Ouide in his
booke De remedio amoris/
yf thou take many and dyuerce wyns/ they apparylle and enforce the
corages to lecherye And Thobie witnessith in his booke/ that luxurye
destroyeth the body/ and mynussheth richesses/ she loseth the sowle/
she febleth y'e strengthe she blyndeth the syght/ and maketh the
wys hoos & rawe/ Ha A ryght euyll and fowle synne of dronkenship/
by the perissheth virginite/ whiche is suster of angellis possedynge
alle goodnes and seurte of all Ioyes pardurable/ Noe was one tyme
so chauffed with wyn/
that he discouerd and shewid to his sones his preuy membres in suche
wyse as one of his sones mocqued hym/ And that other couerd hem/
And loth whiche was a man right chaste. was so assoted by moche
drynkynge of wyn/ that on a montayne he knew his doughters carnelly/
And had to doo wyth them as they had ben his propre wyues.

And crete reherceth that boece whiche was flour of the men/ tresor of
rychesses/ singuler house of sapience myrour of the world/ Odour
of good renome/ and glorye of his subgettis loste alle thyse thynges
by his luxurye We haue seen that dyuerce that were Ioyned by grete
amyte to geder whiles they were sobre/
that that one wolde put his body in paryll of deth for that other/
and whan they were eschauffed with wyn & dronke/ they haue ronne
eche vpon other for to fle* hem/ And somme haue ben that haue slayn
so his frende/
Herodes Antipas had not doon saynt Iohn baptist to ben beheded/ ne
had y'e dyner ben full of glotonye and dronkenship/ Balthazar kynge
of babilone had not ben chaced out of his kyngdom ne be slayn yf
he had ben sobre amonge his peple whom tyrus and dares fonde dronken
and slewe hym The hostelers ought to be well bespoken and courtoys
of wordes to them that they receyue in to their loggynge For fayr
speche & Ioyous chiere & debonayr/ cause men to gyue the hostelyer
a good name/ And therfore it is said in a comyn prouerbe/ Courtoyse
langage and well saynge is moche worth and coste lityll/ And in an
other place it is said that curtoysie passeth beaulte/ Also for as
moche as many paryls and aduentures may happen on the wayes and
passages to hem that ben herberowed with in their Innes/ therfore
they ought to accompanye them whan they departe and enseigne them
the wayes and telle to them the paryls/ to thende that they may
surely goo theyr viage and Iourney/ And also they ought to kepe
their bodies, their goodes.

And the good fame and renomee of their Innes/ we rede that loth
whan he had receyuyd the angels in to his hous right debonairly
whiche he had suppofid had ben mortall men and stra[=u]gers/ to
thende that they shold eskape the disordinate and vnnaturell synne
of lecherye of the sodamites/ by the vertu of good fayth/ he sette
a part the naturell loue of a fader/ and proferd to them his doughters
whiche were virgyns/ to thende that they shld kepe them and defende
them fro that vyllayne and horrible synne/ And knowe y'e for certayn
that alle tho thynges that ben taken and delyueryd to kepe to the
hoste or hostesses they ought to be sauf and yelden agayn wyth out
a payringe For the ooste ought to knowe/ who that entryth in to his
hous for to be herberowhed taketh hit for his habitacion for the
tyme/ he hymself and alle suche thynges as he bryngeth wyth hym ben
comysed of ryght in the warde and kepynge of the hoost or hosteler
And ought to be as sauf as they were put in his owen propre hous
And also suche hoostis ought to hold seruantes in their houses
whiche shold be trewe and wyth oute auarice In suche wise that they
coueyte not to haue the goodes of their ghestes And that they take
not away the prouender fro theyr horses whan hyt is gyuen to them/
that by thoccasion therof theyr horsis perisshe not ne faylle theyr
maister whan they haue nede/ and myght falle in the handes of theyr
enemyes/ For than sholde the seruantes because of that euyll/
wherfore theyr maisters shold see to For wyth oute doubte this
thynge is worse than thefte Hit happend on a tyme in the parties
of lomberdye in the cyte of Iene y't a noble man was logged in an
hostelerye wyth moche compaignye/ And whan they had gyuen prouendour
to their horses/ In the first oure of the nyght, the seruant of the
hous cam secretly to fore y'e horses for to stele away their
prouender/ And whan he cam to the lordes hors/ The hors caught wyth
his teth his Arme and helde hit faste that he myght not escape/ And
whan the theef sawe that he was so strongly holden/ he began to
crye for the grete payne that he suffryd and felte/ In suche wyse
that the noble mannes meyne cam with the hooste/ But in no maner/
ner for ought they coude doo They coude not take the theef out of
the horses mouth vnto the tyme that the neyghbours whiche were noyed
wyth the noyse cam and sawe hit/ And than the theef was knowen and
taken and brought to fore the Iuge And confessid the feet and by
sentence diffinytyf was hanged and lost his lyf/ And in the same
wyse was an other that dyde so/ And the hors smote hym in the visage/
That the prynte of the horse shoo and nayles abode euer in his
visage/ Another was right cruell and villaynous fylle at tholouse/
Hit happend a Ionge man and his fader wente a pilgremage to saynt
Iames in Galyce And were logged in an hostelrye of an euyll hoost
and full of right grete couetyse/ In so moche that he defired and
coueyted the goodes of the two pilgrimes And here vpon auysed hym
and put a cuppe of siluer secretly in the male that the yonge man
bare/ And whan they departed oute of their loggynge/ he folowed
after hem and sayd to fore the peple of the court that they had
stolen and born away his cuppe/ And the yonge man excused hym selfe
and his fader/ And sayde they were Innocent of that caas/ And than
they serchid hem and the cuppe was founden in the male of the yonge
man And forthwyth he was dampned to the deth and hanged as a theef/
and this feet doon all the goodes that langed to the pilgrym were
deliuerid to the ooft as c[=o]fisqued And than the fader wente for
to do his pilgremage/ and whan he cam agayn he muste nedes come &
passe by the place where his sone henge on the gibet And as he cam
he complaygned to god and to saynt Iames how they might suffre this
auenture to come vnto his sone,' Anone his sone that henge spack
to his fader And sayde how that saynt Iames had kepte hym with out
harme And bad his fader goo to the Iuge and shewe to hym the myracle/
And how he was Innocent of thot fayte/ And whan this thynge was
knowen the sone of the pilgryme was taken down fro the gibet/ and
the cause was brought to fore the Iuge And the hooste was accused
of the trayson/ and he confessid his trespaas/ and sayd he dide hit
for couetyse to haue his good And than the Iuge dampned hym for to
be hanged on the same gibet where as the yonge pilgryme was hanged
And that I haue sayd of the seruantes beynge men/ the same I saye
of the women as chambriers and tapsters For semblable caas fille
in spayne at saynt donne of a chamberier/ that put a cup in lyke
wyse in the scrippe of a pilgryme/ be cause he wold not haue a doo
wyth her in the synne of lecherye/ wherfore he was hanged And his
fader & moder that were there with hym wente and dyde her pilgremage/
And whan they cam agayn they fonde her sone lyuynge/ And whan they
wente and told the Iuge/ whiche Iuge sayd that he wolde not byleue
hit tyll a cok and an henne which rosted on the fyre were a lyue &
the cok crewe.

And anon they began wexe a lyue & the cok crewe and began to crowe and
to pasture/ and whan the Iuge sawe this miracle/ he wente and toke
doun the sone/ and made the chamberyer to be taken and to be hanged/
wherfore I saye that the hoostes ought to hold no tapsters ne
chamberyers/ but yf they were good meure and honeste/ For many
harmes may be falle and come by the disordenat rewle of seruantes.

[Illustration]
_The seventh chapitre of the thirde Tractate treteth of kepars of
townes customers and tolle gaderers &c._
The gardes and kepars of of cytees ben signefied by the .vii. pawn
whiche stondeth in the lyfte side to fore the knyght/ And is formed
in the semblance of a man holdynge in his right hande grete keyes
And in his lifte hande a potte & an elle for to mesure with And
ought to haue on hys gurdell a purse open/ And by the keyes ben
signefyed the kepars of the cytees and townes and comyn offices/
And by the potte and elle ben signefyed them that haue the charge
to weye and mete & mesure truly And by the purse ben signefyed them
that reseyue the costumes. tolles.
scawage. peages/ and duetes of the cytees & townes And thyse peple
ben sette by ryght to fore the knyght/ And hit behoueth that the
gardes and offycers of the townes be taught And enseygned by the
knyghtes/ And that they knowe and enquyre how y'e cytees or townes
ben gouerned/ whiche apperteyneth to be kept and defended by the
knyghtes.

And first hit apperteyneth that the kepars of the cyte be dilygente.
besy. clere seeynge and louers of the comyn prouffit & wele/ as
well in the tyme of pees as in the tyme of warre/ They ought allewaye
to goo in the cyte and enquyre of all thynges and ought rapporte
to the gouernours of the cyte suche thynge as they fynde and knowe
And suche thynge as apperteyneth and to the seuerte of the same/
and to den[=o]nce and telle the defaultes and paryls that ther bee/
And yf hit be in tyme of warre they ought not to open the yates by
nyght to no man/ And suche men as ben put in this office/ ought to
be of good renome. & fame, trewe. and of good conscience/ In suche
maner that they loue them of the Cyte or town/ And that they put
to no man ony blame or vilanye with out cause by enuye.

Couetyse ne by hate/ but they ought to be sory and heuy whan they
see that ony man shold be complayned on for ony cause.

For hit happeth ofte tymes that diuerce officers accuse the good
peple fraudulently/ To thende that they myght haue a thanke & be
preysed and to abide stille in theyr offices And trewly hit is a
grete and hye maner of malyse to be in will to doo euyll and diffame
other wyth oute cause to gete glorie to hymself Also the kepars and
officers of cytees ought to be suche that they suffre no wronges
ne vylonyes to fore the Iuges and gouernours of cytees wyth out
cause to be doon to them that ben Innocents/ but they ought to haue
theyr eyen and regarde vnto hym/ that knoweth the hertes and thoughtes
of alle men/ And they ought to drede & doubte hym wyth oute whos
grace theyr wacche and kepynge is nought And that promyseth to them
that doubte hym shall be ewrous & happy/ And by hym ben alle thynges
accomplisshid in good/ Hit is founden in the historyes of rome that
Temperour Frederik the seconde dide do make a gate of marble of
meruayllous werke and entayll in the cyte of capnane vpon the watre
that renneth aboute the same/ and vpon this yate he made an ymage
lyke hymself sittynge in his mageste/ and two Iuges whiche were
sette/ one on the right side and that other on the lifte side.

And vpon the sercle aboue the hede of the Iuge on y'e ryght side
was wreton/ Alle they entre seurly that will liue purely/ And vpon
the sercle of the Iuge on the lifte side was wreton/ The vntrewe
man ought to doubte/ to doo thynge that he be put to prison fore/
and on the sercle aboue thempour was wreton/ I make them live in
misery/ that I see lyue dismesurably/ And therfore hit apperteyneth
to a Iuge to shewe to the peple for to drede and doubte to doo
eyull/ And hit apperteyneth to the gardes and officers to doubte
the Iuges and to do trewly their seruyces and offices And hit
apperteyneth to a prynce to menace the traytours and the malefactours
of right greuous paynes.

And herof we fynde in the auncyent historyes of cecylle that the
kynge denys had a broder whom he louyd sore well/ But allway where
he wente he made heuy and tryste semblant/ And thus as they wente
bothe to gyder on a tyme in a chare/ ther cam agayn hem two poure
men wyth glad visage but in foule habite/ And y'e kynge anon as he
sawe them/ sprange out of his chare and resseyuyd them worshipfully
with grete reuerence/ wherfore his barons were not only ameruaylled
but also angry in their corages/ notwithstandynge fere and drede
letted them to demande hym the cause/ But they made his broder to
demande the cause and to knowe the certaynte/ And whan he had herde
his broder saye to hym the demande/ and that he was blessyd & also
a kynge whiche was ryche and full of delites & worshipis/ he demanded
hym yf he wold assaye & knowe the grace and beneurte of a kynge And
his broder answerd y'e/ And that he desired and requyred hit of
hym/ and than the kinge comanded vnto alle his fugettis that they
shold obeye in alle thynges only vnto his broder And than whan the
oure of dyner cam and alle thynge was redy/ the broder was sette
at the table of the kynge And whan he sawe that he was seruyd wyth
right noble botelliers and other officers.

And he herde the sownes of musicque right melodious The kynge
demanded hym than/ yf he supposid y't he were benerous and blessid.

And he answerd I wene well that I am right well blessid and fortunat/
and that I haue well proued and fele and am expert therof And than
the kynge secretly made to be hanged ouer his heed a sharp cuttynge
swerde hangynge by an hors heer or a silken threde so small that
no man myght see hit where by hit henge/ and whan he sawe his broder
put no more his hand to the table/ ne had no more regarde vnto his
seruantes/ he sayd to hym why ete y'e not/ ar y'e not blessid/ saye
yf y'e fele ony thynge otherwyse than blessid and well/ And he
answerde for as moche as I see this sharp swerde hangynge so subtilly
and parillously ouer my hede I fele well that I am not blessid for
I drede that hit shold falle on my hede/ and than discouerd the
kynge vnto hem alle wherfore he was allway so heuy cherid and triste
For where he was/ he thought alleway on the swerde of the secrete
vengeance of god/
whiche he behelde alleway in his herte/ wherfore he had all way in
hymself grete drede And therfore he worshipid gladly the poure peple
wyth glad visage and good conscience And by this sheweth the kynge
well/
that what man that is all way in drede is not all way mery or blessid.

The encounter was unfortunate. George, taken
aback, muddled his share of the rite. Further, the self-consciousness of
the potential Vice-President of the Royal Institute of British
Architects was so extreme in uniform that it could scarcely have been
more extreme had he been thrust by destiny into Oxford Street naked. He
returned to the shop and said:

"I think I'll take everything home myself, to make sure. You might get
me a taxi."

He crept into his own house furtively with his parcels, like a criminal,
though he well knew that the servants would be ready to worship him as a
new god. The children were evidently out. Lois was not in the
drawing-room. He ran to the bedroom. She lay on the sofa.

"Here I am!" he announced, posing bravely for her inspection.

She did not move for a few seconds. Her eyes were hard-set. Then she
gave a tremendous shattering sob, and burst into wild tears. George
stooped to pick up a telegram which was lying on the floor. It read:

"You are to report to Adjutant Headquarters Second First West Midland
R.F.A. Wimbledon to-morrow Tuesday before noon."

The Army had not forgotten him. Throughout the week his name upon
various forms had been under the eye of authority, and at last the order
had gone forth.


III


The next morning, after a disturbed night, Lois was taken ill. George
telephoned for the doctor, and as soon as he had seen the patient the
doctor telephoned for the nurse, and as soon as the doctor had
telephoned for the nurse George telephoned for Laurencine. What with
George's uniform and approaching departure, and the premature seizure of
Lois, the household had, in an exceedingly short time, reached a state
of intense excitement and inefficiency. Nurse was with Lois; the
children were with cook in the kitchen; the other two servants were
noisily and vaguely active on the stairs and the landings. The breakfast
had been very badly cooked; the newspapers, with a detailed description
of the retreat from Mons, were not glanced at. George was expecting a
letter from his mother concerning the arrangements for the visit of Lois
and the children to Ladderedge, already decided upon, and no letter had
come.

At half-past ten he sent the parlourmaid to get a taxi. Having inspected
his luggage in the hall, he went to the telephone again and ascertained
that Laurencine had actually started from home. Almost at the same
moment a taxi stopped in front of the house. "She's been jolly quick,"
thought George, meaning the parlourmaid; but going to the window he saw
that his stepfather and his mother were in the taxi. He did not rush out
to them. He did not move. The comfortable sense of the perfect
reliability and benevolence of his 'people' filled and warmed him. They
had not written again; they had just come themselves.

He affectionately and critically watched them as they got out of the
taxi. Alderman Edwin Clayhanger, undeniably stout, with grey hair and
beard, was passing from middle-age into the shadow of the sixties. He
dressed well, but the flat crown of his felt hat, and the artificial,
exaggerated squareness of the broad shoulders, gave him a provincial
appearance. His gesture as he paid the driver was absolutely
characteristic--a mixture of the dignified and the boyish, the
impressive and the timid. He had descended from the vehicle with
precautions, but Mrs. Clayhanger jumped down lightly, though she was
about as old and as grey as her husband. Her costume was not successful;
she did not understand and never had understood how to dress herself.
But she had kept her figure; she was as slim as a girl, and as restless.

George ran to the door, which the feverish parlourmaid had neglected to
shut. His mother, mounting the steps, was struck full in the face by the
apparition of her son in uniform. The entry in the books of the
Mercers' Company leads to the inference that Caxton was born about
1422.

Probably on the death of Large, in 1441, Caxton went abroad, for he tells
us that in 1471 he had been resident outside England for thirty
years.

About 1462 or 1463 he was Governor of the English Nation or Merchant
Adventurers at Bruges.

This was a position of great influence, and it is thought to have
enabled the loyal mercer to give good service to Edward IV., who was an
exile in 1470.

Caxton's marriage was not much later than 1469, and it is conjectured
that this led him to enter the service of the Duchess of Burgundy.

She had literary tastes, and at her request he translated the
"Recuyell des Histoires de Troyes" of Raoul Le Fevre.

It was the demand for copies of this that exhausted Caxton's
calligraphic patience, and led to his employment of a printer.

The incident may have been casual, but it led to great results.

It has been said that he learned the printers' art at Cologne, but Mr.
Blades supposes that he entered its mystery at Bruges under Colard
Mansion, with whom he appears to have had some partnership.

Probably towards the end of 1476 Caxton returned to England. He had the
favour of Edward IV. and of his sister, Duchess of Burgundy, and
the friendship of the King's brother-in-law, Earl Rivers.

Ninety-nine distinct productions issued from Caxton's press, he was
printer, publisher, translator, and something of author as well.

He set in good earnest about the work that is still going on--of making
the best accessible literature widely and commonly known. This useful
career was only ended by his death.

The exact date is not known, but it was probably late in 1491.

He left a married daughter. Caxton was a good business man.

He was also a sincere lover of literature, and he was at his favourite
work of translation only a few hours before the final summons came.

The quality of Caxton as a translator is not a matter of much doubt.

"I suppose she'll be all _right_?"

"Doctor seems to think so."

"Yes. They generally are." The Alderman sighed pleasantly and dropped
rather heavily into a chair.

"Have a cigarette?"

"No!" The Alderman refused regretfully. "I've got a new rule now. I
don't smoke till after dinner."

There was a pause.

"I'm glad we came."

"So'm I."

"You needn't worry about anything. Your mother and I will see to
everything. I'll go up and have a talk with Johnnie about the leases."

"Thanks."

"What about money?"

"I'll write you. No hurry."

"What sort of a woman is Laurencine? I've scarcely set eyes on her."

"She's fine."

"She is?"

"Yes."

"Will she hit it off with your mother?"

"Trust her."

"Well, then, I think I'll have one o' them cigarettes."

They smoked in taciturnity, nervous but relieved. They had said what
they had to say to each other. After a time George remarked:

"I heard last night there was a chance of me being Vice-President of the
Institute this year if I hadn't gone into the Army."

Mr. Clayhanger raised his eyebrows.

"That'll keep all right for later."

"Yes."

Mrs. Clayhanger hurried into the dining-room. She had removed her hat
and gloves.

"Lois wants to see you."

"I was just coming up. I've got to go now." He glanced at his watch.

"Go where?" It was like Mrs. Clayhanger to ask a question to which she
knew the answer. Her ardent eyes, set a little too close together in the
thin, lined, nervous face, burned upon him challengingly.

"I told you! I have to report at Headquarters before noon."

"But you don't mean to say you're going to leave your wife like this!
She's very ill."

"I'm bound to leave her."

"But you can't leave her."

The Alderman said:

"The boy's quite right. If he's got to report he's got to report."

"And supposing she was dying?"

"Now, missis, we needn't suppose that. She isn't."

"It would be just the same if she was," Mrs. Clayhanger retorted
bitterly. "I don't know what men are coming to. But I know this--all
husbands are selfish. They probably don't know it, but they are."

She wept angrily.

"Don't you understand I'm in the machine now, mater?" said George
resentfully as he left the room.

In the bedroom Lois lay on her back, pale, perspiring, moaning. He
kissed her, glanced at the doctor for instructions, and departed. Lois
was not in a condition to talk, and the doctor wished her not to speak.
Then George went to the kitchen and took leave of the children, and
incidentally of the servants. The nurse was arriving as he re-entered
the dining-room; he had seized his cap in the hall and put it on.

"Better give me an address," said the Alderman.

"You might wire during the day," George said, scribbling on a loose leaf
from his pocket-book, which he had to search for in unfamiliar pockets.

"The idea had occurred to me," the Alderman smiled.

"Au revoir, mater."

"But you've got plenty of time!" she protested.

"I know," said he. "I'm not going to be late. I haven't the slightest
notion where Headquarters are, and supposing the taxi had a break-down!"

He divined from the way in which she kissed him good-bye that she was
excessively proud of him.

"Mater," he said, "I see you're still a girl."

As he was leaving, Mr. Clayhanger halted him.

"You said something in your last letter about storing the furniture,
didn't you? Have ye made any inquiries?"

"No. But I've told Orgreave. You might look into that, because--well,
you'll see."

From the hall he glanced into the dining-room and up the stairs. The
furniture that filled the house had been new ten years earlier; it had
been anybody's furniture. The passage of ten years, marvellously swift,
had given character to the furniture, charged it with associations,
scarred it with the history of a family--his family, individualized it,
humanized it. It was no longer anybody's furniture. With a pang he
pictured it numbered and crowded into a warehouse, forlorn, thick with
dust, tragic, exiled from men and women.

He drove off, waving. His stepfather waved from the door, his mother
waved from the dining-room; the cook had taken the children into the
drawing-room, where they shook their short, chubby arms at him, smiling.
By the way, aren't you chaps in the hold a little easier than you
were?"
There was just as much groaning and straining as ever, but it was
not so loud or squeaky in tone; and when the ship quivered she did
not jar stiffly, like a poker hit on the floor, but gave a supple
little waggle, like a perfectly balanced golf club.

"We have made a most amazing discovery," said the stringers, one
after another; "a discovery that entirely changes the situation. We
have found, for the first time in the history of shipbuilding, that the
inward pull of the deck beams and the outward thrust of the frames
locks us, as it were, more closely in our places, and enables us to
endure a strain which is entirely without parallel in the records of
marine architecture."
The steam turned a laugh quickly into a roar up the foghorn. "What massive
intellects you great stringers have!" he said, softly, when he had
finished.

"We, also," began the deck beams, "are discoverers and geniuses. We are
of opinion that the support of the hold-pillars materially helps
_us_. We find that we lock upon them when we are subjected to a heavy
and singular weight of sea above."
Here the "Dimbula" shot down a hollow, lying almost on her side, and
righting at the bottom with a wrench and a spasm.

"In these cases--are you aware of this, steam?--the plating at the bows,
and particularly at the stern,--we would also mention the floors beneath
us,--helps _us_ to resist any tendency to spring." It was the frames who
were speaking in the solemn and awed voice which people use when they
have just come across something entirely new for the very first time.

"I'm only a poor, puffy little flutterer," said the steam, "but I
have to stand a good deal of pressure in my business.

It's all tremendously interesting.

Tell us some more.

You fellows are _so_ strong."

"You'll see," said the bow plates proudly. "Ready behind there! Here's
the father and mother of waves coming! Sit tight, rivets all!" The
great sluicing comber thundered by, but through all the scuffle
and confusion the steam could hear the low, quick cries of the
iron-work as the various strains took them--cries like these: "Easy
now, easy!

_Now_ push for all your strength! Hold out! Give a fraction! Hold up!

Pull in! Shove crossways! Mind the strain at the ends!

Grip now! Bite tight! Let the water get away from under, and there
she goes."

The wave raced off into the darkness shouting, "Not bad that, if
it's your first run!"

and the drenched and ducked ship throbbed to the beat of the engines
inside her.

All three cylinders were wet and white with the salt spray that had
come down through the engine-room hatch; there was white salt on
the canvas-bound steam pipes, and even the bright work below was
speckled and soiled; but the cylinders had learned to make the most
of steam that was half water, and were pounding along cheerfully.

"How's the noblest outcome of human ingenuity hitting it?" said the
steam, as he whirled through the engine room.

"Nothing for nothing in the world of woe," the cylinders answered, as
if they had been working for centuries, "and precious little for
seventy-five pounds head.

We've made two knots this last hour and a quarter!

Rather humiliating for eight hundred horse-power, isn't it?"
"Well, it's better than drifting astern, at any rate.

You seem rather less--how shall I put it?

--stiff in the back than you were."

"If you'd been hammered as we've been this night, you wouldn't be
stiff--ffreff--ff--either.

Theoreti--retti--retti--cally, of course, rigidity is _the_ thing.

Purr--purr--practically, there has to be a little give and take. _We_
found that out by working on our sides for five minutes at a stretch--chch--chh.
How's the weather?"

"Sea's going down fast," said the steam.

"Good business," said the high-pressure cylinder. "Whack her up along,
boys. They've given us five pounds more steam;" and he began humming
the first bars of "Said the young Obadiah to the old Obadiah,"
which, as you must have noticed, is a pet tune among engines not
made for high speed. Racing liners with twin screws sing "The Turkish
Patrol" and the overture to the "Bronze Horse" and "Madame Angot,"
till something goes wrong, and then they give Gounod's "Funeral March
of a Marionette" with variations.

"You'll learn a song of your own some fine day," said the steam, as he
flew up the foghorn for one last bellow.

Next day the sky cleared and the sea dropped a little, and the "Dimbula"
began to roll from side to side till every inch of iron in her was
sick and giddy. But, luckily, they did not all feel ill at the same time;
otherwise she would have opened out like a wet paper box.

The steam whistled warnings as he went about his business, for it is
in this short, quick roll and tumble that follows a heavy sea that
most of the accidents happen; because then everything thinks that the
worst is over and goes off guard. So he orated and chattered till the
beams and frames and floors and stringers and things had learned how to
lock down and lock up on one another, and endure this new kind of
strain.

They had ample time, for they were sixteen days at sea, and it
was foul weather till within a hundred miles of New York.

The "Dimbula" picked up her pilot, and came in covered with salt and
red rust.

Her funnel was dirty gray from top to bottom; two boats had been
carried away; three copper ventilators looked like hats after a
fight with the police; the bridge had a dimple in the middle of it;
the house that covered the steam steering-gear was split as with
hatchets; there was a bill for small repairs in the engine room
almost as long as the screw-shaft; the forward cargo hatch fell
into bucket staves when they raised the iron crossbars; and the
steam capstan had been badly wrenched on its bed.

Altogether, as the skipper said, it was "a pretty general average."

"But she's soupled," he said to Mr. Buchanan.

"For all her dead weight, she rode like a yacht. Ye mind that last blow
off the Banks?

I was proud of her."
"It's vara good," said the chief engineer, looking along the dishevelled
decks. "Now, a man judging superficially would say we were a wreck,
but we know otherwise--by experience."
Naturally, everything in the "Dimbula" stiffened with pride, and the
foremast and the forward collision bulkhead, who are pushing creatures,
begged the steam to warn the port of New York of their arrival. "Tell
those big boats all about us," they said. "They seem to take us quite as
a matter of course."
It was a glorious, clear, dead calm morning, and in single file, with
less than half a mile between each, their bands playing, and their
tugboats shouting and waving handkerchiefs beneath, were the "Majestic,"
the "Paris," the "Touraine," the "Servia," the "Kaiser Wilhelm
II." and the "Werkendam," all statelily going out to sea.

As the "Dimbula" shifted her helm to give the great boats clear way, the
steam (who knows far too much to mind making an exhibition of himself now
and then) shouted:

"Oyez! oyez! oyez! Princes, Dukes, and Barons of the High Seas!

Know ye by these presents we are the 'Dimbula,' fifteen days nine hours
out from Liverpool, having crossed the Atlantic with four thousand
ton of cargo for the first time in our career.

We have not foundered! We are here! Eer! eer! We are not disabled. But we
have had a time wholly unparalleled in the annals of shipbuilding.
Our decks were swept. We pitched, we rolled! We thought we were going
to die! Hi! hi! But we didn't! We wish to give notice that we have come
to New York all the way across the Atlantic, through the worst weather
in the world; and we are the 'Dimbula.' We are--arr--ha--ha--ha-r-r!"

The beautiful line of boats swept by as steadily as the procession of
the seasons. The "Dimbula" heard the "Majestic" say "Humph!" and the
"Paris" grunted "How!" and the "Touraine" said "Oui!" with a little
coquettish flicker of steam; and the "Servia" said "Haw!"

and the "Kaiser" and the "Werkendam" said "Hoch!" Dutch fashion--and that
was absolutely all.

"I did my best," said the steam, gravely, "but I don't think they were
much impressed with us, somehow. Do you?"
"It's simply disgusting," said the bow-plates. "They might have seen
what we've been through. There isn't a ship on the sea that has suffered
as we have--is there now?"
"Well, I wouldn't go so far as that," said the steam, "because I've worked
on some of those boats, and put them through weather quite as bad
as we've had in six days; and some of them are a little over ten
thousand tons, I believe.

Now, I've seen the 'Majestic,' for instance, ducked from her bows
to her funnel, and I've helped the 'Arizona,' I think she was, to
back off an iceberg she met with one dark night; and I had to run
out of the 'Paris's' engine room one day because there was thirty
foot of water in it.

Of course, I don't deny--" The steam shut off suddenly as a tugboat,
loaded with a political club and a brass band that had been to see
a senator off to Europe, crossed the bows, going to Hoboken.

There was a long silence, that reached without a break from the
cut-water to the propeller blades of the "Dimbula."

Then one big voice said slowly and thickly, as though the owner had
just waked up: "It's my conviction that I have made a fool of
myself."

The steam knew what had happened at once; for when a ship finds
herself, all the talking of the separate pieces ceases and melts
into one deep voice, which is the soul of the ship.

"Who are you?" he said, with a laugh.

"I am the 'Dimbula,' of course. I've never been anything else except
that--and a fool."

The tugboat, which was doing its very best to be run down, got away just
in time, and its band was playing clashily and brassily a popular but
impolite air:

In the days of old Rameses--are you on?
In the days of old Rameses--are you on?

In the days of old Rameses, That story had paresis-- Are you on--are
you on--are you on?

"Well, I'm glad you've found yourself," said the steam. "To tell the
truth, I was a little tired of talking to all those ribs of stringers.

Here's quarantine. After that we'll go to our wharf and clean up a little,
and next month we'll do it all over again."

A CENTURY OF PAINTING.

NOTES DESCRIPTIVE AND CRITICAL.

--GOYA AND HIS CAREER.

--FOUR ENGLISH PAINTERS OF FAMILIAR LIFE.--GÉRICAULT, INGRES, AND
DELACROIX.

BY WILL H. LOW.

Looking backward to the first quarter of this century, it is hardly
too sweeping an assertion to say that, with a single exception,
there was little that was important in the way of painting outside
of France and England.

There were local reputations in all the other countries, practitioners
of the art who joined to a respectable proficiency in painting an
adhesion to the traditions which had been handed down to them.

These men, in their time and place, were notable; and in the museums of
their respective countries their works remain of chronological
interest to students of painting.

But to the larger public which these papers address, they are of
little importance, having exercised but slight influence on
contemporaneous art.

The exception already noted was in Spain, and there only in the case of a
single painter. Francisco Goya y Lucientes, "Pintor Español," as he
delighted to call himself, would be, indeed has been, a fascinating
subject for picturesque biography. Charles Yriarte, the well-known
French art critic, has given the world a most interesting and complete
story of Goya's life, which, though it is only separated from our
own day by a span of seventy years, chronicles the exploits of one
who in the history of art must hark back to Benvenuto Cellini in the
sixteenth century to find his parallel.

Goya was born March 31, 1746, at Fuente de Todos, in the province
of Aragon.

The son of a small farmer, he was placed when very young in the local
Academy of Fine Arts at Saragossa, where he received instruction
from Bayen and Luzan, painters little known outside of Spain.

The swashbuckler instincts which were to govern him through life manifested
themselves here, where in a street brawl he laid low three of his
adversaries. He found it prudent to evade both justice and the vengeance
which followed swift and sure in those days in Spain, by flying
to Madrid.

Soon after his arrival in the capital, however, in continuation of
his old mode of life, he was picked up for dead in one of the low
quarters of the town.

Surviving the poignard, but again threatened with arrest, he joined a
_quadrilla_ of bull-fighters, in whose company he went from town to
town, giving exhibitions of his prowess in the national sport.

[Illustration: THE GARROTED MAN.

FROM AN ETCHING BY GOYA.

There is a tradition that this etching was made from nature, the model--some
malefactor executed by the strangling method employed in Spain--being
studied by Goya from his chamber window.]

With all this, painting must have been somewhat of an interlude;
but Goya had early shown signs of great talent, and before he left
Saragossa, his master, Josepha Bayen, had confidence enough in his
future to entrust the happiness of his daughter to his care by
permitting his marriage to her.

Goya's biographer notes that through all the various adventures of his
career he had the utmost care for the material comfort of this lady.

Her character must impress us to-day as charitable to excess; for,
shortly after the bull-fighting episode, Goya found himself in Rome,
where his next exploit was the abduction, from a convent, of a noble
Roman girl.

With the police once more on his track, he sought refuge at the
Spanish Embassy, whence he was despatched home in disguise, probably
to the relief of his country's representative in Rome.

Before this adventure, which was only one of many which the charitable
wife had to pardon, he had attracted the attention of David, who
was then in Italy, and who, as his art differed in every way from that
of Goya, must have been strongly impressed by his work to give it his
approval.

[Illustration: DEATH ON THE BATTLE-FIELD. FROM AN ETCHING BY GOYA.

One of the plates from the "Disasters of War" where the grotesque and huge
figure of Death appears to the combatants.]
On arriving home Goya was given employment in designing a series
of tapestries for the royal palace; and from 1780, when he was made
a member of the Spanish Royal Academy, ensues the period of his
greatest artistic activity.

Carrying into his art the same excess of temperament which marked
his life, his execution was rapid and decisive.

Rebellious to the ordinary means employed by painters, he used
various mediums, some of which have ill withstood the ravages of
time; and, disdaining brushes, he often employed sponges or bits
of rag in their place.

In the case of one of his pictures, a revolt of the Madrilenians against
the French, it is said that he employed a spoon.

In 1799 Goya was made painter to the king, Charles III., whose successor,
the fourth of his name, continued his favor. The time, which was that
of the notorious "Prince of Peace," Godoy, was favorable for a character
like that of Goya, whose eccentricities were looked upon with an
indulgent eye by a court which must have felt that its function was
hardly that of moral censor. At least Goya, the intimate of Maria Louisa
and the court circle, by no means abandoned his friends the bull-fighters
and tavern-keepers.

Fresh from an altar-piece for a cathedral, or a royal portrait, his
ready brush found employment in rapidly painting a street scene,
or even a sign for a wine-shop.

A whitewashed wall for canvas and mud from the gutter for pigment,
were the means employed to embody a patriotic theme at the entrance
of the French soldiers into Madrid--a popular masterpiece executed
to the plaudits of the crowd.

All this would seem to denote a charlatan; yet withal, Goya has fairly
won his place amid the great painters of the world. Perhaps no
better example could be found of the essential difference between the
outward and visible actions of a man and the inward and spiritual
grace of an artist than in this instance; and the Latin standpoint,
always more intellectually liberal than our own Anglo-Saxon
appreciation of the same problem furnishes the reason why Goya was
left free to pursue his artistic career instead of languishing in
prison.

His illogical brush filled the cathedrals of Saragossa, Seville, Toledo,
and Valencia with masterly frescoes, while with the etching needle he
produced many plates.

Some of these, like the "Caprices," a series of eighty etchings,
are filled with imagination alternately tragical and grotesque;
while another series, representing bull-fights, throughout its
thirty-three plates depicts the incidents of the game with intense
realism.

The "Disasters of War," another series of eighty, were inspired by the
French invasion; and never, perhaps, were the cruelties of war
more strenuously realized in art than in these.

Probably these etchings, executed, like all his works, by methods peculiar
to himself, constitute his best title to remembrance.

But his painting, replete though it be with the defects of his qualities,
stands as a precursor of the great coloristic school of which
Delacroix was the head and front.

This is notably to be felt in his portraits, and in some of the
rapidly executed single figures of which the Louvre has a specimen
and the Metropolitan Museum, New York, another--the latter, "A
Jewess of Tangiers."

[Illustration: GOYA. FROM A PORTRAIT ETCHED BY HIMSELF.

This portrait is the frontispiece to a series of etchings by Goya.]
Before leaving Goya for men whose works are their only history, a
characteristic incident, which caused his flight from Spain to Bordeaux
in France, must be told. In 1814 Wellington was in Madrid and sat for
his portrait to Goya. After the first sitting, the soldier presumed
to criticise the work; whereat Goya, seizing a cutlass, attacked him,
causing the future hero of Waterloo to flee for his life from the maniacal
fury of the painter. It is said that, later, peace was made between the
two men, and that the portrait was achieved; but for the moment Goya found
safety in France, together with his long-suffering wife, who had incidentally
borne him twenty children.
At the green old age of eighty-two Goya died at Bordeaux, April 16,
1828.

[Illustration: ST. JUSTINA AND ST. RUFINA.

FROM A PAINTING BY GOYA IN THE CATHEDRAL AT SEVILLE.

These are the patron saints of Seville. The legend has it that they were
the daughters of a potter and followed their father's trade, giving away
in charity, however, all that they earned more than was sufficient
to supply their simple wants.

At the time of a festival to Venus, they were requested to supply the
vessels to be used in her worship, and on their refusing, they were
dragged before the prefect, who condemned them to death, July 19, A.D.
304. They are generally represented with earthen vessels and the palms
of martyrdom; in this case, the broken statue of Venus lies in the
foreground. The Giralda tower, the chief ornament of Seville,
and the prototype of the Madison Square tower in New York City, is their
especial care, and it is believed that its preservation from
lightning is due to them.]

No greater contrast could be devised than the four works which follow,
either in the character of the art or in the uneventful respectability
of the painters' lives.

They are all typical of a class of pictures which has been popular in
England, from the time of Hogarth to the present day.

The earliest of them is the "Blind Fiddler" of Sir David Wilkie, which
was exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1807.

The dates at which the others, by Mulready, Webster, and Leslie,
were painted would preclude their appearance here, if strict
chronological sequence were imposed, as they were painted about 1840.

It is instructive, however, to group them together, to show that
these artists and their followers, who were legion, thought at least
as much of subject as of method.

Not that the latter quality is lacking.

On the contrary, it is only too evident; but it is a method of convention.
No one would imagine for a moment, in looking at any one of these pictures,
that he was admitted an unseen spectator to some scene of intimate family
life.

The
distended nostrils of horses, the gliding of their muscles under the
glossy skin, the muffled thud of their hoofs in the loose soil, the
grimacing of the men as they used spur and thong, the fierce straining
of straps and chains, the creaking, the grinding, and finally the
swaying of the 90-millimetre gun, coddled and polished, as it swung
helplessly forward, stern first, and its long nose describing an arc in
the air behind--these things marvellously quickened the blood.

"Good men!" said Captain Resmith, enthusiastic. "It's great, isn't it?
You know, there's nothing so fine as a battery--nothing in the whole
world."

George heartily agreed with him.

"This is the best Battery in the Division," said Resmith religiously.

And George was religiously convinced that it was.

He was astoundingly happy. He thought, amazed, that he had never been so
happy, or at any rate so uplifted, in all his life. He simply could not
comprehend his state of bliss, which had begun that morning at 6.30 when
the grey-headed, simple-minded servant allotted to him had wakened him,
according to instructions, with a mug of tea. Perhaps it was the far,
thin sound of bugles that produced the rapturous effect, or the fresh
air blowing in through the broken pane of the hut, or the slanting
sunlight, or the feeling that he had no responsibility and nothing to do
but blindly obey orders.

He had gone to sleep as depressed as he was tired. A sense of futility
had got the better of him. The excursion of the afternoon had certainly
been ridiculous in a high degree. He had hoped for a more useful
evening. Captain Resmith had indeed taken him to the horse-lines, and he
had tried a mount which was very suitable, and Captain Resmith had said
that he possessed a naturally good seat and hands, and had given him a
few sagacious tips. It was plain to him that Resmith had the Major's
orders to take him in tutelage and make an officer of him. But the
satisfactoriness of the evening had suddenly ceased. Scarcely had
Resmith begun to expound the orders, and George to read the thrilling
words, 'Second Lieutenant G.E. Cannon to ride with Captain Resmith,'
when the mess had impulsively decided to celebrate the last night in
camp by a dinner at the hotel near the station, and George, fit for
nothing more important, had been detailed to run off and arrange for the
rich repast. The bulk of the mess was late to arrive, and George spent
the time in writing a descriptive and falsely gay letter on slips of
yellow Army paper to Lois. The dinner, with its facile laughter and
equally facile cynicism, had bored him; for he had joined the Army in
order to save an Empire and a world from being enslaved. He had lain
down in his truckle-bed and listened to the last echoing sounds in the
too-resonant corridor of the hutments, and thought of the wisdom of Sir
Isaac Davids, and of the peril to his wife, and of the peril to the
earth, and of his own irremediable bondage to the military machine. He,
with all his consciousness of power, had been put to school again;
deprived of the right to answer back, to argue, even to think. If one
set in authority said that black was white, his most sacred duty was to
concur and believe. And there was no escape....

And then, no sooner had he gone to sleep than it was bright day, and the
faint, clear call of bugles had pierced the clouds of his depression and
they had vanished! Every moment of the early morning had been exquisite.
Although he had not been across a horse for months, he rode comfortably,
and the animal was reliable. Resmith in fact had had to warn him against
fatiguing himself. But he knew that he was incapable of fatigue. The
day's trek was naught--fifteen miles or less--to Epsom Downs, at a
walk!... Lois? He had expected a letter from 'Nunks' or his mother, but
there was no letter, and no news was good news, at any rate with 'Nunks'
in charge of communications. Lois could not fail to be all right. He
recalled the wise generalization of 'Nunks' on that point ... Breakfast
was a paradisiacal meal. He had never 'fancied' a meal so much. And
Resmith had greatly enheartened him by saying sternly: "You've got
exactly the right tone with the men. Don't you go trying to alter it."
The general excitement was intense, and the solemn synchronizing of
watches increased it further. An orderly brought a newspaper, and nobody
would do more than disdainfully glance at it. The usual daily stuff
about the war!... Whereas Epsom Downs glittered in the imagination like
a Canaan. And it lay southward. Probably they were not going to France,
but probably they would have the honour of defending the coast against
invasion. George desired to master gunnery instantly, and Resmith
soothed him with the assurance that he would soon be sent away on a
gunnery course, which would give him beans. And in the meantime George
might whet his teeth on the detailed arrangements for feeding and
camping the Battery on Epsom Downs. This organization gave George pause,
especially when he remembered that the Battery was a very trifling item
in the Division, and when Resmith casually informed him that a Division
on the trek occupied fifteen miles of road. He began to perceive the
difference between the Army and a circus, and to figure the Staff as
something other than a club of haughty, aristocratic idlers in red hats.
And when the Battery was fairly under way in the side-road, with another
Battery in front and another Battery behind, and more Artillery Brigades
and uncounted Infantry Brigades and a screen of Yeomanry all invisibly
marching over the map in the direction of Epsom, and bound to reach a
certain lettered square on the map at a certain minute--when this
dynamic situation presented itself to the tentacles of his grasping
mind, he really did feel that there could be no game equal to war.

The Battery 'rode easy,' the men were smoking, talking, and singing in
snatches, when suddenly all sounds were silenced. Captain Resmith, who
had been summoned to the Major, reined in his horse, and George did
likewise, and the Battery passed by them on the left. The Major's voice
was heard:

"No. 2 Battery. Eyes--_right_!"

George asked:

"What's this?"

"C.R.A.'s ahead," murmured Resmith.

Then another officer cried:

"Right section. Eyes--_right_."

And then an N.C.O. bawled:

"A sub-section. Eyes--_right_."

Then only did George, from the rear, see the drivers, with a
simultaneous gesture, twist their heads very sharply to the right, raise
their whips, and fling the thongs over the withers of the hand-horses,
while the section-officer saluted.

Another N.C.O. bawled:

"B sub-section. Eyes--_right_."

And the same action followed.

Then another officer cried:

"Left section. Eyes--_right_."

So the rite proceeded.

Resmith and George had now gone back to their proper places. George
could see the drivers of the last gun gathering up the whip thongs into
their hands preparatory to the salute. C sub-section received the
command.

And then, not many yards ahead, the voice of an N.C.O.:

"D sub-section. Eyes--_right_."

Heads turned; whips were raised and flung outwards; horses swerved
slightly.

"Get ready," muttered Resmith to George.

The figure of the C.R.A., Brigadier-General Rannion, motionless on a
charger, came into view. George's heart was beating high. Resmith and he
saluted. The General gazed hard at him and never moved. They passed
ahead.

The officer commanding the Third Battery had already called:

"Battery. _Eyes--right."_

The marvellous ceremonial slipped rearwards. George was aware of tears
in his eyes. He was aware of the sentiment of worship. He felt that he
would have done anything, accomplished any deed, died, at the bidding of
the motionless figure on the charger. It was most curious.

There was a terrific crash of wood far behind. Resmith chuckled.

"One of those G.S. wagons has knocked down the Automobile Club
'Cross-Roads' sign," he said. "Good thing it wasn't a lamp-post! You
see, with their eyes right, they can't look where they're going, and the
whip touches up the horses, and before you can say knife they're into
something. Jolly glad it's only the Am. Col. Jones will hear of this."
He chuckled again. Jones was the Captain commanding the Ammunition
Column.

The order ran down the line:

"Eyes--_front_."

Soon afterwards they came to some policemen, and two girls in very gay
frocks with bicycles, and the cross-roads. The Battery swung into the
great high road whose sign-post said, 'To Ewell and Epsom.' Another unit
had been halted to let the Artillery pass into its definitive place in
the vast trek. It was about this time that George began to notice the
dust. Rain had fallen before dawn and made the roads perfect; but now
either all the moisture had evaporated in the blazing sun, or the
Battery had reached a zone where rain had not fallen. At first the dust
rose only in a shallow sea to the height of fetlocks; but gradually it
ascended and made clouds, and deposited a layer on the face and on the
tongue and in the throat. And the surface itself of the road,
exasperated by innumerable hoofs and wheels, seemed to be in a kind of
crawling fermentation. The smell of humanity and horses was strong. The
men were less inclined to sing.

"Left!" yelled a voice.

And another:

"_Left_!"

And still another, very close on the second one:

"LEFT!"

"Keep your distances there!" Resmith shouted violently.

A horn sounded, and the next moment a motor-car, apparently full of
red-hats, rushed past the Battery, overtaking it, in a blinding storm of
dust. It was gone, like a ghost.

"That's the Almighty himself," Resmith explained, with unconscious awe
and devotion in his powerful voice. "Gramstone, Major-General."

George, profoundly impressed (he knew not why), noticed in his brain a
tiny embryo of a thought that it might be agreeable to ride in a car.

A hand went up, and the Battery stopped. It was the first halt.

"Look at your watch," said Resmith, smiling.

"Ten to, exactly."

"That's right. We have ten minutes in each hour."

All dismounted, examined horses for galls, and looked at their shoes,
took pulls at water-bottles, lit cigarettes, expectorated, coughed,
flicked at flies with handkerchiefs. The party also went past, and
shortly afterwards returned with the stretcher laden.


VI


It was after the long halt at midday that the weather changed. The
horses, martyrized by insects, had been elaborately watered and fed with
immense labour; officers and men had eaten rations and dust from their
haversacks, and for the most part emptied their water-bottles; and the
march had been resumed in a temper captious and somewhat exacerbated.

"Get your horse away; he's kicking mine!" said Captain Resmith
impatiently to George, reflecting the general mood. And George, who was
beginning to experience fatigue in the region of the knees, visited on
his horse the resentment he felt at Resmith's tone.

At precisely that moment some drops of rain fell. Nobody could believe
at first that the drops were raindrops for the whole landscape was
quivering in hot sunshine. However, an examination of the firmament
showed a cloud perpendicularly overhead; the drops multiplied; the cloud
slowly obscured the sun. An almost audible sigh of relief passed down
the line. Everybody was freshened and elated. Some men with an instinct
for the apposite started to sing:

"Shall we gather at the river?"

And nearly the whole Battery joined in the tune. The rain persevered,
thickening. The sun accepted defeat. The sky lost all its blue. Orders
were given as to clothing. George had the sensation that something was
lacking to him, and found that it was an umbrella. On the outskirts of
Ewell the Battery was splashing through puddles of water; the coats of
horses and of men had darkened; guns, poles, and caps carried chaplets
of raindrops; and all those stern riders, so proud and scornful, with
chins hidden in high, upturned collars, and long garments disposed
majestically over their legs and the flanks of the horses, nevertheless
knew in secret that the conquering rain had got down the backs of their
necks, and into their boots and into their very knees but they were
still nobly maintaining the illusion of impermeability against it. The
Battery, riding now stiffly 'eyes front,' was halted unexpectedly in
Ewell, filling the whole of the village, to the village's extreme
content. Many minutes elapsed. Rumour floated down that something, was
wrong in front. Captain Resmith had much inspectorial cantering to do,
and George faithfully followed him for some time. At one end of the
village a woman was selling fruit and ginger-beer to the soldiers at
siege prices; at the other, men and women out of the little gardened
houses were eagerly distributing hot tea and hot coffee free of charge.
The two girls from the crossroads entered the village, pushing their
bicycles, one of which had apparently lost a pedal. They wore
mackintoshes, and were still laughing.

At length George said:

"If you don't mind I'll stick where I am for a bit."

"Tired, eh?" Resmith asked callously.

"Well! I shall be if I keep on."

"Dismount, my canny boy. Didn't I tell you what would happen to you? At
your age--"

"Why! How old d'you think I am?"

"Well, my canny boy, you'll never see thirty again, I suppose."

"No, I shan't. Nor you either."

Captain Resmith said:

"I'm twenty-four."

George was thunder-struck. The fellow was a boy, and George had been
treating him as an equal! But then the fellow was also George's superior
officer, and immeasurably his superior in physique. Do what he would,
harden himself as he might, George at thirty-three could never hope to
rival the sinews of the boy of twenty-four, who incidentally could
instruct him on every conceivable military subject. George, standing by
his sodden horse, felt humiliated and annoyed as Resmith cantered off to
speak to the officer commanding the Ammunition Column. But on the trek
there was no outlet for such a sentiment as annoyance. He was Resmith's
junior and Resmith's inferior, and must behave, and expect to be behaved
to, as such.

"Never mind!" he said to himself. His determination to learn the art and
craft of war was almost savage in ferocity.

When the Battery at length departed from Ewell the rain had completed
its victory but at the same time had lost much of its prestige. The
riders, abandoning illusion, admitting frankly that they were wet to the
skin, knowing that all their clothing was soaked, and satisfied that
they could not be wetter than they were if the bottom fell out of the
sky, simply derided the rain and plodded forward. Groups of them even
disdained the weather in lusty song. But not George. George was
exhausted. He was ready to fall off his horse. The sensation of fatigue
about the knees and in the small of his back was absolute torture.
Resmith told him to ride without stirrups and dangle his legs. The
relief was real, but only temporary. And the Battery moved on at the
horribly monotonous, tiring walk. Epsom was incredibly distant. George
gave up hope of Epsom; and he was right to do so, for Epsom never came.
The Battery had taken a secondary road to the left which climbed slowly
to the Downs. At the top of this road, under the railway bridge, just
before fields ceased to be enclosed, stood the two girls. Their bicycles
leaned against the brick wall. They had taken off their mackintoshes,
and it was plain from their clinging coloured garments that they too
were utterly drenched. They laughed no more. Over the open Downs the
wind was sweeping the rain in front of it; and the wind was the night
wind, for the sky had begun to darken into dusk. The Battery debouched
into a main road which seemed full of promise, but left it again within
a couple of hundred yards, and was once more on the menacing, high,
naked Downs, with a wide and desolate view of unfeatured plains to the
north. The bugles sounded sharply in the wet air, and the Battery, now
apparently alone in the world, came to a halt. George dropped off his
horse. A multiplicity of orders followed. Amorphous confusion was
produced out of a straight line. This was the bivouacking ground. And
there was nothing--nothing but the track by which they had arrived, and
the Downs, and a distant blur to the west in the shape of the Epsom
Grand Stand, and the heavy, ceaseless rain, and the threat of the
fast-descending night. According to the theory of the Divisional Staff a
dump furnished by the Army Service Corps ought to have existed at a spot
corresponding to the final letter in the words 'Burgh Heath' on the map,
but the information quickly became general that no such dump did in
practice exist. To George the situation was merely incredible. He knew
that for himself there was only one reasonable course of conduct. He
ought to have a boiling bath, go to bed with his dressing-gown over his
pyjamas, and take a full basin of hot bread-and-milk adulterated by the
addition of brandy--and sleep. Horses and men surged perilously around
him. The anarchical disorder, however, must have been less acute than he
imagined, for a soldier appeared and took away his horse; he let the
reins slip from his dazed hand. The track had been transformed into a
morass of viscous mud.


VII


It was night. For he may not be a maystre but yf he be seure and
expert in the craft of phisike that he sle not moo than he cureth and
maketh hoole/ And therfore sayth Auycenne in an Enphormye/ yf thou curest
the seke man. And knowest not the cause/ wherof the maladye ought to
be cured/ Hit ought to be sayd that thou hast cured hym by fortune and
happe more than by ony comynge. And in alle thyse maner of peple/ Ther
ought to be meurte of good maners/ Curtoysie of wordes/ Chastite of the
body promysse of helthe/ And as to them that ben seke contynuell
visitacion of them/ And they ought to enquere the cause of theyr sekenessis
and the sygnes and tokens of theyr maladyes/ As is rehercid in the
bookes of the au[ct]ours by ryght grete diligence/ And specially
in the bookes of ypocras galyene and of Auycene And whan many maysters
and phisicyens ben assemblid to fore the pacyent or seke man/ They ought
not there to argue and dispute one agaynst an other/ But they ought
to make good and symple colacion to geder.

In suche wyse as they be not seen in theyr desputynge one agaynst an
other/ for to encroche and gete more glorye of the world to them self/
than to trete the salute and helthe of the pacyent and seke man/ I
meruayll why that whan they fee and knowe that whan the seke man hath
grete nede of helthe wherfore than they make gretter obiection of
contraryousnes for as moche as the lyf of man is demened and put amonge
them but hit is be cause that he is reputed most sage and wise that
argueth and bryngeth in moste subtyltes/
And alle this maner is amonge doctours of lawe that treteth no thynge
of mannes lyf. But of temporelle thynges/ that he is holden most wyse
and best lerned/ that by his counceyll can beste acorde the
contencions and discencions of men And therfore ought the phisicyens
and cyrurgyens leue whan they be to fore the seke men all discencions
and contrariousnes of wordes/ in suche wyse that hit appere that
they studye more for to cure the seke men than for to despute And
therfore is the phisicien duly sette to fore the quene/ So that it
is figured that he ought to haue in hymself chastite and contynence
of body For hit apperteyneth somtyme vnto the phisicien to visite
and cure Quenes duchesses and countesses and alle other ladyes and
see and beholde some secrete sekenessis that falle and come otherwhile
in the secretis of nature And therfore hit apperteyneth to them
that they be chaste and followe honeste and chastite/ and that they
be ensample to other of good contynence/ For valerian reherceth
that ypocras was of meruayllous contynence of his body/ For whan
he was in the scoles of Athenes/ he had by hym a ryght fayr woman
whyche was comyn And the yonge scolers and the Ioly felaws that
were students promisyd to the woman a besa[=u]t/ yf she myght or
coude torne the corage of ypocras for to haue to doon wyth her/ And
she cam to hym by nyght and dyde so moche by her craft that she
laye wyth hym in his bedd/ but she coude neuer do so moche y't she
myghte corrumpe his chaste liuynge ne defoule the crowne of his
conscience/ and whan the yonge men knewe that she had ben with hym
all the night And coude not chaunge his contynence/ they began to
mocque her/ And to axe and demande of her the besant that they had
gyuen to her.

And she answerd That hit was holden & gaged vpon an ymage/ For as
moche as she might not change his contynence she callyd hym an ymage/
And in semblable wyse reherceth Valerian of Scenocrates philosopher
that ther laye with hym a woman all night And tempted hym disordinatly/
but that ryght chafte man/ made neuer femblant to her/ Ner he neuer
remeuyd from his ferme purpoos/ In fuche wyfe as fhe departid from
hym alle confufid and fhamed/ Cornelius fcipion that was fent by the
romayns for to gouerne fpayne/ as fone as he entryd in to the caftellis
& in to the townes of that lande He began to take away all the
thynges that miht ftyre or meue his men to lecherye wherfore men fayd
that he drof & chaced oute of the ofte moo than two thoufand bourdellys/
And he that was wyfe knewe well that delyte of lecherye corrupted and
apayred the corages of tho men that ben abandonned to that fame delyte/
And herof hit is fayd in the fables of the poetes in the first book
of the Truphes of the Philofophers by figure.
Look here--"
Colonel Hullocher stopped in full career of invective, remembering
military etiquette. "Major, I suggest you send Mr. Cannon with some men
to find the convoy." The Major having eagerly concurred, the Colonel
went on: "Take a few men and search every road and track between here
and Kingswood Station--systematically. Kingswood's the rail-head, and
somewhere between here and there that convoy is bound to be.
Systematically, mind! It's not a technical job. All that's wanted is
common sense and thoroughness."

The Colonel's gaze was ruthlessly challenging. George met it stiffly. He
knew that the roads, if not the tracks, had already been searched. He
knew that he was being victimized by a chance impulse of the Colonel's.
But he ignored all that. He was coldly angry and resentful. Utterly
forgetting his fatigue, he inimically surveyed the Colonel's squat,
shining figure in the cavalry coat, a pyramid of which the apex was a
round head surmounted by a dripping cap.

"Yes, sir," he snapped.

By rights the tyrant ought to have rolled off his horse dead. But
Colonel Hullocher was not thus vulnerable. He could give glance for
glance with perhaps any human being on earth, and indeed thought little
more of subalterns than of rabbits.

He finished, after a pause:

"You will be good enough, Major, to let this officer report to me
personally when he has found the convoy."

"Certainly, sir."

The horse bounded away, scattering the group.

Rather less than half an hour later George had five men (including his
own servant and Resmith's) and six lanterns round a cask, on the top of
which was his map. There were six possible variations of route to
Kingswood Station, and he explained them all, allotting one to each man
and keeping one for himself. He could detect the men exchanging looks,
but what the looks signified he could not tell. He gave instructions
that everybody should go forward until either discovering the convoy or
reaching Kingswood. He said with a positive air of conviction that by
this means the convoy could not fail to be discovered. The men received
the statement with strict agnosticism; they could not see things with
the eye of faith, fortified though they were with tea and tinned meats.
An offered reward of ten shillings to the man who should hit on the
convoy did not appreciably inspirit them. George himself was of course
not a bit convinced by his own argument, and had not the slightest
expectation that the convoy would be found. The map, which the breeze
lifted and upon which the rain drummed, seemed to be entirely
unconnected with the actual facts of the earth's surface. The party
mounted tired, unwilling horses and filed off. Some soldiers in the
darkness, watching the string of lanterns, gave a half-ironical
'Hurrah.' One by one, as the tracks bifurcated, George dispatched his
men, with renewed insistent advice, and at last he and his horse were
alone on the Downs.

His clothes were exceedingly heavy with all the moisture they had
imbibed. Repose had mitigated his fatigue, but every slow, slouching
step of the horse intensified it again--and at a tremendous rate. Still,
he did not care, having mastered the great truth that he would either
tall off the horse in exhaustion or arrive at Kingswood--and which of
the alternatives happened did not appear to him to matter seriously. The
whole affair was fantastic; it was unreal, in addition to being silly.
But, real or unreal, he would finish it. If he was a phantom and
Kingswood a mirage, the phantom would reach the mirage or sink senseless
into astral mud. He had Colonel Hullocher in mind, and, quite
illogically, he envisaged the Colonel as a reality. Having promised, the
doctor apprised him as the last moments drew near.

"Sho! I want to know! Why, I feel full as well as I did yes'dy and a
leetle grain easier, if anythin'."
"I hope this notice does not find you unprepared," observed the
doctor.

"Wall, no; I'm prepared as much as I can be, as you may say. I've been a
member in good and regular standin' this fifty-five year--and I
hain't arrived at my age without seeing there's somethin' in life
beside livin'."He thought of
ghosts and haunted moors. Then he noticed a penumbra round about the
form of what might be a small hillock to the left of the track. He
quitted the track, and cautiously edged his horse forward, having
commendably obscured the lantern beneath his overcoat. The farther side
of the hillock had been tunnelled to a depth of perhaps three feet; a
lantern suspended somehow in the roof showed the spade which had done
the work; it also showed, within the cavity, the two girls who had
accompanied the Brigade from Wimbledon, together with two soldiers. The
soldiers were rankers, but one of the girls talked with perfect
correctness in a very refined voice; the other was silently eating. Both
were obviously tired to the limit of endurance, and very dirty and
draggled. The gay colours of their smart frocks had, however, survived
the hardships of the day. George was absolutely amazed by the spectacle.
The vagaries of autocratic Colonels were nothing when compared to this
extravagance of human nature, this glimpse of the subterranean life of
regiments, this triumphant and forlorn love-folly in the midst of the
inclement, pitiless night. And he was touched, too. The glimmer of the
lantern on the green and yellow of the short skirts half disclosed under
the mackintoshes was at once pathetic and exciting. The girl who had
been eating gave a terrible scream; she had caught sight of the figure
on horseback. The horse shied violently and stood still. George
persuaded him back into the track and rode on, guessing that already he
had become a genuine phantom for the self-absorbed group awakened out of
its ecstasy by the mysterious vision of a nightrider.

Half a mile farther on he saw the red end of a cigarette swimming on the
sea of darkness; his lantern had expired, and he had not yet tried to
relight it.

"Hi there!" he cried. "Who are you?"

The cigarette approached him, in a wavy movement, and a man's figure was
vaguely discerned.

"A.S.C. convoy, sir."

Serious accidents have been known to occur from a neglect of this
important preliminary to loading; as a melancholy instance, a poor
fellow may be seen about the Woolwich barracks, _both_ of whose
arms were blown off above the elbow joint, whilst ramming home a
cartridge before the sponge had been properly applied.

[Illustration: LOADING.]
[Illustration: FIRING IN RETREAT.]

If it is deemed essential to keep up a fire upon the enemy during
a temporary retreat, or in order to avoid an overwhelming body of
cavalry directed against guns unsupported by infantry, in that case
the limber remains as close as possible to the field-piece, as shown
in the Engraving above.

Skilful provisions are made against the various contingencies likely
to occur in action.

A wheel may he shattered by the enemy's shot, and the gun thereby
disabled for the moment: this accident is met by supporting the
piece upon a handspike, firmly grasped by one or two men on each
side, according to the weight of the gun, whilst a spare wheel,
usually suspended at the back of "the tumbril," or ammunition waggon,
is obtained, and in a few moments made to remedy the loss, as
represented above.

[Illustration: DISABLED WHEEL.]

[Illustration: DISMANTLING A GUN.]

The extraordinary rapidity with which a gun can be dislodged from
its carriage, and every portion of its complicated machinery scattered
upon the ground, is hardly to be believed unless witnessed; but the
wonder is increased tenfold, on seeing with what magical celerity
the death-dealing weapon can be put together again.

These operations will be readily understood by an examination of
the Illustrations.

In that at the foot of page 175 the cannon is lying useless upon
the earth; one wheel already forms the rude resting-place of a
gunner, whilst the other is in the act of being displaced.

By the application of a rope round the termination of the breech,
and the lifting of the trail of the carriage, care being previously
taken that the trunnions are in their respective sockets, a very
slight exertion of manual labour is required to put the gun into
fighting trim.

Colonel Hullocher might have offered George some food to accompany the
whisky, but he did not. He had already done a marvel; a miracle was not
to be expected. He looked at George and George looked at him.

"No doubt you're right. Good night."

"Good night, sir." George saluted and marched off.


VIII


He prepared to turn in. The process was the simplest in the world. He
had only to wrap a pair of blankets round his soaked clothes, and,
holding them in place with one hand, creep under the shelter. On laying
down one of his plays, the reader is inclined to apply to him Tacitus'
judgment of Agricola, "bonum virum facile crederes, magnum libenter."
Now, when we open _Dick of Devonshire_, the naturalness and simplicity
of the first scene at once suggest Heywood's hand.
Faint fires here and there in the distance showed how
the troops were spread over the Downs. Heaven and earth were equally
mysterious and inscrutable. He inserted himself cautiously into the
aperture of the shelter, where Resmith already lay asleep, and, having
pushed back his cap, arranged his right arm for a pillow. He is also
the reputed author of some sermons, and of the life of St. Gereon, published
by the Bollandists, and of other works still inedited. He is sometimes
confounded with another French monk of the same name, who lived in the
eleventh century, and was an inmate of the monastery at Persigne in
Maine. This second Helinand was the author of commentaries or glosses
on the Apocalypse and Exodus.[27] The first-named has been credited
with the authorship of "Gesta Romanorum." The grounds for this are
very slight.The
demeanour of the mess when he got back to the camp clearly indicated
that he had acquired prestige. He was the man who had organized an
exhaustive search for the convoy and had found the convoy in the pitchy
blackness. He was the man who had saved the unit from an undeserved
shame. The mess had greeted him with warm food. Perhaps he had been
lucky--the hazard of a lighted cigarette in the darkness! Yes, but luck
was in everything. The credit was his, and men duly gave it to him, and
he took it. Heywood was fond of stirring adventures: he is quite at home
on the sea, and delights in nothing more than in describing a sea-fight;
witness his _Fortunes by Land and Sea_, and the two parts of the
_Fair Maid of the West_. But the underplot bears even clearer traces
of Heywood's manner. Manuel is one of those characters he loved
to draw--a perfect Christian gentleman, incapable of baseness in
word or deed. Few situations could be found more touching than the
scene (iii. 3), where Manuel defends with passionate earnestness the
honour of his absent brother, Henrico, and tries to comfort his
heart-broken father.

Heywood dealt in extremes: his characters are, as a rule, either faultless
gentlemen or abandoned scoundrels.

He ardently desired to pursue it further. He ardently desired sleep and
renewal so that he might rise afresh and pursue it further. What he had
done and been through was naught, less than naught. To worry about
physical discomforts was babyish. Inviting vistas of knowledge,
technical attainment, experience, and endurance stretched before him,
illuminating the night. His mind dwelt on France, on Mons, on the idea
of terror and cataclysm. And it had room too for his wife and children.
He had had no news of them for over twenty-four hours; and he had broken
his resolve to write to Lois every day; he had been compelled to break
it. The latter was at his wit's end how to comport himself, for the
lovely Polixena's tears had quite drowned her few words of English,
and beyond guessing that the magnificoes meant him a mischief he
had no notion what they would be at.

"The Major has heard it."

"Rats! I lay you a fiver the Allies are in Berlin before Christmas."