Your Boys
By Gipsy Smith

With a Foreword
by The Bishop of London


New York
George H. Doran Company
1918


                             [_Cover Image_]

                               Cover Image


FOREWORD


I am writing this during an air raid at 12.30 at night, and I have just
finished a Foreword for the Bishop of Zanzibar's new and tender little
book. He has been a water-carrier for the British force in German East
Africa, and Gipsy Smith has just come from the trenches in France.

You would not expect the two books to be similar, but they are: they are
both about "Jesus." This devotion to "Jesus" binds all time Christians
together, and one day will bring us all more visibly together than we are
now. I love this breezy little book of Gipsy Smith's; it is not only full
of the love of "Jesus," but love of our "our boys." They _are_ splendid. I
spent the first two months of the war as their visiting chaplain--went out
to give them their Easter Communion the first year of the war at the
Front. Gipsy Smith and I made friends together, speaking for them at the
London Opera House on the great day of Intercession and Thanksgiving we
had for them when the King himself called us all together.

Then I like the common sense of it! You must have robust common sense if
you are going to win "our boys." Anything unreal, merely sentimental,
washy, they detect in a moment. You must draw them "with the cords of a
man and the bonds of love," and those who read this book will find many a
hint as to how to do it.

                                                              A.F. LONDON.


YOUR BOYS


I have just come back from your boys. I have been living among them and
talking to them for six months. I have been under shell fire for a month,
night and day. I have preached the Gospel within forty yards of the
Germans. I have tried to sleep at night in a cellar, and it was so cold
that my moustache froze to my blanket and my boots froze to the floor. The
meal which comforted me most was a little sour French bread and some Swiss
milk and hot water, and a pinch of sugar when I could get it.

There are Y.M.C.A. marquees close to the roads down which come the walking
wounded from the trenches. In three of these marquees last summer in three
days over ten thousand cases were provided with hot drinks and
refreshment--free. And that I call Christian work. You and I have been too
much concerned about the preaching and too little about the doing of
things.

A friend of mine was in one of those marquees at the time, and he told me
a beautiful story. Some of the men sat and stood there two and three hours
waiting their turn, and the workers were nearly run off their feet. They
were at it for three nights and three days. There was one fellow, a
handsome chap, sitting huddled up and looking so haggard and cold, that my
friend said to him,

"I am sorry you have had to wait so long, old chap. We're doing our best.
We'll get to you as soon as we can."

"Never mind me," said the man; "carry on!"

As the sun came out he unbuttoned his coat, and when the coat was thrown
back my friend saw that he was wearing a colonel's uniform.

"I am sorry, sir," said my friend. "I did not know. I oughtn't to have
spoken to you in that familiar way."

"You have earned the right to say anything you like to me," said the
Colonel. "Go right on."

And then my friend said, "Well, come with me, sir, to the back, and I will
get you a cup of coffee."

"No, not a minute before the boys. I'll take my turn with them."

That's the spirit. Your boys, I say, are great stuff. They have their
follies. They can go to the devil if they want to, but tens of thousands
of them don't want to, and hundreds of thousands are living straight in
spite of their surroundings. They are the bravest, dearest boys that God
ever gave to the world, and you and I ought to be proud of them. If the
people at home were a tenth as grateful as they ought to be they would
crowd into our churches, if it were for nothing else but to pray for and
give thanks for the boys.

They are just great, your boys. They saved your homes. I was recently in a
city in France which had before the war a population of 55,000 people.
When I was there, there were not 500 people in that city--54,500 were
homeless refugees, if they weren't killed. I walked about that city for a
month, searching for a house that wasn't damaged, a window that wasn't
broken, and I never found one. The whole of that city will have to be
rebuilt. A glorious cathedral, a magnificent pile of municipal buildings,
all in ruins; the Grande Place, a meeting-place for the crowned heads of
Europe, gone! "Thou hast made of a city a heap"--a heap of rubbish. _Your_
city would have been like that but for the boys in khaki.

I was saying my prayers in a corner of an old broken chateau, the Y.M.C.A.
headquarters for that centre, with my trench-coat buttoned tight and my
big muffler round my ears. Presently I heard some one say--one of the
workers--"A gentleman wants to see you, sir," and when I got downstairs
there was a General, a V.C., a D.S.O., and a Star of India man--a glorious
man, a beautiful character. He was there with his Staff-captain, and he
said,

"I've come to invite you to dinner to-morrow night, Mr. Smith. I want you
to come to the officers' mess."

"What time, sir?" I asked. "I cannot miss my meeting at half-past six with
the boys."

"Well, the mess will be at half-past seven. We will arrange that."

"Before you go, sir, I should like to ask why you are interested in me."

"Well, I'll tell you, if you wish," he said. "Men are writing home to
their wives, mothers, sweethearts, and they are talking about a new power
in their lives. 'We have got something that is helping us to go straight
and play the game,' they write. And so," said the General, "we should like
to have a chat with you."

I went the next night, and for an hour and a half I preached the Gospel to
those officers. But the young priest was both agile and angry. With
a flying leap he reached the heaving back. The mule acknowl- edged himself
conquered.

The body-guard trotted on their own feet, and the party disappeared round a
bend of the hills.

Rezanov laughed heartily and even the glum vis- age of Father Abella
relaxed.

"It is a common sight, Excellency," he said. "We are thankful to have a
younger friar for such fatiguing work.

Many a time have I belabored stubborn mules and bestrode bucking mustangs
while searching for one of these ungrateful but no doubt chosen creatures.
It is the will of God, and we make no complaint; but we are very
willing, Father Landaeta and I, that youth should cool its ardor in so
certain a fashion while we attend to the more reasonable duties at
home."

They were dismounted at the door of the church.
The horses were led off by waiting Indians.

The soldiers on guard saluted and stepped aside, and the party entered. Two
priests in handsome vest- ments stood before the altar, but the long
dim nave was empty.

The Russians had been told that a mass would be said in their honor, and
they marched down the church and bent their knees with as much
ceremony as had they been of the faith of their hosts. When the
short mass was over, Rezanov bethought himself of Concha's re-
quest, and whispering its purport to Father Abella was led to a
double iron hoop stuck with tallow dips in various stages of petition.
Rezanov lit a candle and fastened it in an empty socket."Oh! but let's put a word in for Jesus," urged this chap.

Then a bright-faced soldier lad called out, "Guv'nor, she puts Jesus in
the coffee." That is what I mean when I say you have got to put Jesus into
every bit of the day's work.

                                * * * * *

I have never once been asked by your boys to what Church I belonged. They
don't stop to ask that if they believe in you. They want the living Christ
and the living Message. It isn't creed; it's need. And don't you get the
notion that the boys can't be reached, and don't you think that the boys
are hostile to Christianity. They are not. I won't hear it without
protest. The best things that the old Book talks about are the things the
boys love in one another. They don't always think of the Book, but they
love the fruits of the Spirit in one another. They love truth, honour,
courage, humility, friendship, loyalty. And where do you get those things?
Why, they have their roots in the Cross--they grow on that Tree.

                                * * * * *

I had a dear friend who won the M.C.--a young Cambridge graduate. He was
all-round brilliant. He could write an essay, preach a sermon, sit down to
the piano and compose an operetta. The boys delighted in him. He would
always be at the front. He would always be where there was danger. I was
talking about him one day in one of the convalescent camps, and two of the
boys said to me afterwards,

"You have been talking about our padre. We loved him. We were with him
when he was killed, for the shell that killed him wounded us. Every man in
the battalion would have laid down his life for him."

This old world's dying for the want of love. There are more people die for
the want of a bit of it than with overmuch of it. Don't stifle it--let it
out.

                                * * * * *

"I am afraid," said a padre to me once, "the boys are sceptical."

"Come with me to-morrow," I answered. "I'll prove to you they are _not_
sceptical."

We were half an hour ahead of time and the hut was crowded with eight
hundred men. They were singing when I got in--something about "an old
rooster--as you used to."

Do you suppose I had no better sense than to go in and say, "Stop this
ungodly music?" You can catch more flies with treacle than with vinegar.

I looked at the boys and said, "That's great, sing it again."

And I turned to the padre and asked, "Isn't that splendid? Isn't that
fine?"

While we were waiting to begin the meeting, I said, "Boys, we must have
another."

"One of the same sort?" they shouted.

"Of course," was my reply. And they sang "Who's your lady friend?" and
when they had sung that, I called out, "Boys, we will have one more. What
shall it be?"

"One of yours, sir."

I had not trusted them in vain.

I said, "Very well, you choose your hymn."

"When I survey the wondrous Cross"--that was the song they chose.

And they sang it all the better because I had sung their songs with them.
Before we had got to the end of the last verse some of those boys were in
tears, and it wasn't hard to pray. It isn't far from rag-time to "When I
survey the wondrous Cross."

When they had finished the hymn I said, "Boys, I am going to tell you the
story of my father's conversion." For I had to convince my padre friend
that they were not sceptical. I took them to the gipsy tent and told them
of my father and five motherless children, and of how Jesus came to that
tent, saving the father and the five children and making preachers of them
all.

I said, "Did my father make a mistake when he brought Christ to those five
motherless children?" And the eight hundred boys shouted, "No, sir."

"Did he do the right thing?"

"Yes, sir."

"What ought you to do?"

"The same, sir."

"Do you want Jesus in your lives?" and every man of the eight hundred
jumped to his feet.

You say they are sceptical where Jesus is concerned. I'll tell you when
they are sceptical--when they see the caricature of Jesus in you and me.

                                * * * * *

I was, as I have said, under shell fire for a month in one place--night and
day for a month--and never allowed out without a gasbag round my neck. I
slept in a cellar there at night when I did sleep--only 700 yards from the
Germans--and, as I have said before, it _was_ cold.

When the thaw set in, I put a couple of bricks down and put a box-lid on
top, so that I could stand in a dry place. We had two picks and two
shovels in that cellar in case anything happened overnight. I have been up
against it. Whenever I talked to the boys there they sat with their
gas-bags round their necks, and one held mine while I talked. It was quite
a common thing to have something fall quite close to us while we were
singing.

Imagine singing "Cover my defenceless head," just as a piece of the roof
is falling in. Or--

" In death's dark vale I fear no ill With Thee, dear Lord, beside me-- "

then another crash! That makes things real. Every word was accompanied by
the roar of guns--the rattle of the machine gun and the crack of the rifle.
We never knew what it was to be quiet.

A shell once came and burst just the other side of the wall against which
I was standing and blew part of it over my head. I have suffered as your
boys have, and I have preached the Gospel to your boys in the front line.
I long for the privilege of doing it again.

                                * * * * *

If I had my way I'd take all the best preachers in Britain and I'd put
them down in France. And if the church and chapel goers grumbled, I'd say,
"You're overfed. You can do without a preacher for a little." And if they
were to ask, "How do you know?" I should reply, "Because it's hard work to
get you to one meal a week. You only come once on a Sunday and often not
that. That's how I know you are not enjoying your food."

I love talking to the Scottish boys--the kilties. Oh! they are great
boys--the kilties. When the French first saw them they didn't know what
they were, whether they were men or women.

"Don't you know what they are?" said a bright-faced English boy. "They are
what we call the Middlesex."

You can't beat a British boy, he's on the spot all the time--"the
Middlesex!" Some of you haven't seen the joke yet.

                                * * * * *

I once went to a hut just behind the line, within the sound of the guns.
Buildings all round us had been blown to pieces. The leader of this hut
was a clergyman of the Church of England, but he wasn't an ecclesiastic
there, he was a man amongst men, and we loved him.

"Gipsy Smith," he said, "I don't know what you will do; the boys in the
billets this week are the Munsters--Irish Roman Catholics. You would have
got on all right last week; we had the York and Lancasters."

"Do you think they will come to the meetings?"

"I don't know," he replied; "they come for everything else! They come for
their smokes, candles, soap, buttons--bachelor's buttons--postcards, and
everything else they want. But whether they will come for the religious
part, I don't know."

"Well," I said, "we can but try."

It was about midday when we were talking, and the meeting was to be at
6.30.

"Have you got a boy who could write a bill for me?" I asked.

"Yes," he said, "I've got a boy who could do that all right."

"Print it on green paper," said I.

Why not? They were the Munsters. Why shouldn't we use our heads? People
think mighty hard in business, why shouldn't we think in the religious
world?

"Just say this and nothing more," I said.

"'_Gipsy Smith will give a talk in the Hut to-night at_ 6.30.
_Subject--Gipsy Life_.'"

I knew that would fetch them.

At half-past six the hut was crowded with eight hundred Munsters. If you
are an old angler, indeed if you know anything at all about angling, you
know that you have got to consider two or three things if you are to stand
any chance of a catch. You have got to study your tackle, you have got to
study your bait, you have got to study the habits of your fish. When the
time came to begin that meeting, one of the workers said,

"Shall I bring the box of hymn-books out?"

"No, no," I replied; "that's the wrong bait."

Those Munster boys knew nothing about hymn-books. We preachers have got to
come off our pedestals and not give our hearers what we want, but the
thing that will catch them. If a pretty, catchy Sankey hymn will attract a
crowd, why shouldn't we use it instead of an anthem? If a brass band will
catch them, why shouldn't we play it instead of an organ?

"Keep back those hymn-books," I said. "They know nothing about
hymn-books." I had a pretty good idea of what would have happened if those
hymn-books had been produced at the start.

I got on that platform, and I looked at those eight hundred Munsters and
said, "Boys, are we down-hearted?"

"_No_," they shouted.

You can imagine what eight hundred Munsters shouting "No" sounds like.
They were all attention instantly. I wonder what would happen if the Vicar
went into church next Sunday morning and asked the question, "Are we
down-hearted?" I knew it would cause a sensation, but I'd rather have a
sensation than a stagnation.

Those boys sat up. I said, "We are going to talk about gipsy life." I
talked to them about the origin of my people. There's not a man living in
the world who knows the origin of my people. I can trace my people back to
India, but they didn't come from India. We are one of the oldest races in
the world, so old that nobody knows how old. I talked to them about the
origin of the gipsies, and I don't know it, but I knew more about it than
they did. I talked to them about our language, and I gave them specimens
of it, and there I was on sure ground. It is a beautiful language, full of
poetry and music. Then I talked about the way the gipsies get their
living--and other people's; and for thirty minutes those Munsters hardly
knew if they were on the chairs or on the floor--and I purposely made them
laugh. They had just come out of the hell of the trenches. They had that
haunted, weary, hungry look, and if only I could make them laugh and
forget the hell out of which they had just climbed it was religion, and I
wasn't wasting time.

When I had been talking for thirty minutes, I stopped, and said, "Boys,
there's a lot more to this story. Would you like some more?"

"Yes," they shouted.

"Come back to-morrow," I said.

I was fishing in unlikely waters, and if you leave off when fish are
hungry they will come back for more. For six nights I told those boys
gipsy stories. I took them out into the woods. We went out amongst the
rabbits. I told the boys the rabbits got very fond of me--so fond that they
used to go home with me! I took them through the clover-fields on a June
day and made them smell the perfume. I took them among the buttercups. I
told them it was the Finger of Love and the Smile of Infinite Wisdom that
put the spots upon the pansy and the deep blue in the violet. And then we
went out among the birds and we saw God taking songs from the lips of a
seraph and wrapping them round with feathers.

And the boys saw Jesus in every buttercup and every primrose, and every
little daisy, and in every dewdrop, and heard something of the song of the
angels in the notes of the nightingale and the skylark. Oh! Jesus was
there, and they felt Him, and they saw Him. I took them amongst the gipsy
tents, amongst the woodlands and dells of the old camping-grounds. They
walked with Him and they talked with Him. I didn't use the usual Church
language, but I used the language of God in Nature and the boys heard Him.

Towards the end of the week one of those Munster boys came and touched me
and said, "Your Riverence! Your Riverence!" he says. "You're a gentleman."

I _knew_ I had got that boy.

Now, if you are an old angler you know what happens if you begin to tug at
the line the first time you get a bite. When you hook a fish, if he
happens to be a Munster, you have got to keep your head and play him, let
him have the line, let him go, keep steady, no excitement, give him play.
I gave him a bit of line, that young Munster. I thanked him for his
compliment and then walked away--with my eyes over my shoulder, for if he
hadn't come after me I should have been after him.

Presently he pulled my tunic and said, "Won't you give me a minute, sir?"

"What's the trouble?" I said.

"Sir," he said, with a little catch in his voice that I can hear now,
"you've got something I haven't."

"How do you know?" I asked.

"It's like the singing of a little song, and it gets into my heart. I want
it. Won't you tell me how to get it? I want it."

"Sonny," I said, "it's for you. You can have it at the same price I paid
for it."

"Begorra," says he, "you will tell me to give up my religion, you will!"

I said, "If God has put anything in your life that helps you to be a
better and a nobler and a braver man, He doesn't want you to give it up."

"He doesn't?" he asked. "What am I to give up, then?"

And I replied, "Your sin."

The boy said again, "You're a gentleman."

If I had said one word about his religion or his creed, my line would have
snapped and I would have lost my fish.

That night, when all the boys had gone, we got into a corner and we knelt
down, and when he went he said, "I've got it, sir. I've got the little
song--_and it's singing_."

                                * * * * *

At one of my meetings the boys were four thousand strong and the
Commandant of the camp was to preside. As they say in the Army, he had got
the wind up. He did not know me. When he saw the crowd there he began to
wonder what was going to happen. He called one of the officers to him, and
said,

"I don't know what he's going to do. I hope he's not going to give us a
revival meeting or something of that sort. I hope he knows that one-third
of these fellows are Roman Catholics."

Well, of course I knew, and I was laying my plans accordingly. What right
have you or I when we have got a mixed crowd like that to try to cram our
preconceived programme down everybody's throat? The officer, who was one
of my friends, said to the Colonel, "I don't think you need trouble, sir.
He's all right, and knows his job."

When we were ready, I went to the Colonel, and said, "We are quite ready
to begin, sir."

The Colonel rose and announced, "Officers, non-commissioned officers, and
men, I now introduce to you Gipsy Smith, who will perform."

Now, the first thing I wanted to do was to disarm all prejudice in the
mind of both officers and men. So I said, "Are you ready, boys?"

"Yes, sir."

"Well, we'll have our opening hymn, 'Keep the home fires burning.'"

And didn't those boys sing that! Some of them were smoking, and I wasn't
going to tell them not to smoke. That would have put their backs up. They
were British boys and they knew what to do when the right moment came. And
so I said, "Boys, you sang that very well, but you were not _all_ singing.
Now, if we have another, will you all sing?" And they answered, "Yes." I
knew if they sang they couldn't smoke. So we had "Pack up your troubles,"
and this time every smoke was out and every boy was singing. "We'll have
another," said I, when they had finished; "we'll have--

"Way down in Tennessee
Just try to think of me
Right on my mother's knee.' "

I knew if I got them round their mothers' knees I should be all right.

"Now, boys," I said, "what am I to talk to you about?" I let them choose
their subject very often.

"Tell us the story of the gipsy tent," they called out.

And there I was at home, and it was all right, and for an hour I told them
the story of how grace came to that gipsy tent--the old romance of love.

"Now, boys, I'm through," I said when I had spoken for an hour--and they
gave me an encore. When I had finished my encore, the dear old Colonel got
up to thank the "performer"--and he couldn't do it; there was a lump in his
throat and big tears were rolling down his cheeks.

"Boys, I can't say what I want to, but," said he, "we have all got to be
better men."

The Gospel was preached in that hut in a different way from what we have
it preached at home, but we got it in, and the thing is to get it in.

                                * * * * *

I was talking behind the lines to some of your boys. Every boy in front of
me was going up to the trenches that night. There were five or six hundred
of them. They had got their equipment--they were going on parade as soon as
they left me. It wasn't easy to talk. All I said was accompanied by the
roar of the guns and the crack of rifles and the rattle of the machine
guns, and once in a while our faces were lit up by the flashes. It was a
weird sight. I looked at those boys. I couldn't preach to them in the
ordinary way. I knew and they knew that for many it was the last service
they would attend on earth. I said,

"Boys, you are going up to the trenches. Anything may happen there. I wish
I could go with you. God knows I do. I would if they would let me, and if
any of you fall I would like to hold your hand and say something to you
for mother, for wife, and for lover, and for little child. I'd like to be
a link between you and home just for _that_ moment--God's messenger for
you. They won't let me go, but there is Somebody Who will go with you. You
know Who that is."

You should have heard the boys all over that hut whisper, "Yes,
sir--Jesus."

"Well," I said, "I want every man that is anxious to take Jesus with him
into the trench to stand."

Instantly and quietly every man in that hut stood up. And we prayed as men
can pray only under those conditions. We sang together, "For ever with the
Lord." I shall never sing that hymn again without a lump in my throat. My
mind will always go back to those dear boys.

We shook hands and I watched them go, and then on my way to the little
cottage where I was billeted I heard feet coming behind me, and presently
felt a hand laid upon my shoulder. Two grand handsome fellows stood beside
me. One of them said,

"We didn't manage to get into the hut, but we stood at the window to your
right. We heard all you said. We want you to pray for us. We are going
into the trenches, too. We can't go until it is settled."

We prayed together, and then I shook hands with them and bade them
good-bye. They did not come back. Some of their comrades came--those two,
with others, were left behind. But they had settled it--_they had settled
it_.

                                * * * * *

Two or three days after that I was in a hospital when one was brought in
who was at that service. I thought he was unconscious, and I said to the
Sister beside me, "Sister, how battered and bruised his poor head is!"

He looked up and said, "Yes, it is battered and bruised; but it will be
all right, Gipsy, when I get the crown!"

One night I had got about fifty boys round me in a dug-out, with the walls
blown out and bits of the roof off. I had taken some hymn-sheets, for I
love to hear them sing. I never choose a hymn for them--I always let them
choose their own hymns. There is wisdom in that. If they have asked for
something and don't sing it, I can come down on them. Among the great
hymns they choose are these:

                        "Jesu, Lover of my soul,"

and I have heard them sing,

                       "Cover my defenceless head,"

with the shells falling close to them. I have heard them sing,

                           "I fear no foe ..."

with every seat and every bit of building round us rocking with the
concussion of things. And then they will choose:


     "The King of Love my Shepherd is,"
     "The Lord's my Shepherd, I'll not want,"
     "Abide with me,"
     "Rock of ages, cleft for me,"


and the one they love, I think, most of all is,

                   "When I survey the wondrous Cross."

Those are the hymns they sing, the great hymns of the Church--the hymns
that all Christian people sing, about which there is no quarrelling. It's
beautiful to hear the boys.

That night I said, "I have brought some hymn-sheets. I thought we might
have some singing, but I'm afraid it's too dark."

"Is it possible you doubt I will come back?" he demanded. "My faith?"

"No, not that.

But such happiness seems to me too great for this life."
He remembered how often he had been close to death; he knew that during
the greater part of the next two years he should see the glimmer
of the scythe oftener yet.

For a moment it seemed to him that he felt the dark waters rise in
his soul, heard the jeers of the gods at the vanity of mortal will.

But the blood ran strong and warm in his veins. He shook off the obsession,
and smiled a little cynically, even as he kissed her.

                                "This is the hour for romance, my dear.

In the years to come, when you are very prosaically my wife with a thousand
duties, and grumbling at my exactions, your consolation will be the
memory of some moment like this, when you were able to feel romantic and
sad. I wish I could arrange for some such set of memories for myself,
but I am unequal to your divine melancholy.

                                When I can- not see you I am cross and sulky; and just now--I am,
well--philosophically happy.

Some day I shall be happier, but this is well enough. And I can har-
bor no ugly presentiments. As I entered California I was elated with a
sense of coming happiness, of future victories; and I prefer to dwell upon
that, the more particularly as in a measure the prophetic hint has
been fulfilled.

So make the most of the present.

I shall see you daily during this last precious fortnight, for I am
determined this arrangement shall cease; and you must exorcise
coquetry and abet me whenever there is a chance of a word alone."

She nodded, but she noted with a sigh that he said no more of sudden flight.
She would never have consented to jeopardize the least of his inter- ests,
but she fain would have been besought.

The experience she had had of the vehemence and fire in Rezanov made
her long for his complete subjugation and the happiness it must bring
to her- self.

But as he smiled tenderly above her she saw that his practical
brain had silenced the irresponsible demands of love, and although she
did not with- draw from his arms she stiffened her head.

"I fancy I shall return home to-morrow," she said.


                                * * * * *

I was talking to one boy--an American; he was a little premature, he was in
the fight before his country.

"Sonny," I said, "you're an American?"

"Yes, sir. I was born in Michigan."

"Well, what are you doing, fighting under the British flag?"

"I guess it's my fight too, sir. This," he said, "is not a fight for
England, France, or Belgium, but a fight for the race, and I wouldn't have
been a man if I had kept out."

I told that story to one of our Generals who died last September.

"Ah!" he said, "that boy got to the bottom of the business. It's for the
race. It's for the race."

"Are you a Christian?" I asked.

"No," he answered; "but I should like to be one. I wasn't brought up. I
grew up, and I grew up my own way, and my own way was the wrong way. I go
to church occasionally--if a friend is getting married. I know the story of
the Christian faith a little, but it has never really meant anything to
me."

Then he continued slowly, "On the Somme, a few hours before I was badly
wounded"--he put his hand in his pocket and drew out a little crucifix--"I
picked up that little crucifix and I put it in my pack, and when I got to
hospital I found that little crucifix on my table. One of the nurses or
the orderlies had put it there, thinking I was a Catholic. But I know I'm
not, sir. I am _nothing_. I have been looking at this little crucifix so
often since I was wounded, and I look at it till my eyes fill with tears,
because it reminds me of what He did for me--not this little bit of metal,
but what it means."

I said, "Have you ever prayed?"

He replied, "No, sir. I've wept over this little crucifix--is that prayer?"

"That's prayer of the best sort," I said. "Every tear contained volumes
you could not utter, and God read every word. He knows all about it."

I pulled out a little khaki Testament. "Would you like it?" I said. "Would
you read it?"

He answered, "Yes," and signed the decision in the cover.

When I shook hands with him there was a light in his eyes. Have you ever
seen the light break over the cliff-tops of some high mountain peak? Have
you ever watched the sun kiss a landscape into beauty? Have you ever seen
the earth dance with gladness as the sun bathed it with radiance and
warmth? Oh, it's a great sight; but there's no sight like seeing the light
from Calvary kiss a human face as it fills the heart with the assurance of
Divine forgiveness.

                                * * * * *

One hundred and fifty-two thousand cups of tea and coffee are given away
monthly at one railway-station. I once happened to be at a railway-station
on the main lines of communication. There are women working there, women
of position and means, working at their own expense. I have seen rough
fellows go up to a British woman behind a counter--the first time they have
seen a British woman for months--and I have heard them say, "Madam, will
you shake hands with me?" I saw an Australian do that. He got her hand--and
his was like a leg of mutton--and he thought of his mother and his
home-folk. He forgot his tea. It was a benediction to have that woman
there.

Well, on this occasion two of these ladies said to me, "Gipsy, we're
having a relief train pass through to-morrow, and one comes through up and
one comes through down."

"I'll be there," I said.

The train that was coming from the front we could hear before we could see
it. And it wasn't the engine that we heard, because that came so slowly,
but I could hear the boys singing as they came round the curve,

                 "Blighty, Blighty is the place for me."

We served them with tea and coffee, French bread a yard long, and candles
and matches and "Woodbines," and then we got that crowd off--still singing
"Blighty."

They had been gone about five minutes when the other train _from_ Blighty
came in. We couldn't hear them singing. They were quiet and subdued. We
served them with coffee and tea, candles, bootlaces, and smokes, and then,
as they had some time, they started having a wash--the first since they
left Blighty. The footboard of the train was the washstand, the
shaving-table, and the dressing-table. But they didn't sing.

I saw in a corner of that little canteen a pile of postcards, and I said,
"Who says a postcard for wife or mother?"

Somebody asked, "Who's going to see them posted?"

I said, "I am. You leave them to me."

They said, "All right," and I began to give out the postcards.

I started at one end of the train and went on to the other end. In the
middle I found two carriages full of officers.

"Gentlemen," I said, "will you please censor these postcards as I collect
them, and that will relieve the pressure on the local staff, for I don't
want to put any extra work on them?"

"Oh, certainly," they answered, and I sent a dozen or twenty up at a time
to them, and in fifteen minutes that train was steaming out of the station
and the boys were singing, "Should auld acquaintance."

When they had gone I collected the postcards that had been written and
censored--and there were 575. To keep the boys in touch with home is
religion; to keep in their lives the finest, the most beautiful
home-sentiment that God ever gives to the world is a bit of religion--pure
and undefiled.

                                * * * * *

How gloriously brave are the French women and Belgian women! I was talking
to one in London--a young girl not more than eighteen or nineteen. She was
serving me in a restaurant, and I saw she was wiping her eyes, so I called
her to me and said, "What's the matter, my child?"

She answered, "Sir, I came over on the boat from Belgium early in the war,
and my mother and sisters got scattered, and I have never seen or heard of
them since."

And the Madame of the restaurant came to me a little while afterwards, and
said, "We dare not tell her, but they were all killed."

Many people at home don't realise what is going on. Some are in mourning,
some have lost boys, some have lost husbands, brothers, but we have not
suffered as others have suffered. I was riding in a French train a few
weeks ago. Beside me sat a lady draped in mourning. I could not see her
face, it was so thickly veiled with crape. Beside her was a nurse, and the
lady wept, oh, so bitterly! I cannot bear to see anybody weeping. If I see
a little child crying in the street I want to comfort it. If I see a woman
crying in the street I want to comfort her. God has given me a quick ear
where grief is concerned--and I am thankful. I wouldn't have it
otherwise--though I have to pay for it.

That woman's tears went through me. Every little while she was counting in
French, "_Un, deux, trois, quatre, cinq,_"--then she would weep again and
then she would count.

I said to the nurse, "Nurse, what's the trouble?" and she said, "Sir, her
mind has given way. Before the war she had five handsome sons, and one by
one they have been killed, and now she spends her time counting over her
boys and weeping."

And all that is for you and for me! What sort of people ought we to be, do
you suppose? Are we really worth--_that_?

                                * * * * *

I was talking to some Canadians one night--and the Canadians are fine boys.
I was putting my foot on the platform, just about to begin, when a bright
young Canadian touched me and said, "Say, boss, can _you_ shoot quick?"
and I replied,

"Yes, and straight."

"Well," he said, "you'll do."

I had a great time with those fellows. Hundreds of those Canadian boys
stood up to say, "God helping me, I am going to lead a better
life!"--hundreds of them. And then I put another test to them. "I want you
all to promise," I said, "that you'll kneel down and say your prayers
to-night in the billet, and those of you who will promise to do that come
up and shake hands with me as you go out." I was kept one half-hour
shaking hands.

Now, there were nine fellows sleeping in one billet and not one knew the
other eight had been to the meeting. They all got mixed up, but all the
nine came up to shake hands, and the one that got back to billets first
told the story afterwards. This one had made up his mind he would kneel
down and say his prayers, but when he returned he found there was no one
there. Somehow he felt different then--he felt he couldn't do it. He was
more afraid of nobody than he would have been of somebody. Then just
suppose the others came back and found him kneeling there!

"I funked it," he said. "I got under the blanket, and tried to say my
prayers under the blanket, but it wouldn't work. Then I heard one man come
into the room, then two, three, four, five, six, seven, and eight. And the
eighth man was the champion swearer of the company."

"Boys," said this man, "did you hear him?"

"Yes," they said, "we heard him."

And the little chap under the blanket said "Yes" too.

"Well, I shook hands with that man, and I promised him for my mother's
sake that I'd kneel down and say my prayers to-night."

And the little chap under the blanket jumped up, blanket and all, and
said, "So did I. I'm with you."

And the others said, "So did we."

"Well," the last comer said, "the best thing we can do is to kneel down
now and say a little prayer."

So they all knelt down, and they each said a little prayer--I wish I had a
record of those prayers--and they finished up with "Our Father."

Then the champion swearer said, "Boys, I've cut it all out: no more
drink--not another drop."

And they said, "All right, we are with you. We'll cut it out."

Then he said, "I've cut something else out. No more swearing."

Eighty-five times out of every hundred that the boys in France use a
swear-word they mean no more than I do when I say, "Great Scott."

"Do you, boys?" I ask them.

"No, sir," they invariably reply.

"Well, then, why do you use these swear-words?"

And then I've got them and, out of their own mouths, they are condemned. I
tell them it is bad form, and I say, "Cut it out."

These boys made a solemn compact that night that the first man who swore
should clean all nine guns, and before the week was out my champion was
cleaning nine guns.

But those eight boys didn't go back on him. They were sporty.

I have seen a little bird's nest all broken with the wind and torn with
the storm, and two or three little eggs, with a few wet leaves over them,
addled and cold and forsaken, and my little gipsy heart cried over those
poor little motherless things, for I was motherless too. And up in a tree
I have heard a thrush singing the song of a seraph and I have said, as I
looked at the eggs, "You would have been singers too, but you were
forsaken."

These boys--they did not forsake their chum. They said, "Buck up, old boy.
We'll help you."

"No," he said. "This is my job."

So they stood by him and cheered him on. People, I say again, don't die of
overmuch love, but for the want of a bit of it. These boys stood by my
champion swearer, and when he was putting the polishing touches on the
last gun he stood up, his face radiant, like a man that has fought a
battle and won: "Boys, this is the last gun I shall clean for anybody
under these conditions, because, God helping me, I'm going to see this
thing through."

And he _is_ seeing it through.

                                * * * * *

I was at a home for limbless men the other day--there are over one hundred
and eighty of them in that home. I held my hand out to shake hands with
the first two men I met, and they laughed at me. I looked down for their
hands--they hadn't got one between them! I took the face of one of those
dear boys and I patted it. I wanted to kiss it with gratitude. I wonder
how you feel!

I walked round amongst those boys--one hundred and eighty limbless! I found
one boy without legs and without an arm. He was just a trunk, and his
comrades, those who could, were carrying him around. He was the sunshine
in the whole place--not a grouse. They are doing no grousing--your boys
there. When they see you they just say, "Cheerio."

A friend of mine, a minister, went to see one of these boys, and he was
wondering what he could say to him; he thought he had got to cheer him up.
The boy looked at the padre and said,

"Guv'nor, don't get down-hearted. I am going to make money out of this
job. Why, I shall only want a pair of trousers with one leg, and I shall
only want a coat with one sleeve, and I shall only want a pair of boots
with one boot."

It reminds me of the question I once asked: "Sonny, what struck you most
when you got in the trenches?" and the reply came sharp,

"A bit of shrapnel."

Another of your boys, just picked up in the trenches by those tender
fellows, the stretcher-bearers, those men with the hands of a woman and
with the heart of a mother--God bless them!--called out as they came to him,
"_Home, John_." And when he was passing the officer and they were carrying
him into the Red Cross train, he cried, "_Season_." He had two gold
stripes already. That's the spirit of your boys.

                                * * * * *

There was a dear old Scotchman from Aberdeen. A telegram had come to that
granite city to say that his boy was badly wounded, and he ran all the way
to the station and jumped into a train without stopping to put on a
collar. You don't think of collars when your boys are dying. I saw him
when he landed. It was my job to help him. The dear old fellow was just in
time to see his boy die--and afterwards he came and laid his head on my
shoulder and he sobbed. And I wept too. He was seventy.

Presently he said, "It will be hard to go home and tell mother that her
only boy has gone, but I've got a message for her. 'Father,' my boy said,
'tell mother I am not afraid to die. I have found Jesus. Tell mother
that.'"

There are some people who think you are not doing Christian work unless
you have a hymn-book in one hand and a Bible in the other and are singing,
"Come to Jesus." I am glad I haven't to live with that kind of people. I
call them the Lord's Awkward Squad.

If you take "firstly," "secondly," "thirdly," out to the front with you,
by the time you get to thirdly the boys will be in the trenches. I never
take an old sermon out with me to France. I write my prescription after
I've seen my patients.

I was talking to a thousand boys one day. "Boys," I said, "how many of you
have written to your mother this week?"

Now, that's a proper question. I wonder what would happen if the preacher
stopped in his sermon next Sunday morning and said, "Have you paid your
debts this week?" "In what sort of a temper did you come down to breakfast
this morning?"

If a man's religion does not get into every detail of his life he may
profess to be a saint, but he's a fraud. Religion ought to permeate life
and make it beautiful--as lovely as a breath of perfume from the garden of
the Lord.

The boys have given me the privilege of talking straight to them. "If you
don't write, you know what you'll get," I said, and I began to give out
the note-paper. I can give boys writing-paper and envelopes and sell them
a cup of coffee or a packet of cigarettes with as much religion as I can
stand in a pulpit and talk about them. Why, my Master washed people's feet
and cooked a breakfast for hungry fishermen. He kindled the fire with the
hands that were nailed to a tree for humanity. There are no secular things
if you are in the spirit of the Master--they are all Divine.

I went on dealing the note-paper out, and presently a clergyman came to me
and said, "Gipsy Smith, a man in my room wants to see you."

When I got there, I saw he was crying, sobbing.

"I am not a kid," he said; "I am a man. I'm forty-one. You told me to
write to my mother. Read that," he said, throwing down a letter; and this
is what I read:

"MY DEAR MOTHER,
"It's seven years since I wrote you last. I've done my best to break your
heart and to turn your hair grey. I've lived a bad life, but it's come to
an end. I have given my heart to God. I won't ask you to believe me, or to
forgive me. I deserve neither. But I ask for a bit of time that I may
prove my sincerity.

                                                         "Your boy still,
                                                                   "JACK."

"Shall I put a bit at the bottom for a postscript?" I asked. "But first of
all, let us pray."

We got on our knees, and I said, "You begin."

"I'm not used to it," he replied.

"Begin; never mind how. Did you ever pray?"

"Yes," he said; "I prayed as a child."

"Start with that, then--He loves cradle faith."

It took him some time, but presently he began with his mother's prayer,
"Jesus, tender Shepherd, hear me." When he got to the third line there was
a big lump in his throat and one in mine, and then he gave me a dig with
his elbow and said, "You'll have to finish"--and I finished.

I put my postscript to that letter. "God has saved him," I wrote. "Believe
him. Write and tell him you forgive him."

And when that mother got that she knew that giving out note-paper was
religion.

                                * * * * *

I was in a cemetery just behind the lines, walking among the graves of our
dear lads who have fallen, and weeping for those at home who weep over
graves that they will never see. There I found an old soldier who had been
to the woods and had cut a big bundle of box trimmings. He was setting a
little border of box round the graves.

"But," I said to him, "they won't strike. It's not the right time of
year--and the ground's too dry."

"I know, sir," he said, "but it will look as if somebody cares."

God's jewels lie deep, and if you will dig deep enough you will find
them--so I took the trouble to dig a little deeper. I said, "Nobody will
see them here."

"Yes, sir, the angels will. You taught me to think like this in one of the
meetings in the huts, and since I can't do any more in the fight"--for he
was disabled--"I am putting in my time caring for the boys' graves, and if
the wives and mothers don't see them--well"--and his face lit up with a
radiance that I can't put into words--"the angels will, sir."

                                * * * * *

I have had your boys say to me, "Gipsy, does it mean Blighty, or does it
mean West?" I have had to say to some of them, "It doesn't mean Blighty."

A sister took me to see one dear fellow. He was blown up by a mine, both
his legs and his arm were broken.

"I was lying out there, after the mine blew up, for twenty-four hours, and
I was half buried," he told me.

Fancy lying out there in No Man's Land for twenty-four hours with both
legs broken and an arm!

I said, "Sonny, you have had a rough time."

And this was his reply: "They copped me, worse luck, before I had a pot at
them."

You can't beat these boys of yours, the nation's boys, the best boys of
our homes, the flower of our manhood, the noblest and the dearest that God
ever gave to a people. These boys, they are worth everything in the world,
and there is _nothing_ you and I can do will ever repay them for what they
are doing for you and for me.

                                * * * * *

When the great end of the day comes, the greatest joy of all will be the
joy of knowing you have tried to make somebody else's life happy. It is
the flowers that you have made grow in unlikely places that will tell--not
how much money you have made, not how big a house you have lived in, not
how popular you were in the world of letters, of science, of finance,
but--how many burdens have you lifted? How many dark hearts have you
lightened? You can't do too much for your boys. Remember what they are
doing for you. Remember the lives that are being laid down for you.

I shook hands with a boy a little while ago in Scarborough, and he said,
"I believe I hold the record for having lost most in the war. I have lost
five brothers, my sister was killed in the war, and my mother died of a
broken heart through grief, but," he said, "I'll give my next week's pay,
sir, towards this new hut."

Another boy, when I was making my appeal, said, "I've been wounded and I
am discharged. I'll give my next week's pay," and up jumped a war-widow
and she said, "I'll give my next week's pension."

I was talking in Doncaster, and I had a batch of wounded men from one of
the local hospitals--a batch of twenty dressed in blue--and every one of
them gave something; and when I looked round and said, "Boys, why are you
giving?" one said, "Well, sir, we're grateful for what it did for us when
we were there."

People say, "What are you going to do with the huts after the war?" We
want to pick them up, and bring them back to this country and put one down
in every parish in the land, so that when the boys do come back they will
still have the Y.M.C.A. hut to go into, so that they can still keep up the
spirit of unity.

Woe be to the man who goes into the hut and tries to preach sectarianism.
The Y.M.C.A. is creating a spirit of unity amongst the boys, and that is
going on all the time. I want the limitations to vanish at home. I want
the ecclesiastical barriers to go. When you get to Heaven the Lord will
have to give Gabriel a job to introduce many Christians to one another.
You should see your boys, how they mix up. They come in--the Roman
Catholics, the Church of England, and the Nonconformists and Plymouth
Brethren and Salvation Army, and all sorts--you don't know who's who. We
are not quarrelling over religions at the front--we are fighting and dying
for the folks who are doing that at home.

Let's stop our religious nonsense. Father Abella shook his head
vigorously, but he spoke with great kindness. "That, Excellency, alas,
is the one point upon which we are forced to dis- appoint you. Indeed,
our own submission to your wishes is contingent. This marriage cannot
take place without a dispensation from Rome and the consent of the King."

Rezanov looked at Don Jose.

                                "You, too?"

he asked curtly.

The Commandante stirred uneasily, heaved a deep sigh; he thought of the
long impatience of his Con- cha. "It is true," he said. "Not only would it
be impossible for my conscience to resign itself to the marriage
of my daughter with a heretic--par- don, Excellency--without the
blessing of the Pope; not only would no priest in California perform
the ceremony until it arrived, but it would mean the degradation
of Governor Arrillaga and myself, and the ruin of all your other
hopes.

We should be ordered summarily to Mexico, perhaps worse, and no Russian
would ever be permitted to set foot in the Californias again. I would it
were otherwise.
I know--I know--but it is inevitable. Your excel- lency must see it. Even
were you a Catholic, Gov- ernor Arrillaga and the President of the Missions,
at least, would not dare to countenance this mar- riage without the
consent of the King."
Rezanov was silent for a few minutes. In spite of the emotions of the
past few days he was aston- ished at the depth and keenness of his
disappoint- ment.

But never yet had he failed to realize when he was beaten, nor to
trim his sails without loss of precious time.

I had watched him grow up. I knew his home, and as he
leaned against me he said, "Gipsy, I'm homesick; I want my mother," and
then, with a sob, he said, "Tell me more about Jesus."

I was able to talk to him about his mother because I had lost mine, and
just because I love Jesus I was able to talk to him about the blessed
Jesus Who comes into a man's heart when he is sad, lonely, and homesick,
and helps him.

He was lying on a stretcher, and it was my privilege to hold his hand and
to kiss him for his mother.

"Gipsy," he said, "does it mean West?"

I said, "Sonny, it means West."

As I held his hand it flickered for a moment and he said, "I am not afraid
to go. I know Christ. I found Him in your meetings, and--it's great to die,
for freedom."

And it was a great thing for me to be with your boy then.

                                * * * * *

_I thank my God upon every remembrance of your boys._




                                 THE END