
If it is really our old JACK, congratulate him, and give him my love.
I don't know his present address. But, whatever you do, write. A letter
from you is like water in the desert."
[Illustration]
When I read that letter I became full of the noblest resolutions. Not
another day should pass, I vowed, before I answered it. So I prepared
a great many sheets of thin note-paper, carefully selected a clean
nib and sat down at my writing-table to begin. As I did so my eyes
fell upon _Martin Chuzzlewit_, which was lying within easy reach. The
book seemed positively to command me to read it for the tenth time. I
took it up, and in another moment _Mrs. Gamp_ had taken possession
of me. My writing-chair was uncomfortable. I transferred myself into an
arm-chair. Is it necessary to add that I did not write to TOM? His letter
is getting frayed and soiled from being constantly in my pocket. Day
after day it accompanies me on my daily round, unanswered and seemingly
unanswerable. For I feel it to be a duty to write, and my mind abhors
a duty.

The letter weighs upon my conscience like lead.
A few strokes of the pen would remove the burden, but I simply cannot
screw myself up to the task. That is one of the things I ought
to do.

Again, ought I not to call on the WHITTLESEAS? Mr. and Mrs. WHITTLESEA have
simply overflowed with kindness towards me. I never enjoyed anything
more than the week I spent at their house in Kent a short time ago.
They are now in town, and, what is more, they know that I am in town
too. Of course I ought to call. It's my plain duty, and that is, as
far as I can tell, the only reason which absolutely prevents me from
calling upon that hospitable family. Why need I go through the long
list of my pressing duties? I ought to write my article on "Modern
Theosophy: A Psychological Parallel," for the next number of _The Brain_.
I ought to visit my dentist; I ought to have my hair cut. But I shall
do none of these things. On the other hand, it is absolutely
unnecessary that I should write to you.

    No evil would befall me if I waited another year, or even omitted
altogether to write to you.

    And that is the precise reason why I am now addressing you.

    As a matter of fact, I like you.

    As I have already said, the performance of strict duties is
    irksome to me.

    It is you, my dear LAZINESS, who forbid me to perform them, and
thus save me from many an uncongenial task.

    That is why I like you.

    
    And, after all, the common abuse of you is absurd. I have heard
    grave and industrious persons declare emphatically that any one
who allows himself to fall under your sway debars himself utterly
from every chance of success.

    Fiddlesticks! I snap my fingers at such folly.
    What do these gentlemen say to the case of FIGTREE, the great Q.C.?

    Everybody knows that FIGTREE is, without exception, the most indolent
man in the world. Let any doubter walk down Middle Temple Lane and
ask the first young barrister he meets what he thinks of FIGTREE."The condition of mankind is in a state of melioration, as far as
    misery arises from ignorance, for as the world grows older it must
    grow wiser, if wisdom arises from experience."

    9. "All moral virtue is only a modification of benevolence."

    10. "Virtue gives a better chance for happiness than vice."

    11. "No instance of any revival."

    12. "Atheists are not to think themselves quite secure with respect
    to a future life."

    13. "Thought might as well depend upon the construction of the
    brain, as upon any invisible substance extraneous to the brain."

    14. "If the works of God had a beginning, there must have been a
    time when he was inactive."

    15. "Where happiness is wanting in the creation I would rather
    conclude the author had mist of his design than that he wanted
    benevolence."


    FALSE ASSERTIONS.

    1. "A cause needs not be prior to an effect."

    2. "If the species of man had no beginning, it would not follow that
    it had no cause."

    3. "A cause may be cotemporary with the effect."

    4. "An atheist must believe he was introduced into the world without
    design."


    ABSURDITIES.

    1. "A general mass of sensation consisting of various elements
    borrowed from the past and the future."

    2. "Since sensation is made up of past, present, and future, the
    infant feeling for the moment only, the man recollecting what is
    past and anticipating the future, and as the present sensation must
    therefore in time bear a less proportion to the general mass of
    sensation than it did, so at last all temporary affections, whether
    of pain or pleasure become wholly inconsiderable."

    3. "The great book of nature and the book of revelation both lie
    open before us."

    4. "A conclusion above our comprehension."

    5. "A whole eternity already past."

    6. "Since a finite Being cannot be infinitely happy, because he must
    then be infinite in knowledge and power; and as all limitation of
    happiness must consist in degree of happiness or mixture of misery,
    the Deity can alone determine which mode of limitation is best."

    7. "We have reason to be thankful for our pains and distress."

    8. "If the divine Being had made man at first as happy as he can be
    after all the feelings and ideas of a painful and laborious life, it
    must have been in violation of all general laws and by a constant
    and momentary interference of the Deity."

    9. "It is better the divine agency should not be very conspicuous."

    10. "If good prevails on the whole, creation being infinite,
    happiness must be infinite, and God comprehending the whole, will
    only perceive the balance of good, and that will be happiness
    unmixed with misery."

    11. "If a man is happy in the whole he is infinitely happy in the
    whole of his existence."

    12. "Although all things fall alike to all men and no distinction is
    made between the righteous and the wicked, and even though the
    wicked derive an advantage from their vices, yet this is consistent
    with a state of moral government by a Being of infinite wisdom and
    power."

    13. "As ploughing is the means of having a harvest, though God has
    predetermined whether there should be a harvest or not, so prayer is
    the means of obtaining good from God, although that good is
    predetermined upon; it is therefore no more absurd to pray than to
    plough."

    14. "Oh, God of Heaven!" cried the Queen, "all that dear family
    may ere now have been murdered! Perhaps they are already numbered
    among the dead!

    Oh, my poor, dear, beloved Marie! Oh, I shall go frantic! I must
    send for General Acton."

    Wringing her hands, she pulled the bell, and in a few minutes the
    general came. On his entering the apartment, she flew to him
    like one deprived of reason.
    

    "There!" exclaimed she. "There! Behold the fatal consequences!"
showing him the letter."The power, which a man has by the comprehensiveness of his mind
    to enjoy the future, has no apparent limits."

    18. "It is of no avail in the argument concerning the existence of a
    Deity, that we have no conception of him, since it does not imply
    impossibility of his existence that we have no idea at all upon the
    subject."


    INADMISSIBLE OR INCONCLUSIVE.

    1. But the King, who had seen and heard more distinctly from his
apartment, flew to that of the Queen.

    That the horrid object might not escape observation, the
    monsters had mounted upon each other's shoulders so as to lift the
bleeding head quite up to the prison bars.

    
    "An atheist believes himself to be, at his death, for ever
    excluded from returning life."

    5. "There are more atheists than unbelievers in revelation."

