Very good-humouredly the naturalist left Mr. Haye and came to
them, and presently was deep in quartz and silica, and onyx
and chalcedony, and all manner of stones that are precious. He
told all that Elizabeth wanted to know, and much more than she
had dreamed of knowing. Even Rose listened; and Rufus was
eagerly attentive; and Elizabeth after she had asked questions
as far as her knowledge allowed her to push them, sighed and
wished she knew everything.

"Then you would be more wise than anybody, Miss Elisabet' --
you would be too wise. The man who knows the most, knows that
he knows little."

"Is that your opinion of yourself, Mr. Herder?" said Rufus.

"Certainly. I do know very little; -- I will know more, I
hope."

"O Mr. Herder, you know enough," said Rose. "I shouldn't think
you would want to study any more."

"If I was to say, I know enough, -- that would be to say that I
do not know nozing at all."

"Mr. Winthrop, you don't seem as interested as the rest of
us," said Elizabeth, perhaps with a little curiosity; for he
had stood quietly by, letting even Mr. Satterthwaite push
himself in between.

"O he," said the naturalist, -- "he knows it all before."

"Then why didn't you tell me!" said Elizabeth.

"I wasn't asked," said Winthrop smiling.

"Wint'rop comes to my room the nights," Mr. Herder went on, --
"and he knows pretty well all what is in it, by this time.
When he is tired himself wiz work at his books and his
writings, he comes and gets rested wiz my stones and my
preparations. If you will come there, Miss Elisabet', I will
shew you crystals of quartz, and onyx, and all the kinds of
chalcedony, and ozer things."

"And I too, Mr. Herder?" said Rose.

"Wiz pleasure, Miss Rose, -- if you like."

"Mr. Herder," said the young lady, "don't you love everything
very much?"

"I love you very much, Miss Rose," said the naturalist,
turning his good-humoured handsome face full upon her, -- "I do
not know about everyzing."

"No, but I mean all animals and insects, and everything that
lives?"

"I do not love everyzing that lives," said the naturalist
smiling. "I do not love Mr. Heinfelt."

"Who is Mr. Heinfelt?" said Rose.

"He is a man what I do not love."

"No, but Mr. Herder, I mean, don't you love other things very
much -- animals, and such things? You have so much to do with
them."

"No -- I have no love to spare for animals," he said with a
grave face.

"Don't you love birds and animals, that you are always after
and busy with?"

"No," said the naturalist, -- "I do not love them -- I love what
is _back_ of all that -- not the animals. I keep my love for
men."

"Do you think you have any more in that direction, for keeping
it from the others?" said Elizabeth.

"I do not understand --"

"Do you think you love men any better because you don't give
animals any love at all?"

"I do love some animals," said Mr. Herder. "I had a horse
once, when I lived in Germany, that I did love. I loved him so
well, that when a man did insult my horse, I made him fight
me."

Rose exclaimed; Elizabeth smiled significantly; and Winthrop
remarked,

"So that's the way your love for men shews itself!"

"No," said the naturalist, -- "no, -- I never did ask a man to
meet me more than that one time. And I did not hurt him much.
I only want to punish him a little."

"Why, Mr. Herder!" Rose repeated. "I didn't think you would do
such a thing."

"Everybody fight in Germany," said the naturalist; "they all
fight at the Universités -- they _must_ fight. I found the only
way was to make myself so good swordsman that I should be
safe."

"And have you fought many duels?" said Elizabeth.

"Yes -- I have fought -- I have been obliged by circumstances to
fight a good many. -- I have seen two hundred."

"Two hundred duels, Mr. Herder!"

"Yes. -- I have seen four men killed."

"Were _you_ ever hurt, Mr. Herder?" said Rose.

"No -- I never was wounded. I saw how it was -- that the only
thing to do was to excel ozers; so as in ozer things, I did in
this."

"But how came you, who love men so well, to have so much to do
with hurting them, Mr. Herder?"

"You cannot help it, Miss Elisabet'," said the naturalist.
At Hagley, halfway up the hillside, Miller saw a semi-octagonal
temple dedicated to the genius of Thomson. It stood in a grassy
hollow which commanded a vast, open prospect and was a favorite
resting place of the poet of "The Seasons." In a shady,
secluded ravine he found a white pedestal, topped by an urn
which Lyttelton had inscribed to the memory of Shenstone. This
contrast of situation seemed to the tourist emblematic.
Shenstone, he says, was an egotist, and his recess, true to his
character, excludes the distant landscape. Gray, who pronounced
"The Schoolmistress" a masterpiece in its kind, made a
rather slighting mention of its author.[45] "I have read an
8vo volume of Shenstone's letters; poor man! He was always
wishing for money, for fame and other distinctions; and his
whole philosophy consisted in living, against his will, in
retirement and in a place which his taste had adorned, but
which he only enjoyed when people of note came to see and
commend it." Gray unquestionably profited by a reading of
Shenstone's "Elegies," which antedate his own "Elegy Written in
a Country Churchyard" (1751). He adopted Shenstone's stanza, which
Shenstone had borrowed from the love elegies of a now forgotten
poet, James Hammond, equerry to Prince Frederick and a friend
of Cobham, Lyttelton, and Chesterfield. "Why Hammond or other
writers," says Johnson, "have thought the quatrain of ten
syllables elegiac, it is difficult to tell.

The character of the elegy is gentleness and tenuity, but this
stanza has been pronounced by Dryden. . .to be the most magnificent
of all the measures which our language affords

."[46]
Next after "The Schoolmistress," the most engaging of Shenstone's
poems is his "Pastoral Ballad," written in 1743 in four parts
and in a tripping anapestic measure. Familiar to most readers
is the stanza beginning:

"I have found out a gift for my fair, I have found where the
wood-pigeons breed."

Dr. Johnson acknowledged the prettiness of the conceit:

"So sweetly she bade me adieu, I thought that she bade me return;"

and he used to quote and commend the well-known lines "Written at
an Inn at Henley:
"Whoe'er has travell'd life's dull round, Where'er his stages may
have been, May sigh to think he still has found The warmest welcome
at an inn."

As to Shenstone's blank verse--of which there is not much--the
doctor says: "His blank verses, those that can read them may probably
find to be like the blank verses of his neighbors."

Shenstone encouraged Percy to publish his "Reliques." The plans
for the grounds at Abbotsford were somewhat influenced by
Didsley's description of the Leasowes, which Scott studied
with great interest.

In 1744 Mark Akenside, a north country man and educated
partly in Scotland, published his "Pleasures of Imagination,"
afterwards rewritten as "The Pleasures of the Imagination" and
spoiled in the process.

The title and something of the course of thought in the poem
were taken from Addison's series of papers on the subject (_Spectator_,
Nos. 411-421).

Akenside was a man of learning and a physician of distinction.

His poem, printed when he was only twenty-three, enjoyed
a popularity now rather hard to account for.

Gray complained of its obscurity and said it was issued nine years
too early, but admitted that now and then it rose "even to the best,
particularly in description."

Akenside was harsh, formal, and dogmatic, as a man. Smollett
caricatured him in "Peregrine Pickle."
But Winthrop remarked that he could not take deputed honours;
and quietly laid it in the hand of its owner. Elizabeth, with
a face a little blank, clasped it on for herself. Rufus looked
somewhat curious and somewhat amused.

"I am afraid you will say of my brother, Miss Haye, that
though certainly _young_ enough, he is not very gallant," he
said.

Elizabeth gave no answer to this speech, nor sign of hearing,
unless it might be gathered from the cool free air with which
she made her way out of the group and left them at the window.
She joined herself to President Darcy, at the other side of
the fire, and engaged him in talk with her about different
gems and the engraving of them, so earnestly that she had no
eyes nor ears for anybody else. And when any of the gentlemen
brought her refreshments, she took or refused them almost
without acknowledgment, and always without lifting her eyes to
see to whom it might be due.

The company were all gone, and a little pause, of rest or of
musing, had followed the last spoken 'good night.' It was
musing on Elizabeth's part; for she broke it with,

"Father, if you can give Mr. Landholm aid in any way, I hope
you will."

"My dear," said her father, "I don't know what I can do. I did
offer to set him a going in business, but he don't like my
line; and I have nothing to do with his, away up in the North
there among the mountains."

"O I don't mean that Mr. Landholm -- I mean the other."

"Winthrop," said Mr. Haye.

"Elizabeth likes him much the best," said Miss Cadwallader.

"I don't," said Mr. Haye.

"Neither do I!"

"I do," said Elizabeth. "I think he is worth at least ten of
his brother."

"She likes him so well, that if you don't help him, dear Mr.
Haye, there is every likelihood that somebody else will."

"I certainly would," said Elizabeth, "if there was any way
that I could. But there is not."

"I don't know that he wants help," said Mr. Haye.

"Why, he must, father! -- he can't live upon nothing; how much
means do you suppose he has?"

"I met him at the chop-house the other day," said Mr. Haye; --
"he was eating a very good slice of roast beef. I dare say he
paid for it."

"But he is struggling to make his way up into his profession,"
said Elizabeth. "He _must_ be."

"What must he be?" said Rose.

"Struggling."

"Perhaps he is," said Mr. Haye, "but he don't say so. If I see
him struggling, I will try what I can do."

"Oh father! --"

"Why should Winthrop Landholm be helped," said Rose, "more
than all the other young men who are studying in the city?"

"Because I know him," said Elizabeth, "and don't happen to
know the others. And because I like him."

"I like him too," said her father yawning, "but I don't know
anything very remarkable about him. I like his brother the
best."

"He is honest, and good, and _independent_," said Elizabeth;
"and those are the very people that ought to be helped."

"And those are the very people that it is difficult to help,"
said her father. "How do you suppose he would take it, if I
were to offer him a fifty dollar note to-morrow?"

"I don't suppose he would take it at all," said Elizabeth.
"You couldn't help him so. But there are other ways."

"You may give him all your business, when he gets into his
profession," said Mr. Haye. "I don't know what else you can
do. Or you can use your influence with Mr. Satterthwaite to
get his father to employ him."

"You and he may both be very glad to do it yet," said
Elizabeth. "I shouldn't wonder."

"Then I don't see why you are concerned about him," said Rose.

Elizabeth was silent, with a face that might be taken to say
there was nobody within hearing worthy of her words.

Rufus went back to his work in the mountains, and Winthrop
struggled on; if most diligent and unsparing toil, and patient
denying himself of necessary and wished-for things, were
struggling. It was all his spare time could do to make clear
the way for the hours given to his profession. There was
little leisure for rest, and he had no means to bestow on
pleasure; and that is a very favourable stating of the case as
far as regards the last item. Mr. Inchbald never asked for
rent, and never had it; not in those days. That the time would
come, Winthrop believed; and his kind host never troubled
himself to inquire.

There were pleasures, however, that Winthrop could not buy and
which were very freely his. Mr. Herder's friendship introduced
him to society, some of the best worth to be found, and which
opened itself circle after circle to let him in. He had the
freedom of President Darcy's house, and of Mr. Haye's, where
he met other sets; in all, covering the whole ground of
Mannahatta good society; and in all which Winthrop could not
but know he was gladly seen. He had means and facilities for
social enjoyment, more, by many, than he chose to avail
himself of; facilities that did not lack temptation. In Mr.
Herder's set, Winthrop often was found; other houses in the
city saw him but rarely.

There was an exception, -- he was often at Mr. Haye's; why, it
did not very plainly appear. He was certainly made welcome by
the family, but so he was by plenty of other families; and the
house had not a more pleasant set of familiars than several
other houses could boast. Mr. Haye had no sort of objection to
giving him so much countenance and encouragement; and Rose
kept all her coldness and doubtful speeches for other times
than those when he was near. Elizabeth held very much her old
manner; in general chose to have little to do with him; either
haughtily or carelessly distant, it might be taken for one or
the other. Though _which_ it might be taken for, seemed to give
no more concern to the gentleman in question than it did to
herself.


CHAPTER XIX.


A man may hear this shower sing in the wind.
MERRY WIVES OF WINDSOR.


One summer's afternoon, -- this was the first summer of
Winthrop's being in Mannahatta, -- he went to solace himself
with a walk out of town. It was a long and grave and
thoughtful walk; so that Mr. Landholm really had very little
good of the bright summer light upon the grass and trees.
Furthermore, he did not even find it out when this light was
curtained in the west with a thick cloud, which straightway
became gilt and silver-edged in a marvellous and splendid
degree. The cloud of thought was thicker than that, if not
quite so brilliant; and it was not until low growls of thunder
began to salute his ear, that he looked up and found the
silver edge fast mounting to the zenith and the curtain
drawing its folds all around over the clear blue sky. His next
look was earthward, for a shelter; for at the rate that
chariot of the storm was travelling he knew he had not many
minutes to seek one before the storm would be upon him.
Happily a blacksmith's shop, that he would certainly have
passed without seeing it, stood at a little distance; and
Winthrop thankfully made for it. He found it deserted; and
secure of a refuge, took his place at the door to watch the
face of things; for though the edge of the town was near, the
storm was nearer, and it would not do to run for it. The
blackness covered everything now, changing to lurid light in
the storm quarter, and big scattered drops began to come
plashing down. This time Winthrop's mind was so much in the
clouds that he did not know what was going on in the earth;
for while he stood looking and gazing, two ladies almost ran
over him. Winthrop's senses came back to the door of the
blacksmith's shop, and the ladies recovered themselves.

"How do you do, Mr. Landholm," said the one, with a bow.

"O Mr. Winthrop!" cried the other, -- "what shall we do? we
can't get home, and I'm so frightened! --"

Winthrop had not time to open his lips, for either civility or
consolation, when a phaeton, coming at a furious rate,
suddenly pulled up before them, and Mr. Satterthwaite jumped
out of it and joined himself to the group. His business was to
persuade Miss Haye to take the empty place in his carriage and
escape with him to the shelter of her own house or his
father's. Miss Haye however preferred getting wet, and walking
through the mud, and being blinded with the lightning, all of
which alternatives Mr. Satterthwaite presented to her; at
least no other conclusion could be drawn, for she very
steadily and coolly refused to ride home with him.

"Mr. Landholm," said Mr. Satterthwaite in desperation, "don't
you advise Miss Haye to agree to my proposition?"

"I never give advice, sir," said Winthrop, "after I see that
people's minds are made up. Perhaps Miss Cadwallader may be
less stubborn."

Mr. Satterthwaite could do no other than turn to Miss
Cadwallader, who wanted very little urging.

"But Rose!" said her cousin, -- "you're not going to leave me
alone?"

"No, I don't," said Rose. "I'm sure you've got somebody with
you; and he's got an umbrella."

"Don't, Rose!" said Elizabeth, -- "stay and go home with me --
the storm will be over directly."

"It won't -- I can't," said Rose, -- "It won't be over this
hour, and I'm afraid --"

And into Mr. Satterthwaite's phaeton she jumped, and away Mr.
Satterthwaite's phaeton went, with him and her in it.

"You had better step under shelter, Miss Haye," said Winthrop;
"it is beginning to sprinkle pretty fast."

"No," said Elizabeth, "I'll go home -- I don't mind it. I would
rather go right home -- I don't care for the rain."

"But you can't go without the umbrella," said Winthrop, "and
that belongs to me."

"Well, won't you go with me?" said Elizabeth, with a look half
doubtful and half daunted.

"Yes, as soon as it is safe. This is a poor place, but it is
better than nothing. You must come in here and have patience
till then."

He went in and Elizabeth followed him, and she stood there
looking very doubtful and very much annoyed; eyeing the fast
falling drops as if her impatience could dry them up. The
little smithy was black as such a place should be; nothing
looked like a seat but the anvil, and that was hardly safe to
take advantage of.

"I wish there was something here for you to sit down upon,"
said Winthrop peering about, -- "but everything is like
Vulcan's premises. It is a pity I am not Sir Walter Raleigh
for your behoof; for I suppose Sir Walter didn't mind walking
home without his coat, and I do."

"He only threw off his cloak," said Elizabeth.

"I never thought of wearing mine this afternoon," said
Winthrop, "though I brought an umbrella. But see here, Miss
Elizabeth, -- here is a box, one end of which, I think, may be
trusted. Will you sit down?"

Elizabeth took the box, seeming from some cause or other
tongue-tied. She sat looking out through the open door at the
storm in a mixture of feelings, the uppermost of which was
vexation.

"I hope more than one end of this box may be trusted," she
presently roused herself to say. "I have no idea of giving
half trust to anything."

"Yet that is quite as much as it is safe to give to most
things," said Winthrop.

"Is it?"

"I am afraid so."

"I wouldn't give a pin for anything I couldn't trust
entirely," said Elizabeth.

"Which shews what a point of perfection the manufacture of
pins has reached since the days of Anne Boleyn," said
Winthrop.

"Of Anne Boleyn! -- What of them then?"

"Only that a statute was passed in that time, entitled, 'An
act for the true making of pins;' so I suppose they were then
articles of some importance. But the box may be trusted, Miss
Haye, for strength, if not for agreeableness. A quarter of
agreeableness with a remainder of strength, is a fair
proportion, as things go."

"Do you mean to compare life with this dirty box?" said
Elizabeth.

"They say an image should always elevate the subject," said
Winthrop smiling.

"What was the matter with the making of pins," said Elizabeth,
"that an act had to be made about it?"

"Why in those days," said Winthrop, "mechanics and
tradespeople were in the habit occasionally of playing false,
and it was necessary to look after them."

Elizabeth sat silently looking out again, wondering -- what she
had often wondered before -- where ever her companion had got
his cool self-possession; marvelling, with a little impatient
wonder, how it was that he would just as lief talk to her in a
blacksmith's shop in a thunder-storm, as in anybody's drawing-
room with a band playing and fifty people about. She was no
match for him, for she felt a little awkward. She, Miss Haye,
the heiress in her own right, who had lived in good company
ever since she had lived in company at all. Yet there he
stood, more easily, she felt, than she sat. She sat looking
straight out at the rain and thinking of it.

The open doorway and her vision were crossed a moment after by
a figure which put these thoughts out of her head. It was the
figure of a little black girl, going by through the rain, with
an old basket at her back which probably held food or firing
that she had been picking up along the streets of the city.
She wore a wretched old garment which only half covered her,
and that was already half wet; her feet and ancles were naked;
and the rain came down on her thick curly head. No doubt she
was accustomed to it; the road-worn feet must have cared
little for wet or dry, and the round shock of wool perhaps
never had a covering; yet it was bowed to the rain, and the
little blackey went by with lagging step and a sort of slow
crying. It touched Elizabeth with a disagreeable feeling of
pain. The thought had hardly crossed her mind, that she was
sorry for her, when to her great surprise she saw her
companion go to the door and ask the little object of her pity
to come in under the shed. The child stopped her slow step and
her crying and looked up at him.

"Come in here till the rain's over," he repeated.

She gave her head a sort of matter-of-course shake, without
moving a pair of intelligent black eyes which had fixed on his
face.

"Come in," said Winthrop.

The child shook her head again, and said,

"Can't!"

"Why not?" said Winthrop.

"Mustn't!"

"Why mustn't you?"

"'Cause."

"Come in," said Winthrop, -- and to Elizabeth's exceeding
astonishment he laid hold of the little black shoulder and
drew the girl into the shop, -- "it is going to storm hard; --
why mustn't you?"

The little blackey immediately squatted herself down on the
ground against the wall, and looking up at him repeated,

"'Cause."

"It's going to be a bad storm; -- you'll be better under here."

The child's eyes went out of the door for a moment, and then
came back to his face, as if with a sort of fascination.

"How far have you to go?"

"Home."

"How far is that?"

"It's six miles, I guess," said the owner of the eyes.

"That's too far for you to go in the storm. The lightning
might kill you."

"Kill me!"

"Yes. It might."

"I guess I'd be glad if it did," she said, with another glance
at the storm.

"Glad if it did! -- why?"

"'Cause."

"'Cause what?" said Winthrop, entering more into the child's
interests, Elizabeth thought, than he had done into hers.

"'Cause," repeated the blackey. -- "I don't want to get home."

"Who do you live with?"

"I live with my mother, when I'm to home."

"Where do you live when you are not at home?"

"Nowheres."

The gathered storm came down at this point with great fury.
The rain fell, whole water; little streams even made their way
under the walls of the shanty and ran across the floor. The
darkness asked no help from black walls and smoky roof.

"Isn't this better than to be out?" said Winthrop, after his
eyes had been for a moment drawn without by the tremendous
pouring of the rain. But the little black girl looked at it
and said doggedly,

"I don't care."

"Where have you been with that basket?"

"Down yonder -- where all the folks goes," she said with a
slight motion of her head towards the built-up quarter of the
country.

"Do you bring wood all the way from there on your back?"

"When I get some."

"Aren't you tired?"

The child looked at him steadily, and then in a strange
somewhat softened manner which belied her words, answered,

"No."

"You don't bring that big basket full, do you?"

She kept her bright eyes on him and nodded.

"I should think it would break your back."

"If I don't break my back I get a lickin'."

"Was that what you were crying for as you went by?"

"I wa'n't a cryin'!" said the girl. "Nobody never see me a
cryin' for nothin'!"

"You haven't filled your basket to-day."

She gave an askant look into it, and was silent.

"How came that?"

"'Cause! -- I was tired, and I hadn't had no dinner; and I
don't care! That's why I wished the thunder would kill me. I
can't live without eatin'."

"Have you had nothing since morning?"

"I don't get no mornin' -- I have to get my dinner."

"And you could get none to-day?"

"No. Everything was eat up."

"Everything isn't quite eaten up," said Winthrop, rummaging in
his coat pocket; and he brought forth thence a paper of figs
which he gave the girl. "He isn't so short of means as I
feared, after all," thought Elizabeth, "since he can afford to
carry figs about in his pocket." But she did not know that the
young gentleman had made his own dinner off that paper of
figs; and she could not guess it, ever when from his other
coat pocket he produced some biscuits which were likewise
given to eke out the figs in the little black girl's dinner.
She was presently roused to very great marvelling again by
seeing him apply his foot to another box, one without a clean
side, and roll it over half the length of the shed for the
child to sit upon.

"What do you think of life now, Miss Elizabeth?" he said,
leaving his charge to eat her figs and coming again to the
young lady's side.

"_That_ isn't life," said Elizabeth.

"It seems without the one quarter of agreeableness," he said.

"But it's horrible, Mr. Winthrop! --"

He was silent, and looked at the girl, who sitting on her coal
box was eating figs and biscuits with intense satisfaction.

"She is not a bad-looking child," said Elizabeth.

"She is a very good-looking child," said Winthrop; "at least
her face has a great deal of intelligence; and I think,
something more."

"What more?"

"Feeling, or capacity of feeling."

"I wish you had a seat, Mr. Landholm," said Elizabeth, looking
round.

"Thank you -- I don't wish for one."

"It was very vexatious in Rose to go and leave me!"

"There isn't another box for her if she had stayed," said
Winthrop.

"She would have me go out with her this afternoon to see her
dressmaker, who lives just beyond here a little; and father
had the horses. It was so pleasant an afternoon, I had no
notion of a storm."

"There's a pretty good notion of a storm now," said Winthrop.

So there was, beyond a doubt; the rain was falling in floods,
and the lightning and thunder, though not very near, were very
unceasing. Elizabeth still felt awkward and uneasy, and did
not know what to talk about. She never had talked much to Mr.
.

[15] For a bibliography of the Rowley controversy, consult
the article on Chatterton in the "Dictionary of National Biography

."

[16] "Ah, gentle dames! It gars me greet."

--_Tam o'Shanter_
[17] _Ante_, p. 350

.

[18] "Chatterton. A Story of the Year 1770," by David Masson
London, 1874

.

[19] "Eighteenth Century Literature," p. 334

.

[20] A recent critic, the Hon. Roden Noel ("Essays on Poetry
and Poets," London, 1886), thinks that "'Aella' is a drama worthy
of the Elizabethans" (p. 44).

"As to the Rowley series," as a whole, he does "not hesitate to say
that they contain some of the finest poetry in our language" (p. 39).

The Choric "Ode to Freedom" in "Goddwyn" appears to Mr.
Noel to be the original of a much admired passage in "Childe
Harold," in which war is personified, "and at any rate is finer"!

[21] See in Wm. Howitt's "Homes of the Poets," Vol. I. pp.
264-307, the description of a drawing of this building in
1138, done by Chatterton and inserted in Barrett's "History."

[22] For some remarks on Chatterton's metrical originality, see
"Ward's English Poets," Vol.

III, pp. 400-403.

[23] Look at.

[24] Blake was an early adherent of the "Gothic artists who built
the Cathedrals in the so-called Dark Ages . . . of whom the world
was not worthy."

Mr. Rossetti has pointed out his obligations to Ossian and possibly
to "The Castle of Otranto."

See Blake's poems "Fair Eleanor" and "Gwin, King of Norway

."

[25] Chatterton's sister testifies that he had the romantic habit
of sitting up all night and writing by moonlight.

Cambridge Ed. p. lxi.

[26] Other standard lives of Chatterton are those by Gregory, 1789,
(reprinted and prefixed to the Southey and Cottle edition): Dix,
1837; and Wilson, 1869

.

[27] Rowleian: there is no such instrument known unto men.

The romantic love of _color_ is observable in this poem, and is
strong everywhere in Chatterton

.

[28] See also the sonnet: "O Chatterton, how very sad thy
fate"--Given in Lord Houghton's memoir.

"Life and Letters of John Keats": By R. Monckton Milnes, p. 20
(American Edition, New York, 1848).

[29] Chatterton, Blake, Coleridge, Keats, Shelley.

"The absolutely miraculous Chatterton," Rossetti elsewhere styles him

.

[30] "Historie du Romantisme," pp. 153-54

.

[31] "Chatterton," a drama by Jones and Herman, was played
at the Princess' Theater, London, May 22, 1884.

CHAPTER XI.

The German Tributary
Up to the last decade of the eighteenth century the romantic movement
in Great Britain had been self-developed and independent of foreign
influence, except for such stimulus as it had found, once and again,
in the writings of continental scholars like Sainte Palaye and
Mallet.

But now the English literary current began to receive a tributary
stream from abroad.

A change had taken place in the attitude of the German mind which
corresponds quite closely to that whose successive
steps we have been following. In Germany, French classicism
had got an even firmer hold than in England.

It is well-known that Frederick the Great (1740-86) regarded
his mother-tongue as a barbarous dialect, hardly fit for literary
use.

In his own writings, prose and verse, he invariably employed
French; and he boasted to Gottsched that from his youth up he had
not read a German book.[1]
But already before the middle of the century, and just about the
time of the publication of Thomason's "Seasons," the so-called Swiss
school, under the leadership of the Züricher, Johann Jacob Bodmer,
had begun a national movement and an attack upon Gallic influences.

Bodmer fought under Milton's banner, and in the preface to
his prose translation of "Paradise Lost" (1732), he praised
Shakspere as the English Sophocles.

In his "Abhandlung von dem Wunderbaren" ("Treatise on the Marvelous,"
1740) he asserted the claims of freedom, nature, and the inspired
imagination against the rules of French critics, very much as the
Wartons and Bishop Hurd did a few years later in England.

_Deutscheit, Volkspoesie_, the German past, the old Teutonic
hero-age, with the _Kaiserzeit_ and the Middle Ages in
general, soon came into fashion.

"As early as 1748 Bodmer had published specimens from the
Minnesingers, in 1757 he had brought out a part of the Nibelungenlied,
in 1758 and 1759 a more complete collection of the Minnesingers,
and till 1781, till just before his death, he continued to produce
editions of the Middle High-German poems.

Another Swiss writer, Christian Heinrich Myller, a pupil of Bodmer's
. . . published in 1784 and 1785 the whole of the Nibelungenlied
and the most important of the chivalrous epics.

Lessing, in his preface to Gleim's 'War-songs,' called attention
to the Middle High German poets, of whom he continued to be throughout
his life an ardent admirer.

Justus Möser took great interest in the Minnesingers.
About the time when 'Götz' appeared, this enthusiasm for early
German poetry was at its strongest, and Bürger, Voss, Miller, and
Höltz wrote Minnesongs, in which they imitated the old German lyric
poets.

In 1773 Gleim published 'Poems after the Minnesingers,' and in
1779 'Poems after Walther von der Vogelweide.'

Some enthusiasts had already hailed the Nibelungenlied
as the German Iliad, and Bürger, who vied hard with the rest, but
without much success, in turning Homer into German, insisted on
dressing up the Greek heroes a little in the Nibelungen style.

He and a few other poets loved to give their ballads a chivalrous
character.

Fritz Stolberg wrote the beautiful song of a German boy,
beginning, 'Mein Arm wird stark und gross mein Muth, gib,
Vater, mir ein Schwert'; and the song of the old Swabian
knight--'Sohn, da hast du meinen Speer; meinem Arm wird er zu
schwer.'

Lessing's 'Nathan,' too, appealed to this enthusiasm for the
times of chivalry, and must have strengthened the feeling.

An historian like the Swiss, Johannes Müller, began to show
the Middle Ages in a fairer light, and even to ascribe great merits
to the Papacy.

But in doing so, Johannes Müller was only following in Herder's
steps.

Herder . . . had written against the self-conceit of his
age, its pride in its enlightenment and achievements.

He found in the Middle Ages the realization of his aesthetic ideas,
namely, strong emotion, stirring life and action, everything guided
by feeling and instinct, not by morbid thought: religious ardor and
chivalrous honor, boldness in love and strong patriotic feeling

."[2]

When the founders of a truly national literature in Germany cut
loose from French moorings, they had an English pilot aboard; and
in the translations from German romances, dramas, and ballads that
were made by Scott, Coleridge, Taylor, Lewis, and others, English
literature was merely taking back with usury what it had lent its
younger sister.

Mention has already been made of Bürger's and Herder's renderings
from Percy's "Reliques,"[3] an edition of which was published at
Göttingen in 1767; as well as of the strong excitement aroused in
Germany by MacPherson's "Ossian

.

"[4] This last found--besides the Viennese Denis--another
translator in Fritz Stolberg, who carried his medievalism so far
as to join the Roman Catholic Church in 1800.

Klopstock's "Kriegslied," written as early as 1749, was in the meter
of "Chevy Chase," which Klopstock knew through Addison's _Spectator_
papers.

Through Mallet, the Eddaic literature made an impression in Germany
as in England; and Gerstenberg's "Gedicht eines Skalden" (1766),
one of the first-fruits of the German translation of the "Historire
de Dannemarc," preceded by two years the publication--though not
the composition--of Gray's poems from the Norse.

But the spirit which wrought most mightily upon the new German
literature was Shakspere's.

During the period of French culture there had been practically no
knowledge of Shakspere in Germany.

In 1741 Christian von Borck, Prussian ambassador to London, had
translated "Julius Caesar."

This was followed, a few years later, by a version of "Romeo and
Juliet."

In 1762-66 Wieland translated, in whole or in part, twenty-two
Shakspere's plays.

His translation was in prose and has been long superseded by
the Tieck-Schlegel translation (1797-1801-1810). Goethe first
made acquaintance with Shakspere, when a student at Leipsic, through
the detached passages given in "Dodd's Beauties of Shakspere

.

"[5] He afterward got hold of Wieland's translation, and when he
went to Strassburg he fell under the influence of Herder, who
inspired him with his own enthusiasm for "Ossian," and the
_Volkslieder_, and led him to study Shakspere in the original.

Young Germany fastened upon and appropriated the great
English dramatist with passionate conviction.

He became an object of worship, an article of faith.

The Shakspere _cultus_ dominated the whole _Sturm- und Drangperoide_.

The stage domesticated him: the poets imitated him: the critics
exalted him into the type and representative (_Urbild_) of Germanic
art, as opposed to and distinguished from the art of the Latin
races, founded upon a false reproduction of the antique.[6] It was
a recognition of the essential kinships between the two separated
branches of the great Teutonic stock.

The enthusiastic young patriots of the Göttinger _Hain_,--who hated
everything French and called each other by the names of ancient
bards,--accustomed themselves to the use of Shaksperian phrases in
conversation; and on one occasion celebrated the dramatist's birthday
so uproariously that they were pounced upon by the police and spent
the night in the lockup.

In Goethe's circle at Strassburg, which numbered, among others,
Lenz, Klinger, and H.

L.

Wagner, this Shakspere mania was _de rigueur_.

Lenz, particularly, who translated "Love's Labour's Lost," excelled
in whimsical imitations of "such conceits as clownage keeps in pay

.

"[7] Upon his return to Frankfort, Goethe gave a feast in Shakspere's
honor at his father's house (October 14, 1771), in which healths
were drunk to the "Will of all Wills," and the youthful host delivered
an extravagant eulogy.

"The first page of Shakspere's that I read," runs a sentence of
this oration, "made me his own for life, and when I was
through with the first play, I stood like a man born blind, to
whom sight has been given by an instant's miracle.

I had a most living perception of the fact that my being had
been expanded a whole infinitude.

Everything was new and strange; my eyes ached with the unwonted
light."[8]

Lessing, in his onslaught upon the French theater in his
"Hamburgische Dramaturgie" (1767-69), maintained that there was a
much closer agreement between Sophocles and Shakspere in the
essentials of dramatic art than between Sophocles and Racine or
Voltaire in their mechanical copies of the antique.

In their own plays, Lessing, Goethe, and Schiller all took
Shakspere as their model. But while beginning with imitation,
they came in time to work freely in the spirit of Shakspere rather
than in his manner.

Thus the first draught of Goethe's "Götz von Berlichingen"
conforms in all externals to the pattern of a Shaksperian
"history." The unity of action went overboard along with those
of time and place; the scene was shifted for a monologue of three
lines or a dialogue of six; tragic and comic were interwoven; the
stage was thronged with a motley variety of figures, humors, and
conditions--knights, citizens, soldiers, horse-boys, peasants; there
was a court-jester; songs and lyric passages were interspersed;
there were puns, broad jokes, rant, Elizabethan metaphors, and
swollen trunk-hose hyperboles, with innumerable Shakesperian
reminiscences in detail.

But the advice of Herder, to whom he sent his manuscript, and the
example of Lessing, whose "Emilia Galotti" had just appeared,
persuaded Goethe to recast the piece and give it a more independent
form.

Scherer[9] says that the pronunciamento of the new national movement
in German letters was the "small, badly printed anonymous book"
entitled "Von Deutscher Art und Kunst, einige fliegende Blätter"
("Some Loose Leaves about German Style and Art"), which appeared
in 1773 and contained essays by Justus Möser, who "upheld the liberty
of the ancient Germans as a vanished ideal"; by Johann Gottfried
Herder, who "celebrated the merits of popular song, advocated a
collection of the German _Volkslieder_, extolled the greatness of
Shakspere, and prophesied the advent of a German Shakspere"; and
Johann Wolfgang Goethe, who praised the Strassburg Minster and
Gothic architecture[10] in general, and "asserted that art, to be
true, must be characteristic.

The reform, or revolution, which this little volume announced was
connected with hostility to France, and with a friendly attitude
toward England. . .

This great movement was, in fact, a revulsion from the spirit of
Voltaire to that of Rousseau, from the artificiality of society to
the simplicity of nature, from doubt and rationalism to feeling and
faith, from _a priori_ notions[11] to history, from hard and fast
aesthetic rules to the freedom of genius.

Goethe's 'Götz' was the first revolutionary symptom which really
attracted much attention, but the 'Fly-sheets on German Style and
Art' preceded the publication of 'Götz,' as a kind of programme or
manifesto."

Even Wieland, the mocking and French-minded, the man of consummate
talent but shallow genius, the representative of the
_Aufklärung_ (_Éclaircissement_, Illumination) was carried away
by this new stream of tendency, and saddled his hoppogriff for a
ride _ins alte romantische Land_.

He availed himself of the new "Library of Romance" which Count
Tressan began publishing in France in 1775, studied Hans Sachs and
Hartmann von Aue, experiments with Old German meters, and enriched
his vocabulary from Old German sources.

He poetized popular fairy tales, chivalry stories, and motives from
the Arthurian epos, such as "Gandalin" and "Geron der Adeliche"
("Gyron le Courteois").

But his best and best-known work in this temper was "Oberon"
(1780) a rich composite of materials from Chaucer, "A Midsummer
Night's Dream," and the French romance of "Huon of Bordeaux

."[12]

From this outline--necessarily very imperfect and largely at
second hand--of the course of the German romantic movement
in the eighteenth century, it will nevertheless appear that it ran
parallel to the English most of the way.

In both countries the reaction was against the _Aufklärung_, _i.e._,
against the rationalistic, prosaic, skeptical, common-sense spirit
of the age, represented in England by deistical writers like
Shaftesbury, Mandeville, Bolingbroke, and Tindal in the department
of religious and moral philosophy; and by writers like Addison,
Swift, Prior, and Pope in polite letters; and represented most
brilliantly in the literatures of Europe by Voltaire.

In opposition to this spirit, an effort was now made to hark back
to the ages of faith; to recover the point of view which created
mythology, fairy lore, and popular superstitions; to _believe_, at
all hazards, not only in God and the immortal soul of man, but in
the old-time corollaries of these beliefs, in ghosts, elves, demons,
and witches.

In both countries, too, the revolution, as it concerned form, was
a break with French classicism and with that part of the native
literature which had followed academic traditions.

Here the insurrection was far more violent in Germany than in
England,[13] partly because Gallic influence had tyrannized there
more completely and almost to the supplanting of the vernacular by
the foreign idiom, for literary uses; and partly because Germany
had nothing to compare with the shining and solid achievements of
the Queen Anne classics in England.

It was easy for the new school of German poets and critics to
brush aside _perruques_ like Opitz, Gottsched, and Gellert--authors
of the fourth and fifth class.

But Swift and Congreve, and Pope and Fielding, were not thus to be
disposed of.

We have noted the cautious, respectful manner in which such innovators
as Warton and Percy ventured to question Pope's supremacy and to
recommend older English poets to the attention of a polite age; and
we have seen that Horace Walpole's Gothic enthusiasms were not
inconsistent with literary prejudices more conservation than radical,
upon the whole.

In England, again, the movement began with imitations of Spenser
and Milton, and, gradually only, arrived at the resuscitation of
Chaucer and medieval poetry and the translation of Bardic and Scaldic
remains.

But in Germany there was no Elizabethan literature to mediate between
the modern mind and the Middle Age, and so the Germans resorted to
England and Shakspere for this.

In Germany, as in England, though for different reasons, the romantic
revival did not culminate until the nineteenth century, until the
appearance of the _Romantische Schule_ in the stricter sense--of
Tieck, Novalis, the Schlegel brothers, Wackenroder, Fouqué, Von
Arnim, Brentano, and Uhland.

In England this was owing less to arrested development than to the
absence of genius.

There the forerunners of Scott, Coleridge, and Keats were writers
of a distinctly inferior order: Akenside, Shenstone, Dyer, the
Wartons, Percy, Walpole, Mrs.

Radcliffe, "Monk" Lewis, the boy Chatterton. If a few rise above
this level, like Thomason, Collins, and Gray, the slenderness
of their performance, and the somewhat casual nature of their
participation in the movement, diminish their relative importance.

Gray's purely romantic work belongs to the last years of his life.

Collins' derangement and early death stopped the unfolding
of many buds of promise in this rarely endowed lyrist.
Thomson, perhaps, came too early to reach any more advanced stage
of evolution than Spenserism.

In Germany, on the contrary, the pioneers were men of the
highest intellectual stature, Lessing, Herder, Goethe, Schiller.
But there the movement was checked for a time by counter-currents,
or lost in broader tides of literary life.

English romanticism was but one among many contemporary tendencies:
sentimentalism, naturalism, realism.

German romanticism was simply an incident of the _sturm- und
Drangperiode_, which was itself but a temporary phase of the swift
and many-sided unfolding of the German mind in the latter half of
the last century; one element in the great intellectual ferment
which threw off, among other products, the Kantian philosophy, the
"Laocoön," "Faust," and "Wilhelm Meister"; Winckelmann's "Geschichte
der Kunst des Alterthums" and Schiller's "Wallenstein" and "Wilhelm
Tell."

Men like Goethe and Schiller were too broad in their culture,
too versatile in their talents, too multifarious in their mental
activities and sympathies to be classified with a school.

The temper which engendered "Götz" and "Die Räuber" was only
a moment in the history of their _Entwickelung_; they passed on
presently into other regions of thought and art.

In Goethe especially there ensued, after the time of his _Italienische
Reise_, a reversion to the classic; not the exploded pseudo-classic
of the eighteenth-century brand, but the true Hellenic spirit which
expressed itself in such work as "Iphigenie auf Tauris," "Hermann
und Dorothea," and the "Schöne Helena" and "Classische Walpurgis-Nacht"
episodes in the second part of "Faust."

"In his youth," says Scherer, "a love for the historical past
of Germany had seized on the minds of many.

Imaginative writers filled the old Teutonic forests with Bards
and Druids and cherished an enthusiastic admiration for Gothic
cathedrals and for the knights of the Middle Ages and of the sixteenth
century. . .

The sunshine and
the shadow slept upon Wut-a-qut-o, as it did a little while
ago; but neither sunshine nor shadow was the same thing now,
for Winthrop was away.

He had lost perhaps less than they; though the balance was
struck pretty fair. But he was actively bending every energy
to the accomplishment of a great object. The intensity of
effort might swallow up some other things, and the
consciousness of sure and growing success might make amends
for them. Besides, he had been long fighting the battle of
life away from home, and was accustomed to it; they never got
accustomed to it. Every fresh coming home was the pledge of a
fresh parting, the pleasure of the one not more sure than the
pain of the other. If Winthrop had changed, in all these years
and goings and comings, it might have been different; if they
could have found that their lost treasure was less true or
strong or fair, than when they first let it go. But he was so
exactly the same Winthrop that they had been sorry for that
first time, that they could only be sorry again with the same
sorrow; -- the same, but for the lost novelty of that first
time, and the added habit of patience, and the nearer hope of
his and their reward.

So through the first winter and the first summer, and the
second winter and the second summer, of his city
apprenticeship, Winthrop wrought on; now with a cold room and
little fire in his chimney, and now with the sun beating upon
the roof, and the only hope of night's sea-breeze. But the
farmer's boy had known cold and heat a great while ago, and he
could bear both. He could partly forget both, sometimes in
literary unbending with Mr. Herder and his friends; and at
other times in a solitary walk on the Green overlooking the
bay, to catch the sea-breeze more fresh and soon, and look up
the river channel towards where the shadows lay upon Wut-a-
qut-o. And sometimes in a visit at Mr. Haye's.

Of late, in the second summer, this last sort of pleasure-
taking grew to be more frequent. Mr. Herder was less visited,
and Mr. Haye more. Winthrop was always welcome, but there was
no change in the manner of his being received. Unless perhaps
a little more graciousness on Elizabeth's part, and a trifle
less on Rose's, might be quoted.

So the sea-breezes blew through the dog-days; and September
ushered in and ushered out its storms; and October came, clear
and fair, with strength and health for body and mind. With
October came Rufus, having just made an end of his work in the
North country. He came but for a few days' stay in passing
from one scene of labours to another. For those few days he
abode with his brother, sharing his room and bed.

"Well, Winthrop, I've stuck to my choice," he remarked, the
second evening of his being there. The tone indicated the
opening of a great budget of thoughts. Winthrop was bending
over a parchment-coloured volume, and Rufus pacing up and down
the longest stretch of the little room.

"I am glad of it," said Winthrop, without looking up.

"I am not sure that I am."

"What's the matter?"

"I don't see that I gain much by it, and I certainly lose."

"What do you expect to gain?"

"Nothing but money, -- and I don't get that."

"It's safe, isn't it?"

"Yes, and so are winter's snows, in their treasury; -- and I
could as soon get it by asking for it."

"Let us hope it will come with the snows," said Winthrop, his
head still bent down over his book.

"You may talk; -- it is easy waiting for you."

"Query, how that would give me a right to talk," said Winthrop
turning over a leaf; -- "supposing it to be a fact; of which I
have some doubts."

"What have you been doing all to-day?"

"The usual routine -- which after all is but preparing to do."

"What has been the routine to-day?"

"You saw my breakfast and saw me get it. -- Then I went out. --
Then I read, according to custom."

"What?"

"Classics."

"Do you!"

"For awhile. The rest of the morning between engrossing deeds
and the Record Office. First half of the afternoon, or rather
a larger proportion, ditto; the rest to meet my friends
Messrs. Jones and Satterthwaite."

"Satterthwaite! -- what does _he_ want?"

"To read Greek with me."

"Greek! What has put that into his head? Bob. Satterthwaite!"
-- and Rufus threw back his head and laughed in a great state
of amusement. "What has put _that_ into his head? -- eh,
Winthrop?"

"I don't inquire. It puts money in my pocket."

"Not much," said Rufus.

"No, not much."

"What's the reason, do you think? What moves _him_ to woo the
Muses? -- I'm afraid it's because he thinks it is a preliminary
wooing he must go through before he can be successful in
another quarter."

And again Rufus laughed, in high delight.

"I have no business with that," said Winthrop.

"What are you doing now?"

"Studying law."

"Stop."

"What for?"

"To talk to me."

"It seems to me I have been doing that for some time," said
Winthrop, without looking off his book.

"But I haven't begun. Winthrop, -- I have a great mind to give
up this engineering business."

"To do what instead?"

"Why -- you know I shall have some money coming to me -- quite a
little sum; -- Mr. Haye has very kindly offered to put me in
the way of laying it out to good advantage, and eventually of
getting into another line of occupation which would at the
same time be more lucrative, less laborious, and would keep me
in the regions of civilization. -- And perhaps -- Winthrop --
something might follow thereupon, --"

"What?" said his brother looking up.

"Something --"

"More definite in your purpose than in your speech."

"Not my purpose, exactly," said Rufus, -- "but in possibility."

"There is no peg in possibility for a wise man to hang his cap
on."

"Perhaps I am not a wise man," said Rufus, with a very queer
face, as if his mind were giving an askance look at the
subject.

"That's a supposititious case I shall leave you to deal with."

"Why it's the very sort of case it's your business to deal
with," said Rufus. "If the world was full of wise men you'd
stand a pretty fair chance of starving, Governor. But
seriously, -- do you think it is unbecoming a wise man to take
any lawful means of keeping out of the way of that same devil
of starvation?"

"Do you mean to say that you are in any danger of it?" said
Winthrop looking up again.

"Why no, -- not exactly; taking the words literally. But one
may starve and yet have enough to eat."

"If one refuses one's food."

"If one don't! I tell you, I have been starving for these two
years past. It is not living, to make to-day only feed to-
morrow. Besides -- I don't see any harm in purchasing, if one
can, an exemption from the universal doom of eating one's
bread in the sweat of one's brow."

"I think it depends entirely on what one pays for the
purchase," said Winthrop.

"Suppose one pays nothing."

"One executes a most unaccountable business transaction."

Rufus stopped and looked at him, and then took up his walk,
and half laughing went on.

"Suppose we leave talking in the dark, and understand one
another. Do you know what I am driving at?"

"Have you set off?" said Winthrop, with again a glance which
seemed to add to Rufus's amusement.

"No," he said, -- "I am just waiting for you to give me leave."

"The reins are not in my hands."

"Yes they are. Seriously, Winthrop, do you know what we are
talking about? -- What do you think of my making suit to one of
these ladies?"

"I do not think about it."

"You do not conceive it would be any disfavour to either of
them to induce her to accept me, I suppose. -- What do you
say?"

"You are indifferent towards which of them the suit should
incline?" said Winthrop.

"Why, that's as it may be -- I haven't thought enough about it
to know. They're a pretty fair pair to choose from --"

"Supposing that you have the choice," said Winthrop.

"Do you know anything to the contrary? --Has anybody else a
fairer entrance than myself?"

"I am not on sufficiently near terms with the family to be
able to inform you."

"Do _you_ think of entering _your_ plough, Governor?"

"Not in your field."

"What do you mean?"

"I mean that I am not in your way."

"Shall I be in yours?"

"No," said his brother coolly.

"In whose way then?"

"I am afraid in your own, Will."

"How do you mean?" asked the other a little fiercely.

"If you are so intent upon marrying money-bags, you may chance
to get a wife that will not suit you."

"You must explain yourself!" said Rufus haughtily. "In what
respect would either of these two not suit me?"

"Of two so different, it may safely be affirmed that if one
would the other would not."

"Two so different!" said Rufus. "What's the matter with either
of them?"

"There is this the matter with both --that you do not know
them."

"I _do_ know them!"

"From the rest of the world; but not from each other."

"Why not from each other?"

"Not enough for your liking or your judgment to tell which
would suit you."

"Why would not either suit?" said Rufus.

"I think -- if you ask me -- that one would not make you happy,
in the long run; and the other, with your present views and
aims, you could not make happy."

"Which is which?" said Rufus, laughing and drawing up a chair
opposite his brother.

"Either of them is which," said Winthrop. "Such being the
case, I don't know that it is material to inquire."

"It is very material! for I cannot be satisfied without the
answer. I am in earnest in the whole matter, Winthrop."

"So am I, very much in earnest."

"Which of them should I not make happy?" -- Rufus went on. --
"Rose? -- She is easily made happy."

"So easily, that you would be much more than enough for it."

"Then it is the other one whose happiness you are afraid for?"

"I don't think it is in much danger from you."

"Why? --what then?" said Rufus quickly.

"I doubt whether any one could succeed with her whose first
object was something else."

Rufus drew his fingers through his hair, in silence, for about
a minute and a half; with a face of thoughtful and somewhat
disagreeable consideration.

"And with the other one you think he could?"

"What?"

"Succeed? -- one whose first object, as you say, was something
else?"

"With the other I think anybody could."

"I don't know but I like that," said Rufus; -- "it is amiable.
She has more simplicity. She is a lovely creature!"

"If you ask your eye."

"If I ask yours!" --

"Every man must see with his own eyes," said Winthrop.

"Don't yours see her lovely?"

"They might, if they had not an inward counsellor that taught
them better."

"She is very sweet-tempered and sweet-mannered," said Rufus.

"Very."

"Don't you think so?"

"Certainly -- when it suits her."

"When it suits her!"

"Yes. She is naturally rude, and politically polite."

"And how's the other one? isn't she naturally rude too?"

"Not politically anything."

"And you think she wouldn't have me?"

"I am sure she would not, if she knew your motive."

"My motive! -- but my motive might change," said Rufus, pushing
back his chair and beginning to walk the floor again. "It
isn't necessary that my regards should be confined to her
gracious adjunctive recommendations. --"

He walked for some time without reply, and again the leaves of
Winthrop's book said softly now and then that Winthrop's head
was busy with them.

"Governor, you are very unsatisfactory!" said his brother at
length, standing now in front of him.

Winthrop looked up and smiled and said, "What would you have?"

"Your approbation!" -- was the strong and somewhat bitter
thought in Rufus's mind. He paused before he spoke.

"But Governor, really I am tired of this life -- it isn't what
I am fit for; -- and why not escape from it, if I can, by some
agreeable road that will do nobody any harm?"

"With all my heart," said Winthrop. "I'll help you."

"Well? --"

"Well --"

"You think this is not such a one?"

"The first step in it being a stumble."

"To whom would it bring harm, Governor?"

"The head must lower when the foot stumbles," said Winthrop.
"That is one harm."

"But you are begging the question!" said Rufus a little
impatiently.

"And you have granted it."

"I haven't!" said Rufus. "I don't see it. I don't see the
stumbling or the lowering. I should not feel myself lowered by
marrying a fine woman, and I hope she would not feel her own
self-respect injured by marrying me."

"You will not stand so high upon her money-bags as upon your
own feet."

"Why not have the advantage of both?"

"You cannot. People always sit down upon money-bags. The only
exception is in the case of money-bags they have filled
themselves."

Rufus looked at Winthrop's book for three minutes in silence.

"Well, why not then take at once the ease, for which the
alternative is a long striving?"

"If you can. But the long striving is not the whole of the
alternative; with that you lose the fruits of the striving --
all that makes ease worth having."

"But I should not relinquish them," said Rufus. "I shall not
sit down upon my money-bags."

"They are not _your_ money-bags."

"They will be -- if I prove successful."

"And how will you prove successful?"

"Why!" -- said Rufus, -- "what a question! --"

"I wish you would answer it nevertheless -- not to me, but to
yourself."

Whether Rufus did or not, the answer never came out. He paced
the floor again; several times made ready to speak, and then
checked himself.

"So you are entirely against me, --" he said at length.

"I am not against you, Will; -- I am _for_ you."

"You don't approve of my plan."

"No --I do not."

"I wish you would say why."

"I hardly need," said Winthrop with a smile. "You have said it
all to yourself."

"Notwithstanding which assumption, I should like to hear you
say it."

"For the greater ease of attack and defence?"

"If you please. For anything."

"What do you want me to do, Will?" said Winthrop looking up.

"To tell me why I should not marry Miss Haye or Miss
Cadwallader."

"You not knowing, yourself."

"Yes -- I don't," said Rufus.

Winthrop turned over a few leaves of his book and then spoke.

"You are stronger, not to lean on somebody else's strength.
You are more independent, not to lean at all. You are
honester, not to gain anything under false pretences. And you
are better to be yourself, Will Landholm, than the husband of
any heiress the sun shines upon, at such terms."

"What terms?"

"False pretences."

"What false pretences?"

"Asking the hand, when you only want the key that is in it.
Professing to give yourself, when in truth your purpose is to
give nothing that is not bought and paid for."

Rufus looked very grave and somewhat disturbed.

"That's a very hard characterizing of the matter, Governor,"
said he. "I don't think I deserve it."

"I hope you don't," said his brother.

Rufus began again to measure the little apartment with his
long steps.

"But this kind of thing is done every day, Winthrop."

"By whom?" said Winthrop.

"Why! -- by very good men; -- by everybody."

"Not by everybody."

"By what sort of people is it not done?"

"By you and me," said Winthrop smiling.

"You think then that a poor man should never marry a rich
woman?"

"Never, -- unless he can forget that she is rich and he poor."

Rufus walked for some time in silence.

"Well," he said, in a tone between dry and injured, -- "I am
going off to the West again, luckily; and I shall have no
opportunity for the present to disturb you by making false
pretences, of any sort."

"Is opportunity all that you lack?" said Winthrop looking up,
and with so simple an expression that Rufus quitted his walk
and his look together.

"Why did you never make trial for yourself, Winthrop?" he
said. "You have a remarkably fine chance; and fine opening
too, I should think. You are evidently very well received down
yonder."

"I have a theory of my own too, on the subject," said
Winthrop, -- "somewhat different from yours, but still enough
to work by."

"What's that?"

"I have no mind to marry any woman who is unwilling to be
obliged to me."

Rufus looked at his brother and at the fireplace awhile in
gravity.

"You are proud," he said at length.

"I must have come to it by living so high in the world," said
Winthrop.

"So high?" -- said Rufus.

"As near the sun as I can get. I thought it was very near,
some time in August last."

Winthrop laid by his book; and the two young men stood several
minutes, quite silent, on opposite sides of the hearth, with
folded hands and meditative countenances; but the face of the
one looked like the muddy waters of the Shatemuc tossed and
tumbled under a fierce wind; the other's was calm and steady
as Wut-a-qut-o's brow.

"So you won't have any woman that you don't _oblige_ to marry
you!" Rufus burst out. "Ha, ha, ha! -- ho, ho, ho! --"

Winthrop's mouth gave the slightest good-humoured token of
understanding him, -- it could not be called a smile. Rufus had
his laugh out, and cooled down into deeper gravity than
before.

"Well!" -- said he, -- "I'll go off to my fate, at the limitless
wild of the West. It seems a rough sort of fate."

"Make your fate for yourself," said Winthrop.

"_You_ will," said his brother. "And it will be what you will,
and that's a fair one. And you will oblige anybody you have a
mind to. And marry an heiress."

"Don't look much like it -- things at present," said Winthrop.
"I don't see the way very clear."

"As for me, I don't know what ever I shall come to," Rufus
added.

"Come to bed at present," said Winthrop. "That is one step."

"One step towards what?"

"Sleep in the first place; and after that, anything."

"What a strange creature you are, Governor! and how
doubtlessly and dauntlessly you pursue your way," Rufus said
sighing.

"Sighs never filled anybody's sails yet," said Winthrop. "They
are the very airs of a calm."

"Calm!" said Rufus.

"A dead calm," said his brother laughing.

"I wish I had _your_ calm," said Rufus. And with that the
evening ended.


CHAPTER XXI.


O what men dare do! what men may do! what men daily do! not
knowing what they do!
MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING.


One morning, about these days, Mr. and Miss Haye were seated
at the opposite ends of the breakfast-table. They had been
there for some time, silently buttering rolls and sipping
coffee, in a leisurely way on Mr. Haye's part, and an
ungratified one on the part of his daughter. He was
considering, also in a leisurely sort of way, the columns of
the morning paper; she considering him and the paper, and at
intervals knocking with her knife against the edge of her
plate, -- a meditative and discontented knife, and an impassive
and unimpressed plate. So breakfast went on till Elizabeth's
cup was nearly emptied.

"Father," said she, "it is very unsociable and stupid for you
to read the paper, and me to eat my breakfast alone. You might
read aloud, if you must read."

Mr. Haye brought his head round from the paper long enough to
swallow half a cupful of coffee.

"Where's Rose?"

"In bed, for aught I know. There is no moving her till she has
a mind."

"'Seems to me, it is quite as difficult to move you," said
her father.

"Ay, but then I _have a mind_ -- which makes all the difference."

Mr. Haye went back to his paper and considered it till the
rest of his cup of coffee was thoroughly cold. Elizabeth
finished her breakfast, and sat, drawn back into herself, with
arms folded, looking into the fireplace. Finding his coffee
cold, Mr. Haye's attention came at length back upon his
daughter.

"What do you want me to talk about?" he said.

"It don't signify, your talking about anything now," said
Elizabeth. "Everything is cold -- mind and matter together. I
don't know how you'll find the coffee, father."

Mr. Haye stirred it, with a discontented look.

"Rose is late," he remarked again.

"_That's_ nothing new," said Elizabeth. "Late is her time."

Mr. Haye drunk his cold cupful.

"You're very fond of her, Lizzie, aren't you?"

"No," said Elizabeth. "I don't think I am."

"Not fond of her!" said Mr. Haye in a very surprised tone.

"No," said Elizabeth, -- "I don't think I am."

"I thought you were," said her father, in a voice that spoke
both chagrin and displeasure.

"What made you think so?"

"You always seemed fond of her," said Mr. Haye.

"I can't have seemed so, for I never was so. There isn't
enough of her to be fond of. I talk to her, and like her after
a fashion, because she is the only person near me that I can
talk to -- that's all."

"_I_ am fond of her," said Mr. Haye.

"It takes more to make me fond of anybody," said his daughter.
"I know _you_ are."

"What does Rose want, to have the honour of your good
opinion?"

"O don't talk in that tone!" said Elizabeth. "I had rather you
would not talk at all. You have chosen an unhappy subject. It
takes a good deal to make me like anybody much, father."

"What does Rose want?"

"As near as possible, everything," said Elizabeth, -- "if you
_will_ have the answer."

"What?"

"Why father, she has nothing in the world but a very pretty
face."

"You grant her that," said Mr. Haye.

"Yes, I grant her that, though it is a great while since _I_ saw
it pretty. Father, I care nothing at all for any face which
has nothing beneath the outside. It's a barren prospect to me,
however fair the outside may be -- I don't care to let my eye
dwell on it."

"How do you like the prospect of your own, in the glass?"

"I should be very sorry if I didn't think it had infinitely
more in it than the face we have been speaking of. It is not
so beautifully tinted, nor so regularly cut; but _I_ like it
better."

"I am afraid few people will agree with you," said her father
dryly.

"There's one thing," said Elizabeth, -- "I sha'n't know it if
they don't. But then I see my face at a disadvantage, looking
stupidly at itself in the glass -- I hope it does better to
other people."

"I didn't know you thought quite so much of yourself," said
Mr. Haye.

"I haven't told you the half," said Elizabeth, looking at him.
"I am afraid I think more of myself than anybody else does, or
ever will."

"If you do it so well for yourself, I'm afraid other people
won't save you the trouble," said her father.

"I'm afraid _you_ will not, by the tone in which you speak,
father."

"What has set you against Rose?"

"Nothing in the world! I am not set against her. Nothing in
the world but her own emptiness and impossibility of being
anything like a companion to me."

"Elizabeth! --"

"Father! -- What's the matter?"

"How dare you talk in that manner?"

"Why father," said Elizabeth, her tone somewhat quieting as
his was roused, -- "I never saw the thing yet I didn't dare
say, if I thought it. Why shouldn't I?"

"Because it is not true -- a word of it."

"I'm sure I wish it wasn't true," said Elizabeth. "What I said
was true. It's a sorrowful truth to me, too, for I haven't a
soul to talk to that can understand me -- not even you, father,
it seems."

"I wish I didn't understand you," said Mr. Haye.

"It's nothing very dreadful to understand," said Elizabeth, --
"what I have been saying now. I wonder how you can think so
much of it. I know you love Rose better than I do."

"I love her so well --" said Mr. Haye, and stopped.

"So well that what?"

"That I can hardly talk to you with temper."

"Then don't let us talk about it at all," said Elizabeth,
whose own heightened colour shewed that her temper was moving.

"Unhappily it is necessary," said Mr. Haye dryly.

"Why in the world is it necessary? You can't alter the matter,
father, by talking; -- it must stand so."

"Stand how?"

"Why, as it does stand -- Rose and I as near as possible
nothing to each other."

"Things can hardly stand so," said Mr. Haye. "You must be
either less or more."

Elizabeth sat silent and looked at him. He looked at nothing
but what was on his plate.

"How would you like to have Rose take your place?"

"My place?" said Elizabeth.

"Yes," said Mr. Haye laconically.

"No place that I fill, _could_ be filled by Rose," said
Elizabeth, with the slightest perceptible lifting of her head
and raising of her brow.

"We will try that," said Mr. Haye bitterly; "for I will put
her over your head, and we will see."

"Put her _where?_" said Elizabeth.

It may be worth while to round out the conception of the term by
considering a few other definitions of _romantic_ which have been
proposed.

Dr. F. H. Hedge, in an article in the _Atlantic Monthly_[9] for
March, 1886, inquired, "What do we mean by romantic?"

Goethe, he says, characterized the difference between
classic and romantic "as equivalent to [that between] healthy
and morbid. Schiller proposed 'naïve and sentimental

.'[10] The greater part [of the German critics] regarded it
as identical with the difference between ancient and modern,
which was partly true, but explained nothing. None of the
definitions given could be accepted as quite satisfactory."[11]

Dr. Hedge himself finds the origin of romantic feeling in
wonder and the sense of mystery. "The essence of romance," he
writes, "is mystery"; and he enforces the point by noting the
application of the word to scenery.
"The woody dell, the leafy glen, the forest path which
leads, one knows not whither, are romantic: the public highway is
not."

"The winding secret brook . . . is romantic, as compared with
the broad river." "Moonlight is romantic, as contrasted with
daylight."

Dr. Hedge attributes this fondness for the mysterious to "the
influence of the Christian religion, which deepened immensely the
mystery of life, suggesting something beyond and behind the world
of sense."

This charm of wonder or mystery is perhaps only another name for
that "strangeness added to beauty" which Pater takes to be the
distinguishing feature of romantic art.

Later in the same article, Dr.

Hedge asserts that "the essence of romanticism is aspiration."

Much might be said in defense of this position. It has often been
pointed out, _e.g._, that a Gothic cathedral expresses aspiration,
and a Greek temple satisfied completeness.

Indeed if we agree that, in a general way, the classic is equivalent
to the antique, and the romantic to the medieval, it will be strange
if we do not discover many differences between the two that can
hardly be covered by any single phrase.

Dr.

Hedge himself enumerates several qualities of romantic art which
it would be difficult to bring under his essential and defining
category of wonder or aspiration.

Thus he announces that "the peculiarity of the classic style is
reserve, self-suppression of the writer"; while "the romantic is
self-reflecting."

"Clear, unimpassioned, impartial presentation of the subject . . .
is the prominent feature of the classic style.

The modern writer gives you not so much the things themselves
as his impression of them." Here then is the familiar critical
distinction between the objective and subjective methods--Schiller's
_naiv and sentimentalisch_--applied as a criterion of classic
and romantic style. This contrast the essayist develops at some
length, dwelling upon "the cold reserve and colorless simplicity
of the classic style, where the medium is lost in the object";
and "on the other hand, the inwardness, the sentimental
intensity, the subjective coloring of the romantic style."

A further distinguishing mark of the romantic spirit, mentioned
by Dr.
Hedge in common with many other critics, is the indefiniteness
or incompleteness of its creations. This is a consequence,
of course, of its sense of mystery and aspiration. Schopenbauer
said that music was the characteristic modern art, because
of its subjective, indefinite character. Pursuing this line of
thought, Dr. Hedge affirms that "romantic relates to classic
somewhat as music relates to plastic art. . . It [music]
presents no finished ideal, but suggests ideals beyond the
capacity of canvas or stone. Plastic art acts on the intellect,
music on the feelings; the one affects us by what it presents, the
other by what it suggests.

This, it seems to me, is essentially the difference between
classic and romantic poetry"; and he names Homer and Milton
as examples of the former, and Scott and Shelley of the latter
school.

Here then we have a third criterion proposed for determining
the essential _differentia_ of romantic art. First it was
mystery, then aspiration; now it is the appeal to the
emotions by the method of suggestion.

And yet there is, perhaps, no inconsistency on the critic's part
in this continual shifting of his ground.

He is apparently presenting different facets of the same
truth; he means one thing by this mystery, aspiration,
indefiniteness, incompleteness, emotion suggestiveness: that
quality or effect which we all feel to be present in romantic
and absent from classic work, but which we find it hard to
describe by any single term.

It is open to any analyst of our critical vocabulary to
draw out the fullest meanings that he can, from such pairs of
related words as classic and romantic, fancy and imagination, wit
and humor, reason and understanding, passion and sentiment.

Let us, for instance, develop briefly this proposition that the
ideal of classic art is completeness[12] and the ideal of romantic
art indefiniteness, or suggestiveness.

A.W. Schlegel[13] had already made use of two of the arts
of design, to illustrate the distinction between classic and
romantic, just as Dr.

Hedge uses plastic art and music. I refer to Schlegel's famous
saying that the genius of the antique drama was statuesque, and
that of the romantic drama picturesque. A Greek temple,
statue, or poem has no imperfection and offers no
further promise, indicates nothing beyond what it expresses.
It fills the sense, it leaves nothing to the imagination.

It stands correct, symmetric, sharp in outline, in the clear light
of day.

There is nothing more to be done to it; there is no concealment
about it.

But in romantic art there is seldom this completeness. The workman
lingers, he would fain add another touch, his ideal eludes
him.
Is a Gothic cathedral ever really finished? Is "Faust" finished?
Is "Hamlet" explained? The modern spirit is mystical; its
architecture, painting, poetry employ shadow to produce
their highest effects: shadow and color rather than contour.
On the Greek heroic stage there were a few figures, two or three
at most, grouped like statuary and thrown out in bold relief at the
apex of the scene: in Greek architecture a few clean, simple lines:
in Greek poetry clear conceptions easily expressible in language
and mostly describable in sensuous images.

The modern theater is crowded with figures and colors, and
the distance recedes in the middle of the scene. This love of
perspective is repeated in cathedral aisles,[14] the love of
color in cathedral windows, and obscurity hovers in the shadows
of the vault. In our poetry, in our religion these twilight
thoughts prevail. We seek no completeness here.

What is beyond, what is inexpressible attracts us. Hence
the greater spirituality of romantic literature, its deeper
emotion, its more passionate tenderness. But hence likewise
its sentimentality, its melancholy and, in particular, the
morbid fascination which the thought of death has had for the
Gothic mind.

The classic nations concentrated their attention on life and
light, and spent few thoughts upon darkness and the tomb.

Death was to them neither sacred nor beautiful.

Their decent rites of sepulture or cremation seem designed to
hide its deformities rather than to prolong its reminders. The
presence of the corpse was pollution.

No Greek could have conceived such a book as the "Hydriotaphia" or
the "Anatomy of Melancholy."

It is observable that Dr. Hedge is at one with Pater, in desiring
some more philosophical statement of the difference between classic
and romantic than the common one which makes it simply the difference
between the antique and the medieval.

He says: "It must not be supposed that ancient and classic,
on one side, and modern and romantic, on the other, are inseparably
one; so that nothing approaching to romantic shall be found in any
Greek or Roman author, nor any classic page in the literature of
modern Europe. . .

The literary line of demarcation is not identical with the
chronological one." And just as Pater says that the Odyssey
is more romantic than the Iliad, so Dr.

Hedge says that "the story of Cupid and Psyche,[15] in the 'Golden
Ass' of Apuleius, is as much a romance as any composition of the
seventeenth or eighteenth century."

Medievalism he regards as merely an accident of romance:
Scott, as most romantic in his themes, but Byron, in his mood.

So, too, Mr. Sidney Colvin[16] denies that "a predilection
for classic subjects . . . can make a writer that which we
understand by the word classical as distinguished from that which
we understand by the word romantic.

The distinction lies deeper, and is a distinction much less of
subject than of treatment. . .

In classical writing every idea is called up to the mind as
nakedly as possible, and at the same time as distinctly; it is
exhibited in white light, and left to produce its effect by its
own unaided power.[17] In romantic writing, on the other hand, all
objects are exhibited, as it were, through a colored and iridescent
atmosphere.

Round about every central idea the romantic writer summons up a
cloud of accessory and subordinate ideas for the sake of enhancing
its effect, if at the risk of confusing its outlines.

The temper, again, of the romantic writer is one of excitement,
while the temper of the classical writer is one of
self-possession. . .

On the one hand there is calm, on the other hand enthusiasm.

The virtues of the one style are strength of grasp, with clearness
and justice of presentment; the virtues of the other style are
glow of the spirit, with magic and richness of suggestion."

Mr.

Colvin then goes on to enforce and illustrate this contrast between
the "accurate and firm definition of things" in classical writers
and the "thrilling vagueness and uncertainty," the tremulous,
coruscating, vibrating or colored light--the "halo"--with which the
romantic writer invests his theme.

"The romantic manner, . . . with its thrilling uncertainties
and its rich suggestions, may be more attractive than the classic
manner, with its composed and measured preciseness of statement. . .

But on the other hand the romantic manner lends itself, as the true
classical does not, to inferior work.

Second-rate conceptions excitedly and approximately put into
words derive from it an illusive attraction which may make them
for a time, and with all but the coolest judges, pass as first-rate.

Whereas about true classical writing there can be no illusion.
It presents to us conceptions calmly realized in words that exactly
define them, conceptions depending for their attraction, not on
their halo, but on themselves."

As examples of these contrasting styles, Mr.

Colvin puts side by side passages from "The Ancient Mariner" and
Keats' "Ode to a Nightingale," with passages, treating similar
themes, from Landor's "Gebir" and "Imaginary Conversations."

The contrast might be even more clearly established by a study of
such a piece as Keats' "Ode on a Grecian Urn," where the romantic
form is applied to classical content; or by a comparison of Tennyson's
"Ulysses" and "The Lotus Eaters," in which Homeric subjects are
treated respectively in the classic and the romantic manner.

Alfred de Musset, himself in early life a prominent figure among
the French romanticists, wrote some capital satire upon the baffling
and contradictory definitions of the word _romantisme_ that were
current in the third and fourth decades of this century.[18] Two
worthy provincials write from the little town of La Ferté-sous-Jouarre
to the editor of the "Revue des Deux Mondes," appealing to him to
tell them what romanticism means.

For two years Dupuis and his friend Cotonet had supposed that
the term applied only to the theater, and signified the
disregard of the unities. "Shakspere, for example makes people
travel from Rome to London, and from Athens to Alexandria
in a quarter of an hour. His heroes live ten or twenty years
between two acts.

His heroines, angels of virtue during a whole scene, have only to
pass into the _coulisses_, to reappear as wives, adulteresses,
widows, and grandmothers.

There, we said to ourselves, is the romantic.

Contrariwise, Sophocles makes Oedipus sit on a rock, even at the
cost of great personal inconvenience, from the very beginning of
his tragedy.

All the characters come there to find him, one after the other.

Perhaps he stands up occasionally, though I doubt it; unless, it
may be, out of respect for Theseus, who, during the entire play,
obligingly walks on the high-way, coming in or going out continually.
. .

There, we said to ourselves, is the classic."
But about 1828, continues the letter, "we learned that there were
romantic poetry and classical poetry, romantic novels and classical
novels, romantic odes and classical odes; nay, a single line, my
dear sir, a sole and solitary line of verse might be romantic or
classic, according as the humor took it.

When we received this intelligence, we could not close our
eyes all night. Two years of peaceful conviction had
vanished like a dream. All our ideas were turned topsy-turvy;
for it the rules of Aristotle were no longer the line of
demarcation which separated the literary camps, where was one
to find himself, and what was he to depend upon? How was one
to know, in reading a book, which school it belonged to? . .
. Luckily in the same year there appeared a famous preface,
which we devoured straightway[19]. . . This said very distinctly
that romanticism was nothing else than the alliance of the
playful and the serious, of the grotesque and the terrible, of the
jocose and the horrible, or in other words, if you prefer, of comedy
and tragedy."

This definition the anxious inquirers accepted for the space of a
year, until it was borne in upon them that Aristophanes--not to
speak of other ancients--had mixed tragedy and comedy in his drama.

Once again the friends were plunged in darkness, and their perplexity
was deepened when they were taking a walk one evening and overheard
a remark made by the niece of the _sous-prefet_.

This young lady had fallen in love with English ways, as
was--somewhat strangely--evidenced by her wearing a green veil,
orange-colored gloves, and silver-rimmed spectacles.

As she passed the promenaders, she turned to look at a water-mill
near the ford, where there were bags of grain, geese, and an ox in
harness, and she exclaimed to her governess, "_Voilà un site
romantique_."

This mysterious sentence roused the flagging curiosity of MM.

Dupuis and Contonet, and they renewed their investigations.

A passage in a newspaper led them to believe for a time that
romanticism was the imitation of the Germans, with, perhaps, the
addition of the English and Spanish.

Then they were tempted to fancy that it might be merely a
matter of literary form, possibly this _vers brisé_ (run-over
lines, _enjambement_) that they are making so much noise about.

"From 1830 to 1831 we were persuaded that romanticism was the
historic style (_genre historique_) or, if you please, this
mania which has lately seized our authors for calling the characters
of their novels and melodramas Charlemagne, Francis I., or Henry
IV., instead of Amadis, Oronte, or saint-Albin. . .

From 1831 to the year following we thought it was the _genre
intime,_ about which there was much talk.

But with all the pains that we took we never could discover
what the _genre intime_ was.

The 'intimate' novels are just like the others. They are
in two volume octavo, with a great deal of margin. . . They
have yellow covers and they cost fifteen francs."

From 1832 to 1833 they conjectured that romanticism might
be a system of philosophy and political economy. From 1833 to
1834 they believed that it consisted in not shaving one's self,
and in wearing a waistcoat with wide facings very much starched.

At last they bethink themselves of a certain lawyer's
clerk, who had first imported these literary disputes into the
village, in 1824.

To him, they expose their difficulties and ask for an answer to the
question, What is romanticism?

After a long conversation, they receive this final definition.
"Romanticism, my dear sir! No, of a surety, it is neither the
disregard of the unities, nor the alliance of the comic and tragic,
nor anything in the world expressible by words.

In vain you grasp the butterfly's wing; the dust which gives
it its color is left upon your fingers.

Romanticism is the star that weeps, it is the wind that wails, it
is the night that shudders, the bird that flies and the flower that
breathes perfume: it is the sudden gush, the ecstasy grown faint,
the cistern beneath the palms, rosy hope with her thousand loves,
the angel and the pearl, the white robe of the willows.

It is the infinite and the starry," etc., etc.

Then M.

Ducoudray, a magistrate of the department, gives his theory of
romanticism, which he considers to be an effect of the religious
and political reaction under the restored Bourbon monarchy of Louis
XVIII, and Charles X.

"The mania for ballads, arriving from Germany, met the
legitimist poetry one fine day at Ladvocat's bookshop; and the two
of them, pickax in hand, went at nightfall to a churchyard, to dig
up the Middle Ages."

The taste for medievalism, M. Ducoudray adds, has survived
the revolution of 1830, and romanticism has even entered into the
service of liberty and progress, where it is a manifest anachronism,
"employing the style of Ronsard to celebrate railroads, and imitating
Dante when it chants the praises of Washington and Lafayette."

Dupuis was tempted to embrace M.

Ducoudray's explanation, but Cotonet was not satisfied.
He shut himself in, for four months, at the end of which he announced
his discovery that the true and only difference between the classic
and the romantic is that the latter uses a good many adjectives.

He illustrates his principle by giving passages from "Paul
and Virginia" and the "Portuguese Letters," written in the romantic
style.

Thus Musset pricks a critical bubble with the point of his
satire; and yet the bubble declines to vanish. There must
really be some more substantial difference than this between
classic and romantic, for the terms persist and are found
useful. It may be true that the romantic temper, being
subjective and excited, tends to an excess in adjectives;
the adjective being that part of speech which attributes
qualities, and is therefore most freely used by emotional
persons. Still it would be possible to cut out all the
adjectives, not strictly necessary, from one of Tieck's
_Märchen_ without in the slightest degree disturbing its romantic
character.

It remains to add that romanticism is a word which faces in two
directions.

exclaimed the good lady, standing and
eyeing it in a sort of desperate concern, as if she would
willingly have gone up the flue herself, so that only she
could thereby have secured the smoke's doing the same. "I
always knew that chimney was bad -- I had it once a while
myself -- I'm sorry you've got it now. What _do_ you do, Mr.
Winthrop?"

"The smoke and I take turns in going out, Mrs. Nettley."

"Eh? -- Does it often come in so? Can't you help it?"

"It generally takes advice with the wind, not with me, ma'am."

"But the chimney might have better advice. I'll get George to
fetch a doctor -- I had forgotten it was so bad, I had quite
forgotten it, and you never say a word -- Mr. Landholm, you
never come to see us."

"I have so much else to see," he said, glancing at his book.

"Yes, and that reminds me -- Have you heard the news?"

"I have heard none to-day."

"Then you heard it yesterday, -- of course you did; but I hear
so little, when anything comes to me that's new I always think
it must be new to everybody else. But of course _you_ must know
it, as it is about friends of yours; I dare say you knew it
long ago; -- though such things are kept close sometimes, even
from friends; and I somehow was surprised to hear this, though
I had no right to be, for I suppose I had no reason for my
fancy. I think a good many things I have no reason for, George
thinks. Maybe I do. I cant help it."

"But what is the thing in this case, Mrs. Nettley?" said
Winthrop smiling.

"Why George told me -- don't you know? I was a little
disappointed, Mr. Winthrop."

"Why?"

"Why, I had a fancy things were going another way."

"I don't know what you are talking about."

"That's because I talk so ill -- It's this piece of news George
brought home yesterday -- he was dining out, for a wonder, with
this gentleman who is going to sit to him; I forget his name,
-- Mr. -- I don't know what it is! -- but I am foolish to talk
about it. Won't you come down and take a cup of tea with us
to-night, Mr. Landholm? that's what I came up to ask, and not
to stand interrupting you. But you've quite forgotten us
lately."

"Thank you, Mrs. Nettley, I'll come with great pleasure -- on
condition that you tell me your news."

"The news? O it's no news to you -- it's only this about Miss
Haye."

"What about Miss Haye?"

"They say that she is going to get married, to a Mr.
Cadwallader, George said. Her cousin I suppose; there is a
cousinship of that name, isn't there, Mr. Landholm?"

Mr. Landholm bowed.

"And had you heard of it before?"

"No, I had not."

"And is it a good match? She is a fine girl, isn't she?"

"I know really nothing of the matter, Mrs. Nettley -- I have
never seen the gentleman."

"Really! Haven't you? -- then it _was_ news," said the lady. "I
thought you were accustomed to see them so often -- I didn't
think I was telling you anything. George and I -- you must
forgive us, Mr. Winthrop, people will have such thoughts; they
will come in, and you cannot help it -- I don't know what's to
keep 'em out, unless one could put bars and gates upon one's
minds, and you can't well do that; -- but George and I used to
have suspicions of you, Mr. Landholm. Well, I have interrupted
you long enough. Dear! what windows! I'm ashamed. I'll send
the girl up, the first chance you are out of the house. I told
her to come up too; but she is heedless. I haven't been to see
'em myself in I don't know how many days; but you're always so
terribly busy -- and now I've staid twice too long!" --

And away she hurried, softly closing the door after her.

Mr. Landholm's quiet study was remarkably quiet for a good
while after she went out. No leaf of his book rustled over;
not a foot of his chair grated on the floor, -- for though the
floor did boast a bit of carpet, it lay not where he sat, by
the window; and the coals and firebrands fell noiselessly down
into the ashes and nobody was reminded that the fire would
burn itself out in time if it was let alone. The morning light
grew stronger, and the sunbeams that never got there till
between nine and ten o'clock, walked into the room; and they
found Winthrop Landholm with his elbow on the table and his
head in his hand, where they often were; but with his eyes
where they _not_ often were -- on the floor. The sunbeams said
very softly that it was time to be at the office, but they
said it very softly, and Winthrop did not hear them.

He heard however presently a footstep on the stair, in the
next story at first, and then mounting the uppermost flight
that led to the attic. A heavy brisk energetic footstep, -- not
Mrs. Nettley's soft and slow tread, nor the more deliberate
one of her brother. Winthrop listened a moment, and then as
the last impatient creak of the boot stopped at his threshold
he knew who would open the door. It was Rufus.

"_Here_ you are. Why I expected to find you at the office!" was
the first cheery exclamation, after the brothers had clasped
hands.

"What did you come here to find, then?" said Winthrop.

"Room for my carpet-bag, in the first place; and a pair of
slippers, and comfort. It's stinging weather, Governor!"

"I know it. I came down the river the night before last."

"I shouldn't think you knew it, for you've let your fire go
down confoundedly. Why Winthrop! there's hardly a spark here!
What have you been thinking about?"

"I was kindling the fire, mentally," said Winthrop.

"Mentally! -- where's your kindling? -- I can tell you! -- if you
had been out in this air you'd want some breath of material
flame, before you could set any other agoing. And I am afraid
_this_ isn't enough -- or won't be, -- I want some fuel for
another sort of internal combustion -- some of my Scotchman's
haggis."

And Rufus stopped to laugh, with a very funny face, in the
midst of his piling chips and brands together.

"Haggis?" said Winthrop.

"Yes. -- There was a good fellow of a Scotchman in the stage
with me last night -- he had the seat just behind me -- and he
and a brother Scotchman were discoursing valiantly of old
world things; warming themselves up with the recollection. --
Winthrop, have you got a bit of paper here? -- And I heard the
word 'haggis' over and over again, --'haggis' and 'parritch.'
At last I turned round gravely -- 'Pray sir,' said I, 'what _is_
a haggis?' 'Weel, sir,' said he good-humouredly, -- 'I don't
just know the ingredients -- it's made of meal, -- and onions, I
believe, --and other combustibles!!' -- Winthrop, have you got
any breakfast in the house?"

"Not much in the combustible line, I am afraid," said
Winthrop, putting up his books and going to the closet.

"Well if you can enact Mother Hubbard and 'give a poor dog a
bone,' I shall be thankful, -- for anything."

"I am afraid hunger has perverted your memory," said Winthrop.

"How?"

"If the cupboard should play its part now, the dog would go
without any."

"O you'll do better for me than that, I hope," said Rufus;
"for I couldn't go on enacting the dog's part long; he took to
laughing, if I remember, and I should be beyond that
directly."

"Does that ever happen?" said Winthrop, as he brought out of
the cupboard his bits of stores; a plate with the end of a
loaf of bread, a little pitcher of milk, and another plate
with some remains of cold beefsteak. For all reply, Rufus
seized upon a piece of bread, to begin with, and thrusting a
fork into the beefsteak, he held it in front of the just-
burning firebrands. Winthrop stood looking on, while Rufus,
the beefsteak, and the smoke, seemed mutually intent upon each
other. It was a question of time, and patience; not to speak
of fortitude.

"Winthrop," said Rufus changing hands with his fork, -- "have
you any coffee?"

"No sir."

"Tea?"

"No."

"Out of both?"

"For some time."

"Do you live without it?"

"I live without it."

"Without either of them?"

"Without either of them."

"Then how in the world _do_ you live?" said Rufus turning his
beefsteak in a very gingerly manner and not daring to take his
eyes from it.

"Without combustibles -- as I told you."

"I should think so!" exclaimed his brother. "You are the
coolest, toughest, most stubborn and unimpressible piece of
sensibility, that ever lived in a garret and deserved to live
-- somewhere else."

"Doubtful strain of commendation," said Winthrop. "What has
brought you to Mannahatta?"

"But Winthrop, this is a new fancy of yours?"

"No, not very."

"How long since?"

"Since what?"

"Since you gave up all the good things of this life?"

"A man can only give up what he has," said Winthrop. "Those I
delivered into your hands some ten minutes ago."

"But tea and coffee -- You used to drink them?"

"Yes."

"Why don't you?"

"For a variety of reasons, satisfactory to my own mind."

"And have you abjured butter too?"

"I am sorry, Will," said Winthrop smiling a little, -- "I will
try to have some butter for you to-morrow."

"Don't you eat it in ordinary?"

"Always, when I can get it. What has brought you to
Mannahatta?"

"What do you think?"

"Some rash scheme or resolution."

"Why?"

"From my judgment of your character, which might be stated as
the converse of that just now so happily applied to me."

"And do natures the opposite of that never act otherwise than
rashly?"

"I hope so; for as the coolest are sometimes excited, so the
hot may be sometimes cool."

Carew Hazlitt, with many additions, by the editor and by well-known
English scholars like Madden, Skeat, Furnivall, Morris, and Thomas
and Aldis Wright.

It should never be forgotten, in estimating the value of Warton's
work, that he was a forerunner in this field.

Much of his learning is out of date, and the modern editors
of his history--Price and Hazlitt--seem to the discouraged
reader to be chiefly engaged, in their footnotes and
bracketed interpellations, in taking back statements that Warton
had made in the text.

The leading position, _e.g._, of his preliminary dissertation, "Of
the Origin of Romantic Fiction in Europe"--deriving it from the
Spanish Arabs--has long since been discredited.

But Warton's learning was wide, if not exact; and it was not dry
learning, but quickened by the spirit of a genuine man of letters.

Therefore, in spite of its obsoleteness in matters of fact, his
history remains readable, as a body of descriptive criticism, or
a continuous literary essay.

The best way to read it is to read it as it was written--in
the original edition--disregarding the apparatus of notes, which
modern scholars have accumulated about it, but remembering that it
is no longer an authority and probably needs correcting on every
page.

Read thus, it is a thoroughly delightful book, "a classic in its
way," as Lowell has said.

Southey, too, affirmed that its publication formed an epoch
in literary history; and that, with Percy's "Reliques," it had
promoted, beyond any other work, the "growth of a better taste
than had prevailed for the hundred years preceding."

Gray had schemed a history of English poetry, but relinquished the
design to Warton, to whom he communicated an outline of his own plan.

The "Observations on English Metre" and the essay on the poet
Lydgate, among Gray's prose remains, are apparently portions of
this projected work.

Lowell, furthermore, pronounces Joseph Warton's "Essay on the Genius
and Writings of Pope" (1756) "the earliest public official declaration
of war against the reigning mode."

The new school had its critics, as well as its poets,
and the Wartons were more effective in the former capacity.

The war thus opened was by no means as internecine as that waged
by the French classicists and romanticists of 1830.

It has never been possible to get up a very serious
conflict in England, upon merely aesthetic grounds. Yet the
same opposition existed.

Warton's biographer tells us that the strictures made upon his essay
were "powerful enough to damp the ardor of the essayist, who left
his work in an imperfect state for the long space of twenty-six
years," _i.e._, till 1782, when he published the second volume.

Both Wartons were personal friends of Dr. Johnson; they were
members of the Literary Club and contributors to the _Idler_
and the _Adventurer_.
Thomas interested himself to get Johnson the Master's degree
from Oxford, where the doctor made him a visit. Some
correspondence between them is given in Boswell.

Johnson maintained in public a respectful attitude toward the
critical and historical work of the Wartons; but he had no sympathy
with their antiquarian enthusiasm or their liking for old English
poetry.

In private he ridiculed Thomas' verses, and summed them up in the
manner ensuing:
"Whereso'er I turn my view, All is strange yet nothing new; Endless
labor all along, Endless labor to be wrong; Phrase that time has
flung away, Uncouth words in disarray, Tricked in antique ruff and
bonnet, Ode and elegy and sonnet."

And although he added, "Remember that I love the fellow dearly, for
all I laugh at him," this saving clause failed to soothe the poet's
indignant breast, when he heard that the doctor had ridiculed his
lines.

An estrangement resulted which Johnson is said to have spoken
of even with tears, saying "that Tom Warton was the only man
of genius he ever knew who wanted a heart."

Goldsmith, too, belonged to the conservative party, though Mr.

Perry[12] detects romantic touches in "The Deserted Village,"
such as the line,
"Where wild Altama murmurs to their woe,"
or

"On Torno's cliffs or Pambamarca's side."

In his "Enquiry into the Present State of Polite Learning" (1759)
Goldsmith pronounces the age one of literary decay; he deplores the
vogue of blank verse--which he calls an "erroneous innovation"--and
the "disgusting solemnity of manner" that it has brought into
fashion.

He complains of the revival of old plays upon the stage.

"Old pieces are revived, and scarcely any new ones admitted. . .

The public are again obliged to ruminate over those ashes of absurdity
which were disgusting to our ancestors even in an age of ignorance.
. .

What must be done?

Only sit down contented, cry up all that comes before us and advance
even the absurdities of Shakspere.

Let the reader suspend his censure; I admire the beauties of
this great father of our stage as much as they deserve,
but could wish, for the honor of our country, and for his own too,
that many of his scenes were forgotten.

A man blind of one eye should always be painted in profile.

Let the spectator who assists at any of these new revived pieces
only ask himself whether he would approve such a performance, if
written by a modern poet.

I fear he will find that much of his applause proceeds merely from
the sound of a name and an empty veneration for antiquity.

In fact, the revival of those _pieces of forced humor,
far-fetched conceit and unnatural hyperbole which have been
ascribed to Shakspere_, is rather gibbeting than raising a
statue to his memory."

The words that I have italicized make it evident that what Goldsmith
was really finding fault with was the restoration of the original
text of Shakspere's plays, in place of the garbled versions that
had hitherto been acted.

This restoration was largely due to Garrick, but Goldsmith's language
implies that the reform was demanded by public opinion and by the
increasing "veneration for antiquity."

The next passage shows that the new school had its _claque_, which
rallied to the support of the old British drama as the French
romanticists did, nearly a century later, to the support of Victor
Hugo's _melodrames_.[13]
"What strange vamped comedies, farcical tragedies, or what shall I
call them--speaking pantomimes have we not of late seen?.

. . The piece pleases our critics because it talks Old English;
and it pleases the galleries because it has ribaldry. . . A
prologue generally precedes the piece, to inform us that it was
composed by Shakspere or old Ben, or somebody else who took them
for his model.

A face of iron could not have the assurance to avow dislike; the
theater has its partisans who understand the force of combinations
trained up to vociferation, clapping of hands and clattering of
sticks; and though a man might have strength sufficient to overcome
a lion in single combat, he may run the risk of being devoured by
an army of ants."

Goldsmith returned to the charge in "The Vicar of Wakefield" (1766),
where Dr.

Primrose, inquiring of the two London dames, "who were the present
theatrical writers in vogue, who were the Drydens and Otways of the
day," is surprised to learn that Dryden and Rowe are quite out of
fashion, that taste has gone back a whole century, and that "Fletcher,
Ben Jonson and all the plays of Shakspere are the only things that
go down."

"How," cries the good vicar, "is it possible the present age can
be pleased with that antiquated dialect, that obsolete humor, those
overcharged characters which abound in the works you mention?"

Goldsmith's disgust with this affectation finds further vent in his
"Life of Parnell" (1770).

"He [Parnell] appears to me to be the last of that great school
that had modeled itself upon the ancients, and taught English poetry
to resemble what the generality of mankind have allowed to excel. . .

His productions bear no resemblance to those tawdry things which
it has, for some time, been the fashion to admire. . .

His poetical language is not less correct than his subjects are
pleasing.

He found it at that period in which it was brought to its highest
pitch of refinement; and ever since his time, it has been gradually
debasing.

It is, indeed, amazing, after what has been done by Dryden, Addison,
and Pope, to improve and harmonize our native tongue, that their
successors should have taken so much pains to involve it into
pristine barbarity.

These misguided innovators have not been content with restoring
antiquated words and phrases, but have indulged themselves in the
most licentious transpositions and the harshest constructions;
vainly imagining that, the more their writings are unlike prose,
the more they resemble poetry.

They have adopted a language of their own, and call upon
mankind for admiration. All those who do not understand them
are silent; and those who make out their meaning are willing to
praise, to show they understand."

This last sentence is a hit at the alleged obscurity of Gray's
and Mason's odes.

To illustrate the growth of a retrospective habit in literature Mr.

Perry[14] quotes at length from an essay "On the Prevailing Taste
for the Old English Poets," by Vicesimus Knox, sometimes master of
Tunbridge school, editor of "Elegant Extracts" and honorary doctor
of the University of Pennsylvania.

Knox's essays were written while he was an Oxford undergraduate,
and published collectively in 1777.

By this time the romantic movement was in full swing.

"The Castle of Otranto" and Percy's "Reliques" had been out more
than ten years; many of the Rowley poems were in print; and in
this very year, Tyrwhitt issued a complete edition of them, and
Warton published the second volume of his "History of English
Poetry."

Chatterton and Percy are both mentioned by Knox.

"The antiquarian spirit," he writes, "which was once confined
to inquiries concerning the manners, the buildings, the records,
and the coins of the ages that preceded us, has now extended itself
to those poetical compositions which were popular among our
forefathers, but which have gradually sunk into oblivion through
the decay of language and the prevalence of a correct and polished
taste.

Books printed in the black letter are sought for with the same
avidity with which the English antiquary peruses a monumental
inscription, or treasures up a Saxon piece of money.

The popular ballad, composed by some illiterate minstrel, and which
has been handed down by tradition for several centuries, is rescued
from the hands of the vulgar, to obtain a place in the collection
of the man of taste.

Verses which, a few years past, were thought worthy the attention
of children only, or of the lowest and rudest orders, are now admired
for that artless simplicity which once obtained the name of coarseness
and vulgarity."

Early English poetry, continues the essayist, "has had its day, and
the antiquary must not despise us if we cannot peruse it with
patience.

He who delights in all such reading as is never read, may derive
some pleasure from the singularity of his taste, but he ought still
to respect the judgment of mankind, which has consigned to oblivion
the works which he admires.

While he pores unmolested on Chaucer, Gower, Lydgate, and Occleve,
let him not censure our obstinacy in adhering to Homer, Virgil,
Milton, and Pope. . .

Notwithstanding the incontrovertible merit of many of our ancient
relics of poetry, I believe it may be doubted whether any one of
them would be tolerated as the production of a modern poet.

As a good imitation of the ancient manner, it would find
its admirers; but, considered independently, as an original, it
would be thought a careless, vulgar, inartificial composition.

There are few who do not read Dr. Percy's own pieces, and
those of other late writers, with more pleasure than the oldest
ballad in the collection of that ingenious writer."

Mr.

Percy quotes another paper of Knox in which he divides the admirers
of English poetry into two parties: "On one side are the lovers and
imitators of Spenser and Milton; and on the other, those of Dryden,
Boileau, and Pope"; in modern phrase, the romanticists and the
classicists.

Joseph Warton's "Essay on Pope" was an attempt to fix
its subject's rank among English poets. Following the
discursive method of Thomas Warton's "Observations on
the Faerie Queen," it was likewise an elaborate commentary on all
of Pope's poems _seriatim_.

Every point was illustrated with abundant learning, and there were
digressions amounting to independent essays on collateral topics:
one, _e.g._, on Chaucer, one on early French Metrical romances;
another on Gothic architecture:
another on the new school of landscape gardening, in which Walpole's
essay and Mason's poem are quoted with approval, and mention is
made of the Leasowes.

The book was dedicated to Young; and when the second volume was
published in 1782, the first was reissued in a revised form and
introduced by a letter to the author from Tyrwhitt, who writes that,
under the shelter of Warton's authority, "one may perhaps venture
to avow an opinion that poetry is not confined to rhyming couplets,
and that its greatest powers are not displayed in prologues and
epilogues."

The modern reader will be apt to think Warton's estimate of Pope
quite high enough. He places him, to be sure, in the second
rank of poets, below Spenser, Shakspere, and Milton, yet next to
Milton and above Dryden; and he calls the reign of Queen Anne the
great age of English poetry.

Yet if it be recollected that the essay was published only twelve
years after Pope's death, and at a time when he was still commonly
held to be, if not the greatest poet, at least the greatest artist
in verse, that England had ever produced, it will be seen that
Warton's opinions might well be thought revolutionary, and his
challenge to the critics a bold one.

These opinions can be best exhibited by quoting a few passages from
his book, not consecutive, but taken here and there as best suits
the purpose.

"The sublime and the pathetic are the two chief nerves of all
genuine poesy. What is there transcendently sublime or pathetic
in Pope?. . .

He early left the more poetical provinces of his art, to
become a moral, didactic, and satiric poet. . . And because
I am, perhaps, unwilling to speak out in plain English, I will
adopt the following passage of Voltaire, which, in my opinion, as
exactly characteristizes Pope as it does his model, Boileau, for
whom it was originally designed.

'Incapable peut-être du sublime qui élève l'áme, et du sentiment
qui l'attendrit, mais fait pour éclairer ceux à qui la nature
accorda l'un et l'autre; laborieux, sévère, précis, pur, harmonieux,
il devint enfin le poëte de la Raison.'. . .

A clear head and acute understanding are not sufficient alone to
make a poet; the most solid observations on human life, expressed
with the utmost elegance and brevity, are morality and not poetry.
. .

It is a creative and glowing imagination, _acer spiritus ac vis_,
and that alone, that can stamp a writer with this exalted and very
uncommon character."

Warton believes that Pope's projected epic on Brutus, the legendary
found of Britain, "would have more resembled the 'Henriade' than
the 'Iliad,' or even the 'Gierusalemme Liberata'; that it would
have appeared (if this scheme had been executed) how much, and for
what reasons, the man that is skillful in painting modern life, and
the most secret foibles and follies of his contemporaries, is,
THEREFORE, disqualified for representing the ages of heroism, and
that simple life which alone epic poetry can gracefully describe. . .

Wit and satire are transitory and perishable, but nature
and passion are eternal."

The largest portion of Pope's work, says the author's
closing summary, "is of the didactic, moral, and satiric kind;
and consequently not of the most poetic species of poetry;
when it is manifest that good sense and judgment were his
characteristical excellencies, rather than fancy and invention. . .

He stuck to describing modern manners; but those manners, because
they are familiar, uniform, artificial, and polished, are in
their very nature, unfit for any lofty effort of the Muse. He
gradually became one of the most correct, even, and exact
poets that ever wrote. . . Whatever poetical enthusiasm he
actually possessed, he withheld and stifled. The perusal of
him affects not our minds with such strong emotions as we
feel from Homer and Milton; so that no man of a true
poetical spirit is master of himself while he reads them. . . He
who would think the 'Faerie Queene,' 'Palamon and Arcite,'
the 'Tempest' or 'Comus,' childish and romantic might
relish Pope. Surely it is no narrow and niggardly encomium
to say, he is the great poet of Reason, the first of ethical
authors in verse."
To illustrate Pope's inferiority in the poetry of nature and
passion, Warton quotes freely by way of contrast, not only
from Spenser and Milton, but from such contemporaries of his
own as Thomson, Akenside, Gray, Collins, Dyer, Mason, West,
Shenstone, and Bedingfield.

He complains that Pope's "Pastorals" contains no new image of
nature, and his "Windsor Forest" no local color; while "the
scenes of Thomson are frequently as wild and romantic as
those of Salvator Rosa, varied with precipices and torrents and
'castled cliffs' and deep valleys, with piny mountains and the
gloomiest caverns."

"When Gray published his exquisite ode on Eton College . . .
little notice was taken of it; but I suppose no critic can
be found that will not place it far above Pope's 'Pastorals.'"

A few additional passages will serve to show that this critic's
literary principles, in general, were consciously and polemically
romantic.

"I am sure it is a trifle whether I look one way or another,
Mr. Herder," said Elizabeth, laughing a little.

"Ozer people do not think so," said the naturalist.

"Besides, it is not true, that I fear nothing and care for
nothing."

"But then you do not want to tell everybody what you do
think," said the naturalist.

"I don't care much about it!" said Elizabeth. "I think that is
a trifle, Mr. Herder."

"Which is?" -- said the naturalist.

"What people think about me."

"You do not think so?"

"I do."

"I am sorry," said the naturalist.

"Why?"

"It is not goot, for people to not care what ozer people
thinks about them."

"Why isn't it good? I think it is. I am sure it is
comfortable."

"It shews they have a mind to do something what ozer people
will not like."

"Very well! --"

"Dat is not goot."

"Maybe it is good, Mr. Herder. People are not always right in
their expectations."

"It is better to go smooth wiz people," said the naturalist
shaking his head a little.

"Or without them," said Elizabeth.

"Question, can you do that?" said Rufus.

"What?" said his brother.

"Live smoothly, or live at all, without regard to other
people."

"It is of the world at large I was speaking," said Elizabeth.
"Of course there are some few, a very few, whose word -- and
whose thought -- one would care for and strive for, -- that is
not what I mean."

"And who are those few fine persons?" said Mr. Herder
significantly.

"He is unhappy that doesn't know one or two," Elizabeth
answered with infinite gravity.

"And the opinions of the rest of men you would despise?" said
Rufus.

"Utterly! -- so far as they trenched upon my freedom of
action."

"You can't live so," said Rufus shaking his head.

"I _will_ live so, if I live at all."

"Wint'rop, you do not say nozing," said the naturalist.

"What need, sir?"

"Dere is always need for everybody to say what he thinks,"
said Mr. Herder. "Here we have all got ourselves in a puzzle,
and we don't know which way we stand."

"I am afraid every man must get out of that puzzle for
himself, sir."

"Is it a puzzle at all?" said Elizabeth facing round upon him.

"Not when you have got out of it."

"Well, what's the right road out of it?"

"Break through everything in the way," said Rufus. "That seems
to be the method in favour."

"What do you think is the _right_ way?" Elizabeth repeated
without looking at the last speaker.

"If you set your face in the right quarter, there is always a
straight road out in that direction," Winthrop answered with a
little bit of a smile.

"Doesn't that come pretty near my rule?" said Elizabeth with a
smile much broader.

"I think not. If I understood, your rule was to make a
straight road out for yourself in any direction."

Elizabeth laughed and coloured a little, with no displeased
expression. The laugh subsided and her face became very grave
again as the gentlemen made their parting bows.

The brothers walked home in silence, till they had near
reached their own door.

"How easily you make a straight way for yourself anywhere!"
Rufus said suddenly and with half a breath of a sigh.

"What do you mean?" said Winthrop starting.

"You always did."

"What?"

"What you pleased."

"Well?" said Winthrop smiling.

"You may do it now. And will to the end of your life."

"Which seems to afford you somehow a gloomy prospect of
contemplation," said his brother.

"Well -- it does -- and it should."

"I should like to hear you state your premises and draw your
conclusion."

Rufus was silent and very sober for a little while. At last he
said,

"Your success and mine have always been very different, in
everything we undertook."

"Not in everything," said Winthrop.

"Well -- in almost everything."

"You say I do whatever I please. The difficulty with you
sometimes, Will, is that you do not 'please' hard enough."

"It would be difficult for anybody to rival you in that,"
Rufus said with a mingling of expression, half ironical and
half bitter. "You please so 'hard' that nobody else has a
chance."

To which Winthrop made no answer.

"I am not sorry for it, Governor," Rufus said just as they
reached their door, and with a very changed and quiet tone.

To which also Winthrop made no answer except by a look.


CHAPTER XXIV.


I watch thee from the quiet shore;
Thy spirit up to mine can reach;
But in dear words of human speech
We two communicate no more.
TENNYSON.


Mrs. Nettley was putting the finishing touches to her
breakfast -- that is, to her breakfast in prospect. A dish of
fish and the coffee-pot stood keeping each other cheerful on
one side the hearth; and Mrs. Nettley was just, with some
trouble, hanging a large round griddle over the blazing fire.
Her brother stood by, with his hands on his sides, and a
rather complacent face.

"What's that flap-jack going on for?"

"For something I like, if you don't," said his sister. "George
--"

Mrs Nettley stopped while her iron ladle was carefully
bestowing large spoonfuls of batter all round the griddle.

"What?" said Mr. Inchbald, when it was done.

"Somebody up-stairs likes 'em. Don't you suppose you could get
Mr. Landholm to come down. He likes 'em, and he don't get 'em
now-a-days -- nor too much of anything that's good. I don't
know what he _does_ live on, up there."

"Anything is better than those things," said her brother.

"Other people are more wise than you. Do go up and ask him,
will you, George? I hope he gets good dinners somewhere, for
it's very little of anything he cooks at that smoky little
fireplace of his. Do you ever see him bring anything in?"

"Nothing. I don't see him bring himself in, you know. But
he'll do. He'll have enough by and by, Dame Nettley. I know
what stuff he's of."

"Yes, but no stuff'll last without help," said Mrs. Nettley,
taking her cakes off the griddle and piling them up carefully.
"Now I'm all ready, George, and you're standing there -- it's
always the way -- and before you can mount those three pair of
stairs and down again, these'll be cold. Do go, George; Mr.
Landholm likes his cakes hot -- I'll have another plateful
ready before you'll be here; and then they're good for nothing
but to throw away."

"That's what I think," said Mr. Inchbald; "but I'll bring him
down if I can, to do what you like with 'em -- only I must see
first what this knocking wants at the front door."

"And left this one open too!" -- said Mrs. Nettley, -- "and now
the whole house'll be full of smoke and everything -- Well! -- I
might as well not ha' put this griddleful on." --

But the door having refused to latch, gave Mrs. Nettley a
chance to hear what was going on. She stood, slice in hand,
listening. Some unaccustomed tones came to her ear -- then Mr.
Inchbald's round hearty voice, saying,

"Yes sir -- he is here -- he is at home."

"I'd like to see him --"

And then the sounds of scraping feet entering the house.

"I'd like to go somewheres that I could see a fire, too," said
the strange voice. "Ben ridin' all night, and got to set off
again, you see, directly."

And Mrs. Nettley turned her cakes in a great hurry, as her
brother pushed open the door and let the intruder in.

He took off his hat as he came, shewing a head that had seen
some sixty winters, thinly dressed with yellow hair but not at
all grey. The face was strong and Yankee-marked with
shrewdness and reserve. His hat was wet and his shoulders,
which had no protection of an overcoat.

"Do you wish to see Mr. Landholm in his room?" said Mr.
Inchbald. "He's just coming down to breakfast."

"That'll do as well," said the stranger nodding. "And stop --
you may give him this -- maybe he'd as lieve have it up there."

Mr. Inchbald looked at the letter handed him, the outside of
which at least told no tales; but his sister with a woman's
quick instinct had already asked,

"Is anything the matter?"

"Matter?" -- said the stranger, -- "well, yes. -- He's wanted to
hum."

Both brother and sister stood now forgetting everything, both
saying in a breath,

"Wanted, what for?"

"Well -- there's sickness --"

"His father?"

"No, his mother."

Mrs. Nettley threw down her slice and ran out of the room. Mr.
Inchbald turned away slowly in the other direction. The
stranger, left alone, took a knife from the table and dished
the neglected cakes, and sat down to dry himself between them
and the coffee.

Mr. Inchbald slowly mounted the stairs to Winthrop's door, met
the pleasant face that met him there, and gave the letter.

"I was coming to ask you down to breakfast with us, Mr.
Landholm; but somebody has just come with that for you, and
wishes you to have it at once."

The pleasant face grew grave, and the seal was broken, and the
letter unfolded. It was a folio half sheet, of coarse
yellowish paper, near the upper end of which a very few lines
were irregularly written.


"My dear son

"It is with great pain I write to tell you that you must leave
all and hasten home if you would see your mother. Friend
Underhill will take this to you, and your shortest way will
be, probably, to hire a horse in M. and travel night and day;
as the time of the boat is uncertain and the stage does not
make very good time -- Her illness has been so short that we
did not know it was necessary to alarm you before. My dear
son, come without delay --

"Your father,

"W. Landholm."


Mr. Inchbald watched the face and manner of his friend as he
read, and after he read, these few words, -- but the one
expressed only gravity, the other, action. Mr. Inchbald felt
he could do nothing, and slowly went down stairs again to Mr.
Underhill. He found him still over the fire between the cakes
and the coffee. But Mr. Inchbald totally forgot to be
hospitable, and not a word was said till Winthrop came in and
he and the letter-bringer had wrung each other's hand, with a
brief 'how d' ye do.'

"How did you leave them, Mr. Underhill?"

"Well -- they were wantin' you pretty bad --"

"Did _she_ send for me?"

"Well -- no -- I guess not," said the other with something of
hesitancy, or of consideration, in his speech. Winthrop stood
silent a moment.

"I shall take horse immediately. You will go -- how?"

"May as well ride along with you," said Mr. Underhill,
settling his coat. "I'm wet -- a trifle -- but may as well ride
it off as any way. Start now?"

"Have you breakfasted?"

"Well -- no, I hain't had time, you see -- I come straight to
you."

"Mr. Inchbald, I must go to the office a few minutes -- will
you give my friend a mouthful?"

"But yourself, Mr. Landholm?"

"I have had breakfast."

Mr. Inchbald did his duty as host then; but though his guest
used despatch, the 'mouthful' was hardly a hungry man's
breakfast when Winthrop was back again. In a few minutes more
the two were mounted and on their way up the right bank of the
river.

They rode silently. At least if Mr. Underhill's wonted
talkativeness found vent at all, it was more than Winthrop was
able ever to recollect. He could remember nothing of the ride
but his own thoughts; and it seemed to him afterwards that
they must have been stunning as well as deafening; so vague
and so blended was the impression of them mixed up with the
impression of everything else. It was what Mr. Underhill
called 'falling weather'; the rain dropped lightly, or by
turns changing to mist hung over the river and wreathed itself
about the hills, and often stood across his path; as if to bid
the eye turn inward, for space to range without it might not
have. And passing all the other journeys he had made up and
down that road, some of them on horseback as he was now,
Winthrop's thoughts went back to that first one, when through
ill weather and discouragement he had left the home he was now
seeking, to enter upon his great-world career. Why did they
so? He had been that road in the rain since; he had been there
in all weathers; he had been there often with as desponding a
heart as brought him down that first time; which indeed did
not despond at all then, though it felt the weight of life's
undertakings and drawbacks. And the warm rain, and yellow,
sun-coloured mist of this April day, had no likeness to the
cold, pitiless, pelting December storm. Yet passing all the
times between, his mind went back constantly to that first
one. He felt over again, though as in a dream, its steps of
loneliness and heart-sinking -- its misty looking forward -- and
most especially that Bible word '_Now_' -- which his little
sister's finger had pointed out to him. He remembered how
constantly that day it came back to him in everything he
looked at, -- from the hills, from the river, from the beat of
the horses' hoofs, from the falling rain. 'Now' -- 'now' -- he
remembered how he had felt it that day; he had almost
forgotten it since; but now it came up again to his mind as if
that day had been but yesterday. What brought it there? Was it
the unrecognized, unallowed sense, that the one of all the
world who most longed to have him obey that word, might be to-
day beyond seeing him obey it -- for ever? Was it possibly,
that passing over the bridge of Mirza's vision he suddenly saw
himself by the side of one of the open trap-doors, and felt
that some stay, some security he needed, before his own foot
should open one for itself? He did not ask; he did not try to
order the confused sweep of feeling which for the time passed
over him; one dread idea for the time held mastery of all
others, and kept that day's ride all on the edge of that open
trap-door. Whose foot had gone down there? -- And under that
thought, -- woven in with the various tapestry of shower and
sunshine, meadow and hillside, that clothed his day's journey
to the sense, -- were the images of that day in December -- that
final leaving of home and his mother, that rainy cold ride on
the stage-coach, Winnie's open Bible, and the 'Now,' to which
her finger, his mother's prayers, and his own conscience, had
pointed all the day long.

It made no difference, that as they went on, this April day
changed from rain and mist to the most brilliant sunshine. The
mists rolled away, down the river and along the gulleys of the
mountains; the clouds scattered from off the blue sky, which
looked down clear, fair, and soft, as if Mirza's bridge were
never under it. The little puddles of water sparkled in the
sunshine and reflected the blue; the roads made haste to dry;
the softest of spring airs wafted down from the hill-sides a
spicy remembrance of budding shoots and the drawn-out
sweetness of pine and fir and hemlock and cedar. The day grew
sultrily warm. But though sunlight and spring winds carried
their tokens to memory's gates and left them there, they were
taken no note of at the time, by one traveller, and the other
had no mental apparatus fine enough to gather them up.

He had feeling or delicacy enough of another kind, however, to
keep him quiet. He sometimes looked at Winthrop; never spoke
to him. Almost never; if he spoke at all, it was in some aside
or counsel-taking with himself about the weather, the way, or
the prospect and management of the farming along the river.
They stopped only to bait or to rest their horses; even at
those times Mr. Underhill restrained himself not only from
talking to Winthrop but from talking before him; and except
when his companion was at a distance, kept as quiet as he.
Winthrop asked no questions.

The road grew hilly, and in some places rough, trying to the
horses; and by the time they were fairly among the mountain
land that stood down far south from Wut-a-qut-o, the sun was
nearing the fair broken horizon line of the western shore. The
miles were long now, when they were no longer many; the road
was more and more steep and difficult; the horses weary. The
sun travelled faster than they did. A gentler sunlight never
lay in spring-time upon those hills and river; it made the
bitter turmoil and dread of the way seem the more harsh and
ungentle. Their last stopping-place was at Cowslip's Mill -- on
the spot where seven years before, Winthrop had met the stage-
coach and its consignment of ladies.

"The horses must have a minute here -- and a bite," said Mr.
Underhill letting himself slowly down from his beast; -- "lose
no time by it."

For a change of posture Winthrop threw himself off, and stood
leaning on the saddle, while his travelling companion and Mr.
Cowslip came up the rise bringing water and food to the
horses. No more than a grave nod was exchanged between
Winthrop and his old neighbour; neither said one word; and as
soon as the buckets were empty the travellers were on their
way again.

It was but a little way now. The sun had gone behind the
mountain, the wind had died, the perfect stillness and
loveliness of evening light was over hill and river and the
home land, as the riders came out from the woods upon the foot
of the bay and saw it all before them. A cloudless sky, -- the
white clear western light where the sun had been, -- the bright
sleeping water, -- the sweet lights and shades on Wut-a-qut-o
and its neighbour hills, the lower and darker promontory
throwing itself across the landscape; and from one spot, that
half-seen centre of the picture, the little brown speck on
Shah-wee-tah, -- a thin, thin wreath of smoke slowly went up.
Winthrop for one moment looked, and then rode on sharply and
Mr. Underhill was fain to bear him company. They had rounded
the bay -- they had ridden over the promontory neck -- they were
within a little of home, -- when Winthrop suddenly drew bridle.
Mr. Underhill stopped. Winthrop turned towards him, and asked
the question not asked till then.

"How is it at home, Mr. Underhill?"

And Mr. Underhill without looking at him, answered in the same
tones, a moment of pause between,

"She's gone."

Winthrop's horse carried him slowly forward; Mr. Underhill's
was seen no more that night -- unless by Mr. Cowslip and his
son.

Slowly Winthrop's horse carried him forward -- but little time
then was needed to bring him round to the back of the house,
at the kitchen door, whither the horse-path led. It was
twilight now; the air was full of the perfume of cedars and
pines, -- the clear white light shone in the west yet. Winthrop
did not see it. He only saw that there was no light in the
windows. And that curl of thin smoke was the only thing he had
seen stirring about the house. He got off his horse and went
into the kitchen.

There was light enough to see who met him there. It was his
father. There was hardly light to see faces; but Mr. Landholm
laid both hands on his son's shoulders, saying,

"My dear boy! -- it's all over! --"

And Winthrop laid his face on his father's breast, and for a
few breaths, sobbed, as he had not done since -- since his
childish eyes had found hiding-place on that other breast that
could rest them no more.

It was but a few minutes; -- and manly sorrow had given way and
taken again its quiet self-control; once and for ever. The
father and son wrung each other's hands, the mute speech of
hand to hand telling of mutual suffering and endurance, and
affection, -- all that could be told; and then after the pause
of a minute; Winthrop moved on towards the family room, asking
softly, "Is she here?" -- But his father led him through, to
the seldom-used east-room.

Asahel was there; but he neither spoke nor stirred. And old
Karen was there, moving about on some trifling errand of duty;
but her quick nature was under less government; it did not
bear the sight of Winthrop. Dropping or forgetting what she
was about, she came towards him with a bursting cry of
feeling, half for herself, half sympathetic; and with the
freedom of old acquaintance and affection and common grief,
laid her shrivelled black hand on his shoulder and looked up
into his face, saying, almost as his father had done, but with
streaming eyes and quivering lips,

"My dear son! -- she has gone! After the formula of exorcism comes the "Lord's Prayer" (which is
given somewhat differently to our present version), winding up with
"i.
ii. iii. iiii. v. vi. vii. viii. ix. x."

On the other side is the following whimsical piece of composition:--

_"What more could be wished for, even by a literary gourmand
under the Tudors, than to be able to Read and Spell; To repeat
that holy charm before which fled all unholy Ghosts, Goblins, or
even the old Gentleman himself to the very bottom of the Red Sea,
and to say that immortal prayer, which secures heaven to all who
_ex animo_ use it, and those mathematical powers, by knowing units,
from which spring countless myriads

."_
Now for my "Query." Can any of your correspondents oblige
me with the probable date of this _literally_ literary treasure,
or refer me to any source of information on the
subject?

KENNETH R. H. MACKENZIE.

_Bacon_ (Vol. iii., p. 41.).--The explanation given in a
former number from old Verstegan, of the original meaning
of the family name of Bacon, and the application of the
word to the unclean beast, with the corroboration from the
pages of Collins's _Baronetage_, is very interesting. The
word, as applied to the salted flesh of the _dead_ animal, is
another instance of the introduction of a foreign term for a
_dead_ animal, in opposition to the Anglo-Saxon name of
the living animal. It was used in this sense in France at a
very early period; and Ampère, in his _Histoire Littéraire de
la France avant le 12ième Siècle_, iii. 482., mentions the
word among other instances of Gallicisms in the Latin of the
Carolingian diplomas and capitularies, and quotes the capitularies
of Charles the Fat.

_Bacco, porc salé,_ from the _vulgar_ word _bacon_, _jambon_.
The word was in use as late as the seventeenth century in
Dauphiné, and the bordering cantons of Switzerland, and is
cited in the _Moyen de Parvenir_, ch. 38. The passage is curious,
as it would seem to intimate that Lord Bacon was one of the
personages introduced in that very extraordinary production of the
Rabelaisian school.

I have frequently heard the word employed by the country people in
the markets of Geneva.

J. B. D.

_Lachrymatories_ (Vol. ii., pp. 326. 448.).--In illustration of
the question as to the _probable_ use of those small vases so
commonly found in sepulchral monuments, I extract the following
from _Wayfaring Sketches among the Greeks and Turks_. 2d edit.

Introduction, pp. 6, 7. London:
Chapman, 1849.

"The poorest of the sepulchres is certain to contain (in Greece)
at least a few of these beautiful vases, the lachrymatories,
&c

.
And the house had been quiet, very quiet, for long after
supper-time, when softly and cautiously one of the missing
ones opened the door of the east-room and half came in. Only
Karen sat there at the foot of the bed. Winnie came in and
came up to her.

"He's not here, darlin'," said the old woman, -- "and ye needn't
ha' started from him. -- O cold face, and white face! -- what
ha' you done with yourself, Winnie, to run away from him so?
Ye needn't ha' feared him. Poor lamb! -- poor white lamb! --"

The girl sat down on the floor and laid her face on Karen's
lap, where the still tears ran very fast.

"Poor white lamb!" said the old woman, tenderly laying her
wrinkled hand on Winnie's fair hair, -- "Ye haven't eat a crumb
-- Karen'll fetch you a bit? -- ye'll faint by the way --"

Winnie shook her head. "No -- no."

"What did you run away for?" Karen went on. "Ye run away from
your best comfort -- but the Lord's help, Winnie; -- he's the
strongest of us all."

But something in that speech, Karen could not divine what,
made Winnie sob convulsively; and she thought best to give up
her attempts at counsel or comforting.

The wearied and weakened child must have needed both, for she
wept unceasingly on Karen's knees till late in the night; and
then in sheer weariness the heavy eyelids closed upon the
tears that were yet ready to come. She slumbered, with her
head still on Karen's lap.

"Poor lamb!" said Karen when she found it out, bending over to
look at her, -- "poor lamb! -- she'll die of this if the
Governor can't help her, -- and she the Lord's child too. --
Maybe best, poor child! -- maybe best! -- 'Little traveller
Zion-ward' -- I wish we were all up at those gates, O Lord! --"

The last words were spoken with a heavy sigh, and then the old
woman changed her tone.

"Winnie! -- Winnie! -- go to bed -- go to bed! Your mother'd say
it if she was here."

Winnie raised her head and opened her eyes, and Karen
repeating her admonition in the same key, the child got up and
went mechanically out of the room, as if to obey it.

It was by this time very late in the night; the rest of the
inmates of the house had long been asleep. No lights were
burning except in the room she had left. But opening the door
of the kitchen, through which her way lay to her own room,
Winnie found there was a glimmer from the fire, which usually
was covered up close; and coming further into the room, she
saw some one stretched at full length upon the floor at the
fireside. Another step, and Winnie knew it was Winthrop. He
was asleep, his head resting on a rolled-up cloak against the
jamb. Winnie's tears sprang forth again, but she would not
waken him. She kneeled down by his side, to look at him, as
well as the faint fireglow would let her, and to weep over
him; but her strength was worn out. It refused even weeping;
and after a few minutes, nestling down as close to him as she
could get, she laid one arm and her head upon his breast and
went to sleep too. More peacefully and quietly than she had
slept for several nights.

The glimmer from the fire-light died quite away, and only the
bright stars kept watch over them. The moon was not where she
could look in at those north or east kitchen windows. But by
degrees the fair April night changed. Clouds gathered
themselves up from all quarters of the horizon, till they
covered the sky; the faces of the stars were hid; thunder
began to roll along among the hills, and bright incessant
flashes of white lightning kept the room in a glare. The
violence of the storm did not come over Shah-wee-tah, but it
was more than enough to rouse Winthrop, whose sleep was not so
deep as his little sister's. And when Winnie did come to her
consciousness she found herself lifted from the floor and on
her brother's lap; he half sitting up; his arms round her, and
her head still on his breast. Her first movement of awakening
was to change her position and throw her arms around his neck.

"Winnie --" he said gently.

The flood-gates burst then, and her heart poured itself out,
her head alternately nestling in his neck and raised up to
kiss his face, and her arms straining him with nervous
eagerness.

"O Winthrop! -- O Winthrop! -- O dear Winthrop! --" was the cry,
as fast as sobs and kisses would let her.

"Winnie --" said her brother again.

"O Winthrop! -- why didn't you come!"

He did not answer that, except by the heaving breast which
poor Winnie could not feel.

"I am here now, dear Winnie."

"O Winthrop! --" Winnie hesitated, and the burden of her heart
would burst forth, -- "why aren't you a Christian! --"

It was said with a most bitter rush of tears, as if she felt
that the most precious thing she had, lacked of preciousness;
that her most sure support needed a foundation. But when a
minute had stilled the tears, and she could hear, she heard
him say, very calmly,

"I am one, Winnie."

Her tears ceased absolutely on his shoulder, and Winnie was
for a moment motionless. Then as he did not speak again, she
unclasped her arms and drew back her head to look at him. The
constant flashes of light gave her chance enough.

"You heard me right," he said.

"Are you?" -- she said wistfully.

"By God's help -- this night and for ever."

Winnie brought her hands together, half clapping, half
clasping them, and then threw them to their former position
around his neck, exclaiming, --

"Oh if _she_ had known it before --!"

There was no answer to that, of words; and Winnie could not
see the sudden paleness which witnessed to the answer within.
But it came, keen as those lightning flashes, home-thrust as
the thunderbolts they witnessed to, that his 'now' had come
too late for her.

The lightnings grew fainter, and failed -- the thunder muttered
off in the distance, and ceased to be heard -- the clouds
rolled down the river and scattered away, just as the dawn was
breaking on Wut-a-qut-o. There had been nothing spoken in the
farmhouse kitchen since Winnie's last words. Winthrop was busy
with his own thoughts, which he did not tell; and Winnie had
been giving hers all the expression they could bear, in tears
and kisses and the strong clasp of her weak arm, and the
envious resting, trusting, lay of her head upon Winthrop's
shoulder and breast. When the glare of the lightning had all
gone, and the grey light was beginning to walk in at the
windows, her brother spoke to her.

"Winnie, -- you would be better in bed."

"Oh no, -- I wouldn't. -- Do you want me to go, Governor?" she
added presently.

"Not if you could rest as well here, but you want rest,
Winnie."

"I couldn't rest so well _anywhere!_" -- said Winifred
energetically.

"Then let me take the big chair and give you a chance."

He took it, and took her in his arms again, where she nestled
herself down as if she had been a child; with an action that
touchingly told him anew that she could rest so well nowhere
else.

"Governor --" she said, when her head had found its place --
"you haven't kissed me."

"I did, Winnie, -- it must have been before you were awake."

But he kissed her again; and drawing one or two long breaths,
of heart-weariness and heart-rest, Winnie went to sleep.

The grey dawn brightened rapidly; and a while after, Karen
came in. It was fair morning then. She stood by the hearth,
opposite the two, looking at them.

"Has she been here all night?" she whispered.

Winthrop nodded.

"Poor lamb! -- Ye're come in good time, Master Winthrop."

She turned and began to address herself to the long gone-out
fire in the chimney.

"What are you going to do, Karen?" he said softly.

She looked back at him, with her hand in the ashes.

"Haven't you watched to-night?"

"I've watched a many nights," she said shaking her head and
beginning again to rake for coals in the cold fireplace, --
"this aint the first. _That_ aint nothin'. I'll watch now, dear,
'till the day dawn and the shadows flee away'; -- what else
should Karen do? 'Taint much longer, and I'll be where there's
no night again. O come, sweet day! --" said the old woman
clasping her hands together as she crouched in the fireplace,
and the tears beginning to trickle down, -- "when the mother
and the childr'n'll all be together, and Karen somewheres --
and our home won't be broken up no more! --"

She raked away among the ashes with an eager trembling hand.

"Karen, --" said Winthrop softly, -- "Leave that."

"What, dear?" -- she said.

"Leave that."

"Who'll do it, dear?"

"I will."

She obeyed him, as perhaps she would have done for no one
else. Rising up, Winthrop carried his sleeping sister without
wakening her, and laid her on the bed in her own little room,
which opened out of the kitchen; then he came back and went to
work in the fireplace. Karen yielded it to him with equal
admiration and unwillingness; remarking to herself as her
relieved hands went about other business, that, "for sure,
nobody could build a fire handsomer than Mr. Winthrop"; -- and
that "he was his mother's own son, and deserved to be!"


CHAPTER XXV.


That thee is sent receive in buxomness;
The wrestling of this worlde askith a fall;
Here is no home, here is but wildernesse,
Forthe, pilgrim, forthe, o best out of thy stall,
Loke up on high, and thanke thy God of all.
CHAUCER.


As soon as she was awake Winnie sought her brother's side
again; and from that moment never left it when it was possible
to be there. In his arms, if she could; close by his side, if
nearer might not be; she seemed to have no freedom of life but
in his shadow. Her very grief was quieted there; either taking
its tone from his calm strength, or binding itself with her
own love for him. Her brother was the sturdy tree round which
this poor little vine threw its tendrils, and climbed and
flourished, all it could.

He had but a few days to spend at Shahweetah now. Towards the
end of them, she was one evening sitting, as usual, on his
knee; silent and quiet. They were alone.

"Winnie," said her brother, "what shall I do with you?"

She put her arms round his neck and kissed him, -- a very
frequent caress; but she made no answer.

Coming out of an uncertain past, based on some dark legend of
heart-break or blood-shed, they bear no author's name, but are
_ferae naturae_ and have the flavor of wild game.

They were common stock, like the national speech; everyone could
contribute toward them: generations of nameless poets, minstrels,
ballad-singers modernized their language to suit new times, altered
their dialect to suit new places, accommodated their details to
different audiences, English or Scotch, and in every way that they
thought fit added, retrenched, corrupted, improved, and passed them
on.

Folk-poetry is conventional; it seems to be the production of a
guild, and to have certain well understood and commonly expected
tricks of style and verse.

Freshness and sincerity are almost always attributes of the poetry
of heroic ages, but individuality belongs to a high civilization
and an advanced literary culture.

Whether the "Iliad" and the "Odyssey" are the work of one poet or
of a cycle of poets, doubtless the rhetorical peculiarities of the
Homeric epics, such as the recurrent phrase and the conventional
epithet (the rosy-fingered dawn, the well-greaved Greeks, the
swift-footed Achilles, the much-enduring Odysseus, etc.) are due
to this communal or associative character of ancient heroic song.

As in the companies of architects who built the mediaeval cathedrals,
or in the schools of early Italian painters, masters and disciples,
the manner of the individual artist was subdued to the tradition
of his craft.

The English and Scottish popular ballads are in various simple
stanza forms, the commonest of all being the old _septenarius_ or
"fourteener," arranged in a four-lined stanza of alternate eights
and sixes, thus:
"Up then crew the red, red cock, And up and crew the gray; The
eldest to the youngest said ''Tis time we were away

.'"[4]
This is the stanza usually employed by modern ballad imitators,
like Coleridge in "The Ancient Mariner," Scott in "Jock o' Hazeldean,"
Longfellow in "The Wreck of the Hesperus," Macaulay in the "Lays
of Ancient Rome," Aytoun in the "Lays of the Scottish Cavaliers."

Many of the stylistic and metrical peculiarities of the ballads
arose from the fact that they were made to be sung or recited
from memory. Such are perhaps the division of the longer ones
into fits, to rest the voice of the singer; and the use of the
burden or refrain for the same purpose, as also to give the listeners
and bystanders a chance to take up the chorus, which they probably
accompanied with a few dancing steps.[5] Sometimes the burden has
no meaning in itself and serves only to mark time with a _Hey derry
down_ or an _O lilly lally_ and the like.

Sometimes it has more or less reference to the story, as in
"The Two Sisters":

"He has ta'en three locks o' her yellow hair-- Binnorie, O
Binnorie-- And wi' them strung his harp sae rare-- By the
bonnie mill-dams of Binnorie."

Again it has no discoverable relation to the context, as in "Riddles
Wisely Expounded"--
"There was a knicht riding frae the east-- _Jennifer gentle and
rosemarie_-- Who had been wooing at monie a place-- _As the dew
flies over the mulberry tree._"
Both kinds of refrain have been liberally employed by modern
balladists.

Thus Tennyson in "The Sisters":
"We were two sisters of one race, _The wind is howling in turret
and tree;_ _ _She was the fairer in the face, _O the earl was fair
to see

."_

While Rossetti and Jean Ingelow and others have rather favored
the inconsequential burden, an affectation travestied by
the late Mr. C. S.
Calverley:

"The auld wife sat at her ivied door, (Butter and eggs and a
pound of cheese) A thing she had frequently done before; And her
spectacles lay on her aproned knees.

"The farmer's daughter hath soft brown hair (Butter and
eggs and a pound of cheese), And I met with a ballad, I can't
say where, Which wholly consisted of lines like these."[6]
A musical or mnemonic device akin to the refrain was that
sing-song species of repetend so familiar in ballad language:

"She had na pu'd a double rose, a rose but only twa."

"They had na sailed a league, a league, A league but barely three.

"How will I come up? How can I come up?
How can I come to thee?"
An answer is usually returned in the identical words of the
question; and as in Homer, a formula of narration or
a commonplace of description does duty again and again.
Iteration in the ballads is not merely for economy, but stands in
lieu of the metaphor and other figures of literary poetry:
"'O Marie, put on your robes o' black, Or else your robes o' brown,
For ye maun gang wi' me the night, To see fair Edinbro town.'

"'I winna put on my robes o' black, Nor yet my robes o'
brown; But I'll put on my robes o' white, To shine through
Edinbro town.'"
Another mark of the genuine ballad manner, as of Homer and
_Volkspoesie_ in general, is the conventional epithet. Macaulay
noted that the gold is always red in the ballads, the
ladies always gay, and Robin Hood's men are always his merry
men. Doughty Douglas, bold Robin Hood, merry Carlisle, the good
greenwood, the gray goose wing, and the wan water are other
inseparables of the kind. Still another mark is the frequent
retention of the Middle English accent on the final syllable
in words like contrié, barón, dinére, felàwe, abbày, rivére,
monéy, and its assumption by words which never properly had
it, such as ladý, harpér, weddíng, watér, etc.[7] Indeed,
as Percy pointed out in his introduction, there were "many
phrases and idioms which the minstrels seem to have appropriated
to themselves, . . . a cast of style and measure very different
from that of contemporary poets of a higher class."

Not everything that is called a ballad belongs to the class
of poetry that we are here considering.

In its looser employment the word has signified almost any kind of
song: "a woeful ballad made to his mistress' eyebrow," for example.

"Ballade" was also the name of a somewhat intricate French stanza
form, employed by Gower and Chaucer, and recently reintroduced into
English verse by Dobson, Lang, Goose, and others, along with the
virelay, rondeau, triolet, etc.

There is also a numerous class of popular ballads--in the sense of
something made _for_ the people, though not _by_ the people--are
without relation to our subject.

These are the street ballads, which were and still are hawked
about by ballad-mongers, and which have no literary character
whatever. There are satirical and political ballads, ballads
versifying passages in Scripture or chronicle, ballads relating
to current events, or giving the history of famous murders and other
crimes, of prodigies, providences, and all sorts of happenings that
teach a lesson in morals: about George Barnwell and the "Babes in
the Wood," and "Whittington and his Cat," etc.: ballads like
Shenstone's "Jemmy Dawson" and Gay's "Black-eyed Susan."

Thousands of such are included in manuscript collections like the
"Pepysian," or printed in the publications of the Roxburghe Club
and the Ballad Society.

But whether entirely modern, or extant in black-letter broadsides,
they are nothing to our purpose.

We have to do here with the folk-song, the _traditional_
ballad, product of the people at a time when the people was
homogeneous and the separation between the lettered and
unlettered classes had not yet taken place: the true minstrel
ballad of the Middle Ages, or of that state of society which in
rude and primitive neighborhoods, like the Scottish border, prolonged
mediaeval conditions beyond the strictly mediaeval period.

In the form in which they are preserved, a few of our ballads
are older than the seventeenth or the latter part of the
sixteenth century, though in their origin many of them are much
older. Manuscript versions of "Robin Hood and the Monk" and
"Robin Hood and the Potter" exist, which are referred to the
last years of the fifteenth century. The "Lytel Geste of
Robyn Hode" was printed by Wynkyn de Worde in 1489. The
"Not-Brown Maid" was printed in "Arnold's Chronicle" in 1502.
"The Hunting of the Cheviot"--the elder version of "Chevy
Chase"--was mentioned by Philip Sidney in his "Defence of
Poesie" in 1850.[8] The ballad is a narrative song, naïve, impersonal,
spontaneous, objective.

The singer is lost in the song, the teller in the tale. That
is its essence, but sometimes the story is told by the
lyrical, sometimes by the dramatic method.

In "Helen of Kirkconnell" it is the bereaved lover who is himself
the speaker: in "Waly Waly," the forsaken maid.

These are monologues; for a purely dialogue ballad it will be
sufficient to mention the power and impressive piece in the "Reliques"
entitled "Edward."

Herder translated this into German; it is very old, with Danish,
Swedish, and Finnish analogues.

It is a story of parricide, and is narrated in a series of questions
by the mother and answers by the son.

The commonest form, however, was a mixture of epic and dramatic,
or direct relation with dialogue. A frequent feature is
the abruptness of the opening and the translations. The
ballad-maker observes unconsciously Aristotle's rule for
the epic poet, to begin _in medias res_. Johnson noticed
this in the instance of "Johnny Armstrong," but a stronger example
is found in "The Banks of Yarrow:"
"Late at e'en, drinking the wine, And ere they paid the lawing,
They set a combat them between, To fight it in the dawing."

With this, an indirect, allusive way of telling the story, which
Goethe mentions in his prefatory note to "Des Sängers Fluch," as a
constant note of the "Volkslied."

The old ballad-maker does not vouchsafe explanations about persons
and motives; often he gives the history, not expressly nor fully,
but by hints and glimpses, leaving the rest to conjecture; throwing
up its salient points into a strong, lurid light against a background
of shadows.

The knight rides out a-hunting, and by and by his riderless horse
comes home, and that is all:
"Toom[9] hame cam the saddle But never cam he."

Or the knight himself comes home and lies down to die, reluctantly
confessing, under his mother's questioning, that he dined with his
true-love and is poisoned.[10] And again that is all.

Or

"--In behint yon auld fail[11] dyke, I wot there lies a new-slain
knight; And naebody kens that he lies there, But his hawk, his
hound, and lady fair.

"His hound is to the hunting game, His hawk to fetch the
wild-fowl hame, His lady's ta'en another mate, So we may mak
our dinner sweet."

A whole unuttered tragedy of love, treachery, and murder lies back
of these stanzas.

This method of narration may be partly accounted for by the fact
that the story treated was commonly some local country-side legend
of family feud or unhappy passion, whose incidents were familiar
to the ballad-singer's audience and were readily supplied by memory.

One theory holds that the story was partly told and partly sung,
and that the links and expositions were given in prose.

However this may be, the artless art of these popular poets
evidently included a knowledge of the uses of mystery and suggestion.

They knew that, for the imagination, the part is sometimes
greater than the whole. Gray wrote to Mason in 1757, "I have
got the old Scotch ballad [Gil Maurice] on which 'Douglas'
[Home's tragedy, first played at Edinburgh in 1756] was
founded. It is divine. . . Aristotle's best rules are
observed in it in a manner which shews the author never had heard
of Aristotle.

It begins in the fifth act of the play. You may read it
two-thirds through without guessing what it is about; and
yet, when you come to the end, it is impossible not to understand
the whole story."

It is not possible to recover the conditions under which these
folk-songs "made themselves,"[12] as it were, or grew under the
shaping hands of generations of nameless bards.

Their naïve, primitive quality cannot be acquired: the secret
is lost.

But Walter Scott, who was steeped to the lips in balladry, and whose
temper had much of the healthy objectivity of an earlier age, has
succeeded as well as any modern.

Some of his ballads are more perfect artistically than his long
metrical romances; those of them especially which are built up from
a burden or fragment of old minstrel song, like "Jock o' Hazeldean"[13]
and the song in "Rokeby":
"He turned his charger as he spake Upon the river shore, He gave
the bride-reins a shake, Said 'Adieu for evermore, My love!

And adieu for evermore!'"

Here Scott catches the very air of popular poetry, and the dovetailing
is done with most happy skill.

"Proud Maisie is in the Wood" is a fine example of the ballad manner
of story-telling by implication.[14]
As regards their subject-matter, the ballads admit of a rough
classification into the historical, or _quasi_-historical, and the
purely legendary or romantic.

Of the former class were the "riding-ballad" of the Scottish border,
where the forays of moss-troopers, the lifting of blackmail, the
raids and private warfare of the Lords of the Marches, supplied
many traditions of heroism and adventure like those recorded in
"The Battle of Otterburn," "The Hunting of the Cheviot," "Johnnie
Armstrong," "Kinmont Willie," "The Rising in the North" and
"Northumberland Betrayed by Douglas."

Of the fictitious class, some were shortened, popularized, and
generally degraded versions of the chivalry romances, which
were passing out of favor among educated readers in the sixteenth
century and fell into the hands of the ballad-makers.

Such, to name only a few included in the "Reliques," were "Sir
Lancelot du Lake," "The Legend of Sir Guy," "King Arthur's Death"
and "The Marriage of Sir Gawaine."

But the substance of these was not of the genuine popular stuff,
and their personages were simply the old heroes of court poetry in
reduced circumstances.

Much more impressive are the original folk-songs, which strike their
roots deep into the ancient world of legend and even of myth.

In this true ballad world there is a strange commingling of paganism
and Catholic Christianity.

It abounds in the supernatural and the marvelous.

Robin Hood is a pious outlaw. He robs the fat-headed monks,
but will not die unhouseled and has great devotion to Our Blessed
Lady; who appears also to Brown Robyn, when he is cast overboard,
hears his confession and takes his soul to Heaven.[15] When mass
has been sung and the bells of merry Lincoln have rung, Lady Maisry
goes seeking her little Hugh, who has been killed by the Jew's
daughter and thrown into Our Lady's draw-well fifty fathom deep,
and the boy answers his mother miraculously from the well.[16] Birds
carry messages for lovers[17] and dying men,[18] or show the place
where the body lies buried and the corpse-candles shine.[19] The
harper strings his harp with three golden hairs of the drowned
maiden, and the tune that he plays upon them reveals the secret of
her death.[20] The ghosts of the sons that have perished at sea
come home to take farewell of their mother.[21] The spirit of the
forsaken maid visits her false lover at midnight;[22] or "the dead
comes for the quick,"[23] as in Burger's weird poem.

And she looked so.

"Are you willing to learn?"

"Like nothin' better."

"Provided it's the right kind, I suppose," said Elizabeth,
wholly unable to prevent her features giving way a little at
the unshakable coolness and spirit she had to do with. Clam's
face relaxed in answer, after a different manner from any it
had taken during the interview; and she said,

"Well, I'll try. Mr. Winthrop said I was to be good; and I
ain't a goin' to do nothin' to displease him, anyhow!"

"But the matter is rather to please _me_, here," said Elizabeth.

"Well," said Clam with her former wide-awake smile, "I guess
what 'll please him 'll please you, won't it?"

"Go down stairs, and come to me after breakfast," said her
mistress. "I'll let you make some new dresses for yourself the
first thing. And look here, --" said she pulling a bright-
coloured silk handkerchief out of a drawer, -- "put that into a
turban before you come up and let me see what you're up to."

Clam departed without an answer; but when she made her
appearance again, the orange and crimson folds were twisted
about her head in a style that convinced Elizabeth her new
waiting-maid's capacity was equal to all the new demands she
would be likely to make upon it.


CHAPTER XXVI.


Never his worldly lot, or worldly state torments him:
Less he would like, if less his God had sent him.
FLETCHER.


Winthrop had taken no little charge upon himself in the charge
of his little sister. In many ways. He had a scanty purse, and
it better bore the demands of one than of two; but that was
only a single item. Winnie was not a charge upon his purse
alone, but upon his heart and his head and his time. The
demands were all met, to the full.

As much as it was possible, in the nature of Winthrop's
business, his sister had him with her; and when he could not
be there, his influence and power. It was trying enough for
the poor child to be left alone as much as she was, for she
could not always find solace in Mrs. Nettley, and sometimes
could not endure her presence. Against this evil Winthrop
provided as far as he might by giving Winnie little jobs to do
for him while he was gone, and by setting her about what
courses of self-improvement her delicate system of mind and
body was able to bear. He managed it so that all was for him;
not more the patching and knitting and bits of writing which
were strictly in his line, than the pages of history, the sums
in arithmetic, and the little lesson of Latin, which were for
Winnie's own self. He knew that affection, in every one of
them, would steady the nerves and fortify the will to go
patiently on to the end. And the variety of occupation he left
her was so great that without tiring herself in any one thing,
Winnie generally found the lonely hours of her day pretty well
filled up. Mrs. Nettley was a great help, when Winnie was in
the mood for her company; that was not always.

His little sister's bodily and mental health was another care
upon Winthrop's mind, and on his time. Disease now constantly
ruffled the sweet flow of spirits which once was habitual with
her. Nothing ruffled his; and his soothing hand could always
quiet her, could almost always make her happy, when it was
practicable for him to spare time. Very often when he had no
time to give beyond what a word or a look would take from his
business. But those times were comparatively few. He was apt
to give her what she needed, and make up for it afterwards at
the cost of rest and sleep when Winnie was abed. Through the
warm summer days he took her daily and twice daily walks, down
to the Green where the sea air could blow in her face fresh
from its own quarter, where she and he too could turn their
backs upon brickwork and pavement and look on at least one
face of nature unspotted and unspoiled. At home he read to
her, and with her, the times when he used to read the
classics; and many other times; he talked to her and he played
with her, having bought a second-hand backgammon board for the
very purpose; he heard her and set her her lessons; and he
amused her with all the details of his daily business and
experience that he could make amusing.

If these things were a charge, it was one for which he was
abundantly rewarded, every night and every morning, and knew
it. But the other part of the burden, the drain upon his
purse, was not so easily to be met withal. There was no
helping it. Winnie's state of health made her simple wants,
simple as they were, far more costly than his own had been;
and he would and did supply them. He could bear to starve
himself and lie hard; but Winnie would very soon starve to
death; and the time when she could sleep softly on a hard bed
had once been, but would never be again, literally or
figuratively. Winthrop never shewed her how it was with him;
not the less it was almost the ebb; and whence the flow was to
come, was a point he saw not. He was not yet admitted to
practise law; his slender means were almost all gathered from
teaching; and he could not teach any more than he did. And
this consciousness he carried about with him, to the office,
to market, and to his little sister's presence. For her his
face was always the same; and while she had it Winnie thought
little was wanting to her life.

One morning when she had it not, she was lying wearily
stretched out on the couch which was hers by day and
Winthrop's by night. It was early June; the sun was paying his
first instalment of summer heat, and doing it as if he were
behind-hand with pay-day. Winnie's attic roof gave her a full
share of his benefits. The hours of the morning had worn away,
when towards noon a slow step was heard ascending the stairs.
It was her hostess, come up to look after her.

"All alone?" said Mrs. Nettley.

"Oh yes! --" came with most fervent breath from Winnie. Her
head uneasily turned the other cheek to the pillow.

"Poor child!" said Mrs. Nettley; and every line of her careful
and sympathetic face said it over again. "Poor child! -- And
Mr. Winthrop's been away all the morning!"

"I don't know why you call me _poor_," said Winnie, whose nerves
could not bear even that slight touch, if it happened to touch
the wrong way; -- "Of course he's been away all the morning --
he always is."

"And you're tired. I didn't mean _poor_, dear, in the way that I
am poor myself; -- not that poor, -- I only meant, -- because you
were so much here all alone without your brother."

"I know what you meant," said Winnie.

"It's hot up here, isn't it," said Mrs. Nettley going to the
window. "Dreadful. It's hot down stairs too. Can't we let a
little air in?" --

"Don't! It's hotter with it."

Mrs. Nettley left the window and came and stood by Winnie's
couch, her face again saying what her voice did not dare to
say, -- "Poor child!" --

"Mrs. Nettley --"

"What, my love?"

"I'm very cross --"

"No you aren't, my love! you're only tired."

"I'm very cross -- I don't know what makes me so -- but
sometimes I feel so it seems as if I couldn't help it. I'm
cross even to Winthrop. I'm very much obliged to you, but you
must think I aint."

"I don't think the least thing of the kind, dearest -- I know
it's miserable and suffocating up here, and you _can't_ feel -- I
wish I could make it better for you!"

"O it'll be better by and by -- when Governor gets home and it
grows cool."

"Come down and take a bit of dinner with me."

"O no, thank you, Mrs. Nettley," said Winnie brightening up, --
"I don't want anything; and Governor'll be home by and by and
then we'll have our dinner. I'm going to broil the chicken and
get everything ready."

"Well, that'll be sweeter than anything I've got," said the
good lady. -- "Why, who's there? --"

Somebody there was, knocking at the door; and when the door
was opened, who was there shewed herself in the shape of a
young lady, very bright looking and well dressed. She glanced
at Mrs. Nettley with a slight word of inquiry and passing her
made her way on up to the couch.

"Is this Winifred?" she said, looking, it might be, a little
shocked and a little sorrowful at the pale and mind-worn face
that used to be so round and rosy; and about which the soft
fair hair still clustered as abundantly as ever.

"Yes ma'am," Winifred said, half rising.

"Don't get up, -- don't you know me?"

Winnie's eye keenly scanned the bright fresh face that bent
over her, but she shook her head and said 'no'.

"Can't you remember my being at your house -- some time ago? --
me and" she stopped. "Don't you remember? We spent a good
while there -- one summer -- it was when you were a little
girl."

"O!" -- said Winnie, -- "are you --"

"Yes."

"I remember. But you were not so large then, either."

"I am not very large now," said her visiter, taking a chair
beside Winnie's couch.

"No. But I didn't know you."

"How do you do, dear?"

"I don't know," said Winnie. "I am not very well now-a-days."

"And Mannahatta is hot and dusty and disagreeable -- more than
any place you ever were in before in your life, isn't it?"

"I don't care," said Winnie. "I'd rather be with Winthrop."

"And can he make up for dust and heat and bad air and all?"

The smile that broke upon Winnie's face Elizabeth remembered
was like that of old time; there was a sparkle in the eyes
that looked up at her, the lips had their childish play, and
the thin cheek even shewed its dimple again. As she met the
look, Elizabeth's own face grew grave and her brow fell; and
it was half a minute before she spoke.

"But he cannot be with you a great deal of the time."

"O yes he is," said Winnie; -- "he is here in the morning, and
at breakfast and dinner and tea, and all the evening. And all
Sundays."

"That's the best day of the week then, I suppose."

"It's always that," said Winnie. "And he takes a great many
walks with me -- every day almost, when it gets cool -- we go
down on the Green and stay there as long as it's pleasant."

Elizabeth was silent again.

F. to be informed, that the newspapers of the time
recorded the death of Mr.

Bishop Cranmer of Wivelescombe, co. Somerset, on the 8th
April, 1831, at the age of eighty-eight.

He is said to have been a direct descendant of the martyred
archbishop, to whose portraits he bore a strong personal
resemblance.

J. D. S.

_Shakspeare's Use of the Word "Captious"_ (Vol. ii., p. 354.).--Why
may not the word have the same meaning as it has now? A
_captious_ person is not primarily a deceitful person, but
either one who catches at any argument to uphold his own
cause, or, more generally, one who catches or cavils at arguments
or expressions used by another, and fastens a frivolous objection
on them; one who takes exception to a point on paltry and insufficient
grounds:
"Yet in this captious and intenible sieve I still pour in the waters
of my love."

_i.e._ yet into this sieve, which catches at, and yet never
holds them, I still pour the waters of my love.

There seems to me a double meaning of the word _captious_, indicating
an under-current of thought in the author; first, the literal sense,
then the inferential: "this sieve catches at and seems as if it
would intercept the waters of my love, but takes me in, and disappoints
me, because it will not uphold them."

The objection to explaining _captious_ by simply _fallacious_,
is that the word means this by inference or consequence, rather
than primarily.

Because one who is eager to controvert, _i.e._ who is captious,
generally, but not always, acts for a sophistical purpose and means
to deceive.

Cicero, I believe, uses _fallax_ and _captiosus_ as distinct, not
as synonymous, terms.

E. A. D.

_Boiling to Death_ (Vol. ii., p. 519.).--
"Impoysonments, so ordinary in Italy, are so abominable among
English, as 21 Hen. 8. it was made high treason, though since
repealed; after which the punishment for it was to be put alive in
a caldron of water, and there boiled to death: at present it is
felony without benefit of clergy."

--Chamberlayne's _State of England_,--an old copy, without a
title-page.

Judging from the list of bishops and maids of honour, I believe
the date to be 1669.

WEDSECNARF.

_Dozen of Bread_ (Vol. ii., p. 49.).
I may wish it at first,
of course; but I don't want to do it if he wishes me not."

"How did he ever get such power over you!"

"Power!" said Winnie, raising herself up on her elbow, -- "why
I don't know what you mean! I should think everybody would do
what Winthrop likes -- it isn't _power_."

"I wonder what is, then!" said Elizabeth significantly.

"Why it's -- it's -- goodness!" said Winnie, shutting her eyes,
but not before they had filled again. Elizabeth bit her lips
to keep her own from following company; not with much success.

"That's what it is," said Winnie, without opening her eyes; --
"he always was just so. No he wasn't either, -- though it
almost seems as if he was, -- but now he's a Christian."

If outward signs had kept inward feelings company, Elizabeth
would have started. She sat still; but the lines of her face
wore a look of something very like startled gravity. There was
a silence of more than one minute. Winnie opened her eyes and
directed them upon her still companion.

"Is he any better than he used to be?" she forced herself to
say.

"Why yes," said Winnie, -- "of course -- he must be. He used to
be as good as he could be, except that; -- and now he's that
too."

"What difference does 'that' make, Winifred?"

Winnie looked keenly once more at the face of her questioner.

"Don't you know what it is to be a Christian, Miss Haye?"

Elizabeth shook her head.

"You must ask Winthrop," said Winnie. "He can tell you better
than I can."

"I want you to tell me. What difference, for instance, has it
made in your brother?"

Winnie looked grave and somewhat puzzled.

"He don't seem much different to _me_," she said, -- "and yet he
_is_ different. -- The difference is, Miss Haye, that before, he
loved _us_ -- and now he loves God and keeps his commandments."

"Don't he love you now?"

"Better than ever!" said Winnie with her eyes opening; -- "why
what makes you ask that?"

"Didn't he keep the commandments of the Bible before?"

"No, --not as he does now. Some of them he did, because he
never was bad as some people are; -- but he didn't keep them as
he does now. He didn't keep the first commandment of all."

"Which is that?" said Elizabeth.

Winnie gave her another earnest look before she answered.

"Don't you know?"

"No."

"'Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and
with all thy mind, and with all thy soul, and with all thy
strength.'"

If Winifred's face was grave, Elizabeth's took a double shade
of gravity -- it was even dark for a minute, as if with some
thought that troubled her. Winnie's eyes seemed to take note
of it, and Elizabeth roused herself. Yet at first it was not
to speak.

"When -- How long ago, do you suppose," she said, "your brother
was changed in this way?"

"Since -- since the time I came here; -- since mother died,"
Winnie said softly.

There was again a few minutes of absolute silence; and then
Elizabeth rose to go.

"Shall I send you the wine?" she said smiling.

"I don't believe Winthrop will let me take it," Winifred said.

"Because he is good, are you bound not to get strong?"
Elizabeth said with an air of slight vexation.

"No," -- said Winnie, "but because he is good I must do what he
says."

"I wish I liked anybody so well as that!" said Elizabeth
kissing her. "Good bye, dear, -- I'll come for you to-morrow.
There's no objection to that, I suppose?"

"No," Winnie said laughing; and they parted.

Five minutes Winnie was alone, thinking over her visit and
visiter. They were a great novelty, and very interesting.
Winnie's thoughts roved with an odd mixture of admiration and
pity over the beautiful dress, and fine face, and elastic
step; they were bewitching; but Winnie had seen a shadow on
the face, and she knew that the best brightness had never
lighted it. Five minutes were all she had to think about it;
then she heard a very different step on the stairs.

"I heard her go," said Mrs. Nettley, coming in, "and I had a
little more time to spare; so I thought I would spend it with
you; -- unless you've got enough with such a gay visiter and
don't want me."

Nay, though all the laws of heroic poem, all the laws of tragedy
were exactly observed, yet still this _tour entrejeant_--this
poetic energy, if I may so call it, would be required to give life
to all the rest; which shines through the roughest, most unpolished,
and antiquated language, and may haply be wanting in the most polite
and reformed.

Let us observe Spenser, with all his rusty, obsolete words,
with all his rough-hewn clouterly verses; yet take him throughout,
and we shall find in him a graceful and poetic majesty.

In like manner, Shakspere in spite of all his unfiled expressions,
his rambling and indigested fancies--the laughter of the critical--yet
must be confessed a poet above many that go beyond him to literature[5]
some degrees."

The laughter of the critical! Let us pause upon the phrase, for
it is a key to the whole attitude of the Augustan mind toward
"our old tragick poet."

Shakspere was already a national possession. Indeed it is
only after the Restoration that we find any clear recognition of
him, as one of the greatest--as perhaps himself the very greatest--of
the dramatists of all time.

For it is only after the Restoration that criticism begins.

"Dryden," says Dr.

Johnson, "may be properly considered as the father of English
criticism, as the writer who first taught us to determine, upon
principles, the merit of composition. . .

Dryden's 'Essay of Dramatic Poesy' [1667] was the first regular
and valuable treatise on the art of writing.

"[6] The old theater was dead and Shakspere now emerged from amid
its ruins, as the one unquestioned legacy of the Elizabethan age
to the world's literature.

He was not only the favorite of the people, but in a critical
time, and a time whole canons of dramatic art were opposed to his
practice, he united the suffrages of all the authoritative leader
of literacy opinion.

Pope's lines are conclusive as to the veneration in which Shakspere's
memory was held a century after his death.

"On Avon's banks, where flowers eternal blow, If I but ask, if any
weed can grow; One tragic sentence if I dare deride Which Betterton's
grave action dignified . . .

How will our fathers rise up in a rage, And swear, all shame is
lost in George's age

.

"[7]

The Shaksperian tradition is unbroken in the history of English
literature and of the English theater.

His plays, in one form or another, have always kept the stage even
in the most degenerate condition of public taste.[8] Few handsomer
tributes have been paid to Shakspere's genius than were paid in
prose and verse, by the critics of our classical age, from Dryden
to Johnson.

"To begin then with Shakspere," says the former, in his "Essay of
Dramatic Poesy," "he was the man who, of all modern and perhaps
ancient poets, had the largest and most comprehensive soul."

And, in the prologue to his adaptation of "The Tempest," he
acknowledges that 
"Shakspere's magic could not copied be:
Within that circle none durst walk but he."

It had worn on, and the long summer day was drawing to its
close, when Winthrop was at last set free from his business
engagements and turned his face and his footsteps towards
home. The day had been sultry and his toil very engrossing;
but that was not the reason his footsteps flagged. They
flagged rarely, but they did it now. It needed not that he
should have noticed his little sister's face at dinner; his
ordinary burdens of care were quite enough and one of them
just now pressing. In a sort of brown study he was slowly
pacing up one of the emptying business streets, when his hand
was seized by some one, and Winthrop's startled look up met
the round jocund well-to-do face of the German professor.

"Wint'rop! -- Where are you going?"

"Home, sir," -- said Winthrop returning the grasp of his
friend's hand.

"How is all wiz you?"

"As usual, sir."

"Wint'rop -- what is de matter wiz you?"

"Nothing! --" said Winthrop.

"I know better!" said the naturalist, -- "and I know what it
is, too. Here -- I will give you some work to do one of these
days and then I will pay you the rest."

And shaking Winthrop's hand again, the philosopher dashed on.
But Winthrop's hand was not empty when his friend's had
quitted it; to his astonishment he found a roll of bills left
in it, and to his unbounded astonishment found they were bills
to the amount of three hundred dollars.

If he was in any sort of a study as he paced the rest of his
way home, it was not a brown study; and if his steps were
slow, it was not that they flagged any more. It had come in
time; it was just what was needed; and it was enough to keep
him on, till he should be admitted to the bar and might edge
off his craft from her moorings to feel the wind and tide
'that lead on to fortune.' Winthrop never doubted of catching
both; as little did he doubt now of being able some time to
pay back principal and interest to his kind friend. He went
home with a lighter heart. But he had never let Winnie know of
his troubles, and could not for the same reason talk to her of
this strange relief.

Thinking so, he went up the stairs and opened the door of his
and her sitting-room. The sun was down by that time, and the
evening light was failing. The table stood ready for tea;
Winnie had all the windows open to let in the freshening air
from the sea, which was beginning to make head against the
heats and steams of the city; herself sat on the couch, away
from the windows, and perhaps her attitude might say, away
from everything pleasant. Winthrop came silently up and put a
little basket in her hand.

"Oh! --" Winnie sprang forward with an accent of joy, --
"Strawberries! -- Beautiful! and so sweet! O Winthrop, aren't
they sweet! -- how good they will be."

"I hope so," said he. "How are you?"

"O -- I'm well," said Winnie. "How big they are -- and fresh.
They do smell so sweet, don't they, Governor?"

Winthrop thought they were not so fresh nor so sweet as those
which grew in the Bright Spot under Wut-a-qut-o; but he didn't
remind Winnie of that. He smiled at her, as she was picking
over her basket of strawberries with an eager hand. Yet when
Winnie had got to the bottom of the basket and looked up at
him his face was very grave indeed.

"There's plenty for you and me, Governor," she said.

"No," said her brother.

"There is plenty, Winthrop!"

"There is only just enough for you, and you must prove that by
eating them all."

"Why didn't you get some for yourself, Governor!"

He answered that by spreading for her a particularly nice
piece of bread and butter and laying it on her plate alongside
of the strawberries. Winnie took it in the same pleasant mood
and began upon both with great zeal; but before she had got
half through the strawberries something seemed to come over
her recollection; and the latter part of the meal her face
grew more shadowy than the growing evening. When it was over,
Winthrop placed her gently on the couch, and himself put away
the dishes and glasses and eatables from the table. Then he
came and sat down beside her and drew her head to lean upon
him. It was darkening by that time, and the air coming in more
and more fresh at the windows.

"Have you been very tired to-day?"

"No -- I don't know --" said Winnie doubtfully.

"We couldn't have our walk this evening -- I am sorry for that
-- but I was kept so long with Bob Satterthwaite. He is in a
great feaze about some property that he thinks is owing to him
somewhere, and he has been giving me a long detail of matters
and things connected with the business. -- I believe that if I
were in practice he would commission me to get his rights for
him. And an old classmate and friend of mine, Bob Cool, was in
town to-day and came to see me. _He_ was expressing a very
earnest wish that I were working on my own hook."

"Oh I wish you were!" -- said Winnie.

"Patience. I shall be in a little while more, if all goes
well. Mr. Cool promises I shall have all his business."

"Is that much?"

"I don't know. It seems so."

"But isn't Mr. Satterthwaite rich?"

"Yes -- very."

"Then what is he in a feaze about money for?"

"He is not so rich he mightn't be richer, I suppose, Winnie.
And besides, nobody likes to be cheated."

"Is Mr. Haye rich?"

"Yes! What made you think of him?"

Winnie hesitated. "She was here to-day."

"She! Who? -- Clam?"

"No, not Clam."

"Who then?"

"Why -- Miss Haye."

"Was _she_ here?"

"Yes."

"When?"

"This morning. She staid a good while with me."

"It was kind of her," said Winthrop after a little pause.

There was a pause then of some length.

"Has Miss Haye's being here and talking to you, tired you,
Winnie?" said her brother, the arm that was round her drawing
her more near.

"No --" Winnie said; but by no means as if Miss Haye's visit
had had a sprightly effect.

"Staid here a good while talking? What did she talk about?"

"O -- I don't know, --" said Winnie, -- "about my drinking wine,
and going to ride with her."

"She is very kind. And what did you tell her?"

"I said I didn't know whether you would let me drink it. I
said I would go to ride."

"I am very much obliged to Miss Haye, and very glad for you,
Winnie. It will do you good."

"Would you let me drink wine, if she should send it to me?"

"Did she speak of doing that?"

"Yes."

There was a little silence.

"Would you let me take it, Winthrop?"

"I suppose I should."

"I hope she won't send it," said Winnie; "and I wish I wasn't
going to ride, either."

"Why?"

"O -- I'd rather stay here."

They sat a little while without speaking another word; and
then Winthrop withdrawing his arm proposed to have 'some light
on the subject.' Winifred sprang to get it, but he held her
back, and himself got the candle and lit it and placed it on
the table. The light shewed Winnie's face flushed and
unresting, and of doubtful signification about the eyes.
Winthrop came and took his former place and position by her
side.

"How has the day been with you, Winnie?"

The tone was most gentle and kindly. Winnie hesitated and then
said,

"It hasn't been good."

"What's the matter?"

"_I_ haven't been good."

"That isn't such a new thing that you need be surprised at it,
-- is it?" he said gently.

"No" -- under breath.

"And it isn't so strange a thing that I love you a bit the
less for it."

"But it's very uncomfortable," said poor Winnie, whose voice
bore her witness.

"I find it so often."

"You, Governor! -- you _never_ do!" said Winnie energetically.

"Never do what?"

"Never feel like me."

"No, Winnie -- I am strong and you are weak -- you are sick and I
am well. I have no excuse -- you have, a little."

"It don't make it a bit better," said poor Winnie. "I don't
want to make any excuse. I got so cross with Mrs. Nettley to-
day."

"What about?"

"O I couldn't bear to hear her talk, and I almost told her
so."

"I dare say you did what you could to mend it afterwards,
Winnie."

"O yes; -- and she didn't think anything of it at all; but I am
always doing so, Winthrop."

"You never do it to me," said her brother soothingly.

"To you! -- But O Winthrop! -- if I loved God enough, I never
should do anything to displease him!"

She had thrown herself further into her brother's arms and at
this was weeping with all her heart.

"He said once himself," said Winthrop, "'Blessed are they
that mourn now, for they shall be comforted.'"

Winnie clung faster to him, with a grateful clasp, and her
tears came more gently.

"We sha'n't be quit of it till we get to heaven, Winnie; -- and
'the people that dwell therein,' you know, 'shall be forgiven
their iniquity.' And more than that, 'white robes are given
unto every one of them.' 'And they shall see the King's face,
and his name shall be in their foreheads.'"

"I wish it was in mine now!" said Winnie.

"Stop, Winnie. -- I hope it is there, -- only not so bright as
it will be by and by."

"But it ought to be bright now," said Winnie raising herself.

"Let it be brighter every day then," said her brother.

"I do try, Governor," said poor Winnie, -- "but sometimes I
think I don't get ahead at all!"

It was with great tenderness that again he put his arm round
her, and drew down her head upon him, and pressed her close to
his side.

"Rest! --" said he, -- "and trust what is written, that 'they
shall praise the Lord that seek him.' 'Wait on the Lord; be of
good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart; wait, I
say, on the Lord.'"

"How much better I feel already," said poor Winnie presently.

There was a long silence. Winnie lay there still, and Winthrop
was softly playing with one of her hands and striking it and
stroking it against his own. The air came in fresh and cool
from the sea and put the candle flame out of all propriety of
behaviour; it flared and smoked, and melted the candle
sideways, and threatened every now and then to go out
entirely; but Winnie lay looking at Winthrop's hand which the
moonlight shone upon, and Winthrop -- nobody knows what he was
looking at; but neither of them saw the candle. Winnie was the
one to break the silence.

"What sort of a person is she, Winthrop?"

"Who?" said her brother.

"What? -- O, I mean -- I meant -- I meant, who was here to-day, --
Miss Haye."

"You have seen her, Winnie," he said after a moment's
hesitation.

"Yes, but you know her. Do you think she is a person I would
like?"

"I do not know."

"You don't know! --"

"But _you_ know her, Winthrop," said Winnie a little timidly,
when she found he added nothing to his former words.

"Yes."

"Don't _you_ like her?"

"Yes."

"Then why don't you know?"

"You don't like everything that I like," said her brother.

"Why yes I do! -- Don't I?"

"Not everything."

"What don't I?"

"Euripides -- and Plato."

"Ah but I don't understand those," said Winnie.

Winthrop was silent. Was that what he meant? -- was Winnie's
instant thought. Very disagreeable. And his 'yes's' were so
quiet -- they told nothing. Winnie looked at her brother's hand
again, or rather at Miss Haye in her brother's hand; and
Winthrop pursued his own meditations.

"Governor," said Winnie after a while, "is Miss Haye a
Christian?"

"No."

Winnie asked no more; partly because she did not dare, and
partly because the last answer had given her so much to think
of. She did not know why, either, and she would have given a
great deal to hear it over again. In that little word and the
manner of it, there had been so much to quiet and to disquiet
her. Undoubtedly Winnie would have done anything in the world,
that she could, to make Miss Haye a Christian; and yet, there
was a strange sort of relief in hearing Winthrop say that
word; and at the same time a something in the way he said it
that told her her relief had uncertain foundation. The 'no'
had not been spoken like the 'yes' -- it came out half under
breath; what meaning lurked about it Winnie could not make
out; she puzzled herself to think; but though she could not
wish it had been a willing 'no,' she wished it had been any
other than it had. She could not ask any more; and Winthrop's
face when he went to his reading was precisely what it was
other evenings. But Winnie's was not; and she went to bed and
got up with a sore spot in her heart, and a resolution that
_she_ would not like Miss Haye, for she would not know her well
enough to make sure that she could.


END OF VOL. I.


PRINTED BY BERNHARD TAUCHNITZ.


COLLECTION

OF

BRITISH AUTHORS


VOL. CCCLII.


THE HILLS OF THE SHATEMUC

BY

ELIZABETH WETHERELL.


IN TWO VOLUMES.


VOL. II.


THE


HILLS OF THE SHATEMUC


BY


ELIZABETH WETHERELL,

AUTHOR OF "THE WIDE WIDE WORLD."


_AUTHOR'S EDITION_.


IN TWO VOLUMES.

VOL. II.


LEIPZIG


BERNHARD TAUCHNITZ


1856.


THE HILLS OF THE SHATEMUC.


VOL. II.


CHAPTER I.


Ha, ha! what a fool honesty is! and trust, his sworn brother,
a very simple gentleman!
WINTER'S TALE.


Poor Winnie held to her resolution, though half unconsciously
and quite involuntarily. She did not enjoy her ride, and
therefore did not seem to enjoy it; for it was not in her
nature to seem other than she was. Neither did she take or
shew any but a very qualified pleasure in Miss Haye's company;
and for this reason or for others Miss Haye made her visits
few.

But this did not a bit help the main question; and in the want
of data and the absence of all opportunity for making
observations, Winnie had full chance to weary herself with
fancies and fears. She could not get courage enough to say
anything about Miss Haye again to her brother; and he never
spoke of her. There was no change in him; he was always as
careful of his little sister; always bestowed his time upon
her in the same way; was always at home in the evenings.
Unless when, very rarely, he made an arrangement that she
should spend one with Mrs. Nettley and Mr. Inchbald. These
times were seldom; and Winnie generally knew where he was
going and that it was not to Mr. Haye's. But she was not sure
of the integrity of her possession of him; and that want of
security opened the sluice-gates to a flood-tide of wearisome
possibilities; and Winnie's nervous and morbid sensibilities
made the most of them. It was intolerable, to think that
Winthrop should love anybody as he did her; that he should
love anybody _better_, happily for Winnie, never entered her
imaginings. She could not endure to think that those lips,
which were to her the sweetest of earthly things, should touch
any other cheek or mouth but her own. They were _hers_. It was
bitter as wormwood to think that his strong arm could ever
hold and guide another as it held and guided his little
sister. "But _guide?_ -- _she'd_ never let him guide her!" -- said
Winnie in a great fit of sisterly indignation. And her
thoughts would tumble and toss the matter about, till her
cheek was in a flush; she was generally too eager to cry. It
wore upon her; she grew thinner and more haggard; but nobody
knew the cause and no one could reach the remedy.

With all this the end of summer came, and Rufus. He came to
establish himself under Mr. Haye's direction. "For the time,"
-- as Winthrop told Winnie, when she asked him if Rufus was
going to turn merchant. And when she asked him further "what
for?" -- he answered that Rufus was a spice merchant and dealt
in variety. With the end of autumn came Winthrop's admission
to the bar.

And Winnie drew a mental long breath. Winthrop was a lawyer
himself, and no longer in a lawyer's office. Winthrop had an
office of his own. The bark was shoved from the shore, with
her sails set; and Winnie, no more than her brother, doubted
not that the gales of prosperity would soon fill them. Rufus
was greatly amused with her.

"_You_ think it's a great thing to be a lawyer, don't you?" said
he one night.

"I think it's a great thing to be such a lawyer as Governor
will be," said Winnie.

At which Rufus laughed prodigiously.

"_I_ think it's a great thing to be such a governor as this
lawyer will be," he said when he had recovered himself.
"Nothing less, Governor! You have your title beforehand."

"'Once a judge always a judge,'" said Winthrop. "I am afraid
if you reverse the terms, so you will the conclusion."

"Terms!" said Rufus. "You will be governor of this state, and
I shall be your financial secretary -- on any terms you please.
By the way -- what keeps you from Haye's now-a-days? Not this
girl?"

"No," said Winthrop.

It was that same 'no' over again. Winnie knew it, and her
heart throbbed.

"What then? I haven't seen you there since I've been in town."

"How often are you there yourself?"

"O! -- every evening almost. What keeps you?"

"Duty --" said Winthrop.

"But what sort of duty! What on earth can hinder your coming
there as you used to do, to spend a rational hour now and
then?"

"My dear sir, it is enough for any man to know his own duty;
it is not always possible for him to know that of another
man."

"And therefore I ask you!" said Rufus.

"What?"

"Why! -- what's your reason for keeping away."

"In brief -- my engagements."

"You've nothing to do with briefs yet," said Rufus; "have the
goodness to enlarge a little. You've not been more busy lately
than you were a while ago."

"Yes I have."

"Yes, I suppose you have," -- said Rufus meditatively. "But not
so much more as to make that a reason?"

"If my reasons were not only 'as plenty' but as precious, as
blackberries," said his brother, "you could not shew more
eagerness for them."

"I am afraid the blackberries would be the more savoury," said
Rufus laughing a little. "But you didn't use to make such a
hermit of yourself, Winthrop."

."
[29] See _ante_, p. 114.

[30] "Life of Collins."
[31] Essay on "Pope."
[32] Mr.

Perry enumerates, among English imitators, Falconer, T. Warton,
James Graeme, Wm. Whitehead, John Scott, Henry Headly, John
Henry Moore, and Robert Lovell, "Eighteenth Century Literature,"
p. 391. Among foreign imitations Lamartine's "Le Lac"
is perhaps the most famous.

[33] "Mason's Works," Vol. I. p. 179.

[34] _Ibid._, Vol. I. p. 114.

[35] _Cf_.

Keats' unfinished poem, "The Eve of St. Mark,"
[36] Parnell's collected poems were published in 1722.

[37] Not the least interesting among the progeny of Gray's
"Elegy" was "The Indian Burying Ground" of the American poet,
Philip Freneau (1752-1832). Gray's touch is seen elsewhere
in Freneau, _e.g._, in "The Deserted Farm-house."

"Once in the bounds of this sequestered room Perhaps some swain
nocturnal courtship made:
Perhaps some Sherlock mused amid the gloom, Since Love and Death
forever seek the shade

."

[38] _Spectator_, No. 489.

[39] No. 415.

[40] John Hill Burton, in his "Reign of Queen Anne" give a passage
from a letter of one Captain Burt, superintendent of certain
road-making operations in the Scotch Highlands, by way of showing
how very modern a person Carlyle's picturesque tourist is.

The captain describes the romantic scenery of the glens as
"horrid prospects." It was considerably later in the century
that Dr. Johnson said, in answer to Boswell's timid suggestion
that Scotland had a great many noble wild prospects, "I believe,
sir, you have a great many, Norway, too, has noble wild prospects,
and Lapland is remarkable for prodigious noble wild prospects.

But, sir, let me tell you, the noblest prospect which a Scotchman
ever sees is the high-road that leads him to England

."
[41] See also Gray's letter to Rev.

James Brown (1763) inclosing a drawing, in reference to a
small ruined chapel at York Minster; and a letter (about 1765)
to Jas. Bentham, Prebendary of Ely whose "Essay on Gothic
Architecture" has been wrongly attributed to Gray.

[42] To Mrs. Dorothy Gray, 1739.

[43] To Richard West, 1739.

[44] Gray, Walpole, and West had been schoolfellows and intimates
at Eton.

[45] To West, 1740.

[46] To Mrs. Dorothy Gray, 1740.

[47] "Pearch's Collection" (VII. 138) gives an elegiac quatrain
poem on "The Ruins of Netley Abbey," by a poet with the suggestive
name of George Keate; and "The Alps," in heavy Thomsonian blank
verse (VII. 107) by the same hand

.

[48] "A soft and lulling sound is heard Of streams inaudible
by day." _The White Doe of Rylstone, Wordsworth_

.

[49] "Samson Agonistes

."
[50] "Essay on Pope" (5th ed.), Vol.

II. p. 180.

[51] These were, in order of publication: "The Mountains and Lakes
of Cumberland and Westmoreland" (2 vols.), 1789; "The Highlands
of Scotland," 1789; "Remarks on Forest Scenery," 1791; "The Western
Parts of England and the Isle of Wight," 1798; "The Coasts of
Hampshire," etc., 1804; "Cambridge, Norfolk, Suffolk, Essex," etc.,
1809.

The last two were posthumously published.

Gilpin, who was a prebendary of Salisbury, died in 1804.
Pearch's "Collection" (VII. 23) has "A Descriptive Poem,"
on the Lake Country, in octosyllabic couplets, introducing Keswick,
Borrowdale, Dovedale, Lodore, Derwentwater, and other familiar
localities.

CHAPTER VI.

The School of Warton
In the progress of our inquiries, hitherto, we have met with little
that can be called romantic in the narrowest sense.

Though the literary movement had already begun to take a retrospective
turn, few distinctly mediaeval elements were yet in evidence.

Neither the literature of the monk nor the literature of the
knight had suffered resurrection. It was not until about
1760 that writers began to gravitate decidedly toward the Middle
Ages. The first peculiarly mediaeval type that contrived to
secure a foothold in eighteenth-century literature was the
hermit, a figure which seems to have had a natural attraction,
not only for romanticizing poets like Shenstone and Collins, but
for the whole generation of verse writers from Parnell to Goldsmith,
Percy and Beattie--each of whom composed a "Hermit"--and even for
the authors of "Rasselas" and "Tom Jones," in whose fictions he
becomes a stock character, as a fountain of wisdom and of moral
precepts.[1]
A literary movement which reverts to the past for its inspiration
is necessarily also a learned movement.

Antiquarian scholarship must lead the way.

The picture of an extinct society has to be pieced together
from the fragments at hand, and this involves special research.

So long as this special knowledge remains the exclusive possession
of professional antiquaries like Gough, Hearne, Bentham, Perry,
Grose,[2] it bears no fruit in creative literature.

It produces only local histories, surveys of cathedrals and
of sepulchral monuments, books about Druidic remains, Roman
walls and coins, etc., etc.

It was only when men of imagination and of elegant tastes were
enlisted in such pursuits that the dry stick of antiquarianism put
forth blossoms.

The poets, of course, had to make studies of their own, to
decipher manuscripts, learn Old English, visit ruins, collect
ballads and ancient armor, familiarize themselves with terms of
heraldry, architecture, chivalry, ecclesiology and feudal law, and
in other such ways inform and stimulate their imaginations.

It was many years before the joint labors of scholars and poets had
reconstructed an image of medieval society, sharp enough in outline
and brilliant enough in color to impress itself upon the general
public.

Scott, indeed, was the first to popularize romance; mainly, no
doubt, because of the greater power and fervor of his imagination;
but also, in part, because an ampler store of materials had been
already accumulated when he began work.

He had fed on Percy's "Reliques" in boyhood; through Coleridge,
his verse derives from Chatterton; and the line of Gothic
romances which starts with "The Castle of Otranto" is
remotely responsible for "Ivanhoe" and "The Talisman." But
Scott too was, like Percy and Walpole, a virtuoso and
collector; and the vast apparatus of notes and introductory matter
in his metrical tales, and in the Waverley novels, shows how necessary
it was for the romantic poet to be his own antiquary.

As was to be expected, the zeal of the first romanticists was not
always a zeal according to knowledge, and the picture of the Middle
Age which they painted was more of a caricature than a portrait.

A large share of medieval literature was inaccessible to the general
reader.

Much of it was still in manuscript.

Much more of it was in old and rare printed copies, broadsides and
black-letter folios, the treasure of great libraries and of jealously
hoarded private collections.

Much was in dialects little understood-forgotten forms of speech-Old
French, Middle High German, Old Norse, medieval Latin, the ancient
Erse and Cymric tongues, Anglo-Saxon.

There was an almost total lack of apparatus for the study of this
literature.

Helps were needed in the shape of modern reprints of scarce texts,
bibliographies, critical editions, translations, literary histories
and manuals, glossaries of archaic words, dictionaries and grammars
of obsolete languages.

These were gradually supplied by working specialists in
different fields of investigation. Every side of medieval
life has received illustration in its turn.

Works like Tyrwhitt's edition of Chaucer (1775-78); the collections
of mediaeval romances by Ellis (1805), Ritson (1802), and Weber
(1810); Nares' and Halliwell's "Archaic Glossary" (1822-46), Carter's
"Specimens of Ancient Sculpture and Paintings" (1780-94), Scott's
"Demonology and Witchcraft" (1830), Hallam's "Middle Ages" (1818),
Meyrick's "Ancient Armour" (1824), Lady Guest's "Mabinogion" (1838),
the publications of numberless individual scholars and of learned
societies like the Camden, the Spenser, the Percy, the Chaucer, the
Early English Text, the Roxburgh Club,--to mention only English
examples, taken at random and separated from each other by wide
intervals of time,--are instances of the labors by which mediaeval
life has been made familiar to all who might choose to make
acquaintance with it.

The history of romanticism, after the impulse had once been given,
is little else than a record or the steps by which, one after
another, new features of that vast and complicated scheme of things
which we loosely call the Middle Ages were brought to light and
made available as literary material.

The picture was constantly having fresh details added to it, nor
is there any reason to believe that it is finished yet.

Some of the finest pieces of mediaeval work have only within the
last few years been brought to the attention of the general reader;
_e.g._, the charming old French story in prose and verse, "Aucassin
et Nicolete," and the fourteenth-century English poem, "The Perle."

The future holds still other phases of romanticism in
reserve; the Middle Age seems likely to be as inexhaustible in
novel sources of inspiration as classical antiquity has already
proved to be.

The past belongs to the poet no less than the present, and a
great part of the literature of every generation will always be
retrospective.

The tastes and preferences of the individual artist will continue
to find a wide field for selection in the rich quarry of Christian
and feudal Europe.

It is not a little odd that the book which first aroused, in modern
Europe, an interest in Norse mythology should have been written by
a Frenchman.

This was the "Introduction à l'Histoire de Dannemarc,"
published in 1755 by Paul Henri Mallet, a native of Geneva and
sometime professor of Belles Lettres in the Royal University
at Copenhagen. The work included also a translation of the
first part of the Younger Edda, with an abstract of the second
part and of the Elder Edda, and versions of several Runic poems.

It was translated into English, in 1770, by Thomas Percy,
the editor of the "Reliques," under the title, "Northern Antiquities;
or a Description of the Manners, Customs, Religion, and Laws of the
ancient Danes."

A German translation had appeared a few years earlier and had
inspired the Schleswig-Holsteiner, Heinrich Wilhem von
Gerstenberg, to compose his "Gedicht eines Skalden," which introduced
the old Icelandic mythology into German poetry in 1766.

Percy had published independently in 1763 "Five Pieces of Runic
Poetry, translated from the Icelandic Language."

Gray did not wait for the English translation of Mallet's book.
In a letter to Mason, dated in 1758, and inclosing some
criticisims on the latter's "Caractacus" (then in MS.), he wrote,
"I am pleased with the Gothic Elysium.

Do you think I am ignorant about either that, or the _hell_ before,
or the _twilight_.[3] I have been there and have seen it all in
Mallet's 'Introduction to the History of Denmark' (it is in French),
and many other places."

It is a far cry from Mallet's "System of Runic Mythology" to
William Morris' "Sigurd the Volsung" (1877), but to Mallet
belongs the credit of first exciting that interest in Scandinavian
antiquity which has enriched the prose and poetry not only of England
but of Europe in general.

Gray refers to him in his notes on "The Descent of Odin," and his
work continued to be popular authority on its subject for at least
half a century.

Scott cites it in his annotations on "The Lay of the Last
Minstrel" (1805).

Gray's studies in Runic literature took shape in "The Fatal Sisters"
and "The Descent of Odin," written in 1761, published in 1768.

These were paraphrases of two poems which Gray found in the "De
Causis Contemnendae Mortis" (Copenhagen, 1689) of Thomas Bartholin,
a Danish physician of the seventeenth century.

The first of them describes the Valkyrie weaving the fates of
the Danish and Irish warriors in the battle of Clontarf,
fought in the eleventh century between Sigurd, Earl of Orkney,
and Brian, King of Dublin; the second narrates the descent of Odin
to Niflheimer, to inquire of Hela concerning the doom of Balder.[4]
Gray had designed these for the introductory chapter of his projected
history of English poetry.

He calls them imitations, which in fact they are, rather than literal
renderings.

In spite of a tinge of eighteenth-century diction, and of one or
two Shaksperian and Miltonic phrases, the translator succeeded
fairly well in reproducing the wild air of his originals. His
biographer, Mr. Gosse, promises that "the student will not
fail . . . in the Gothic picturesqueness of 'The Descent of Odin,'
to detect notes and phrases of a more delicate originality than are
to be found even in his more famous writings; and will dwell with
peculiar pleasure on those passages in which Gray freed himself of
the trammels of an artificial and conventional taste, and prophesied
of the new romantic age that was coming."

Celtic antiquity shared with Gothic in this newly around interest.
Here too, as in the phrase about "the stormy Hebrides," "Lycidas"
seems to have furnished the spark that kindled the imaginations of
the poets.

"Where were ye, nymphs, when the remorseless deep Closed o'er
the head of your loved Lycidas?
For neither were ye playing on the steep Where your old bards,
the famous Druids lie, Nor on the shaggy top of Mona high, Nor
yet where Deva spreads her wizard stream."

Joseph Warton quotes this passage twice in his "Essay on Pope" (Vol
I., pp. 7 and 356, 5th ed.), once to assert its superiority to a
passage in Pope's "Pastorals": "The mention of places remarkably
romantic, the supposed habitation of Druids, bards and wizards, is
far more pleasing to the imagination, than the obvious introduction
of Cam and Isis."

Another time, to illustrate the following suggestion: "I have
frequently wondered that our modern writers have made so little
use of the druidical times and the traditions of the old bards. . .

Milton, we see, was sensible of the force of such imagery,
as we may gather from this short but exquisite passage." As
further illustrations of the poetic capabilities of similar
themes, Warton gives a stanza from Gray's "Bard" and some lines
from Gilbert West's "Institution of the Order of the Garter" which
describe the ghosts of the Druids hovering about their ruined altars
at Stonehenge:
"--Mysterious rows Of rude enormous obelisks, that rise Orb within
orb, stupendous monuments Of artless architecture, such as now
Oft-times amaze the wandering traveler, By the pale moon discerned
on Sarum's plain."

He then inserts two stanzas, in the Latin of Hickes'
"Thesaurus," of an old Runic ode preserved by Olaus Wormius
(Ole Worm) and adds an observation upon the Scandinavian
heroes and their contempt of death.
Druids and bards now begin to abound. Collins' "Ode on the
Death of Mr.
Thomson," _e.g._, commences with the line
"In yonder grave a Druid lies."
In his "Ode to Liberty," he alludes to the tradition that Mona, the
druidic stronghold, was long covered with an enchantment of mist--work
of an angry mermaid:
"Mona, once hid from those who search the main, Where thousand elfin
shapes abide."

In Thomas Warton's "Pleasures of Melancholy," Contemplation is
fabled to have been discovered, when a babe, by a Druid
"Far in a hollow glade of Mona's woods,"
and borne by him to his oaken bower, where she
"--loved to lie Oft deeply listening to the rapid roar Of wood-hung
Menai, stream of druids old."

Mason's "Caractacus" (1759) was a dramatic poem on the Greek
model, with a chorus of British bards, and a principal Druid for
choragus.

The scene is the sacred grove in Mona.

Mason got up with much care the description of druidic rites,
such as the preparation of the adder-stone and the cutting of the
mistletoe with a gold sickle, from Latin authorities like Pliny,
Tacitus, Lucan, Strabo, and Suetonius.

Joseph Warton commends highly the chorus on "Death" in this piece,
as well as the chorus of bards at the end of West's "Institution
of the Garter."

For the materials of his "Bard" Gray had to go no farther than
historians and chroniclers such as Camden, Higden, and Matthew of
Westminster, to all of whom he refers.

Following a now discredited tradition, he represents the last
survivor of the Welsh poetic guild, seated, harp in hand, upon a
crag on the side of Snowdon, and denouncing judgment on Edward I,
for the murder of his brothers in song.

But in 1764 Gray was incited, by the publication of Dr. Evans'
"Specimens,"[5] to attempt a few translations from the Welsh.
The most considerable of these was "The Triumphs of Owen,"
published among Gray's collected poems in 1768.

This celebrates the victory over the confederate fleets of
Ireland, Denmark, and Normandy, won about 1160 by a prince of North
Wales, Owen Ap Griffin, "the dragon son on Mona."

The other fragments are brief but spirited versions of bardic songs
in praise of fallen heroes: "Caràdoc," "Conan," and "The Death of
Hoel."

They were printed posthumously, though doubtless composed in
1764.

The scholarship of the day was not always accurate in
discriminating between ancient systems of religion, and Gray,
in his letters to Mason in 1758, when "Caractacus" was still
in the works, takes him to task for mixing the Gothic and Celtic
mythologies. He instructs him that Woden and his Valhalla belong
to "the doctrine of the Scalds, not of the Bards"; but
admits that, "in that scarcity of Celtic ideas we labor
under," it might be permissible to borrow from the Edda,
"dropping, however, all mention of Woden and his Valkyrian
virgins," and "without entering too minutely on particulars";
or "still better, to graft any wild picturesque fable,
absolutely of one's own invention, upon the Druid stock." But
Gray had not scrupled to mix mythologies in "The Bard,"
thereby incurring Dr. Johnson's censure. "The weaving of the
winding sheet he borrowed, as he owns, from the northern bards;
but their texture, however, was very properly the work of
female powers, as the art of spinning the thread of life in
another mythology. Theft is always dangerous: Gray has made
weavers of the slaughtered bards, by a fiction outrageous and
incongruous."[6] Indeed Mallet himself had a very confused
notion of the relation of the Celtic to the Teutonic race. He
speaks constantly of the old Scandinavians as Celts. Percy
points out the difference, in the preface to his translation,
and makes the necessary correction in the text, where the
word Celtic occurs--usually by substituting "Gothic and Celtic"
for the "Celtic" of the original.

Mason made his contribution to Runic literature, "Song of
Harold the Valiant," a rather insipid versification of a passage
from the "Knytlinga Saga," which had been rendered by Bartholin
into Latin, from him into French by Mallet, and from Mallet into
English prose by Percy.

Mason designed it for insertion in the introduction to Gray's
abortive history of English poetry.

The true pioneers of the mediaeval revival were the Warton brothers.

"The school of Warton" was a term employed, not without disparaging
implications, by critics who had no liking for antique minstrelsy.

Joseph and Thomas Warton were the sons of Thomas Warton, vicar of
Basingstoke, who had been a fellow of Magdalen and Professor of
Poetry at Oxford; which latter position was afterward filled by the
younger of his two sons.

It is interesting to note that a volume of verse by Thomas Warton,
Sr., posthumously printed in 1748, includes a Spenserian imitation
and translations of two passages from the "Song of Ragner Lodbrog,"
an eleventh-century Viking, after the Latin version quoted by Sir Wm.

Temple in his essay "Of Heroic Virtue";[7] so that the
romantic leanings of the Warton brothers seem to be an instance
of heredity.

Joseph was educated at Winchester,--where Collins was his
schoolfellow--and both of the brothers at Oxford.

Joseph afterward became headmaster of Winchester, and lived till
1800, surviving his younger brother ten years. Thomas was
always identified with Oxford, where he resided for
forty-seven years. He was appointed, in 1785, Camden Professor
of History in the university, but gave no lectures. In the
same year he was chosen to succeed Whitehead, as Poet Laureate.
Both brothers were men of a genial, social temper. Joseph
was a man of some elegance; he was fond of the company of young
ladies, went into general society, and had a certain renown as a
drawing-room wit and diner-out.

He used to spend his Christmas vacations in London, where he was a
member of Johnson's literary club.

Thomas, on the contrary, who waxed fat and indolent in college
cloisters, until Johnson compared him to a turkey cock, was careless
in his personal habits and averse to polite society.

He was the life of a common room at Oxford, romped with the schoolboys
when he visited Dr.

Warton at Winchester, and was said to have a hankering after
pipes and ale and the broad mirth of the taproom.

Both Wartons had an odd passion for military parades; and Thomas--who
was a believer in ghosts--used secretly to attend hangings.

They were also remarkably harmonious in their tastes and
intellectual pursuits, eager students of old English poetry,
Gothic architecture, and British antiquities. So far as
enthusiasm, fine critical taste, and elegant scholarship can make
men poets, the Wartons were poets.

But their work was quite unoriginal. Many of their poems
can be taken to pieces and assigned, almost line by line and phrase
by phrase, to Milton, Thomson, Spenser, Shakspere, Gray.

They had all of our romantic poet Longfellow's dangerous gifts of
sympathy and receptivity, without a tenth part of his technical
skill, or any of his real originality as an artist.

Like Longfellow, they loved the rich and mellow atmosphere of
the historic past:

"Tales that have the rime of age, And chronicles of eld."

The closing lines of Thomas Warton's sonnet "Written
in a Blank Leaf of Dugdale's Monasticon"[8]--a favorite with Charles
Lamb--might have been written by Longfellow:
"Nor rough nor barren are the winding ways Of hoar Antiquity, but
strewn with flowers."

Joseph Warton's pretensions, as a poet, are much less than his
younger brother's. Much of Thomas Warton's poetry, such as his
_facetiae_ in the "Oxford Sausage" and his "Triumph of
Isis," had an academic flavor.

These we may pass over, as foreign to our present inquiries. So,
too, with most of his annual laureate odes, "On his Majesty's
Birthday," etc.

Yet even these official and rather perfunctory performances testify
to his fondness for what Scott calls "the memorials of our
forefathers' piety or splendor."

Thus, in the birthday odes for 1787-88, and the New
Year ode for 1787, he pays a tribute to the ancient minstrels and
to early laureates like Chaucer and Spenser, and celebrates "the
Druid harp" sounding "through the gloom profound of forests hoar";
the fanes and castles built by the Normans; and the
"--bright hall where Odin's Gothic throne With the broad blaze of
brandished falchions shone."

But the most purely romantic of Thomas Warton's poems are "The
Crusade" and "The Grave of King Arthur."

The former is the song which
"The lion heart Plantagenet Sang, looking through his prison-bars,"

when the minstrel Blondel came wandering in search of his
captive king.
The latter describes how Henry II., on his way to Ireland, was
feasted at Cilgarran Castle, where the Welsh bards sang
to him of the death of Arthur and his burial in Glastonbury
Abbey. The following passage anticipates Scott:

"Illumining the vaulted roof, A thousand torches flamed
aloof; From many cups, with golden gleam, Sparkled the red metheglin's
stream:
To grace the gorgeous festival, Along the lofty-windowed hall The
storied tapestry was hung; With minstrelsy the rafters rung Of harps
that with reflected light From the proud gallery glittered bright:
While gifted bards, a rival throng, From distant Mona, nurse of
song, From Teivi fringed with umbrage brown, From Elvy's vale and
Cader's crown, From many a shaggy precipice That shades Ierne's
hoarse abyss, And many a sunless solitude Of Radnor's inmost mountains
rude, To crown the banquet's solemn close Themes of British glory
chose."

One or the other seemed still in force with Winthrop's present
matter of speech, for he came before the fire and stood
mending it, and said nothing.

"Winthrop," said Rufus gravely, "have you any _particular_
reason to decline doing this business for me?"

Winthrop hesitated slightly, and then came forth one of those
same "no's," that Winnie knew by heart.

"Have you any particular reason to dislike it?"

"Yes. They were my friends once."

"But is your friendship for them stronger than for anybody
else?"

"It does not stand in the way of my duty to you, Will."

"Your _duty_ to me, --" said the other.

"Yes. I cannot in this instance call it pleasure."

It was the turn of Rufus to hesitate; for the face of his
brother expressed an absence of pleasure that to him, in the
circumstances, was remarkable.

"Then you do not refuse to undertake this job for me?"

"I will do what I can," said Winthrop, working at a large
forestick on the fire. How Winnie wished he would let it
alone, and place himself so that she could see him.

"And don't you think there is good prospect of our
succeeding?"

"If Chancery don't give it you, I'll take it to the Court of
Errors," said Winthrop, arranging the log to his satisfaction,
and then putting the rest of the fire in order.

"I'm sorry to give you trouble, Governor," his brother said
thoughtfully.

"I'm sorry you've got it to give, Will."

But Rufus went on looking into the fire, and seeming to get
deeper into the depths of something less bright as he looked.

"After all I am much the most to be pitied," he began. "I
thought to-day, Governor -- I did not know what would become of
me!"

"I can tell you that beforehand," said his brother. "You will
become, exactly, what you choose to make yourself."

"That is what you always say," returned Rufus a little
cynically.

"That is what I have found in my own practice," said Winthrop.
He put up the tongs and took his old seat by Winnie. Rufus
looked still into the fire.

"I am thrown out of this employment now," he said; -- "I am
disgusted with it -- and if I were not, there is no way for me
to follow it with advantage."

"I am not sorry for that, Will. I never liked it for you, nor
you for it."

"I have nothing to do. -- I am a loose pin in the Mosaic of
society -- the pattern is all made up without me."

"What pin has got your place?" said Winthrop.

"What do you mean?"

"Simply, that as in the nature of things there cannot be too
many pins, a pin that is out of place must be such by a
derelict of duty."

"What is my place?"

"If my word would set you in it, I would tell you."

"Tell me, and perhaps it will."

"I should bid you return to your engineer's work and serve God
in it."

"Very poor chance for serving God or man, in that work," said
Rufus. "Or myself."

"And no chance at all so long as you are doing nothing."

"I cannot bear to compare myself with you," -- Rufus went on
moodily.

"Compare yourself with yourself, Will, -- the actual with the
possible, -- and then go forward."

"What is possible in an engineer's life!" said Rufus.

"Everything is possible, in any place where Providence has put
you, for the future at least. And the firm purpose of serving
God in it, will dignify for the present any life.


"'A man that looks on glass
"'On it may stay his eye;
"'Or, if he pleaseth, through it pass,
"'And then the heaven espy!'"


Rufus met the grave slight smile on his brother's face, and
his eye watered.

"You are better than I am," he said with one of very different
meaning.

"If that be true to-day, Will, don't let it be true to-
morrow."

They wrung each other's hands, and the elder brother went
soberly away.


CHAPTER II.


An't be any way, it must be with valour; for Policy I hate: I
had as lief be a Brownist as a politician.
TWELFTH NIGHT.


The family at No. 11 on the Parade, were seated at breakfast
one morning towards the latter end of May; the old trio, only
with Elizabeth and Rose in each other's places.

"What is the reason Winthrop Landholm don't come here any
more?" said the latter lady.

"I don't know," said Mr. Haye, when the silence had threatened
the failure of any answer at all.

"What's the reason, Lizzie?"

"I don't know! -- how should I?"

"I am sure I can't tell," said Rose, "but I didn't know but
you did. I wish you'd ask him to come again, Mr. Haye -- do you
know how he is getting up in the world?"

"I know how cotton is falling," said Mr. Haye, swallowing his
tea and the newspaper apparently both at the same time.

"Cotton! --" said Rose. "Now Mr. Haye, just put down that paper
and listen to me; -- do you know how Winthrop Landholm is
holding his head up?"

"No," said Mr. Haye, looking at the pretty little head which
was holding itself up, over against him.

"Well, he is. You didn't hear what Mr. Satterthwaite was
saying about him last night, did you?"

"I didn't hear Mr. Satterthwaite say anything."

"Well he says he's had quite a great cause come on, now, just
a few days ago --"

"Who has? Mr. Satterthwaite?"

"Why no, Mr. Haye! -- of course! -- I mean Mr. Landholm has -- a
cause that he was to argue, you know -- that's what I mean --
before Chancellor Justice -- and Mr. Satterthwaite says he did
it splendidly! -- he said everybody stood and looked; -- and the
Chancellor gave him everything he asked for -- made all his
exceptions, he said, whatever that means --"

"_Allowed_ his exceptions," said Elizabeth.

"O you could listen when Mr. Satterthwaite was speaking of
Winthrop Landholm!"

"Mr. Satterthwaite don't often have so good a subject. I
listened certainly, and was very much interested; -- the only
time I ever remember Mr. Satterthwaite's saying anything I
cared to hear."

"Well, now, Mr. Haye, why isn't it just as well to say '_made_
an exception,' as '_allowed_ an exception'? I don't think
'allowed an exception' is good English."

"It is good law English, I suppose, Rose."

"Well, I don't care -- at any rate, he said the Chancellor
allowed every one of Mr. Landholm's exceptions, -- suppose _you_
understand it; -- and wouldn't allow a single thing to Mr.
Brick; and Mr. Brick was the lawyer on the other side; and Mr.
Satterthwaite said it was a great triumph for Mr. Landholm."

"Dustus O. Brick?" said Mr. Haye.

"Yes," said Elizabeth.

"I don't know," said Rose; "he said Mr. Brick, -- or the noted
Mr. Brick -- I suppose that's the man."

"Dustus O. Brick!" said Mr. Haye -- "he's one of the best men
in the bar, and a very clever man too; a distinguished lawyer;
there's no one more thought of."

"That's what Mr. Satterthwaite said, -- he said so, -- he said
it was a great triumph for Mr. Landholm; -- and now Mr. Haye,
_won't_ you ask him to come here again as he used to?"

"Who?"

"Winthrop Landholm."

"What for?"

"Why I want to _see_ him -- and so do you, Mr. Haye. Now Mr.
Haye, won't you? -- Though I don't know but Elizabeth would be
the best one to ask him."

"Why?" dryly said the master of the house.

"I guess he'd be more likely to come."

"If I thought so, and it were my part to do it, I certainly
should ask him," said Elizabeth. "There isn't any person so
pleasant as he to take his place, among all that come here."

"You were glad of what Mr. Satterthwaite told us last night
weren't you?" said Rose with a sinister smile.

"Very glad!"

"Did you ever hear Mr. Satterthwaite go on so about anybody?
One would have thought Mr. Landholm was his own brother. I
wonder if that was for your sake, Lizzie?"

"I presume it was for his own sake," said Elizabeth. "I should
think anybody who had the privilege of being Mr. Landholm's
friend, would know how to value it."

"_You_ would value it, for instance, I suppose?"

"I have no doubt I should."

"It seems to me you are a little too sure of valuing it," said
Mr. Haye, -- "for a young lady who has _not_ that privilege."

Elizabeth's cheeks burned on the instant, but her eye was
steady, and it looked full on her father while she asked him,

"Why, sir?"

"It is not worth while for you to like other people faster
than they like you?"

"Why not?" -- said Elizabeth, her cheek and eye both deepening
in their fire, but her look as steady and full, -- "Why not? --
if it should happen that I am less likeable than they?"

"Pshaw!" said Mr. Haye.

"If I were to gauge the respect and esteem I give others, by
the respect and esteem they might be able to give me, -- I
should cut off maybe the best pleasures of my life."

"Are respect and esteem the best pleasures of your life?" said
Rose satirically.

"I have never known any superior to them," said Elizabeth. But
she brought, as she spoke, her eye of fire to bear upon her
cousin, who gave way before it and was mum.

"And what may respect and esteem lead to?" said Mr. Haye.

"I don't know," said Elizabeth. "And I don't care -- even to
ask."

"Suppose they are not returned?"

"I have supposed that in the first place," she answered.

"At that rate you might be over head and ears in your regard
for several people at once, none of whom cared a straw for
you," said Mr. Haye.

"When I find _several_, men or women, that deserve the sort of
respect and esteem I am talking of," said Elizabeth -- "I am
not talking of a common kind, that you can give common people
-- I shall be in a new world!"

"And have you this sort of 'respect and esteem' for Mr.
Winthrop Landholm?" said her father.

"That's another question," said Elizabeth, for the first time
dropping her eye and speaking more quietly; -- "I was talking
of the general principle."

"And I am asking of the particular instance. Have you this
respect and esteem for this particular person of your
acquaintance?"

"I never gave it to many people in my life," said Elizabeth,
colouring again somewhat. "He has as fair a share of it as
most have."

"A little more?" said Mr. Haye smiling.

This time the answer she flashed at him was of proud and
indignant bar to any further questioning -- with her eyes only;
her lips did not move.

"Does he know it, Elizabeth?"

"Know what, sir?"

"This favour you have expressed for him."

"I have expressed nothing but what I would express for any one
to whom I thought it due."

"But I ask, does he know it?"

"I feel injured, father, by your asking me such questions! -- I
presume he does not know, since he has not had the honour of
being told!"

The air with which this was given was regal.

"I wouldn't tell him, Lizzie," said her father quietly.

But at the insinuation conveyed in these words, Elizabeth's
mood took another turn.

"I will tell whomsoever it may concern to know, at any time
when I see occasion," she answered. "It is not a thing to be
ashamed of; and I will neither do nor think anything I am
unwilling to own."

"You had better reform public opinion in the first place,"
said Mr. Haye dryly.

"Why?" she said with startling quickness.

"It is apt to hold rather light of young ladies who tell their
minds without being asked."

"How can you speak so, father! -- I said, _when I saw occasion_ --
it seems I have very much misjudged in the present instance."

"And as that might happen again," said Mr. Haye, "it is just
as safe, on the whole, that the person in question does not
come here any more. I am glad that I have advertised his place
for sale."

"_What!_" exclaimed Elizabeth and Rose both at once.

"Hush -- don't fire at a man in that way. His father's place, I
should say."

"_What_ have you done to it?" said Elizabeth.

"Advertised it for sale. You don't hear me as well as you do
Mr. Satterthwaite, it seems."

"How come you to have it to sell?"

"Because it was mortgaged to me -- years ago -- and I can't get
either principal or interest; so I am taking the best way I
can to secure my rights."

"But Mr. Landholm was your friend?"

"Certainly -- but I am a better friend to myself. Can't do
business with your friends on different principles from those
you go upon with other people, Lizzie."

Elizabeth looked at him, with eyes that would have annihilated
a large portion of Mr. Haye's principles, if they had been
sentient things. Rose began a running fire of entreaties that
_he_ would have nothing to do with Shahweetah, for that she
could not bear the place. Elizabeth brought her eyes back to
her plate, but probably she still saw Mr. Haye there, for the
expression of them did not change.

"_I'm_ not going to have anything to do with the place, Rose,"
said Mr. Haye -- "further than to get it off my hands. I don't
want to live there any more than you do. All I want to do is
to pay myself."

"Father," said Elizabeth looking up quietly, "_I'll_ buy it of
you."

"_You!_" said Mr. Haye, -- while Rose went off into a succession
of soft laughs.

"Do you care who does it, so that you get the money?"

"No, -- but what will you do with it?"

"Find a way, in time, of conveying it back to its right
owners," said Rose. "Don't you see, Mr. Haye?"

Elizabeth favoured her with a look which effectually spiked
that little gun, for the time, and turned her attention again
to her father.

"Do you care who buys it of you, so that you get the money?"

"Why, no -- but you don't want such a piece of property,
Lizzie."

"I want just such a piece of property."

"But my child, you can't manage it. It would be an absurd
spending of _your_ money. There's a farm of two or three hundred
acres -- more, -- besides woodland. What could you do with it?"

"Trust me to take care of my own. May I have it, father?"

"Mr. Haye! --" Rose put in, pouting and whimpering, -- "I wish
you'd tell Lizzie she's not to look at me so! --"

"Will you sell it to me?" pursued Elizabeth.

"If you'll promise it shall not go back to the original owners
in any such way as Rose hinted."

"Are those your terms of sale?" said Elizabeth. "Because,
though I may not choose to submit myself to them, I can find
you another purchaser."

"What do you want of a great piece of land like that?"

"Nothing; I want the land itself."

"You can't do anything with it."

"It don't signify, if it all grows up to nettles!" said
Elizabeth. "Will you take the money of me and let me take the
land of you?"

"Hum --" said Mr. Haye, -- "I think you have enlightened me too
much this morning. No -- I'll find a more disinterested
purchaser; and let it teach you to take care of your eyes as
well as your tongue."

Rose bridled. Mr. Haye got up leisurely from the breakfast-
table and was proceeding slowly to the door, when his path was
crossed by his daughter. She stood still before him.

Some enchanters befriended and others opposed him. To do his
mistress honor, and to prove himself worthy of her, he was made
to encounter the warrior, hew down the giant, cut the dragon
in pieces, break the spell of the necromancer, demolish the enchanted
castle, fly through the air on wooden or winged horses, or, with
some magician for his guide, to descend unhurt through the opening
earth and traverse the caves in the bottom of the ocean.

He detected and punished the false knight, overthrew or converted
the infidel, restored the exiled monarch to his dominions
and the captive damsel to her parents; he fought at the tournament,
feasted in the hall, and bore a part in the warlike processions."

There is nothing very startling in these conclusions. Scholars
like Percy, Tyrwhitt, and Ritson, who, as collectors and
editors, rescued the fragments of ancient ministrelsy and gave the
public access to concrete specimens of mediaeval poetry, performed
a more useful service than mild clerical essayists, such as Beattie
and Hurd, who amused their leisure with general speculations about
the origin of romance and whether it came in the first instance
from the troubadours or the Saracens or the Norsemen.

One more passage, however, may be transcribed from Beattie's
"Dissertation," because it seems clearly a suggestion from
"The Castle of Otranto." "The castles of the greater barons,
reared in a rude but grand style of architecture, full of dark
and winding passages, of secret apartments, of long uninhabited
galleries, and of chambers supposed to be haunted with
spirits, and undermined by subterraneous labyrinths as places of
retreat in extreme danger; the howling of winds through the crevices
of old walls and other dreary vacuities; the grating of heavy doors
on rusty hinges of iron; the shrieking of bats and the screaming
of owls and other creatures that resort to desolate or half-inhabited
buildings; these and the like circumstances in the domestic life
of the people I speak of, would multiply their superstitions and
increase their credulity; and among warriors who set all danger at
defiance, would encourage a passion for wild adventure and difficult
enterprise."

One of the books reviewed by Miss Reeve is worth mentioning,
not for its intrinsic importance, but for its early date.
"Longsword, Earl of Salisbury, An Historical Romance," in two
volumes, and published two years before "The Castle of Otranto,"
is probably the first fiction of the kind in English literature.
Its author was Thomas Leland, an Irish historian and doctor
of divinity.[16] "The outlines of the following story,"
begins the advertisement, "and some of the incidents and more
minute circumstances, are to be found in some of the ancient English
histories."

The period of the action is the reign of Henry III. The king
is introduced in person, and when we hear him swearing "by
my Halidome," we rub our eyes and ask, "Can this be Scott?"

But we are soon disabused, for the romance, in spite of the words
of the advertisement, is very little historical, and the fashion
of it is thinly wordy and sentimental.

The hero is the son of Henry II. and Fair Rosamond, but his speech
is Grandisonian.

The adventures are of the usual kind: the _dramatis
personae_ include gallant knights who go a-tilting with their
ladies' gloves upon their casques, usurpers, villains, pirates, a
wicked monk who tries to poison the hero, an oppressed countess, a
distressed damsel disguised as a page, a hermit who has a cave in
a mountain side, etc.

The Gothic properties are few; though the frontispiece to the
first volume represents a cowled monk raising from the ground
the figure of a swooning knight in complete armor, in
front of an abbey church with an image of the Virgin and
Child sculptured in a niche above the door; and the building
is thus described in the text: "Its windows crowded with the
foliage of their ornaments, and dimmed by the hand of the
painter; its numerous spires towering above the roof, and the
Christian ensign on its front, declared it a residence of devotion
and charity."

An episode in the story narrates the death of a father by the hand
of his son in the Barons' War of Henry III.

But no farther advantage is taken of the historic background
afforded by this civil conflict, nor is Simon de Montfort so much
as named in the whole course of the book.

Clara Reeve was the daughter of a clergyman.

She lived and died at Ipswich (1725-1803). Walter Scott
contributed a memoir of her to "Ballantyne's Novelists'
Library," in which he defended Walpole's frank use of the supernatural
against her criticisms, quoted above, and gave the preference to
Walpole's method.[17] She acknowledged that her romance was a
"literary descendant of 'Otranto';" but the author of the latter,
evidently nettled by her strictures, described "The Old English
Baron," as "Otranto reduced to reason and probability," and declared
that any murder trial at the Old Bailey would have made a more
interesting story.

Such as it is, it bridges the interval between its model and the
novels of Mrs.

Radcliffe, Lewis' "Monk" (1795), and Maturin's "Fatal Revenge,
or the Family of Montorio" (1807).[18]
Anne Radcliffe--born Ward in 1764, the year of "Otranto"--was the
wife of an editor, who was necessarily absent from home much of the
time until late at night.

A large part of her writing was done to amuse her loneliness in the
still hours of evening; and the wildness of her imagination, and
the romantic love of night and solitude which pervades her books,
are sometimes accounted for in this way.

In 1809 it was currently reported and believed that Mrs. Radcliffe
was dead. Another form of the rumor was that she had been insane
by continually poring over visions of horror and mystery. Neither
report was true; she lived till 1823, in full possession of her
faculties, although she published nothing after 1797.

The circulation of such stories shows how retired, and even
obscure, a life this very popular writer contrived to lead.

It would be tedious to give here an analysis of these once
famous fictions _seriatim_.[19] They were very long, very much
alike, and very much overloaded with sentiment and description.

The plots were complicated and abounded in the wildest improbabilities
and in those incidents which were once the commonplaces of romantic
fiction and which realism has now turned out of doors: concealments,
assassinations, duels, disguises, kidnappings, escapes, elopements,
intrigues, forged documents, discoveries of old crimes, and
identifications of lost heirs.

The characters, too, were of the conventional kind. There were
dark-browed, crime-stained villains--forerunners, perhaps
of Manfred and Lara, for the critics think that Mrs.

Radcliffe's stories were not without important influence on
Byron.[20] There were high-born, penitent dames who retired to
convents in expiation of sins which are not explained
until the general raveling of clews in the final chapter. There
were bravoes, banditti, feudal tyrants, monks, inquisitors,
soubrettes, and simple domestics _a la_ Bianca, in Walpole's
romance. The lover was of the type adored by our
great-grandmothers, handsome, melancholy, passionate,
respectful but desperate, a user of most choice English; with
large black eyes, smooth white forehead, and jetty curls,
now sunk, Mr. Perry says, to the covers of prune boxes. The
heroine, too, was sensitive and melancholy.

When alone upon the seashore or in the mountains, at sunset or
twilight, or under the midnight moon, or when the wind is blowing,
she overflows into stanza or sonnet, "To Autumn," "To Sunset," "To
the Bat," "To the Nightingale," "To the Winds," "To Melancholy,"
"Song of the Evening Hour."

We have heard this pensive music drawing near in the strains of the
Miltonic school, but in Mrs.

Radcliffe the romantic gloom is profound and all-pervading. In
what pastures she had fed is manifest from the verse captions that
head her chapters, taken mainly from Blair, Thomson, Warton, Gray,
Collins, Beattie, Mason, and Walpole's "Mysterious Mother."

Here are a few stanzas from her ode "To Melancholy":

"Spirit of love and sorrow, hail!
Thy solemn voice from far I hear, Mingling with evening's dying
gale:
Hail, with thy sadly pleasing tear!

"O at this still, this lonely hour-- Thine own sweet hour of
closing day-- Awake thy lute, whose charmful power Shall call
up fancy to obey:

"To paint the wild, romantic dream That meets the poet's closing
eye, As on the bank of shadowy stream He breathes to her the fervid
sigh.

"O lonely spirit, let thy song Lead me through all thy sacred
haunt, The minster's moonlight aisles along Where specters raise
the midnight chant."

In Mrs. Radcliffe's romances we find a tone that is absent from
Walpole's: romanticism plus sentimentalism.

This last element had begun to infuse itself into general
literature about the middle of the century, as a protest
and reaction against the emotional coldness of the classical
age. It announced itself in Richardson, Rousseau, and the
youthful Goethe; in the _comédie larmoyante_, both French and
English; found its cleverest expression in Sterne, and then, becoming
a universal vogue, deluged fiction with productions like Mackenzie's
"Man of Feeling," Miss Burney's "Evelina," and the novels of Jane
Porter and Mrs.

Opie.
Thackeray said that there was more crying in "Thaddeus
of Warsaw" than in any novel he ever remembered to have
read.[21] Emily, in the "Mysteries of Udolpho" cannot see the
moon, or hear a guitar or an organ or the murmur of the
pines, without weeping. Every page is bedewed with the tear of
sensibility; the whole volume is damp with it, and ever and
anon a chorus of sobs goes up from the entire company.

Mrs. Radcliffe's heroines are all descendents of Pamela and
Clarissa Harlowe, but under more romantic circumstances. They
are beset with a thousand difficulties; carried off by masked
ruffians, immured in convents, held captive in robber
castles, encompassed with horrors natural and supernatural,
persecuted, threatened with murder and with rape. But
though perpetually sighing, blushing, trembling, weeping,
fainting, they have at bottom a kind of toughness that endures
through all. They rebuke the wicked in stately language,
full of noble sentiments and moral truths. They preserve
the most delicate feelings of propriety in situations the most
discouraging. Emily, imprisoned in the gloomy castle of Udolpho,
in the power of ruffians whose brawls and orgies fill night
and day with horror, in hourly fear for her virtue and her
life, sends for the lord of the castle,--whom she believes
to have murdered her aunt,--and reminds him that, as her
protectress is now dead, it would not be proper for her to
stay any longer under his roof thus unchaperoned, and will
he please, therefore, send her home?

Mrs. Radcliffe's fictions are romantic, but not usually mediaeval
in subject. In the "Mysteries of Udolpho," the period of
the action is the end of the sixteenth century; in the "Romance
of the Forest," 1658; in "The Italian," about 1760.
But her machinery is prevailingly Gothic and the real hero
of the story is commonly, as in Walpole, some haunted building.
In the "Mysteries of Udolpho" it is a castle in the Apennines;
in the "Romance of the Forest," a deserted abbey in the
depth of the woods; in "The Italian," the cloister of the
Black Penitents.

The moldering battlements, the worm-eaten tapestries, the
turret staircases, secret chambers, underground passages,
long, dark corridors where the wind howls dismally, and
distant doors which slam at midnight all derive from "Otranto."

So do the supernatural fears which haunt these abodes of
desolation; the strains of mysterious music, the apparitions
which glide through the shadowy apartments, the hollow voices that
warn the tyrant to beware.

But her method here is quite different from Walpole's; she tacks
a natural explanation to every unearthly sight or sound.

The hollow voices turn out to be ventriloquism; the figure of a
putrefying corpse which Emily sees behind the black curtain in the
ghost chamber at Udolpho is only a wax figure, contrived as a
_memento mori_ for a former penitent.

After the reader has once learned this trick he refuses
to be imposed upon again, and, whenever he encounters a spirit,
feels sure that a future chapter will embody it back into
flesh and blood.

There is plenty of testimony to the popularity of these
romances.
Thackeray says that a lady of his acquaintance, an inveterate
novel reader, names Valancourt as one of the favorite heroes
of her youth.
"'Valancourt? And who was he?' cry the young people.

Valancourt, my dears, was the hero of one of the most famous romances
which ever was published in this country.

The beauty and elegance of Valancourt made your young grandmamma's'
gentle hearts to beat with respectful sympathy.
He and his glory have passed away. . . Enquire at Mudie's or the
London Library, who asks for the 'Mysteries of Udolpho' now

."[22] Hazlitt said that he owed to Mrs. Radcliffe his love
of moonlight nights, autumn leaves and decaying ruins.

It was, indeed, in the melodramatic manipulation of landscape
that this artist was most original. "The scenes that savage Rosa
dashed" seemed to have been her model, and critics who were fond
of analogy called her the Salvator Rosa of fiction.

It is here that her influence on Byron and Chateaubriand is most
apparent.[23] Mrs.

Radcliffe's scenery is not quite to our modern taste, any more than
are Salvator's paintings.

Her Venice by moonlight, her mountain gorges with their black
pines and foaming torrents, are not precisely the Venice and the
Alps of Ruskin; rather of the operatic stage.

Still they are impressive in their way, and in this department
she possessed genuine poetic feels and a real mastery of the art
of painting in distemper.

Witness the picture of the castle of Udolpho, on Emily's first
sight of it, and the hardly less striking description, in the
"Romance of the Forest," of the ruined abbey in which the La
Motte family take refuge: "He approached and perceived the Gothic
remains of an abbey: it stood on a kind of rude lawn, overshadowed
by high and spreading trees, which seemed coeval with the building,
and diffused a romantic gloom around.

The greater part of the pile appeared to be sinking into ruins,
and that which had withstood the ravages of time showed the
remaining features of the fabric more awful in decay.

The lofty battlements, thickly enwreathed with ivy,
were half demolished and become the residence of birds of
prey. Huge fragments of the eastern tower, which was almost
demolished, lay scattered amid the high grass, that waved slowly
in the breeze.

'The thistle shook its lonely head: the moss whistled
to the wind.'[24] A Gothic gate, richly ornamented with
fretwork, which opened into the main body of the edifice,
but which was now obstructed with brushwood, remained entire.
Above the vast and magnificent portal of this gate arose a
window of the same order, whose pointed arches still exhibited
fragments of stained glass, once the pride of monkish devotion.

La Motte, thinking it possible it might yet shelter some human
being, advanced to the gate and lifted a massy knocker.

The hollow sounds rung through the emptiness of the place.

After waiting a few minutes, he forced back the gate, which was
heavy with iron-work, and creaked harshly on its hinges. . .

From this chapel he passed into the nave of the great church, of
which one window, more perfect than the rest, opened upon a long
vista of the forest, through which was seen the rich coloring of
evening, melting by imperceptible gradations into the solemn gray
of upper air."

Mrs. Radcliffe never was in Italy or Switzerland or the
south of France; she divined the scenery of her romances from
pictures and descriptions at second hand.

But she accompanied her husband in excursions to the Lakes
and other parts of England, and in 1794 made the tour of the
Rhine.[25] The passages in her diary, recording these travels, are
much superior in the truthfulness and local color of their nature
sketching to anything in her novels.

Mrs. Radcliffe is furthermore to be credited with a certain
skill in producing terror, by the use of that favorite weapon in
the armory of the romanticists, mystery.

If she did not invent a new shudder, as Hugo said of Baudelaire,
she gave at least a new turn to the old-fashioned ghost story.

She creates in her readers a feeling of impending danger,
suspense, foreboding.

There is a sense of unearthly presences in these vast, empty
rooms; the silence itself is ominous; echoes sound like footfalls,
ghostly shadows lurk in dark corners, whispers come from behind the
arras, as it stirs in the gusts of wind.[26] The heroine is afraid
to look in the glass lest she should see another face there beside
her own; her lamp expires and leaves her in the dark just as she
is coming to the critical point in the manuscript which she has
found in an old chest, etc., etc., But the tale loses its impressiveness
as soon as it strays beyond the shade of the battlements.

The Gothic castle or priory is still, as in Walpole, the nucleus
of the story.

Two of these romances, the earliest and the latest, though they
are the weakest of the series, have a special interest for us as
affording points of comparison with the Waverly novels.

"The Castles of Athlin and Dunbayne" is the narrative of a feud
between two Highland clans, and its scene is the northeastern coast
of Scotland, "in the most romantic part of the Highlands," where
the castle of Athlin--like Uhland's "Schloss am Meer"--stood "on
the summit of a rock whose base was in the sea."

This was a fine place for storms.

"The winds burst in sudden squalls over the deep and dashed the
foaming waves against the rocks with inconceivable fury. The
spray, notwithstanding the high situation of the castle, flew up
with violence against the windows. . .

The moon shone faintly by intervals, through broken
clouds, upon the waters, illumining the white foam which burst
around. . .

The surges broke on the distant shores in deep resounding
murmurs, and the solemn pauses between the stormy gusts filled the
mind with enthusiastic awe."

Perhaps the description slightly reminds of the picture, in
"Marmion," of Tantallon Castle, the hold of the Red Douglases on
the German Ocean, a little north of Berwick, whose frowning towers
have recently done duty again in Stevenson's "David Balfour."

The period of the action is but vaguely indicated; but, as the
weapons used in the attack on the castle are bows and arrows, we
may regard the book as mediaeval in intention. Scott
says that the scene of the romance was Scotland in the dark
ages, and complains that the author evidently knew nothing of
Scottish life or scenery.

This is true; her castles might have stood anywhere.

There is no mention of the pipes or the plaid.

Her rival chiefs are not Gaelic caterans, but just plain feudal
lords.

Her baron of Dunbayne is like any other baron; or rather, he is
unlike any baron that ever was on sea or land or anywhere else
except in the pages of a Gothic romance.

"Gaston de Blondville" was begun in 1802 and published posthumously
in 1826, edited by Sergeant Talfourd.

Its inspiring cause was a visit which the author made in the
autumn of 1802 to Warwick Castle and the ruins of Kenilworth.

The introduction has the usual fiction of an old manuscript found
in an oaken chest dug up from the foundation of a chapel of
Black Canons at Kenilworth: a manuscript richly illuminated with
designs at the head of each chapter--which are all duly described--and
containing a "trew chronique of what passed at Killingworth, in
Ardenn, when our Soveren Lord the Kynge kept ther his Fest of Seynt
Michel: with ye marveylous accident that there befell at the
solempnissacion of the marriage of Gaston de Blondeville.

With divers things curious to be known thereunto purtayning.

With an account of the grete Turney there held in the year
MCCLVI. Changed out of the Norman tongue by Grymbald, Monk
of Senct Marie Priori in Killingworth."

Chatterton's forgeries had by this time familiarized the public
with imitations of early English.

August came.

"Winnie," said he one evening, when he came home and found her
lying on her couch as usual, -- "how would you like to go up
and pay Karen a visit?"

"Karen?" -- said Winnie, -- "where?"

"At home. -- At Wut-a-qut-o."

"Wut-a-qut-o!" said Winnie; -- "is Karen there? I thought
Shahweetah was sold."

"It isn't sold yet -- it won't be till September -- and Karen is
there yet, keeping house with her brother Anderese."

"Anderese! -- is old Anderese there?" said Winnie. "O I should
like to go, Governor!" she said raising herself on her elbow.
"Can we?"

"Yes, if you like. Hildebrand Cowslip is down here with his
father's sloop -- how would you like to go up in her?"

"In the sloop? -- O how good!" said Winnie bringing her thin
hands together. "Can we? But dear Governor, you can't be
away?"

"Yes -- just as well as not. There isn't much doing in August --
everybody takes a resting time; and so you and I will,
Winnie," said he, bending down to kiss her.

Winnie looked up at him gratefully and lovingly with her
wistful large eyes, the more expressive from the setting of
illness and weakness in the face.

"I'd like you to have a rest, dear Governor."

He stood stroking back the ringlets from the thin blue-veined
temple.

"Wouldn't it do you good to see Wut-a-qut-o again?"

"O I am sure it would! -- And you too, wouldn't it?"

"I am good enough already," said Winthrop looking down at her.

"Too good," said Winnie looking up at him. "I guess you want
pulling down!"

She had learned to read his face so well, that it was with a
pang she saw the look with which he turned off to his work. A
stranger could not have seen in it possibly anything but his
common grave look; to Winnie there was the slight shadow of
something which seemed to say the "pulling down" had not to be
waited for. So slight that she could hardly tell it was there,
yet so shadowy she was sure it had come from something. It was
not in the look merely -- it was in the air, -- it was, she did
not know what, but she felt it and it made her miserable. She
could not see it after the first minute; his face and
shoulders, as he sat reading his papers, had their usual calm
stability; Winnie lay looking at him, outwardly calm too, but
mentally tossing and turning.

She could not bear it. She crawled off her couch and came and
sat down at his feet, throwing her arms around his knee and
looking up at him.

"Dear Governor! -- I wish you had whatever would do you good!"

"The skill of decyphering would do me a little good just now,"
said her brother. She could detect nothing peculiar in look or
word, though Winnie's eyes did their best.

"But somehow I don't feel as if you had," she went on to say.

"Where is your faith?" -- he said quietly, as he made a note in
the margin of the paper he was reading. Winnie could make
nothing of him.

"Governor, when shall we go?"

"Hildebrand moves his sloop off to-morrow afternoon."

"And shall we go to-morrow?"

"If you don't object."

Winnie left the floor, clapping her hands together, and went
back to her couch to think over at large the various
preparations which she must make. Which pleasant business held
her all the evening.

They were not large preparations, however; longer to think of
than to do; especially as Winthrop took upon himself the most
of what was done. One or two nick-nackeries of preparation, in
the shape of a new basket, a new book, and a new shawl, seemed
delightful to Winnie; though she did not immediately see what
she might want of the latter in August.

"We shall find it cooler when we get under the shadow of Wut-
a-qut-o, Winnie," said her brother; and Winnie was only too
glad of a pretext to take the pretty warm wrapper of grey and
blue worsted along.

She did not want it when they set out, the next afternoon. It
was very warm in the streets, very warm on the quays; and even
when the sloop pushed her way slowly out and left the quays at
her back, there was little air stirring and the August sun
beat down steadily on river and shore.

"This don't look much like gettin' up to Cowslip's Mill _this_
night," said the skipper. "Ain't it powerful!"

"The wind is coming off from the South," said Winthrop.

"Yes, I felt some little puffs on my cheek," said Winnie.

"Glad to hear it," said the sloop master, a tall, bony, ill-
set-together specimen of a shore and water man; -- "there ain't
enough now to send an egg-shell along, and I'd like to shew
you a good run, Mr. Landholm, since you're goin' along with
me. She looks smart, don't she?"

"If she'll only work as well," said Winthrop. "Hild', you
haven't got much cargo aboard."

"Only as much as'll keep her steady," answered the skipper.
"'Seems to me nobody ain't a wantin' nothin' up our ways. I
guess you're the heaviest article on board, Winthrop; -- she
never carried a lawyer before."

"Are lawyers heavy articles?" said Winnie laughing.

"'Cordin' to what I've heern, I should say they be; ain't
they, squire? -- considerable, -- especially when they get on
folks's hands. I hope you're a better sort, Winthrop, -- or
ain't there much choice in 'em?"

"You shall try me when you get into trouble," said Winthrop.

"Is this Mr. Cowslip's old sloop?" said Winnie.

"She don't look old, does she?" inquired Mr. Hildebrand.

"But I mean, is it the same he used to have? -- No, she looks
very handsome indeed."

"She's the old one though," said the skipper, "the same old
Julia Ann. What's the use o' askin' ladies' ages? -- she's just
as good as when she was young; and better dressed. I've had
the cabin fixed up for you, Mr. Landholm, -- I guess it'll be
pretty comfortable in there."

"It's a great deal pleasanter here," said Winnie. "There comes
the wind! -- that was a puff! --"

"Well we're ready for it," said the skipper.

And stronger puffs came after, and soon a steady fair
southerly breeze set up the river and sent the Julia Ann on
before it. Straight up the river their course lay, without
veering a point for miles. The sun was lowering towards the
horizon and the heat was lessening momently, even without the
south breeze which bade it be forgotten; and the blue waters
of the river, so sluggish a little while ago, were briskly
curling and rippling, and heading like themselves for Wut-a-
qut-o.

Winnie sat still and silent in the shadow of the huge sail.
Winthrop was standing close beside her, talking with the
skipper; but he knew that his little sister had hold of his
hand and had laid her unbonneted head against his arm; and
when the skipper left him he stooped down to her.

"What do you think of it, Winnie?"

"O Winthrop! -- how delicious! -- Aren't you glad it is such
beautiful world?"

"What are you thinking of in particular?"

"O everything. It isn't down here like Wut-a-qut-o, but
everything is so delicious -- the water and the shore and the
sunshine and the wind! --"

"Poor Winnie," said her brother stroking her hair, -- "you
haven't seen it in a good while."

She looked up at him, a glance which touchingly told him that
where he was she wanted nothing; and then turned her eyes
again towards the river.

"I was thinking, Governor, that maybe I shall never go up here
again."

"Well Winnie? --"

"I am very glad I can go this time. I am so much obliged to
you for bringing me."

"Obliged to me, Winnie!"

He had placed himself behind his little sister, with one hand
holding her lightly by each shoulder; and calm as his tone
was, perhaps there came a sudden thought of words that he knew
very well --


"There fairer flowers than Eden's bloom,
"Nor sin nor sorrow know;
"Blest seats! through rude and stormy seas
"I onward press to you." --


For he was silent, though his face wore no more than its
ordinary gravity.

"Governor," said Winnie half turning her head round to him, "I
wish these people were not all round here within hearing, so
that we could sing. -- I feel just like it."

"By and by, Winnie, I dare say we can."

"How soon do you think we shall get to Wut-a-qut-o."

"Before morning, if the wind holds."

The wind held fair and rather strengthened than lost, as the
evening went on. Under fine headway the Julia Ann swept up the
river, past promontory and bay, nearing and nearing her goal.
Do her best, however, the Julia Ann could not bring them that
night to any better sleeping advantages than her own little
cabin afforded; and for those Winthrop and Winnie were in no
hurry to leave the deck. After the skipper's hospitality had
been doubtfully enjoyed at supper, and after they had
refreshed themselves with seeing the sun set and watching the
many-coloured clouds he left behind him, the moon rose in the
other quarter and threw her 'silver light' across the deck,
just as duskiness was beginning to steal on. The duskiness
went on and shrouded the hills and the distant reaches of the
river in soft gloom; but on board the Julia Ann, on her white
sails and deck floor where the brother and sister were
sitting, and on a broad pathway of water between them and the
moon, her silver light threw itself with brightening and
broadening power. By and by Mr. Hildebrand's two or three
helpers disposed of themselves below deck, and nobody was left
but Mr. Hildebrand himself at the helm.

"Now we can sing!" exclaimed Winnie, when one or two turns of
her head had made her sure of this; and to Winthrop's surprise
she struck up the very words part of which had been in his own
remembrance.


"'Jerusalem! my happy home --
"'Name ever dear to me --
"'When shall my labours have an end,
"' In joy and peace in thee!"'


Winnie's voice was as sweet and clear as a bird's, if weakness
left it not much stronger; that of her brother was deep,
mellow, and exceeding fine; it was no wonder that the skipper
turned his head and forgot his tiller to catch the fulness of
every note. When the last had sounded, there was nothing to be
heard but the rippling of water under the sloop's prow; the
sails were steady and full, the moonlight not more noiseless;
the wind swept on with them softly, just giving a silent
breath to their cheeks; the skipper held his tiller with a
moveless hand.

"What next, Winnie?" her brother whispered. The soft gurgle of
the water had been heard for several minutes.

"How fond Karen is of that hymn," said Winifred. "Governor, do
you think I shall live long in this world?"

She was leaning, half lying, upon Winthrop, with his arm round
her. Her voice had put the question in precisely the same tone
that it had given the remark.

"Why do you ask me that, Winnie?"

"Because -- sometimes I think I sha'n't, -- and I want to know
what you think."

"You will live, I am sure, dear Winnie, till God has done for
you all he means to do; -- till he has fitted his child for
heaven; -- and then he will take her."

"I know that," said Winifred with a grateful half look up at
him; -- "but I mean -- you know I am not well quite, and weak,
and I don't think I get any better; -- don't you think that it
won't take a very great while, very likely?"

"How would you feel, Winnie, if you thought that was so?"

"I _do_ think it sometimes -- pretty often," -- said Winnie, "and
it don't make me feel sorry, Governor."

"You think heaven is better than earth."

"Yes, --and then -- that's one good thing of my sickness -- it
don't seem as if I ever could do much if I lived, so it
matters the less."

"Nobody knows how much he does, who does his duty," said
Winthrop.

"Why I can't do anything at all!" said Winnie.

"Every talent that isn't buried brings something into the
treasury," said Winthrop.

"Yes -- that's pleasant," said Winnie; -- "but I don't know what
mine is."

"The good that people do unconsciously is often more than that
they intend."

"Unconsciously! -- But then they don't know whether they do it
or not?"

"It don't hurt them, not to know," said her brother smiling.

"But what sort of good-doing is that, Winthrop?"

"It only happens in the case of those persons whose eye is
very single; -- with their eye full of the light they are
reflecting, they cannot see the reflection. But it is said of
those that 'their works do follow them.'"

Winnie was tearfully silent, thinking of the ingathering of
joy there would be for one that she knew; and if Winthrop's
arm was drawn a little closer round her little figure, perhaps
it was with a like thought for her. How bright the moonlight
shone!

"That's pleasant to think, Governor, -- both parts of it," said
Winifred softly, beating his hand slightly with one of her
own. He was silent.

"Now won't you sing something else? -- for I'm tired," she
said, nestling her head more heavily on his breast.

And he sang again. --


"'Vain are all terrestrial pleasures,
"' Mixed with dross the purest gold;
"'Seek we then for heavenly treasures,
"'Treasures never growing old.
"'Let our best affections centre
"'On the things around the throne;
"'There no thief can ever enter, --
"'Moth and rust are there unknown.


"'Earthly joys no longer please us,
"'Here would we renounce them all,
"'Seek our only rest in Jesus,
"'Him our Lord and Master call.
"'Faith, our languid spirits cheering,
"'Points to brighter worlds above;
"'Bids us look for his appearing,
"'Bids us triumph in his love.


"'Let our lights be always burning,
"'And our loins be girded round,
"'Waiting for our Lord's returning,
"'Longing for the joyful sound.
"'Thus the christian life adorning,
"'Never need we be afraid,
"'Should he come at night or morning,
"'Early dawn, or evening shade."'


The air was slow, tender, and plaintive, and borne by the deep
voice over all the breadth of the moon-lit river. Winnie's
breath was fuller drawn; the skipper held his, and forgot his
helm; and in every pause of the song, the sweet interlude was
played by the water under the sloop's prow.

"Governor --" said Winnie, when the bubbling water had been
listened to alone for a while.

"What?"

"Do you think those words are quite true?"

"Those words of the hymn?"

"Yes -- some of them. I think you like that hymn better than I
do. 'Earthly joys no longer please us'; -- do you think that is
right? -- They please me."

"It is only by comparison that they can be true, Winnie,
certainly; -- except in the case of those persons whose power
of enjoyment is by some reason or other taken away."

"But you like that hymn very much?"

"Yes. Don't you?"

"I like part of it very much, and I like the tune; but I like
to be able to say all the words of a hymn. How sweet that was!
-- Governor, don't you think it would be pleasant to stay here
all night?"

"Singing?"

"No -- but talking, and sleeping."

"I am afraid it would sadly hinder to-morrow's talk, and
oblige you to sleep instead."

"Then I'll go right away. Do you think we shall be at Wut-a-
qut-o in the morning?"

"If the wind holds."

By Winthrop's care and management the little cabin was made
not absolutely uncomfortable, and Winnie's bed was laid on the
floor between door and window so that she could sleep without
being smothered. He himself mounted guard outside, and
sleeping or waking kept the deck for the whole night.

"Governor," said Winnie cautiously putting her head out at the
door, just as the summer dawn was growing into day, --
"Governor! -- are we there?"

"We are _here_."

"Where?"

"Lying at Cowslip's Mill."

"Oh! --"

The rest of Winnie's joyous thought was worked into her shoes
and dress and bonnet-strings, and put away in her bag with her
night-cap. How fast it was all done! and she pushed open her
cabin door and stood on the deck with Winthrop.

Yes -- there was the green wooded shore -- how fresh to her
eyes! -- There was Mr. Cowslip's brown old house and mill;
there was the old stage road; and turning, there two miles off
lay Shahweetah, and there rose up Wut-a-qut-o's green head.
And with a sob, Winnie hid her face in Winthrop's arms. But
then in another minute she raised it again, and clearing away
the mute witnesses of joy and sorrow, though it was no use for
they gathered again, she looked steadily. The river lay at her
feet and stretched away off up to Shahweetah, its soft gray
surface unbroken by a ripple or an eddy, smooth and bright and
still. Diver's Rock stood out in its old rough outline, till
it cut off the west end of Shahweetah and seemed to shut up
the channel of the river. A little tiny thread of a north wind
came down to them from Home, over the river, with sweet
promise. And as they looked, the morning light was catching
Wut-a-qut-o's grave head, and then hill-top after hill-top,
and ridge after ridge of the high mountain land, till all of
them were alight with the day's warm hues, while all beneath
slept yet in the greys of the dawn. The brother and sister
stood side by side, perfectly silent; only Winnie's tears ran,
sometimes with such a gush that it brought her head down, and
sobs that could be heard came to Winthrop's ears. They stood
till they were hailed by the old miller.

"Ha! Winthrop -- glad to see ye! how do you do? Haven't seen
your face this great while. Winnie? is it? -- Glad to see ye!
She's growed a bit. Come right along into the house -- we'll
have something for breakfast by and by, I expect. I didn't
know you was here till five minutes ago -- I was late out
myself -- ain't as spry as I used to be; -- Come!" --

"Oh Governor, let's go straight home!" said Winnie.

"There's time enough yet, Mr. Cowslip, for your purposes. What
o'clock do you suppose it is?"

"Well, I s'pose it's somewhere goin' on to six, ain't it?"

"It has left five. We can breakfast with Karen yet, Winnie."

"Oh do, Governor!"

"If you'll give us a boat instead of a breakfast, Mr. Cowslip,
we will thank you just as much, and maybe take your
hospitality another time."

"But won't you stop and take just a mouthful first? you'd
better."

"No thank you. We shall have to take it up there; and two
breakfasts a day don't agree with me."

With some sorrow on Mr. Cowslip's part, this was submitted to.
The boat was got out; Hildebrand dropped into it and took the
oars, "guessing he wouldn't mind going himself;" and Winthrop
and Winnie sat close together in the stern. Not to steer; for
Hildebrand was much too accustomed an oarsman to need any such
help in coasting the river for miles up and down.


CHAPTER IV.


Away, away, from men and towns,
To the wild wood and the downs --
To the silent wilderness
Where the soul need not repress
Its music, lest it should not find
An echo in another's mind.
SHELLEY.


Winnie drew a breath of gratification, as the oars began to
dimple the still water and the little boat rounded out from
behind the wharf and headed up the river; the very same way by
which Winthrop had taken Mr. Haye's two young ladies once long
before. The tide was just at the turn, and Hildebrand made a
straight run for the rocks.

"How pleasant it is to hear the oars again!" Winnie said.
Winthrop said nothing.

Swiftly they pulled up, dappling the smooth grey water with
falling drops from the oar-blades, and leaving behind them two
lines of spreading wavelets that tracked the boat's way.
Cowslip's Mill fell into the distance, and all that shore, as
they pulled out into the middle of the river; then they drew
near the old granite ridge of Diver's Rock on the other side.
The sun had got so low down as that now, and the light of
years ago was on the same grey bluffs and patches of wood. It
was just like years ago; the trees stood where they did, ay,
and the sunlight; the same shadows fell; and the river washed
the broken foot of the point with, it might be, the very same
little waves and eddies. And there, a mile further on, Wut-a-
qut-o's high green side rose up from the water. Winnie had
taken off her bonnet and sat with her head resting upon
Winthrop's side or arm, her common position whenever she could
get it. And she sat and looked, first at one thing and then at
another, with quiet tears running and some times streaming
down her face. Then the boat struck off from Diver's Rock and
pushed straight over for the rocks of Shahweetah. As it neared
them, the dear old trees stood forth more plainly to view,
each one for itself; and the wonted footholds, on turf and
stone, could be told and could be seen, apart one from the
other. Poor Winnie could not look at them then, but she put
her head down and sobbed her greeting to them all.

"Winnie," -- said Winthrop softly, and she felt his arm closer
drawn around her, -- "you must not do that."

It mattered little what Winthrop asked Winnie to do; she never
failed to obey him. She stopped crying now, and in another
moment was smiling to him her delight, through the drops that
held their place yet in her eyes and on her cheeks.

The little boat was shoved in to the usual place among the
rocks and the passengers got out.

"What's the fare, Hild'? -- sloop and all?"

The skipper stood on the rocks and looked into the water.

"Will you let me come to you to clear me out, the first time I
get into trouble?"

"Yes."

"Then we're square!" he said, preparing to jump back into his
boat.

"_Then_ hasn't come," said Winthrop; "let's keep things square
as we go along."

"All right," said the skipper. "Couldn't take nothin' from you
the first time, Governor."

And Hildebrand after giving Winthrop's hand a shake, into
which there went a sort of grateful respect which he would
never have yielded to one who had laid any manner of claim to
it, dropped into his seat again and pushed off. Winthrop and
Winnie turned their steps slowly towards the house.

Very slowly; for each step now was what they had come for. How
untravelled the road was!

"How it looks as if we didn't live here, Governor," Winnie
said with half a sigh.

"Old Karen and Anderese don't come this way very often,"
replied her brother.

"Governor, I am very sorry it has got to be sold!"

They walked a few more steps up the rocky path in silence.

"O Governor, look at that great limb of that cedar tree -- all
dragging! What a pity."

"Broken by the wind," said Winthrop.

"How beautifully the ivy hangs from that cedar -- just as it
did. Dear Governor, won't you get a saw while you're here, and
take off the branch and make it look nice again? -- as nice as
it can; -- and there's the top of that little white pine!" --

"Winter-killed," said Winthrop.

"Won't you put it in order, as you used to do, this one time
more?"

"If I can get a saw, I will, Winnie, -- or a hatchet."

"I'm sorry we can't do it but this one time more," said
Winnie, with a second and a better defined sigh, as they
reached the house level. "O how funny it looks, Governor! how
the grass has run up! and how brown it is! But the cedars
don't change, do they?"

"It is August, Winnie," was all Winthrop's remark.

The front of the house was shut up; they went round. Old
Anderese was cutting wood at the back of the house; but
without stopping to enlighten him, Winthrop passed on and led
Winnie into the kitchen. There the kitchen fire was burning as
of yore, and on the hearth before it stood Karen, stooping
down to oversee her cooking breakfast. At Winthrop's voice she
started and turned. She looked at them; and then came a long
and prolonged "Oh! --" of most mingled and varied tone and
expression; hands and eyes keeping it company.

"Karen, we have come to see you."

In perfect silence she shook the hand of each, and then sat
down and threw her apron over her face. Winnie stood still and
sobbed; Winthrop walked off.

"Oh, dear," said the old woman presently rising and coming up
to Winnie, -- "what's made ye come to see me again? What did
you come for, dear?"

The tone was wondering and caressing, and rejoicing, all in a
breath. Winnie dried her eyes and answered as well as she
could.

"Why we wanted to see the old place again, Karen, and to see
you; and Governor thought it would do me good to be in the
country a little while; and he couldn't come before, and so we
have come up now to stay a few days. And we've brought things
to eat, so you needn't be troubled about that."

"Ye needn't," said old Karen. "Anderese and me'd find
something for you to eat, in all the wide country -- do ye
think we wouldn't? And how are you, dear," said she scanning
Winnie's pale face; -- "are ye ever yet any stronger?"

Winnie shook her head smiling and answered, "Not much."

"I see ye ain't. Well -- ye're the Lord's child. He'll do what
he will with his own. Where did ye come from, dear?"

"Up from Mr. Cowslip's mill," said Winnie. "We came in his
sloop last night."

"The sloop!" said Karen. "Why then ye haven't had anything to
eat! -- and what was I thinking of! Sit down, dear -- take your
own chair, till I get the other room fit for ye; and you shall
have breakfast jus' so soon I can make it. Where's the
Governor gone to?"

In the evening walked alone down to the lake after sunset and
saw the solemn coloring of night draw on, the last gleam of
sunshine fading away on the hilltops, the deep serene of the
waters, and the long shadows of the mountains thrown
across them till they nearly touched the hithermost shore.
At distance heard the murmur of many waterfalls not audible
in the day-time.[48] Wished for the moon, but she was dark
to me and silent, hid in her vacant inter-lunar cave

."[49]

"It is only within a few years," wrote Joseph Warton in 1782, "that
the picturesque scenes of our own country, our lakes, mountains,
cascades, caverns, and castles, have been visited and described

.

"[50] It was in this very year that William Gilpin published his
"Observations on the River Wye," from notes taken upon a tour in 1770.

And you don't know who's a goin' to have
it, Governor?"

"I don't know."

"'Tain't likely they'll let the old woman stay in her corner,
whoever they'll be," said Karen. "Well -- 'tain't fur now to
the end, -- and then I'll get a better place where they won't
turn me out. I wish I was there, Governor."

"'There' will be better at the end of your way, Karen, than
at any other time."

"Ay -- O I know it, dear; but I get so impatient, days, -- I
want to be gone. It's better waiting."

"Perhaps you'll have something yet to do for us, Karen," said
Winnie.

"Ye're too fur off," said the old woman. "Karen's done all she
can for ye when she's took care of ye this time. But I'll find
what I have to do -- and I'll do it -- and then I'll go!" -- she
said, with a curious modulation of the tones of her voice that
came near some of the Methodist airs in which she delighted.
To say nothing of the Homeric poems, the ancient Finns,
Scandinavians, and Germans were as barbarous as the Gael; yet they
produced the Kalewala, the Edda, and the Nibelungen Lied.

The Kalewala, a poem of 22, 793 lines--as long as the Iliad--was
transmitted orally from a remote antiquity and first printed in
1849.

As to Gaelic manuscripts, there are over sixty in the Advocates'
Library at Edinburgh, varying in age from three hundred to five
hundred years.[7] There is, _e.g._, the "Glenmasan Manuscript" of
the year 1238, containing the story of "Darthula,"[8] which is the
groundwork of the same story in MacPherson's "Ossian."

There is the important "Dean of Lismore's Book," a manuscript
collection made by Dean MacGregory of Lismore, Argyleshire,
between 1512 and 1529, containing 11,000 lines of Gaelic
poetry, some of which is attributed to Ossian or Oisin. One
of the poems is identical in substance with the first book of
MacPherson's "Temora;" although Mr.

Campbell says, "There is not one line in the Dean's book that
I can identify with any line in MacPherson's Gaelic."[9]
Other objections to the authenticity of MacPherson's
translations rested upon internal evidence, upon their characteristics
of thought and style.

It was alleged that the "peculiar tone of sentimental grandeur
and melancholy" which distinguishes them, is false to the spirit
of all known early poetry, and is a modern note.

In particular, it was argued, MacPherson's heroes are too
sensitive to the wild and sublime in nature.
Professor William R. Sullivan, a high authority on Celtic
literature, says that in the genuine and undoubted remains of
old Irish poetry belonging to the Leinster or Finnian Cycle
and ascribed to Oisin, there is much detail in
descriptions of arms, accouterments, and articles of indoor use
and ornament, but very little in descriptions of outward nature.[10]
On the other hand, the late Principal Shairp regards this "sadness
of tone in describing nature" as a strong proof of authenticity.

"Two facts," he says, "are enough to convince me of the
genuineness of the ancient Gaelic poetry.

The truthfulness with which it reflects the melancholy aspects of
Highland scenery, the equal truthfulness with which it expresses
the prevailing sentiment of the Gael, and his sad sense of his
people's destiny.

I need no other proofs that the Ossianic poetry is a native
formation, and comes from the primeval heart of the Gaelic race

."[11] And he quotes, in support of his view, a well-known
passage from Matthew Arnold's "Study of Celtic Literature": "The
Celts are the prime authors of this vein of piercing regret and
passion, of this Titanism in poetry.

A famous book, MacPherson's 'Ossian,' carried, in the last
century, this vein like a flood of lava through Europe. I
am not going to criticise MacPherson's 'Ossian' here.
Make the part of what is forged, modern, tawdry, spurious in
the book as large as you please; strip Scotland, if you like,
of every feather of borrowed plumes which, on the strength of
MacPherson's 'Ossian,' she may have stolen from that _vetus
et major Scotia_--Ireland; I make no objection.
Mosses and
lichens, brown and black with the summer's heat, clothed the
rocks and dressed out their barrenness; green tufts of fern
nodded in many a nook, and kept their greenness still; and
huckleberry bushes were on every hand, in every spare place,
and standing full of the unreaped black and blue harvest. And
in the very path, under their feet, sprang many an unassuming
little green plant, that in the Spring had lifted its head in
glorious beauty with some delicate crown of a flower. A
stranger would have made nothing of them; but Winnie and
Winthrop knew them all, crowned or uncrowned.

"It's pretty hard getting up here, Governor -- I guess I
haven't grown strong since I was here last; and these old
yellow pines are so rotten I am afraid to take hold of
anything -- but your hand. It's good you are sure-footed. O
look at the Solomon's Seal -- don't you wish it was in flower!"

"If it was, we shouldn't have any huckleberries," said her
brother.

"There's a fine parcel of them, isn't there, Winthrop? O let's
stop and pick these -- there are nice ones -- and let me rest."

Winnie sat down to breathe, with her arm round the trunk of a
pine tree, drinking in everything with her eyes, while that
cluster of bushes was stripped of its most promising berries;
and then a few steps more brought Winthrop and Winnie to the
top of the height.

Greater barrenness of soil, or greater exposure to storms, or
both causes together, had left this hill-top comparatively
bare; and a few cedars that had lived and died there had been
cut away by the axe, for firewood; making a still further
clearance. But the shallow soil everywhere supported a
covering of short grass or more luxuriant mosses; and enough
cedars yet made good their hold of life and standing, to
overshadow pretty well the whole ground; leaving the eye
unchecked in its upward or downward rovings. The height was
about two hundred feet above the level of the river, and
seemed to stand in mid-channel, Shahweetah thrusting itself
out between the north and southerly courses of the stream, and
obliging it to bend for a little space at a sharp angle to the
West. The north and south reaches, and the bend were all
commanded by the height, together with the whole western shore
and southern and south-eastern hills. To the northwest was
Wut-a-qut-o, seen almost from the water's edge to the top; but
the out-jutting woods of Shahweetah impinged upon the
mountain's base, and cut the line of the river there to the
eye. But north there was no obstruction. The low foreground of
woods over which the hill-top looked, served but as a base to
the picture, a setting on the hither side. Beyond it the
Shatemuc rolled down from the north in uninterrupted view, the
guardian hills, Wut-a-qut-o and its companions, standing on
either side; and beyond them, far beyond, was the low western
shore of the river sweeping round to the right, where the
river made another angle, shewing its soft tints; and some
faint and clear blue mountains still further off, the extreme
distance of all. But what varied colouring, -- what fresh
lights and shades, -- what sweet contrast of fair blue sky and
fair blue river, -- the one, earth's motion; the other,
heaven's rest; what deep and bright greens in the foreground,
and what shadowy, faint, cloud-like, tints of those far off
mountains. The soft north wind that had greeted the travellers
in the early morning, was blowing yet, soft and warm; it
flickered the leaves of the oaks and chestnuts with a lazy
summer stir; white sails spotted the broad bosom of the
Shatemuc and came down with summer gentleness from the upper
reaches of the river. --In answer to an inquiry relative to Sir
Alexander Cumming, of Culter, I may refer to the _Scottish
Journal_ (Menzies, Edin. 1848) _of Topography, Antiquities,
Traditions, &c._, vol. ii. p. 254., where an extract from a MS.
autobiography of the baronet is given.

The work in which this occurs is little known; but, as a
repertory of much curious and interesting information,
deserved a more extensive circulation than it obtained. It
stopped with the second volume, and is now somewhat scarce, as
the unsold copies were disposed of for waste paper.

_Pater-noster Tackling_ (Vol. iii., p. 89.).

--_Pater-noster fishing-tackle_, so called in the shops, is
used to catch fish (perch, for instance) which take the bait at
various distances between the surface and the bottom of the water.

Accordingly, hooks are attached to a line at given intervals
throughout its length, with leaden shots, likewise regularly
distributed, in order to sink it, and keep it extended perpendicularly
in the water.

This regularity of arrangement, and the resemblance of the shots
to _beads_, seems to have caused the contrivance to have been,
somewhat fancifully, likened to a _chaplet_ or _rosary_.

In a rosary there is a bead longer than the rest, for distinction's
sake called the _Pater-noster_; from whence that name applies to
a rosary; and, therefore, to anything likened to it; and, therefore,
to the article of _fishing-tackle_ in question.

The word _pater-noster_, i.e.

_pater-noster-wise_, is an heraldic term (_vide_ Ash's _Dictionary_),
applied to _beads_ disposed in the form of a cross.

ROBERT SNOW.

"But Governor! -- you don't mean to say that your life is like
that?"

"Like what, Winnie?" said he with a pleasant look at her.

"Why, anything so dismal -- like the Solomon's Seals with the
flower gone?"

"Are they dismal?"

"Why, no, -- but you would be, if you were like anything of
that kind."

"Do I look like anything of that kind?"

"No," said Winnie, "indeed you don't, -- you never _look_ the
least bit dismal in the world."

"I am not the least bit in the world, Winnie."

"I wish you had everything in the world that would give you
pleasure!" she said, looking at him wistfully, with a vague
unselfish consciousness that it might not all be for hers.

"That would be too much for any man's share, Winnie. You would
make a Prince in a fairy tale of me."

"Well, what if I would?" said Winnie, half smiling, half
sighing, and paying him all sort of leal homage in her heart's
core.

"That is not commonly the lot of those who are to reign
hereafter in a better kingdom."

Winnie rose up a little so that she could put both hands on
his shoulders, and kissed him on forehead and cheeks; most
loving kisses.

"But dear Governor, it isn't wrong for me to wish you to have
both things, is it?"

"I hope not, dear Winnie. I don't think your wishes will do
any mischief. But I am content to be here to-day."

"Are you? do you enjoy it?" she asked eagerly.

"Very much."

"I am so glad! I was afraid somehow you didn't -- as much as I
did. But I am sorry you can't keep it, Governor. Isn't it all
beautiful? I didn't know it was so delightful as it is."

And Winnie sighed her wish over again.

"You can't have your possessions in both worlds, Winnie."

"No, -- and I don't want to."

"You only wish that I could," he said smiling.

"Well, Winthrop, -- I can't help that."

"I am in better hands than yours, Winnie. --It may perhaps
interest LORD BRAYBROOKE and J.

H. M. to know, that I have in my possession the copy of Dodsley's
_Minor Poems_, which belonged to John Gilbert Cooper, and which
was bought at the sale of his grandson, the late Colonel John
Gilbert-Cooper-Gardiner.

The song of "Winifreda" is at page 282. of the 4th volume;
and a manuscript note, in the handwriting of the son of the author
of _Letters concerning Taste_, states it to have been written "by
John Gilbert Cooper."

The _praise_ bestowed by Cooper on the poem, and which J. H.

M. conceives to militate against his claim to the composition, is
obviously intended to apply to the _original_, and not to Cooper's
elegant translation.

A.

Newark.

_Queries on Costume_ (Vol. iii., p. 88.)

."I thought the whole land was in shadow to you, Winnie,
because I cannot buy it."

"Why no it isn't," said Winnie. "It never looked so bright to
me. It never seemed near so beautiful when it was ours."

"The other land never seemed so bright and never will seem so
beautiful, as when it is ours. 'Thine eyes shall see the King
in his beauty; they shall behold the land that is very far
off.'"

Winnie smiled a most rested, pleased, gratified smile at him;
and turned to another subject.

"I wonder what's become of your old little boat, Governor --
the Merry-go-round?"

They may be explained as follows:--_Hustrin_, hustling,
or riotously inclined, being so consonanted to make it alliterate
with _custrin_, spelt by Jamieson, _custroun_, and signifying a
pitiful fellow.

Chaucer has the word _truston_ in this sense.

"If we can get home, Winnie, I'll see how the matter stands."

"I don't want to go home," said Winnie.

"But I want to have you. And Karen will want the
huckleberries."

"Well -- I'll go," said Winnie. "But we'll come again, Governor
-- won't we?"

"As often as you please. Now shall I carry you?"

"O no!"

