The change from rule-of-thumb management to scientific management
involves, however, not only a study of what is the proper speed for
doing the work and a remodeling of the tools and the implements in the
shop, but also a complete change in the mental attitude of all the men
in the shop toward their work and toward their employers. The physical
improvements in the machines necessary to insure large gains, and the
motion, study followed by minute study with a stop-watch of the time in
which each workman should do his work, can be made comparatively
quickly. But the change in the mental attitude and in the habits of the
three hundred or more workmen can be brought about only slowly and
through a long series of object-lessons, which finally demonstrates to
each man the great advantage which he will gain by heartily cooperating
in his every-day work with the men in the management. Within three
years, however, in this shop, the output had been more than doubled per
man and per machine. The men had been carefully selected and in almost
all cases promoted from a lower to a higher order of work, and so
instructed by their teachers (the functional foremen) that they were
able to earn higher wages than ever before. The average increase in the
daily earnings of each man was about 35 per cent., while, at the same
time, the sum total of the wages paid for doing a given amount of work
was lower than before. This increase in the speed of doing the work, of
course, involved a substitution of the quickest hand methods for the old
independent rule-of-thumb methods, and an elaborate analysis of the hand
work done by each man. (By hand work is meant such work as depends upon
the manual dexterity and speed of a workman, and which is independent of
the work done by the machine.) The time saved by scientific hand work
was in many cases greater even than that saved in machine-work.

It seems important to fully explain the reason why, with the aid of a
slide-rule, and after having studied the art of cutting metals, it was
possible for the scientifically equipped man, who had never before seen
these particular jobs, and who had never worked on this machine, to do
work from two and one-half to nine times as fast as it had been done
before by a good mechanic who had spent his whole time for some ten to
twelve years in doing this very work upon this particular machine. In a
word, this was possible because the art of cutting metals involves a
true science of no small magnitude, a science, in fact, so intricate
that it is impossible for any machinist who is suited to running a lathe
year in and year out either to understand it or to work according to its
laws without the help of men who have made this their specialty. Men who
are un-familiar with machine-shop work are prone to look upon the
manufacture of each piece as a special problem, independent of any other
kind of machine-work. They are apt to think, for instance, that the
problems connected with making the parts of an engine require the
especial study, one may say almost the life study, of a set of
engine-making mechanics, and that these problems are entirely different
from those which would be met with in machining lathe or planer parts.
In fact, however, a study of those elements which are peculiar either to
engine parts or to lathe parts is trifling, compared with the great
study of the art, or science, of cutting metals, upon a knowledge of
which rests the ability to do really fast machine-work of all kinds.

The real problem is how to remove chips fast from a casting or a
forging, and how to make the piece smooth and true in the shortest time,
and it matters but little whether the piece being worked upon is part,
say, of a marine engine, a printing-press, or an automobile. For this
reason, the man with the slide rule, familiar with the science of
cutting metals, who had never before seen this particular work, was able
completely to distance the skilled mechanic who had made the parts of
this machine his specialty for years.

It is true that whenever intelligent and educated men find that the
responsibility for making progress in any of the mechanic arts rests
with them, instead of upon the workmen who are actually laboring at the
trade, that they almost invariably start on the road which leads to the
development of a science where, in the past, has existed mere
traditional or rule-of-thumb knowledge. When men, whose education has
given them the habit of generalizing and everywhere looking for laws,
find themselves confronted with a multitude of problems, such as exist
in every trade and which have a general similarity one to another, it is
inevitable that they should try to gather these problems into certain
logical groups, and then search for some general laws or rules to guide
them in their solution. As has been pointed out, however, the underlying
principles of the management of "initiative and incentive," that is, the
underlying philosophy of this management, necessarily leaves the
solution of all of these problems in the hands of each individual
workman, while the philosophy of scientific management places their
solution in the hands of the management. The workman's whole time is
each day taken in actually doing the work with his hands, so that, even
if he had the necessary education and habits of generalizing in his
thought, he lacks the time and the opportunity for developing these
laws, because the study of even a simple law involving say time study
requires the cooperation of two men, the one doing the work while the
other times him with a stop-watch. And even if the workman were to
develop laws where before existed only rule-of-thumb knowledge, his
personal interest would lead him almost inevitably to keep his
discoveries secret, so that he could, by means of this special
knowledge, personally do more work than other men and so obtain higher
wages.

Under scientific management, on the other hand, it becomes the duty and
also the pleasure of those who are engaged in the management not only to
develop laws to replace rule of thumb, but also to teach impartially all
of the workmen who are under them the quickest ways of working. The
useful results obtained from these laws are always so great that any
company can well afford to pay for the time and the experiments needed
to develop them. Thus under scientific management exact scientific
knowledge and methods are everywhere, sooner or later, sure to replace
rule of thumb, whereas under the old type of management working in
accordance with scientific laws is an impossibility. The development of
the art or science of cutting metals is an apt illustration of this
fact. In the fall of 1880, about the time that the writer started to
make the experiments above referred to, to determine what constitutes a
proper day's work for a laborer, he also obtained the permission of Mr.
William Sellers, the President of the Midvale Steel Company, to make a
series of experiments to determine what angles and shapes of tools were
the best for cutting steel, and also to try to determine the proper
cutting speed for steel. At the time that these experiments were started
it was his belief that they would not last longer than six months, and,
in fact, if it had been known that a longer period than this would be
required, the permission to spend a considerable sum of money in making
them would not have been forthcoming.

A 66-inch diameter vertical boring-mill was the first machine used in
making these experiments, and large locomotive tires, made out of hard
steel of uniform quality, were day after day cut up into chips in
gradually learning how to make, shape, and use the cutting tools so that
they would do faster work. At the end of six months sufficient
practical information had been obtained to far more than repay the cost
of materials and wages which had been expended in experimenting. And yet
the comparatively small number of experiments which had been made served
principally to make it clear that the actual knowledge attained was but
a small fraction of that which still remained to be developed, and which
was badly needed by us, in our daily attempt to direct and help the
machinists in their tasks.

Experiments in this field were carried on, with occasional interruption,
through a period of about 26 years, in the course of which ten different
experimental machines were especially fitted up to do this work. Between
30,000 and 50,000 experiments were carefully recorded, and many other
experiments were made, of which no record was kept. In studying these
laws more than 800,000 pounds of steel and iron was cut up into chips
with the experimental tools, and it is estimated that from $150,000 to
$200,000 was spent in the investigation.

Work of this character is intensely interesting to any one who has any
love for scientific research. For the purpose of this paper, however, it
should be fully appreciated that the motive power which kept these
experiments going through many years, and which supplied the money and
the opportunity for their accomplishment, was not an abstract search
after scientific knowledge, but was the very practical fact that we
lacked the exact information which was needed every day, in order to
help our machinists to do their work in the best way and in the quickest
time.

All of these experiments were made to enable us to answer correctly the
two questions which face every machinist each time that he does a piece
of work in a metal-cutting machine, such as a lathe, planer, drill
press, or miring machine. These two questions are:

In order to do the work in the quickest time, At what cutting speed
shall I run my machine? and What feed shall I use?

They sound so simple that they would appear to call for merely the
trained judgment of any good mechanic. In fact, however, after working
26 years, it has been found that the answer in every case involves the
solution of an intricate mathematical problem, in which the effect of
twelve independent variables must be determined.

Each of the twelve following variables has an important effect upon the
answer. The figures which are given with each of the variables represent
the effect of this element upon the cutting speed.

For example, after the first variable (A) we quote,

"The proportion is as I in the case of semi-hardened steel or chilled
iron to 100 in the case of a very soft, low-carbon steel." The meaning
of this quotation is that soft steel can be cut 100 times as fast as the
hard steel or chilled iron. The ratios which are given, then, after each
of these elements, indicate the wide range of judgment which practically
every machinist has been called upon to exercise in the past in
determining the best speed at which to run the machine and the best feed
to use.

(A) The quality of the metal which is to be cut; i.e., its hardness
or other qualities which affect the cutting speed. The proportion is as
1 in the case of semi-hardened steel or chilled iron to 100 in the case
of very soft, low-carbon steel.

(B) The chemical composition of the steel from which the tool is
made, and the heat treatment of the tool. The proportion is as 1 in
tools made from tempered carbon steel to 7 in the best high-speed tools.

(C) The thickness of the shaving, or, the thickness of the spiral
strip or band of metal which is to be removed by the tool. The
proportion is as 1 with thickness of shaving 3/16 of an inch to 3 1/2
with thickness of shaving 1/64 of an inch.

(D) The shape or contour of the cutting edge of  the tool. The
proportion is as 1 in a thread tool to 6 in a broad-nosed cutting tool.

(E) Whether a copious stream of water or other cooling medium is
used on the tool. The proportion is as 1 for tool running dry to 1.41
for tool cooled by a copious stream of water.

(F) The depth of the cut. The proportion is as 1 with 1/2 inch depth
of cut to 1.36 with 1/8 inch depth of cut.

(G) The duration of the cut, i.e., the time which a tool must last under
pressure of the shaving without being reground. The proportion is as 1
when tool is to be ground every 1 1/2 hours to 1.20 when tool is to be
ground every 20 minutes.

(H) The lip and clearance angles of the tool. The proportion is as 1
with lip angle of 68 degrees to 1.023 with lip angle of 61 degrees.

(J) The elasticity of the work and of the tool on account of
producing chatter. The proportion is as 1 with tool chattering to 1.15
with tool running smoothly.

(K) The diameter of the casting or forging which is being cut.

(L) The pressure of the chip or shaving upon the cutting surface of the
tool.

(M) The pulling power and the speed and feed changes of the machine.

It may seem preposterous to many people that it should have required a
period of 26 years to investigate the effect of these twelve variables
upon the cutting speed of metals. To those, however, who have had
personal experience as experimenters, it will be appreciated that the
great difficulty of the problem lies in the fact that it contains so
many variable elements. And in fact the great length of time consumed in
making each single experiment was caused by the difficulty of holding
eleven variables constant and uniform throughout the experiment, while
the effect of the twelfth variable was being investigated. Holding the
eleven variables constant was far more difficult than the investigation
of the twelfth element.

As, one after another, the effect upon the cutting speed of each of
these variables was investigated, in order that practical use could be
made of this knowledge, it was necessary to find a mathematical formula
which expressed in concise form the laws which had been obtained. As
examples of the twelve formulae which were developed, the three
following are given:

        P = 45,000  D 14/15 F 3/4

        V = 90/T 1/8

        V = 11.9/ (F 0.665(48/3 D) 0.2373 + (2.4 / (18 + 24D))

After these laws had been investigated and the various formulae which
mathematically expressed them had been determined, there still remained
the difficult task of how to solve one of these complicated mathematical
problems quickly enough to make this knowledge available for every-day
use. If a good mathematician who had these formula before Mm were to
attempt to get the proper answer (i.e., to get the correct cutting speed
and feed by working in the ordinary way) it would take him from two to
six hours, say, to solve a single problem; far longer to solve the
mathematical problem than would be taken in most cases by the workmen in
doing the whole job in his machine. Thus a task of considerable
magnitude which faced us was that of finding a quick solution of this
problem, and as we made progress in its solution, the whole problem was
from time to time presented by the writer to one after another of the
noted mathematicians in this country. They were offered any reasonable
fee for a rapid, practical method to be used in its solution. Some of
these men merely glanced at it; others, for the sake of being courteous,
kept it before them for some two or three weeks. They all gave us
practically the same answer: that in many cases it was possible to,
solve mathematical problems which contained four variables, and in some
cases problems with five or six variables, but that it was manifestly
impossible to solve a problem containing twelve variables in any other
way than by the slow process of "trial and error."

A quick solution was, however, so much of a necessity in our every-day
work of running machine-shops, that in spite of the small encouragement
received from the mathematicians, we continued at irregular periods,
through a term of fifteen years, to give a large amount of time
searching for a simple solution. Four or five men at various periods
gave practically their whole time to this work, and finally, while we
were at the Bethlehem Steel Company, the slide-rule was developed which
is illustrated on Folder No. 11 of the paper "On the Art of Cutting
Metals," and is described in detail in the paper presented by Mr. Carl
G. Barth to the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, entitled
"Slide-rules for the Machine-shop, as a part of the Taylor System of
Management" (Vol. XXV of The Transactions of the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers). By means of this slide-rule, one of these
intricate problems can be solved in less than a half minute by any good
mechanics whether he understands anything about mathematics or not, thus
making available for every-day, practical use the years of experimenting
on the art of cutting metals. This is a good illustration of the fact
that some way can always be found of making practical, everyday use of
complicated scientific data, which appears to be beyond the experience
and the range of the technical training of ordinary practical men. These
slide-rules have been for years in constant daily use by machinists
having no knowledge of mathematics.

A glance at the intricate mathematical formula (see page 109) which
represent the laws of cutting metals should clearly show the reason why
it is impossible for any machinist, without the aid of these laws, and
who depends upon his personal experience, correctly to guess at the
answer to the two questions,

    What speed shall I use?

    What feed shall I use?

even though he may repeat the same piece of work many times.

To return to the case of the machinist who had been working for ten to
twelve years in machining the same pieces over and over again, there was
but a remote chance in any of the various kinds of work which this man
did that he should hit upon the one best method of doing each piece of
work out of the hundreds of possible methods which lay before him. In
considering this typical case, it must also be remembered that the
metal-cutting machines throughout our machine-shops have practically all
been speeded by their makers by guesswork, and without the knowledge
obtained through a study of the art of cutting metals. In the
machine-shops systematized by us we have found that there is not one
machine in a hundred which is speeded by its makers at anywhere near the
correct cutting speed. So that, in order to compete with the science of
cutting metals, the machinist, before he could use proper speeds, would
first have to put new pulleys on the countershaft of his machine, and
also make in most cases changes in the shapes and treatment of his
tools, etc. Many of these changes are matters entirely beyond his
control, even if he knows what ought to be done.

If the reason is clear to the reader why the rule-of-thumb knowledge
obtained by the machinist who is engaged on repeat work cannot possibly
compete with the true science of cutting metals, it should be even more
apparent why the high-class mechanic, who is called upon to do a great
variety of work from day to day, is even less able to compete with this
science. The high-class mechanic who does a different kind of work each
day, in order to do each job in the quickest time, would need, in
addition to a thorough knowledge of the art of cutting metals, a vast
knowledge and experience in the quickest way of doing each kind of hand
work. And the reader, by calling to mind the gain which was made by Mr.
Gilbreth through his motion and time study in laying bricks, will
appreciate the great possibilities for quicker methods of doing all
kinds of hand work which lie before every tradesman after he has the
help which comes from a scientific motion and time study of his work.

For nearly thirty years past, time-study men connected with the
management of machine-shops have been devoting their whole time to a
scientific motion study, followed by accurate time study, with a
stop-watch, of all of the elements connected with the machinist's work.
When, therefore, the teachers, who form one section of the management,
and who are cooperating with the working men, are in possession both of
the science of cutting metals and of the equally elaborate motion-study
and time-study science connected with this work, it is not difficult to
appreciate why even the highest class mechanic is unable to do his best
work without constant daily assistance from his teachers. And if this
fact has been made clear to the reader, one of the important objects in
writing this paper will have been realized.

It is hoped that the illustrations which have been given make it
apparent why scientific management must inevitably in all cases produce
overwhelmingly greater results, both for the company and its employees,
than can be obtained with the management of "initiative and incentive."
And it should also be clear that these results have been attained, not
through a marked superiority in the mechanism of one type of management
over the mechanism of another, but rather through the substitution of
one set of underlying principles for a totally different set of
principles, by the substitution of one philosophy for another philosophy
in industrial management.

To repeat then throughout all of these illustrations, it will be seen
that the useful results have hinged mainly upon (1) the substitution of
a science for the individual judgment of the workman; (2) the scientific
selection and development of the workman, after each man has been
studied, taught, and trained, and one may say experimented with, instead
of allowing the workmen to select themselves and develop in a haphazard
way; and (3) the intimate cooperation of the management with the
workmen, so that they together do the work in accordance with the
scientific laws which have been developed, instead of leaving the
solution of each problem in the hands of the individual workman. In
applying these new principles, in place of the old individual effort of
each workman, both sides share almost equally in the daily performance
of each task, the management doing that part of the work for which they
are best fitted, and the workmen the balance.

It is for the illustration of this philosophy that this paper has been
written, but some of the elements involved in its general principles
should be further discussed.

The development of a science sounds like a formidable undertaking, and
in fact anything like a thorough study of a science such as that of
cutting metals necessarily involves many years of work. The science of
cutting metals, however, represents in its complication, and in the time
required to develop it, almost an extreme case in the mechanic arts. Yet
even in this very intricate science, within a few months after starting,
enough knowledge had been obtained to much more than pay for the work of
experimenting. This holds true in the case of practically all scientific
development in the mechanic arts. The first laws developed for cutting
metals were crude, and contained only a partial knowledge of the truth,
yet this imperfect knowledge was vastly better than the utter lack of
exact information or the very imperfect rule of thumb which existed
before, and it enabled the workmen, with the help of the management, to
do far quicker and better work.

For example, a very short time was needed to discover one or two types
of tools which, though imperfect as compared with the shapes developed
years afterward, were superior to all other shapes and kinds in common
use. These tools were adopted as standard and made possible an immediate
increase in the speed of every machinist who used them. These types were
superseded in a comparatively short time by still other tools which
remained standard until they in their turn made way for later
improvements.

[Footnote: Time and again the experimenter in the mechanic arts will
find himself face to face with the problem as to whether he had better
make immediate practical use of the knowledge which he has attained, or
wait until some positive finality in his conclusions has been reached,
He recognizes clearly the fact that he has already made some definite
progress, but sees the possibility (even the probability) of still
further improvement. Each particular case must of course be
independently considered, but the general conclusion we have reached is
that in most instances it wise to put one's conclusions as soon as
possible to the rigid test of practical use. The one indispensable
condition for such a test, however, is that the experimenter shall have
full opportunity, coupled with sufficient authority, to insure a
thorough and impartial trial. And this, owing to the almost universal
prejudice in favor of the old, and to the suspicion of the new, is
difficult to get.]

The science which exists in most of the mechanic arts is, however, far
simpler than the science of cutting metals. In almost all cases, in
fact, the laws or rules which are developed are so simple that the
average man would hardly dignify them with the name of a science. In
most trades, the science is developed through a comparatively simple
analysis and time study of the movements required by the workmen to do
some small part of his work, and this study is usually made by a man
equipped merely with a stop-watch and a properly ruled notebook.
Hundreds of these "time-study men" are now engaged in developing
elementary scientific knowledge where before existed only rule of thumb.
Even the motion study of Mr. Gilbreth in bricklaying (described on pages
77 to 84) involves a much more elaborate investigation than that which
occurs in most cases. The general steps to be taken in developing a
simple law of this class are as follows:

First. Find, say, 10 or 15 different men (preferably in as many separate
establishments and different parts of the country) who are especially
skilful in doing the particular work to be analyzed.

Second. Study the exact series of elementary operations or motions which
each of these men uses in doing the work which is being investigated, as
well as the implements each man uses.

Third. Study with a stop-watch the time required to make each of these
elementary movements and then select the quickest way of doing each
element of the work.

Fourth. Eliminate all false movements, slow movements, and useless
movements.

Fifth. After doing away with all unnecessary movements, collect into one
series the quickest and best movements as well as the best implements.

This one new method, involving that series of motions which can be made
quickest and best, is then substituted in place of the ten or fifteen
inferior series which were formerly in use. This best method becomes
standard, and remains standard, to be taught first to the teachers (or
functional foremen) and by them to every workman in the establishment
until it is superseded by a quicker and better series of movements. In
this simple way one element after another of the science is developed.

