     And from the subject earth it seemed to scorn,
     It drew the sustenance whereby it grew
     Perfect in bosom for the married Morn,
     And of his life and light full as a maid kissed new.

     Its also darkness of the face withdrawn,
     And the long waiting for the little light,
     So long in life so little.  Like a fawn
     It fled with tempest breathing hard at heel of flight;

     And having known full East, did not disdain
     To sit in shadow and oblivious cold,
     Save what all loss doth of its loss retain,
     And who hath held hath somewhat that he still must hold.

     Right poet! who thy rightness to approve,
     Having all liberty, didst keep all measure,
     And with a firmament for ranging, move
     But at the heavens' uncomprehended pleasure.

     With amplitude unchecked, how sweetly thou
     Didst wear the ancient custom of the skies,
     And yoke of used prescription; and thence how
     Find gay variety no license could devise!

     As we the quested beauties better wit
     Of the one grove our own than forests great,
     Restraint, by the delighted search of it,
     Turns to right scope.  For lovely moving intricate

     Is put to fair devising in the curb
     Of ordered limit; and all-changeful Hermes
     Is Terminus as well.  Yet we perturb
     Our souls for latitude, whose strength in bound and term is.

     How far am I from heavenly liberty,
     That play at policy with change and fate,
     Who should my soul from foreign broils keep free,
     In the fast-guarded frontiers of its single state!

     Could I face firm the Is, and with To-be
     Trust Heaven; to Heaven commit the deed, and do;
     In power contained, calm in infirmity,
     And fit myself to change with virtue ever new;

     Thou hadst not shamed me, cousin of the sky,
     Thou wandering kinsman, that didst sweetly live
     Unnoted, and unnoted sweetly die,
     Weeping more gracious song than any I can weave;

     Which these gross-tissued words do sorely wrong.
     Thou hast taught me on powerlessness a power;
     To make song wait on life, not life on song;
     To hold sweet not too sweet, and bread for bread though sour;

     By law to wander, to be strictly free.
     With tears ascended from the heart's sad sea,
     Ah, such a silver song to Death could I
     Sing, Pain would list, forgetting Pain to be,
     And Death would tarry marvelling, and forget to die!


TO THE SINKING SUN.

     How graciously thou wear'st the yoke
       Of use that does not fail!
     The grasses, like an anchored smoke,
       Ride in the bending gale;
     This knoll is snowed with blosmy manna,
       And fire-dropt as a seraph's mail.

     Here every eve thou stretchest out
       Untarnishable wing,
     And marvellously bring'st about
       Newly an olden thing;
     Nor ever through like-ordered heaven
       Moves largely thy grave progressing.

     Here every eve thou goest down
       Behind the self-same hill,
     Nor ever twice alike go'st down
       Behind the self-same hill;
     Nor like-ways is one flame-sopped flower
       Possessed with glory past its will.

     Not twice alike!  I am not blind,
       My sight is live to see;
     And yet I do complain of thy
       Weary variety.
     O Sun!  I ask thee less or more,
       Change not at all, or utterly!

     O give me unprevisioned new,
       Or give to change reprieve!
     For new in me is olden too,
       That I for sameness grieve.
     O flowers! O grasses! be but once
       The grass and flower of yester-eve!

     Wonder and sadness are the lot
       Of change:  thou yield'st mine eyes
     Grief of vicissitude, but not
       Its penetrant surprise.
     Immutability mutable
       Burthens my spirit and the skies.

     O altered joy, all joyed of yore,
       Plodding in unconned ways!
     O grief grieved out, and yet once more
       A dull, new, staled amaze!
     I dream, and all was dreamed before,
       Or dream I so? the dreamer says.


GRIEF'S HARMONICS.

     At evening, when the lank and rigid trees,
     To the mere forms of their sweet day-selves drying,
     On heaven's blank leaf seem pressed and flatten-ed;
     Or rather, to my sombre thoughts replying,
     Of plumes funereal the thin effigies;
     That hour when all old dead things seem most dead,
     And their death instant most and most undying,
     That the flesh aches at them; there stirred in me
     The babe of an unborn calamity,
     Ere its due time to be deliver-ed.
     Dead sorrow and sorrow unborn so blent their pain,
     That which more present was were hardly said,
     But both more NOW than any Now can be.
     My soul like sackcloth did her body rend,
     And thus with Heaven contend:-
     'Let pass the chalice of this coming dread,
     Or that fore-drained O bid me not re-drain!'
     So have I asked, who know my asking vain,
     Woe against woe in antiphon set over,
     That grief's soul transmigrates, and lives again,
     And in new pang old pang's incarnated.


MEMORAT MEMORIA.

     Come you living or dead to me, out of the silt of the Past,
     With the sweet of the piteous first, and the shame of the shameful
     last?
     Come with your dear and dreadful face through the passes of Sleep,
     The terrible mask, and the face it masked--the face you did not
     keep?
     You are neither two nor one--I would you were one or two,
     For your awful self is embalmed in the fragrant self I knew:
     And Above may ken, and Beneath may ken, what I mean by these words
     of whirl,
     But by my sleep that sleepeth not,--O Shadow of a Girl!--
     Nought here but I and my dreams shall know the secret of this
     thing:-
     For ever the songs I sing are sad with the songs I never sing,
     Sad are sung songs, but how more sad the songs we dare not sing!

     Ah, the ill that we do in tenderness, and the hateful horror of
     love!
     It has sent more souls to the unslaked Pit than it ever will draw
     above.
     I damned you, girl, with my pity, who had better by far been thwart,
     And drave you hard on the track to hell, because I was gentle of
     heart.
     I shall have no comfort now in scent, no ease in dew, for this;
     I shall be afraid of daffodils, and rose-buds are amiss;
     You have made a thing of innocence as shameful as a sin,
     I shall never feel a girl's soft arms without horror of the skin.
     My child! what was it that I sowed, that I so ill should reap?
     You have done this to me.  And I, what I to you?--It lies with
     Sleep.


JULY FUGITIVE.

     Can you tell me where has hid her
        Pretty Maid July?
     I would swear one day ago
        She passed by,
     I would swear that I do know
        The blue bliss of her eye:
     'Tarry, maid, maid,' I bid her;
        But she hastened by.
     Do you know where she has hid her,
        Maid July?

     Yet in truth it needs must be
        The flight of her is old;
     Yet in truth it needs must be,
        For her nest, the earth, is cold.
     No more in the pool-ed Even
        Wade her rosy feet,
     Dawn-flakes no more plash from them
        To poppies 'mid the wheat.
     She has muddied the day's oozes
        With her petulant feet;
     Scared the clouds that floated,
        As sea-birds they were,
     Slow on the coerule
        Lulls of the air,
     Lulled on the luminous
        Levels of air:
     She has chidden in a pet
        All her stars from her;
     Now they wander loose and sigh
        Through the turbid blue,
     Now they wander, weep, and cry--
        Yea, and I too--
     'Where are you, sweet July,
        Where are you?'

