FIESCO. What do I see! The moon hath hid its face. The morn is rising
fiery from the sea. Wild fancies have beset my sleep, and kept my soul
convulsed by one idea. Let me inhale the pure, refreshing breeze. (He
opens a window; the city and ocean appear red with the tint of morning.
FIESCO walking up and down the room with energy.) I the greatest man in
Genoa! And should not lesser souls bow down before the greater? But is
not this to trample upon virtue? (Musing.) Virtue? The elevated mind
is exposed to other than ordinary temptations--shall it then be governed
by the ordinary rules of virtue? Is the armor which encases the pigmy's
feeble frame suited to the giant? (The sun rises over Genoa.) This
majestic city mine! (Spreading out his arms as if to embrace it.) To
flame above it like the god of day! To rule over it with a monarch mind!
To hold in subjection all the raging passions, all the insatiable desires
in this fathomless ocean! 'Tis certain, though the cunning of the thief
ennoble not the theft, yet doth the prize ennoble the thief. It is base
to filch a purse--daring to embezzle a million,--but it is immeasurably
great to steal a diadem. As guilt extends its sphere, the infamy
decreaseth. (A pause, then with energy.) To obey! or to command! A
fearful dizzying gulf--that absorbs whate'er is precious in the eyes of
men. The trophies of the conqueror--the immortal works of science and of
art--the voluptuous pleasures of the epicure--the whole wealth
encompassed by the seas. To obey! or to command! To be, or not to be!
The space between is as wide as from the lowest depths of hell to the
throne of the Almighty. (In an elevated tone.) From that awful height
to look down securely upon the impetuous whirlpool of mankind, where
blind fortune holds capricious sway! To quaff at the fountainhead
unlimited draughts from the rich cup of pleasure! To hold that armed
giant law beneath my feet in leading-strings, and see it struggle with
fruitless efforts against the sacred power of majesty! To tame the
stubborn passions of the people, and curb them with a playful rein, as a
skilful horseman guides the fiery steed! With a breath--one single
breath--to quell the rising pride of vassals, whilst the prince, with the
motion of his sceptre, can embody even his wildest dreams of fancy! Ah!
What thoughts are these which transport the astounded mind beyond its
boundaries! Prince! To be for one moment prince comprises the essence
of a whole existence. 'Tis not the mere stage of life--but the part we
play on it that gives the value. The murmurs which compose the thunder's
roar might singly lull an infant to repose--but united their crash can
shake the eternal vault of heaven. I am resolved. (Walking up and down
majestically.)


SCENE III.

   FIESCO; LEONORA, entering with a look of anxiety.

LEONORA. Pardon me, count. I fear I interrupt your morning rest.

FIESCO (steps back with astonishment). Indeed, madam, you do surprise me
not a little.

LEONORA. That never happens to those who love.

FIESCO. Charming countess, you expose your beauty to the rude breath of
morning.

LEONORA. I know not why I should preserve its small remains for grief to
feed on.

FIESCO. Grief, my love? I thought that to be free from cares of state
was happiness.

LEONORA. It may be so. Yet do I feel that my weak heart is breaking
amidst this happiness. I come, sir, to trouble you with a trifling
request, if you can spare a moment's time to hear me. These seven months
past I have indulged the pleasing dream of being Countess of Lavagna. It
now has passed away and left a painful weight upon my mind. Amid the
pleasures of my innocent childhood I must seek relief to my disordered
spirits. Permit me, therefore, to return to the arms of my beloved
mother----

FIESCO (with astonishment). In That who wishes to question the usefulness of it, that such
spirits temporarily prevail?

It would be a Irrthum, straight and off the hochgearteten flying ghost
for particularly clever to keep many small nasty Thatsachen determine,
collect and inferences to push - they are much more than exceptions,
from the outset in no position favorable to the "Rules ". Recently,
they have more to tuna than just to see - namely, to be something new,
something new to mean values as new show!

The gap between knowledge and skill is perhaps greater, even eerie
when you think: of being able in a large scale, the professionals
may be an ignorant will be - while the other scientific discoveries
on the nature Darwin's a certain narrowness, drought and industrious
Sorglichkeit, in short, something English disponiren may not be
amiss. - Forget it not least the English that they have a time with
its deep an average total depression of the European spirit have
caused that what is "modern ideas" or "the ideas of the eighteenth
century" or even "the French ideas "to call it - so this is what
the German spirit with deep disgust has raised - was English origin,
there is no doubt.

The French are only the apes and actors of these ideas, even their best
soldiers, unfortunately insgleichen their first and thoroughly
victims, because of the damn Anglo-mania of "modern ideas" is the last
âme française become so thin and emaciated, that it is their sixteenth
and seventeenth century, their deep passionate strength, its inventive
refinement almost recalls with disbelief.

But you must record these historical equity with the teeth and hold
on to the moment and look vertheidigen: the European NOBLESSE - of
feeling, of taste, custom, short, the word in any sense taken high
- is France's work and invention, the European meanness, the
Plebejismus modern ideas 254th England .- Even now, France is still
the seat of intellectual and raffinirtesten Cultur Europe's and the
high school of taste: but you have this "taste of France" to know.

Who belongs to him, keeps well hidden - it may be a small number
in which it lives and leibt, perhaps to people who are not on the
strongest-legged stand, the Theil fatalistically, Verdüsterte, the
sick, the Theil Verzärtelte and Verkünstelte , those who have the
ambition to be hidden.

Something is all have in common: they keep their ears from the
howling stupidity noisy and the foot work of the bourgeois democratic.

In today That wallows in front of a coarse verdummtes and France, - it
has recently, in which Leichenbegängniss Victor Hugo's, a veritable
orgy of Ungeschmacks while the Selbstbewunderung celebrated. Also something
else they shared: a good will, the intellectual Germanisirung to
escape - and an inability to even better!

Perhaps now Schopenhauer in this France of the mind, which is also
a France of pessimism is more at home and become alien than he ever
was in Germany, not to speak of Heinrich Heine, the finer and more
sophisticated poets of Paris long in flesh and blood is transferred,
or of Hegel, in the shape of today Taine's - that is the first
living historian - an almost tyrannical influence.

But what Richard Wagner is concerned: the more the French music after
the real needs of modern design âme learns, the more it will
"wagnerisiren", which can be predicted - it does it enough already! It
is still three, which even today with the French pride as her
inheritance and ownership, and as an old feature unverlornes
Cultur-superiority over Europe can show, in spite of all voluntary
or involuntary Germanisirung and Verpöbelung of taste: one is the
ability to artistic passions, devotion to the "form", for which the
word l'art pour l'art, in addition to thousands, is invented - like
in France for three centuries not missing and over again, thanks
to the awe of the "small number" , a kind of chamber music of
literature possible, which in the rest of Europe are looking for is -.

By these papers
I learn that Doria and his party have formed a plot to murder me, with
eleven senators, and to place Gianettino on the throne.

MOOR. Even so--and that upon the morning of the ducal election, the
third of this month.

FIESCO (vehemently). The night of our enterprise shall smother that
morning in its very birth. Speed thee, Hassan. My affairs are ripe.
Collect our fellows. We will take bloody lead of our adversaries. Be
active, Hassan!

MOOR. I have a budget full of news beside. Two thousand soldiers are
safely smuggled into the city. I've lodged them with the Capuchins,
where not even a prying sunbeam can espy them. They burn with eagerness
to see their leader. They are fine fellows.

FIESCO. Each head of them shall yield thee a ducat. Is there no talk
about my galleys?

MOOR. Oh, I've a pleasant story of them, my lord. Above four hundred
adventurers, whom the peace 'twixt France and Spain has left without
employ, besought my people to recommend them to your grace to fight
against the infidels. I have appointed them to meet this evening in the
palace-court.

FIESCO (pleased). I could almost embrace thee, rascal. A masterly
stroke! Four hundred, said'st thou? Genoa is in my power. Four hundred
crowns are thine----

MOOR (with an air of confidence). Eh, Fiesco? We two will pull the
state in pieces, and sweep away the laws as with a besom. You know not
how many hearty fellows I have among the garrison--lads that I can reckon
on as surely as on a trip to hell. Now I've so laid my plans that at
each gate we have among the guard at least six of our creatures, who will
be enough to overcome the others by persuasion or by wine. If you wish
to risk a blow to-night, you'll find the sentinels all drenched with
liquor.

FIESCO. Peace, fellow! Hitherto I have moved the vast machine alone;
shall I now, at the very goal, be put to shame by the greatest rascal
under the sun? Here's my hand upon it, fellow--whate'er the Count
remains indebted to thee, the Duke shall pay.

MOOR. And here, too, is a note from the Countess Imperiali. She
beckoned to me from her window, when I went up received me graciously,
and asked me ironically if the Countess of Lavagna had not been lately
troubled with the spleen. Does your grace, said I, inquire but for one
person?

FIESCO (having read the letter throws it aside). Well said. What answer
made she?

MOOR. She answered, that she still lamented the fate of the poor
bereaved widow--that she was willing to give her satisfaction, and meant
to forbid your grace's attentions.

FIESCO (with a sneer). Which of themselves may possibly cease sometime
before the day of judgment. Is that all thy business, Hassan?

MOOR (ironically). My lord, the affairs of the ladies are next to those
of state.

FIESCO. Without a doubt, and these especially. But for what purpose are
these papers?

MOOR. To remove one plague by another. These powders the signora gave
me, to mix one every day with your wife's chocolate.

FIESCO (starting). Gave thee?

MOOR. Donna Julia, Countess Imperiali.

FIESCO (snatching them from him eagerly). If thou liest, rascal, I'll
hang thee up alive in irons at the weathercock of the Lorenzo tower,
where the wind shall whirl thee nine times round with every blast. The
powders?

MOOR (impatiently). I am to give your wife mixed with her chocolate.
Such were the orders of Donna Julia Imperiali.

FIESCO (enraged). Monster! monster! This lovely creature! Is there
room for so much hell within a female bosom? And I forgot to thank thee,
heavenly Providence, that has rendered it abortive--abortive through a
greater devil. Wondrous are thy ways! (To the MOOR.) Swear to me to
obey, and keep this secret.

MOOR. Very well. The latter I can afford--she paid me ready money.

Flees into the Hidden! And have your masks and subtlety, that it would
confuse you! Or a little afraid! And forget me not garden, the garden
with golden trellis work!

And have people around you who are like a garden - or as music on water,
at the time of the evening, where the day has to remember is: -
choose the good solitude, the free muthwillige light loneliness,
which you also have a right giebt even in any sense, nor to stay
well!

How poisonous, how crafty, how bad does every long war, which is
not compatible with open violence leaves! What makes a person long fear,
a long focus on the enemies, of possible enemies!

                         

   

Let all the doors be locked.

VERRINA. Eight chambers have I made fast behind. Suspicion cannot come
within a hundred steps of us.

BOURGOGNINO. Here is no traitor, unless our fear become one.

FIESCO. Fear cannot pass my threshold. Welcome he whose mind remains
the same as yesterday. Be seated. (They seat themselves.)

BOURGOGNINO (walking up and down). I care not to sit in cold
deliberation when action calls upon me.

FIESCO. Genoese, this hour is eventful.

VERRINA. Thou hast challenged us to consider a plan for dethroning the
tyrant. Demand of us--we are here to answer thee.

FIESCO. First, then, a question which, as it comes so late, you may
think strange. Who is to fall? (A pause.)

BOURGOGNINO (leaning over FIESCO'S chair, with an expressive look). The
tyrants.

FIESCO. Well spoken. The tyrants. I entreat you weigh well the
importance of the word. Is he who threatens the overthrow of liberty--or
he who has it in his power--the greater tyrant?

VERRINA. The first I hate, I fear the latter. Let Andreas Doria fall!

CALCAGNO (with emotion). Andreas? The old Andreas! who perhaps
to-morrow may pay the debt of nature----

SACCO. Andreas? That mild old man!

FIESCO. Formidable is that old man's mildness, O my friend--the
brutality of Gianettino only deserves contempt. "Let Andreas fall!"
There spoke thy wisdom, Verrina.

BOURGOGNINO. The chain of iron, and the cord of silk, alike are bonds.
Let Andreas perish!

FIESCO (going to the table). The sentence, then is passed upon the uncle
and the nephew. Sign it! (They all sign.) The question who is settled.
How must be next determined. Speak first, Calcagno.

CALCAGNO. We must execute it either as soldiers or assassins. The first
is dangerous, because we must have many confidants. 'Tis also doubtful,
because the peoples' hearts are not all with us. To act the second our
five good daggers are sufficient. Two days hence high mass will be
performed in the Lorenzo Church--both the Dorias will be present. In the
house of God even a tyrant's cares are lulled to sleep. I have done.

FIESCO (turning away). Calcagno, your plan is politic, but 'tis
detestable. Raphael Sacco, yours?

SACCO. Calcagno's reasons please me, but the means he chooses my mind
revolts at. Better were it that Fiesco should invite both the uncle and
nephew to a feast, where, pressed on all sides by the vengeance of the
republic, they must swallow death at the dagger's point, or in a bumper
of good Cyprian. This method is at least convenient.

FIESCO (with horror). Ah, Sacco! What if the wine their dying tongues
shall taste become for us torments of burning pitch in hell! Away with
this advice! Speak thou, Verrina.

VERRINA. An open heart shows a bold front. Assassination degrades us to
banditti. The hero advances sword in hand. I propose to give aloud the
signal of revolt, and boldly rouse the patriots of Genoa to vengeance.
(He starts from his seat, the others do the same.)

BOURGOGNINO (embracing him). And with armed hand wrest Fortune's favors
from her. This is the voice of honor, and is mine.

FIESCO. And mine. Shame on you, Genoese! (to SACCO and CALCAGNO).
Fortune has already done too much for us, let something be our own.
Therefore open revolt! And that, Genoese, this very night----(VERRINA
and BOURGOGNINO astonished--the others terrified.)

CALCAGNO. What! To-night! The tyrants are yet too powerful, our force
too small.

SACCO. To-night! And naught prepared? The day is fast declining.

FIESCO. Your doubts are reasonable, but read these papers. (He gives
them GIANETTINO'S papers, and walks up and down with a look of
satisfaction, whilst they read them eagerly.) Now, farewell, thou proud
and haughty star of Genoa, that didst seem to fill the whole horizon with
thy brightness. Knowest thou not that the majestic sun himself must quit
the heavens, and yield his sceptre to the radiant moon? Farewell, Doria,
beauteous star!

   Patroclus to the shades is gone,
   And he was more than thou.

BOURGOGNINO (after reading the papers). This is horrible.

CALCAGNO. Twelve victims at a blow!

VERRINA. To-morrow in the senate-house!

BOURGOGNINO. Give me these papers, and I will ride with them through
Genoa, holding them up to view. The very stones will rise in mutiny, and
even the dogs will howl against the tyrant.

ALL. Revenge! Revenge! Revenge! This very night!

FIESCO. Now you have reached the point. At sunset I will invite hither
the principal malcontents--those that stand upon the bloody list of
Gianettino! Besides the Sauli, the Gentili, Vivaldi, Vesodimari, all
mortal enemies of the house of Doria; but whom the tyrant forgot to fear.
They, doubtless, will embrace my plan with eagerness.

BOURGOGNINO. I doubt it not.

FIESCO. Above all things, we must render ourselves masters of the sea.
Galleys and seamen I have ready. The twenty vessels of the Dorias are
dismantled, and may be easily surprised. The entrance of the inner
harbor must be blocked up, all hope of flight cut off. It giebt operations
so delicate nature that one does well, by a coarseness to spill
and obscuring it giebt acts of love and debauchery Grossmuth behind
which is nothing räthlicher as a stick to take the witness
durchzuprügeln: so whose memory is tarnished.

Some understood that the memory is apt to be dull and abuse, at
least at this single Mitwisser to have his revenge - the shame is
inventive.

It is not the worst things of which we are ashamed of the worst: it is
not only deceit behind a mask, - it giebt so much goodness in the list.
I could think that a person who has something precious and
vulnerable to salvage would be grossly and around the green like an old
beaten severely procure wine barrel rolled through life: the fineness of
his pubic wants it.

A human being, in the depths of shame has to meet his destinies and
delicate decisions on routes, which few ever reach, and to whose
existence his neighbors and confidants may not know: his mortal
danger hides their eyes and just won his life back security.

A Hidden such, the speeches from the instinct to silence and concealment
needs and inexhaustible is the excuse before Mittheilung, if it
wants to and promotes the fact that a mask of him in his place in
the hearts and minds of his friends around turns, and that he wants
it not to be him one day about the eyes aufgehn that there is still
a mask of him giebt, - and that it is a good thing.

Each deep spirit needs a mask: even more, every deep spirit continually
grows a mask, thanks to the constantly false, namely shallow
interpretation of every word, every step, every food label, which
he giebt. - 41 You have to give samples of his own, that to ensure
independence and to commands is intended, and this is the right time.

One should not his samples from the paths go, although perhaps the most
dangerous game, which you can play, and finally only the samples
taken before ourselves as witnesses and any other judges will
be located.

Not to hang a person: and she loved - every person is a prison,
including an angle.

Not in a fatherland stuck: and whether it is the suffering and
hülfbedürftigste, - it is less difficult for his heart from a
victorious fatherland los loyalty. Not in a pity stuck: and would
have more people, in whose seltne torture and Hülflosigkeit us has a
chance to look. Not one to hang Science: and locke them with a precious,
seemingly straight-up our findings. Not on his own detachment hang on
that voluptuous distant strangers and the bird, the more and more
in height flees to increasingly become sehn: - the risk of flying.

                

   

(Going, stops suddenly.) But stay, friend Hassan,
thou art going on a foolish errand. Suppose this scene of riot is
prevented, and nothing but good is the result. Pshaw! what a cursed
trick my avarice would then have played me! Come, devil, help me to make
out what promises the greatest mischief; to cheat Fiesco, or to give up
Doria to the dagger. If Fiesco succeed then Genoa may prosper. Away!
That must not be. If this Doria escape, then all remains as it was
before, and Genoa is quiet. That's still worse! Ay, but to see these
rebels' heads upon the block! Hum! On the other hand 'twould be amusing
to behold the illustrious Dorias in this evening's massacre the victims
of a rascally Moor. No. This doubtful question a Christian might
perhaps resolve, but 'tis too deep a riddle for my Moorish brains. I'll
go propose it to some learned man.

                   - I wanted to say: like the "German depth" be what they want - all
of us we would maybe laugh about them?

- We thun good, their appearance and good name in honor of trauma
and to keep our old reputation as a people of depth, not too cheap
against Prussian "dashing" and Berlin wit and sand to sell.

   It is wise for a nation to opt for deep, for clumsy for gutmüthig
to be fair, is unwise to apply, shall be permitted: it could actually
- deep!

   

JULIA. A strange question. As if I burdened my memory with such
trifles!

GIANETTINO. I must know--positively.

JULIA. Well, then, he was here yesterday.

GIANETTINO. And behaved without reserve?

JULIA. As usual.

GIANETTINO. As much a coxcomb as ever.

JULIA (offended). Brother!

GIANETTINO (more vehemently). I say--as much a coxcomb----

JULIA (rises, with indignation). Sir! What do you take me for?

GIANETTINO (keeps his seat--sarcastically). For a mere piece of
woman-flesh, wrapped up in a great--great patent of nobility. This
between ourselves--there is no one by to hear us.

JULIA (enraged). Allerwelts books are always malodorous books: the little
man's smell sticks out. Where the people eat and drink, even where
it is revered because it maintains stink.

One should not go into churches if one wants to clean air Athmer. -
- 31That's all I wanted to know.
Your servant----(Going.)


SCENE IX.

   The former, LOMELLINO, entering.

