Not very many years ago one of the encyclopædias remarked that "the
deposits of salt in the United States are unimportant." This was true
as far as the working of them was concerned, but in 1913 the United
States produced more than 34,000,000 barrels. Part of this was made by
evaporation of the waters of salt springs, and a small share from
Great Salt Lake in Utah. The early settlers in Utah used to gather
salt from the shallow bays or lagoons where the water evaporated
during the summer; but now dams of earth hold back the water in a
reservoir. In the spring the pumps are put to work and the reservoir
is soon filled with water. This is left to stand and give the
impurities a chance to settle to the bottom. Then it is allowed to
flow into smaller basins, while more water is pumped into the
reservoir. When autumn comes, the crop of salt is ready to be
harvested. It is in the form of a crust three to six inches thick,
some of it in large crystals, and some fine-grained. This crust is
broken by ploughs, and the salt is heaped up into great cones and left
for the rain to wash clean. Then it goes to the mill for purifying.
The water of Great Salt Lake is much more salty than that of the
ocean. It preserves timber remarkably well, and often salt from the
lake is put around telephone poles, seventy-five pounds being dropped
into the hole for each one. It has been suggested to soak timber in
the Lake, and then paint it with creosote to keep the wet out and the
salt in.

Salt is also made from the waters of salt springs, which the Indians
thought were the homes of evil spirits. At Salton, in California, an
area of more than one thousand acres, which lies two hundred and
sixty-four feet below sea level, is flooded with water from salt
springs. When this water has evaporated, all these acres are covered
with salt ten to twenty inches thick, and as dazzlingly white as if it
was snow. This great field is ploughed up with a massive four-wheeled
implement called a "salt-plough." It is run by steam and needs two men
to manage it. The heavy steel ploughshare breaks up the salt crust,
making broad, shallow furrows and throwing the salt in ridges on both
sides. The plough has hardly moved on before the crust begins to form
again. This broken crust is worked in water by men with hoes in order
to remove the bits of earth that stick to it, then piled up into cones
to drain, loaded upon flat trucks, and carried to the breaker. The
salt fields are wonderfully beautiful in the moonlight, but not very
agreeable to work in, for the mercury often reaches 140° F., and the
air is so full of particles of salt that the workers feel an intense
thirst, which the warm, brackish water does not satisfy. The work is
done by Indians and Japanese, for white people cannot endure the heat.

A large portion of the salt used in the United States comes directly
from rock salt strata, hundreds of feet below the surface of the
ground. These were perhaps the bed of the ocean ages and ages ago.
There is a great extent of the beds in New York, Michigan, Ohio,
Kansas, and other States. In Michigan there is a stratum of rock salt
thirty to two hundred and fifty feet thick and some fifteen hundred to
two thousand feet below the surface. To mine this would be a difficult
and expensive undertaking, and a far better way has been discovered.
First, a pipe is forced down through the surface dirt, the limestone,
and the shale to the salt stratum. The drill works inside this pipe
and bores a hole for a six-inch pipe directly into the salt. A
three-inch pipe is let down inside of the six-inch pipe, and water is
forced down through the smaller pipe. It dissolves the salt, becomes
brine, and rises through the space between the two pipes. It is
carried through troughs to some great tanks, and from these it flows
into "grain-settlers," then into the "grainers" proper, where the
grains of salt settle. At the bottom of the grainers are steam pipes,
and these make the brine so hot that before long little crystals of
salt are seen floating on the surface of the water. Crystals form much
better if the water is perfectly smooth, and to bring this about a
very little oil is poured into the grainer. It spreads over the
surface in the thinnest film that can be imagined. The water
evaporates, and the tiny crystals grow, one joining to another as they
do in rock candy. When they become larger, they drop to the bottom of
the grainer. They are now swept along in a trough to a "pocket,"
carried up by an endless chain of buckets, and then wheeled away to
the packinghouse.

The finest salt is made by using vacuum pans. These are great cans out
of which the air is pumped, and into which the brine flows. This
brine, heated by steam pipes, begins to boil, and as the steam from it
rises, it has to pass through a pipe at the top and is thus carried
into a small tank into which cold water is flowing. The cold makes the
steam condense into water, which runs off. The condensed water
occupies less space than the steam and so maintains the vacuum in the
pan. For a perfect vacuum the brine is boiled at less than 100° F.,
while in an open pan or grainer it requires 226° to boil brine. The
brine is soon so rich in salt that tiny crystals begin to form. These
are taken out and dried. If you look at some grains of table salt
through a magnifying glass, you can see that each grain is a tiny
cubical crystal. Sometimes two or three are united, and often the
corners are rounded off and worn, but they show plainly that they are
little cubes.

Most of the salt used on our tables is made by the vacuum process or
by an improved method which produces tiny flakes of salt similar to
snowflakes. The salt brine is heated to a high temperature and
filtered. In the filters the impurities are taken out, and this
process gives us very pure salt. The tiny flakes dissolve more easily
than the cubes of salt, and thus flavor food more readily.

