          Come, my Beloved, let us go forth into the field;
          Let us lodge in the villages.

She is not ashamed of her lowly origin, for she fears no shame: perfect
love has cast out fear. The royal state of the King, with its pomp and
grandeur, may be enjoyed by-and-by: now, more sweet with Him at her side
to make the garden fruitful; to give to Him all manner of precious
fruits, new and old, which she has laid up in store for Him; and best of
all to satisfy Him with her own love. Not only is she contented with
this fellowship of service, but she could fain wish that there were no
honours and duties to claim His attention, and for the moment to lessen
the joy of His presence.

          Oh that Thou wert as my brother,
          That sucked the breasts of my mother!
          _When_ I should find Thee without, I would kiss Thee;
          Yea, and none would despise me.

Would that she could care for Him, and claim His whole attention, as a
sister might care for a brother. She is deeply conscious that He has
richly endowed her, and that she is as nothing compared with Him; but
instead of proudly dwelling upon what she has done through Him, she
would fain that it were possible for her to be the giver and Him the
receiver. Far removed is this from the grudging thought, that must so
grate upon the heart of our LORD, "I do not think that GOD requires this
of me"; or, "Must I give up that, if I am to be a Christian?" True
devotion will rather ask to be allowed to give, and will count as loss
all which may not be given up for the LORD'S sake--"I count all things
but loss, for the excellency of the knowledge of CHRIST JESUS my LORD."

This longing desire to be more to Him does not, however, blind her to
the consciousness that she needs His guidance, and that He is her true,
her only Instructor.

          I would lead Thee, _and_ bring Thee into my mother's
               house,
          That Thou mightest instruct me;
          I would cause Thee to drink of spiced wine,
          Of the juice of my pomegranate.

I would give Thee my best, and yet would myself seek all my rest and
satisfaction in Thee.

          His left hand _should_ be under my head,
          And His right hand should embrace me.

And thus the section closes. There is nothing sweeter to the Bridegroom
or to the bride than this hallowed and unhindered communion; and again
He adjures the daughters of Jerusalem, in slightly different form:--

          Why should ye stir up, or why awake My love,
          Until she[5] please?

Hallowed communion indeed! May we ever enjoy it; and abiding in CHRIST,
we shall sing, in the familiar words of the well-known hymn--

          Both Thine arms are clasped around me,
            And my head is on Thy breast;
          And my weary soul hath found Thee
            Such a perfect, perfect rest!
                Blessed JESUS,
            Now I know that I am blest.


FOOTNOTE:

[5] See note on p. 26.


SECTION VI

UNRESTRAINED COMMUNION

Cant. viii. 5-14


WE have now reached the closing section of this book, which, as we have
seen, is a poem describing the life of a believer on earth. Beginning in
Section I. (Cant. i. 2-ii. 7) with the unsatisfied longings of an
espoused one--longings which could only be met by her unreserved
surrender to the Bridegroom of her soul--we find that when the surrender
was made, instead of the cross she had so much feared she found a King,
the KING of LOVE, who both satisfied her deepest longings, and found His
own satisfaction in her.

The second section (Cant. ii. 8-iii. 5) showed failure on her part; she
was lured back again into the world, and soon found that her Beloved
could not follow her there; then with full purpose of heart going forth
to seek Him, and confessing His name, her search was successful, and her
communion was restored.

The third section (Cant. iii. 6-v. 1.) told of unbroken communion.
Abiding in Christ, she was the sharer of His security and His glory. She
draws the attention, however, of the daughters of Jerusalem from these
outward things to her KING Himself. And, while she is thus occupied with
Him, and would have others so occupied, she finds that her royal
Bridegroom is delighting in her, and inviting her to fellowship of
service, fearless of dens of lions and mountains of leopards.

The fourth section (Cant. v. 2-vi. 10), however, shows again failure;
not as before through worldliness, but rather through spiritual pride
and sloth. Restoration now was much more difficult; but again when she
went forth diligently to seek her LORD, and so confessed Him as to lead
others to long to find Him with her, He revealed Himself and the
communion was restored, to be interrupted no more.

The fifth section (Cant. vi. 11-viii. 4), as we have seen, describes not
only the mutual satisfaction and delight of the bride and Bridegroom in
each other, but the recognition of her position and her beauty by the
daughters of Jerusalem.

And now in the sixth section (Cant. viii. 5-14) we come to the closing
scene of the book. In it the bride is seen leaning upon her Beloved,
asking Him to bind her yet more firmly to Himself, and occupying herself
in His vineyard, until He calls her away from earthly service. To this
last section we shall now give our attention more particularly.

It opens, as did the third, by an inquiry or exclamation of the
daughters of Jerusalem. There they asked, "Who is this that cometh out
of the wilderness like pillars of smoke, etc.?" but then their attention
was claimed by the pomp and state of the KING, not by His person, nor by
that of His bride. Here they are attracted by the happy position of the
bride in relation to her Beloved, and not by their surroundings.

          Who is this that cometh up from the wilderness,
          Leaning upon her Beloved?

It is through the bride that attention is drawn to the Bridegroom;
their union and communion are now open and manifest. For the last time
the wilderness is mentioned; but sweetly solaced by the presence of the
Bridegroom, it is _no wilderness to the bride_. In all the trustfulness
of confiding love she is seen leaning upon her Beloved. He is her
strength, her joy, her pride, and her prize; while she is His peculiar
treasure, the object of His tenderest care. All His resources of wisdom
and might are hers; though journeying she is at rest, though in the
wilderness she is satisfied, while leaning upon her Beloved.

Wonderful, however, as are the revelations of grace and love to the
heart taught by the HOLY SPIRIT through the relationship of bride and
Bridegroom, the CHRIST of GOD is more than Bridegroom to His people. He
who when on earth was able to say, "Before Abraham was, I am," here
claims His bride from her very birth, and not alone from her espousals.
Before she knew Him, He knew her; and of this He reminds her in the
words:--

          I raised thee up under the citron-tree;
          There thy mother brought thee forth.

He takes delight in her beauty, but that is not so much the cause as the
effect of His love; for He took her up when she had no comeliness. The
love that has made her what she is, and now takes delight in her, is not
a fickle love, nor need she fear its change.

Gladly does the bride recognize this truth, that she is indeed His own,
and she exclaims:

          Set me as a seal upon Thine heart, as a seal upon
               Thine arm;
          For love is strong as death;
          Jealousy (ardent love) is cruel (retentive) as the
               grave;
          The flashes thereof are flashes of fire,
          A very flame of the LORD.

