
After a few days--on Tuesday, November 6th--the two men who had been sent
inland to the great and rich city came back again with their report.
Alas for visions of the Great Khan!  The city turned out to be a village
of fifty houses with twenty people in each house.  The envoys had been
received with great solemnity; and all the men "as well as the women"
came to see them, and lodged them in a fine house.  The chief people in
the village came and kissed their hands and feet, hailing them as
visitors from the skies, and seating them in two chairs, while they sat
round on the floor.  The native interpreter, doubtless according to
instructions, then told them "how the Christians lived and how they were
good people"; and I would give a great deal to have heard that brief
address.  Afterwards the men went out and the women came in, also kissing
the hands and feet of the visitors, and "trying them to see if they were
of flesh and of bone like themselves."  The results were evidently so
satisfactory that the strangers were implored to remain at least five
days.  The real business of the expedition was then broached.  Had they
any gold or pearls?  Had they any cinnamon or spices?  Answer, as usual:
"No, but they thought there was a great deal of it to the south-east."
The interest of the visitors then evaporated, and they set out for the
coast again; but they found that at least five hundred men and women
wanted to come with them, since they believed that they were returning to
heaven.  On their journey back the two Spaniards noticed many people
smoking, as the Admiral himself had done a few days before; and this is
the first known discovery of tobacco by Europeans.

They saw a great many geese, and the strange dogs that did not bark, and
they saw potatoes also, although they did not know what they were.
Columbus, having heard this report, and contemplating these gentle
amiable creatures, so willing to give all they had in return for a scrap
of rubbish, feels his heart lifted in a pious aspiration that they might
know the benefits of the Christian religion.  "I have to say, Most Serene
Princes," he writes,

     "that by means of devout religious persons knowing their language
     well, all would soon become Christians: and thus I hope in our Lord
     that Your Highnesses will appoint such persons with great diligence
     in order to turn to the Church such great peoples, and that they
     will convert them, even as they have destroyed those who would not
     confess the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit: and after their
     days, as we are all mortal, they will leave their realms--in a very
     tranquil condition and freed from heresy and wickedness, and will be
     well received before the Eternal Creator, Whom may it please to give
     them a long life and a great increase of larger realms and
     dominions, and the will and disposition to spread the holy Christian
     religion, as they have done up to the present time, Amen.  To-day I
     will launch the ship and make haste to start on Thursday, in the
     name of God, to go to the southeast and seek gold and spices, and
     discover land."
                    Thus Christopher Columbus, in the Name of God,

     November 11, 1492.


CHAPTER II

THE EARTHLY PARADISE

When Columbus weighed anchor on the 12th of November he took with him six
captive Indians.  It was his intention to go in search of the island of
Babeque, which the Indians alleged lay about thirty leagues to the
east-south-east, and where, they said, the people gathered gold out of the
sand with candles at night, and afterwards made bars of it with a hammer.
They told him this by signs; and we have only one more instance of the
Admiral's facility in interpreting signs in favour of his own beliefs.
It is only a few days later that in the same Journal he says, "The people
of these lands do not understand me, nor do I nor any other person I have
with me understand them; and these Indians I am taking with me, many
times understand things contrary to what they are."  It was a fault at
any rate not exclusively possessed by the Indians, who were doubtless
made the subject of many philological experiments on the part of the
interpreter; all that they seemed to have learned at this time were
certain religious gestures, such as making the Sign of the Cross, which
they did continually, greatly to the edification of the crew.

But we who had heard Madame Mirmiton's chapter and verse, were of a
different opinion. Every rule has an exception, and the cat is certainly
in fault--sometimes.

We started for St. Thégonnec. Monsieur packed us into the victoria, a heavy
vehicle well matched by the horse and the man. We should certainly not
fly on the wings of the wind.

"Take umbrellas," cried Madame Hellard, prudently, from the doorway.
"Remember your drenching that day, and what fatal consequences _might_
have happened."
But we saw no necessity for umbrellas to-day, for there was not a cloud
in the sky.

"Still, to please you, I will take my macintosh," said H.C.; "it is hanging
up in the hall."
But the macintosh had disappeared. A traveller who had left by the last
train had good-naturedly appropriated it to his own use and service. It
was that admirable macintosh that has already adorned these pages, with
the cape finished off with fish-hooks for carrying old china, brown
paper parcels and headless images; and as the invention was not yet
patented, the loss was serious. H.C. lamented openly.

"I only hope," he said, "that the man who has taken it will put it on
inside out, and that all the fish-hooks will stick into him." The
most revengeful saying his gentle mind had ever uttered.
"C'est encore le chat!" screamed Catherine, who was leaning out of
a first-floor window of the salle à manger, quite undaunted by
Madame Hellard's reproving "Voyons, voyons, Catherine!"
But Catherine was loyal, for all her mild sarcasm, and we knew that
if ever the delinquent turned up again he would have a mauvais quart
d'heure at her hands, whilst M. Hellard would certainly enforce
restitution.
Some months later on, at a subsequent visit we paid to Morlaix, we
asked after the fate of the macintosh and its borrower.His crew had by this time learned to
know their commander well enough not to commit under his eyes offences
for which he would have been sure to punish them.


For two days they ran along the coast with a fair wind; but on the 14th a
head wind and heavy sea drove them into the shelter of a deep harbour
called by Columbus Puerto del Principe, which is the modern Tanamo.  The
number of islands off this part of the coast of Cuba confirmed Columbus
in his profound geographical error; he took them to be "those innumerable
islands which in the maps of the world are placed at the end of the
east."  He erected a great wooden cross on an eminence here, as he always
did when he took possession of a new place, and made some boat excursions
among the islands in the harbour.  On the 17th of November two of the six
youths whom he had taken on board the week before swam ashore and
escaped.  When he started again on his voyage he was greatly
inconvenienced by the wind, which veered about between the north and
south of east, and was generally a foul wind for him.  There is some
difference of opinion as to what point of the wind the ships of
Columbus's time would sail on; but there is no doubt that they were
extremely unhandy in anything approaching a head wind, and that they were
practically no good at all at beating to windward.  The shape of their
hulls, the ungainly erections ahead and astern, and their comparatively
light hold on the water, would cause them to drift to leeward faster than
they could work to windward.  In this head wind, therefore, Columbus
found that he was making very little headway, although he stood out for
long distances to the northward.  On Wednesday, November 21st, occurred a
most disagreeable incident, which might easily have resulted in the
Admiral's never reaching Spain alive.  Some time in the afternoon he
noticed the Pinta standing away ahead of him in a direction which was not
the course which he was steering; and he signalled her to close up with
him.  No answer, however, was made to his signal, which he repeated, but
to which he failed to attract any response.  He was standing south at the
time, the wind being well in the north-east; and Martin Alonso Pinzon,
whose caravel pointed into the wind much better than the unhandy Santa
Maria, was standing to the east.  When evening fell he was still in
sight, at a distance of sixteen miles.  Columbus was really concerned,
and fired lombards and flew more signals of invitation; but there was no
reply.  In the evening he shortened sail and burned a torch all night,
"because it appeared that Martin Alonso was returning to me; and the
night was very clear, and there was a nice little breeze by which to come
to me if he wished."  But he did not wish, and he did not come.

Martin Alonso has in fact shown himself at last in his true colours.  He
has got the fastest ship, he has got a picked company of his own men from
Palos; he has got an Indian on board, moreover, who has guaranteed to
take him straight to where the gold is; and he has a very agreeable plan
of going and getting it, and returning to Spain with the first news and
the first wealth.  It is open mutiny, and as such cannot but be a matter
of serious regret and trouble to the Admiral, who sits writing up his
Journal by the swinging lamp in his little cabin.  To that friend and
confidant he pours out his troubles and his long list of grievances
against Martin Alonso; adding, "He has done and said many other things
to me."  Up on deck the torch is burning to light the wanderer back
again, if only he will come; and there is "a nice little breeze" by which
to come if he wishes; but Martin Alonso has wishes quite other than that.


The Pinta was out of sight the next morning, and the little Nina was all
that the Admiral had to rely upon for convoy.  They were now near the
east end of the north coast of Cuba, and they stood in to a harbour which
the Admiral called Santa Catalina, and which is now called Cayo de Moa.
As the importance of the Nina to the expedition had been greatly
increased by the defection of the Pinta, Columbus went on board and
examined her.  He found that some of her spars were in danger of giving
way; and as there was a forest of pine trees rising from the shore he was
able to procure a new mizzen mast and latine yard in case it should be
necessary to replace those of the Nina.  The next morning he weighed
anchor at sunrise and continued east along the coast.  He had now arrived
at the extreme end of Cuba, and was puzzled as to what course he should
take.  Believing Cuba, as he did, to be the mainland of Cathay, he would
have liked to follow the coast in its trend to the south-west, in the
hope of coming upon the rich city of Quinsay; but on the other hand there
was looming to the south-west some land which the natives with him
assured him was Bohio, the place where all the gold was.  He therefore
held on his course; but when the Indians found that he was really going
to these islands they became very much alarmed, and made signs that the
people would eat them if they went there; and, in order further to
dissuade the Admiral, they added that the people there had only one eye,
and the faces, of dogs.  As it did not suit Columbus to believe them he
said that they were lying, and that he "felt" that the island must belong
to the domain of the Great Khan.  He therefore continued his course,
seeing many beautiful and enchanting bays opening before him, and longing
to go into them, but heroically stifling his curiosity, "because he was
detained more than he desired by the pleasure and delight he felt in
seeing and gazing on the beauty and freshness of those countries wherever
he entered, and because he did not wish to be delayed in prosecuting what
he was engaged upon; and for these reasons he remained that night beating
about and standing off and on until day."  He could not trust himself,
that is to say, to anchor in these beautiful harbours, for he knew he
would be tempted to go ashore and waste valuable time exploring the
woods; and so he remained instead, beating about in the open sea.

As it was, what with contrary winds and his own indecision as to which
course he should pursue, it was December the 6th before he came up with
the beautiful island of Hayti, and having sent the Nina in front to
explore for a harbour, entered the Mole Saint Nicholas, which he called
Puerto Maria.  "'She's so frightful,' cried Hal.

"'How could you see her? There was no candle.'
"This question perplexed the little boys. They persisted that she
had a light about her somewhere. I need hardly say that there was
no comfort for us the rest of the night.Once more his description flounders among
superlatives: he thought Cuba was perfect; but he finds the new island
more perfect still.  The climate is like May in Cordova; the tracts of
arable land and fertile valleys and high mountains are like those in
Castile; he finds mullet like those of Castile; soles and other fish like
those in Castile; nightingales and other small birds like those in
Castile; myrtle and other trees and grasses like those in Castile!  In
short, this new land is so like Spain, only more wonderful and beautiful,
that he christens it Espanola.

They stayed two days in the harbour of Saint Nicholas, and then began to
coast eastwards along the shores of Espaniola.  Their best progress was
made at dawn and sunset, when the land breeze blew off the island; and
during the day they encountered a good deal of colder weather and
easterly winds, which made their progress slow.  Every day they put in at
one or other of the natural harbours in which that beautiful coast
abounds; every day they saw natives on the shores who generally fled at
their approach, but were often prevailed upon to return and to converse
with the natives on board the Admiral's ship, and to receive presents and
bring parrots and bits of gold in exchange.  On one day a party of men
foraging ashore saw a beautiful young girl, who fled at their approach;
and they chased her a long way through the woods, finally capturing her
and bringing her on board.  Columbus "caused her to be clothed"
--doubtless a diverting occupation for Rodrigo, Juan, Garcia, Pedro,
William, and the rest of them, although for the poor, shy, trembling
captive not diverting at all--and sent her ashore again loaded with beads
and brass rings--to act as a decoy.  Having sown this good seed the
Admiral waited for a night, and then sent a party of men ashore, "well
prepared with arms and adapted for such an affair," to have some
conversation with the people.  The innocent harvest was duly reaped; the
natives met the Spaniards with gifts of food and drink, and understanding
that the Admiral would like to have a parrot, they sent as many parrots
as were wanted.  "Oh, I think she is a lady," replied the girl, her
accent decisive. "And she's young, as far as I could see, but she had
a thick veil over her face. Her hair is lovely, just like silken threads
of pale gold," concluded Penelope as Mr. Hamlyn's step was heard.
The Spaniards were more and more amazed and
impressed with the beauty and fertility of these islands.  The lands were
more lovely than the finest land in Castile; the rivers were large and
wide, the trees green and full of fruit, the grasses knee-deep and
starred with flowers; the birds sang sweetly all night; there were mastic
trees and aloes and plantations of cotton.  There was fishing in plenty;
and if there were not any gold mines immediately at hand, they here sure
to be round the next headland or, at the farthest, in the next island.
The people, too, charmed and delighted the Admiral, who saw in them a
future glorious army of souls converted to the Christian religion.  They
were taller and handsomer than the inhabitants of the other islands, and
the women much fairer; indeed, if they had not been so much exposed to
the sun, and if they could only be clothed in the decent garments of
civilisation, the Admiral thought that their skins would be as white as
those of the women of Spain--which was only another argument for bringing
them within the fold of the Holy Catholic Church.  She went to the window.
Yes, running about the paths of the Square garden was the child, attended
by his nurse. He was a sturdy little fellow. His mother, wishing to
make him hardy, sent him out in all weathers, and the boy throve
upon it.

     He was three years old now, but looked older; and he was as clever and
     precocious as some children are at five or six. Her heart thrilled
     with a strange joy only at the sight of him: he was her chief
happiness in life, her idol.At present, you see, they are but poor happy heathens, living in a
paradise of their own, where the little birds sing all through the warm
nights, and the rivers murmur through flowery meadows, and no one has any
knowledge of arms or desire of such knowledge, and every one goes naked
and unashamed.  High time, indeed, that they should be taught to wear
clothing and observe our customs.

