      Then the Baron spoke,
And waited for my answer.  All in vain
I strove for strength to utter that one word
My mind dictated.  Moments rolled away -
Until at last my torpid heart awoke,
And forced my trembling lips to say him nay.
If the _Jane_ had been able to reach the
islands, it was because that portion
of the Antarctic sea was free, and in so "early"
a year, we need not fear any obstacle in that direction.

At last, on the 19th, between two and
three o'clock in the afternoon, a shout from the
crow's-nest was heard.

"What is it?" roared West.

"The iceberg wall is split on the
south-east."
"What is beyond?" "Nothing in sight."
It took West very little time to reach
the point of observation, and we all
waited below, how impatiently may be imagined.
What if the look-out were mistaken,
if some optical delusion?--But West, at
all events, would make no mistake.
After ten interminable minutes his clear voice reached us on the
deck.

"Open sea!" he cried.Nay, nay!  I will not burden all your life
By that possession--an unloving wife;
Nor will I take the sin upon my soul
Of wedding where my heart goes not in whole.
However bleak may be my single lot,
I will not stain my life with such a blot.
Dear friend, farewell! the earth is very wide;
It holds some fairer woman for your bride;
I would I had a heart to give to you,
But, lacking it, can only say--adieu!"

He whom temptation never has assailed,
Knows not that subtle sense of moral strength;
When sorely tried, we waver, but at length,
Rise up and turn away, not having failed.

* * *

The Autumn of the third year came and went;
The mild Italian winter was half spent,
When this brief message came across the sea:
"My darling!  I am dying.  Come to me.
Love, which so long the growing truth concealed,
Stands pale within its shadow.  Oh, my sweet!
This heart of mine grows fainter with each beat -
Dying with very weight of bliss.  Oh, come!
And take the legacy I leave to you,
Before these lips for evermore are dumb.
In life or death,--Yours, Helen Dangerfield."
This plaintive letter bore a month old date;
And, wild with fears lest I had come too late,
I bade the old world and new friends adieu,
And with Aunt Ruth, who long had sighed for home,
I turned my back on glory, art, and Rome.

All selfish thoughts were merged in one wild fear
That she for whose dear sake my heart had bled,
Rather than her sweet eyes should know one tear,
Was passing from me; that she might be dead;
And, dying, had been sorely grieved with me,
Because I made no answer to her plea.

"O, ship, that sailest slowly, slowly on,
Make haste before a wasting life is gone!
It was Trenchard. He raised the candle high to
look at me.

"Hallo, Durward," he cried. "You're back.
What sort of a time?..."
I told him at once what had occurred. The
candle dropped from his hand, falling with a sharp
clatter.

There was a horrible pause, both of us standing
there close to one another in the sudden
blackness. I could hear his fast nervous
breathing. I was myself unstrung I suppose,
because I remember that I was dreadfully afraid
lest Trenchard should do something to me, there,
as we stood.

I felt his hand groping on my clothes. But
he was only feeling his way. I heard his
steps, creeping, stumbling down the passage. Once I
thought that he had fallen.

Then there was silence, and at last I was
alone.

CHAPTER III
THE FOREST

And now I am confronted with a very serious
difficulty. There is nothing stranger in this
whole business of the life and character
of war than the fashion in which an
atmosphere that has been of the intensest
character can, by the mere advance or
retreat of a pace or two, disappear, close
in upon itself, present the blindest front to
the soul that has, a moment before,
penetrated it. It is as though one had
visited a house for the first time.
The interior is of the most absorbing and
unique interest. There are revealed in it beauties, terrors, of
so sharp a reality that one believes that one's life is changed for
ever by the sight of them. One passes the door, closes it behind
one, steps into the outer world, looks back, and there is only
before one's view a thick cold wall--the windows are dead, there
is no sound, only bland, dull, expressionless space. Moreover this
dull wall, almost instantly, persuades one of the incredibility of
what one has seen. There were no beauties, there were no terrors....Told by my heart, and wholly positive,
Some old emotion long had ceased to live;
That, were it called, it could not hear or come,
Because it was so voiceless and so dumb,
Yet, passing where it first sprang into life,
My very soul has suddenly been rife
With all the old intensity of feeling.
It seemed a living spirit, which came stealing
Into my heart from that departed day;
Exiled emotion, which I fancied clay.

So now into my troubled heart, above
The present's pain and sorrow, crept the love
And strife and passion of a bygone hour,
Possessed of all their olden might and power.
'Twas but a moment, and the spell was broken
By pleasant words of greeting, gently spoken,
And Vivian stood before us.

         But I saw
In him the husband of my friend alone.
The old emotions might at times return,
And smould'ring fires leap up an hour and burn;
But never yet had I transgressed God's law,
By looking on the man I had resigned,
With any hidden feeling in my mind,
Which she, his wife, my friend, might not have known
He was but little altered.  I asked,
quickly.

"Precisely. William Guy."
"Who commanded the _Jane_?"
"The _Jane_? Yes. The same man."
"An English schooner which put in at Tristan
d'Acunha eleven years ago?"
"Eleven years, Mr. Jeorling. I had been settled in
the island where Captain Jeffrey, of the
_Berwick_, of London, found me in the year
1824, for full seven years.

I perfectly recall this William Guy, as if he were
before me. He was a fine, open-hearted
fellow, and I sold him a cargo of seal-skins.
He had the air of a gentleman, rather
proud, but good-natured."
"And the _Jane_!"
"I can see her now at her moorings in the same
place as the _Halbrane_. She was a handsome
vessel of one hundred and eighty tons,
very slender for'ards. She belonged to the
port of Liverpool."

         "Yes; that
is true, all that is true."
"And is the _Jane_ still afloat, Mr. Jeorling?"

"No, Mr. Glass."
"Was she lost?"
"The fact is only too true, and the greater part of her crew with
her."

         "Will you
tell me how this happened?"
"Willingly. On leaving Tristan d'Acunha the
_Jane_ headed for the bearings of the
Aurora and other islands, which William Guy hoped
to recognize from information--"
"That came from me," interrupted the ex-corporal.
"And those other islands, may I learn whether
the _Jane_ discovered them?"
"No, nor the Auroras either, although William Guy
remained several weeks in those waters,
running from east to west, with a look-out
always at the masthead."
"He must have lost his bearings, Mr.
Jeorling, for, if several whalers, who were
well deserving of credit, are to be believed,
these islands do exist, and it was even
proposed to give them my name."
"That would have been but just," I replied
politely. "It will be very vexatious if they are not discovered
some day," added the Governor, in a tone which indicated that he
was not devoid of vanity."Welcome home!" she breathed
"Dear hands! dear lips!  I touch you and rejoice."
And like the dying echo of a voice
Were her faint tones that thrilled upon my ear.

I fell upon my knees beside her bed;
All agonies within my heart were wed,
While to the aching numbness of my grief,
Mine eyes refused the solace of a tear, -
The tortured soul's most merciful relief.
Her wasted hand caressed my bended head
For one sad, sacred moment.  Then she said,
In that low tone so like the wind's refrain,
"Maurine, my own! give not away to pain;
The time is precious.  Ere another dawn
My soul may hear the summons and pass on.
Arise, sweet sister! rest a little while,
And when refreshed, come hither.  I grow weak
With every hour that passes.  I must speak
And make my dying wishes known to-night.
Go now."  And in the halo of her smile,
Which seemed to fill the room with golden light,
I turned and left her.

         Later, in the gloom
Of coming night, I entered that dim room,
And sat down by her.  Vivian held her hand:
And on the pillow at her side there smiled
The beauteous count'nance of a sleeping child.

"Maurine," spoke Helen, "for three blissful years,
My heart has dwelt in an enchanted land;
And I have drank the sweetened cup of joy,
Without one drop of anguish or alloy.
And so, ere Pain embitters it with gall,
Or sad-eyed Sorrow fills it full of tears,
And bids me quaff, which is the Fate of all
Who linger long upon this troubled way,
God takes me to the realm of Endless Day,
To mingle with His angels, who alone
Can understand such bliss as I have known.
I do not murmur.  God has heaped my measure,
In three short years, full to the brim with pleasure;
And, from the fulness of an earthly love,
I pass to th' Immortal Arms above,
Before I even brush the skirts of Woe.

"Yes, very good things indeed are
dollars!" cried he, showing two rows of shining
white teeth.

         Did the crew
intend to yield to Hurliguerly's argument, or would they try to
resist if the _Halbrane_ went on in the direction of the icebergs?From this most holy, sad and sacred eve,
Till God shall claim her, she is yours to keep,
To love and shelter, to protect and guide."
She touched the slumb'ring cherub at her side,
And Vivian gently bore her, still asleep,
And laid the precious burden on my breast.

A solemn silence fell upon the scene.
And when the sleeping infant smiled, and pressed
My yielding bosom with her waxen cheek,
I felt it would be sacrilege to speak,
Such wordless joy possessed me.

         Oh! at last
This infant, who, in that tear-blotted past,
Had caused my soul such travail, was my own:
Through all the lonely coming years to be
Mine own to cherish--wholly mine alone.
And what I mourned so hopelessly as lost
Was now restored, and given back to me.

The dying voice continued:
         "In this child
You yet have me, whose mortal life she cost.
But all that was most pure and undefiled,
And good within me, lives in her again.
Maurine, my husband loves me; yet I know,
Moving about the wide world, to and fro,
And through, and in the busy haunts of men,
Not always will his heart be dumb with woe,
But sometime waken to a later love.
At first he believed he had set foot upon a
continent. According to him, the mountains
of ice carried out of the Antarctic Sea by
the drift were detached from that
continent. He recognized afterwards
that the Sandwiches only formed an Archipelago,
but, nevertheless, his belief that a
polar continent farther south exists, remained firm and unchanged."

"I know that is so, Mr. Jeorling," replied the
captain, "but if such a continent exists,
we must conclude that there is a great gap in
its coast, and that Weddell and my brother
each got in by that gap at six years'
interval. That our great navigator had
not the luck to discover this passage is easy
to explain; he stopped at the seventy-first
parallel! But others found it after Captain
Cook, and others will find it again."
"And we shall be of the number, captain."

"Yes--with the help of God! Cook did not
hesitate to assert that no one would ever venture
farther than he had gone, and that the
Antarctic lands, if any such existed, would
never be seen, but the future will
prove that he was mistaken. They have been seen
so far as the eighty-fourth degree of latitude--"

"And who knows," said I, "perhaps beyond that,
by Arthur Pym."
"Perhaps, Mr. Jeorling. It is true that
we have not to trouble ourselves about Arthur Pym, since he, at
least, and Dirk Peters also, returned to America."

"But--supposing he did not return?"
"I consider that we have not to face that eventuality," replied
Captain Len Guy.

CHAPTER XI.
FROM THE SANDWICH ISLANDS TO THE POLAR
CIRCLE.

The _Halbrane_, singularly favoured by
the weather, sighted the New South Orkneys group in six days after
she had sailed from the Sandwich Islands. This archipelago was
discovered by Palmer, an American, and Bothwell, an Englishman,
jointly, in 1821-22.But lo! the Bridegroom with no further warning
Came for her at the dawning of the day.
She heard His voice, and smiled, and passed away
Without a struggle.

         Leaning o'er her bed
To give her greeting, I found but her clay,
And Vivian bowed beside it.

         And I said,
"Dear friend! my soul shall treasure thy request,
And when the night of fever and unrest
Melts in the morning of Eternity,
Like a freed bird, then I will come to thee.

"I will come to thee in the morning, sweet!
I have been true; and soul with soul shall meet
Before God's throne, and shall not be afraid.
Thou gav'st me trust, and it was not betrayed.

"I will come to thee in the morning, dear!
The night is dark.  I do not know how near
The morn may be of that Eternal Day;
I can but keep my faithful watch and pray.

"I will come to thee in the morning, love!
Wait for me on the Eternal Heights above.
The way is troubled where my feet must climb,
Ere I shall tread the mountain-top sublime.

Indeed, I am certain it will be so, and
if you consent--"
"Is it not the case that you talked of this matter
with one Glass, an English ex-corporal, who sets up to be Governor
of Tristan d'Acunha?"

inquired the captain, without allowing me
to finish my sentence.After the gloom and darkness of the night
I will come to thee with the morning light."