I hear of carpets, curtains, and pictures in the existing nurseries.  
They must be palaces compared with our great bare attic, where 
nothing was allowed that could gather dust.  One bit of drugget by 
the fireside, where stood a round table at which the maids talked 
and darned stockings, was all that hid the bare boards; the walls 
were as plain as those of a workhouse, and when the London sun did 
shine, it glared into my eyes through the great unshaded windows.  
There was a deal table for the meals (and very plain meals they 
were), and two or three big presses painted white for our clothes, 
and one cupboard for our toys.  I must say that Gooch was strictly 
just, and never permitted little Emily, nor Griff--though he was 
very decidedly the favourite,--to bear off my beloved woolly dog to 
be stabled in the houses of wooden bricks which the two were 
continually constructing for their menagerie of maimed animals.

Griff was deservedly the favourite with every one who was not, like 
our parents, conscientiously bent on impartiality.  He was so bright 
and winning, he had such curly tight-rolled hair with a tinge of 
auburn, such merry bold blue eyes, such glowing dimpled cheeks, such 
a joyous smile all over his face, and such a ringing laugh; he was 
so strong, brave, and sturdy, that he was a boy to be proud of, and 
a perfect king in his own way, making every one do as he pleased.  
All the maids, and Peter the footman, were his slaves, every one 
except nurse and mamma, and it was only by a strong effort of 
principle that they resisted him; while he dragged Clarence about as 
his devoted though not always happy follower.

Alas! for Clarence!  Courage was not in him.  The fearless infant 
boy chiefly dwells in conventional fiction, and valour seldom comes 
before strength.  Moreover, I have come to the opinion that though 
no one thought of it at the time, his nerves must have had a 
terrible and lasting shock at the accident and at the sight of my 
crushed and deathly condition, which occupied every one too much for 
them to think of soothing or shielding him.  At any rate, fear was 
the misery of his life.  Darkness was his horror.  He would scream 
till he brought in some one, though he knew it would be only to 
scold or slap him.  The housemaid's closet on the stairs was to him 
an abode of wolves.  Mrs. Gatty's tale of The Tiger in the Coal-box 
is a transcript of his feelings, except that no one took the trouble 
to reassure him; something undefined and horrible was thought to wag 
in the case of the eight-day clock; and he could not bear to open 
the play cupboard lest 'something' should jump out on him.  The 
first time he was taken to the Zoological Gardens, the monkeys so 
terrified him that a bystander insisted on Gooch's carrying him away 
lest he should go into fits, though Griffith was shouting with 
ecstasy, and could hardly forgive the curtailment of his enjoyment.

Clarence used to aver that he really did see 'things' in the dark, 
but as he only shuddered and sobbed instead of describing them, he 
was punished for 'telling fibs,' though the housemaid used to speak 
under her breath of his being a 'Sunday child.'  And after long 
penance, tied to his stool in the corner, he would creep up to me 
and whisper, 'But, Eddy, I really did!'

However, it was only too well established in the nursery that 
Clarence's veracity was on a par with his courage.  When taxed with 
any misdemeanour, he used to look round scared and bewildered, and 
utter a flat demur.  One scene in particular comes before me.  Each
specimen is specifically referred to in the catalogue, accompanied
with some wood-cut illustrations of such specimens as possess the
greatest significance.

Mr. Frank H. Cushing has presented a full account of the history,
traditions, and uses of these images or gods, in a paper entitled
"Zuñi Fetiches," in the Second Annual Report of the Bureau for 1882,
to which the reader is referred.

In these collections, as in those of the two previous seasons, articles
of clay predominate. They consist of Tinajas, or large, decorated,
vase-shaped water-vessels.

These vary in capacity from one to six gallons, and are the
principal vessels used for holding and storing water for domestic
purposes.
It might 
have done him good if there had been sufficient encouragement to him 
to make him try to win a new character, but it only added a fresh 
terror to his mind; and nurse grew fond of manifesting her 
incredulity of his assertions by always referring to Griff or to me, 
or even to little Emily.  What was worse, she used to point him out 
to her congeners in the Square or the Park as 'such a false child.'

He was a very pretty little fellow, with a delicately rosy face, 
wistful blue eyes, and soft, light, wavy hair, and perhaps Gooch was 
jealous of his attracting more notice than Griffith, and thought he 
posed for admiration, for she used to tell people that no one could 
guess what a child he was for slyness; so that he could not bear 
going out with her, and sometimes bemoaned himself to me.

There must be a good deal of sneaking in the undeveloped nature, for 
in those days I was ashamed of my preference for Clarence, the 
naughty one.  But there was no helping it, he was so much more 
gentle than Griff, and would always give up any sport that 
incommoded me, instead of calling me a stupid little ape, and 
becoming more boisterous after the fashion of Griff.  Moreover, he 
fetched and carried for me unweariedly, and would play at 
spillekins, help to put up puzzles, and enact little dramas with our 
wooden animals, such as Griff scorned as only fit for babies.  Even 
nurse allowed Clarence's merits towards me and little Emily, but 
always with the sigh:  'If he was but as good in other respects, but 
them quiet ones is always sly.'

Good Nurse Gooch!  We all owe much to her staunch fidelity, strong 
discipline, and unselfish devotion, but nature had not fitted her to 
deal with a timid, sensitive child, of highly nervous temperament.  
Indeed, persons of far more insight might have been perplexed by the 
fact that Clarence was exemplary at church and prayers, family and 
private,--whenever Griff would let him, that is to say,--and would 
add private petitions of his own, sometimes of a startling nature.  
He never scandalised the nursery, like Griff, by unseemly pranks on 
Sundays, nor by innovations in the habits of Noah's ark, but was as 
much shocked as nurse when the lion was made to devour the elephant, 
or the lion and wolf fought in an embrace fatal to their legs.  
Bible stories and Watt's hymns were more to Clarence than even to 
me, and he used to ask questions for which Gooch's theology was 
quite insufficient, and which brought the invariable answers, 'Now, 
Master Clarry, I never did!  Little boys should not ask such 
questions!'  'What's the use of your pretending, sir!  It's all 
falseness, that's what it is!  I hates hypercriting!'  'Don't 
worrit, Master Clarence; you are a very naughty boy to say such 
things.  I shall put you in the corner!'

Even nurse was scared one night when Clarence had a frightful 
screaming fit, declaring that he saw 'her--her--all white,' and even 
while being slapped reiterated, 'HER, Lucy!'

Lucy was a kind elder girl in the Square gardens, a protector of 
little timid ones.  She was known to be at that time very ill with 
measles, and in fact died that very night.  Both my brothers 
sickened the next day, and Emily and I soon followed their example, 
but no one had it badly except Clarence, who had high fever, and 
very much delirium each night, talking to people whom he thought he 
saw, so as to make nurse regret her severity on the vision of Lucy.


CHAPTER II--SCHOOLROOM DAYS


'In the loom of life-cloth pleasure,
   Ere our childish days be told,
With the warp and woof enwoven,
   Glitters like a thread of gold.'

JEAN INGELOW.

Looking back, I think my mother was the leading spirit in our 
household, though she never for a moment suspected it.  Indeed, the 
chess queen must be the most active on the home board, and one of 
the objects of her life was to give her husband a restful evening 
when he came home to the six o'clock dinner.  She also had to make 
both ends meet on an income which would seem starvation at the 
present day; but she was strong, spirited, and managing, and equal 
to all her tasks till the long attendance upon me, and the 
consequent illness, forced her to spare herself--a little--a very 
little.

Previously she had been our only teacher, except that my father read 
a chapter of the Bible with us every morning before breakfast, and 
heard the Catechism on a Sunday.  Ceremonial throwing sticky or
boomerang.

69150. Wooden ornament carried in the dance.

69151-2. Ceremonial head-dresses. A circular rim of wood supports
semi-circular arched ribs, which cross each other, and from their
center rises a perpendicular wooden tablet, carved and painted.
69153. Head-dress, formed of four narrow slats of wood, neatly
hinged together with small thongs of skin; the outer slats are
longer than the two middle ones, thus leaving a square recess for
the head.Leicester's School, with the ghost story cut out.

Fairies and ghosts were prohibited as unwholesome, and not unwisely.  
The one would have been enervating to me, and the other would have 
been a definite addition to Clarence's stock of horrors.  Indeed, 
one story had been cut out of Crabbe's Tales, and another out of an 
Annual presented to Emily, but not before Griff had read the latter, 
and the version he related to us probably lost nothing in the 
telling; indeed, to this day I recollect the man, wont to slay the 
harmless cricket on the hearth, and in a storm at sea pursued by a 
gigantic cockroach and thrown overboard.  The night after hearing 
this choice legend Clarence was found crouching beside me in bed for 
fear of the cockroach.  I am afraid the vengeance was more than 
proportioned to the offence!

Even during my illness that brave mother struggled to teach my 
brothers' daily lessons, and my father heard them a short bit of 
Latin grammar at his breakfast (five was thought in those days to be 
the fit age to begin it, and fathers the fit teachers thereof).  And 
he continued to give this morning lesson when, on our return from 
airing at Ramsgate after our recovery from the measles, my mother 
found she must submit to transfer us to a daily governess.

Old Miss Newton's attainments could not have been great, for her 
answers to my inquiries were decidedly funny, and prefaced sotto 
voce with, 'What a child it is!'  But she was a good kindly lady, 
who had the faculty of teaching, and of forestalling rebellion; and 
her little thin corkscrew curls, touched with gray, her pale eyes, 
prim black silk apron, and sandalled shoes, rise before me full of 
happy associations of tender kindness and patience.  Hunter God of
the North.

2. Amulet, of white spar, with arrow head "above heart." Nicely
carved, with ears and with small pieces of turquoise inserted for
eyes; designated by Mr. Cushing as Prey God of the Hunt. Sä-ni-a-k'ia-kwe
a-wen hâk-ti-täsh-a-na wém-me.

3.And when habit was too strong, and he had denied the 
ink spot on the atlas, she persuasively wiled out a confession not 
only to her but to mamma, who hailed the avowal as the beginning of 
better things, and kissed instead of punishing.

