Then to King Pharaoh Joseph went and said,
My father and his sons, with all they had
In their own country, are come down to me,
And in the land of Goshen now they be.
Five of his brethren also with him went,
Whom he unto King Pharaoh did present,
And Pharaoh asked them about their trade,
And they unto the king reply'd and said:
We and our fathers while we were at home
Were shepherds all, and now behold, we come
With all our flocks, to get some pasture here,
For in our land the famine is severe.
We therefore pray thee to appoint a portion
Unto thy servants in the land of Goshen.
And Pharaoh said to Joseph, I empow'r thee
To use thy pleasure, Goshen is before thee;
Settle thy father and thy brethren there,
And if among them active men there are,
Commit my cattle to their special care.
And Joseph brought his aged father in
Before the king, and Jacob blessed him.
And Pharaoh asking him about his age,
He said, The years of my life's pilgrimage
Are but an hundred thirty, very few
And evil, nor have I attain'd unto
The years of my forefathers longer age,
Which they pass'd thro' in this their pilgrimage.
And Jacob bless'd the king again, and then
Out of his presence he return'd again.
And Joseph plac'd his father and relations
In Egypt, and appointed them possessions
In the best of the land, ev'n in the land
Of Rameses, according to the king's command:
And there he nourished them with fit supplies
Of bread, according to their families.
And now the people having spent their store,
And famine still increasing more and more,
Egypt and Canaan too, for want of bread,
Were sore distress'd and almost famished.
And Joseph took the money they did bring
To buy their corn, and kept it for the king.
Wherefore the people came to represent
Their case to him, both corn and coin being spent.
And Joseph said, If money be grown scant,
Bring me your cattle and ye shall not want.
And they brought horses, asses, and their flocks
And herds of cattle, ev'n all their stocks,
And gave to Joseph in exchange for bread,
For which the people he for that year fed:
And when that year was past, the second year
They came again, and said, We can't forbear
To let thee know our want, my lord doth know
Thou hast our money and our cattle too,
And there is nothing left (so hard's our fate)
But only each man's person and estate:
If thou wilt give us bread, into thy hands
Will we resign our persons and our lands:
And be the servants of the king for ever.
From death therefore our hungry souls deliver,
And take some pity on our wretched state,
Lest we die, and the land be desolate.
And the Egyptians sold each man his field,
Because the famine over them prevail'd;
And all their lands became the king's possession,
And Joseph placed them at his own discretion.
But the land of the priests he purchased not,
For Pharaoh had assigned to them their lot:
And they received their food from Pharaoh's hands,
Wherefore they had no need to sell their lands.
And Joseph said unto them, Now behold,
You and your lands are unto Pharaoh sold:
Lo! here is seed to sow in each man's field,
And when the land its ripe increase shall yield,
A fifth part shall belong unto the crown,
And the other four parts shall be your own,
For seed to sow your lands, and for supplies
Of food convenient for your families.
And they said; Thou hast sav'd our lives, my lord,
Thy gracious favour unto us afford,
And we will do according to thy word.
And Joseph made it a decree, to stand
Ev'n to this day throughout th' Egyptian land;
That Pharaoh should have a fifth part, except
The priests' lands, which unto themselves they kept.
And in the land of Egypt ev'n in Goshen,
Did Isr'el dwell, and therein had possession;
And grew and multiply'd exceeding fast.
And Jacob liv'd till seventeen years were past:
So that the sum of Jacob's age appears
To be an hundred forty-seven years.
And when the time approach'd that he must die,
He called Joseph, unto whom he said, If I
Have now found favour in thy sight, I pray,
Swear thou unto me that thou wilt not lay
My bones in Egypt, for I fain would lie
Among my ancestors when e'er I die,
And not be bury'd here; therefore fulfil
This my desire; and he reply'd, I will:
And he said, Swear unto me, which he did:
Then Jacob bow'd himself upon his bed.

CHAP. XLVIII.

And now when Joseph heard his father lay
Even at the point of death he hastes away
To visit him, and took along with him
His son Manasseh, and's son Ephraim.
Whereof when Jacob heard he strength'ned
Himself, and rose and sat upon the bed:
And thus to Joseph said, Lo! God appeared
To me at Luz in Canaan, and declared,
That he would bless, and make me a great nation,
And give my seed that land for a possession:
And Jacob said, Behold, these sons of thine
As Reuben and as Simeon shall be mine;
And all the rest that shall be born to thee
Hereafter, shall be thine, and they shall be
Call'd by the name of their own family.
Behold thy mother died upon the way,
When I from Padan came, near Ephratah,
The which is in the land of Canaan, where,
To wit, in Bethlem, did I bury her.
And Jacob seeing Joseph's sons were there,
He asked of him who the children were.
And Joseph said, My father, lo! these be
The sons, God in this place hath given me.
Then Jacob said, I pray thee bring them nigh
To me, and I will bless them e'er I die.
(Now Jacob's eyes, by reason of age, were dim)
And Joseph brought his sons near unto him,
And Jacob kissed and embraced them:
And said, I never thought to see thy face,
And lo! the Lord hath shewn me of thy race.
And Joseph from between his knees brought forth
His sons, and bow'd himself even to the earth:
And in his right hand held up Ephraim,
Towards his father's left hand guiding him
And in his left hand to his father's right,
He held his son Manasseh opposite.
And Isra'l stretching our his right hand, laid
It on the youngest, namely Ephraim's head:
And laid his left hand wittingly upon
Manasseh's head, although the eldest son.
And Jacob blessed Joseph, saying, The God
Of heaven, in whose paths my fathers trod,
Who all my life hath nourish'd me, even he
Who from all evil hath redeemed me,
Bless both the lads, and let them bear my name,
And the name of my fathers Abraham
And Isaac, and let them multiply
In the midst of the earth exceedingly.
And Joseph seeing his father's right hand laid
On Ephraim's head, he was displeas'd, and said,
Not so, my father, lay this hand upon
Manasseh's head, for he's the eldest son:
And therewithal attempted to have laid
His father's right hand on Manasseh's head
But he refus'd and said, I know't my son,
I know't full well, he also shall become
A people, and be mighty: But indeed
His younger brother shall him far exceed,
And many nations shall come from his seed.
Thus Jacob blessed them, and said, In thee
Shall Isra'l bless, and say, God make thee be
Like Ephraim and Manasseh. Thus did he
Prefer the youngest to the first degree.
And Isra'l said to Joseph, Lo! I die,
But God shall visit you, and certainly
Shall bring you back unto your father's land.
And thou shalt have a portion from my hand,
Above thy brethren, which with sword and bow
I took from th' Amorite, my deadly foe.

CHAP. XLIX.

And Jacob called all his sons together,
And said, Ye sons of Jacob come you hither:
And hearken what your aged father says,
Who tells you what shall be in the last days.
Reuben my first born, of my strength the flow'rs,
The excellency of dignity and power:
Unstable as water, be for ever vile,
Because thou did thy father's bed defile.
Simeon and Levi 're brethren. Instruments
Of cruelty lodged in their tents.
Come not, my soul, their secret councils nigh,
My honour, with them have no unity:
For in their wrath they caused a man to fall,
And in their self-will digged down a wall.
Curs'd be their anger, fierce, yea cursed be
Their wrath, for it was full of cruelty.
In Jacob therefore let their seed be spread,
And every where in Israel scattered.
Judah shall have his brethren's praise, and they
Shall bow before him; he his foes shall slay.
Judah's a lion's whelp return'd from prey,
He stoop'd, he couch'd, and as a lion lay;
As an old lion, who shall dare molest,
Or rouse him up, when he lies down to rest.
The sceptre shall from Judah never start,
Nor a lawgiver from his feet depart;
Until the blessed Shiloh come, to whom
The scatter'd people shall from all parts come:
Binding his foal unto the choicest vine,
He wash'd his garments, all of them in wine:
His eyes shall with the blood of th' grapes look red,
And milky whiteness shall his teeth o'erspread.
Lo! Zabulon shall dwell upon the sea,
And heaven for the ship's security,
And unto Zidon shall his border be.
And Issachar is a strong ass between
Two burdens crouching, who when he had seen
That rest was pleasant, and the land was good,
His servile neck unto the yoke he bow'd.
Dan as a judge shall over Isra'l sway,
He shall be as a serpent in the way,
To bite the horse, and cast the rider down.
O God! I have look'd for thy salvation.
Gad by a troop shall be o'ercome, but he
Shall at the last obtain the victory.
The bread of Ashur shall be fat indeed,
And royal dainties shall from his proceed.
Like to a hind let loose is Naphtali,
He speaketh all his words acceptably.
Joseph's a fruitful bough, whose branches tall
Grow by a well, and over-top the wall:
By reason of hatred which the archers bore,
They shot at him and griev'd him very sore,
But Joseph's bow in its full strength abode
And by the arm of Jacob's mighty God,
He was indu'd with strength, from whence alone
Is Isra'l's shepherd, and chief corner-stone:
Ev'n by my father's God, who shall assist
Thee, by th' Almighty God shalt thou be blest,
With blessings from above, and from below,
With blessings of the breast, and womb also.
Thy father's blessings have prevail'd beyond
My ancestors. Unto the utmost bound
Of the perpetual hills, yea let them rest
On Joseph's head, and let him be possest
Of all, who was divided from the rest.
Young Benjamin shall wolf-like take his prey,
And part by night what he hath took by day.
All these are the ten tribes of Israel,
And thus their father did their fate foretell:
And blessed every one of them apart,
According to their personal desert.
Moreover he gave them a charge and said,
Lo! I shall die, but let my bones be laid
Among my ancestors in Canaan, where
Of Ephron, Abraham bought a sepulchre,
Together with a field, to be a place
Of burial, for him and all his race.
(There Abraham and Sarah lie, and there
They Isaac and Rebecca did inter,
And there when Leah died I buried her.)
The field was purchas'd of the sons of Heth.
Thus having said, resigning up his breath
To him that gave 't, his feet into the bed
He drew, and so was number'd to the dead.

CHAP. L.

And Joseph fell upon his father's face,
And did with tears his lifeless lips embrace:
And sends for his physicians and advises
Them to embalm his father's corpse with spices.
And they did so, and forty days did pass.
(For so the manner of embalming was)
And the Egyptians mourned for the space
Of three score and ten days, which being expired
He spake to Pharaoh's servants and desired,
That they would please to speak in Pharaoh's ear,
And tell him that my father made me swear,
That I should bury him in Canaan, where
He hath provided his own sepulchre.
I therefore pray thee that I may obtain
Thy leave, and I will soon return again.
And Pharaoh said, Since thou hast sworn, fulfil
Thy oath, according to thy father's will.
And Joseph went up to accompany
His father's corpse with great solemnity.
And with him went up Pharaoh's servants, and
The prime nobility of all the land,
And Joseph's household, and his brethren all,
Only their flocks, and herds, and children small
Were left behind. Moreover there went up
Chariots and horsemen, ev'n a mighty troop.
And they came up to Atad's threshing floor
Beyond the river Jordan, where full sore
They mourned for him till seven days were past,
So long their mourning in that place did last.
Which when the Canaanites beheld they said,
Surely some eminent Egyptian's dead.
Wherefore they call'd it Abel-mizraim.[12]
Thus did his sons as he commanded them.
For to the land of Canaan they convey'd
Him, and in Machpelah near Mamre, laid
His body in the cave which Ephron sold
To Abraham, for him and his to hold.
And thus when Joseph fully had perform'd
His father's will, to Egypt he return'd,
Together with his brethren, and with all
Them that came with him to the funeral.
Now Joseph's brethren being well aware
That they were fatherless, began to fear
That he would hate them, and requite them all
The evil they had treated him withal.
Wherefore to him they sent a messenger
And said, Behold our father did declare
Before he died, that we should come and say,
Forgive thy brethren's trespasses, I pray;
And their misdeeds, for they have been unkind.
And now we humbly pray thee be inclin'd
To pardon our offences, and the rather
For that we serve the God e'en of thy father.
And Joseph wept when they thus spake, and they
Came nearer, and before him prostrate lay,
And said, We are thy servants all this day.
And Joseph bad them not to be afraid,
For in the place of God am I he said:
For though you meant me ill, God meant it good,
And sent me hither to provide you food.
Now therefore trouble not yourselves, for I
Will nourish you, and all your family.
After this manner did he satisfy,
And treat them with extreme civility.
And Joseph and his father's house remain'd
In Egypt, and he liv'd till he attain'd
An hundred and ten years, and liv'd to see
Of Ephraim's children to the third degree.
And Macher's children of Manasseh's tribe
Were also born some time before he died.
Then Joseph said, My brethren, lo! I die,
But God will visit you undoubtedly;
And to that land again whereof he spake
Unto our ancestors, will bring you back.
And Joseph also made his brethren swear,
That they would not inter his body there.
And thus he ended his life's pilgrimage,
Being an hundred and ten years of age;
And was embalm'd, and in a coffin laid,
In Egypt, till he could be thence convey'd.


THE GENERAL EPISTLE OF JAMES

CHAP. I.

Unto the twelve tribes scattered abroad,
James, an apostle of the living God,
And of the Lord Christ Jesus, salutation.
My brethren, when you fall into temptation
Of divers kinds, rejoice, as men that know
From trial of your faith doth patience flow.
But let your patience have its full effect,
That you may be entire, without defect.
If any of you lack wisdom, let him cry
To God, and he will give it lib'rally,
And not upbraid. But let him ask in faith,
Not wavering, for he that wavereth,
Unto a wave o' th' sea I will compare,
Driv'n with the wind and tossed here and there.
For let not such a man himself deceive,
To think that he shall from the Lord receive.
A double-minded man most surely lacketh
Stability in all he undertaketh.
Let ev'ry brother of a low degree
Rejoice in that he is advanc'd, but he
That's rich in being made low, for he shall pass
Away, as doth the flow'r of the grass.
For as the grass, soon as the sun doth rise,
Is scorch'd by reason of the heat, and dies;
Its flow'r fades, and it retains no more
The beauteous comeliness it had before,
So fades the rich man, maugre all his store.
The man is blest that doth endure temptation
For when he's try'd, the crown of God's salvation,
The which the Lord hath promised to give
To them that love him, that man shall receive.
Let no man be possest with a persuasion,
To say, when he falls under a temptation,
That God's the cause; for with no evil can
God be tempted, nor tempts he any man.
But every man is tempted when he's drawn
Away, and by his lusts prevail'd upon;
Then when lust hath conceiv'd, it ushereth
In sin, and sin when finished brings death.
Err not, my brethren, whom I dearly love,
Each good and perfect gift is from above,
Down from th' original of lights descending,
With whom's no change, nor shadow thereto tending,
According to his own good pleasure, he
Begat us with the word of truth, that we
Should as the first fruits of his creatures be.
Wherefore, beloved brethren, I entreat
You to be swift to hear, and slow to speak,
And slow to wrath, for wrath cannot incline
The sons of men to righteousness divine.
Wherefore avoiding ev'ry filthiness,
And superfluity of naughtiness:
Receive with meekness the engrafted word,
Which can salvation to your souls afford.
But be ye doers of the word each one,
And not deceive yourselves to hear alone;
For he that hears the word and doth it not,
Is like unto a man that hath forgot
What kind of man he was, tho' in a glass
He just before beheld his nat'ral face.
But whoso minds the law of liberty
In its perfection, and continually
Abides therein, forgets not what he's heard,
But doth the work and therein hath reward.
If any man among you seem to be
Religious, he deceives himself if he
Doth not his tongue as with a bit restrain;
And all that man's religion is but vain.
Religion, pure and undefil'd, which is
Acceptable before the Lord, is this:
To visit widows and the fatherless,
In time of their affliction or distress;
And so to regulate his conversation,
As to be spotless in his generation.

CHAP. II.

Faith of the Lord of glory, Jesus Christ,
Doth with respect of persons not consist;
For if, my brethren, when there shall come in
To your assembly one with a gold ring,
In goodly clothes, and there shall also be
Another man that's meanly cloth'd, and ye
Shall have respect to him in rich attire,
And say unto him, come thou, sit up higher;
And bid the poor man stand or sit below,
Are ye not partial then, and plainly show,
That you do judge amiss in what you do?
Hearken, my brethren, hath not God elected
The poor, who by this world have been rejected;
Yet rich in faith, and of that kingdom heirs,
Which God will give his foll'wers to be theirs?
But you, my brethren, do the poor despise.
Do not the rich men o'er you tyrannise;
And hale ye to their courts; that worthy name
By which you're call'd do not they blaspheme?
Then if ye do the royal law fulfil,
To love thy neighbour as thyself, 'tis well,
According to the scripture; but if ye
Shall have respect to persons, ye shall be
Guilty of sin, and by the law condemn'd,
As such who have its righteousness contemn'd.
For he that shall but in one point offend,
Breaks the whole law, whate'er he may pretend.
For he that doth forbid adultery,
Forbids likewise all acts of cruelty.
Now tho' thou be not an adulterer,
Yet if thou kill, thou shalt thy judgment bear.
So speak and do as those men that shall be
Judg'd by the perfect law of liberty:
For he shall judgment without mercy know;
That to his neighbour doth no mercy show;
And mercy triumphs against judgment too.
Brethren what profit is't if a man saith
That he hath faith, and hath not works; can faith
Save him? If any of the brotherhood
Be destitute of clothes or daily food,
And one of you shall say, Depart in peace,
Be warned or be ye fill'd ne'ertheless.
Ye do not furnish them with what they need,
Wat boots it? Thus faith without works is dead.
Yea may a man say, thou dost faith profess,
And I good works, to me thy faith express
Without thy works, and I will plainly show
My faith unto thee by the works I do.
Thou dost believe there is one God, 'tis true,
The devils do believe and tremble too.
But wilt thou know, vain man, that faith is dead,
Which with good works is not accompany'd.
Was not our father Abraham justify'd
By works, and by the same his faith was try'd;
When he his Isaac to the altar brought;
Seest thou how with his works his faith then wrought?
And with his works he perfected his faith?
And so the scripture was fulfill'd, which saith,
Abraham believed God, and 'twas imputed
For righteousness, and he God's friend reputed.
Thus may you see, that by works ev'ry one
Is justify'd, and not by faith alone.
Thus was the harlot Rahab justify'd
By works, when she the messengers did hide,
And by another way their feet did guide.
For as the body's dead without the spirit,
So aith without works never can inherit.

CHAP. III.

Affect not, brethren, superiority,
As knowing that we shall receive thereby
The greater condemnation in the end:
For we in many things do all offend.
Who doth not with his tongue offend, he can
Guide his whole body, he's a perfect man.
Behold, in horses' mouths we bridles put,
To rule and turn their bodies quite about.
Behold likewise the ships, which tho' they be
Of mighty bulk, and thro' the raging sea
Are driv'n by the strength of winds, yet they
By a small helm the pilot's will obey.
Ev'n so the tongue of man, which tho' it be
But a small member, in a high degree
It boasts of things. Behold, we may remark
How great a matter's kindled by a spark.
The tongue's a fire, a world of ill, which plac'd
Among the members, often has disgrac'd
All the whole body, firing the whole frame
Of nature, and is kindl'd by hell flame.
All kind of beasts and birds that can be nam'd,
Serpents and fishes, are and have been tam'd
By mankind; but the tongue can no man tame,
A stubborn evil full of deadly bane.
We therewith God the Father bless, and we
Therewith curse men made like the Deity:
Blessing and cursing from the same mouth flow,
These things, my brethren, ought not to be so.
Is any fountain of so strange a nature,
At once to send forth sweet and bitter water?
Can olives, brethren, on a fig-tree grow,
Or figs on vines? no more can water flow
From the same fountain sweet and bitter too.
He that's endu'd with wisdom and discretion
Amongst you, let that may by the profession
Of meekness, wisely give a demonstration,
Of all his works, from a good conversation.
But if your hearts are full of bitterness
And strife, boast not, nor do the truth profess.
This wisdom is not from above descending,
But earthly, sensual, and to evil tending:
For where there's strife and envying there's confusion
And ev'ry evil work in the conclusion.
But the true wisdom that is from above,
Is, in the first place, pure, then full of love,
Then gentle and entreated easily,
Next merciful, without partiality,
Full of good fruits, without hypocrisy.
And what is more, the fruits of righteousness
Is sown in peace, of them that do make peace.

CHAP. IV.

From whence come wars and fights, come they not hence,
Ev'n from th' inordinate concupiscence
That in your members prompts to variance?
You lust and have not, kill and desire to have;
But ne'ertheless obtain not what you crave.
With war and fighting ye contend, yet have not
The things which you desire, because you crave not;
Ye crave but don't receive, the reason's just,
Ye crave amiss to spend it on your lust.
You that live in adultery, know not ye
The friendship of the world is enmity
With God? He is God's enemy therefore
That doth the friendship of the world adore.
Do ye think that th' scripture saith in vain,
The spirit that lusts to hate, doth in you reign?
But he bestows more grace, wherefore he says,
God scorns the proud, but doth the humble raise.
Unto the Lord therefore submissive be,
Resist the devil and he'll from you flee.
Draw nigh to God, and he'll to you draw nigh.
Make clean your hands you sinners, purify
Your hearts you double-minded, weep and mourn,
And be afflicted, let your laughter turn
To sorrow, and your joy to sadness: stoop
Before the Lord, and he will lift you up.
My brethren, speak not evil of each other;
He that doth judge and speak ill of his brother,
Doth judge and speak ill of the law; therefore
If thou dost judge the law, thou art no more
A doer of the same, but dost assume
The judgment-seat, and art thyself become
A judge thereof. There is but one law-giver,
That's able to destroy and to deliver;
Who then art thou that dost condemn thy neighbour?
Go to now, you that say, to such a place
To-morrow will we go, and for the space
Of one whole year, or so, will there remain,
And buy and sell, and get great store of gain:
Whereas ye know not what a day may do.
For what's the life of man? Ev'n like unto
A vapour, which, tho' for a while it may
Appear, it quickly vanisheth away.
So that ye ought to say, If God permit
Us life and health, we will accomplish it.
But now ye glory in your confidence,
Such glorying is of evil consequence.
He therefore that doth know, and doth not act
The thing that's good, doth guilt thereby contract.

CHAP. V.[13]

Go to now, O ye rich men, howl and cry,
Because of your approaching misery:
Your riches are corrupted, and the moths
Have ent'red, and have eaten up your clothes.
Your gold and silver's canker'd, and the rust
Thereof, shall be an evidence that's just
Against you, and like fire your flesh devour:
Against the last days ye have heap'd up store.
The hire of them that reaped down your field,
The which by you is wrongfully withheld.
Cries, and the voice thereof hath reach'd the ears
Ev'n of the God of sabbath, and he hears.
Your lives in pleasure ye on earth have led,
And as in days of slaughter nourished
Your wanton hearts, and have condemn'd and slain
The just, and he doth not resist again.
Be patient therefore, brethren, ev'n unto
The coming of the Lord: behold, ev'n so
The husbandman expecteth patiently
The precious increase of the earth to see,
With patience waiting till he doth obtain
The showers of early and of latter rain.
So be ye patient, fixing stedfastly
Your hearts, for the coming of the Lord draws nigh.
Grieve not each other, brethren, lest ye bear
The condemnation;[14] lo! the judge stands near.
The prophets, brethren, who all heretofore
In the name of the Lord their witness bore,
Take for examples in their sufferings
And patience: they that endure such things,
Ye know are counted blest. Have ye not read
Of Job, how patiently he suffered?
Have ye not seen in him what was God's end;
How he doth pity and great love extend?
My brethren, but above all things forbear,
By heav'n or earth, or otherwise to swear;
But let your yea be yea, your nay be nay,
Lest ye become reprovable I say.
Let him sing psalms that's merry; he that's griev'd,
Let him by prayer seek to be reliev'd.
If any of you by sickness be distress'd,
Let him the elders of the church request
That they would come and pray for him a while;
Anointing him in the Lord's name with oil;
So shall the pray'r that is of faith restore
The sick, and God shall raise him as before.
And all th' offences which he hath committed
Shall be forgiv'n, and he shall be acquitted.
Confess your faults each one unto his brother,
And put up supplications for each other,
That so you may be heal'd; the fervency
Of just men's prayers prevails effectually.
Elias was a man as frail as we are,
And he was earnest with the Lord in pray'r,
That there might be no rain, and for the space
Of three years and six months no rain there was:
And afterward, when he again made suit,
The heav'n gave rain, the earth brought forth her fruit.
If any one shall from the truth desert,
And one, my brethren, shall that man convert;
Let him be sure, that he that doth recall
The poor backsliding sinner from his fall,
Shall save a soul from death, and certainly
Shall hide a multitude of sins thereby.


FOOTNOTES:

1. Grace Abounding, No. 3.

2. George Herbert, in that admirable poem called 'The Temple,'
introduces his reader tot he church porch thus:--


'Thou, whose sweet youth and early hopes enhance
Thy rate and price, and mark thee for a treasure;
Hearken unto a verser, who may chance
Rhyme thee to good, and make a bait of pleasure.
A verse may find him, who a sermon flies,
And turn delight into a sacrifice.'


3. 'An husband,' c. i. 12.

4. 'Set abroach,' in a posture to run out, or yield the liquor
contained.--Ed.

5. 'An ephah,' a measure containing three pecks and three
pints.--Calmet.

6. Similar to Christian's exclamation, when calling to Faithful
to stop and bear him company. See Pilgrim's Progress, Part 1st.

7. These lines, and those on the next page, 'The eye's the light
o' th' body,' remind one of Bunyan's style in his Apology for
the Pilgrim's Progress,--

'Dost thou love picking meat? Or would'st thou see A man i' th'
clouds, and hear him speak to thee?'--Ed.

8. A cover, a booth, bower, or hut made of the boughs of trees.--Ed.

9. 'He owes,' a contraction for 'he owneth.'--Ed.

10. The word translated 'divine,' means to eye subtly, to search, to
try. Verse 5 may be rendered, 'And he will search deeply for it';
and in verse 15, 'Know ye not that a man like me would search deeply,'
alluding to the certainty of detection, but not by divination.--Ed.

11. 'So naught,' so corrupt, bad, or worthless.--Ed.

12. The mourning of Egypt.--Ed.

13. By a typographical error, in the original edition, it is
misprinted CHAP. XLVI.

14. How admirably does Bunyan enlarge upon this in his 'Peaceable
principles yet true.'

***

An Exposition on the FIRST TEN CHAPTERS OF GENESIS, And Part of
the Eleventh

An unfinished commentary on the Bible, found among the author's
papers after his death, in his own handwriting; and published in
1691, by Charles Doe, in a folio volume of the works of John Bunyan.

ADVERTISEMENT BY THE EDITOR

Being in company with an enlightened society of Protestant dissenters
of the Baptist denomination, I observed to a doctor of divinity,
who was advancing towards his seventieth year, that my time had
been delightfully engaged with John Bunyan's commentary on Genesis.
"What," said the D.D., with some appearance of incredulity, "Bunyan
a commentator--upon Genesis!! Impossible! Well, I never heard of
that work of the good Bunyan before. Why, where is it to be found?"
Yes, it is true that he has commented on that portion of sacred
scripture, containing the cosmogony of creation--the fall of man--the
first murder--the deluge--and other facts which have puzzled the
most learned men of every age; and he has proved to be more learned
than all others in his spiritual perceptions. He graduated at a
higher university--a university unshackled by human laws, conventional
feelings, and preconceived opinions. His intense study of the
Bible, guided by the teaching of the Holy Spirit, enabled him to
throw a new and beautiful light upon objects which are otherwise
obscure. Oh! that young ministers, while attaining valuable
book learning, may see the necessity of taking a high degree in,
and of never forgetting this Bible university! Reader, is it not
surprizing, that such a treatise should have remained comparatively
hidden for more than one hundred and fifty years. It has been
reprinted in many editions of Bunyan's works: but in all, except
the first, with the omission of the scripture references; and with
errors of so serious a character as if it was not intended to be
read. Even in printing the text of Genesis 7:7 Noah's three sons
do not enter the ark! although in 8:16 they are commanded to go
forth out of the ark. It is now presented to the public exactly
as the author left it, with the addition of notes, which it is
hoped will illustrate and not encumber the text.

This exposition is evidently the result of long and earnest study
of the holy scriptures. It is the history of the creation and of
the flood explained and spiritualized, and had it been originally
published in that form and under a proper title, it would most probably
have become a very popular work. The author's qualifications for
writing this commentary were exclusively limited to his knowledge
of holy writ. To book learning he makes no pretensions. He tells
us that in his youth "God put it into my parents hearts to put me
to school, to learn to read and write as other poor men's children;
though, to my shame, I confess, I did soon lose that little I
learnt even almost utterly." In after life, his time was occupied
in obtaining a livelihood by labour. When enduring severe mental
conflicts, and while he maintained his family by the work of
his hands, he was an acceptable pastor, and extensively useful
in itinerant labours of love in the villages round Bedford. His
humility, when he had used three common Latin words, prompted him
to say in the margin, "The Latine I borrow." And this unlettered
mechanic, when he might have improved himself in book wisdom, was
shut up within the walls of a prison for nearly thirteen years,
for obeying God, only solaced with his Bible and Fox's Book of
Martyrs. Yet he made discoveries relative to the creation, which
have been very recently again published by a learned philosopher,
who surprised and puzzled the world with his vestiges of creation.
Omitting the fanciful theories of the vestige philosopher, his
two great facts, proved by geological discoveries, are--

I. That when the world was created and set in motion, it was upon
principles by which it is impelled on to perfection--a state of
irresistible progress in improvement. This is the theory of Moses:
and Bunyan's exposition is, that all was finished, even to the
creation of all the souls which were to animate the human race,
and then God rested from his work.

II. The second geological discovery is that the world was far
advanced towards perfection producing all that was needful for
human life, before man was created. Upon this subject, Bunyan's
words are--"God shews his respect to this excellent creature, in
that he first provideth for him before he giveth him his being.
He bringeth him not to an empty house, but to one well furnished
with all kind of necessaries, having beautified the heaven and the
earth with glory, and all sorts of nourishment for his pleasure
and sustenance." But the most pious penetration is exhibited in
the spiritualizing of the creation and of the flood--every step
produces some type of that new creation, or regeneration, without
which no soul can be fitted for heaven. The dim twilight before the
natural sun was made, is typical of the state of those who believed
before Christ, the Sun of righteousness, arose and was manifested.
The fixed stars are emblems of the church, whose members all
shine, but with different degrees of lustre--sometimes eclipsed,
and at others mistaken for transient meteors. The whales and lions
are figures of great persecutors. But the most singular idea of all
is, that the moral degradation of human nature before the flood,
was occasioned by hypocrisy and persecution for conscience sake,
arising from governors interfering with matters of faith and
worship; in fact, that a STATE CHURCH occasioned the deluge--and
since that time has been the fruitful source of the miseries and
wretchedness that has afflicted mankind. His prediction of the
outpouring of the Spirit in the conversion of sinners, when the
church shall be no longer enthralled and persecuted by the state,
is remarkable. "O thou church of God in England, which art now
upon the waves of affliction and temptation, when thou comest out
of the furnace, if thou come out at the bidding of God, there shall
come out with thee, the fowl, the beast, and abundance of creeping
things. O Judah, he hath set an harvest for thee, when I returned
the captivity of my people." May this prediction soon be verified,
and the temporal government no longer vex and torment the church
by interfering with spiritual things.

It is remarkable that of the vast number of pious and enlightened
mechanics who adorn this country and feed its prosperity, so few
read the extraordinary writings of John Bunyan, a brother mechanic;
for with the exception of the Pilgrim's Progress and Holy War,
they are comparatively little known. His simple but illustrative
commentary--his book of Antichrist--his solemn and striking treatise
on the resurrection and final judgment--in fact, all his works,
are peculiarly calculated to inform the minds of the millions--to
reform bad habits, and, under the divine blessing, to purify the
soul with that heavenly wisdom which has in it the promise of the
life that now is as well as of that which is to come. It is also
a fact which ought to be generally known, that those preachers who
have edited Bunyan's works and have drunk into his spirit, have
been most eminently blessed in their ministry; Wilson, Whitefield,
and Ryland, can never be forgotten. If the thousands of godly
preachers who are scattered over our comparatively happy island
were to take Bunyan's mode of expounding scripture as their
pattern, it would increase their usefulness, and consequently
their happiness, in the great work of proclaiming and enforcing
the doctrines of the gospel.

GEO OFFOR.

AN EXPOSITION ON THE FIRST TEN CHAPTERS OF GENESIS, AND PART OF
THE ELEVENTH

In the first edition of this commentary, a series of numbers from
1 to 294 were placed in the margin, the use of which the editor
could not discover; probably the work was written on as many scraps
of paper, thus numbered to direct the printer. They are omitted,
lest, among divisions and subdivisions, they should puzzle the
reader.

CHAPTER II. Of God.

God is a Spirit (John 4:24), eternal (Deu 33:27), infinite (Rom
1:17-20), incomprehensible (Job 11:7), perfect, and unspeakably
glorious in his being, attributes, and works (Gen 17:51; Isa 6:3;
Exo 33:20). "The eternal God." "Do not I fill heaven and earth?
saith the Lord" (Jer 23:24). "Neither is there any creature that
is not manifest in his sight" (Heb 4:13; Pro 15:11).

In his attributes of wisdom, power, justice, holiness, mercy, &c.,
he is also inconceivably perfect and infinite, not to be comprehended
by things in earth, or things in heaven; known in the perfection
of his being only to himself. The seraphims cannot behold him,
but through a veil; no man can see him in his perfection and live.

His attributes, though apart laid down in the word of God, that
we, being weak, might the better conceive of his eternal power
and godhead; yet in him they are without division; one glorious
and eternal being. Again, though sometimes this, as of wisdom, or
that, as of justice and mercy, is most manifest in his works and
wonders before men; yet every such work is begun and completed by
the joint concurrence of all his attributes. No act of justice is
without his will, power, and wisdom; no act of mercy is against
his justice, holiness and purity. Besides, no man must conceive
of God, as if he consisted of these attributes, as our body doth
of its members, one standing here, another there, for the completing
personal subsistence. For though by the word we may distinguish,
yet may we not divide them, or presume to appoint them their
places in the Godhead. Wisdom is in his justice, holiness is in
his power, justice is in his mercy, holiness is in his love, power
is in his goodness (1 John 1:9, Num 14:17,18).

Wherefore, he is in all his attributes almighty, all-wise, holy and
powerful. Glory is in his wisdom, glory is in his holiness, glory
is in his mercy, justice, and strength; and "God is love" (1 John
4:16).[1]

II. Of the Persons or Subsistances in the Godhead.

The Godhead is but one, yet in the Godhead there are three. "There
are three that can bear record in heaven" (1 John 5:7-9). These
three are called "the Father, the Son [Word], and the Holy Spirit";
each of which is really, naturally and eternally God: yet there
is but one God. But again, because the Father is of himself, the
Son by the Father, and the Spirit from them both, therefore to
each, the scripture not only applieth, and that truly, the whole
nature of the Deity, but again distinguisheth the Father from
the Son, and the Spirit from them both; calling the Father HE, by
himself; the Son HE, by himself; the Spirit HE, by himself. Yea,
the Three of themselves, in their manifesting to the church what
she should believe concerning this matter, hath thus expressed
the thing: "Let us make man in OUR image, after OUR likeness" (Gen
1:26). Again, "The man is become as one of US" (Gen 3:22). Again,
"Let US go down, and there confound their language" (Gen 11:6,7).
And again, "Whom shall I send, and who will go for US?" (Isa 6:8).
To these general expressions might be added, That Adam heard the
voice of the Lord God walking in the midst of the garden: Genesis
3:8. Which voice John will have, to be one of the Three, calling
that which Moses here saith is the voice, the word of God: "In the
beginning," saith he, "was the word": the voice which Adam heard
walking in the midst of the garden. This word, saith John, "was
with God," this "word was God. The same was in the beginning with
God" (John 1:1,2). Marvellous language! Once asserting the unity
of essence, but twice insinuating a distinction of substances
therein. "The word was with God, the word was God, the same was
in the beginning with God." Then follows, "All things were made
by him," the word, the second of the three.

Now the godly in former ages have called these three, thus in the
Godhead, Persons or Subsistances; the which, though I condemn not,
yet choose rather to abide by scripture phrase, knowing, though
the other may be good and sound, yet the adversary must needs more
shamelessly spurn and reject, when he doth it against the evident
text.

To proceed the, First, There are Three. Second, These three are
distinct.

First, By this word Three, is intimated the Father, the Word, and
the Holy Ghost, and they are said to be three, 1. Because those
appellations that are given them in scripture, demonstrate them so
to be, to wit, Father, Son and Holy Ghost. 2. Because their acts
one towards another discover them so to be.

Secondly, These three are distinct. 1. So distinct as to be more
than one, only: There are three. 2. So distinct as to subsist
without depending. The Father is true God, the Son is true God,
the Spirit is true God. Yet the Father is one, the Son is one,
the Spirit is one: The Father is one of himself, the Son is one
by the Father, the Spirit is one from them both. Yet the Father is
not above the Son, nor the Spirit inferior to either: The Father
is God, the Son is God, the Spirit is God.

Among the three then there is not superiority. 1. Not as to time;
the Father is from everlasting, so is the Son, so is the Spirit.
2. Not as to nature, the Son being of the substance of the Father,
and the Spirit of the substance of them both. 3. The fulness of
the Godhead is in the Father, is in the Son, and is in the Holy
Ghost.

The Godhead then, though it can admit of a Trinity, yet it admitteth
not of inferiority in that Trinity: if otherwise, then less or more
must be there, and so either plurality of gods, or something that
is not God: so then, Father, Son and Spirit are in the Godhead,
yet but one God; each of these is God over all, yet no Trinity of
Gods, but one God in the Trinity.

Explication.--The Godhead then is common to the three, but the
three themselves abide distinct in that Godhead: Distinct, I say,
as Father, and Son, and Holy Spirit. This is manifest further by
these several positions.

First, Father and Son are relatives, and must needs therefore have
their relation as such: A Father begetteth, a Son is begotten.

Proof.--"Who hath ascended up into heaven, or descended? Who
hath gathered the wind in his fists? Who hath bound the waters in
a garment? What is his name, and what is his son's name, if thou
canst tell?" (Pro 30:4).

"God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son," &c.
(John 3:16).

"The Father sent the Son to be the Saviour of the world" (1 John
4:14).

Secondly, The Father then cannot be that Son he begat, nor the Son
that Father that begat him, but must be distinct as such.

Proof.--"I am one that bear witness of myself, and the Father that
sent me beareth witness of me" (John 8:17,18).

"I came forth from the Father, and am come into the world"; again,
"I leave the world, and go to the Father" (John 16:28).

"The Father judgeth no man, but hath committed all judgment unto
the Son: That all men should honour the Son, even as they honour
the Father" (John 5:22,23).

Thirdly, The Father must have worship as a Father, and the Son as
a Son.

Proof.--They that worship the Father must worship him "in spirit
and in truth: for the Father seeketh such to worship him" (John
4:23,24).

And of the Son he saith, and "when he bringeth in the first begotten
into the world, he saith, And let all the angels of God worship
him" (Heb 1:6).

Fourthly, The Father and Son have really these distinct, but
heavenly, relative properties, that discover them, as such, to be
two as well as one.

Proof.--"The Father loveth the Son, and sheweth him all things"
(John 5:20).

"Therefore doth my Father love me, because I lay down my life,
that I might take it again" (John 10:17). The Father sent the Son;
the Father commanded the Son; the Son prayed to the Father, and
did always the things that pleased him.

The absurdities that flow from the denial of this are divers, some
of which hereunder follow.

1. Absurdity.--It maketh void all those scriptures that do affirm
the doctrine; some of which you have before.

2. Absurdity.--If in the Godhead there be but one, not three, then
the Father, Son, or the Spirit, must needs be that one, if any one
only: so then the other two are nothing. Again, If the reality of
a being be neither in the Father, Son, nor Spirit, as such, but
in the eternal deity, without consideration of Father, Son, and
Spirit as three; then neither of the three are anything but notions
in us, or manifestations of the Godhead; or nominal distinctions;
so related by the word; but if so, then when the Father sent the
Son, and the Father and Son the Spirit, one notion sent another,
one manifestation sent another. This being granted, this unavoidably
follows, there was no Father to beget a Son, no Son to be sent to
save us, no Holy Ghost to be sent to comfort us, and to guide us
into all the truth of the Father and Son, &c. The most amounts but
to this, a notion sent a notion, a distinction sent a distinction,
or one manifestation sent another. Of this error these are the
consequences, we are only to believe in notions and distinctions,
when we believe in the Father and the Son; and so shall have no
other heaven and glory, than notions and nominal distinctions can
furnish us withal.

3. Absurdity.--If Father and Son, &c., be no otherwise three, than
as notions, names, or nominal distinctions; then to worship these
distinctly, or together, as such, is to commit most gross and
horrible idolatry: For albeit we are commanded to fear that great
and dreadful name, The Lord our God; yet to worship a Father, a
Son, and Holy Spirit in the Godhead, as three, as really three as
one, is by this doctrine to imagine falsely of God, and so to break
the second commandment: but to worship God under the consideration
of Father, and Son, and Holy Ghost, and to believe them as really
three as one when I worship, being the sum and substance of the
doctrine of the scriptures of God, there is really substantially
three in the eternal Godhead.

But to help thee a little in thy study on this deep.

1. Thou must take heed when thou readest, there is in the Godhead,
Father, and Son, &c., that thou do not imagine about them according
to thine own carnal and foolish fancy; for no man can apprehend
this doctrine but in the light of the word and Spirit of God. "No
man knoweth the Son, but the Father; neither knoweth any man the
Father, save the Son; and he to whom the Son will reveal him" (Matt
11:27). If therefore thou be destitute of the Spirit of God, thou
canst not apprehend the truth of this mystery as it is in itself,
but will either by thy darkness be driven to a denial thereof; or
if thou own it, thou wilt (that thy acknowledgment notwithstanding)
falsely imagine about it.

2. If thou feel thy thoughts begin to wrestle about this truth,
and to struggle concerning this one against another; take heed
of admitting of such a question, How can this thing be? For here
is no room for reason to make it out, here is only room to believe
it is a truth. You find not one of the prophets propounding an
argument to prove it; but asserting it, they let it lie, for faith
to take it up and embrace it.

"The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the
communion of the Holy Ghost, be with you all. Amen" (2 Cor 13:14).

III. Of the Creation of the World (Gen 1).

The Apostle saith, That "to us there is but one God, the Father,
of whom are all things, and we in him, and one Lord Jesus Christ,
by whom are all things, and we by him" (1 Cor 8:6). "God that
made the world" (Acts 17:24). "All things were made by him; and
without him was not any thing made that was made" (John 1:3). This
world therefore had a beginning, and was created by the God of
heaven. Which work, because it is wonderful, and discovereth much
of the greatness, of the wisdom and power of the eternal Godhead,
it behoveth such poor mortals as we to behold these works of the
mighty God, that thereby we may see how great he is, and be made
to cry out, What is man! [2] (Psa 8:3,4)

Now in the creation of the world we may consider several things;
as, What was the order of God in this work? And, whether there
was a secret or mystery in this work containing the truth of some
higher thing? For the first of these:

Of the Order of God in Making the World.

[THE HEAVEN.]

Although God be indeed omnipotent, and not only can, but doth
do whatsoever he will; and though to do his works he needeth not
length of time; yet it pleased him best, in the creation of the
world (though it could, had it pleased him, have done all by one
only word) to proceed by degrees from one thing to another, to
the completing of six days' work in the making thereof.

And forasmuch as this work went on by degrees, now this thing,
and then another, it may not be amiss, if in our discourse on
this wonderful work, we begin where God began; and if we can, go
wondering after him who hath thus wrought.

1. The first thing that God made was time; I say, it was time: All
the plain in which he would build this beautiful world; he made
nothing before, but in the beginning: "In the beginning God created
the heaven and the earth" (Gen 1:1). In the beginning of time.
"For in six days the LORD made heaven and earth, the sea, and all
that in them is" (Exo 20:11). Therefore the first day must first
have a beginning to be. Whatsoever was before time, was eternal;
but nothing but God himself is eternal, therefore no creature was
before time. Time, therefore, which was indeed the beginning, was
the first of the creatures of God.

2. I think, the second of creatures that the Lord created, were
the holy angels of God, they being called the morning stars, as
created and shining in the morning of the world; and therefore
they are said to be by, when the corner-stone of the universe was
laid; that is, when he "laid the foundations" of the world: Then
"the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted
for joy" (Job 5:4-7).

3. I think the third thing that the Lord created, was these large
and copious heavens; for they are mentioned with respect to their
being before the earth, or any visible creature. "In the beginning
God created the heavens" (Gen 1:1), &c. Neither do I think that
the heavens were made of that confused chaos that afterwards we
read of. It is said, he stretched out the heavens as a curtain, and
with his hand he hath spanned the heavens (Psa 104:2; Isa 40:22;
48:13).; intimating, that they were not taken out of that formless
heap, but were immediately formed by his power. Besides, the
Holy Ghost, treating of the creating of heaven and earth, he only
saith, The earth was void, and without form; but no such thing of
the heavens.

[THE EARTH.]

4. The fourth thing that God created, it was (in mine opinion) that
chaos, or first matter, with which he in the six days framed this
earth, with its appurtenances; for the visible things that are
here below, seem to me to be otherwise put into being and order,
than time, the angels, and the heavens, they being created in
their own simple essence by themselves: But the things that are
visibly here below, whatever their essence and nature be, they
were formed of that first deformed chaos. "In the beginning God
created the heaven and the earth, and the earth was without form
and void" (Gen 1:1,2). He saith not so of the heavens; they, as
I said, were at first stretched forth as a curtain; indeed they
were afterwards garnished with the beauty which we now behold;
but otherwise they had, at their first instant of being, that form
which now they have. This seems clear by the antithesis which the
Holy Ghost put between them, God created the heaven and the earth,
but "the earth was without form and void" (Gen 1:2). The earth
was without form, &c., without order; things were together on a
confused heap; the waters were not divided from the earth, neither
did those things appear which are now upon the face of the earth;
as man, and beast, fish, fowls, trees, and herbs; all these did
afterwards shew themselves, as the word of God gave them being, by
commanding their appearance, in what form, order, place and time
he in himself had before determined; but all, I say, took their
matter and substance of that first chaos, which he in the first
day of the world had commanded to appear, and had given being
to: And therefore 'tis said, God said, Let the earth bring forth
grass, herbs, trees, &c., (v 12) and that the waters brought forth
the fish, and fowl, yea, even to the mighty whales (vv 21,22).
Also the earth brought forth cattle, and creeping things (v 24).
And that God made man of the dust of the ground (3:19). All these
things therefore were made of, or caused by his word distinctly
to appear, and be after its kind, of that first matter which he
had before created by his word. Observe therefore, That the matter
of all earthly things was made at the same instant, but their
forming, &c., was according to the day in which God gave them
their being, in their own order and kind. And hence it is said,
that after that first matter was created, and found without form
and void, that the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters;
that is to work, and cause those things to appear in their own
essence and form, which, as to matter and substance, was before
created: Wherefore it follows, And God said, Let there be light;
and God divided the light from the darkness, &c. Now he set to
putting in frame that which before lay in disorder and confusion:
And this was a great part of the six days' work; I say, a great
part, but not all; for (as I said) before that time, the angels,
and the heavens were made; yea, after the beginning of the morning
of the first day. I am of the belief, that other things also, that
were formed after, were not made of that first chaos, as the sun,
the moon, the stars, the light, the souls of men, and possibly
the air, &c. The sun, and moon, and stars, are said to be made
the fourth day, yet not of the body of heaven itself, much less,
in my opinion, of any earthly matter: God made them, and set them
in the firmament of heaven (vv 16,17). So the light that was made
before, it seems to be a thing created after the heavens and the
earth were created: Created, I say, as a thing that wanted a being
before, any otherwise, than in the decree of God: and God said,
Let there be light; Let it have a being (v 3). And so, though
the body of man was made of the substance of earth, yet as to his
soul, it is said, God breathed into his nostrils the breath of
life, and man became a living soul (2:7).

Whether there was a secret or mystery in this work, containing the
truth of some higher thing.

Though God in very deed, by his eternal power, created heaven and
earth of things that do not appear, we that are Christians believe:
yet in this his wonderful work, neither his will or understanding
did here terminate, or make a stop; but being infinite in wisdom,
he made them, that both as to matter and manner, they might present
unto us, as in a mystery, some higher and more excellent thing;
in this wisdom he made them all. And hence it is that other things
are also called a creation: As, 1. The essential conversion of a
sinner (2 Cor 5:17). 2. The recovery of the church from a degenerate
state (Rev 21:5).

And therefore, as Moses begins with the creation of the world, so
John begins with the gospel of salvation (Gen 1:1; John 1:1). There
is also besides many excellent things in the manner and order of the
creation of the world, held forth to those that have understanding:
Some of which I may touch upon by way of observation. But to begin
with the first:

The first appearance of this earthy part of the world, is recorded
to be but a formless and void heap or chaos; and such is man before
a new creation: formless, I mean, as to the order of the Testament
of Christ, and void of the holy order thereof: And hence Jeremiah,
when he would set forth the condition of a wicked people, he doth
it under this metaphor: "I beheld [saith he] the earth, and, lo,
it was without form and void" (Jer 4:23). Indeed, the world would
make this a type of Christ; to wit, a man of no form or comeliness
(Isa 53:2). But 'tis only true of themselves; they are without a
New Testament impression upon them; they are void of the sovereign
grace of God. So then the power of God gave the world a being, but
by his word he set it in form and beauty; even as by his power he
gives a being to man, but by his word he giveth him New Testament
framing and glory (Eph 2:10-13). This is still followed by that
which follows:

And darkness was upon the face of the deep (v 2).

The Deep here, might be a type of the heart of man before conversion;
and so Solomon seems to intimate. Now as the darkness of this world
did cover the face of this first chaos; so spiritual darkness the
heart of the sons of men: and hence they are said to be darkened,
to be in darkness, yea, to be very darkness itself.

"And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters."

A blessed emblem of the word of God in the matter of regeneration;
for as the first chaos remained without form, and void, until the
Spirit of God moved to work upon it, and by working, to put this
world into frame and order; so man, as he comes into the world,
abides a confused lump, an unclean thing; a creature without New
Testament order, until by the Spirit of the Lord he is transformed
into the image of Jesus Christ (Gal 1:15).

"And the Spirit of God moved upon the face."

Solomon compares the heart to a man's face; because as in the face
may be discerned whether there is anger or otherwise; so by the
inclinations of the heart are discovered the truth of the condition of
the man, as to his state either for heaven or hell. And besides,
as the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters; so in
the work of our conversion, the Spirit of God beginneth with the
heart of the sons of men; because the heart is the main fort (Acts
2:37). Now if the main fort be not taken, the adversary is still
capable of making continual resistance. Therefore God first
conquers the heart; therefore the Spirit of God moveth upon the
face of our heart, when he cometh to convert us from Satan to God.

"And God said, Let there be light."

This is the first thing with which God began the order of the
creation; to wit, light, "Let there be light": From which many
profitable notes may be gathered, as to the order of God in the
salvation of the soul. As,

1. When the Holy Ghost worketh upon us, and in us, in order to
a new creation; he first toucheth our understanding, that great
peace of the heart, with his spiritual illumination (Matt 4:16).
His first word, in order to our conversion, is, Let there be light:
light, to see their state by nature; light, to see the fruits and
effects of sin; light, to see the truth and worth of the merits
of Jesus Christ; light, to see the truth and faithfulness of God,
in keeping promise and covenant with them that embrace salvation
upon the blessed terms of the gospel of peace (Heb 10:32). Now
that this word, Let there be light, was a semblance of the first
work of the Holy Ghost upon the heart, compare it with that
of Paul to the Corinthians; "For God, who commanded the light to
shine out of darkness," that is, at the beginning of the world,
"hath shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of
the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ" (2 Cor 4:6).

2. "And God said, Let there be light." As here, the light of this
world; so in conversion, the light of the New Testament of Christ,
it comes by the word of God. No word, no light: therefore the
apostle saith, He "hath brought life and immortality to light
through the gospel" (2 Tim 1:10). And therefore Paul saith again,
That salvation is manifest through preaching, through the expounding
or opening of the word of faith.

3. "And God said, Let there be light; and there was light": He
spake the word, and it was done; all that darkness that before
did cover the face of the deep, could not now hinder the being of
light. So neither can all the blindness and ignorance that is in
the heart of man, hinder the light of the knowledge of the glory
of God in the face of Jesus Christ (Rev 3:7). When it pleaseth
God to reveal, it is revealed; when he openeth, none can shut: He
said, Let there be light, and there was light.

And God saw that the light was good. Truly the light is good (saith
Solomon) and a pleasant thing it is for the eye to behold the sun.
It was good, because it was God's creature; and so in the work of
grace that is wrought in our hearts, that light of the new covenant,
it is good, because it is God's work, the work of his good pleasure
(2 Thess 1:11); that good work which he hath not only begun, but
promised to fulfil until the day of Jesus Christ (Phil 1:6).

God saw that the light was good. The darkness that before did cover
the face of the waters, was not a creature of God, but a privation,
or that which was caused by reason that light was not as yet in
the world: so sin, that darkness that might be felt, is not the
workmanship of God in the soul, but that which is the work of the
devil; and that taketh occasion to be, by reason that the true
light, as yet, doth not shine in the soul.

"And God divided the light from the darkness." As Paul saith, What
communion hath light with darkness? they cannot agree to dwell
together (2 Cor 6:14). We see the night still flies before the day,
and dareth not come upon us again, but as the light diminisheth
and conveyeth itself away. So it is in the new creation; before
the light of the glorious gospel of Christ appears, there is night,
all night, in the soul (Eph 5:8): but when that indeed doth shine
in the soul, then for night there is day in the soul: "Ye were
darkness [saith Paul] but now are ye light in the Lord" (v 9): And,
"The darkness is past [saith John] and the true light now shineth"
(1 John 2:8).

"And God divided the light from the darkness."

God took part with the light, and preserved it from the darkness.
By these words, it seems that darkness and light began the quarrel,
before that bloody bout of Cain and Abel (Gal 5:17). The light and
the darkness struggled together, and nothing could divide or part
them but God. Darkness is at implacable enmity with light in the
creation of the world; and so it is in that rare work of regeneration,
the flesh lusteth against the spirit, and the spirit against the
flesh; as Peter saith, Fleshly lusts, they war against the soul.
This every Christian feels, and also that which I mentioned before,
namely, That before he be capable of opposing antichrist, with
Abel, in the world, he findeth a struggling in his own soul between
the light and the darkness that is there.

"And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night."

God doth not only distinguish by separating, but also by certain
characters; that things which are distinguished and separate, may
to us be the better known; he did so here in the work of creating
the world, and he doth so also in the great concern of man's
eternal happiness. The place of felicity is called heaven: The
place of torment is called hell: that which leads to hell is called
sin, transgression, iniquity, and wickedness; that which leads to
heaven, righteousness, holiness, goodness and uprightness: even as
in these types God called the light day, of which the godly are
the children (1 Thess 5:5); but the darkness he called night, of
which all ungodly men are the inhabiters and children also. Thus
after the Spirit of God had moved upon the face of the waters;
after God had commanded the light to shine, and had divided between
the light and the darkness, and had characterized them by their
proper names, he concludes the first day's work, "And the evening
and the morning were the first day." In which conclusion there is
wrapped up a blessed gospel-mystery; for God, by concluding the
first day here, doth shew us how we ought to determine that one
is made indeed a Christian: Even then when the Spirit of God hath
moved upon the face of the heart, when he hath commanded that light
should be there, when he divideth between, or setteth the light
at variance with the darkness; and when the soul doth receive the
characters of both, to observe them, and carry it to each according
to the mouth of God.

"And God saith, Let there be a firmament" (v 6).

This firmament he calleth heaven (v 8). Now this firmament, or
heaven, was to make a separation, or to divide between the waters
and the waters (v 7); To separate, I say, the waters from the
waters; the waters which were under the firmament, from the waters
which were above the firmament. Now by waters is signified in
the scriptures many things, as afflictions, worldly people (Psa
69:1,2), and particularly the saints (Rev 19:6); but in this place
is figured forth, all the people in the world, but so as consisting
of two parts, the children of God, and the children of the wicked
one: They under the heaven, figure out the world, or ungodly:
they above the firmament, the elect and chosen of God. And hence
in scripture the one is called heaven, and the other is called
earth, to signify the separation and difference that there is
between the one and the other.

"And God made the firmament, and divided the waters--from the
waters."

Indeed the world think that this separation comes, or is made,
through the captiousness of the preacher: But in truth it is the
handy work of God; And God made the firmament, and God divided,
&c. "I," saith he, "will put enmity between thee and the woman,
and between thy seed and her seed" (Gen 3:15). The good seed are
the children of the kingdom of God, but the bad are the children
of the wicked one (Matt 13:38).

"And God made the firmament, and divided the waters which were under
the firmament, from the waters which were above the firmament:
and it was so" (v 7).

Whatsoever the Lord doth, it abideth for ever (Eccl 3:14). And again,
What he hath made crooked, who can make straight? (Eccl 1:15). He
said it in the beginning, and behold how it hath continued! Yea,
though there hath been endeavours on Satan's part, to mingle his
children with the seed of men; yet it hath not been possible they
should ever cleave one to another, "even as iron is not mixed
with clay" (Dan 2:43). Yea, let me add further, What laws have
been made, what blood hath been shed, what cruelty hath been used,
and what flatteries and lies invented, and all to make these two
waters and people one? And yet all hath failed, and fallen short
of producing the desired effect; for the Lord hath made a firmament,
even heaven itself hath divided between them.

"And God called the firmament heaven. And the evening and the
morning were the second day" (v 8).

After the waters were divided from the waters, God called the cause
of dividing, heaven; and so concluded the second day's work. And
indeed it was a very great work, as in the antitype we feel it to
this very day. Dividing work is difficult work, and he that can,
according to God, completely end and finish it, he need do no more
that day of his life.

"And God said, Let the waters under the heaven be gathered together
unto one place, and let the dry land appear: and it was so" (v
9).

Although in the second day's work, the waters above the firmament,
and those that be under, are the two peoples, or great families
of the world (Pro 8:31); yet because God would shew us by things
on earth, the flourishing state of those that are his (Hosea 10:12;
Joel 2:21-23; Psa 91:1; Heb 6:7), therefore he here doth express
his mind by another kind of representation of things (Jer 4:3,4):
"And God said, Let the waters under the heaven be gathered together
unto one place; and let the dry land appear." The waters here
signifying the world; but the fruitful earth, the thrifty church
of God. That the fruitful earth is a figure of the thriving church
of God in this world, is evident from many scriptures, (and there
was nothing but thriftiness till the curse came). And hence it is
said of the church, That she should break the clods of the ground;
that she should sow righteousness, and reap it; that she should not
sow among thorns; that if this be done, the heart is circumcised,
and spiritual fruit shall flow forth, and grow abundantly: And
hence again it is that the officers and eminent ones in the church,
are called vines, trees, and other fruitful plants. And hence it
is said again, When the Lord reigneth, let the earth (that is,
the church) rejoice. That earth which bringeth forth fruit meet
for him by whom it is dressed, receiveth blessing from God. In
all which places, and many more that might be named, the earth is
made a figure of the church of God; and so I count it here in this
place.

"And God said, Let the waters under the heaven be gathered into
one place."

Let them be together: It is not thus of all waters, but of the sea,
which is still here a type of the world. Let them be so together,
that the earth may appear; that the church may be rid of their
rage and tumult, and then she will be fruitful, as it follows in
this first book of Genesis. The church is then in a flourishing
state, when the world is farthest off from her, and when the
roaring of their waves are far away. Now therefore let all the
wicked men be far from thence (Ezra 6:6): The Lord gather these
waters, which in another place are called the doleful creatures,
and birds of prey; Let these, O Lord, be gathered together to
their own places, and be settled in the land of Shinar upon their
own base (Zech 5:11): Then the wilderness and the solitary places
shall be glad for them; that is, for that they are departed thence,
the desert shall rejoice and blossom as a rose (Isa 34 and 35).

"And God called the dry land Earth; and the gathering together of
the waters called he seas: and God saw that it was good" (v 10).

God saw, that to separate the waters from the earth was good: And
so it is, for then have the churches rest. Then doth this earth
bring forth her fruit, as in the 11th and 12th verses may here be
seen.

"And God said, Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven"
(v 14).

The wisdom of God, is there to make use of figures and shadows,
even where most fit things, the things under consideration, may be
most fitly demonstrated. The dividing the waters from the waters,
most fitly doth show the work of God in choosing and refusing; by
dividing the waters from the earth, doth show how fruitful God's
earth, the church is, when persecutors are made to be far from
thence.

Wherefore he speaketh not of garnishing of his church until he
comes to this fourth day's work: by his Spirit he hath garnished
the heavens, that most fitly showing the glory of the church.

Let there be lights; to wit, the sun, the moon, and the stars.

The sun is in this place a type of Christ, the Sun of Righteousness:
The moon is a type of the church, in her uncertain condition in
this world: The stars are types of the several saints and officers
in this church. And hence it is that the sun is said not only to
rule, but it, with the moon and stars, to be set for signs, and
for seasons, and for days, and for years, &c. (Rev 1:20). But if
we take the heaven for the church, then how is she beautified,
when the Son of God is placed in the midst of her! (Rev 1:12,13).
And how plainly is her condition made out, even by the changing,
increasing, and diminishing of the moon! And how excellent is that
congregation of men, that for light and glory are figured by the
stars! (Matt 28:20).

From this day's work much might be observed.

First, That forasmuch as the sun was not made before the fourth
day, it is evident there was light in the world before the sun was
created; for in the first day God said, Let there be light, and
there was light. This may also teach us thus much, That before
Christ came in person, there was spiritual light in the saints
of God. And again, That as the sun was not made before the fourth
day of the creation, so Christ should not be born before the
fourth mystical day of the world; for it is evident, that Christ,
the true light of the world, was not born till about four thousand
years after the world was made. Second, As to the moon, there are
four things attending her, which fitly may hold forth the state
of the church. (1.) In that she changeth from an old to a new, we
may conceive, that God by making her so, did it to show he would
one day make a change of his church, from a Jewish to a Gentile
congregation. (2.) In that she increaseth, she showeth the
flourishing state of the church. (3.) In her diminishing, the
diminishing state of the church. (4.) The moon is also sometimes
made to look as red as blood, to show how dreadful and bloody the
suffering of the church is at some certain times.

Third, By the stars, we understand two things. (1.) How innumerable
the saints, those spiritual stars shall be (Heb 11:12). (2.) How
they shall differ each from other in glory (1 Cor 15:41).

"And God said, Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven,
to divide the day from the night."

For though before the light was divided from the darkness, yet the
day and night was not so kept within their bounds, as now by these
lights they were: probably signifying, that nothing should be so
clearly distinguished and made appear, as by the sun light of the
gospel of Christ: for by that it is that "the shadows flee away"
(Song 2:17). The light of the sun gathers the day to its hours, both
longer and shorter, and forceth also the night to keep within his
bounds.

"And God made two great lights; the greater light to rule the day,
and the lesser light to rule the night" (v 16).

Signifying, That Christ should be the light and governor of his
church, which are the children of the day; but the church, a light
to the children of the night, that by them they might learn the
mysteries of the kingdom. Saith Christ to his own, "Ye are the light
of the world": And again, "Let your light so shine,--that men may
see," &c., for though they that only walk in the night, cannot see
to walk by the sun, yet by the moon they may. Thus the heaven is
a type of the church, the moon a type of her uncertain state in
this world; the stars are types of her immovable converts; and
their glory, of the differing degrees of theirs, both here, and
in the other world. Much more might be said, but I pass this.

"And God said, Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving
creature that hath life" (v 20).

The sea, as I said, is a figure of the world; wherefore the creatures
that are in it, of the men of the world (Zech 13:8; Isa 60:5). This
sea bringeth forth small and great beasts, even as the world doth
yield both small and great persecutors, who like the fishes of prey,
eat up and devour what they can of those fish that are of another
condition. Now also out of the world that mystical sea, as fishers
do out of the natural; both Christ and his servants catch mystical
fish, even fish as of the great sea.

In the sea God created great whales, he made them to play therein.

Which whales in the sea are types of the devils in the world:
Therefore as the devil is called, the prince of this world; so the
whale is called, king over all the children of pride (Job 41:33,34).

"And God said, Let the earth bring forth the living creature after
his kind" (v 24).

Of the beginning of this sixth day's work that may be said which
is said of the fishes, and the rest of the sea; for as there is
variety of fish in the one, so of beasts and cattle in the other,
who also make a prey of their fellows, as the fishes do; a most apt
representation of the nature and actions of bloody and deceitful
men: Hence persecutors are called bulls, bears, lions, wolves,
tigers, dragons, dogs, foxes, leopards, and the like.[3]

"And God said, Let us make man" (v 26).

I observe, that in the creation of the world, God goeth gradually
on, from things less, to things more abundantly glorious; I mean,
as to the creation of this earth; and the things that thereto
appertain. First he bringeth forth a confused chaos, then he
commands matter to appear distinct, then the earth bringeth forth
trees, and herbs, and grass; after that beasts; and the sea, fowls;
and last of all, Let us make man. Now passing by the doctrine
of the trinity, because spoken to before, I come to make some
observation upon this wonderful piece of the workmanship of God.

"Let us make man." Man in whom is also included the woman, was
made the last of the creatures. From whence we may gather,

God's respect to this excellent creature, in that he first provideth
for him, before he giveth him his being: He bringeth him not to an
empty house, but to one well furnished with all kind of necessaries,
having beautified the heaven and the earth with glory, and all
sorts of nourishment, for his pleasure and sustenance.[4]

"Let us make man in our image, after our likeness."

An image, or the likeness of any thing, is not the thing of which
it is a figure; so here, Adam is an image, or made in the likeness
of God. Now as Adam is the image of God, it must either respect
him, as he consisteth of the soul, as a part; or as he consists
of a body and soul together: If as he is made a reasonable soul,
then he is an excellent image of the eternal Godhead, the attributes
of the one being shadowed out by the qualities and passions of
the other; for as there is in the Godhead, power, knowledge, love,
and righteousness; so a likeness of these is in the soul of man,
especially of man before he had sinned: And as there is passions
of pity, compassion, affections, and bowels in man; so there are
these in a far more infinite way in God.

Again, If this image respect the whole man, then Adam was a figure
of God, as incarnate; or of God, as he was to be made afterwards
man. And hence it is, that as Adam is called the image of God
(Rom 5:14); so also is Christ himself called and reckoned as the
answering antitype of such an image.

But again, Though Adam be here called the image or similitude
of God; yet but so as that he was the shadow of a more excellent
image. Adam was a type of Christ, who only is "the express image"
of his Father's person, and the likeness of his excellent glory
(Heb 1:3). For those things that were in Adam, were but of a humane,
but of a created substance; but those that were in Christ, of the
same divine and eternal excellency with the Father.

Is Christ then the image of the Father, simply, as considered of
the same divine and eternal excellency with him? Certainly, No:
for an image is doubtless inferior to that of which it is a figure.
Understand then, that Christ is the image of the Father's glory,
as born of the Virgin Mary, yet so, as being very God also: Not
that his Godhead in itself was a shadow or image, but by the acts
and doing of that man, every act being infinitely perfect by virtue
of his Godhead, the Father's perfections were made manifest to
flesh. An image is to be looked upon, and by being looked upon,
another thing is seen; so by the person and doings of the Lord
Jesus, they that indeed could see him as he was, discovered the
perfection and glory of the Father.--"Philip, He that hath seen
me hath seen the Father; and how sayest thou then, Shew us the
Father?" (John 14:9). Neither the Father nor the Son can by us at
all be seen, as they are simply and entirely in their own essence.
Therefore the person of the Father must be seen by us, through
the Son, as consisting of God and man; the Godhead, by working
effectually in the manhood, shewing clearly there through the
infinite perfection and glory of the Father: "The word was made
flesh, and--[then] we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only
begotten of the Father, [He being in his personal excellencies,
infinitely and perfectly, what is recorded of his Father,] full
of grace and truth" (John 1:14). So again, he "is the image of
the invisible God" (Col 1:15). The Godhead is indeed invisible;
how then is Christ the image of it? Not by being invisible also;
for so is he as much hid as the Father; but being clothed with
flesh, that the works of the Son might by us be seen, he thereby
presenteth to us, as in a figure, the eternal excellency of the
Father. And hence as he is called "an image," he is also called
"the first-born" of every creature (Col 1:18). His being a creature,
respecting his manhood, and his birth, and his rising again from
the dead. Therefore a little after, he is called, "the first-born
from the dead" (v 19): And in another place, "the first-begotten
of the dead" (Rev 1:5): And "the first-fruits of them that slept"
(1 Cor 15:20). So then, though Adam was the image of God, yet
God's image but as a mere creature: But Christ though a creature
as touching his manhood; yet being also God, as the Father, he
shewed forth expressly, in capital characters, by all his works
and doings in the world, the beauty and glory of the Father: "The
light of the knowledge of the glory of God," is given "in the face
of Jesus Christ" (2 Cor 4:6). Where by face, we must understand
that which is visible, that being open when all else is covered,
and that by which most principally we are discovered to others,
and known. Now as to the case in hand, this face must signify to
us the personal virtues and doings of Christ, by which the glory
of the Father is exposed; the glory of his justice, by Christ's
exactness of life; the glory of his love, by Christ's compassion
to sinners, &c.

Ver. 26. "And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our
likeness: and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and
over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the
earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth."

As Adam was a type of Christ, as the image and glory of God; so by
these words he further showeth, that he was a type of his sovereign
power; for to him be dominion and power everlasting (Heb 2:8,9),
"to whom be praise and dominion for ever" (1 Peter 4:11; Jude 25).
Now by the fish of the sea, the beasts of the earth, the fowls of
the air, and every creeping thing, we may understand all creatures,
visible and invisible, whether they be men, angels, or devils; in
heaven, earth, or under the earth: also all thrones, authorities
and powers, whether in heaven, in earth, or hell: Christ is made
head over all; He hath also a name above every name, "not only in
this world, but in that which is to come" (Eph 1:25).

Ver. 28. "And God blessed them; and God said unto them, [that is,
to the man and his wife] Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish
the earth, and subdue it," &c.

This in the type doth show, in the antitype, how fruitful Christ
and his church shall be; and how he at last shall, all over the
earth, have a seed to replenish and subdue it by the power of the
immortal seed of the word of God: how his name shall be reverenced
from one end of the earth to the other: how the kingdoms of the
earth shall ALL at last become the kingdoms of our Lord, and of
his Christ.

"And subdue it." God did put that majesty and dread upon Adam, at
his creation, that all the beasts of the field submitted themselves
unto him. As God also said to Noah, "The fear of you and the dread
of you shall be upon every beast of the earth, and upon every fowl
of the air, upon all that moveth upon the earth, and upon all the
fishes of the sea; into your hand are they delivered" (Gen 9:2).

"And God said, Behold I have given you every herb bearing seed,
which is upon the face of all the earth; and every tree, in the
which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall be
for meat" (Gen 1:29).

These herbs and trees are types of the wholesome word of the gospel,
on which both Christ, his church, and unconverted sinners, ought
to feed and be refreshed; and without which thee is no subsisting
either of one or the other: "He causeth the grass to grow for the
cattle, and herb for the service of man: that he may bring forth
food out of the earth; and wine that maketh glad the heart of man,
and oil to make his face to shine, and bread which strengtheneth
man's heart" (Psa 104:14,15).

"And God saw every thing that he had made, and, behold, it was
very good" (v 31).

All things have their natural goodness by creation. Things are not
good, because they have a being only, but because God gave them
such a being. Neither did God make them, because he saw they would
attract a goodness to themselves; but he made them in such kind,
as to bring forth that goodness he before determined they should.
"And the evening and the morning were the sixth day."

CHAPTER II.

Ver. 3. "And God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it: because
that in it he had rested from all his work which God created and
made."

The seventh day did signify two things:

First, Christ Jesus, who is as well the rest of the justice of God,
as a rest for sinful man.

Secondly, It was also a type of that glorious rest that saints
shall have when the six days of this world are fully ended.

For the first, the apostle makes the sabbath a shadow of Jesus
Christ, "a shadow of things to come; but the body [or substance] is
of Christ" (Col 2:17). And hence it is that he is so often said to
be "a rest" to the Gentiles, a glorious rest, and that he promiseth
rest to such as cast their burthen upon him (Matt 11:29).

The second also the apostle asserteth in that fourth chapter to
the Hebrews, "There remaineth therefore a rest," or the keeping of
a sabbath, "to the people of God" (v 9 read also vv 4-11). Which
sabbath, as I conceive, will be the seventh thousand of years, which
are to follow immediately after the world hath stood six thousand
first: for as God was six days in the works of creation, and rested
the seventh; so in six thousand years he will perfect his works
and providences that concern this world. As also he will finish
the toil and travel of his saints, with the burthen of the beasts,
and the curse of the ground; and bring all into rest for a thousand
years. A day with the Lord, is as a thousand years: wherefore
this blessed and desirable time is also called "a day," "a great
day," "that great and notable day of the Lord" (Acts 2:20), which
shall end in the eternal judgment of the world. God hath held
forth this by several other shadows, as the sabbath of weeks, the
sabbath of years, and the great jubilee, which is to be the year
after forty-nine years are expired (Lev 25:1-13). Of all which,
more in their place, if God permit.

Ver. 4. "These are the generations of the heavens and of the earth
when they were created, in the day that the LORD God made the earth
and the heavens."

Moses seems by these words, "In the day," to insist principally
upon them in their first and primitive state, before there was
sin or curse in the world; for in the day that they were created,
there was a far more glorious lustre and beauty than now can be
seen; the heaven, for sin, is, as it were, turned into brass; and
the rain into powder and dust, in comparison of what it was as it
came from the fingers of God. The earth hath also from that time
a curse upon it; yea, the whole creation, by sin, is even "made
subject to vanity," is in travail, and groans under the burthen
that sin hath brought upon it (Rom 8:19-23).

Ver. 5. "And every plant of the field before it was in the earth,
and every herb of the field before it grew."

Thus it was in the first creation; they therefore became neither
herbs nor trees, by the course of nature, but by the creation of
God. And even so it is in the new creation, men spring not up by
nature to be saints: No, not in the church of God, but first they
are created in Christ Jesus, and made meet to be partakers of the
benefit, and then planted in the church of God; "planted," I say,
as plants before prepared. Indeed hypocrites, and formal professors,
may spring up in the church, by virtue of her forms, and outward
services, as thorns and thistles spring up in the earth, by virtue
of her moisture and heartiness. But these are but the fruits of
the curse, and are determined to be burned at last in the fire:
"Every plant [saith Christ] which my heavenly Father hath not
planted, shall be rooted up" (Matt 15:13; Heb 6:8).[5]

"For the Lord God had not caused it to rain upon the earth." This
is the reason that they came not up by nature first, but were
first created, then planted, then made to grow. So the reason why
men by nature grow not in the church, is, because the Lord doth not
cause it to rain upon them, they still abiding and doing according
to the course of this world; but he plants them in his house by
the mighty power of his word and Spirit, by which they are created
saints, and then they afterwards grow in grace, and in the knowledge
of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. "And there was not a man to
till the ground." It seems by this there was a kind of necessity
why God should make man, yea, a multitude of men; for otherwise he
had made what before he made in vain; that is, his end in making
so glorious a creature as this world, which was to shew forth his
glory by, had been void, and without effect; for although it was
glorious, as it came out of the hand of God; yet it was not of
power so to preserve itself, but would, without men to look after
and dress it, be turned into a wilderness.

Thus it is with the world of men, if there was not the second
Adam to plough them and sow them, they could none of them become
saints; No, not the elect themselves; because the means are
determined, as well as the end.

By this we may likewise see what a woeful condition that people is
in, that have no ministers of the word of the gospel: "My people
perish, [are destroyed] for lack of knowledge" (Hosea 4:6): And
again, "Where there is no vision, the people perish" (Pro 29:18).
Pray therefore to the Lord of the harvest, that he would send out
his ploughers to plough, and his labourers into his harvest.

Ver. 6. "But there went up a mist from the earth, and watered the
whole face of the ground."

Although as yet there was no ploughman nor rain, yet a mist arose
from the earth; so where there is not the word of the gospel, there
is yet sufficiency of light, to teach men how to govern themselves
in civil and natural society. But this is only "a mist," men cannot
gospelly grow by this; therefore, as in the next verse, of necessity
man must be formed.

But again, I have sometimes thought by this mist, might be held
forth that nourishment men had by the doctrine of faith, before
the gospel was divulged by Moses, the prophets, or Christ, &c.
for before these, that nourishment the church received, was but
slender and short, even as short as the nourishing of the mist is
to sober and moderate showers of rain; to which both the law and
the gospel is compared.

Again, I have also sometimes thought, that by this mist might be
typified those excellent proverbs and holy sayings of the men of
old, before there was a written word; for it cannot be but the
godly did contain in proverbs, and certain sayings, the doctrine
of salvation hereafter, and of good living here [see Romans 2:14];
of which we have a touch in Genesis, but more at large by that
blessed book of Job; which book, in my opinion, is a holy collection
of those proverbs and sayings of the ancients, occasioned by the
temptation of that good man. But whatever this mist did signify (in
other men's judgment) certain it is, it was for present necessity,
till a man should be made to till the ground, and the fruits
thereof watered with "the bottles of heaven": Which, so far as I
see yet, most aptly presents us with some of all these.

Ver. 7. "And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground,"
&c. In the creation of man, God began with his outside; but in the
work of regeneration, he first begins within, at the heart. He made
him; that is, his body, of the dust of the ground; but he abides
a lifeless lump, till the Lord puts forth a second act. "And [he]
breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a
living soul." Now he lives, now he acts: so it is in the kingdom of
Christ, no man can be a living soul in that kingdom by his first
creation, he must have life "breathed" into him, life and spirit
from Jesus Christ (John 20:22).

Now therefore is Adam a type, yet but an earthly one, of things
more high and heavenly; "And as we have borne the image of the
earthy, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly" (1 Cor 15:49).

Ver. 8. "And the Lord God planted a garden eastward in Eden, and
there he put the man whom he had formed."

"And the Lord God planted a garden." Thus the Holy Ghost speaks
clearer and clearer; for now he presents the church to us under the
similitude of a garden, which is taken out of the wide and open
field, and inclosed; "A garden inclosed is my sister, my spouse";
a garden inclosed, "a spring shut up, a fountain sealed" (Cant
4:12); and there he put the man whom he had formed. An excellent
type of the presence of Christ with his church (Rev 1:12,13).

Ver. 9. "And out of the ground made the Lord God to grow every
tree that is pleasant to the sight," &c.

These trees, and their pleasurableness, do shew us the beauty of
the truly godly, whom the Lord hath beautified with salvation. And
hence it is said, the glory of Lebanon, of Sharon, and of Carmel,
is given to the church: that is, she is more beautified with gifts
and graces than can by types and shadows be expressed. "The tree
of life also in the midst of the garden, and the tree of knowledge
of good and evil."

This "tree of life," was another type of Christ, as the bread and
healing medicine of the church, that stands "in the midst of the
paradise of God" (Rev 2:7; 22:2).

The tree of the knowledge of good and evil, was a type of the law,
or covenant of works, as the sequel of the story clearly manifesteth;
for had not Adam eaten thereof, he had enjoyed for ever his first
blessedness. As Moses saith, "It shall be our righteousness, if
we observe to do all these commandments before the Lord our God,
as he hath commanded us" (Deu 6:25). But both Adam and we have
touched, that is, broken the boughs and fruit of this tree, and
therefore now for ever, by the law, no man can stand just before
God (Gal 2:16).

Ver. 10. "And a river went out of Eden to water the garden; and
from thence it was parted, and became into four heads."

This river while it abided in Eden, in the garden, it was the
river of God; that is, serviceable to the trees and fruit of the
garden, and was herein a type of those watering ministers that
water the plants of the Lord. But observe, when it had passed the
garden, had gotten without the bound of the garden, from thence
it was parted, and became into four heads; from thence it was
transformed, or turned into another manner of thing: it now became
into four heads; a type of the four great monarchies of the world,
of which Babylon, though the first in order of being, yet the last
in a gospel or mysterious sense. The fourth is the river Euphrates,
that which was the face of the kingdom of Babel of old. Hence
note, That how eminent and serviceable soever men are while they
abide in the garden of Eden, THE CHURCH; yet when they come out
from thence, they evilly seek the great things of the world: one
is for compassing the whole land of Havilah, where is gold; another
is for compassing this, a third that, and a fourth another thing,
according as you see these four heads did. Observe again, That
while men abide in the church of God, there is not by them a
seeking after the monarchies of this world; but when they depart
from thence, then they seek and strive to be heads; as that cursed
monster the pope, forsaking the garden of God, became in a manner
the prince of all the earth: Of whom Tyrus mentioned by Ezekiel,
was a very lively type, "Thou hast been in Eden, the garden of
God; every precious-stone, [that is, doctrine,] was thy covering;
as the sardius, topaz, diamond," &c., "till iniquity was found
in thee" (Eze 28:13-18); till thou leftest thy station, and place
appointed of God, and then thou wast cast as profane out of the
mountain of God, yea, though a covering cherub. See it again in
Cain, who while he continued in the church, he was a busy sacrificer,
as busy as Abel his brother; but when he left off to fear the
Lord, and had bloodily butchered his holy brother, then he seeks
to be a head, or monarch; then he goeth and buildeth a city to
preserve his name and posterity for ever (Gen 4:17).

Ver. 15. "And the Lord God took the man, and put him into the
garden of Eden, to dress it and to keep it."

In this also Adam was a figure of our Lord Jesus Christ, as pastor
and chief bishop of his church. "I the Lord, [saith Christ,] do
keep it; I will water it every moment, I will keep it night and
day" (Isa 27:3).

"And the Lord God took the man." No man taketh this honour upon
him, but he that is called of God, as was Aaron. Blessed is he also
that can say as the prophet Amos; "And the Lord took me [said he]
as I followed the flock, and the Lord said unto me, Go, prophesy
unto my people Israel" (Amos 7:15).

"To dress it and to keep it." He that is not dressed, is not kept:
That is a sad judgment, That which dieth, let it die; That which
is diseased, let it not be dressed, let it die of that disease. By
dressing therefore I understand, pruning, manuring and the like,
which the dresser of the vineyard was commanded to do, without
which all is overrun with briers and nettles, and is fit for
nothing but cursing, and to be burned (Luke 13:6-9; Pro 24:30-34;
Heb 6:7,8).

"And the Lord commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the
garden thou mayest freely eat" (v 16).

It is God's word that giveth us power to eat, to drink, and do other
our works, and without the word we may do nothing. The command
gave Adam leave: "Every creature of God is good, and nothing to be
refused, if it be received with thanksgiving; for it is sanctified
by the word of God [by the command of the word, and by receiving
of it according to the limits thereof,] and prayer" (1 Tim 4:4,5).

Ver. 17. "But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou
shalt not eat of it." I said before, What God's word prohibits, we
must take care to shun.

This "tree of knowledge," as I said before, was a type of the covenant
of works, the which had not Adam touched, (for by touching it he
broke that covenant,) he then had lived ever, but touching it he
dies (Gen 3:3).

Adam going into the garden under these conditions and penalties,
was therein a type of the humiliation of Christ; who at his coming
into the world, was made under the law, under its command and
penalty, even as other men, but without sin (Gal 4:4,5).

"For in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die."

"For in the day." Adam lived to God no longer than while he kept
himself from eating forbidden fruit; in that very day he died;
first a spiritual death in his soul; his body also was then made
capable of mortality, and all diseases, which two great impediments
in time brought him down to dust again.

Ver. 18. "And the Lord God said, It is not good that man should be
alone; I will make him an help meet for him."

By these words, Adam's state, even in innocency, seems to crave
for help; wherefore it is manifest that that state is short of that
we attain by the resurrection from the dead; yea, for as much as
his need required earthly help, it is apparent his condition was
not heavenly; "The first man is of the earth, earthy: the second
man is the Lord from heaven" (1 Cor 15:47). Adam in his first
estate was not spiritual: "That was not first which is spiritual,
but that which is natural; and afterwards that which is spiritual"
(v 46). Wherefore those that think it enough to attain to the state
of Adam in innocency, think it sufficient to be mere naturalists;
think themselves well, without being made spiritual: yea, let
me add, they think it safe standing by a covenant of works; they
think themselves happy, though not concerned in a covenant of
grace; they think they know enough, though ignorant of a mediator,
and count they have no need of the intercession of Christ.[6]

Adam stood by a covenant of works: Adam's kingdom was an earthly
paradise; Adam's excellency was, that he had not need of a Saviour;
and Adam's knowledge was ignorance of Jesus Christ: Adam in his
greatest glory, wanted earthly comforts; Adam in his innocency,
was a mere natural man.

Ver. 19. "And out of the ground the Lord God formed every beast
of the field, and every fowl of the air."

This proveth further what I said at first, That in the first chaos
was contained all that was made upon the earth.

"And brought them unto Adam, to see what he would call them: and
whatsoever Adam called every living creature, that was the name
thereof."

In this Adam was a lively type of the Lord Christ's sovereign and
glorious power over all flesh: "Thou hast given him power over all
flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast
given him" (John 17:2).

"And brought them unto Adam to see what he would call them."

So Christ nameth the world; whom he will he calleth saints; and
whom he will he calleth the world, "ungodly," "serpents," "vipers,"
and the like. "I pray for them, I pray not for the world" (John
17:9).

"And whatsoever Adam called every living creature, that was the name
thereof." Even as Christ passes sentence, so shall their judgment
be.

Ver. 20. "And Adam gave names to all cattle, and to the fowl of
the air, and to every beast of the field." So Christ judgeth of
angels, devils, and men.

"But for Adam, there was not found an help meet for him." All
the glory of this world, had not Adam had a wife, could not have
completed this man's blessedness; he would yet have been wanting:
so all the glory of heaven, considering Christ as mediator, could
not, without his church, have made him up complete. The church,
I say, "which is his body, the fulness of him that filleth all in
all."

Ver. 21, 22. "And the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon
Adam, and he slept: and he took one of his ribs, and closed up the
flesh instead thereof; and the rib which the Lord God had taken
from man, made he a woman, and brought her unto the man."

In these words we find an help provided for Adam; also whence it
came. The help was a wife; she came out of his side; she was taken
thence while Adam slept. A blessed figure of a further mystery.
Adam's wife was a type of the church of Christ; for that she was
taken out of his side, it signifies we are flesh of Christ's flesh,
and bone of Christ's bone (Eph 5:30). And in that she was taken
thence while Adam slept, it signifies, the church is Christ's, by
virtue of his death and blood: "Feed the church of God, which he
hath purchased with is own blood" (Acts 20:28).

"And he brought her to the man." That is, And God brought her to
the man. By which he clearly intimates, That as the church is the
workmanship of God, and the purchase of the blood of Christ; so
yet she cannot come to Christ, unless brought to him of God: "No
man can come to me [saith Christ] except the Father which hath
sent me, draw him" (John 6:44).

Ver. 23. "And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones, and flesh
of my flesh: she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out
of Man."

In that Adam doth thus acknowledge his wife to be bone and flesh
of his substance, it shews us, that Christ will acknowledge those
that are his: "He is not ashamed to call them brethren, saying, I
will declare thy name unto my brethren, in the midst of the church
will I sing praise unto thee" (Heb 2:11,12).

And observe it, He said, "She is bone of my bone," &c. before that
God, that brought her to him; intimating, that Christ both owns
us now at his Father's right hand, and will not be ashamed of us,
even in the day of judgment (Matt 10:33; Luke 12:8).

Ver. 24. "Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother,
and shall cleave unto his wife: and they shall be one flesh."

This ought to be truly performed in our married estate in this
world. But here endeth not the mystery.

"Therefore shall a man leave his father." Thus did Christ when he
came into the world to save sinners: He came forth from the Father;
"I came forth from the Father, and am come into the world" (John
16:28).

"Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother." The Jewish
church may, in a mystical sense, be called the mother of Christ;
for she was indeed God's wife, and of her came his Son Jesus Christ:
yet his mother he left and forsook, to be joined to his Gentile
spouse, which is now his only wife.

Ver. 25. "And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were
not ashamed."

No sin, no shame: Let men stand where God hath set them, and there
is no cause of shame, though they be exposed in outward appearance
to never so much contempt.

"And they were both naked." Apparel is the fruits of sin; wherefore
let such as pride themselves therein, remember, that they cover one
shame with another. But let them that are truly godly have their
apparel modest and sober, and with shamefacedness put them on,
remembering always the first cause of our covering our nakedness,
was the sin and shame of our first parents (1 Peter 3:3).

CHAPTER III.

Ver. 1. "Now the serpent was more subtil than any beast of the
field which the Lord God had made. And he said unto the woman,
Yea, hath God said, Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden?"

In these words we have an entrance of the first great spiritual
conflict that was fought between the devil and flesh; and it is
worth the observing, how the enemy attempted, engaged, and overcame
the world (2 Cor 11:3).

1. He tempts by means; he appeareth not in his own shape and hue,
but assumeth the body of one of the creatures, the body of the
serpent, and so begins the combat. And from hence it is, that in
after ages he is spoken of under the name of that creature, "the
dragon, that old serpent which is the devil, and Satan" (Rev 20:2);
because, as the Holy Ghost would have us beware of the devil, so
of the means and engines which he useth; for where one is overcome
by his own fearful appearance, ten thousand are overcome by the
means and engines that he useth.

2. "The serpent was more subtil." The devil, in his attempts after
our destruction, maketh use of the most suitable means. The serpent
was more subtil, therefore the cunning of the devil was least of
all discerned. Had he made use of some of the most foolish of the
creatures, Adam had luckily started back, for he knew the nature
of all the creatures, and gave them names accordingly; wherefore
the serpent, Adam knew, was subtil, therefore Satan useth him,
thereby to catch this goodly creature. Hereby the devil least
appeared; and least appearing, the temptation soonest took the
tinder.[7]

"Now the serpent was more subtil." More subtil. Hence the devil
is called, "the serpent with heads," [with great cunning;] "the
crooked serpent," [with knotty objections;] "the piercing serpent,"
[for he often wounds;] and his ways are called "devices," "temptations,"
"delusions," "wiles," "power," and "the gates of hell"; because
of their mighty prevalency. This is he that undertook our first
parents.

But how did he undertake them?

He labours to make them question the simplicity of the word of
God, bearing Adam's wife in hand, that there must needs be some
meaning that palliates the text; Hath God said ye shall not eat of
the tree? Which interrogatory suggested them with a strong doubt
that this word would not appear a truth, if you compare it with
the 4th verse.

Hence learn, that so long as we retain the simplicity of the word,
we have Satan at the end of the staff; for unless we give way to
a doubt about that, about the truth and simplicity of it, he gets
no ground upon us. And hence the apostle says, He feared lest by
some means, as the serpent beguiled Eve through his subtilty, so
our minds should be corrupted from the simplicity that is in Christ
(2 Cor 11:3); that is, lest our minds should be drawn off from the
simplicity of the word of the gospel by some devilish and delusive
arguments; For mark, Satan doth not first of all deny, but makes a
doubt upon the word, whether it is to be taken in this or another
sense; and so first corrupting the mind with a doubt about the
simplicity of the true sense, he after brings them to a denial
thereof; "Hath God said, Ye shall not eat of every tree of the
garden?"

Ver. 2. "And the woman said unto the serpent, We may eat of the
fruit of the trees of the garden."

"And the woman said." Indeed, the question was put to her, but the
command was not so immediately delivered to her: "The Lord God
commanded the man" (2:16). This therefore I reckon a great fault
in the woman, an usurpation, to undertake so mighty an adversary,
when she was not the principal that was concerned therein; nay,
when her husband who was more able than she, was at hand, to whom
also the law was given as chief. But for this act, I think it is,
that they are now commanded silence, and also commanded to learn
of their husbands (1 Cor 14:34,35): A command that is necessary
enough for that simple and weak sex:[8] Though they see it was
by them that sin came into the world, yet how hardly are some of
them to this day dissuaded from attempting unwarrantably to meddle
with potent enemies, about the great and weighty matters that
concern eternity (1 Tim 2:11-15).

Hence note, That often they who are least able, will first adventure
to put in their head to defend that, from whence they return with
shame.

"And the woman said unto the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of
the trees of the garden."

This was her prologue to her defence, but that also for which she
had no warrant. In time of temptation, it is our wisdom and duty
to keep close to the word, that prohibits and forbids the sin;
and not to reason with Satan, of how far our outward and worldly
privileges go, especially of those privileges that border upon the
temptation, as she here did: We may eat of all but one. By this
she goeth to the outside of her liberty, and sets herself upon the
brink of the danger. Christ might have told the tempter, when he
assaulted him, That he could have made stones bread; and that he
could have descended from the pinnacle of the temple, as afterwards
he did (Matt 4:3-7; Luke 4); but that would have admitted of other
questions. Wherefore he chooseth to lay aside such needless and
unwarrantable reasonings, and resisteth him with a direct word of
God, most pertinent to quash the tempter, and also to preserve
himself in the way. To go to the outside of privileges, especially
when tempted of the devil, is often, if not always very dangerous
and hazardous.

By these words therefore, in mine opinion, she spoke at this time
too much in favour of the flesh; and made way for what after came
upon her, We may eat of all but one.

Ver. 3. "But of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of
the garden, God hath said, Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall
ye touch it, lest ye die."

Now, too late, she urgeth that which should have been her only stay
and weapon; to wit, the express word of God; That she should, if
she would have disputed with the tempter, have urged at the first
that only, and have thought of nothing else. Thus did the Lord
himself: but she looking first into those worthy privileges which
God had given her, and dilating delightfully of them before the
devil, she lost the dread of the command from off her heart, and
retained now but the notion of it: which Satan perceiving, and
taking heart therefrom to make his best advantage, he now adds to
his former forged doubt, a plain and flat denial, "Ye shall not
surely die."

Ver. 4. "And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely
die."

When people dally with the devil, and sit too near their outward
advantages; when they are tempted to break the command of God, it
is usual for them, even by setting their hearts upon things that
in themselves are honest and lawful, to fall into temptation: To
see a piece of ground, to prove a yoke of oxen, to marry a wife, are
doubtless lawful things; but upon the borders of these privileges
lay the temptation of the devil; therefore by the love of these,
which yet were lawful in themselves, the devil hardened the heart,
and so at last made way for, and perfectly produced in them, flatly
to deny, as then, to embrace the words of God's salvation (Matt
22:5; Luke 14:16-20). The like befel our first mother; wherefore
though at last she freely objected the word; yet because before
she had so much reasoned to the pleasing of the flesh, she lost
the dread and savour of the command, and having nought but notion
left, she found not wherewith to rebuke so plain a lie of the devil,
but hearkened to his further reasoning.

"Ye shall not surely die." Not surely; in the word there is some
slight meaning, of which you need not be so afraid. And besides,

Ver. 5. "God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof, then your
eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and
evil."

In these words two privileges are asserted: one, That their eyes
should be opened; the other, That they should be as gods, knowing
good and evil. The first is very desirable, and was not at all
abridged by them; the second, as to their knowing good and evil,
was absolutely forbidden; because they could not attain to the
knowledge of that which was evil, but by transgressing, or by
eating of that forbidden tree.

Hence observe, That it is usual with the devil, in his tempting
of poor creatures, to put a good and bad together, that by shew
of the good, the tempted might be drawn to do that which in truth
is evil. Thus he served Saul; he spared the best of the herd and
flock, under pretence of sacrificing to God, and so transgressed
the plain command (1 Sam 15:20-22). But this the apostle saw was
dangerous, and therefore censureth such, as in a state of condemnation
(Rom 3:8). Thus he served Adam; he put the desirableness of
sight, and a plain transgression of God's law together, that by
the loveliness of the one, they might the easier be brought to
do the other. O poor Eve! Do we wonder at thy folly! Doubtless we
had done as bad with half the argument of thy temptation.

"Ye shall be as gods." In these words he attempts to beget in them
a desire to be greater than God had made them (1 Tim 3:6). He knew
this was a likely way, for by this means he fell himself; for being
puffed up with pride, they left their own estate, or habitation,
and so became devils, and were tumbled down to hell, where they are
"reserved in everlasting chains, under darkness, unto the judgment
of the great day" (Jude 6).

"Ye shall be as gods." When souls have begun to hearken to the
tempter, that hearkening hath made way for, and given way to so
much darkness of mind, and hardness of heart, that now they can
listen to anything: as to hear God charged with folly, "Ye shall
not surely die"; as to hear him made the author of ignorance, and
that he delights to have it so, by seeking by a command to prohibit
them from knowing what they could; for God doth know, that in the
day ye eat thereof, then your eyes shall be opened; and therefore
he forbids to touch it.

"Ye shall be as gods." Here is also a pretence of holiness, which
he knew they were prone unto; "Ye shall be as gods," as knowing
and perfect as God. Oh! Thousands are, even to this day, by such
temptations overcome! Thus he wraps his temptations up in such
kind of words and suggestions as will carry it either way. But mark
his holiness, or the way that he prescribes for holiness; it is,
if not point blank against, yet without and besides the word, not
by doing what God commands, and abhorring what he forbids, but by
following the delusion of the devil, and their own roving fancies;
as Eve here does.

Ver. 6. "And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food,
and that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to
make one wise, she took of the fruit thereof," &c.

This verse presents us with the use that Eve made of the reasonings
of the serpent; and that was, to take them into consideration; not
by the word of God, but as her flesh and blood did sense them:
A way very dangerous and devouring to the soul, from which Paul
fled, as from the devil himself: "Immediately I conferred not with
flesh and blood" (Gal 1:16). Wherefore, pausing upon them, they
entangled her as with a threefold cord. 1. "The lust of the flesh";
she saw it was good for food. 2. "The lust of the eye"; she saw
it was pleasant to the eye. 3. "The pride of life"; a tree to be
desired, to make one wise (1 John 2:16). Being taken, I say, with
these three snares of the adversary, which are not of the Father,
but of the world, and the devil the prince thereof, forthwith she
falls before him: "And when the woman saw" this, "she took of the
fruit thereof, and did eat."

"And when the woman saw." This seeing, as I said, is to be
understood of her considering what Satan presented to her, and of
her sensing or tasting of his doctrine; not by the word, which
ought to be the touch stone of all, but by and according to her
own natural reason without it. Now this makes her forget that
very command that but now she had urged against the tempter: This
makes her also to consent to that very reason, as an inducement
to transgress; which, because it was the nature of the tree, was
by God suggested as a reason why they should forbear; it was the
tree of the knowledge of good and evil, therefore they should not
touch it; it was the tree, that would by touching it, make them
know good and evil; therefore she toucheth, and also eateth thereof.
See therefore what specious pretences the devil, and those that
are under the power of temptation, will have to transgress the
command of God. That which God makes a reason of the prohibition,
even that the devil will make a reason of their transgression.

God commands to self-denial, but the world makes that a reason of
their standing off from the very grace of God in the gospel. God
also commands, That we be sober, chaste, humble, just, and the
like; but the devil, and carnal hearts, make these very things the
argument that keeps sinners from the word of salvation. Or rather
take it thus; God forbids wickedness, because it is delightful to
the flesh, and draws the heart from God, but therefore carnal men
love wickedness and sin: Therefore they go on in sin, and "therefore
they say unto God, Depart from us, for we desire not the knowledge
of thy ways" (Job 21:14; 22:15-17).

She "did eat, and gave also unto her husband with her, and he did
eat."

The great design of the devil, as he supposed, was now accomplished;
for he had both in the snare, both the man and his wife, and in
them, the whole world that should be after. And indeed the chief
design of Satan was at the head at first, only he made the weakest
the conveyance for his mischief. Hence note again, That Satan by
tempting one, may chiefly intend the destruction of another. By
tempting the wife, he may aim at the destruction of the husband;
by tempting the father, he may design the destruction of the
children; and by tempting the king, he may design the ruin of the
subjects. Even as in the case of David: "Satan stood up against
Israel, and provoked David to number the people." He had a mind
to destroy seventy thousand, therefore he tempted David to sin (1
Chron 21:1).

She gave also to her husband, and he did eat. Sin seldom or never
terminates in one person; but the pernicious example of one, doth
animate and embolden another; or thus, the beholding of evil in
another, doth often allure a stander-by. Adam was the looker-on, he
was not in the action as from the serpent: "Adam was not deceived,"
that is, by having to do with the devil, "but the woman, the woman
being deceived, was in the transgression" (1 Tim 2:14). This should
exhort all men that they take heed of so much as beholding evil
done by others, lest also they should be allured. When Israel
went into Canaan, God did command them not so much as to ask, How
those nations served their gods? lest by so doing, Satan should
get an advantage of their minds, to incline them to do the like
(Deu 12:30). Evil acts, as well as evil words, will eat as doth
a canker. This then is the reason of that evil-favouredness that
you see attending some men's lives and professions; they have been
corrupted, as Adam was, either by evil words or bad examples, even
till the very face of their lives and professions are disfigured
as with the pox or canker (2 Tim 2:17).

Thus have we led you through that woeful tragedy that was acted
between the woman and the serpent; and have also shewed, how it
happened that the serpent went away as victor.

1. The woman admitted of a doubt about the truth of the word that
forbad her to eat; for unbelief was the first sin that entered the
world.

2. She preferred the privileges of the flesh, before the argument
to self-denial; by which means her heart became hardened, and grew
senseless of the dread and terror of the words of God.

3. She took Satan's arguments into consideration, and sensed,[9]
or tasted them; not by the word of God, but her own natural, or
rather sore-deluded fancy.

4. She had a mind to gratify the lusts of the flesh, the lusts of
the eyes, and the pride of life.

Now to speak of the evil consequences that followed this sinful
act: That is not in the wisdom of mortal man to do; partly, because
we know but in part even the evil and destructive nature of sin;
and partly, because much of the evil that will follow this action,
is yet to be committed by persons unborn. Yet enough might be said
to astonish the heavens, and to make them horribly afraid (Jer
2:12). 1. By this act of these two, the whole world became guilty
of condemnation and eternal judgment (Rom 5). 2. By this came all
the blindness, atheism, ignorance of God, enmity and malice against
him, pride, covetousness, adultery, idolatry, and implacableness,
&c., that is found in all the world. By this, I say, came all the
wars, blood, treachery, tyranny, persecution, with all manner of
rapine and outrage that is found among the sons of men. 3. Besides,
all the plagues, judgments, and evils that befal us in this world,
with those everlasting burnings that will swallow up millions for
ever and ever; all and every whit of these came into the world as
the portion of mankind, for that first transgression of our first
parents.

Ver. 7. "And the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that
they were naked; and they sewed fig-leaves together, and made
themselves aprons."

That their eyes might be opened, was one branch of the temptation,
and one of the reasons that prevailed with the woman to forsake the
word of God: But she little thought of seeing after this manner,
or such things as now she was made to behold. She expected some
sweet and pleasant sight, that might tickle and delight her deluded
fancy; but behold, sin and the wrath of God appears, to the shaking
of their hearts! And thus, even to this very day, doth the devil
delude the world: His temptations are gilded with some sweet and
fine pretences; either they shall be wiser, richer, more in favour,
live merrier, fare better, or something; and that they shall see
it, if they will but obey the devil: Which the fools easily are,
by these and such like things, allured to do. But behold, when
their eyes are opened, instead of seeing what the devil falsely
told them, they see themselves involved in sin, made guilty of
the breach of God's command, and subject to the wrath of God.[10]

"And they knew that they were naked." Not only naked of outward
clothing, but even destitute of righteousness; they had lost their
innocency, their uprightness, and sinless vail, and had made
themselves polluted creatures, both in their hearts and in their
flesh; this is nakedness indeed; such a kind of nakedness as Aaron
made Israel naked with, when he set up his idol calf for them to
worship: "For Aaron had made them naked unto their shame" (Exo
32:25). Naked before the justice of the law.

"And they knew that they were naked." And they knew it: Why, did
they not know it before? The text says, They were naked, and were
not ashamed. O! they stood not naked before God! they stood not
without righteousness, or uprightness before him, and therefore
were not ashamed, but now they knew they were naked as to that.

"And they sewed fig-leaves together, and made themselves aprons."
A fit resemblance of what is the inclination of awakened men,
who are yet but natural! They neither think of Christ, or of the
mercy of God in him for pardon, but presently they betake themselves
to their own fig-leaves, to their own inventions, or to the
righteousness of the law, and look for healing from means which
God did never provide for cure. "When Ephraim saw his sickness, and
Judah saw his wound, then went Ephraim to the Assyrian" (Hosea
5:13). Not to God, and sent to King Jarib, not to Christ, yet
could they not heal him, nor cure him of his wound.

"And made themselves aprons." Not coats, as God did afterwards. A
carnal man thinks himself sufficiently clothed with righteousness,
if the nakedness which he sees, can be but covered from his own
sight: As if God also did see that and only that which they have
a sight of by the light of nature; and as if because fig-leaves
would hide their nakedness from their sight, that therefore they
would hide it from the sight of God. But alas! No man, without
the help of another, can bring all his nakedness to the sight of
his own eye; much is undiscovered to him, that may yet lie open
and bare to a stander-by: So it is with the men that stand without
Christ before God, at best they see but some of their nakedness,
to wit, their most gross and worst faults, and therefore they seek
to cover them; which when they have hid from their own sight, they
think them hid also from the sight of God. Thus did Adam, he saw
his own most shameful parts, and therefore them he covered: They
made themselves aprons, or things to gird about them, not to cover
them all over withal. No man by all his own doings can hide all
his own nakedness from the sight of the justice of God, and yet,
but in vain, as busy as Adam to do it.

"And they sewed fig-leaves together, and made themselves aprons."
Fig-leaves! A poor apron, but it was the best they could get.
But was that a sufficient shelter against either thorn or thistle?
Or was it possible but that after a while these fig-leaves should
have become rotten, and turned to dung? So will it be with all
man's own righteousness which is of the law; Paul saw it so, and
therefore counted it but loss and dung, that he might win Christ,
and be found in him (Phil 3:7,8).

Ver. 8. "And they heard the voice of the Lord God walking in the
garden in the cool of the day: and Adam and his wife hid themselves
from the presence of the Lord God, among the trees of the garden."

"And they heard the voice of the Lord God." This voice was not to
be understood according, as if it was the effect of a word; as
when we speak, the sound remains with a noise for some time after;
but by voice here, we are to understand the Lord Christ himself;
wherefore this voice is said to walk, not to sound only: "They
heard the voice of the Lord God walking." This voice John calls the
word, the word that was with the Father before he made the world,
and that at this very time was heard to walk in the garden of Adam:
Therefore John also saith, this voice was in the beginning; that
is, in the garden with Adam, at the beginning of his conversion,
as well as of the beginning of the world (John 1:1).

"And they heard the voice of the Lord God walking in the garden in
the cool of the day." The gospel of it is, in the season of grace;
for by the cool of the day, he here means, in the patience,
gentleness, goodness and mercy of the gospel; and it is opposed to
the heat, fire, and severity of the law.

"And Adam and his wife hid themselves." Hence observe, That a
man's own righteousness will not fortify his conscience from fear
and terror, when God begins to come near to him to judgment. Why
did Adam hide himself, but because, as he said, he was naked? But
how could he be naked, when before he had made himself an apron?
O! the approach of God consumed and burnt off his apron! Though
his apron would keep him from the sight of a bird, yet it would
not from the eye of the incorruptible God.

Let therefore all self-righteous men beware, for however they at
present please themselves with the worthiness of their glorious
fig-leaves; yet when God shall come to deal with them for sin,
assuredly they will find themselves naked.[11]

"And they hid themselves." A man in a natural state, cannot abide
the presence of God; yea, though a righteous man. Adam, though
adorned with his fig-leaves, flies.

Observe again, That a self-righteous man, a man of the law, takes
grace and mercy for his greatest enemy. This is apparent from the
carriage of the Pharisees to Jesus Christ, who because they were
wedded to the works of their own righteousness, therefore they hated,
persecuted, condemned, and crucified the Saviour of the world. As
here in the text, though the voice of the Lord God walked in the
garden in the cool of the day, in the time of grace and love, yet
how Adam with his fig-leaves flies before him.

"And Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the
Lord God." These latter words are spoken, not to persuade us that
men can hide themselves from God, but that Adam, and those that
are his by nature, will seek to do it, because they do not know him
aright. These words therefore further shew us what a bitter thing
sin is to the soul; it is only for hiding work, sometimes under
its fig-leaves, sometimes among the trees of the garden. O what
a shaking, starting, timorous evil conscience, is a sinful and
guilty conscience! especially when 'tis but a little awakened, it
could run its head into every hole, first by one fancy, then by
another; for the power and goodness of a man's own righteousness,
cannot withstand or answer the demands of the justice of God, and
his holy law.

"And Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the
Lord God, among the trees of the garden." If you take the trees
in a mystical sense as sometimes they may be taken (Eze 31:8-11);
then take them here to signify, or to be a type of the saints
of God, and then the gospel of it is, That carnal men, when they
are indeed awakened, and roused out of their foolish fig-leaf
righteousness; then they would be glad of some shelter with them
that are saved and justified freely by grace, as they in the
Gospel of Matthew; "Give us of your oil; for our lamps are gone
out" (Matt 25:8). And again, The man without the wedding garment
had crowded himself among the wedding guests: Had hid themselves
among the trees of the garden (Matt 22:11).

Ver. 9. "And the Lord God called unto Adam, and said unto him,
Where art thou?"

Adam having eaten of the forbidden tree, doth now fleet his
station, is gone to another than where God left him. Wherefore, if
God will find Adam, he must now look him where he had hid himself.
And indeed so he does with "Adam, where art thou?"

"And the Lord God called," &c. Here begins the conversion of Adam,
from his sinful state, to God again. But mark, it begins not at
Adam's calling upon God, but at God calling upon him: "And the
Lord God called unto Adam." Wherefore, by these words, we are to
understand the beginning of Adam's conversion. And indeed, grace
hath gone the same way with the elect, from that time to this day.
Thus he dealt with Abraham, Isaac and Jacob; he called them from
their native country, the country of their kindred. And hence it
is, that, especially in the New Testament, the saints are said
to be the Called; "Called of God," and "Called of Jesus Christ."
And hence again it is that Calling is by Paul made the first
demonstration of election, and that saints are admonished to prove
their election by their calling; for as Adam was in a lost, miserable
and perishing condition, until God called him out of those holes
into which sin had driven him: so we do lie where sin and the
devil hath laid us, until by the word of God we are called to the
fellowship of his Son Jesus Christ.

By these words therefore we have the beginning of the discovery
of effectual calling or conversion; "And the Lord God called": In
which call observe three things,

1. God called so that Adam heard him. And so it is in the conversion
of the New Testament saints, as Paul says, "If ye have heard him,
and have been taught by him, as the truth is in Jesus" (Eph 4:21).
That therefore is one discovery of effectual calling, the sinner
is made to HEAR him, even to hear him distinctly, singling out the
very person, calling, "Adam, Where art thou?" "Saul, Saul, why
persecutest thou me?" I have called thee by thy name, thou art
mine. As he also said to Moses, "I know thee by name, and thou
hast also found grace in my sight" (Exo 33:12).

2. God called so, as to fasten sin upon his conscience, and as to
force a confession from him of his naked and shameful state.

3. God called so, as to make him tremble under, and be afraid of
the judgment of God.

"And the Lord God called unto Adam, and said unto him, Where art
thou?" Indeed, Where art thou must of necessity be forcibly urged
to every man on whose soul God doth work effectual conversion;
for until the person is awakened, as to the state and condition
he is in, he will not desire, nay, will not endure to be turned
to God; but when in truth they are made to see what condition sin
hath brought them to, namely, that it hath laid them under the
power of sin, the tyranny of the devil, the strength of death,
and the curse of God by his holy law; then is mercy sweet.

"Where art thou?" God knew where he was, but foolish Adam thought
otherwise; he thought to hide himself from the presence of the
Lord, but the Lord found him out. Indeed, deluded sinners think
that they can hide themselves and sins from God. "How doth God
know," say they, "Can he judge through the thick cloud?" (Job 22:13).
But such shall know he sees them; they shall know it, either to
their correction, or to their condemnation. "Though they dig into
hell," saith God, "thence shall mine hand take them; though they
climb up to heaven, thence will I bring them down: And though they
hide themselves in the top of Carmel, I will search and take them
out thence," &c. (Amos 9:2,3).[12] "Can any hide himself in secret
places that I shall not see him, saith the Lord? Do not I fill
heaven and earth? saith the Lord" (Jer 23:24).

Ver. 10. "And he said, I heard thy voice in the garden, and I was
afraid, because I was naked; and I hid myself."

This then was the cause of his flying, he heard the voice of God:
A wicked and evil conscience saith, every thing is to it as the
messenger of death and destruction; for, as was said before, "the
voice of the Lord walked in the garden in the cool of the day," in
the time of grace and mercy. But it mattereth not whether he came
with grace or vengeance; guilt was in Adam's heart, therefore he
could not endure the presence of God: He "that doeth evil hateth
the light" (John 3:20). And again, "The wicked flee when no man
pursueth" (Pro 28:1). Cain thought all that met him, would seek
his blood and life.

"I heard thy voice." Something by the word of God was spoken,
that shook the heart of this poor creature; something of justice
and holiness, even before they fell into this communication: for
observe it, Adam went forthwith from the tree of knowledge of good
and evil a convinced man, first to his fig-leaves, but they would
not do; therefore he seeks to be hid among the trees. And observe
again, That the insufficiency of fig-leaves were discovered by
this voice of the Lord God, that at this time walked in the garden:
"I heard thy voice in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was
naked; and I hid myself." So then, there was a first and second
voice which Adam heard; the first he ran away from, "I heard thy
voice, and hid myself." The second was this, wherein they commune
each with other. The first therefore was the word of justice,
severity, and of the vengeance of God; like that in the 19th of
Exodus, from the pronouncing of which, a trembling, and almost
death, did seize six hundred thousand persons.

"I heard thy voice in the garden." It is a word from without that
doth it. While Adam listened to his own heart, he thought fig-leaves
a sufficient remedy, but the voice that walked in the garden shook
him out of all such fancies: "I heard thy voice in the garden, and
I was afraid, because I was naked; and I hid myself."

Ver. 11. "And he said, Who told thee that thou wast naked? Hast thou
eaten of the tree, whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldest
not eat?"

"Who told thee?" This, as I said before, supposeth a third person,
a preacher, and that was the Son of God; the voice of the Lord
God that walked in the garden.

"Hast thou eaten of the tree?" That is, If thou hast been shewed
thy nakedness, thou hast indeed sinned; for the voice of the Lord
God will not charge guilt, but where and when a law hath been
transgressed. God therefore, by these words, driveth Adam to the
point, either to confess or deny the truth of the case. If he
confess, then he concludes himself under judgment; if he deny, then
he addeth to his sin: Therefore he neither denieth nor confesseth,
but so as he may lessen and extenuate his sin.

Ver. 12. "And the man said, The woman whom thou gavest to be with
me, she gave me of the tree, and I did eat."

He had endeavoured with fig-leaves to hide his transgressions
before, but that being found too scanty and short, he now trieth
what he can do with arguments. Indeed he acknowledgeth that he
did eat of the tree of which he was forbidden; but mark where he
layeth the reason: Not in any infection which was centred in him
by reason of his listening to the discourse which was between the
woman and the serpent; but because God had given him a woman to
be with him: "The woman whom thou gavest to be with me, she gave
me of the tree." The woman was given for an help, not an hindrance;
but Satan often maketh that to become our snare, which God hath
given us as a blessing. Adam therefore here mixeth truth with
falsehood. It is true, he was beguiled by the woman; but she was
not intended of God, as he would insinuate, to the end she might
be a trap unto him. Here therefore Adam sought to lessen and
palliate his offence, as man by nature is prone to do; for if God
will needs charge them with the guilt of sin for the breach of
the law, they will lay the fault upon anything, even upon God's
ordinance, as Adam here doth, rather than they will honestly fall
under the guilt, and so the judgment of the law for guilt. It is a
rare thing, and it argueth great knowledge of God, and also hope
in his mercy, when men shall heartily acknowledge their iniquities,
as is evident in the case of David: "Wash me thoroughly from
mine iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin. For I acknowledge my
transgressions: and my sin is ever before me" (Psa 51:2,3). But
his knowledge is not at first in young converts; therefore when
God begins to awaken, they begin, as sleepy men, to creep further
under their carnal covering; which yet is too short to hide them,
and too narrow to cover their shame (Isa 28:20).

"The woman whom thou gavest to be with me, she gave me of the
tree." Although, as I said, this sinner seeks to hide, or at least
to lessen his sin, by laying the cause upon the woman, the gift
of God; yet it argueth that his heart was now filled with shame
and confusion of face, for that he had broken God's command; for
indeed it is the nature of guilt, however men may in appearance
ruffle under it, and set the best leg before, for their vindication;
yet inwardly to make them blush and fail before their accuser.
Indeed their inward shame is the cause of their excuse; even as
Aaron, when he had made the golden calf, could not for shame of
heart confess in plainness of speech the truth of the fact to his
brother Moses, but faulteringly: They gave me their gold, saith
he, and "I cast it into the fire, and there came out this calf"
(Exo 32:24). "And there came out this calf"; a pitiful fumbling
speech: The Holy Ghost saith, Aaron had made them naked; "had
made them naked unto their shame," for he, as also Adam, should,
being chief and lord in their place, have stoutly resisted the
folly and sin which was to them propounded; and not as persons of
a womanish spirit, have listened to wicked proposals.[13]

Ver. 13. "And the Lord God said unto the woman, What is this that
thou hast done?" &c.,

Forasmuch as Adam did acknowledge his sin, though with much weakness
and infirmity, God accepts thereof; and now applieth himself to
the woman, whom Satan had used as his engine to undo the world.

Hence observe, That when God sets to search out sin, he will
follow it from the seduced to the seducer, even till he comes to
the rise and first author thereof, as in the following words may
more clearly appear. Not that he excuseth or acquitteth the seduced,
because the seducer was the first cause, as some do vainly imagine;
but to lay all under guilt who are concerned therein: the woman
was concerned as a principal, therefore he taketh her to examination.

"And the Lord God said unto the woman, What is this that thou hast
done?" What is this? God seems to speak as if he were astonished
at the inundation of evil which the woman by her sin had overflowed
the world withal: "What is this that thou hast done!" Thou hast
undone thyself, thou hast undone thy husband, thou hast undone all
the world; yea, thou hast brought a curse upon the whole creation,
with an overplus of evils, plagues, and distresses.

"What is this that thou hast done!" Thou hast defiled thy body and
soul, thou hast disabled the whole world from serving God; yea,
moreover, thou hast let in the devil at the door of thy heart, and
hast also made him the prince of the world. "What is this that thou
hast done!" Ah! little, little do sinners know what they have done,
when they have transgressed the law of the Lord. I say, they little
know what death, what plagues, what curse, yea, what hell they, by
so doing, have prepared for themselves.

"What is this that thou hast done!" God therefore, by these words,
would fasten upon the woman's heart a deep sense of the evil of her
doings. And indeed, for the soul to be brought into a deep sense
of its sin, to cry out before God, Ah! what have I done! it is with
them the first step towards conversion: "Acknowledge thy iniquity
[saith God] that thou hast transgressed against me" (Jer 3:13).
And again, "If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to
forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness"
(1 John 1:9). The want of this is the cause of that obdurate and
lasting hardness that continueth to possess so many thousands
of sinners, they cry not out before God, What have I done? but
foolishly they rush into, and continue in sin, "till their iniquity
be found to be hateful," yea, their persons, because of their sin.

"What is this that thou hast done?" By this interrogatory the Lord
also implieth an admonition to the woman, to plead for herself,
as he also did to her husband. He also makes way for the working
of his bowels towards her, which (as will be shewn anon) he
flatly denies to the serpent, the devil: I say he made way for
the woman to plead for, or bemoan herself; an evident token that
he was unwilling to cast her away for her sin: "I have surely
heard Ephraim bemoaning himself;--I will surely have mercy upon
him, saith the Lord" (Jer 31:18-20). Again, by these words, he
made way for the working or yearning of his own bowels over her;
for when we begin to cry out of our miscarriages, and to bewail
and bemoan our condition because of sin, forthwith the bowels of
God begin to sound, and to move towards his distressed creature,
as by the place before alleged appears. "I have surely heard
Ephraim bemoaning himself;--therefore my bowels are troubled for
him: I will surely have mercy upon him, saith the Lord." See also
the 11th and 14th chapters of Hosea.

"And the woman said, the serpent beguiled me and I did eat." A
poor excuse, but an heart affecting one; for many times want of wit
and cunning to defend ourselves, doth affect and turn the heart
of a stander-by to pity us. And thus, as I think, it was with
the woman; she had to do with one that was too cunning for her,
with one that snapt her by his subtilty or wiles; which also the
woman most simply confesses, even to the provoking of God to take
vengeance for her.

Ver. 14. "And the Lord God said unto the serpent, Because thou
hast done this, thou art cursed above all cattle, and above every
beast of the field."

The serpent was the author of the evil; therefore the thunder
rolls till it comes over him, the hot burning thunder-bolt falls
upon him.

The Lord, you see, doth not with the serpent as with the man
and his wife; to wit, minister occasion to commune with him, but
directly pronounceth him cursed above all, "above every beast of the
field." This sheweth us, that as concerning the angels that fell,
with them God is at eternal enmity, reserving them in everlasting
chains under darkness. Cursed art thou: By these words, I say,
they are prevented of a plea for ever, and also excluded a share
in the fruits of the Messiah which should afterwards be born into
the world (Heb 2:2).

"Because thou hast done this, cursed art thou." "Because thou hast
done this": Not as though he was blessed before; for had he not
before been wicked, he had not attempted so wicked a design. The
meaning then is, That either by this deed the devil did aggravate
his misery, and make himself the faster to hang in the everlasting
chains under darkness; or else by this he is manifested to us to
be indeed a cursed creature.

Further, "Because thou hast done this," may also signify how great
complacency and content God took in Adam and his wife while they
continued without transgression; But how much against his mind and
workmanship this wicked work was. 1. Against his mind; for sin so
sets itself against the nature of God, that, if possible, it would
annihilate and turn him into nothing, it being in its nature point
blank against him. 2. It is against his workmanship; for had not
the power of the Messias stept in, all had again been brought to
confusion, and worse than nothing: as Christ himself expresses it:
"The earth, and all the inhabitants thereof, are dissolved: I bear
up the pillars of it" (Psa 75:3). And again, "He upholdeth all
things by the word of his power" (Heb 1:3).

Besides, this being done, man, notwithstanding the grace of God,
and the merits of Jesus Christ, doth yet live a miserable life in
this world; for albeit that Christ hath most certainly secured
the elect and chosen of God from perishing by what Satan hath
done; yet the very elect themselves are, by reason of the first
transgression, so infested and annoyed with inward filth, and so
assaulted still by the devil, and his vassals the proper children
of hell, that they groan unutterably under their burthen; yea,
all creatures, "the whole creation groaneth and travaileth in pain
together until now" (Rom 8:22). And that most principally upon the
very account of this first sin of Adam; it must needs be therefore,
this being so high an affront to the divine majesty, and so
directly destructive to the work of his hands; and the aim of the
devil most principally also at the most excellent of his creation
(for man was created in God's own image) that he should hereat
be so highly offended, had they not sinned at all before, to bind
them over for this very fact to the pains of the eternal judgment
of God.

Ver. 15. "And I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and
between thy seed and her seed; it shall bruise thy head, and thou
shalt bruise his heel."

The woman may, in this place, be taken either really or figuratively;
if really and naturally, then the threatening is also true, as
to the very natures of the creatures here under consideration,
to wit, the serpent and the woman, and so all that come of human
race; for we find that so great an antipathy is between all such
deadly beasts, as serpents and human creatures, that they abiding
in their own natures, it is not possible they should ever be
reconciled: "I will put enmity": I will put it. This enmity then
was not infused in creation, but afterwards; and that as a punishment
for the abuse of the subtlety of the serpent; for before the fall,
and before the serpent was assumed by the fallen angels, they were,
being God's creatures, "good," as the rest in their kind; neither
was there any jarring or violence put between them; but after the
serpent was become the devil's vizor, then was an enmity begot
between them.

"I will put enmity between thee and the serpent." If by woman,
we here understand the church, (but then we must understand the
devil, not the natural serpent simply,) then also the threatening
is most true; for between the church of God, and the devil, from
the beginning of the world, hath been maintained most mighty wars
and conflicts, to which there is not a like in all the blood shed
on the earth. Yea, here there cannot be a reconciliation, (the
enmity is still maintained by God): The reason is, because their
natural dispositions and inclinations, together with their ends and
purposes, are most repugnant each to other, even full as much as
good and evil, righteousness and sin, God's glory, and an endeavour
after his utter extirpation.

Indeed, Satan hath tried many ways to be at amity with the church;
not because he loves her holiness, but because he hates her welfare,
(wherefore such amity must only be dissembled,) and that he might
bring about his enterprise, he sometimes hath allured with the
dainty delicates of this world, the lusts of the flesh, of the eyes,
and the pride of life: This being fruitless, he hath attempted to
entangle and bewitch her with his glorious appearance, as an angel
of light; and to that end hath made his ministers as the ministers
of righteousness, preaching up righteousness, and contending for
a divine and holy worship (2 Cor 11:12-15): but this failing also,
he hath taken in hand at length to fright her into friendship
with him, by stirring up the hellish rage of tyrants to threaten
and molest her; by finding out strange inventions to torment and
afflict her children; by making many bloody examples of her own
bowels, before her eyes, if by that means he might at last obtain
his purpose: But behold! all hath been in vain, there can be no
reconciliation. And why, but because God himself maintains the
enmity?

And this is the reason why the endeavours of all the princes and
potentates of the earth, that have through ignorance or malice
managed his design against the church, have fallen to the ground,
and been of none effect.

God hath maintained the enmity: doubtless the mighty wonder, that
their laws cannot be obeyed;[14] I mean their laws and statutes,
which by the suggestion of the prince of this world they have made
against the church: But if they understood but this one sentence,
they might a little perceive the reason. God hath put enmity
between the devil and the woman; between that old serpent called,
The Devil and Satan, and the holy, and beloved, and espoused wife
of Christ.

"I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed
and her seed." The seeds here are the children of both, but that
of the woman, especially Christ (Gal 3:16). "God sent forth his
Son made of a woman" (Gal 4:4). Whether you take it literally or
figuratively; for in a mystery the church is the mother of Jesus
Christ, though naturally, or according to His flesh, He was born of
the virgin Mary, and proceeded from her womb: But take it either
way, the enmity hath been maintained, and most mightily did shew
itself against the whole kingdom of the devil, and death, and
hell; by the undertaking, engaging, and war which the Son of God
did maintain against them, from his conception, to his death and
exaltation to the right hand of the Father, as is prophesied of,
and promised in the text, "It shall bruise thy head."

"It shall bruise thy head." By head, we are to understand the
whole power, subtilty, and destroying nature of the devil; for as
in the head of the serpent lieth his power, subtilty, and poisonous
nature; so in sin, death, hell, and the wisdom of the flesh, lieth
the very strength of the devil himself. Take away sin then, and
death is not hurtful: "The sting of death is sin": And take away
the condemning power of the law, and sin doth cease to be charged,
or to have any more hurt in it, so as to destroy the soul: "The
strength of sin is the law" (1 Cor 15:56). Wherefore, the seed,
Jesus Christ, in his bruising the head of the serpent, must take
away sin, abolish death, and conquer the power of the grave. But
how must this be done? Why, he must remove the curse, which makes
sin intolerable, and death destructive. But how must he take away
the curse? Why, by taking upon Him "flesh," as we (John 1:14); by
being made "under the law," as we (Gal 4:4); by being made "to be
sin for us" (2 Cor 5:21), and by being "made a curse for us" (Gal
3:10-13). He standing therefore in our room, under the law and
the justice of God, did both bear, and overcome the curse, and so
did bruise the power of the devil.

"It shall bruise thy head." To bruise is more than to break;
he shall quash thy head to death; so he also quashed the heel of
Christ; which would, had not his eternal power and Godhead sustained,
have caused that he had perished for ever.

"And thou shalt bruise his heel." By these words, a necessity was
laid upon Jesus Christ to assume our flesh, to engage the devil
therein; and also because of the curse that was due to us for sin,
that he might indeed deliver us therefore; even for awhile to fall
before this curse, and to die that death that the curse inflicteth:
"Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a
curse for us." Thus therefore did Satan, that is, by the fruits
and effects of sin, bruise, or kill, the flesh of Christ: But he
being God, as the Father, it was not possible he should be overcome.
Therefore his head remaineth untouched. A man's life lieth not
in his heel, but in his head and heart; but the Godhead being the
head and heart of the manhood, it was not possible Satan should
meddle with that; he only could bruise his heel; which yet by the
power of the Godhead of this eternal Son of the Father, was raised
up again from the dead: "He was delivered for our offences, and
was raised again for our justification" (Rom 4:25).

In these words therefore the Lord God gave Adam a promise, That
notwithstanding Satan had so far brought his design to pass, as to
cause them by falling from the command, to lay themselves open to
the justice and wrath of God; yet his enterprise by grace, should
be made of none effect. As if the Lord had said, "Adam, thou seest
how the devil hath overcome thee; how he, by thy consenting to his
temptation, hath made thee a subject of death and hell: but though
he hath by this means made thee a spectacle of misery, even an
heir of death and damnation: yet I am God, and thy sins have been
against me. Now because I have grace and mercy, I will therefore
design thy recovery. But how shall I bring it to pass? Why I will
give my Son out of my bosom, who shall in your room, and in your
nature encounter this adversary, and overcome him. But how? Why,
by fulfilling my law, and by answering the penalties thereof.
He shall bring in a righteousness which shall be "everlasting,"
by which I will justify you from sin, and the curse of God due
thereto: But this work will make him smart, he must be made "a man
of sorrows," for upon him will I lay your iniquities (Isa 53:6);
Satan shall bruise his heel."

Ver. 16. "Unto the woman he said, I will greatly multiply thy
sorrow and thy conception; in sorrow[15] shalt thou bring forth
children; and thy desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule
over thee."

"I will greatly multiply thy sorrow," &c. This is true, whether
you respect the woman according to the letter of the text, or as
she was a figure of the church; for in both senses their sorrows
for sin are great, and multiplied upon them: The whole heap of the
female sex know the first,[16] the church only knows the second.

"In sorrow shalt thou bring forth children." The more fruitful,
the more afflicted is the church in this world; because the rage
of hell, and the enmity of the world, are by her righteousness
set on fire so much the more.

But again: Forasmuch as the promise is made before this judgment
of God for sin is threatened, we must count these afflictions not
as coming from the hand of God in a way of vengeance, for want of
satisfaction for the breach of the law; but to shew and keep us in
mind of his holiness, that henceforth we should not, as at first
through ignorance, so now from notions of grace and mercy, presume
to continue in sin.

I might add, That by these words it is manifest, that a promise of
mercy and forgiveness of sin, and great afflictions and rebukes
for the same, may and shall attend the same soul: "I will greatly
multiply thy sorrow," comes after the promise of grace.

"And thy desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over
thee." Doubtless the woman was, in her first creation, made in
subordination to her husband, and ought to have been under obedience
to him: Wherefore, still that had remained a duty, had they never
transgressed the commandment of God; but observe, the duty is
here again not only enjoined, and imposed, but that as the fruit
of the woman's sin; wherefore, that duty that before she might do
as her natural right by creation, she must now do as the fruits
of her disobedience to God. Women therefore, whenever they would
perk it and lord it over their husbands, ought to remember, that
both by creation and transgression they are made to be in subjection
to their own husbands. This conclusion makes Paul himself: "Let
[saith he] the woman learn in silence with all subjection. But I
suffer not a woman to teach, nor to usurp authority over the man,
but to be in silence; for Adam was first formed, then Eve; and
Adam was not deceived, but the woman being deceived, was in the
transgression" (1 Tim 2:11-14).

Ver. 17. "And unto Adam he said, Because thou hast hearkened
unto the voice of thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree of which I
commanded thee, saying, Thou shalt not eat of it: cursed is the
ground for thy sake, in sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days
of thy life."

God having laid his censure upon the woman, he now proceedeth and
cometh to her husband, and also layeth his judgment on him: The
judgment is, "Cursed is the ground for thy sake," and in sorrow
thou shalt eat thereof. The causes of this judgment are, First,
For that "he hearkened to his wife": And also, "For that he had
eaten of the tree."

"Because thou hast hearkened to thy wife." Why? Because therein
he left his station and headship, the condition which God had
appointed him, and gave way to his wife to assume it, contrary to
the order of creation, of her relation, and of her sex; for God
had made Adam lord and chief, who ought to have taught his wife,
and not to have become her scholar.

Hence note, That the man that suffereth his wife to take his place,
hath already transgressed the order of God.[17]

"Because thou hast hearkened to the voice," &c. Wicked women, such
as Eve was now, if hearkened unto, are "the snares of death" to
their husbands; for, because they are weaker built, and because the
devil doth easier fasten with them than with men, therefore they
are more prone to vanity and all mis-orders in the matters of God,
than they; [the men] and so, if hearkened unto, more dangerous
upon many accounts: "Did not Solomon king of Israel sin by these
things? yet among many nations was there no king like him, who was
beloved of his God, nevertheless even him did outlandish [wicked]
women cause to sin" (Neh 13:26). "But there was none like unto
Ahab, which did sell himself to work wickedness in the sight of
the Lord, whom Jezebel his wife stirred up" (1 Kings 21:25).

Hence note further, That if it be thus dangerous for a man to
hearken to a wicked wife, how dangerous is it for any to hearken
unto wicked whores, who will seldom yield up themselves to the lusts
of beastly men, but on condition they will answer their ungodly
purposes! What mischief by these things hath come upon souls,
countries and kingdoms, will here be too tedious to relate.

"Because thou hast hearkened to the voice of thy wife, and hast
eaten of the tree." That is, From the hand of thy wife; for it was
she that gave him to eat: "Therefore," &c. Although the scripture
doth lay a great blot upon women, and cautioneth man to beware of
these fantastical and unstable spirits, yet it limiteth man in his
censure: She is only then to be rejected and rebuked, when she doth
things unworthy her place and calling. Such a thing may happen, as
that the woman, not the man, may be in the right, (I mean, when
both are godly,) but ordinarily it is otherwise (Gen 21:12).
Therefore the conclusion is, Let God's word judge between the man
and his wife, as it ought to have done between Adam and his, and
neither of both will do amiss; but contrariwise, they will walk
in all the commandments of God without fault (Luke 1:6).

"Therefore cursed be the ground for thy sake." Behold what arguments
are thrust into every corner, thereby to make man remember his
sin; for all the toil of man, all the barrenness of the ground,
and all the fruitlessness after all; What is it but the fruits of
sin? Let not us then find fault with the weed, with the hotness,
coldness, or barrenness of the soil; but by seeing these things,
remember our sin, Cursed be the ground "for thy sake"; for this God
makes our "heaven as iron," and our "earth as brass" (Exo 26:19).
"The Lord shall make the rain of thy land powder and dust; from
heaven shall it come down upon thee, until thou be destroyed" (Deu
28:20-24).

"In sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life." He then
is much deceived, who thinks to fill his body with the delicates
of this world, and not therewith to drink the cruel venom of asps:
Yea, "He shall suck the poison of asps, the viper's tongue shall
slay him" (Job 20:16). The reason is, because he that shall give
up himself to the lusts and pleasures of this life, he contracts
guilt, because he hath sinned; which guilt will curdle all his
pleasures, and make the sweetest of them deadly as poison.

"In sorrow shalt thou eat." Even thou that hast received the promise
of forgiveness: How then can they do it with pleasure, who eat,
and forget the Lord? (Pro 30:9; 31:5).

Again, Let not the sorrows, crosses, and afflictions, that attend
the godly in the things of this life, weaken their faith in the
promise of grace, and forgiveness of sins; for such things may
befal the dearest Christian.

Ver. 18. "Thorns also and thistles shall it bring forth to thee;
and thou shalt eat the herb of the field."

This shews us (as I also hinted before), That the thorns and thistles
of the ground, are but as the excrements thereof; and the fruits
of sin, and the curse for sin. This world, as it dropt from the
fingers of God, was far more glorious than it is now: Now it is
loaden with a burden of corruption, thorns, thistles, and other
annoyances, which Adam knew none of in the days of his innocency.
None therefore ever saw this world, as it was in its first creation,
but only Adam and his wife; neither shall any ever see it, until
the manifestation of the children of God: that is, until the
redemption or resurrection of the saints: but then it shall be
delivered from the bondage of corruption, into the glorious liberty
of the children of God.

"And thou shalt eat the herb of the field." These words are for
his comfort, under all the sorrow sin should bring upon him; "Thou
shalt eat the herb": The herb was a type of the gosepl-comforts
which the destroying angels were forbidden to smite (Rev 7:3). Of
these medicinal and healing herbs therefore Adam and his seed are
admitted to eat, that their soul may be replenished in the midst
of their sorrow.

Ver. 19. "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread, till thou
return unto the ground; for out of it wast thou taken: for dust
thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return."

"In the sweat of thy face." This is true, whether literally or
allegorically understood: For as touching the things that pertain
to this life, as they become not ours without toil and labour; so
the spiritual comforts of the kingdom of heaven are not obtained
without travail and sweat: "Labour [saith Christ] for the bread
and meat which endureth to everlasting life" (John 6:27).

"In the sweat of thy face." Those that make conscience of walking
in the commandments of God, they shall be blessed with the bread of
life, when others shall be hunger-bit. That may also be mystically
applied, "On all hills that shall be digged with the mattock,
there shall not come thither the fear of briars and thorns; but
it shall be for the sending forth of oxen, and for the treading
of lesser cattle" (Isa 7:25). The meaning is, Where people are
diligent according to the word of God, especially in spiritual and
heavenly things, they shall be fat and flourishing, though sorrow
be mixed therewith: "When men are cast down: then thou shalt say,
there is lifting up; and he shall save the humble person" (Job
22:29).

"Till thou return to the ground." A Christian should not leave off
sweating labour so long as he is above the ground; even until he
returneth thither, he ought to be diligent in the way and worship
of God. Jacob, when sick, would worship God, though so weak as
not able to do it, without leaning upon the top of his staff: A
blessed example for the diligent, and reproof for those that are
slothful (Heb 11:21).

"For out of it wast thou taken." That is, out of the ground. Behold
how the Lord doth mix his doctrine! Now he tells him of his sin,
then he promiseth to give him a Saviour, then again he shews him
the fruits of his sin, and immediately after the comforts of the
promise; yet again, he would have him remember that he is but a
mortal creature, not to live here for ever; neither made of silver
nor gold, but even of a clod of dust: "For dust thou art." Observe
therefore, that in the midst of all our enjoyments, God would have
us consider our frame, that we may know how frail we are.

"For out of it was thou taken." It is hard for us to believe it,
though we daily see it is the way even of all the earth, to return
thither again: "For dust thou art, and to dust shalt thou return."

Whether this was spoken to Adam, as a judgment, or a mercy, or
both, is not hard to determine, (this first premised, that Adam
had received the promise;) for as it was the fruit of sin, so a
judgment and a token of God's displeasure; "for the wages of sin
is death" (Rom 6:23). But as it is made by the wisdom of God, a
prevention of further wickedness, and a conveyance through faith
in Christ, to a more perfect enjoyment of God in the heavens; so
it is a mercy and blessing of God (Isa 57:1,2); For thus "to die
is gain." Wherefore thus we may praise the dead, that are already
dead, more than the living, which are yet alive (Eccl 4:2). This
made Paul desire to depart; for he knew that through death was
the way to have more perfect sight of, and more close and higher
communion with the Father, and the Son, and the Spirit in the
heavens (2 Cor 5:6). I have a desire to depart, and be with Christ,
which is far better (Phil 1:21-23). Thus therefore those things
that in their own nature are the proper fruits and wages of sin,
may yet through the wisdom of God be turned about for our good
(Jer 24:5); but let not this embolden to sin, but rather minister
occasion to us to magnify the wisdom of God (Rom 8:28).

Ver. 20. "And Adam called his wife's name Eve; because she was the
mother of all living."

By this act Adam returneth to his first station and authority
in which God had placed him, from which he fell when he became a
scholar to his wife; for to name the creatures, was in Adam a note
of sovereignty and power: This he attained to, as an effect of his
receiving the promise; for before the promise is received, man
cannot serve God in his station, because as he wanteth the power
of will, so also a good understanding; but when he hath received
the promise, he hath also received the Holy Ghost, which giveth to
the godly to know and do his duty in his station: "The spiritual"
man discerneth, and so "judgeth all things"; but he is not discerned
nor judged of any (1 Cor 2:15).

And he called his wife's name Eve, or Hevah: Because she gave
life to, or was the first mother of all mankind. This then admits
of two positions. First, That the world was created when Adam
was created. And, Secondly, That there were none of the sons of
men in the world before Adam, as some have not only vainly, but
irreligiously and blasphemously suggested. "Eve is the mother of
all living": Not a man therefore that is the son of man, but had
his being since the woman was made.

Ver. 21. "Unto Adam also and to his wife did the Lord God make
coats of skins, and clothed them."

By this action the Lord God did preach to Adam, and to his wife,
the meaning of that promise that you read of in verse 15. Namely,
That by the means of Jesus Christ, God himself would provide
a sufficient clothing for those that accept of his grace by the
gospel: The coats here, being a type of that blessed and durable
righteousness.

"The Lord God made the coats." Not Adam now, because now he is
received into a covenant of grace with God: Indeed before he entered
into this covenant, he made his own clothing, such as it was, but
that could not cover his nakedness; but now the Lord will make
them: And "unto Adam also and to his wife did the Lord God make
coats": "Their righteousness is of me, saith the Lord" (Isa 54:17).
Of me, that is, of my providing, of my performing. And this is
the name whereby he shall be called, THE LORD OUR RIGHTEOUSNESS"
(Jer 23:6).

"He made them coats, and clothed them." As the righteousness by
which a sinner stands just in the sight of God from the curse, is
a righteousness of God's providing; so also it is of his putting
on. No man can put on the righteousness of Christ, otherwise
than by God's imputation: if God reckon it ours then it is ours
indeed; but if he refuseth to shew that mercy, who can impute that
righteousness to me? Blessed are they to whom the Lord imputeth
righteousness (Rom 4). Cursed then must they needs be to whom God
hath not imputed the righteousness of his Son. "The Lord clothed
them," according to that of Paul, "Christ is made unto us of God
wisdom and righteousness," &c. (1 Cor 1:30). And of that God who
hath made him thus to us, even of him are we in Christ Jesus.

Did the Lord God make coats of skins. The coats were made of the
skins of beasts, of the skins of the slain, which were slain either
for food only, or for sacrifice also: This being so, the effects
of that promise mentioned before were by this action the more
clearly expounded unto Adam; to wit, That Christ, "in the fulness
of time," should be born of a woman clothed with flesh; and as so
considered, should be made a curse, and so die that cursed death
which by sin we had brought upon ourselves; the effects and fruits
of which should to us be durable clothing; that is, "Everlasting
righteousness" (Dan 9:24). Ver. 22, 23. "And the Lord God said,
Behold, the man is become as one of us, to know good and evil: and
now, [therefore] lest he put forth his hand, and take also of the
tree of life, and eat, and live for ever: therefore the Lord God
sent him forth from the garden of Eden, to till the ground from
whence he was taken."

"Behold the man is become as one of us." These words respect the
temptation of the devil; the argument that prevailed with Adam;
and the fruits of their consenting: And therefore I understand them
as spoken ironically, or in derision to Adam. As if God had said,
"Now Adam, you see what a god you are become: The serpent told you
"you should be as gods," as one that was infinite in wisdom. But
behold, your godhead is horrible wickedness, even pollution of body
and soul by sin. A thing you little thought of when you pleased
yourself with the thought of that high attainment; and now if
you be not prevented, you will proceed from evil to evil; for
notwithstanding I have made promise of sending a Saviour, you will,
through the pollution of your mind, forget and set at nought my
promise; and seek life and salvation by that tree of life which
was never intended for the justification of sinners; therefore I
will turn you out of the garden, "to till the ground whence thou
wast taken.""

1. Hence observe, That it often falls out, after the promised
blessing is come, that God yet maketh us to possess our former
sins, not that the guilt thereof might be charged to condemnation,
but that remembering of them, we might blush before God, and be
the more effectually driven to a continual embracing of the mercy
promised.

2. Observe again, That as God would have us to remember our former
sins, so he would not that we should feed upon ought but the very
mercy promised. We must not rest in shadowish sacraments, as the
typical tree of life, but must remember it is our duty to live by
faith in the promised seed.

3. Observe also, That even our outward and temporal employments,
if they be lawful and honest, are so ordered of God, as that we
may gather some heavenly mystery from them: "To till the ground
from whence he was taken": Mysteriously intimating two things to
Adam. (1.) That seeing he was of the earth, he stood in as much
need to be ordered and dressed by God, in order to his future
happiness, as the ground, in order to its thrift and fruitfulness.
(2.) Again, Seeing he was taken from the ground, he is neither
God, nor angel, but a poor earthen vessel, such as God can easily
knock in pieces, and cause to return to the ground again. These
things therefore Adam was to learn from his calling, that he might
neither think too highly of himself, nor forget to live by faith,
and depending on the Lord God, to be blessed of him.

Ver. 24. "So he drove out the man; and he placed at the east of the
garden of Eden Cherubims, and a flaming sword which turned every
way, to keep the way of the tree of life."

"So he drove out the man." Adam was loth to forsake this garden of
Eden, because there was the tree of life. The promise will hardly
satisfy, where faith is weak and low. Had this man with great
faith received and retained the gospel preached before, he would
not have so hankered after a shadow; but the conscience being
awakened, and faith low and weak there, because faith wants the
flower or bloom of assurance, the ceremonial or moral law doth
with ease engender bondage.

"And he placed at the east of the garden of Eden Cherubims, and
a flaming sword." This shows the truth of what I said before; to
wit, That Adam was loth to forsake the garden, loth to forsake
his doing of something; but God sets a shaking sword against him,
a sword to keep that way, or to prevent that Adam should have life
by eating of the tree of life.

Observe, This tree of life, though lawful for Adam to feed on before
he had transgressed, yet now is wholly forbidden him; intimating,
that that which would have nourished him before he brake the law,
will now avail him nothing as to life before the justice of God:
the tree of life might have maintained his life before he sinned;
but having done that, he hath no ways now but to live by faith in
the promise; which that he might effectually do, God takes from
him the use of all other things, he driveth him out of the garden,
and sets to keep him from the tree of life, "Cherubims, and a
flaming sword."

"And he placed at the east of the garden Cherubims, and a flaming
sword." These cherubims are one sort of the angels of God, at this
time made ministers of justice, shaking the flaming sword of God's
severity against Adam for sin, threatening to cut him off thereby,
if he ever return by the way that he went.

We read also, that the law was delivered to Israel from Sinai, by
the hand and disposition of angels (Acts 7); the gospel, only by
the Son himself (Heb 1:2).

To keep the way. Hence the apostle implicitly concludes it a way,
that is, to death and damnation; by opposing another against it,
even the new and living one; a new, not this the old; a living
one, not this the dead one (Heb 10). For, for that the cherubims
are here placed with a flaming, shaking sword, to keep the tree
of life, it is evident that death is threatened to him that shall
at any time attempt to come at, or that seeks for life that way.

"A flaming sword, turning every way to keep," &c. This still shews
us, that man, though he hath already received the promise, is yet
exceeding prone to seek life by another way than free grace by
Jesus Christ; to wit, either by the law he hath broken, or by the
law and Christ together; and so though not directly, yet "as it
were by the works of the law" (Rom 9:32). But all is to no purpose,
they are every way prevented. For, forsake the simplicity of the
promise in the gospel, and thou shalt meet with the stroke of
the justice of God; for that flaming sword of his vengeance, it
turneth every way, and therefore will in every way lay wrath upon
thee, if thou seek life by ought but Christ.

CHAPTER IV. Ver. 1. "And Adam knew Eve his wife; and she conceived,
and bare Cain, and said, I have gotten a man from the Lord."

Now we are come to the generation of mankind. "Adam knew his wife":
A modest expression; and it should teach us, in all such matters
where things are discoursed of, that are either the fruits of
sin, or the proper effects of man's natural infirmities, there to
endeavour the use of such expressions, as neither to provide to
lust, nor infect us with evil and uncivil communication. "Adam
knew his wife"; Jacob, Samson, David, and others, are said to go
in unto them. So as to our natural infirmities of the stool, the
scripture expression is, "When thou goest abroad to ease thyself,
thou shalt turn again and cover that which cometh from thee":
Modest and bashful expressions, and such as become the godly,
being those that are furthest off of occasioning evil, and nearest
to an intimation, that such infirmities bespeak us infirm and
imperfect creatures.

"And she conceived and bare Cain." The first sprout of a disobedient
couple, a man in shape, but a devil in conditions. This is he that
is called elsewhere, The child "of that wicked one" (1 John 3:12).

"And she said, I have gotten a man from the Lord." If Eve by these
words did only ascribe the blessing of children to be the gift of
God, then she spake like a godly woman; but if she supposed that
this man Cain was indeed the seed promised, then it shows, that
she in this was also deceived, and was therein a figure of all
such as make false and strange delusions, signs of the mercy of
God towards them: The man she thought she had got from the Lord
as a mercy, and to be a Saviour, he proved a man of the devil, a
curse, and to be a destroyer.

Ver. 2. "And she again bare his brother Abel, And Abel was a keeper
of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground."

Observe here, That the good child is not the first-born, but Abel,
[a breath] (1 Cor 1:27,28). God often doth as Jacob did, even
cross hands, in bestowing blessings, giving that which is best to
him that is least esteemed: For Cain was the man in Eve's esteem;
she thought, when she had him, she had got an inheritance; but as
for Abel, he was little worth; by his name they showed how little
they set by him. It is so with the sincere to this day; they
bear not the name of glory with the world: Cain with them is the
profitable son; Abel is of no credit with them, neither see they
form or comeliness in him; he is the melancholy, or lowering child,
whose countenance spoileth the mirth of the world: "The heart of
the wise is in the house of mournings; but the heart of fools is
in the house of mirth" (Eccl 7:4).

"And Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the
ground." By this it seems yet further, that Cain was the man in
favour, even him that should, by his Father's intentions, have been
heir, and have enjoyed the inheritance: He was nurtured up in his
father's employment, but Abel was set in the lower rank.

It was also thus with Isaac and Jacob, Ishmael and Esau, being the
eldest, and those that by intention were to be heirs.

Now in the inheritance lay, of old, a great blessing: so that Esau in
losing his father's inheritance, lost also the blessing of grace,
and moreover the kingdom of heaven (Heb 12:16,17). Wherefore Cain
had by this the better of Abel, even as the Jews by their privileges
had the better of the Gentiles (Rom 3:1,2). But mark it, the blessing
of grace is not led by outward order, but by electing love: Where
the person then is under the blessing of election, be he the first
or the second son, the highest or lowest in the family, or whether
he be more or less loved of his friends, 'tis he that with Abel
hath the everlasting blessing.

Ver. 3. "And, in process of time, it came to pass that Cain brought
of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the Lord."

Mark here, That the devil can suffer his children, in outward
forms of worship, to be godly and righteous men: Cain, a limb of
the devil, and yet the first in order that presents himself and
his service to God.

Cain brought of the fruit of the ground, as of wheat, oil, honey,
or the like; which things were also clean and good. Hence it is
intimated, that his offering was excellent; and I conceive, not at
all, as to the matter itself, inferior to that of Abel's; for in
that it is said that Abel's was more excellent, it is not with
respect to the excellency of the matter or things with which they
sacrificed, but with respect to Abel's faith, which gave glory
and acceptableness to his offering with God, "By faith he offered
unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain" (Heb 11:4).

"And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of
the fat thereof" &c.

Abel, last in appearance, but in truth the first in grace; as
it also is at this day: Who do so flutter it out as our ruffling
formal worshippers? Alas! the good, the sincere and humble, they
seem to be least and last; but the conclusion of the tragedy will
make manifest that the first is last, and the last first; for the
many are but called, the few are chosen.

"And the Lord had respect unto Abel, and to his offering." Herein
are the true footsteps of grace discovered; to wit, the person must
be the first in favour with God, the person first, the performance
afterwards.

"And the Lord had respect to Abel." But how can God respect a
man, before he respect his offering? A man's gift (saith Solomon)
makes way for him: It should seem therefore that there lies no such
stress in the order of words, but that it might as well be read,
"The Lord had respect to Abel, because he respected his offering."

Answ. Not so: For though it be true among men, that the gift makes
way for the acceptance of the person, yet in the order of grace it
is after another manner; for if the person be not first accepted,
the offering must be abominable; for it is not a good work that
makes a good man, but a good man makes a good work. The fruit
doth not make a good tree, but "a good tree bringeth forth good
fruit." Make (saith Christ) the tree good, and his fruit good; or
the tree evil, and his fruit evil: Do men gather grapes of thorns,
or figs of thistles? Had Abel been a thorn, he had not brought forth
grapes; had he been a thistle, he had not brought forth figs. So
then, Abel's person must be first accepted, and after that his
works.

Object. But God accepteth no man while he remains a sinner, but
all men are sinners before they do good works, how then could the
person of Abel be accepted first?

Answ. Abel was JUST before he did offer sacrifice. Just, I say, in
the sight of God. This God witnessed by testifying of his gift: "By
faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain,
by which he obtained witness that he was righteous": That is, God
by accepting of the gift of Abel, did testify that Abel was a
righteous man; for we know God "heareth not sinners": "The prayers
of the wicked are an abomination unto God." But Abel was accepted,
therefore he was righteous first.

Hence observe, That a man must be righteous before he can do any
good work.

Quest. Righteous! "With what righteousness?"

Answ. With the righteousness of faith. And therefore it is said,
that Abel had faith before he offered sacrifice. "By faith he
offered" (Heb 11:4). Where faith is made to precede or go before
the work which by faith he offered unto God.

Quest. But are not good works the righteousness of faith?

Answ. They are the fruits of faith: As here in the case of Abel;
his faith produced an offering; but before he gave his offering,
his faith had made him righteous; for faith respects a promise of
grace, not a work of mine: Now the promise of grace, being this,
that the seed of the woman, which is Christ, should destroy
the power of the devil; by this Abel saw that it was Christ that
should abolish sin and death by himself, and bring in "everlasting
righteousness" for sinners. Thus believing, he had accepted of
Christ for righteousness, which because he had done, God in truth
proclaims him righteous, by accepting of his person and performances
when offered.

Abel then presented his person and offering, as shrouding both, by
faith, under the righteousness of Christ, which lay wrapped up in
the promise; but Cain stands upon his own legs, and so presents
his offering. Abel therefore is accepted, both his person and his
offering, while Cain remains accursed.

Ver. 5. "But unto Cain, and to his offering, he [the Lord] had not
respect. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell."

Mark: As first Abel's person is accepted, and then his offering;
so first Cain's person is rejected, and afterwards his offering:
For God seeth not sin in his own institutions, unless they be
defiled by them that worship him; and that they needs must, when
persons by[18] themselves offer sacrifice to God, because then
they want the righteousness of faith.

This then made the difference betwixt Abel and his brother; Abel
had faith, but Cain had none. Abel's faith covered him with Jesus
Christ, therefore he stood righteous in his person before God: This
being so, his offering was accepted, because it was the offering
of one that was righteous.

"But unto Cain, and to his offering, the Lord had not respect."
Hence note, That a Christless man is a wicked man, let him be never
so full of actions that be righteous; for righteous actions make
not a righteous man, the man himself must first be righteous.[19]

Wherefore, though Cain was the eldest, and first in the worship;
yet Abel was the wisest, and the most acceptable therein.

"And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell." From these
words it may be gathered, that Cain had some evident token from the
observation of God's carriage towards both himself and brother;
that his brother was smiled upon, but he rejected: He was wroth:
wroth with God, and wroth with his brother. And indeed, before
the world hate us, they must needs hate Jesus Christ: "It hated
me [saith he] before it hated you" (John 15:18). He was wroth:
and why? Wroth because his sacrifice was not accepted of God: And
yet the fault was not in the Lord, but Cain: He came not before
the Lord, as already made righteous with the righteousness of
Christ, which indeed had been doing well, but as a cursed wicked
wretch, he thought that by his own good works he must be just
before the Lord.

The difference therefore that was between these worshippers,
it lay not in that they worshipped divers gods, but in that they
worshipped the same God after a diverse manner: The one in faith,
the other without; the one as righteous, the other as wicked.

And even thus it is between us and our adversaries: We worship not
divers gods, but the same God in a diverse manner: We according
to faith; and they according to their OWN INVENTIONS.[20]

"And Cain was wroth." This further shows us the force of the law,
and the end of those that would be just by the same; namely, That
in conclusion they will quarrel with God; for when the soul in its
best performances, and acts of righteousness, shall yet be rejected
and cast off by God, it will fret and wrangle, and in its spirit
let fly against God. For thus it judgeth, That God is austere and
exacting; it hath done what it could to please him, and he is not
pleased therewith. This again offendeth God, and makes his justice
curse and condemn the soul. Condemn it, I say, for imagining that
the righteousness of a poor, sinful, wretched creature, should be
sufficient to appease eternal justice for sin. Thus the law worketh
wrath, because it always bindeth our transgression to us, and still
reckoneth us sinners, and accursed, when we have done our utmost
to answer and fulfil it (Rom 4:15).

"And his countenance fell." However, an hypocrite, while God
forbeareth to smite him, may triumph and joy in his goodness; yet
when God shall pronounce his judgment according as he approve of
his act, he needs must lower and fall in his countenance; for his
person and gift are rejected, and he still counted a sinner.

Ver. 6. "And the Lord said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth? and why
is thy countenance fallen?"

These words are applied to Cain, for a further conviction of his
state to be miserable. "Why art thou wroth?" Is it because I have
not accepted thy offering? This is without ground, thy person is
yet an abomination to me: Must I be made by thy gift, which is
polluted, for and by thy person, to justify thee as righteous? Thou
hast not yet done well. Wherefore, Cain had no cause to be wroth;
For God rejected only that which was sinful, as was both his person,
and gift for the sake thereof: Neither had he grounds to lift up
his looks on high, when he came to offer his sacrifice; because he
came not as a man in a justify'd state. But "there is a generation
that are pure in their ow eyes, and yet is not washed from their
filthiness. There is a generation,--O how lofty are their eyes!
and their eyelids are lifted up" (Pro 30:12,13). Such an one, or
the father of these, was Cain; he counted himself clean, and yet
was not washed; he lifted up his looks on high, before he was
changed from his iniquity.

Ver. 7. "If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted? and if
thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door. And unto thee shall
be his desire, and thou shalt rule over him." "If thou do well."
Why, is not worshipping of God, well-doing? It may, and may not,
even as the person that worships is found. If he be found righteous
at his coming to worship, and if he worship according to rule,
then he does well, then he is accepted of God; but if he be not
found righteous before, be you sure he cannot do well, let the
matter with which he worshippeth be wrong or right. "Who can bring
a clean thing out of an unclean?" (John 14:4). Let Cain be clean,
and his offering will be clean, because brought to God in a vessel
that is clean; but if Cain be unclean, all the holy things he
toucheth, or layeth up in his skirt, it is made unclean by the
uncleanness of his person: "And so is this nation before me, saith
the Lord; and so is every work of their hands, and that which they
offer there is unclean" (Haggai 2:11-14).[21]

Men therefore ought to distinguish between doing and well-doing,
even in the worship of God. All that worship do not do well, though
the matter of worship be good in itself. Cain's offering you find
not blamed, as if it had been of a superstitious complexion; but
he came not aright to worship. Why? he came not as one made righteous
before. Wherefore, as I have already touched, the difference
that lay between the gifts of Abel and Cain, was not in the gifts
themselves, but the qualifications of the persons. Abel's faith,
and Cain's works, made God approve and reject the offering: "by
faith Abel offered to God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain":
For, as I said, Faith in Christ, as promised to come, made him
righteous, because thereby he obtained "the righteousness of God";
for so was Christ in himself, and so to be to him that by faith
received and accepted of him: This, I say, Abel did; wherefore now
he is righteous or just before God. This being so, his offering is
found to be an offering of Abel the just, and is here said to obtain
witness even of God, that he was righteous, because he accepted
his gift.

Wherefore, he that does well must first be good: "He that doeth
righteousness is [must first be] righteous" (1 John 3:7). He
is righteous first; he is righteous even as Christ is righteous,
because Christ himself is the righteousness of such a person.
And so on the contrary; the reason why some men's good deeds are
accursed of God, it is because in truth, and according to the law,
the Lord finds sin in them; which sins he cannot pardon, because
he finds them not in Christ. Thus they being evil for want of
the righteousness of the Son of God, they worship God as sinners,
according to that of the apostle, Because they are not good,
therefore they do not good, no, not one of them (Rom 3:10-12).

The way therefore to do well, it is first to receive the mercy of
God in Christ; which act of thine will be more pleasing to the
Divine Majesty, than all whole burnt-offerings and sacrifices: "I
will have mercy [saith God] I will have mercy, and not sacrifice"
(Matt 9:13; 12:7). This Cain did not understand, therefore he goes
to God in his sins, and without faith in the mercy of God through
Christ, he offereth his sacrifice. Wherefore because his sacrifice
could not take away his sin, therefore it still abode upon him.

But "if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door." This reasoning
therefore was much to Cain's condition; he would be wroth, because
God did not accept his offering, and yet he did not well: Now, if
he had done well, God, by receiving of his brother's sacrifice,
shows, he would have accepted him; for this is evident, they were
both alike by nature; their offerings also were in themselves one
as holy as the other: How then comes it to pass that both were
not accepted, they both offered to God? Why, Abel only sacrificed
well, because he first by faith in Christ was righteous: This
because Cain wanted, "sin abideth at his door."

"And to thee shall be his desire, and thou shalt rule over him."
That is if sin abideth at thy door still, to thee shall be his
desire; he shall love, pity, pray for thee, and endeavour thy
conversions; but thou shalt be lord over him, and shalt put thy
yoke upon his neck. This was Jacob's portion also; for after Esau
had got head, he broke Jacob's yoke from off his neck, and reigned
by nineteen or twenty dukes and princes, before there was any king
in Israel (Gen 27:40).

It is the lot of Cain's brood, to be lords and rulers first, while
Abel and his generation have their necks under persecution; yet
while they lord it, and thus tyrannically afflict and persecute,
our very desire is towards them, wishing their salvation: While
they curse, we bless; and while they persecute, we pray.

Ver. 8. "And Cain talked with Abel his brother: and it came to
pass, when they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel
his brother, and slew him."

When Cain saw that by God's judgment Abel was the better worshipper,
and that himself must by no means be admitted for well-doing, his
heart began to be more obdurate and hard, and to grow into that
height of desperateness, as to endeavour the extirpating of all
true religion out of the world; which it seems he did, by killing
his brother, mightily accomplish, until the days of Enos; for
"then began men [again] to call upon the name of the Lord" (v 26).

Hence see the spite of the children of hell against God: They have
slain thy prophets, and digged down thine altars (1 Kings 19:10).
If they may have their wills, God must be content with their
religion, or none; other they will not endure should have show
within their reach, but with Cain, will rather kill their brother;
or with the Pharisees, kill their Lord; and with the evil kings
of old, will rather kill their sons and subjects. That the truth,
I say, may fall to the ground, and their own inventions stand
for acceptable sacrifices, they will not only envy, but endeavour
to invalidate all the true worship and worshippers of God in the
world; the which if they cannot without blood accomplish, they
will slay and kill till their cruelty hath destroyed many ten
thousands, even as Cain, who slew his brother Abel.[22]

And Cain talked with his brother. He had not a law whereby to
arraign him, but malice enough, and a tongue to set all on fire, of
which no doubt, by the goodly replies of his brother, was easily
blown up into choler and madness, the end of which was the blood
of his brother.

"And Cain talked with Abel," &c. To wit, about the goodness and
truth of his religion. For that the New Testament seems to import,
he slew him "because his works were righteous" (1 John 3:12); which
Abel, no doubt, had justified before his brother, even then when
he most set himself to oppose him. Besides this, the connection
of the relation importeth, he talked with him, he slew him; he
talked with him and slew him, purely upon a religious account,
because his works were righteous.

Hence note, That when wicked men have the head in the world,
professors had need be resolved to hazard the worst, before they
do enter debate with ungodly men about the things that pertain to
the kingdom of God. For behold here, words did not end in words,
but from words came blows, and from blows blood. The counsel
therefore is, "That you sit down first, and count up the cost,"
before ye talk with Cain of religion (Luke 14:27-33). "They make a
man an offender for a word, and lay a snare for him that reproveth
in the gate, and turn aside the just for a thing of nought" (Isa
29:21).

"And Cain talked with Abel his brother." With Abel his only brother,
who also was a third part of the world. But tyrants matter nothing,
neither nearness of kin, nor how much they destroy: "The brother
shall betray the brother to death," &c.

"And it came to pass, when they were in the field, that Cain rose
up against Abel his brother, and slew him." When they were in the
field, from home, out of the sight, and far from the help of his
father: Subtle persecutors love not to bite, till they can make
their teeth to meet; for which they observe their time and place.
Joseph was also hated of his brethren, but they durst not meddle
till they found him in the field (Gen 37:15). Here it is also that
the holy virgin falleth: He found her in the field,--and there
was none to save her (Deut 22:27).

Hence observe again, That be the danger never so imminent, and the
advantage of the adversary never so great, the sincere professor
of the truth stands his ground against wind and weather. Bloody
Cain daunted not holy Abel; no, though now he have his advantage of
him (Dan 3:16-18). He rose up against Abel his brother, and slew
him. "And wherefore slew he him? Because his own works were evil,"
&c. (1 John 3:12). It is therefore hence to be observed, That it
is a sign of an evil way, be it covered with the name of the worship
of God, when it cannot stand without the shedding of innocent
blood. "Wherefore slew he him? Because his own works were evil."
Had his works been good, they had been accepted of God: He had
also had the joy thereof in his conscience, as doubtless Abel
had; which joy and peace would have produced love and pity to his
brother, as it was with his brother towards him; but his works
being evil, they minister to him no heavenly joy, neither do they
beget in him love to his brother; but contrariwise, his heart fill
his eye with evil also; which again provoketh (while it beholdeth
the godly carriage of Abel) the heart to more desperate resolutions,
even to set upon him with all his might, and to cut him off from
the earth. Thus the goodness of God's people provoketh to envy the
wicked heart of the hypocrite. As it was betwixt Saul and David;
for after Saul had seen that God had rejected him for his wickedness,
the more he hated the goodness of David: "And Saul saw and knew
that the Lord was with David" (1 Sam 18:8-15). "And Saul was yet the
more afraid of David; and Saul became David's enemy continually"
(v 29).

Ver. 9. "And the Lord said unto Cain, Where is Abel thy brother?
And he said, I know not: Am I my brother's keeper?"

Cain thought it had been no more but to kill his brother, and his
intentions and desires must needs be accomplished, and that himself
should then be the only man. "Come, let us kill him, and the
inheritance shall be ours" (Mark 12:7). But stay, Abel was beloved
of his God, who had also justified his offering, and accepted it
as a service more excellent than his brother's. So then, because
the quarrel arose between them upon this very account, therefore
Abel's God doth reckon himself as engaged (seeing he is not) to
take up his servant's cause himself.

"And the Lord said unto Cain, Where is Abel thy brother?" A
question not grounded on uncertainty, but proposed as a beginning
of further reasoning; and also to make way to this wicked wretch,
to discover the desperate wickedness of his bloody heart the more.
For questions that stand at first afar off, do draw out more of the
heart of another: and also do minister more occasion for matter,
than if they had been placed more near to the matter.

"Where is Abel?" God missed the acceptable sacrifices of Abel; Abel
was dead, and his sacrifices ceased, which had wont to be savoury
in the nostrils of God; Cain could not supply them; his sacrifices
were deficient, they were not of faith. Hence note, that if tyrants
should have their will, even to the destroying of all the remnant
of God, their sacrifices and worship would be yet before God as
abominable as they were before.

"And the Lord said unto Cain, Where is Abel?" O dreadful question!
The beginning of Cain's hell, for now God entereth into judgment
with him. Wherefore, however this wretch endeavoured at first to
stifle and choke his conscience, yet this was to him the arrow
of death: Abel crieth, but his brother would not hear him while
alive, and now being dead God hears the cry of his blood. "When he
maketh inquisition for blood, he remembereth them: he forgetteth
not the cry of the humble" (Psa 9:12). Blood that is shed for the
sake of God's word, shall not be forgotten or disregarded of God:
"Precious in his sight is the death of his saints" (Psa 116:15).
"And precious shall their blood be in his sight" (Psa 72:14).

"Where is Abel thy brother?" This word, thy brother, must not be
left out, because it doth greatly aggravate his wickedness. He slew
"his brother"; which horrid act the very law and bond of nature
forbiddeth. But when a man is given up of God, it is neither this
nor another relation that will bind his hands, or make him keep
within the bound of any law. Judas will seek his master's, and
Absalom his father's blood. "Where is Abel thy brother?"

"And he said, I know not." He knew full well what he had done, and
that by his hands his brother's blood was fallen to the ground,
but now being called into question for the same, he endeavoureth
to plead ignorance before God. "I know not." When men have once
begun to sin, they know not where they shall end; he slew his
brother, and endeavours to cover his fact with a lie. David also
little thought his act of adultery would have led him to have
spilt the blood of Uriah, and afterwards to have covered all with
dissembling lips and a lying tongue (2 Sam 11).

"I know not: am I my brother's keeper?"

This is the way of all ungodly men, they will not abide that guilt
should be fastened. Sin they love, and the lusts and delights
thereof, but to count for it they cannot abide; they will put it
off with excuses, or denials: Even like Saul, who though he had
spared the cattle and Agag contrary to the command of God, yet
would needs bear Samuel down, that he had kept, yea "performed the
commandment of the Lord" (1 Sam 15:13,20). But they are denials to
no boot, and excuses that will not profit, that are made to hide
the sin of the soul from the sight and judgment of God. Lies and
falsehood will here do nothing.

Ver. 10. "And he said, What hast thou done? the voice of thy
brother's blood crieth unto me from the ground."

Poor Cain, thy feeble shifts help thee nothing, thy excuses are
drowned by the cries of the blood which thou hast shed.

"What hast thou done?" the blood of thy brother cries. Beware
persecutors, you think that when you have slain the godly, you are
then rid of them; but you are far wide, their blood which you have
shed, cries in the ears of God against you. O the cries of blood
are strong cries, they are cries that reach to heaven; yea they
are cries that have a continual voice, and that never cease to
make a noise, until they have procured vengeance form the hands
of the Lord of sabbath (Job 16:18): And therefore this is the word
of the Lord against all those that are for the practice of Cain:
"As I live, saith the Lord God, I will prepare thee unto blood
and blood shall pursue thee: sith thou hast not hated blood, [that
is, hated to shed it,] even blood shall pursue thee" (Eze 35:6).

"The voice of thy brother's blood crieth unto me." The apostle
makes this voice of the blood of Abel, a type of the voice of the
justice of the law, and so extends it further than merely to the
act of murder; intimating that he sheds blood, that breaks any of
the commands of God, (and indeed so he doth, "he layeth wait of
his own blood, and privily lurketh for his own life" (Prov 1:18)).
Wherefore the apostle compareth the blood of Abel and the blood
of Christ together; but so as by the rule of contraries, making
betwixt them a contrary voice, even as there is between a broken
command and a promise of grace, the one calling for vengeance and
damnation; the other calling for forgiveness and salvation; "the
blood of sprinkling it speaketh better things than the blood of
Abel" (Heb 12:24); that is, it calls to God to forgive the sinner;
but Abel's blood, of the breach of the law, that cries damn them,
damn them. Christ also sets his own blood in opposition to the
blood of all that was shed before him; concluding that the proper
voice of all the blood of the godly, is to call for vengeance
on the persecutors, even from the blood of Abel to the blood of
Zecharias, that was slain between the altar and the temple (Matt
23:35). And let me here take leave to propound my private thoughts:
namely, that the Zecharias that here is mentioned, might not be
he that we find in the book of Chronicles (2 Chron 24:21); but
one of that name that lived in the days of Christ, possibly John
Baptist's father, or some other holy man. My reasons for this
conjecture, are, 1. Because the murderers are convict by Christ
himself: Zecharias, whom ye slew between the altar and the temple.
2. Because Christ makes a stop at the blood of Zecharias, not
at the blood of John the Baptist: wherefore, if the person here
mentioned were not murdered after, but before John the Baptist,
then Christ seems to excuse them for killing his servant John;
for the judgment stops at the including of the guilt of the blood
of Zecharias. 3. I think such a thing, because the voice of all
holy blood that hath been shed before the law by the adversary,
excepting only the blood of Jesus, must needs be included here;
the proper voice of his, only being to plead for mercy to the
murderers. However, the voice of blood is a very killing voice, and
will one day speak with such thunder and terror in the consciences
of all the brood of Cain, that their pain and burthen will be for
ever insupportable.

Ver. 11. "And now art thou cursed from the earth, which hath opened
her mouth to receive thy brother's blood from thy hand."

Here begins the sentence of God against this bloody man; a sentence
fearful and terrible, for it containeth a removing of him from
all the privileges of grace and mercy, and a binding of him over
to the punishment and pains of the damned.

"And now art thou cursed from the earth." Peace on earth, is one
branch of those blessed tidings that were brought into the world,
at the coming of the Messias (Luke 2:14). Again, before Christ
was come in the flesh, it is said, He rejoiced "in the habitable
part of his earth" (Pro 8:30). Wherefore, by the earth in this
place, I understand the state that the men are in, to whom, by the
mind of God, the gospel and grace of God is to be tendered. Now,
whether it respect that state of man by nature, or the state of
those that are saints, from both these privileges Cain is separate,
as are all whom the Lord hath utterly rejected. Not but that yet
they may live long in the world, but God hath cut them off from
the earth, and all the gospel privileges therein, and set them in
the condition of devils; so that as to grace and mercy they are
separate therefrom, and stand as men, though alive, bound over to
eternal judgment. And as to their lives, it matters not how long
they live, there is "no sacrifice for their sins, but a certain
fearful looking for of judgment and fiery indignation, which
shall devour the adversaries" (Heb 10:26,27). So that I say, as
the devils be bound in hell, so such lie bound in earth; bound I
say in the chains of darkness, and their own obstinate heart, over
to the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of
God. Cain therefore by these words is denied the blessing of future
means of grace, and stands bound over to answer for his brother's
blood, which the ground had received form his cruel hand.

Ver. 12. "When thou tillest the ground, it shall not henceforth
yield to thee her strength; a fugitive and a vagabond shalt thou
be in the earth."

This is a branch, or the fruits of this wilful murder. Indeed, sins
carry in them not only a curse with respect to eternity, but are
also the cause of all the miseries of this life. "God turneth--a
fruitful land into barrenness, for the wickedness of them that
dwell therein" (Psa 107:34).

"When thou tillest the ground." Sin committed doth not always
exclude the sinner from an enjoyment of God's mercies, but yet if
unrepented of, bringeth a curse upon them. "I will curse, [saith
God,] your blessings: yea, I have cursed them already, because ye
do not lay it to heart" (Mal 2:2). This also is the reason that the
table of some is made their snare, their trap, a stumbling-block
and a recompence unto them (Rom 11:9); men ought not therefore to
judge of the goodness of their state, by their enjoyment of God's
creatures, but rather should tremble while they enjoy them, lest
for sin they should become accursed to them, as were the enjoyments
of this wicked man.

"A fugitive and a vagabond shalt thou be in the earth." The meaning
is, thou shalt not have rest in the world, but shalt be continually
possessed with a guilty conscience, which shall make thy condition
restless, and void of comfort. For the man that indeed is linked
in the chains of guilt and damnation, as Cain here was; he cannot
rest, but (as we say) fudge up and down from place to place,
because his burthen is insupportable. As David said, "Let their
eyes be darkened that they see not, and make their loins continually
to shake" (Psa 69:23). A continual shaking and restlessness doth
therefore possess such persons as are given up of God, and swallowed
up of guilt.

"A fugitive and vagabond shalt thou be in the earth." Some men
certainly know, even while they are in this world, their state
to be most miserable, and damnable, as Cain, Saul and Judas did;
which knowledge, as I have hinted, puts them besides the very
course of other carnal men; who while they behold them at quiet
under their enjoyments, these cannot but wonder, fear, and be
amazed with the deep cogitations which will abide upon them, of
their certain misery and everlasting perdition.

Ver. 13. "And Cain said unto the Lord, My punishment is greater
than I can bear." Or as the margin hath it, "Mine iniquity is
greater than that it may be forgiven." And both readings are true:
for however some men please themselves in lessening sin, and the
punishment thereof, yet a burdened conscience judgeth otherwise.
And if Cain failed in either, it was in that he counted his sin (if
he did so) beyond the reach of God's mercy. But again, when men
persecute the worship and people of God, as Cain did his blessed
and religious brother, even of spite, and because he envied the
goodness of his brother's work; I question whether it be lawful for
a minister to urge to such the promise of grace and forgiveness;
and also whether it be the mind of God such persons should hope
therein. He that sins the sin unto death, is not to be prayed for
(1 John 5:16), but contrariwise he is to be taken from God's altar
that he may die (Exo 21:14). This was Cain's case, and now he
knew it; therefore as one excluded of God from his mercy and all
the means thereof, he breaks out with roaring under the intolerable
burden of the judgment of God upon him, concluding his punishment at
present "greater than he could bear," and that yet his sin should
remain unpardonable for ever: As saith our Lord Jesus Christ, He
hath neither forgiveness here nor in the world to come (Matt 12:32).

Ver. 14. "Behold, thou hast driven me out this day from the face
of the earth; and from thy face shall I be hid; And I shall be a
fugitive and a vagabond in the earth, and it shall come to pass,
that every one that findeth me shall slay me."

By these words is confirmed what was said before, to wit, to be
cursed from the earth, was to be separate from the privileges of
the gospel. For Cain was not now to die, neither was he driven
into any den or cave; yet driven out from the face of the earth,
that is, as I have said, he was excluded from a share in those
special mercies that by the gospel were still offered by grace
to the others that inhabited the world: The mercies, I say, that
are offered by the gospel, as namely, The mercy of eternal life:
For as to the blessings of this world, he had yet a notable
share thereof. Besides, he groaneth under this judgment, as an
insupportable curse: "Thou hast driven me out this day from the
face of the earth." And indeed, if we take it according as I have
laid it down, it is a curse that would break the whole world to
pieces; for he that is denied a share in the grace that is now
offered, must needs be denied a portion in God's kingdom. And
this Cain saw; wherefore he adds in the process of his complaint,
"And from thy face shall I be hid": "I shall never come into thy
kingdom, I shall never see thy face in heaven." This is therefore
the highest of all complaints; namely, for a man from a certain
conviction that his condition must without fail be damnable, to
condole and bemoan his forlorn condition.

"Thou hast driven me out." O! when God shall bind one over for
his sin, to eternal judgment, who then can release him? This was
Cain's state, God had bound him over. The blood of his brother was
to rest upon him and not to be purged with sacrifice for ever.

"Thou hast driven me out THIS DAY." He knew by the sentence that
fell from heaven upon him, even from that very day that he was
made a companion of, and an associate with devils. This day, or
for this day's work, I am made an inhabitant of the pit with the
devil and his angels. Hence note, That God doth sometimes smite
the reprobate so apparently, that himself from that day may make
a certain judgment of the certainty of his damnation. Thus did
Balaam: "I shall see him, but not now: I shall behold him, but not
nigh" (Num 24:17). Where by now, he respects the time of grace;
and by nigh, the time or day of judgment: As who should say, "I,
for my sorceries, and wicked divinations, am excluded a portion in
the day of grace, and therefore shall not see the Saviour NOW: I
am also rejected, as to a portion in the blessed world to come:
and therefore when he judgeth, I shall not see him NIGH: Nigh, as
a friend, as a saviour to my soul." I doubt this is the condition
of many now alive, who for their perfidiousness and treachery to
Christ, and his church, have already received, even "in themselves,
that recompence of their error which was meet" (Rom 1:27).

Ishmael also, in the day he laughed at Isaac (Gen 21:9), and Esau
in the day he sold his birthright (Gen 27; 28), might have gathered,
the one from God's concurring with the judgment of Sarah, the
other, from his father's adhering to his brother; his adhering, I
say, in a prophetic spirit (Gal 4:29); that from thenceforth they
both were excluded grace and glory, as the apostle by the Holy
Ghost afterwards doth (Heb 12:16,17).

"And from thy face shall I be hid." By face here, we are to
understand God's favour, and blessed presence, which is enjoyed by
the saints both here, and in the world to come (Psa 4:6,7; 16:11).
Both which this wicked man, for the murdering of his brother, and
his envy to the truth, now knew himself excluded from.

"From thy face shall I be HID." The pit of hell, to which the
damned go, besides the torment that they meet with there, is such
a region of darkness, and at such a distance from the heavens, and
the glorious comfortable presence of God, that those that shall be
found the proper subjects of it, shall for ever be estranged from
one glimpse of him: besides, sin shall bind all their faces in
secret, and so confound them with horror, shame, and guilt that
they shall not be able from thenceforth for ever, so much as once
to think of God with comfort.

"From thy FACE." As it were all the glory of heaven, it lieth in
beholding the face of God: A thing the ungodly little think of;
yet the men that have received in themselves already the sentence
of eternal damnation, they know it after a wonderful rate; and
the thoughts of the loss of his face and presence, doth, do what
they can, as much torment them, as the thoughts of all the misery
they are like to meet withal besides.

"And a fugitive and a vagabond shall I be on the earth." Even from
the present frame of his spirit, Now, having received the sentence,
he knew, the judgment past being unrevokable, how it would be with
him all his life long; that he should spend his days in trouble
and guilt, rolling under the justice of God, being always a terror
and burthen to himself, to the day he was to be cut off from the
earth, that he might go to the place appointed for him.

"And it shall come to pass, that every one that findeth me shall
slay me." Guilt is a strange thing, it makes a man think that
every one that sees him, hath knowledge of his iniquity. It also
bringeth such a faintness into the heart (Lev 26:36), that the
sound of a shaken leaf doth chase such persons: and above all
things, the cries of blood are most fearful in the conscience; the
cries of the blood of the poor innocents, which the seed of Cain
hath shed on the face of the earth (Jer 2:34; 19:4). Thus far of
Cain's complaint.

Ver. 15. "And the Lord said unto him, Therefore whosoever slayeth
Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him seven-fold. And the Lord
set a mark upon Cain, lest any finding him should kill him."

By these words, the judgment is confirmed, which Cain, in the verse
before, so mournfully pronounced against his own soul. As if the
Lord had said, "Cain, thy judgment is as thou hast said, I have
driven thee out this day from a share in my special favour; and when
thy life is ended, thou shalt be hid from my face, and a blessed
presence for ever; and seeing it is thus, therefore I will not
suffer that thou die before thy time: Alas, thy glass will be quickly
run! Besides, thy days, while thou art here, will sufficiently
be filled with vexation and distress; for thou shalt always carry
in thy conscience the cries of innocent blood, and the fear of
the wrath of God: I have said it, and will perform it: I am not
a man, that I should repent: So that thus shall thy judgment be:
Therefore he that killeth Cain, I will take vengeance on him."

Hence note, That none need to add to the sorrows of the persecutors.
They above all men are prepared unto wrath. Let them alone (saith
Christ) they will quickly fall into the ditch. Besides, God hath
taken the revengement of the blood of his servants into his own
hand, and will execute his wrath himself. Therefore he saith to his
saints (as in this case), "Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves,
but rather give place unto wrath: for it is written, Vengeance is
mine, I will repay, saith the Lord" (Rom 12:19). And the reason
is, because the quarrel is in special between the prosecutor and
God himself. For we are not hated because we are men, nor because we
are men of evil and debauched lives; but because we are religious;
because we stand to maintain the truth of God. Therefore no man must
here intercept, but must leave the enemy in the hand of that God
he hath slighted and condemned. This made Moses that he meddled
not with Corah and his company, but left them to that new thing
which the Lord himself would do unto them, because they had
condemned the ordinance of God (Num 16:25-35). This made David
also that he meddled not with Saul, but left him to the vengeance
of God, though he had opportunity to have destroyed him (1 Sam
24 and 26:10-12). Let us learn therefore to be quiet and patient
under the hand of wicked and blood-thirsty men. Let us fall before
them like holy Abel; it is and will be grief enough to them,
that when we are dead, our blood will cry from the ground against
them.[23]

"Therefore he that killeth Cain, vengeance shall be taken," &c. He
now that shall, after this admonition, plead for religious blood
with the sword, vengeance shall be taken on him, because he giveth
not place to the wrath of God, but intercepts with his own, which
"worketh not the righteousness of God" (James 1:19,20). Say therefore
with David, when you are vexed with the persecutor, Mine hand
shall not be upon him; but "as the Lord liveth, the Lord shall
smite him; or, his day shall come to die; or, he shall descend in
battle, and perish."

"Vengeance shall be taken on him seven fold." It would not be hard
to shew how little they have prevailed, who have taken upon them
to take vengeance for the blood of saints, on them that have been
the spillers of it. But my business here is brevity, therefore I
shall not launch into that deep, only shall say to such as shall
attempt it hereafter, "Put up thy sword into his place; for all they
that take the sword shall perish with the sword"! (Matt 26:52).
And "here is the patience and faith of the saints" (Rev 13:10).
Let Cain and God alone, and do you mind faith and patience; suffer
with Abel, until your righteous blood be spilt: even the work of
persecutors, is, for the present, punishment enough; the fruits
thereof being the provoking God to jealousy, a denying of them the
knowledge of the way of life, and a binding of them over to the
pains and punishment of hell.

"And the Lord set a mark upon Cain." What the opinion of others is
about this mark, I know not; to me it seems like those in Timothy,
who had "their conscience seared with a hot iron" (1 Tim 4:2).
Which words are an allusion to the way of the magistrates in their
dealing with rogues and felons; who that they may be known to
all, are either in the hand, shoulder, or cheek branded with a hot
iron. So Cain was marked of God for a reprobate, for one that had
murdered a righteous man, even of envy to the goodness of his
work: But the mark (as it was on those in Timothy) was not on any
outward or visible part of his body, but (as there the apostle
expresseth it) even upon his very conscience; his conscience then
had received the fire-mark of the wrath and displeasure of God,
which, as a burning iron doth to the flesh, had left such deep
impression therein, that it abode as a scar or brand upon him, in
token that good would for ever after hold him for a fugitive rogue
or vagabond.

"And the Lord set a mark upon Cain, lest any finding him should
kill him." For though the mark was branded with burning upon his
conscience, and so inward and invisible; yet the effects of this
hot iron might be visible, and seen of all: the effects, I say,
which were, or might be, his restlessness in every place, his
dejectedness, the sudden and fearful pangs and agonies of his
mind, which might break out into dolorous and amazing complaints;
besides, his timorous carriage before all he met, lest they should
kill him; gave all to understand, that God had with a vengeance
branded him. And indeed this was such a mark as was amazing to
all that beheld him, and did ten times more make them afraid of
spilling blood, than if any visible mark had been set upon him;
of for by his trouble and distress of mind, they saw, what was
the guilt of blood: and by his continual fear and trembling under
the judgment of God, what it was to be in fear of, nay, to have
the first fruits of everlasting damnation. Thus therefore God
reserved Cain to the judgment which he had appointed for him.

Ver. 16. "And Cain went out from the presence of the Lord, and
dwelt in the land of Nod, on the east of Eden."

The right carriage of a reprobate, and the infallible fruits of
final desperation. For a man that hath received in his mind the
stroke of the judgment of God, and that is denied all means of
saving and sanctifying grace, (as the great transgressors are,)
the presence of God is to such most dreadful; whether we understand
the knowledge of him as he is in himself, or as he discovereth
himself in his church; for the thought of his being, and eternal
majesty, keeps the wound open, and makes terror and guilt revive.
To such it would be the best of news, to hear that the Godhead
doth cease to be, or that themselves were high above him. But that
they are in the hand of the living God, this is the dreadful and
fearful thought.

"And Cain went out from the presence of the Lord." These words may
be taken many ways.

1. That he separated himself from the church (the place of God's
presence) (2 Cor 6:16) which then consisted of his father and
mother, and of those other children they had. And this appears by
the text, "He went out from the presence of the Lord, and dwelt in
the land of Nod."

2. A man goes out from the presence of God, when he withdraws his
thoughts from holy meditations, and employeth the strength of his
mind about the things of this life (Job 21:14-18). And thus he
also did; he went into the land of Nod, and there fell to building
a city, and to recreate himself with the pleasures of the flesh
what he might.

3. A man goes out from the presence of God, when he throweth up
the worship and way of God; and this he did in departing from the
church (2 Chron 19:1-3).

4. Besides, his going out from the presence of the Lord, implieth,
that he hardened his heart against him, that he set his spirit
against him; that he said to God, Depart from me (Heb 3:12); that
he grew an implacable enemy to him, and to every appearance of
good in the world (Job 15:12,13).

"And Cain went out from the presence of the Lord." These words may
also respect his being thrust out from God, as one anathematized,
accursed, or cut off, in effect the same with excommunication.
But be it so, the act was extraordinary, being administered by God
himself; even as he served Corah and his company, though in kind
there was a difference, the one, even Cain, being yet permitted to
live for a while in the world; the other being sent down quick into
hell; but both, for their villany against the worship and people
of God, stand bound over to answer it at the eternal judgment.

Ver. 17. "And Cain knew his wife; and she conceived, and bare Enoch:
and he builded a city, and called the name of the city, after the
name of his son, Enoch."

Cain's wife was his sister, or near kinswoman; for she sprang of
the same loins with himself; because his mother was "the mother
of all living" (Gen 3:20).

This wife bare him a son; for whose sake, as it seems, he built
the city. Hence note, That men who are shut out of heaven, will
yet use some means to be honourable on earth. Cain being accursed
of God, yet builds him a city; the renown of which act, that it
might not be forgotten, he calleth it after the name of his son.
Much like this was that carnal act of blasted Absalom; because
he had no child, he would erect a pillar, which must forsooth be
called Absalom's place, after the name of Absalom, to keep his
name in remembrance upon earth (2 Sam 18:18).

"And he builded a city," &c. Note, That it is the design of Satan,
and the deceitful heart of man, to labour to quiet a guilty
conscience, not by faith in the blood of Christ, but by over much
business in the things of this world.

"And called the name of the city, after the name of his son,
Enoch." Although Cain had a mind to keep up his name with fame in
the world, yet he would not venture to dedicate the city to his
own name; that would have been too gross; and perhaps others would
have called it, The CITY OF THE MURDERER; but he calleth it after
the name of his son, his son Enoch; whom he pretended was a man
both taught, and dedicate, as it seems his name imports. Hence
note again, That men who themselves are accursed of God, will yet
put as fair glosses on their actions, as their hypocritical hearts
can invent. Who must this city be dedicated to, but to him whom
Cain had dedicated and taught. I will not say that in truth he
gave him to God, for that his reprobate heart would not suffer;
but being given up of God, yet retaining, with Saul, considerations
of honour: therefore, as is the custom of ungodly hypocrites, he
would put the best show on his ungodly actions.

Thus Saul, when he had received the sentence of the Lord against
him; yet, Turn again with me (saith he to Samuel) "yet honour me
now before--the people, and before Israel" (1 Sam 15:30). So the
money wherewith the high priests and scribes had bought the life,
and obtained the death of Christ; with that they make some shew of
godliness, in buying with it a piece of ground to bury strangers
in (Matt 27:3-7).

Ver. 18. "And unto Enoch was born Irad: and Irad begat Mehujael:
and Mehujael begat Methusael: and Methusael begat Lamech."

These are the offspring of Cain; the English of whose names, if the
nature and disposition of the persons were according, they might
well be called, with abhorrence, the brood of wicked Cain, even
the generation whom the Lord had cursed, notwithstanding Enoch was
their father. Enoch begat Irad, a wild ass; Irad begat Mehujael,
one presumptuous above measure, his name signifies, one teaching
God. But "who hath directed the Spirit of the Lord?" (Isa 40:13). Or
"Shall any teach God knowledge?" (Job 21:22). The son of this man
was Methusael, asking death, the true fruit of all such presumptuous
ones, "his confidence shall be rooted out of his tabernacle, and
it shall bring him to the king of terrors" (Job 18:14). His son
was Lamech, one poor or smitten: The first, that, as we read, did
break the order of God in the matter of marriage.

Ver. 19. "And Lamech took unto him two wives: the name of the one
was Adah, and the name of the other Zillah."

This man was the first that brake the first institution of God
concerning marriage. "He took unto him two wives." The New Testament
says, Let every man have his own wife. And so said the law in its
first institution: therefore plurality of wives first came into
practice by the seed of cursed Cain, and for a time was suffered
in the world through the hardness of man's heart.

Ver. 20, 21. "And Adah bare Jabal: he was the father of such as
dwell in tents, and of such as have cattle. And his brother's name
was Jubal: he was the father of all such as handle the harp and
organ."

Jabal signifies bringing, or budding; Jubal, bringing or fading. So
then in these two sons might be shewed unto us the world, as it is
in its utmost glory: that is, it brings buds, it brings fading:
today in the field, tomorrow in the oven: "All flesh is grass,
and all the goodliness thereof, is as the flower of the field.
The grass withereth, the flower fadeth: because the Spirit of the
Lord bloweth upon it: surely the people is grass" (Isa 40:6-8).

And observe in these, the last was the musical one. Indeed, the
spirit of the world, after things have budded, is so far off from
remembering that they again must fade; that then it begins its
Requiem; then it saith to itself, Eat, drink, and be merry; then
it is for handling the harp and organ (Luke 12:16-20).

Ver. 22. "And Zillah, she also bare Tubal-Cain, an instructor of
every artificer in brass and iron: and the sister of Tubal-Cain
was Naamah."

Tubal-Cain, a worldly possession; and Naamah, one that by her name
should be beautiful. Lamech his fruit then was, a budding, fading,
worldly possession, with a little deceitful, vain beauty, for
"favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain: but a woman that feareth
the Lord, she shall be praised" (Pro 31:30). Ver. 23. "And Lamech
said unto his wives, Adah and Zillah, hear my voice; ye wives
of Lamech, hearken unto my speech: for I have slain a man to my
wounding, and a young man to my hurt."

He that sticks not to exceed in one point, will not fear to transgress
in another. He had hardened his heart, by breaking the modest and
orderly bounds of marriage, and so fitted himself to shed blood,
or do any other wickedness.

"Hearken to me, ye wives." Lustful men break their minds to their
fleshly companions, sometimes, sooner than to wiser counsellors.
Even as Ahab, in the business of the vineyard of Naboth, breaks
his mind to that ungodly Jezebel his wife.

"I have slain a man to my wounding." Who, or what man this murdered
person was, therein the word is silent: yet this Lamech being the
son of a bloody murderer, it is possible he was some godly man,
one of Adam's other children, or of his grandchildren, the son of
Seth: for these sons of Cain, and namely this in special, as it
seems, took not heed to the mark wherewith God branded Cain; but
like Belshazzar, he hardened his heart, though he knew it, and
would turn murderer also (Dan 5:18-22).

"I have slain a man to my wounding." The guilt of blood who can
bear? or who can help himself thereby? It is a wounding thing, it
is a hurtful thing, he that sheds man's blood wrongfully, cannot
establish himself thereby (Matt 22:6,7). The Jews thought to have
preserved themselves and country by killing Jesus Christ; but this
so provoked the justice of God, that for this thing's sake he sent
the Gentiles upon them to burn up their city; who when they were
come, if stories be true, slew of them eleven hundred thousand;
and those of them that were taken alive, were sold to who would
buy them, Thirty a penny. "Ye shed blood [says God] and shall ye
possess the land? Ye stand upon your sword, ye work abomination,
and ye defile every one his neighbour's wife: and shall ye possess
the land?" (Eze 33:25,26).

Ver. 24. "If Cain shall be avenged sevenfold, truly Lamech seventy
and sevenfold."

Though wicked men may be willingly ignorant of that part of the
judgments of God, that are to premonish them, that they do not that
wicked thing for which the judgment was executed; yet if there be
anything like favour mixed with the judgment, of that they will
take notice, to encourage themselves to evil: even as this ungodly
person, he would not be stopped from blood by the judgment of God
upon Cain; but rather, as it seems, because the judgment was not
speedily executed, his heart was fully set in him to do evil (Eccl
8:11). Much like that of the Jews, who because Jehoiakim had slain
Uriah the prophet, and yet God spared the land; therefore make
that an argument to prevail with Zedekiah to kill Jeremiah also
(Jer 26:20-23).

"If Cain shall be avenged sevenfold, truly Lamech seventy and
sevenfold." Give wicked men leave to judge of themselves, and they
will pass a sentence favourable enough. Though Lamech had not pity
when he spilt blood; yea, though the judgment of God upon Cain
could not hold his murderous hands: yet now he is guilty, let him
but make a law in the case, and woe be to him that killeth Lamech:
Vengeance shall be taken of him seventyfold and seven. Joab could
with pitiless hands spill the blood of men more righteous than
himself, not regarding what became of their souls: but when his
blood was by vengeance required for the same, then he would take
sanctuary at the horns of the altar (1 Kings 2:28). But judgment
is not wholly left to me, the Lord is judge himself; before whom
both Cain and Lamech, and all their successors, shall be arraigned,
and receive just doom, and that never to be reversed.

Ver. 25. "And Adam knew his wife again; and she bare a son, and
called his name Seth: for God, said she, hath appointed me another
seed instead of Abel, whom Cain slew."

Now we have done, for a while, with Cain, and are come again to
the church of God. Cain had slain Abel, and by that means, for a
while, had greatly suppressed the flourishing of religion; in which
time his own brood began to be mighty upon earth; so increasing,
as if religion was put to an end for ever. But behold their
disappointment! "Adam knew his wife again," (for Adam's family was
then the true church of God;) or take Adam for a type of Christ,
and his wife for a type of the church, and then this observation
followeth; namely, That so long as Christ and the church hath to
do with one another, it is in vain for Cain to think of suppressing
religion.

"Adam knew his wife again." If Eve had now been barren, or Adam
had died without farther issue, then Cain might have carried the
day; but behold another seed! a seed to stand in Abel's place:
therefore she called his name Seth; that is, Set or Put, as namely, in
the room of Abel, to stand up for, and to defend the truth against
all the army and power of Cain. As Paul also saith of himself,
"I am set, [or put,] for the defence of the gospel" (Phil 1:17).
This man therefore, so far as can be gathered, was the first that
put check to the outrage of Cain and his company. But mark some
observations about him.

1. He was set in the stead or place of Abel; not an inch behind
him, but even at the place where his blood was spilt. So that he
that will revive lost religion, must avow it as God's Abels have
done before him: every talker cannot do this. The blood that was
shed before his face, must not put check to his godly stomach; yea,
he must say to religion, as Ruth said once to her mother, "Where
thou diest, I will die, and there will I be buried" (Ruth 1:17).
This is the way to revive and to maintain the ways of God, in
despite of bloody Cain.[24]

2. This Seth that was set to put check to Cain, did not do it
of his own brain, but the hand of God was principal in the work.
"God," said she, "hath appointed me another seed to be set in the
place of Abel." And indeed it is otherwise in vain, when religion
is once suppressed, to think it should ever revive again. Alas!
where is the man, if he want God's Spirit, that will care for the
flourishing state of religion? and that in truth will make the Lord
his delight: "This is Zion, whom no man seeketh [for, or seeketh]
after" (Jer 30:17). All men here say, "See to thine own house,
David" (1 Kings 12:16). But when Seth comes, then the ground is
made good again; then a living saint is found to stand and maintain
that truth which but now his brother bled for. When James was
killed, Peter stands up, &c. (Acts 12:1-3). And therefore Seth
is said to be another seed, a man of another spirit: One who was
principled with a spirit beyond and above the spirit of the world.
"Another seed," one that was spirited for God's word, and God's
worship, and that would maintain his brother's cause.

3. Observe, That when Seth maintains his brother's lot, you hear
no more of the brood of Cain. And indeed, the way to weary out
God's enemies, it is to maintain and make good the front against
them: "Resist the devil, and he will fly" (James 4:7). Now if
the Captain, their king Apollion, be made to yield, how can his
followers stand their ground? "The dragon,--the devil, Satan,--he
was cast out into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him"
(Rev 12:9). But how? It was by fighting: "Michael and his angels
fought against the dragon;--and overcame him by the blood of the
Lamb, and by the word of their testimony, and by not loving of
their lives unto the death" (Rev 12:7,8,12).

4. Let this, in the last place, serve for persecutors, That when
you have cast down many ten thousands, and also the truth to the
ground; there is yet a Seth, another seed behind, that God hath
appointed to stand in the stead of his brethren, by whom you will
certainly be put to flight, and made to cease from oppressing the
truth.

Ver. 26. "And to Seth, to him also there was born a son; and he
called his name Enos: Then began men to call upon the name of the
Lord."

The Holy Ghost, in recording the birth of Enos, goeth out of his
ordinary style, in that he doubleth the mentioning of his father,
with respect to the birth of this son. And indeed it is worth the
observing; for it staggereth the faith of some, to think that the
man that makes good the ground of a murdered brother, should not
leave issue behind him: But "to Seth, to him was born a son." Our
faithfulness to the truth, shall be no hindrance to the flourishing
state of our offspring, take them either for the fleshly or spiritual
seed of God's servants, but sons, (especially in the latter sense,
if we truly stand by the word of God) shall surely be born unto
us.

"And to Seth, to him also there was born a son; and he called his
name Enos." Enos, a man; not a devil, like Cain, but a man; or, a
man that was miserable in this world, for the sake and cause of
God;[25] for it seems, as was his father, so was he, even both
given up to maintain God's truth; which cannot be done but with
great hazard, so long as Cain or his offspring remain. His father
therefore, by his very name, did offer him up to bear all hardships
for the name and cause of God: "Behold I send you forth [saith
Christ] as lambs in the midst of wolves." In effect, he called
their name Enos, men to be acquainted with grief and miseries:
But mark, "Then began men to call upon the name of the Lord."

