Produced by David Reed


A BOY'S WILL

By Robert Frost


CONTENTS

    Part I
        Into My Own
            The youth is persuaded that he will be rather more than less himself
            for having forsworn the world.
        Ghost House
            He is happy in society of his choosing.
        My November Guest
            He is in love with being misunderstood.
        Love and a Question
            He is in doubt whether to admit real trouble to a place beside the
            hearth with love.
        A Late Walk
            He courts the autumnal mood.
        Stars
            There is no oversight of human affairs.
        Storm Fear
            He is afraid of his own isolation.
        Wind and Window Flower
            Out of the winter things he fashions a story of modern love.
        To the Thawing Wind (audio)
            He calls on change through the violence of the elements.
        A Prayer in Spring
            He discovers that the greatness of love lies not in forward-looking
            thoughts;
        Flower-gathering
            nor yet in any spur it may be to ambition.
        Rose Pogonias
            He is no dissenter from the ritualism of nature;
        Asking for Roses
            nor from the ritualism of youth which is make-believe.
        Waiting--Afield at Dusk
            He arrives at the turn of the year.
        In a Vale
            Out of old longings he fashions a story.
        With all his
            devices, however, he could not quite understand Hope,
        and he
            walked warily, lest through his lack of
        understanding he
            should, by some mischance, come suddenly upon
        a reef,
            and his plans go shipwreck. Yet all the time
        he laughed in his sleeve, for he foresaw the day when all this
money the Two Strange People were spending in his mudirieh should
become his own.

    If he
        could not
            get their goods and estates peaceably, riots were so easy to arrange;
            he had arranged
        them before. Then, when
            the Two Strange People had been struck with panic, the
        Syrian donkey-market,
            and the five
        hundred feddans of
            American cotton,
        and the new schools
            would be his
        for a song--or
            a curse.
        
            When he saw the turquoise ring on the finger of the little Quaker
lady he fancied he could almost hear the accompaniment of the song.

    He tore
        away tender portions
            of roasted lamb with his fingers, and
        crammed them into
            his mouth, rejoicing. With the same greasy
        fingers
            he put upon Hope's plate a stuffed cucumber, and would have added
            a
        clammy sweet
            and a tumbler of sickly sherbet at the same
        moment; but Hope ate nothing save a cake of dourha bread, and drank
only a cup of coffee.

Meanwhile, Shelek Pasha talked of the school, of the donkey-market,
the monopoly of which the Khedive had granted David; and of the new
prosperous era opening up in Egypt, due to the cotton David had
introduced as an experiment.

    David's heart waxed proud within him that
    he had walked out of Framley to the regeneration
    of a country.
    I should not be withheld but that some day
    Into their vastness I should steal away,
    Fearless of ever finding open land,
    Or highway where the slow wheel pours the sand.
    I do not see why I should e'er turn back,
    Or those should not set forth upon my track
    To overtake me, who should miss me here
    And long to know if still I held them dear.
    They would not find me changed from him they knew--
    Only more sure of all I thought was true.


Ghost House

    I DWELL in a lonely house I know
    That vanished many a summer ago,
    And left no trace but the cellar walls,
    And a cellar in which the daylight falls,
    And the purple-stemmed wild raspberries grow.
    O'er ruined fences the grape-vines shield
    The woods come back to the mowing field;
    The orchard tree has grown one copse
    Of new wood and old where the woodpecker chops;
    The footpath down to the well is healed.
    I dwell with a strangely aching heart
    In that vanished abode there far apart
    On that disused and forgotten road
    That has no dust-bath now for the toad.
    Night comes; the black bats tumble and dart;
    The whippoorwill is coming to shout
    And hush and cluck and flutter about:
    I hear him begin far enough away
    Full many a time to say his say
    Before he arrives to say it out.
    It is under the small, dim, summer star.
    I know not who these mute folk are
    Who share the unlit place with me--
    Those stones out under the low-limbed tree
    Doubtless bear names that the mosses mar.
    They are tireless folk, but slow and sad,
    Though two, close-keeping, are lass and lad,--
    With none among them that ever sings,
    And yet, in view of how many things,
    As sweet companions as might be had.


My November Guest

    MY Sorrow, when she's here with me,
    Thinks these dark days of autumn rain
    Are beautiful as days can be;
    She loves the bare, the withered tree;
    She walks the sodden pasture lane.
    Her pleasure will not let me stay.
    She talks and I am fain to list:
    She's glad the birds are gone away,
    She's glad her simple worsted gray
    Is silver now with clinging mist.
    The desolate, deserted trees,
    The faded earth, the heavy sky,
    The beauties she so truly sees,
    She thinks I have no eye for these,
    And vexes me for reason why.
    How shall the bloomin' carnage
    gore the Libyan sands, if there
    ain't no refreshment for the
    vitals and the diagrams?"
    "Come an wid ye to y'r forage-cake, thin-an' take this to ye," added
Connor slyly, as he slipped a little nickel-plated flask into Billy
Bagshot's hand.

    He bore a green-white stick in his hand,
    And, for all burden, care.
    He asked with the eyes more than the lips
    For a shelter for the night,
    And he turned and looked at the road afar
    Without a window light.
    The bridegroom came forth into the porch
    With, 'Let us look at the sky,
    And question what of the night to be,
    Stranger, you and I.'
    The woodbine leaves littered the yard,
    The woodbine berries were blue,
    Autumn, yes, winter was in the wind;
    'Stranger, I wish I knew.'
    Within, the bride in the dusk alone
    Bent over the open fire,
    Her face rose-red with the glowing coal
    And the thought of the heart's desire.
    The bridegroom looked at the weary road,
    Yet saw but her within,
    And wished her heart in a case of gold
    And pinned with a silver pin.
    The bridegroom thought it little to give
    A dole of bread, a purse,
    A heartfelt prayer for the poor of God,
    Or for the rich a curse;
    But whether or not a man was asked
    To mar the love of two
    By harboring woe in the bridal house,
    The bridegroom wished he knew.


A Late Walk

    WHEN I go up through the mowing field,
    The headless aftermath,
    Smooth-laid like thatch with the heavy dew,
    Half closes the garden path.
    And when I come to the garden ground,
    The whir of sober birds
    Up from the tangle of withered weeds
    Is sadder than any words.
    A tree beside the wall stands bare,
    But a leaf that lingered brown,
    Disturbed, I doubt not, by my thought,
    Comes softly rattling down.
    I end not far from my going forth
    By picking the faded blue
    Of the last remaining aster flower
    To carry again to you.


Stars

    HOW countlessly they congregate
    O'er our tumultuous snow,
    Which flows in shapes as tall as trees
    When wintry winds do blow!--
    As if with keenness for our fate,
    Our faltering few steps on
    To white rest, and a place of rest
    Invisible at dawn,--
    And yet with neither love nor hate,
    Those stars like some snow-white
    Minerva's snow-white marble eyes
    Without the gift of sight.


Storm Fear

    WHEN the wind works against us in the dark,
    And pelts with snow
    The lowest chamber window on the east,
    And whispers with a sort of stifled bark,
    The beast,
    'Come out! Come out!'--
    It costs no inward struggle not to go,
    Ah, no!
    I count our strength,
    Two and a child,
    Those of us not asleep subdued to mark
    How the cold creeps as the fire dies at length,--
    How drifts are piled,
    Dooryard and road ungraded,
    Till even the comforting barn grows far away
    And my heart owns a doubt
    Whether 'tis in us to arise with day
    And save ourselves unaided.


Wind and Window Flower

    LOVERS, forget your love,
    And list to the love of these,
    She a window flower,
    And he a winter breeze.
    When the frosty window veil
    Was melted down at noon,
    And the cagèd yellow bird
    Hung over her in tune,
    He marked her through the pane,
    He could not help but mark,
    And only passed her by,
    To come again at dark.
    He was a winter wind,
    Concerned with ice and snow,
    Dead weeds and unmated birds,
    And little of love could know.
    But he sighed upon the sill,
    He gave the sash a shake,
    As witness all within
    Who lay that night awake.
    Perchance he half prevailed
    To win her for the flight
    From the firelit looking-glass
    And warm stove-window light.
    But the flower leaned aside
    And thought of naught to say,
    And morning found the breeze
    A hundred miles away.


To the Thawing Wind (audio)

    COME with rain, O loud Southwester!
    Bring the singer, bring the nester;
    Give the buried flower a dream;
    Make the settled snow-bank steam;
    Find the brown beneath the white;
    But whate'er you do to-night,
    Bathe my window, make it flow,
    Melt it as the ices go;
    Melt the glass and leave the sticks
    Like a hermit's crucifix;
    Burst into my narrow stall;
    Swing the picture on the wall;
    Run the rattling pages o'er;
    Scatter poems on the floor;
    Turn the poet out of door.


A Prayer in Spring

    OH, give us pleasure in the flowers to-day;
    And give us not to think so far away
    As the uncertain harvest; keep us here
    All simply in the springing of the year.
    Oh, give us pleasure in the orchard white,
    Like nothing else by day, like ghosts by night;
    And make us happy in the happy bees,
    The swarm dilating round the perfect trees.
    And make us happy in the darting bird
    That suddenly above the bees is heard,
    The meteor that thrusts in with needle bill,
    And off a blossom in mid air stands still.
    For this is love and nothing else is love,
    The which it is reserved for God above
    To sanctify to what far ends He will,
    But which it only needs that we fulfil.


Flower-gathering

    I LEFT you in the morning,
    And in the morning glow,
    You walked a way beside me
    To make me sad to go.
    Do you know me in the gloaming,
    Gaunt and dusty grey with roaming?
    Are you dumb because you know me not,
    Or dumb because you know?
    All for me? And not a question
    For the faded flowers gay
    That could take me from beside you
    For the ages of a day?
    Whatever be the language in which
    that sentence be spoken, I know that
    my fate will meet with sympathy,
    and that my memory will be honoured.

In speaking thus, accuse me not, my lords, of an indecorus presumption
in the efforts I have made in a just and noble cause.

    I ascribe no main
    importance, nor do I claim
    for those efforts any
    high reward. But it so happens,
    and it will ever happen so, that
    they who have lived to serve
    their country--no matter how weak
    their efforts may have
    been--are sure to receive the
    thanks and blessings of its
    people. With my countrymen I leave
    my memory, my sentiments,
    my acts, proudly feeling that they
    require no vindication
    from me this day. A jury of my
    countrymen, it is true, have
    found me guilty of the
    crime of which I stood
    indicted. For this I entertain
    not the slightest feeling
    of resentment towards them.
    Influenced as they must have
    been by the charge of the Lord Chief
    Justice, they could perhaps have found no other verdict.

What of that charge?

    Any strong observations on it I feel sincerely would
    ill-befit the solemnity of this scene; but I
    would earnestly beseech of you, my lord--you who
    preside on that bench--when the passions and
    the prejudices of this hour have passed away,
    to appeal to your own conscience, and ask of
    it, was your charge what it ought to have
    been, impartial and indifferent between the
    subject and the crown? My lords, you may deem
    this language unbecoming in me, and perhaps
    it may seal my fate; but I am here to speak
    the truth, whatever it may cost--I am here to
    regret nothing I have ever done, to regret nothing I
    have ever said--I am here to crave with no lying
    lip the life I consecrate to the liberty of my country.
    Far from it. Even here--here, where the thief,
    the libertine, the murderer, have left their
    foot-prints in the dust--here, on this spot,
    where the shadows of death surround me, and
    from which I see my early grave in an unanointed
    soil open to receive me--even here,
    encircled by these terrors, that hope which
    first beckoned me to the perilous sea on
    which I have been wrecked, still consoles, animates, and enraptures
me.

No; I do not despair of my poor old country--her peace, her liberty,
her glory.

    For that country I can do no more than bid her hope.
    To lift this island up--to make her a
    benefactor to humanity, instead of
    being, as she is now, the meanest beggar in the
    world--to restore to her her native
    powers and her ancient constitution--this
    has been my ambition, and this ambition has
    been my crime. Judged by the law of
    England, I know this crime entails upon me the
    penalty of death; but the history of Ireland
    explains that crime and justifies it. Judged
    by that history, I am no criminal, you
    (addressing Mr.
    M'Manus) are no criminal, you (addressing Mr.
    O'Donoghue) are no criminal, and we
    deserve no punishment; judged by
    that history, the treason of which I stand
    convicted loses all its guilt, has been
    sanctified as a duty, and will be enobled
    as a sacrifice. With these sentiments I await
    the sentence of the court. I have
    done what I felt to be my duty. I have spoken
    now, as I did on every other occasion
    during my short life, what I felt to be the
    truth. I now bid farewell to the country of my
    birth--of my passions--of my death; a
    country whose misfortunes have invoked my sympathies--whose factions
I sought to quell--whose intelligence I prompted to a lofty aim--whose
freedom has been my fatal dream.

To that country I now offer as a pledge of the love I bore her, and
of the sincerity with which I thought and spoke, and struggled for
her freedom, the life of a young heart; and with that life, the
hopes, the honours, the endearments of a happy, a prosperous, and
honourable home.

    
    The fen had every kind of bloom,
    And for every kind there was a face,
    And a voice that has sounded in my room
    Across the sill from the outer gloom.
    Each came singly unto her place,
    But all came every night with the mist;
    And often they brought so much to say
    Of things of moment to which, they wist,
    One so lonely was fain to list,
    That the stars were almost faded away
    Before the last went, heavy with dew,
    Back to the place from which she came--
    Where the bird was before it flew,
    Where the flower was before it grew,
    Where bird and flower were one and the same.
    And thus it is I know so well
    Why the flower has odor, the bird has song.
    You have only to ask me, and I can tell.
    No, not vainly there did I dwell,
    Nor vainly listen all the night long.


A Dream Pang

    I HAD withdrawn in forest, and my song
    Was swallowed up in leaves that blew alway;
    And to the forest edge you came one day
    (This was my dream) and looked and pondered long,
    But did not enter, though the wish was strong:
    You shook your pensive head as who should say,
    'I dare not--too far in his footsteps stray--
    He must seek me would he undo the wrong.
    Not far, but near, I stood and saw it all
    Behind low boughs the trees let down outside;
    And the sweet pang it cost me not to call
    And tell you that I saw does still abide.
    But 'tis not true that thus I dwelt aloof,
    For the wood wakes, and you are here for proof.


In Neglect

    THEY leave us so to the way we took,
    As two in whom they were proved mistaken,
    That we sit sometimes in the wayside nook,
    With mischievous, vagrant, seraphic look,
    And try if we cannot feel forsaken.


The Vantage Point

    IF tired of trees I seek again mankind,
    Well I know where to hie me--in the dawn,
    To a slope where the cattle keep the lawn.
    There amid lolling juniper reclined,
    Myself unseen, I see in white defined
    Far off the homes of men, and farther still,
    The graves of men on an opposing hill,
    Living or dead, whichever are to mind.
    And if by moon I have too much of these,
    I have but to turn on my arm, and lo,
    The sun-burned hillside sets my face aglow,
    My breathing shakes the bluet like a breeze,
    I smell the earth, I smell the bruisèd plant,
    I look into the crater of the ant.


Mowing

    THERE was never a sound beside the wood but one,
    And that was my long scythe whispering to the ground.
    What was it it whispered? I knew not well myself;
    Perhaps it was something about the heat of the sun,
    Something, perhaps, about the lack of sound--
    And that was why it whispered and did not speak.
    It was no dream of the gift of idle hours,
    Or easy gold at the hand of fay or elf:
    Anything more than the truth would have seemed too weak
    To the earnest love that laid the swale in rows,
    Not without feeble-pointed spikes of flowers
    (Pale orchises), and scared a bright green snake.
    The fact is the sweetest dream that labor knows.
    My long scythe whispered and left the hay to make.


Going for Water

    THE well was dry beside the door,
    And so we went with pail and can
    Across the fields behind the house
    To seek the brook if still it ran;
    Not loth to have excuse to go,
    Because the autumn eve was fair
    (Though chill), because the fields were ours,
    And by the brook our woods were there.
    We ran as if to meet the moon
    That slowly dawned behind the trees,
    The barren boughs without the leaves,
    Without the birds, without the breeze.
    But once within the wood, we paused
    Like gnomes that hid us from the moon,
    Ready to run to hiding new
    With laughter when she found us soon.
    Each laid on other a staying hand
    To listen ere we dared to look,
    And in the hush we joined to make
    We heard, we knew we heard the brook.
    A note as from a single place,
    A slender tinkling fall that made
    Now drops that floated on the pool
    Like pearls, and now a silver blade.


Revelation

    WE make ourselves a place apart
    Behind light words that tease and flout,
    But oh, the agitated heart
    Till someone find us really out.
    'Tis pity if the case require
    (Or so we say) that in the end
    We speak the literal to inspire
    The understanding of a friend.
    But so with all, from babes that play
    At hide-and-seek to God afar,
    So all who hide too well away
    Must speak and tell us where they are.


The Trial by Existence

    EVEN the bravest that are slain
    Shall not dissemble their surprise
    On waking to find valor reign,
    Even as on earth, in paradise;
    And where they sought without the sword
    Wide fields of asphodel fore'er,
    To find that the utmost reward
    Of daring should be still to dare.
    The light of heaven falls whole and white
    And is not shattered into dyes,
    The light for ever is morning light;
    The hills are verdured pasture-wise;
    The angel hosts with freshness go,
    And seek with laughter what to brave;--
    And binding all is the hushed snow
    Of the far-distant breaking wave.
    And from a cliff-top is proclaimed
    The gathering of the souls for birth,
    The trial by existence named,
    The obscuration upon earth.
    And the slant spirits trooping by
    In streams and cross- and counter-streams
    Can but give ear to that sweet cry
    For its suggestion of what dreams!
    And the more loitering are turned
    To view once more the sacrifice
    Of those who for some good discerned
    Will gladly give up paradise.
    And a white shimmering concourse rolls
    Toward the throne to witness there
    The speeding of devoted souls
    Which God makes his especial care.
    And none are taken but who will,
    Having first heard the life read out
    That opens earthward, good and ill,
    Beyond the shadow of a doubt;
    And very beautifully God limns,
    And tenderly, life's little dream,
    But naught extenuates or dims,
    Setting the thing that is supreme.
    Nor is there wanting in the press
    Some spirit to stand simply forth,
    Heroic in its nakedness,
    Against the uttermost of earth.
    The tale of earth's unhonored things
    Sounds nobler there than 'neath the sun;
    And the mind whirls and the heart sings,
    And a shout greets the daring one.
    But always God speaks at the end:
    'One thought in agony of strife
    The bravest would have by for friend,
    The memory that he chose the life;
    But the pure fate to which you go
    Admits no memory of choice,
    Or the woe were not earthly woe
    To which you give the assenting voice.'
    And so the choice must be again,
    But the last choice is still the same;
    And the awe passes wonder then,
    And a hush falls for all acclaim.
    And God has taken a flower of gold
    And broken it, and used therefrom
    The mystic link to bind and hold
    Spirit to matter till death come.
    'Tis of the essence of life here,
    Though we choose greatly, still to lack
    The lasting memory at all clear,
    That life has for us on the wrack
    Nothing but what we somehow chose;
    Thus are we wholly stripped of pride
    In the pain that has but one close,
    Bearing it crushed and mystified.


In Equal Sacrifice

    THUS of old the Douglas did:
    He left his land as he was bid
    With the royal heart of Robert the Bruce
    In a golden case with a golden lid,
    To carry the same to the Holy Land;
    By which we see and understand
    That that was the place to carry a heart
    At loyalty and love's command,
    And that was the case to carry it in.
    The Douglas had not far to win
    Before he came to the land of Spain,
    Where long a holy war had been
    Against the too-victorious Moor;
    And there his courage could not endure
    Not to strike a blow for God
    Before he made his errand sure.
    And ever it was intended so,
    That a man for God should strike a blow,
    No matter the heart he has in charge
    For the Holy Land where hearts should go.
    But this young man was clothed in the
    plain blue calico of the fellah,
    and on his head was a coarse brown fez
    of raw wool. Yet round the brown
    fez was a green cloth, which may
    only be worn by one who has
    been a pilgrimage to
    Mecca.
    
    "Nehar-ak koom said--God be with you!"
    said Dicky in Arabic.
    
    "Nehar-ak said, efendi--God
    prosper thy greatness!" was the
    reply, in a voice as full as a man's,
    but as soft as a woman's--an
    unusual thing in an Arab. "Have you travelled
    far?" asked Dicky.
    
    "From the Pyramid of Maydoum, effendi," was the quiet reply.

Dicky laughed.

    "A poor tavern; cold sleeping there,
    Mahommed."
    "The breath of Allah is warm," answered the
    Arab. Dicky liked the lad's answer. Putting
    a hand in his saddle-bag, he drew out a
    cake of dourha bread and some onions--for
    he made shift to live as the people lived,
    lest he should be caught unawares some
    time, and die of the remembrance of too
    much luxury in the midst of frugal
    fare.
    
    "Plenty be in your home, Mahommed!" he said,
    and held out the bread and onions.
    
    The slim hands came up at once and took the food,
    the eyes flashed a strange look at Dicky.
    "God give you plenty upon your plenty,
    effendi, and save your soul and the souls
    of your wife and children, if it be your will,
    effendi!"
    "I have no wife, praise be to God," said
    Dicky; "but if I had, her soul would be saved
    before my own, or I'm a dervish!" Then
    something moved him further, and he unbuttoned
    his pocket--for there really was a button
    to Dicky's pocket. He drew out a five-piastre
    piece, and held it down to the young Arab.
    "For the home-coming after Mecca," he said,
    and smiled.
    
    The young Arab drew back. "I will eat
    thy bread, but no more, effendi," he said
    quickly.
    
    "Then you're not what I thought you were,"
    said Dicky under his breath, and, with a quick
    good-bye, struck a heel into the horse's side
    and galloped away toward El Medineh.
    
    In El Medineh Dicky went about his business--a
    bitter business it was, as all Egypt came to know.

For four days he pursued it, without halting and in some danger,
for, disguise himself as he would in his frequenting of the cafes,
his Arabic was not yet wholly perfect.

    Sometimes he went
    about in European
    dress, and that was
    equally dangerous, for in
    those days the Fayoum was
    a nest of brigandage and
    murder, and an
    European--an infidel dog--was
    fair game.
    
    But Dicky had two
    friends--the village
    barber, and the moghassil
    of the dead, or
    body-washer, who
    were in his pay; and for
    the moment they were
    loyal to him. For
    his purpose, too,
    they were the most useful
    of mercenaries: for
    the duties of a
    barber are those
    of a valet-de-chambre, a
    doctor, registrar and
    sanitary officer
    combined; and his coadjutor
    in information and gossip was the moghassil, who sits and waits
for some one to die, as a raven on a housetop waits for carrion.
Dicky was patient, but as the days went by and nothing came of all
his searching, his lips tightened and his eyes became more restless.
One day, as he sat in his doorway twisting and turning things in
his mind, with an ugly knot in his temper, the barber came to him
quickly.
"Saadat el basha, I have found the Englishwoman, by the mercy of
Allah!"
Dicky looked at Achmed Hariri for a moment without stirring or
speaking; his lips relaxed, his eyes softening with satisfaction.
"She is living?" 
"But living, saadat el basha."
Dicky started to his feet. "At the mudirieh?"
"At the house of Azra, the seller of sherbet, saadat el basha."
"When did she leave the mudirieh?"And when they went home
    To hide in their burrow,
    They took them along
    To play with to-morrow.
    When you came on death,
    Did you not come flower-guided
    Like the elves in the wood?
    I remember that I did.
    But I recognised death
    With sorrow and dread,
    And I hated and hate
    The spoils of the dead.


Pan with Us

    PAN came out of the woods one day,--
    His skin and his hair and his eyes were gray,
    The gray of the moss of walls were they,--
    And stood in the sun and looked his fill
    At wooded valley and wooded hill.
    He stood in the zephyr, pipes in hand,
    On a height of naked pasture land;
    In all the country he did command
    He saw no smoke and he saw no roof.
    That was well! and he stamped a hoof.
    His heart knew peace, for none came here
    To this lean feeding save once a year
    Someone to salt the half-wild steer,
    Or homespun children with clicking pails
    Who see no little they tell no tales.
    He tossed his pipes, too hard to teach
    A new-world song, far out of reach,
    For a sylvan sign that the blue jay's screech
    And the whimper of hawks beside the sun
    Were music enough for him, for one.
    Times were changed from what they were:
    Such pipes kept less of power to stir
    The fruited bough of the juniper
    And the fragile bluets clustered there
    Than the merest aimless breath of air.
    They were pipes of pagan mirth,
    And the world had found new terms of worth.
    He laid him down on the sun-burned earth
    And ravelled a flower and looked away--
    Play? Play?--What should he play?


The Demiurge's Laugh

    IT was far in the sameness of the wood;
    I was running with joy on the Demon's trail,
    Though I knew what I hunted was no true god.
    It was just as the light was beginning to fail
    That I suddenly heard--all I needed to hear:
    It has lasted me many and many a year.
    The sound was behind me instead of before,
    A sleepy sound, but mocking half,
    As of one who utterly couldn't care.
    The Demon arose from his wallow to laugh,
    Brushing the dirt from his eye as he went;
    And well I knew what the Demon meant.
    I shall not forget how his laugh rang out.
    I felt as a fool to have been so caught,
    And checked my steps to make pretence
    It was something among the leaves I sought
    (Though doubtful whether he stayed to see).
    Thereafter I sat me against a tree.


Now Close the Windows

    NOW close the windows and hush all the fields;
    If the trees must, let them silently toss;
    No bird is singing now, and if there is,
    Be it my loss.
    It will be long ere the marshes resume,
    It will be long ere the earliest bird:
    So close the windows and not hear the wind,
    But see all wind-stirred.


A Line-storm Song

    THE line-storm clouds fly tattered and swift,
    The road is forlorn all day,
    Where a myriad snowy quartz stones lift,
    And the hoof-prints vanish away.
    The roadside flowers, too wet for the bee,
    Expend their bloom in vain.
    Come over the hills and far with me,
    And be my love in the rain.
    The birds have less to say for themselves
    In the wood-world's torn despair
    Than now these numberless years the elves,
    Although they are no less there:
    All song of the woods is crushed like some
    Wild, easily shattered rose.
    Come, be my love in the wet woods; come,
    Where the boughs rain when it blows.
    There is the gale to urge behind
    And bruit our singing down,
    And the shallow waters aflutter with wind
    From which to gather your gown.
    What matter if we go clear to the west,
    And come not through dry-shod?
    For wilding brooch shall wet your breast
    The rain-fresh goldenrod.
    Oh, never this whelming east wind swells
    But it seems like the sea's return
    To the ancient lands where it left the shells
    Before the age of the fern;
    And it seems like the time when after doubt
    Our love came back amain.
    Oh, come forth into the storm and rout
    And be my love in the rain.


October

    O HUSHED October morning mild,
    Thy leaves have ripened to the fall;
    To-morrow's wind, if it be wild,
    Should waste them all.
    The crows above the forest call;
    To-morrow they may form and go.
    O hushed October morning mild,
    Begin the hours of this day slow,
    Make the day seem to us less brief.
    Hearts not averse to being beguiled,
    Beguile us in the way you know;
    Release one leaf at break of day;
    At noon release another leaf;
    One from our trees, one far away;
    Retard the sun with gentle mist;
    Enchant the land with amethyst.
    Slow, slow!
    For the grapes' sake, if they were all,
    Whose leaves already are burnt with frost,
    Whose clustered fruit must else be lost--
    For the grapes' sake along the wall.


The attempt, however, was a failure; the jury-panel had not been
juggled as effectively as usual, and a disagreement of the jury was
the consequence.

    The crown, however, had no idea of relaxing
    its grasp of its victim; after
    John Martin's conviction O'Doherty was put
    forward again,
    and a new jury selected
    to try him.
    Again were the government defeated; the second
    jury like the first refused to agree to a
    verdict of guilty, and were discharged without
    convicting the prisoner.
    A third time was
    O'Doherty arraigned, and this
    time the relentless hatred of his
    persecutors was
    gratified by a verdict
    of guilty. The speech delivered by Mr.
    O'Doherty after conviction was as follows:--
    
    Thou didst not know, who tottered, wandering on high,
    That fate had made thee for the pleasure of the wind,
    With those great careless wings,
    Nor yet did I.
    And there were other things:
    It seemed God let thee flutter from his gentle clasp:
    Then fearful he had let thee win
    Too far beyond him to be gathered in,
    Snatched thee, o'er eager, with ungentle grasp.
    Ah! I remember me
    How once conspiracy was rife
    Against my life--
    The languor of it and the dreaming fond;
    Surging, the grasses dizzied me of thought,
    The breeze three odors brought,
    And a gem-flower waved in a wand!
    Then when I was distraught
    And could not speak,
    Sidelong, full on my cheek,
    What should that reckless zephyr fling
    But the wild touch of thy dye-dusty wing!
    I found that wing broken to-day!
    For thou are dead, I said,
    And the strange birds say.
    I found it with the withered leaves
    Under the eaves.




Reluctance

   OUT through the fields and the woods
    And over the walls I have wended;
    I have climbed the hills of view
    And looked at the world, and descended;
    I have come by the highway home,
    And lo, it is ended.
    The leaves are all dead on the ground,
    Save those that the oak is keeping
    To ravel them one by one
    And let them go scraping and creeping
    Out over the crusted snow,
    When others are sleeping.
    She had as good a house as the Omdah, and
    she had two female slaves.
    
    Dicky Donovan was of that rare type of
    man who has the keenest desire to
    know all things, good or evil, though he was fastidious when it
came to doing them.Ah, when to the heart of man
    Was it ever less than a treason
    To go with the drift of things,
    To yield with a grace to reason,
    And bow and accept and accept the end
    Of a love or a season?