If this full programme should be carried out we should have built or
building in 1921, according to the estimates of survival and standards of
classification followed by the General Board of the Department, an
effective navy consisting of twenty-seven battleships of the first line,
six battle cruisers, twenty-five battleships of the second line, ten
armored cruisers, thirteen scout cruisers, five first class cruisers, three
second class cruisers, ten third class cruisers, one hundred and eight
destroyers, eighteen fleet submarines, one hundred and fifty-seven coast
submarines, six monitors, twenty gunboats, four supply ships, fifteen fuel
ships, four transports, three tenders to torpedo vessels, eight vessels of
special types, and two ammunition ships. This would be a navy fitted to our
needs and worthy of our traditions.

But armies and instruments of war are only part of what has to be
considered if we are to provide for the supreme matter of national
self-sufficiency and security in all its aspects. There are other great
matters which will be thrust upon our attention whether we will or not.
There is, for example, a very pressing question of trade and shipping
involved in this great problem of national adequacy. It is necessary for
many weighty reasons of national efficiency and development that we should
have a great merchant marine. The great merchant fleet we once used to make
us rich, that great body of sturdy sailors who used to carry our flag into
every sea, and who were the pride and often the bulwark of the nation, we
have almost driven out of existence by inexcusable neglect and indifference
and by a hopelessly blind and provincial policy of so-called economic
protection. It is high time we repaired our mistake and resumed our
commercial independence on the seas.

For it is a question of independence. If other nations go to war or seek to
hamper each other's commerce, our merchants, it seems, are at their mercy,
to do with as they please. We must use their ships, and use them as they
determine. We have not ships enough of our own. We cannot handle our own
commerce on the seas. Our independence is provincial, and is only on land
and within our own borders. We are not likely to be permitted to use even
the ships of other nations in rivalry of their own trade, and are without
means to extend our commerce even where the doors are wide open and our
goods desired. Such a situation is not to be endured. It is of capital
importance not only that the United States should be its own carrier on the
seas and enjoy the economic independence which only an adequate merchant
marine would give it, but also that the American hemisphere as a whole
should enjoy a like independence and self-sufficiency, if it is not to be
drawn into the tangle of European affairs. Without such independence the
whole question of our political unity and self-determination is very
seriously clouded and complicated indeed.

Moreover, we can develop no true or effective American policy without ships
of our own,--not ships of war, but ships of peace, carrying goods and
carrying much more: creating friendships and rendering indispensable
services to all interests on this side the water. They must move constantly
back and forth between the Americas. They are the only shuttles that can
weave the delicate fabric of sympathy, comprehension, confidence, and
mutual dependence in which we wish to clothe our policy of America for
Americans.

The task of building up an adequate merchant marine for America private
capital must ultimately undertake and achieve, as it has undertaken and
achieved every other like task amongst us in the past, with admirable
enterprise, intelligence, and vigor; and it seems to me a manifest dictate
of wisdom that we should promptly remove every legal obstacle that may
stand in the way of this much to be desired revival of our old independence
and should facilitate in every possible way the building, purchase, and
American registration of ships. But capital cannot accomplish this great
task of a sudden. It must embark upon it by degrees, as the opportunities
of trade develop. Something must be done at once; done to open routes and
develop opportunities where they are as yet undeveloped; done to open the
arteries of trade where the currents have not yet learned to
run,-especially between the two American continents, where they are,
singularly enough, yet to be created and quickened; and it is evident that
only the government can undertake such beginnings and assume the initial
financial risks. When the risk has passed and private capital begins to
find its way in sufficient abundance into these new channels, the
government may withdraw. But it cannot omit to begin. It should take the
first steps, and should take them at once. Our goods must not lie piled up
at our ports and stored upon side tracks in freight cars which are daily
needed on the roads; must not be left without means of transport to any
foreign quarter. We must not await the permission of foreign ship-owners
and foreign governments to send them where we will.

With a view to meeting these pressing necessities of our commerce and
availing ourselves at the earliest possible moment of the present
unparalleled opportunity of linking the two Americas together in bonds of
mutual interest and service, an opportunity which may never return again if
we miss it now, proposals will be made to the present Congress for the
purchase or construction of ships to be owned and directed by the
government similar to those made to the last Congress, but modified in some
essential particulars. I recommend these proposals to you for your prompt
acceptance with the more confidence because every month that has elapsed
since the former proposals were made has made the necessity for such action
more and more manifestly imperative. That need was then foreseen; it is now
acutely felt and everywhere realized by those for whom trade is waiting but
who can find no conveyance for their goods. LUS. Good counsel, passing good
instruction; Follow it, daughter. Now, I promise you, I have not heard
such an oration This many a day. What remains to do?

Y. LUS. Sir, I was call'd as witness to this matter, I may be gone for
aught that I can see.

JUS. Nay, stay, my friend, we must examine you.
What can you say concerning this debate Betwixt young Master Arthur and his
wife?

Y. LUS. Faith, just as much, I think, as you can say, And that's just
nothing.

JUS. How, nothing? Come, depose him; take his oath; Swear him, I say;
take his confession.

O. ART. What can you say, sir, in this doubtful case?

Y. LUS. Why, nothing, sir.

JUS. We cannot take him in contrary tales, For he says nothing still, and
that same nothing Is that which we have stood on all this while; He
hath confess'd even all, for all is nothing.
This is your witness, he hath witness'd nothing Since nothing, then,
so plainly is confess'd, And we by cunning answers and by wit Have
wrought him to confess nothing to us, Write his confession.

O. ART. Why, what should we write?

JUS. Why, nothing: heard you not as well as I What he confess'd? I say, write
nothing down.
Mistress, we have dismissed you; love your husband, Which, whilst you do,
you shall not hate your husband.
Bring him before me; I will urge him with This gentleman's express confession
Against you; send him to me; I'll not fail To keep just nothing in my
memory.
And, sir, now that we have examin'd you, We likewise here discharge you with
good leave.
Now, Master Arthur and Master Lusam too, Come in with me; unless the man
were here, Whom most especially the cause concerns, We cannot end
this quarrel: but come near, And we will taste a glass of our March
beer.

[_Exeunt_.

SCENE III.

_A Room in Mistress Mary's House_.

_Enter_ MISTRESS MARY, MISTRESS SPLAY, _and_ BRABO.

MRS MA. I prythee, tell me, Brabo, what planet, think'st thou,
governed at my conception, that I live thus openly to the world?

BRA. Two planets reign'd at once; Venus, that's you, And Mars, that's I,
were in conjunction.

MRS SPLAY. Prythee, prythee, in faith, that conjunction copulative
is that part of speech that I live by.
BRA. Ha, ha! to see the world! we swaggerers, That live by oaths
and big-mouth'd menaces, Are now reputed for the tallest men:
He that hath now a black moustachio, Reaching from ear to ear, or
turning up, _Puncto reverso_, bristling towards the eye; He that
can hang two handsome tools at his side, Go in disguis'd attire,
wear iron enough, Is held a tall man and a soldier.
He that with greatest grace can swear Gog's-zounds, Or in a tavern
make a drunken fray, Can cheat at dice, swagger in bawdy-houses,
Wear velvet on his face, and with a grace Can face it out with,--As
I am a soldier!
He that can clap his sword upon the board, He's a brave man--and
such a man am I.
MRS MA. She that with kisses can both kill and cure, That lives by
love, that swears by nothing else But by a kiss, which is no common
oath; That lives by lying, and yet oft tells truth; That takes most
pleasure when she takes most pains; She's a good wench, my boy, and
so am I.
MRS SPLAY. She that is past it, and prays for them that may--
BRA. Is an old bawd, as you are, Mistress Splay.
MRS SPLAY. O, do not name that name; do you not know, That I could
ne'er endure to hear that name?
But, if your man would leave us, I would read The lesson that last
night I promis'd you.
MRS MA. I prythee, leave us, we would be alone.
BRA. And will, and must: if you bid me begone, I will withdraw, and
draw on any he, That in the world's wide round dare cope with
me.
Mistress, farewell! to none I never speak So kind a word. My
salutations are, Farewell, and be hang'd!These two sums, amounting together to fifty-six millions, if added to the
revenues of the second half of the fiscal year, would yield the Treasury at
the end of the year an available balance Of $76,644,605-78.

The additional revenues required to carry out the programme of military and
naval preparation of which I have spoken, would, as at present estimated,
be for the fiscal year, 1917, $93,800,000. Those figures, taken with the
figures for the present fiscal year which I have already given, disclose
our financial problem for the year 1917. Assuming that the taxes imposed by
the emergency revenue act and the present duty on sugar are to be
discontinued, and that the balance at the close of the present fiscal year
will be only $20,644,605.78, that the disbursements for the Panama Canal
will again be about twenty-five millions, and that the additional
expenditures for the army and navy are authorized by the Congress, the
deficit in the general fund of the Treasury on the thirtieth of June, 1917,
will be nearly two hundred and thirty-five millions. To this sum at least
fifty millions should be added to represent a safe working balance for the
Treasury, and twelve millions to include the usual deficiency estimates in
1917; and these additions would make a total deficit of some two hundred
and ninety-seven millions. If the present taxes should be continued
throughout this year and the next, however, there would be a balance in the
Treasury of some seventy-six and a half millions at the end of the present
fiscal year, and a deficit at the end of the next year of only some fifty
millions, or, reckoning in sixty-two millions for deficiency appropriations
and a safe Treasury balance at the end of the year, a total deficit of some
one hundred and twelve millions. The obvious moral of the figures is that
it is a plain counsel of prudence to continue all of the present taxes or
their equivalents, and confine ourselves to the problem of providing one
hundred and twelve millions of new revenue rather than two hundred and
ninety-seven millions.

How shall we obtain the new revenue? We are frequently reminded that there
are many millions of bonds which the Treasury is authorized under existing
law to sell to reimburse the sums paid out of current revenues for the
construction of the Panama Canal; and it is true that bonds to the amount
of approximately $222,000,000 are now available for that purpose. Prior to
1913, $134,631,980 of these bonds had actually been sold to recoup the
expenditures at the Isthmus; and now constitute a considerable item of the
public debt. But I, for one, do not believe that the people of this country
approve of postponing the payment of their bills. Borrowing money is
short-sighted finance. It can be justified only when permanent things are
to be accomplished which many generations will certainly benefit by and
which it seems hardly fair that a single generation should pay for. The
objects we are now proposing to spend money for cannot be so classified,
except in the sense that everything wisely done may be said to be done in
the interest of posterity as well as in our own. It seems to me a clear
dictate of prudent statesmanship and frank finance that in what we are now,
I hope, about to undertake we should pay as we go. The people of the
country are entitled to know just what burdens of taxation they are to
carry, and to know from the outset, now. The new bills should be paid by
internal taxation.

To what sources, then, shall we turn? This is so peculiarly a question
which the gentlemen of the House of Representatives are expected under the
Constitution to propose an answer to that you will hardly expect me to do
more than discuss it in very general terms. We should be following an
almost universal example of modern governments if we were to draw the
greater part or even the whole of the revenues we need from the income
taxes. By somewhat lowering the present limits of exemption and the figure
at which the surtax shall begin to be imposed, and by increasing, step by
step throughout the present graduation, the surtax itself, the income taxes
as at present apportioned would yield sums sufficient to balance the books
of the Treasury at the end of the fiscal year 1917 without anywhere making
the burden unreasonably or oppressively heavy. The precise reckonings are
fully and accurately set out in the report of the Secretary of the Treasury
which will be immediately laid before you.

And there are many additional sources of revenue which can justly be
resorted to without hampering the industries of the country or putting any
too great charge upon individual expenditure. A tax of one cent per gallon
on gasoline and naphtha would yield, at the present estimated production,
$10,000,000; a tax of fifty cents per horse power on automobiles and
internal explosion engines, $15,000,000; a stamp tax on bank cheques,
probably $18,000,000; a tax of twenty-five cents per ton on pig iron,
$10,000,000; a tax of twenty-five cents per ton on fabricated iron and
steel, probably $10,000,000. In a country of great industries like this it
ought to be easy to distribute the burdens of taxation without making them
anywhere bear too heavily or too exclusively upon any one set of persons or
undertakings. What is clear is, that the industry of this generation should
pay the bills of this generation.

I have spoken to you to-day, Gentlemen, upon a single theme, the thorough
preparation of the nation to care for its own security and to make sure of
entire freedom to play the impartial role in this hemisphere and in the
world which we all believe to have been providentially assigned to it. I
have had in my mind no thought of any immediate or particular danger
arising out of our relations with other nations. We are at peace with all
the nations of the world, and there is reason to hope that no question in
controversy between this and other Governments will lead to any serious
breach of amicable relations, grave as some differences of attitude and
policy have been land may yet turn out to be. I am sorry to say that the
gravest threats against our national peace and safety have been uttered
within our own borders. There are citizens of the United States, I blush to
admit, born under other flags but welcomed under our generous
naturalization laws to the full freedom and opportunity of America, who
have poured the poison of disloyalty into the very arteries of our national
life; who have sought to bring the authority and good name of our
Government into contempt, to destroy our industries wherever they thought
it effective for their vindictive purposes to strike at them, and to debase
our politics to the uses of foreign intrigue. Their number is not great as
compared with the whole number of those sturdy hosts by which our nation
has been enriched in recent generations out of virile foreign stock; but it
is great enough to have brought deep disgrace upon us and to have made it
necessary that we should promptly make use of processes of law by which we
may be purged of their corrupt distempers. America never witnessed anything
like this before. It never dreamed it possible that men sworn into its own
citizenship, men drawn out of great free stocks such as supplied some of
the best and strongest elements of that little, but how heroic, nation that
in a high day of old staked its very life to free itself from every
entanglement that had darkened the fortunes of the older nations and set up
a new standard here, that men of such origins and such free choices of
allegiance would ever turn in malign reaction against the Government and
people who had welcomed and nurtured them and seek to make this proud
country once more a hotbed of European passion. A little while ago such a
thing would have seemed incredible. Because it was incredible we made no
preparation for it. We would have been almost ashamed to prepare for it, as
if we were suspicious of ourselves, our own comrades and neighbors! But the
ugly and incredible thing has actually come about and we are without
adequate federal laws to deal with it. His face was clean shaven, and he had
a wide mouth and rather small dark eyes, set quite too near together: Mr.
Braham wore a brown frock coat buttoned across his breast, with a
rose-bud in the upper buttonhole, and light pantaloons.
A diamond stud was seen to flash from his bosom; and as he seated himself
and drew off his gloves a heavy seal ring was displayed upon his white left
hand. Mr. Braham having seated himself, deliberately surveyed the
entire house, made a remark to one of his assistants, and then taking an
ivory-handled knife from his pocket began to pare his finger nails, rocking
his chair backwards and forwards slowly.

A moment later Judge O'Shaunnessy entered at the rear door and took
his seat in one of the chairs behind the bench; a gentleman in black broadcloth,
with sandy hair, inclined to curl, a round; reddish and rather jovial
face, sharp rather than intellectual, and with a self-sufficient air.
His career had nothing remarkable in it. He was descended from a
long line of Irish Kings, and he was the first one of them who had ever come
into his kingdom--the kingdom of such being the city of New York. He had,
in fact, descended so far and so low that he found himself, when a boy, a
sort of street Arab in that city; but he had ambition and native
shrewdness, and he speedily took to boot-polishing, and newspaper hawking,
became the office and errand boy of a law firm, picked up knowledge enough
to get some employment in police courts, was admitted to the bar, became
a rising young politician, went to the legislature, and was finally elected
to the bench which he now honored.
In this democratic country he was obliged to conceal his royalty under
a plebeian aspect. Judge O'Shaunnessy never had a lucrative practice nor
a large salary but he had prudently laid away money-believing that a
dependant judge can never be impartial--and he had lands and houses
to the value of three or four hundred thousand dollars.

Had he not helped to build and furnish this very Court House? Did he
not know that the very "spittoon" which his judgeship used cost the city
the sum of one thousand dollars?

As soon as the judge was seated, the court was opened, with the "oi yis,
oi yis" of the officer in his native language, the case called, and the
sheriff was directed to bring in the prisoner. In the midst of a
profound hush Laura entered, leaning on the arm of the officer, and was
conducted to a seat by her counsel. She was followed by her mother and
by Washington Hawkins, who were given seats near her.

Laura was very pale, but this pallor heightened the lustre of her large eyes
and gave a touching sadness to her expressive face. She was dressed in simple
black, with exquisite taste, and without an ornament. The thin lace vail
which partially covered her face did not so much conceal as heighten her
beauty. She would not have entered a drawing room with more self-poise,
nor a church with more haughty humility. There was in her manner or face
neither shame nor boldness, and when she took her seat in fall view of
half the spectators, her eyes were downcast. A murmur of admiration
ran through the room. The newspaper reporters made their pencils fly. Mr.
Braham again swept his eyes over the house as if in approval. When Laura at
length raised her eyes a little, she saw Philip and Harry within the bar,
but she gave no token of recognition.

The clerk then read the indictment, which was in the usual form. It charged
Laura Hawkins, in effect, with the premeditated murder of George Selby, by
shooting him with a pistol, with a revolver, shotgun, rifle, repeater,
breech-loader, cannon, six-shooter, with a gun, or some other, weapon;
with killing him with a slung-shot, a bludgeon, carving knife,
bowie knife, pen knife, rolling pin, car, hook, dagger, hair pin,
with a hammer, with a screw-driver; with a nail, and with all other
weapons and utensils whatsoever, at the Southern hotel and in all
other hotels and places wheresoever, on the thirteenth day of March
and all other days of the Christian era wheresoever.

Laura stood while the long indictment was read; and at the end, in response
to the inquiry, of the judge, she said in a clear, low voice; "Not
guilty."It is the more imperatively
necessary, therefore, that we should promptly devise means for doing what
we have not yet done: that we should give intelligent federal aid and
stimulation to industrial and vocational education, as we have long done in
the large field of our agricultural industry; that, at the same time that
we safeguard and conserve the natural resources of the country we should
put them at the disposal of those who will use them promptly and
intelligently, as was sought to be done in the admirable bills submitted to
the last Congress from its committees on the public lands, bills which I
earnestly recommend in principle to your consideration; that we should put
into early operation some provision for rural credits which will add to the
extensive borrowing facilities already afforded the farmer by the Reserve
Bank Act, adequate instrumentalities by which long credits may be obtained
on land mortgages; and that we should study more carefully than they have
hitherto been studied the right adaptation of our economic arrangements to
changing conditions.

Many conditions about which we I-lave repeatedly legislated are being
altered from decade to decade, it is evident, under our very eyes, and are
likely to change even more rapidly and more radically in the days
immediately ahead of us, when peace has returned to the world and the
nations of Europe once more take up their tasks of commerce and industry
with the energy of those who must bestir themselves to build anew. Just
what these changes will be no one can certainly foresee or confidently
predict. There are no calculable, because no stable, elements in the
problem. He remembered that, and was glad he never yielded and played on
Sunday.

"Well, at last, what do you think happened? Why the people gave him a towering,
illustrious position, a grand, imposing position. And what do you think it
was? What should you say it was, children? It was Senator of the United
States!

That poor little boy that loved his Sunday School became that man.
That man stands before you! All that he is, he owes to the Sunday
School.The transportation problem is
an exceedingly serious and pressing one in this country. There has from
time to time of late been reason to fear that our railroads would not much
longer be able to cope with it successfully, as at present equipped and
coordinated I suggest that it would be wise to provide for a commission of
inquiry to ascertain by a thorough canvass of the whole question whether
our laws as at present framed and administered are as serviceable as they
might be in the solution of the problem. It is obviously a problem that
lies at the very foundation of our efficiency as a people. Such an inquiry
ought to draw out every circumstance and opinion worth considering and we
need to know all sides of the matter if we mean to do anything in the field
of federal legislation.

AMIN. _Quae caceris chartis deseruisse decet_.
Torn from your book! I'll tear it from your breech.
How say you, Mistress Virga, will you suffer _Hic puer bonae[11] indolis_
to tear His lessons, leaves, and lectures from his book?

1ST BOY.The question is not what
should we undo? It is, whether there is anything else we can do that would
supply us with effective means, in the very process of regulation, for
bettering the conditions under which the railroads are operated and for
making them more useful servants of the country as a whole. It seems to me
that it might be the part of wisdom, therefore, before further legislation
in this field is attempted, to look at the whole problem of coordination
and efficiency in the full light of a fresh assessment of circumstance and
opinion, as a guide to dealing with the several parts of it.

For what we are seeking now, what in my mind is the single thought of this
message, is national efficiency and security. We serve a great nation. We
should serve it in the spirit of its peculiar genius. It is the genius of
common men for self-government, industry, justice, liberty and peace. 
"Have you formed or expressed any opinion on this case, and do you know any
of the parties?"
"Not any," said Mr. Lanigan.
"Have you any conscientious objections to capital punishment?"
"No, sir, not to my knowledge."
"Have you read anything about this case?"In this we are no partisans but heralds and prophets of a new age.

***

State of the Union Address
Woodrow Wilson
December 5, 1916

GENTLEMEN OF THE CONGRESS:

In fulfilling at this time the duty laid upon me by the Constitution of
communicating to you from time to time information of the state of the
Union and recommending to your consideration such legislative measures as
may be judged necessary and expedient, I shall continue the practice, which
I hope has been acceptable to you, of leaving to the reports of the several
heads of the executive departments the elaboration of the detailed needs of
the public service and confine myself to those matters of more general
public policy with which it seems necessary and feasible to deal at the
present session of the Congress.

I realize the limitations of time under which you will necessarily act at
this session and shall make my suggestions as few as possible; but there
were some things left undone at the last session which there will now be
time to complete and which it seems necessary in the interest of the public
to do at once.

In the first place, it seems to me imperatively necessary that the earliest
possible consideration and action should be accorded the remaining measures
of the program of settlement and regulation which I had occasion to
recommend to you at the close of your last session in view of the public
dangers disclosed by the unaccommodated difficulties which then existed,
and which still unhappily continue to exist, between the railroads of the
country and their locomotive engineers, conductors and trainmen.

FUL. Adieu!

Come, let us go; I long to see, What the event of this new jest
will be.

_Enter_ YOUNG ARTHUR.

Y. ART. Good morrow, gentleman; saw you not this way, As you were
walking, Sir Aminadab?

ANS. Master Arthur, as I take it?
Y. ART. Sir, the same.
ANS. Sir, I desire your more familiar love:
Would I could bid myself unto your house, For I have wish'd for
your acquaintance long.
Y. ART. Sweet Master Anselm, I desire yours too; Will you come dine
with me at home to-morrow?
You shall be welcome, I assure you, sir.
ANS. I fear, sir, I shall prove too bold a guest.
Y. ART. You shall be welcome, if you bring your friend.
FUL. O Lord, sir, we shall be too troublesome.
Y. ART. Nay, now I will enforce a promise from you:
Shall I expect you?Third, the authorization of the appointment by the President of a small
body of men to observe actual results in experience of the adoption of the
eight-hour day in railway transportation alike for the men and for the
railroads.

Fourth, explicit approval by the Congress of the consideration by the
Interstate Commerce Commission of an increase of freight rates to meet such
additional expenditures by the railroads as may have been rendered
necessary by the adoption of the eight-hour day and which have not been
offset by administrative readjustments and economies, should the facts
disclosed justify the increase.

Fifth, an amendment of the existing Federal statute which provides for the
mediation, conciliation and arbitration of such controversies as the
present by adding to it a provision that, in case the methods of
accommodation now provided for should fail, a full public investigation of
the merits of every such dispute shall be instituted and completed before a
strike or lockout may lawfully be attempted.

Noble was gone, the Senator said:

"Well, to bring about a complexion of things like this was worth
coming West for."

CHAPTER LIV.

The case of the State of New York against Laura Hawkins was finally
set down for trial on the 15th day of February, less than a year
after the shooting of George Selby.
If the public had almost forgotten the existence of Laura and her
crime, they were reminded of all the details of the murder by the
newspapers, which for some days had been announcing the approaching
trial.The second and third of these recommendations the Congress immediately
acted on: it established the eight-hour day as the legal basis of work and
wages in train service and it authorized the appointment of a commission to
observe and report upon the practical results, deeming these the measures
most immediately needed; but it postponed action upon the other suggestions
until an opportunity should be offered for a more deliberate consideration
of them.

