"I'll slip out the first chance I get to-morrow," he thought.  "Right
after breakfast will be a good time."

Fortune favored him.  Soon after Wakely had brought in the morning
meal, he went out, locking the door after him.  Roy heard another door
close, and guessed rightly that his captor had left the building.

"Now's my chance!" thought the boy.

Putting into operation his knowledge of ropes and knots, and, by using
his strength, which was not small, he managed to loosen his bonds.  In
a few minutes he was standing in the middle of the room free.

"Now for the door!" Roy murmured.  "I wonder if I can break it open, or
work the lock?"

A moment's inspection served to show him that to open the portal was
out of the question.  The lock was a heavy one.  The door itself was
solid, not one with panels, and, after trying it cautiously, for Roy
did not want to make a noise, he decided he could not escape that way.

There was only one other means,--the window.  He went to it and looked
out.  It was fully sixty feet from the ground, and there was nothing,
in the shape of a lightning rod, or a rain-pipe leader to cling to.
Nothing but the bare tenement house wall, broken here and there with
other windows.

Roy leaned far out.  He knew it was useless to shout, as the noise from
the electric shop drowned all other sound.  Nor could he see any one
whose attention he might attract.

It was necessary for him that he work quickly, for Wakely, or one of
his friends, might return any moment.  Yet how could Roy get out of the
window and to the ground?

He looked about the room for something to aid him.  His first thought
was of the bed clothes.  He had read of persons tying sheets together,
after tearing them into strips, and so making a rope.  But there were
no sheets on his bed, merely a small blanket, for it was warm weather.
There was nothing in the shape of a rope in the room.  It looked as if
Roy would have to remain a prisoner.

Suddenly an idea came to him as he looked at his large valise which,
with his trunk, had been brought to his room.

"I have it!" he exclaimed.  "My lasso!  It's long enough!"

It did not take a minute to get it from the valise.  It was a long thin
lariat, strong enough to support several pounds, and he knew it would
reach over a hundred feet.

"Lucky I thought to bring that with me," he said, "though Billy Carew
laughed at me, and asked if I expected to rope any steers in the
streets of New York.  I guess he didn't figure on this."

It did not take Roy two minutes to fasten one end of the lariat to the
bed, which was the heaviest article in the room.  Then he tossed the
other end out of the window, noting that it touched the ground, with
several feet to spare.

"Now for it!" murmured the boy.  "It's a dangerous climb, to go down
hand over hand, but I think I can slide it!"

Testing the lasso to make sure it was securely fastened, he put one leg
over the window sill, grasped the lariat with both hands, and swung
himself off.

As he did so he heard the door of his room open, and some one rushed
in.  There was a cry of alarm.

"That's Wakely," reasoned Roy.  "He's discovered that I'm gone."

An instant later the face of Wakely appeared at the window.  He shouted
to Roy:

"Come back here!"

"Not much!"

"Then I'll cut the rope!"

Wakely drew out his knife, but, before he had a chance to use it he was
pulled back, and the face of Mortimer De Royster replaced that of Roy's
late captor.


CHAPTER XXII

GETTING A CLUE

Roy was so astonished at the sight of his friend, the jewelry salesman,
peering out of the window that he nearly let go his hold of the rope.
He recovered himself quickly, however, and slid on toward the ground.
As he looked up at the casement he could see that De Royster and Wakely
were having some kind of a struggle.

"I must go back and help him," thought Roy.  "Mr. De Royster is no
match for that fellow.  I'd like to tackle him on my own account,
though he was not cruel to me while he had me a prisoner."

His determination to do this was increased when his friend leaned out
of the window, and called:

"Come on up, Roy!  Help me!"

"He's plucky to tackle that fellow alone," thought the boy from the
ranch.

But now he had no time for musings.  He must act.  As he let go the
rope, his feet having touched the ground, he found himself in the not
very clean yard of the tenement.

About him were boxes and barrels of rubbish, decaying vegetables were
on all sides, besides tin cans and heaps of refuse.  Clearly the
tenants in the house were not particular.

Roy looked about him.  The yard was surrounded by a high fence, and
there were no persons in sight.  To the rear was the electric light
plant, and on either side, the yards of other tenement houses.  Then
Roy saw an alley, which, he thought, would lead to the street.

Leaving his lariat dangling, he made a dash for the alley and soon
found himself in front of the tenement house, where he had so recently
been a prisoner.

Up the stairs he went on the jump, and, as he came near the room where
he had been held, he could hear the sound of a struggle.

"They're fighting!" he thought.  "I must help De Royster!"

As he entered the apartment he saw the jewelry salesman holding Wakely
by the wrists, while the man was endeavoring to get away.

"Quiet now, my dear fellow!" exclaimed Mortimer De Royster.  "I say,
old chap, you can't get away, don't you know.  I've got you, and I'm
going to have you arrested."

"You are, eh?  I'll see about that!" exclaimed Wakely.  "Let go of me!"

At the same time he gave a violent wrench.

"Hold on, my dear fellow," remonstrated De Royster.  "You mustn't do
that, don't you know."

In spite of his rather slight built De Royster was proving himself
almost a match for Wakely.  But his strength was not of the lasting
kind, while the other's was.

"Let me go!" fiercely demanded Wakely.  "If you don't it will be the
worst for you!"

At the same time he gave such a yank that he succeeded in freeing one
arm.  But De Royster was not going to give up so easily.  He grabbed
Wakely around the waist.

At that moment Roy made a rush for Wakely.  Just as he was about to
grab him, he was thrust aside by some one from behind.  Wakely turned,
gave one look at the newcomer, and cried:

"Quick!  Tell Annister he's escaped!"

Wakely had not yet observed Roy, as the boy from the ranch was back of
him.  Then the man who had taken Roy from the hotel succeeded in
breaking the hold De Royster and Roy had on him.  He dashed from the
room, just as the other man, to whom he had called the warning, also
ran out.  Both seemed much frightened.

"Hold on!" cried De Royster, as if either of the men would stop for
that.  "Hold on!  I know you."

"Come on!  We'll get 'em!" shouted Roy, turning quickly and starting
after his captor and the confederate.

But he was too late.

Wakely slammed the door of the room shut, and locked it, and Roy knew
it would be useless to try and open it.

"Break the door down!" exclaimed Mortimer De Royster.  "We can catch
them!"

"The door's too strong," replied Roy.

"Then we're caught!"

"Yes, but don't worry.  I can go down the lariat the same as I did
before."

"Perhaps you can, but I can't my dear fellow."

"Oh, I'll come up the stairs and open the door for you, if the key's
there.  Say, but how did you get here, anyhow?"

"I came after you.  I've been tracing you for hours.  What does it all
mean, Roy?  Why did they take you a prisoner?"

"I don't know.  Wait until I get my breath and I'll talk."

"That's so.  I'm a little troubled that way myself, don't you know.  If
I could have held that chap a little longer I would have had him."

"Yes, but he had help at hand."

"Right again, old chap.  The other man came in at the wrong time.  You
know who he was, don't you?"

"No.  I didn't get a good look at his face.  Who was he?"

"One of the four swindlers from out West who got my watch and diamond
pin!"

"You don't mean it;" cried Roy, much excited.  He began to understand
part of the plot now.

"That's who he was," declared the dudish salesman.  "I knew him at
once, but I couldn't warn you.  I needed all my breath to hold that
other man.  What was his name?  I've forgotten."

"He called himself Wakely.  I met him at my hotel."

The exciting incidents of the last few minutes, and the surprise
created by De Royster's announcement that one of the train swindlers
was a friend of Wakely, set Roy to thinking.

"Did you hear what the fellow, whom I was holding, said just before he
got away?" asked Mr. De Royster, after a pause.

"Yes, he said 'Quick!  Tell Annister he's escaped!'"

"I wonder what he meant?"

"I reckon I can explain.  I might as well tell you the whole story of
why I came to New York, and you will understand.  Caleb Annister is the
name of the man who is agent for some property my father and I own.  It
was this man whose actions I came to investigate.  I found him to be a
swindler, and I gave him a short time in which to pay back the money he
had wrongfully retained."

"What did he say?"

"He tried to explain, but it was a pretty poor explanation.  I caught
him 'with the goods on him', as we say out West."

"But why should this man whom I held--this Wakely--want the other to
warn Annister about some one escaping?"

"That 'some one' was me.  I believe Annister got these fellows to get
me out of the way for a time, until he could work some of his schemes.
Perhaps he thought I would be frightened, and go back West, where I
could not bother him any more.

"Are you going?"

"Not a bit.  I'm going to keep right after him.  I begin to see through
his plot.  This man Wakely came to my hotel purposely to get acquainted
with me.  Then he drugged me, and got me out to this place, where he
kept me a prisoner.  What was to be the outcome I don't know.  But I am
surprised to hear you say that the other man who came into the room was
one of the swindlers who robbed you."

"I am sure of it.  I would never forget his face.  Wakely, too, seems
familiar, but I can't place him."

"Maybe Wakely is a member of their gang, and perhaps Annister, too, is
in with them."

"I shouldn't be surprised.  What do you think we had better do?"

Neither of them yet recognized Wakely as Tupper.

"I think we'd better get out of this place before they come back with
reinforcements," said Roy with a laugh.  He was cool, despite what he
had gone through, for he was somewhat used to meeting danger and doing
his best to escape.

"I'll slide down my rope again," he went on, "come up the stairs, and
open the door.  Then we can talk it over.  I must get my baggage away
from here."

It did not take the boy long to repeat his feat with the lariat, and
soon, having found a key, he opened the door from without, releasing
Mortimer De Royster.


CHAPTER XXIII

A LAWYER'S ADVICE

"Now, what's the first thing to be done, my dear chap?" asked De
Royster, as Roy loosed the lasso from the bed and coiled it up.

"Arrange to get my stuff away from here.  I reckon, and back to my
hotel.  Then I want to hear how you traced me."

"I'll tell you.  But I agree with you that we had better leave this
place.  Let's go down to the street and engage an expressman."

They found one who agreed to take Roy's baggage back to the hotel.
After seeing it safely in the wagon, during which time a few of the
tenants in the house looked on curiously, but said nothing, the two
friends started for the hotel, where Roy had been stopping.

"As soon as I called at your hotel that night, and found you had been
taken away, sick, by a man who had only recently come to the place, I
suspected something was wrong," explained Mr. De Royster, on the way.
"The clerk told me about you going away in a cab, and gave me a fairly
good description of the driver, whom he had a glimpse of.  It was a cab
seldom seen in this part of the city.

"I knew my best plan, don't you know, would be to find that driver, and
learn where he had taken you and your baggage.  My idea was that some
sharpers had gotten you into their power to rob you.  I never suspected
there was such a deep plot."

"Neither did I," replied Roy, "and I don't believe we have seen the
last of it."

"Well," went on De Royster, "I had quite a time tracing that cabman.  I
must have interviewed nearly fifty drivers before I found one who knew
a fellow that answered the description of the one who had taken you
away.  But at last I located him, and, though he was reluctant at
first, to tell me what I wanted to know, he did, after I threatened to
call in the police."

"Would you have done so?"

"Certainly.  I felt that you were in danger, for you know little of New
York."

"That's so, and I'm afraid it will take me a long time to learn.  I'm
pretty green."

"Well, you may be in some things, but you can go ahead of New Yorkers
in lots of ways.  That was a great trick, sliding down that lasso."

"It was lucky I had it with me."

"Indeed it was, and it was a good thing those scoundrels took your
baggage as well as you, or you might have been there yet."

"No, for you would have helped me, I reckon.  You arrived just a few
minutes after I had started to escape.  How did you manage it?"

"Well, as I said, my dear chap," replied De Royster, adjusting his one
eye glass, which had fallen out during the struggle with Wakely, "I
made the cabman tell me where he took you, and, after that it was an
easy matter to locate you.  I got to the tenement right behind Wakely
and I followed him up the stairs, though, then, I didn't know who he
was, and I rushed into the room as soon as he opened the door, for he
forgot to close it when he looked at the bed and saw it empty.  I
suspected you had been in here, when I saw what a lonesome sort of
place it was.  I pulled him back, just as he had his knife out, ready
to cut the lasso."

"I hardly believe he would have dared to cut it," said Roy.  "He only
wanted to scare me into coming back."

"Perhaps he did.  But I was not going to take any chances; I just
grabbed him."

"That was fine on your part."

"Oh, that's nothing.  Look what you did for me.  I only paid you back a
little."

"Nonsense.  As if I wanted pay."

"Of course you didn't, but I was glad of the chance.  I only wish I
could have held Wakely.  Now, I suppose he'll go and tell Annister, and
they'll keep right after you."

"Do you think so?"

"I believe so, from what you tell me of the men."

"Then what would you advise me to do?"

"Let me think it over a bit.  Suppose we go to your room?"

"All right."

There was considerable surprise on the part of the clerk at the hotel
when Roy came back.  On the way he and Mortimer De Royster had agreed
it would be better not to say anything about the reason for the taking
away of the boy from the ranch--a veritable kidnapping in fact.  So it
was explained that Roy had recovered from his temporary illness, and
had simply been away on business, which was true enough in its
way,--though it was not very pleasant business.

"Now," said De Royster, when he and Roy were once more back in the
former's room.  "This is what I would do.  I would consult a good
lawyer, and let him advise me.  I think this is too much for you to
handle alone."

"I believe you are right.  Do you know a good lawyer?"

"I can introduce you to the one who does business for our firm.  He is
very reliable, and his charges are reasonable."

"Then we will go see him, after I have changed my clothes.  Sleeping in
them hasn't made them look exactly as new as they were."

"That's a good idea.  Have you heard from your father since writing to
him about Annister?"

"I don't know.  Perhaps a letter came while I was away.  I wonder where
they would send it?"

"They would keep it here until you gave them some instructions for
forwarding it.  I'll inquire at the desk for you while you are changing
your clothes."

As Roy had purchased two suits on coming to New York, he had a new one
to put on, while the other was sent to be pressed.  He had not finished
dressing when De Royster came back.

"No letters, but there's a telegram," he said, handing Roy the yellow
envelope.

The boy tore it open and read:

"Letter received.  No doubt Annister is swindler.  You are doing right.
Keep after him.  Don't spare expense.  Take property from his control,
and give to some good man.  I leave it to you.  Answer when you get
this."

"Why this came yesterday," said Roy.  "Dad will be wondering why he
doesn't hear from me."

"Then you had better answer at once.  There is a branch telegraph
office in the hotel lobby.  Write an answer and I'll take it down while
you finish dressing."

A reply was soon prepared and sent.  Meanwhile Roy got ready for the
street and, accompanied by De Royster, he went to the lawyer's office.

The legal gentleman greeted Mortimer De Royster cordially.  Roy was
quite surprised to find out how many friends the jewelry salesman had.
Everyone seemed to like him in spite of his odd ways.

Roy's story was soon told.  The lawyer took off his gold spectacles,
wiped them carefully with a silk handkerchief, replaced them, looked at
Roy over the tops of them, and remarked:

"Hum!"

It was not very encouraging, nor did it tell very much.  Roy began to
fear he had not made himself clear.

"I would like--" he began.

"What you want is my advice as to how next to proceed; isn't it?" asked
the lawyer, as though he had come to some decision, as indeed he had.

"Yes, sir."

"Well, I shall have to look into this matter of the property.
Evidently Mr. Annister has some reason for wanting you out of the way.
What it is we shall have to discover.  Meanwhile you had better do
nothing."

"But suppose they kidnap him again?" asked De Royster.

"I don't believe they'll dare do that.  Perhaps you had better take
care where you go, however.  In the meanwhile I will make some
inquiries about this property.  I will communicate with you as soon as
I have anything to report."

"Do you think you can make Mr. Annister give back the money he has
wrongfully kept?" asked Roy.

"I'm afraid I can't give you an opinion until I have looked further
into the case," said the lawyer with a smile.  "It may be necessary to
take civil action, and we might have to make a criminal complaint.  Now
don't worry about it.  I'll look after it.  Just you keep out of the
way of those men."

"I will," agreed Roy with a laugh.  "I'm not afraid of them, however.
I'll be ready for them next time."

"Another thing," went on the lawyer, "don't drink ice cream sodas, or
anything else, with strangers."

"I'll stick to Mr. De Royster," said the boy.  "I reckon if I trail
along with him they'll not be able to rope me."

"Rope you?  Oh, yes, I understand," replied the lawyer with a smile.
"Yes, that's right.  Good morning."


CHAPTER XXIV

ANOTHER RASCALLY ATTEMPT

"What next?" asked Roy of Mortimer De Royster, as they emerged from the
lawyer's office.

"Well, as it's getting near dinner time, suppose we go back to the
hotel."

"That's a good idea.  Will you stay and have grub with me--I mean
lunch.  I must get used to calling it that while I'm in New York."

"Yes, thank you.  I've got a good appetite since that tussel with
Wakely."

"You had nerve to tackle him."

"I thought he was going to cut the rope and let you drop."

"If he had, that would have been the end of me.  I'd have 'passed in my
chips,' as the card players say."

"Those card players!  I'd like to meet them.  I'd get even with them
for stealing my watch and diamond!"

"Maybe you'll have a chance, when we round up Annister."

"If we ever do.  But I imagine he's too slick a criminal to be caught."

"We'll see," said Roy.

"What would you like to do this afternoon?" asked De Royster, when the
meal was finished.  "I can show you some sights if you'd like to see
them."

"I sure would.  I haven't had much time so far.  There wasn't a great
deal to see in that tenement."

"Then we'll go up to Bronx Park.  We can make a quick trip in the
subway."

"That's the place I thought was a tunnel, and I was wondering when we
would come to the end," and Roy laughed at the memory of his natural
mistake.

The two friends had a good time in the Park, looking at the animals.
The herd of buffalo interested Roy very much, as did the elephants,
tigers, and other beasts from tropical countries, for he had never seen
any before, since no circuses ever came to Painted Stone, nor anywhere
in that vicinity.

"You haven't got any of these out West; have you?" asked Mortimer De
Royster, with a New Yorker's usual pride in the big Zoo.

"No, and we don't want 'em."

"Why not?"

"They'd stampede the cattle in seven counties.  What would a drove of
steers or a band of horses do if they saw one of them elephants coming
at 'em, so's they couldn't tell which end was the tail?  Or one of them
long-necked giraffes?  Why, those giraffes would starve out our way.
There's no trees tall enough for 'em to eat their breakfast from."

They went into the reptile house, and the snakes fascinated Roy.  He
paused before a glass box of rattlers.

"There's something we've got out West," he said, "and we'd give a good
deal not to have 'em.  We lose lots of cattle from snake-bites--those
ugly rattlers!  I don't like to look at 'em!  I nearly stepped on one
once, and he stuck his fangs in my boot."

"What did you do?"

"Stepped on it and killed it.  Come on; let's look at something more
pleasant."

They spent the rest of the day in the Park, and returned to the hotel
that evening.

For about a week nothing occurred.  Mortimer De Royster took Roy for
occasional pleasure trips, including one jaunt to Coney Island, where
the boy from the ranch had his first glimpse of the ocean.  The big
waves, and the immense expanse of water, astonished him more than
anything he had seen in New York.

"I never knew there was so much water in the world," he said.  "This
would be fine out our way in time of drouth, when all the pastures dry
up."

"I'm afraid it would be worse than none at all," said Mr. De Royster.
"It's salt, and it would kill the grass."

"That's so.  I didn't think about that."

They went in bathing, and took in many amusements at the pleasure
resort.  It was quite late when they got back to the hotel, and De
Royster did not go all the way with Roy, turning off to go to his own
boarding house, which was about a mile from where Roy was stopping.

"I'll see you to-morrow," called the jewelry salesman, as the two
parted.  "I guess the lawyer will have some word for us then."

"There's a note for you," said the hotel clerk to Roy as the boy
entered, and he handed over a sealed envelope.  In the upper left hand
corner was the printed name and address of the lawyer to whom De
Royster had taken him.

"Mr. Felix Ketchum must have some news for me," thought Roy, as he
opened the note.  It was a written request for him to call at a certain
address that night, where he would receive some information that would
be of service to him, and the communication was signed with Mr.
Ketchum's name.  A postscript stated that the lawyer would be there.

"That's queer," thought the boy.  "I wonder why he didn't have me call
at his office?  But perhaps he has to work secretly against Annister.
I guess that's it."

"When did this note come?" he asked the clerk.

"Right after dinner."

"Dinner?"

"I mean the evening dinner--I suppose you call it supper out West," and
the clerk smiled.

"That's what we do.  Who brought this?"

"A boy.  He said there was no answer.  Hope it isn't bad news."

"No; only a business matter.  Can you tell me where the Bowery is?"

"The Bowery.  You're not going there; are you?"

"Yes, I have an appointment to meet a man there," and Roy mentioned the
number.

"You want to be careful," cautioned the clerk.  "It's not the best
place in the world after dark.  Don't take much money with you, for you
might be robbed."

"Aren't there policemen there?"

"Yes, but they can't be all over.  That address is not far from the
Chinese district, and it's a hanging-out place for thieves and
criminals."

"Funny that Mr. Ketchum should want me to go there," thought Roy, "but
perhaps he has to get evidence against Mr. Annister from a man who
doesn't care to be seen during the day.  I guess I'll chance it.  There
can't be much danger in the midst of a big city, with policemen around.
Besides I'll be on my guard.  I wish I could tell Mr. De Royster.  But,
no, I'll not bother him.  He'll think I'm a regular baby, not able to
take care of myself."

This thought decided Roy to go alone.  He suspected nothing, but, had
he known more about New York, he would have considered twice before
venturing into one of the worst parts of that great city.

The clerk once more cautioned the boy, gave him directions how to get
to the address on the Bowery, and in due time Roy arrived there.  Part
of the street was brilliantly lighted, but the building where he was
directed to call, was in a dark location, and did not look very
inviting.

"I wonder if this is it?" thought Roy.  "Guess I'll ask."

He saw a door opening into a dim hallway.  A man was standing there.

"Is Mr. Ketchum in this building?" asked Roy, for the note had
instructed him to ask for the lawyer.

"Yes, come on in," said the man gruffly.

Roy advanced.  The door shut after him with a click, and he was left in
almost total darkness.  At the same time he felt some one grab him.

"Have you got him?" cried a voice.  "Don't hurt him, but hold him
tight."

Roy recognized the voice as that of Caleb Annister!

As he felt arms closing around him he kicked out vigorously.  There was
a howl of pain, but Roy was not released.  He knew that once more he
was in the hands of Annister's accomplices.


CHAPTER XXV

THE ROUND-UP--CONCLUSION

Across Roy's mind it flashed in an instant that he had been deceived by
the note--it was a forgery.  He had been tricked into coming to the
Bowery.  He dwelt but momentarily on this, however, for he needed to
devote all his attention to escaping from the grip of the man who held
him.

Fortunately Roy was of exceptional strength for so young a lad.  His
training on the ranch, roping steers, training wild horses, and his
life in the open, made him more than a match for the average man.

He kicked out vigorously, right and left, and squirmed like an eel.  He
felt the grip of the man relaxing, and heard him call for aid.  Then
another came.

But Roy was fighting desperately.  He made up his mind not only not to
let the men take him away again, but to hold them until help came.
With this in view he set up a loud shout.

"Police!  Police!  Police!" he cried, remembering what the hotel clerk
had said about the bluecoats being on the Bowery.

"Stop his mouth or we'll all be arrested!" exclaimed some one.

"Yes.  Can't you manage him?" asked Annister desperately.

"He's as strong as a horse!" Roy heard one man grunt, and this caused
the boy to smile grimly.

The struggle in the dark continued.  The boy had a good grip on two
men, and was preventing them from dragging him down the dark hallway.

But help was at hand.  His cries had been heard in the street, and, a
moment later the door leading to the thoroughfare opened, and a little
light came in.

At the same time Roy heard the sound of a club striking on the pavement.

"The cops are coming!" cried a voice.

A few seconds later a burly bluecoat entered the door.

"What's going on?" he asked.

"Nothing but a drunken row," quickly replied one of the men who had
attacked Roy, at the same time trying to loosen the grip of the lad.
"I'm putting the fellow out."

The plotter would have been glad to drop the matter now and escape, but
Roy had no intention of letting him go.

"Officer!" exclaimed Roy quickly, "they're trying to get me away!  I've
got hold of two of 'em.  Give us a hand and we'll throw and tie 'em
both."

He talked as though he was on the ranch, handling a pair of refractory
calves.

Somehow the officer recognized the honesty in Roy's voice.  He knew it
was not uncommon for thieves and pickpockets to attack persons in dark
hallways.  He supposed it was one of those cases.

"I'll help you!" he exclaimed, quickly advancing.  Some one in the rear
of the hall had opened a door, and the place was lighter.  The
policeman saw two men whom Roy had gripped, holding them by twisting
his hands in their coats.  The men tried to escape.

"No, you don't!" exclaimed the officer, grabbing one.  "I've got you."

At the same time a second policeman appeared, and took charge of the
other.  The rest of the men escaped.

"Now let's see who we've got," said the first bluecoat, as he led his
prisoner to the light in the rear.  His brother officer did likewise.

"I don't know either of 'em," announced the first policeman.

"Me either," admitted his colleague.  "They must belong to a new
pickpocket gang."

But Roy knew them both.  One was Caleb Annister, and the other John
Wakely, alias Dennison Tupper, though Roy did not learn that until
later.

"Do you want to make a charge against these two?" asked the first
officer.  "A charge of attempted pocket picking?"

"It's worse than that," replied Roy.  "They tried to kidnap me."

"Kidnap you?  Then you'd better come to the station, and tell the
sergeant all about it.  I'll ring for the wagon."

In a little while the patrol vehicle dashed up with a clanging of the
gong, and, through the great crowd that almost instantly gathered, Roy
followed the two officers and their prisoners into the wagon.  They
were soon at the station house.

"How do I know but what you're all of one gang?" asked the sergeant,
when Roy had told his story, while the other two remained obstinately
silent.

"If you will telephone for Mr. Ketchum he will identify me."

The name produced an instant effect, for Mr. Ketchum was a lawyer well
known in police circles, as he prosecuted many criminals.

The sergeant telephoned, and, in a short time, came the answer from Mr.
Ketchum's home that he would come to the station and identify Roy.

He did so, and the sergeant admitted his mistake.

"I'll just lock these two up," he said, indicating Mr. Annister and
Wakely.

"You're not going to lock me up, are you?" asked Caleb Annister, who
seemed to lose all courage as he saw the way matters were going.
"You're not going to prosecute me, are you, Roy Bradner?  I'll make
restitution!  I'll pay it all back!"

"Then you confess you swindled this boy, and his father?" asked Mr.
Ketchum quickly.

"I--er--I won't say anything," replied the other sullenly, as he saw
the mistake he had made.

"You don't have to.  I have evidence enough to convict you without any
admissions on your part.  I discovered your scheme in time.  A few days
more and it would have been too late to pay the taxes, and save the
property for Mr. Bradner and his son."

"Was he going to take the property?" asked Roy, amazed at the duplicity
of the agent his father had trusted.

"He was.  That is why he tried to have you put out of the way.  He was
afraid you would interfere with his plan before the two weeks expired.
Fortunately I discovered it in time.  To-morrow I will pay the taxes in
your father's name, and the building will remain the property of him
and yourself."

"What's the charge against these two, then?" asked the sergeant.

"Attempted kidnapping and embezzlement against him," replied Mr.
Ketchum, indicating Annister, "and against Wakely, a charge of actual
kidnapping.  I think we shall be able to arrest the others in the gang,
also."

"Hold on!" exclaimed a voice, and Roy turned around to behold Mortimer
De Royster.  "There's another charge to be made."

"Who against?" asked the sergeant, impressed by the apparently wealthy
air of the jewelry salesman.

"Against him," pointing to Wakely.

"What is the charge?"

"Robbery.  He and three others stole my gold watch and diamond pin."

Wakely uttered an exclamation.

"I now recognize him as one of the robbers, even though he has shaved
his moustache off," went on De Royster, and Roy, now, also knew where
it was he had heard Wakely's voice before.

"Lock 'em up!" called the sergeant to the doorman, as he made an entry
on the blotter, against the prisoners' names.  "You can see the Judge
in the morning," he went on.  "I suppose you will be here, Mr. Ketchum?"

"Oh, yes.  I will prosecute this case to a finish.  It was a wicked and
bold attempt at swindling."

"Well, you seem to turn up every time I need you," remarked Roy to
Mortimer De Royster.  "How did you know I was here?"

"I called at your hotel shortly after you left.  I had forgotten to
tell you, when we parted, that I would call for you early to-morrow
morning.  The clerk said you had gone to the Bowery, after receiving a
note.

"I was suspicious, and I followed.  I got there just as the patrol
wagon left, and I came on to the station house.  Well, I guess you
'rounded them up' as you call it, Roy."

"Yes, they're roped and in the corral now, all right.  That is, part of
them are."

"The police will get the others.  They'll make Annister and Wakely tell
who their confederates are."

Mortimer De Royster's surmise proved correct.  Later that night Hynard,
Baker and Sutton were arrested, just as they were about to leave the
city.  On Sutton were found pawn tickets representing De Royster's
watch and diamond, and he got them back in due time.  There were also
some envelopes and letter heads secured in some criminal way from Mr.
Ketchum's office.  On one of them the note to Roy had been written.

After a hearing the swindlers and Annister, the rascally real estate
agent, were sent to jail, in default of bail, there to await trial on
several charges.

Eventually they were sent to prison for long terms.

"Well, you saved your father's building for him," remarked Mr. Ketchum
to Roy, a few days later.

"Do you really think Annister could have gotten it into his possession?"

"He could, under the law.  Of course we might have contested it, but it
would have been a long and expensive proceeding.  He would have had a
tax deed to it, and that is considered pretty good.  Your father can be
proud of you.  What are you going to do now?"

"Go back to the ranch, I guess.  I've done all dad told me to, except
get a good man to look after the property.  Perhaps you can suggest
some one?"

"I think I can arrange that without difficulty."

"Then I wish you would.  I know my father would be glad to have you."

This was done a few days later, and Mr. Bradner was informed, by
telegraph, of what had transpired.  He could now be sure of getting all
the rent money from the Bleeker Building.  Little was ever recovered of
the money that Mr. Annister had unlawfully retained, for his property
was so tied up that the law could not touch it.

