Produced by Martin Pettit and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


HOMEBURG MEMORIES

[Illustration: Finally the bass catches up with the cornets.

FRONTISPIECE. _See Page 176_]


Homeburg Memories

BY

GEORGE FITCH
AUTHOR OF "AT GOOD OLD SIWASH,"
"SIZING UP UNCLE SAM," ETC.


WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY
IRMA DÉRÈMEAUX

[Illustration: Publisher's logo]

BOSTON
LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY
1915


_Copyright, 1915_,
BY LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY.

_All rights reserved_

Published, February, 1915

THE COLONIAL PRESS
C. H. SIMONDS CO., BOSTON, U. S. A.


TO

_MY FATHER_


CONTENTS

CHAPTER                                   PAGE

   I. THE 4:11 TRAIN                         1

  II. THE FRIENDLY FIRE-FIEND               26

 III. HOMEBURG'S TWO FOUR-HUNDREDTHS        47

  IV. THE SERVANT QUESTION IN HOMEBURG      71

   V. HOMEBURG'S LEISURE CLASS              91

  VI. HOMEBURG'S WORST ENEMY               116

 VII. THE HOMEBURG WEEKLY DEMOCRAT         142

VIII. THE HOMEBURG MARINE BAND             171

  IX. THE AUTO GAME IN HOMEBURG            200

   X. THE HOMEBURG TELEPHONE EXCHANGE      230

  XI. A HOMEBURG SCHOOL ELECTION           254

 XII. CHRISTMAS AT HOMEBURG                278


ILLUSTRATIONS

FINALLY THE BASS CATCHES UP WITH THE
CORNETS                                _Frontispiece_

IT SEEMED TO ME THEN AS IF SHE MUST
HAVE COME FROM HEAVEN BY AIR-LINE          PAGE   18

"SHE'S OUT, BOYS," HE SAYS                   "   148

IN HOMEBURG YOU COME HOME TO THE
WHOLE TOWN                                   "   284


Homeburg Memories


I

THE 4:11 TRAIN

_In Which the World Comes Once a Day to Visit Homeburg_


Hel-lo, Jim! Darn your case-hardened old hide, but I'm glad to see you!
Wait till I unclamp my fingers from this suit case handle and I'll shake
hands. Whoa--look out!! That's the fourth time that chap's tried to tag
me with his automobile baggage truck. He'll get me yet. I wish I were a
trunk, Jim. Why aren't they as kind to the poor traveler as they are to
his trunk? I don't see any electric truck here to haul me the rest of
the way into New York. It's a long, long walk to the front door of this
station, and my feet hurt.

That's the idea. Let the porter lug that suit case. I'd have hired one
myself, but I was afraid I couldn't support him in the style you fellows
have made him accustomed to. It was mighty nice of you to come down and
meet me, Jim. I've been standing here for five minutes in this infernal
mass meeting of locomotives, trying to keep out from underfoot, and
getting myself all calm and collected before I surged out of this
howling forty-acre depot and looked New York in the eye. It's nothing
but a plain case of rattles. I have 'em whenever I land here, Jim. Dump
me out on Broadway and I wouldn't care, but whenever I land back in the
bowels of a Union Station I'm a meek little country cousin, and I always
want some one to come along and take me by the hand.

It's the fault of your depots. They're the biggest things you have, and
it isn't fair for you to come at me with your biggest things first.
Every time I start for New York I swear to myself that I'm going to go
into a fifty thousand dollar dining-room full of waiters far above my
station, and tuck my napkin in my collar, just to show I'm a free-born
citizen; and I'm going to trust my life to crossing policemen, and go by
forty-story buildings without even flipping an eye up the corner and
counting the stories by threes. I'm mighty sophisticated until I hit the
city and get out into a depot which has a town square under roof and a
waiting-room so high that they have to shut the front door to keep the
thunder storms out. Then I begin to shrink. And by the time I've walked
from Yonkers or thereabouts, clean through the station and out of a
two-block hallway, with more stores on either side than there are in all
Homeburg, and have committed my soul to the nearest taxicab pirate, I
feel like a cheese mite in the great hall of Karnak.

No, sir; when I get into a big city depot, I'm a country Jake, and I
need a compass and kind words. I've suffered a lot from those depots. I
missed a train in Washington once because I figured it would take me
only ten minutes to go from my hotel to the train. But I counted only
the distance to the front door of the Union Station. By the time I'd
journeyed on through the fool thing, my train had gone. Once I missed a
train in the Boston station because I didn't know which one of the
thirty tracks my train was on. I guessed it was somewhere to the right,
and I guessed wrong. It was twenty-four tracks away to the left, and I
couldn't get back in time. So I went into their waiting-room, which is
as big as a New England cornfield and has all the benches named for
various towns. I had to stand up two hours because I couldn't find the
Homeburg bench.

I'm an admirer of big cities, Jim, and I wouldn't have you take a foot
off your Woolworth building, or a single crashity!! bang!! out of your
subways, but I wish there was a little more coziness in your depots.
Why, at Homeburg I'm nearer the train at my house than I am in New York
after I've got to the station. It's great to have a depot so big that it
takes the place of mountain scenery, but it's hard on the poor traveler,
even if it does have all the comforts of away-from-home in it. And then
it swallows up things so. It takes away all the pleasure of having a
railroad in the town. I suppose five hundred trains come into this
station every day, but they're just trains--nothing more. You don't get
any fun or information or excitement out of them. You can't even chase
them--they bang a gate in your face when you try. I'll bet you don't get
as much comfort and fun out of all these five hundred trains, Jim, as we
do out of the 4:11 train at Homeburg.

No; it's not any better than your trains. It's not as good. You can't
get raw oysters and magazines and individual cocktails and shaves on it.
All you can get is cinders and peanuts, and I would advise you, if you
were hungry, to eat the former and put the latter in your eye. It's the
kind of a train you New Yorkers would ride on and then write home
telling about the horrors of travel in the great West. But it means
everything to Homeburg. It means a lot more than the half dozen limited
trains which roar through our town fifty miles an hour every day and
have made us so expert at dodging that we will develop kangaroo legs in
another generation. It's our train. Here in New York a hundred trains
come in each morning from Chicago, New Orleans, Everywhere and points
beyond, and the office-boy next door to the depot doesn't stop licking
stamps long enough to look up. But when old Number Eleven, which is its
official railroad name, pulls into Homeburg from Chicago each
afternoon, loaded with mail, news, passengers, home-comers, adventurers,
mysterious strangers, friends, brides, heroes, widows and coffins, you
can just bet we're there to see her.

It's the town pastime. We all do it. Whenever a Homeburg man has nothing
else to do at four o'clock, he steps over to the depot and joins the
long line which leans up against the depot wall and keeps it in place
during the crisis. Some of them haven't missed a roll-call in years. Old
Bill Dorgan, the drayman, has stood on the platform every day since the
line was built, rain or shine. Josh James, the colored porter of the
Cosmopolitan Hotel, knows more traveling men than William J. Bryan. If
he was absent from his post, the engineer wouldn't know where to stop
the train. The old men come crawling down on nice days and sun
themselves for an hour before the train arrives. The boys sneak slyly
down on their way from school and stand in flocks worshiping the train
butcher, who is bigger than the Washington Monument to them. Sometimes a
few girls come down too, and hang around, giggling. But that doesn't
last long. We won't stand for it in our town. It's do, poor old crook,
now, or die!
But--I _must_ keep 'un oop to the collar!

* * * * *
"This room is very close!" said Mrs.

R., settling herself down to her knitting, which her nephew had furtively
unravelled. "Open the window, TOM, and let out the asphyxia."
* * * * *
LINES ON THE AUTHOR OF THE LABOUR BUREAU.

(_By a Labourer._)
'Ooray for Mister MUNDELLA, (Who's under Old GLADDY'S umbrella.) For he's
a jolly good fella, And so say all of _hus_!
With a 'ip, 'ip, 'ip, 'ooray!
We hope the Bureau may pay.
Of course it might well have been better, But then--it might have been
_wus_!

* * * * *

EMPHASIS GRATIÂ.--What a difference a slight emphasis makes in an ordinary
sentence! The _D. T._ when giving, in advance, an account of a
marriage to be solemnised the same afternoon, spoke thus concerning
the costumes of the very youthful bridesmaids. "They will wear dresses
of very pale blue silk, made up with ivory-hued lace." Now, had the
second word been in italics, it would have read thus, "They _will_ wear,"
&c., as if everything had been done to prevent them from so arraying
themselves, "but, in spite of all efforts, they _will_ wear dresses of
very pale blue!" So obstinate of them!
Such nice little ladies, too!

* * * * *
"The Liberal-Unionists have resolved to abstain from pairing during the
present Session." So _The Times_. "Birds in their little nests agree,"
quoth the eminent Dr. WATTS; but these Parliamentary Birds will belie
their name of "Unionists" if they refuse to "pair."
* * * * *
TELEGRAM FROM HAWAIANS TO AMERICAN PRESIDENT.--"WE would be U.S."

* * * * *
THE ANTI----?

Your aid let me ask in a difficult task, _Mr. Punch_, with the greatest
submission; To win for my name a well-merited fame was always my ardent
ambition, And clearly to-day the least difficult way is to send an appeal
to the papers, To form an intrigue for creating a league against
fashion-designers and drapers.

Thereby shall I reap an advertisement cheap, and writers, with much
perseverance, Will furnish as news their apocryphal views on my appetite,
age, and appearance; They all will revere my conviction sincere, and
loudly re-echo my praises, But the thing which, as yet, I'm unable
to get, is a novel departure in crazes
The idea shall we float that a swallow-tail coat is only adapted for
Vandals?
Write pamphlets, designed to enlighten mankind on the duty of taking
to sandals?

Would a hatred of hats, or crusade on cravats, secure us a sympathy
louder?
Or shall we assert it is time to revert to patches, knee-breeches,
and powder?

Meanwhile, your applause we invite for our Cause--you notice the
capital letter-- Subscriptions and fees you may send when you please to
the writer, the sooner the better.
But as to the theme of this notable scheme, I wait for a timely
suggestion; Its worth's beyond doubt, but what it's about remains,
for the present, a question!

* * * * *
The Bishop of CHESTER trembles. He is marked with the brand of "CAINE"!

* * * * *
[Illustration: "A STIFF JOB."
W. E. G.

(_to himself_). "SHALL HAVE TO KEEP HIM _UP TO THE COLLAR_!" (_Aloud._)
"GEE UP!!"]
* * * * *
CONVERSATIONAL HINTS FOR YOUNG SHOOTERS.

HOSTS.

"Dear Punch," writes a valued Correspondent, "I wish you'd tip me
the wink how I'm to talk to my hosts. I'm a poor man, but not a poor shot.
So I get asked about a good deal to different places, and as I'm not the
sort that turns on the talking-tap very easily, I often get stuck up.
Just as I've got fairly into the swim with one of them I leave him,
and have to think of talk for quite a different kind of chap, and so
on all through the season.
For instance, last December I did three shoots in as many weeks. The
first was with old CALLABY, the rich manufacturer, who's turned
sportsman late in life.

I thought he'd like a talk about bimetallism, so I sweated it up a bit,
and started off with a burst as soon as I got a look in. All no go.
Nothing would please him but to talk of birds, and rabbits, and hares,
and farming, and crops, and who was going to be High Sheriff, and all
that. So I got a little left at the first go off.

[Illustration]
"Next week I shot with BLOSSOM, another new friend, who's come into money
lately, after knocking about all over America the greater part of
his life.
I tried him with the Chicago Exposition, and ranching as a business
for younger sons; did it delicately, of course, and with any amount
of deference, but he only looked at me blankly, and began talking
about the Bank-rate.

After that, I settled with myself I wouldn't talk to any more of them
about things that they might be expected to feel an interest
in.

"In the following week I was due at WHICHELLO'S. He's been a perfect
lunatic all his life for music. He got up an orchestra in his nursery,
which came to smash because his younger brother filled all the wind
instruments with soap-suds. Later on he was always scraping, or
blowing, or thumping, scooting about from one concert to another,
making expeditions to the shrine of WAGNER as he called it, composing
songs, and symphonies, and operas, and Heaven only knows what
besides.

He came into the old place in Essex when his brother died, about a year
ago, and this was his first pheasant-shoot. I thought to myself, 'If
you're anything like these other Johnnies, it's no good pulling out the
music-stop with you.' On the first morning he seemed a shade anxious at
breakfast, and said he was going to try a new plan of beating his
coverts, which it had given him a lot of trouble to arrange as he
wanted.

Off we went after breakfast. We had about half a mile to walk before
we got to the first wood, and I kept puzzling my brains the whole way
about this blessed new dodge of beating.

"'Where are the beaters?' I said to WHICHELLO, when we got there, for
devil a bit of one did I see.

"'You'll find them out directly,' says WHICHELLO, looking sly and triumphant;
'just you stand here, and wait. You'll get some shooting, I warrant
you;' and, with that, he posted the other guns at the far end of the
covert, told me and another chap we were to walk outside, in line with
the beaters, and walked off. Suddenly he gave a whistle. Then what do
you think happened? I'll give you a hundred guesses, and you won't
be on it.

Out of a little planting, about fifty yards off the piece we were to
shoot, came marching a troop of rustics, dressed as rustic beaters
usually are, but each of them carrying, in place of the ordinary
beater's stick, a musical instrument of some sort. They were headed by
the keeper, who waved a kind of _bâton_. When they got to our covert,
they arranged themselves in line, and then, on a signal from WHICHELLO,
crash, bang! they struck up the _Tannhäuser March_, and disappeared into
the wood.

"'Line up, Trombone!'

shouted the keeper--I heard his stentorian roar above the din--'Come,
hurry along with the Bombardon; Ophicleide, you're too far in front.
Keep it going, Clarinets. Now then, all together! What are you up to,
Cymbals? Let 'em have it!' And thus they came banging and booming and
blowing through the covert. The bassoon tripped into a thorn-bush, the
big-drum rolled over the trunk of a tree and smashed his instrument,
the hautboy threw his at an escaping rabbit, while the flute-man
walked straight into a pool of water, and had to be pulled out by
the triangle.
But the rest of them got through somehow with that infernal idiot
of a conducting keeper, still backing and twisting and waving like
mad in the front.

That was WHICHELLO'S idea of beating his coverts. 'Combining æsthetic
pleasure with sporting pursuits,' he called it. Somehow we had managed
to bring down a brace of pheasants, which, with three rabbits, made
up our total, out of a covert which ought to have yielded ten times
as many.

"I daresay you won't believe this story, but it's true all the same. If
you don't believe it, write to WHICHELLO himself. I never saw anyone
half so pleased as that fool was. He had given up all his time to teaching
his rustics music, with a view to this performance, and had shoved in,
as one of his keepers, a sporting third violin from the Drury Lane
orchestra. They said it was glorious, and congratulated one another all
round, with as much enthusiasm as if they'd repelled a foreign invasion.
On the next beat they played the _March in Scipio_, and after that
came a _Pot-Pourri of Popular Melodies_, arranged by the keeper.

They played a selection from _The Pirates of Penzance_ while we lunched,
and took the big wood to the tunes of '_Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay_' and
'_Up-rouse ye then, my merry, merry Men!_' '_Rule Britannia_' and '_Home,
Sweet Home_,' played us back to the house. I never heard such a confounded
Babel of brass and wood in all my life. A German band in a country town
couldn't come near it. Curiously enough, we most of us got urgent
letters by next morning's post, summoning us home at once to attend to
business, or to be present at the death-beds of relatives. I thought
you'd like to hear this story, old cock. If you like, you're very welcome
to shove it in your shooting series. I've seen a lot of rum goes
in my life, but this was the rummest of the lot. And don't forget to
let me have a word or two about talking to one's host. I know what
I thought of that maniac WHICHELLO, but I shouldn't have liked to say
that to him.

"Yours to a turn, A SPORTSMAN."
For the present I must leave this striking letter to the judgment
of my readers.

Space fails me to deal with it adequately. On another occasion I may
be able to set down some ideas on the difficult subject suggested by
my polite Correspondent.

* * * * *
THE APPRECIATION OF GOLD.--"Why all this fuss?" writes a Correspondent.
"Is there a difficulty in finding persons who properly appreciate
gold? If so, I, Sir, am not of that number. I will be happy to receive
from the Bank any quantity of sovereigns; and, further, I will
undertake to show and honestly express my appreciation of this
generosity on the part of the Bank.

Ah! I should like to possess any number of those 'promises of May.'
"Yours, A MUNNIE GRUBBER."
* * * * *
ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

EXTRACTED FROM THE DIARY OF TOBY, M.P.

_House of Commons, Tuesday, Jan. 31st._--"Members desiring to take
their seats will please come to the Table."
'Twas the voice of the SPEAKER; one could hear him declaim just as Big
Ben tolled four o'clock this afternoon.

House crowded in every part, throbbing with excitement; crowds everywhere.
In Centre Hall some vainly hoping for impossible places; others content
to see the men go by whose names they read in the papers. Outside
Palace Yard multitude standing patiently for hours, happy if only they
saw the tip of Mr. G.'s hat as he drove in at the gate, or imagined
the buttons on the Squire of MALWOOD'S gaiters. Never, in recent
times, such a rush on opening days.

And Colonel SAUNDERSON, comfortably seated on Front Bench below Gangway,
in choice companionship with Dr. TANNER, actually yawning!

[Illustration: HISTORICAL SUBJECT.--S-nd-rs-n "finding the body
of"--T-nn-r.]
"All very well for you, TOBY, dear boy," he said, responsive to my polite
stare. "You come down here leisurely in afternoon, and take your seat.
I've been on war-path since before daybreak.

Knew the wild Irishmen meant to open proceedings of Session by
appropriating our seats. Have not served in Royal Irish Fusiliers for
nothing. Session opened by Royal Commission at two o'clock this afternoon.
Thought if I arrived on spot at seven in morning would be in moderately
good time. Here before seven: place in utter darkness; found friendly
policeman with bull's-eye light; tightened my belt; cocked my pistol;
requisitioned Bobby and his lantern. You should have seen us groping
our way into House; Bobby first, with bull's-eye lantern professionally
flashing to right and left, under seats, into dark corners. Made straight
for my old corner-seat below Gangway; something white gleaming on
front bench; with supple turn of wrist Bobby brought flambeau to bear
upon it; found it was TANNER--TANNER, hatless, coatless, without even
a waistcoat on! You might have knocked me down with much less than
bayonet-prod. 'Morning, Colonel,' says he.

'Been here all night?' I gasped. 'Oh, no,' says he; 'had cup of coffee
at stall by Westminster Bridge, bought a few hats in the New Cut,
and, you see, I've planted them out.' So he had, by Gad! Every corner-seat
taken, and he prone in JEMMY LOWTHER'S. 'Weren't enough o' them,'
TANNER said, with his sixpenny snigger; 'couldn't leave put our revered
leaders, TIM HEALY and O'BRIEN, you know. So just took off my coat,
flopped it down for TIM, hung the waist-coast on a knob, and there's
WILLIAM O'BRIEN'S place secured for the night.

Now, if you'd like a seat, you'll find one above the Gangway; or
if you want to come and sit by me, here you are.

I've got a necktie, a collar, and a pair of braces to spare; if
you've any particular friends in your mind, why, we'll get seats
for them.'

No knowing what a fellow like TANNER would do in these circumstances.

Even his trowsers not sacred. So made best of bad job, and here I am.
At least, better off than JEMMY LOWTHER, evicted without compensation
for disturbance."

Conversation interrupted by loud cheer. Mr. G. marching with head
erect, and swinging stride, to take the Oath and his seat. Necessary
by Standing Orders that two Members shall accompany new Member on
these occasions to certify identity and prevent guilty impersonation.
It's a wise child that knows his own father, but HERBERT, walking
on one side of Premier, with MARJORIBANKS on other, ready to testify.
Clerk at table, thus assured all was right, administered Oath and
then conducted Premier up to SPEAKER, presenting the new Member.

"Mr. GLADSTONE, I presume," said SPEAKER, making a motion towards
extending his hand.

"Yes, Sir," said the new Member, nervously.

"Dear me!"

said the SPEAKER, now shaking hands. "I've often heard of you. I daresay
you'll soon get accustomed to the place, and will, I hope, be comfortable."
Mr. G. bowed, and retired to his seat. SPEAKER suffered succession of
shocks as in same way were brought up and introduced to him, SQUIRE OF
MALWOOD, JOHN MORLEY, CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN, the Count MUNDELLANI, GEORGE
TREVELYAN, The Boy ASQUITH, and quite a host of new acquaintances.

_Business done._--New Members took their seats. Address moved.

_Thursday Night._--Something like flash of old times to-night.

Of course, it came from Irish quarter, and it was SAUNDERSON who kindled
the torch.
Colonel presented himself early in sitting on corner bench below
Gangway.
This apparently reverted to possession of JEMMY LOWTHER. He lent it to
Colonel for an hour, sitting on other side of him. How they secured the
place is a mystery, darkened by temporary disappearance of TANNER.
"Where is TANNER?" Members ask, looking, not without suspicion, on placid
face and generally respectable appearance of JEMMY LOWTHER. Last seen,
not exactly in company of JEMMY and the Colonel, rather in conflict
for the corner-seat. LOWTHER has the seat; lends it to SAUNDERSON. But
where is TANNER?

"Oh, _he_'s all right," said LOWTHER, with forced smile, when JUSTIN
MCCARTHY, with ill-feigned indifference, inquired after the lamb missing
from his fold. "Bad sixpence, you know; always turns up," JEMMY added.
But his merriment forced, and SAUNDERSON abruptly changed subject.

Evidently a case for SHERLOCK HOLMES; must place it in his hands.

Doubtless it was with object of diverting attention from a ghastly
subject that SAUNDERSON led up to row alluded to.

In course of remarks on release of Gweedore prisoners, he alluded to Father
MCFADDEN as "a ruffian." Irish Members not used to language of that kind.
Howled in pained indignation; the Colonel, astonished at his own moderation,
varied the phrase by calling the respected P.P. "a murderous ruffian."
Shouts of horror from compatriots closely massed behind. TIM HEALY,
in particular, boiling with indignation at use of language of this
character addressed to gentlemen from whom one had difference of opinion
on public matters. Nothing would content them short of absolute and
immediate withdrawal. Colonel declined to withdraw.
Uproar rose in ungovernable fury.

Every time Colonel opened his mouth to continue his remarks, an Irish
Member (so to speak) jumped down his throat.

Considerable proportion of Ministerial majority had disappeared in this
fashion, when happy thought occurred to JOHN DILLON. Hotly moved that
SAUNDERSON "be no longer heard." Considering he had
not been heard for fully five minutes, this joke excellent. SPEAKER,
however, wouldn't see it.
COLONEL trumped the card by moving Adjournment of Debate. Mr. G.
interposed, adjured SAUNDERSON to put end to scene by withdrawing expression
objected to.

Colonel, hitherto obdurate, found irresistible the stately appeal from
Premier.

"Certainly," said he, ever ready to oblige; "I will withdraw the words
'murderous ruffian,' and substitute the expression, excited
politician." This accepted as perfectly satisfactory. Terms apparently
synonymous; but the latter, on the whole, less irritating to susceptible
nerves. Irish members round about fell on Colonel's neck; embraced
him with tears; gently disengaging himself, he proceeded uninterrupted
to the end of his address.

"Capital title that," said GEORGE NEWNES, who always has eye to
business.
"Shall start a new Weekly; lead off with serial Novel by Colonel
SAUNDERSON, entitled _The Murderous Ruffian; or, the Excited Politician_.

Sure to take."

All very well, this cleverly conceived diversion. But where is Dr.
TANNER?
_Business done._--Debate on Address.

_Friday Night._--Still harping on Ireland. Began with row round
issue of Writ for South Meath. ESMONDE, one of innumerable Whips present
House possesses, says the business was his. "Then why didn't you
do it?"

asked NOLAN. "As you didn't seem disposed to move, I do." Nationalists
want to get North Meath Election finished first; Parnellites don't. So
ESMONDE is in no hurry to move Writ, and Colonel NOLAN is. Pretty, in
these circumstances to hear NOLAN with his indignant inquiry, "Is the
moving of Writs to be taken as an Election dodge?"
After Ireland, Uganda. SAGE OF QUEEN ANNE'S GATE talked for hour and
half.
Later, rose to blandly explain that this was only half his speech; rest
will be delivered when he brings question up again on Supplementary
Vote.
As Mr. G. says, this is fair notice, and every Member may determine for
himself whether he will forego a portion of the promised treat. _Business
done._--Talking.

* * * * *
[Illustration: THE PARLIAMENTARY BILL MARKET, ST. STEPHENS.]
* * * * *
OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

Everyone knows Mr. AUSTIN DOBSON'S dainty verse. In _Eighteenth Century
Vignettes_ (CHATTO AND WINDUS) everyone has an opportunity,
which he will do well to seize, to enjoy his equally charming prose. Mr.
DOBSON is one of those enviable men who have time to read. He spends an
appreciable portion of his days and nights not only with ADDISON,
but with STEELE, PRIOR, JOHNSON, GOLDSMITH, and others, whom a
generation that read newspapers and subscribe to MUDIE'S, know only
by name.

Mr. DOBSON is so omnivorous, that he has read right through JONAS HANWAY'S
_Journal of Eight Days' Journey from Portsmouth to Kingston-upon-Thames_,
the book which drew from JOHNSON the genial remark that HANWAY "had
acquired some reputation by travelling abroad, but lost it all by
travelling at home." A man that would read that, would read anything. Mr.
DOBSON, happily, survived it, living to write a paper in which,
within the limit of a few pages, we become thoroughly acquainted
with JONAS, his travels in Persia, his discreet flirtations, his
umbrella (the first under which man ever walked in the streets of
London), his suit of rich dark brown, lined with ermine, his _chapeau
bras_ with gold button, his gold-hilted sword, and his three pairs
of stockings. JONAS always thought there was safety in numbers,
whether odd or even. When he travelled, his "Partie" consisted of
Mrs. D. and Mrs. O. When he dedicated a book (which Mr. DOBSON
found, more than a hundred years later, in a second-hand book-shop
in Holborn), he inscribed it to the "Twin Sisters, Miss ELIZABETH
& Miss CAROLINE GRIGG." When he took his walks abroad, he wore three
pairs of stockings. JONAS HANWAY, under Mr. DOBSON'S care, is
unexpectedly delightful. With the same magic touch he brings upon
the stage STEELE, FIELDING, GOLDSMITH, GRAY, HOGARTH'S SIGISMUNDA,
and Dr. JOHNSON, who lives for us again in his garret in Gough
Square. These _Vignettes_ should be framed in the private room of
every man and woman who loves books.
(_Signed_), "_Non obstat_," BARON DE B.-W.

* * * * *
Discovered in Drury Lane
_Near the new Baker Street Lodging House established by the County
Council._
I 'old it true wote'er befall; I feel it when things go most cross;
Better to do a fi'penny doss, Than never do a doss at all!
* * * * *
"WAITE FOR THE END."--On Friday last, at another Unemployed Meeting,
a certain person, whose name is never mentioned in ears polite,
"found mischief still," as wrote the immortal Dr. WATTS, "for idle
hands to do," and set one WAITE, whether a light or heavy weight
is not stated, and one SULLIVAN, by the ears. It was a hand-to-hand
fight, and WAITE was subsequently captured and brought before the
Magistrate. _Mem._ for WAITE, in the words of a recently popular
song, "_Never hit a Man of the name of Sullivan._" 
* * * * *
FALLEN FORTUNES.--Quoth _The Observer_ of a certain celebrity, "The
family to which he belongs can trace an uninterrupted descent for
a period of six centuries." What an awful "come-down"! _Quelle
dégringolade!_ 
* * * * *
BETWEEN TWO GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS.--"What do you think of
CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN'S choice of an assistant private secretary? Odd?
eh?" "Not odd! _Strange._"It's the
fiftieth race, or thereabouts, between the two, and the score is about
even. The winner gets two dollars for the use of his team. I've seen
horse-races for a thousand-dollar purse which weren't half as exciting.

In the meanwhile more messengers have arrived from the fire. It is in
the Mahlon Brown barn, and late advices indicate terrible progress. As
fast as forty-nine rival fingers can do it, the tugs are fastened, and
the cart is off down the street with a long trail of citizens after it.

Bill's team, badly blown, is hitched to the hook-and-ladder truck, and
willing hands push it out through the door. There is always more or less
of a feud between the hook-and-ladder boys and the hose-cart boys,
because the former get the second team and rarely arrive at the fire in
time to hoist the beautiful blue ladders before the hose-cart gang puts
the conflagration out. Indeed, the feeling has gotten so strong at times
that the hook-and-ladder gang has threatened to double the prize-money
by private subscription and get their rig out first, but patriotism has
thus far prevented this.

You have rung the bell until you are tired, by this time, and, besides,
the human flood has rushed on, leaving no one to whom you can explain
just how you thought you smelled fire and beat the world to the
engine-house. So you set out for the fire yourself and jog over the
half-mile in pretty fair time, considering the heat. It is an impressive
sight--not the fire itself, but the event. Two thousand, two hundred and
nine people are there--that being the population of Homeburg minus the
sick and wandering.

In the midst of the seething mass are the hose-cart and the
ladder-truck. Around them dozens of red helmets are bobbing, while the
quivering air is cut and slashed and mangled with a very hurricane of
orders: "Bring up that hose--" "Whoa, keep that horse still--" "Bring
her round this way--" "Bring her round _this_ way--" "Hey, you chumps,
the fire's _this_ side--" "Back up that wagon--" "Come ahead with the
wagon--" "Get out of here till we get a ladder up--" "Axes here--" "Turn
on that water--" "Turn on that water--" "_Turn on that water!!--_"
"Jones, go down and tell that wooden Indian to turn on that water."
"Hold that water, you--" "_Hold that water!_" "Turn her on, I say."
"Turn her--" "Wow--turn that nozzle the other way--"

And then the water comes with a mighty rush, yanking the nozzlemen this
way and that and sweeping firemen and common citizens aside as if they
were mere straws.

As a rule, this is the climax, and the end comes rapidly. By this time
Brown, who had put the fire out with a few pails of water before the
alarm sounded, has persuaded the department to call off its hose, the
barn being full of valuable hay. So there isn't anything to do. The
water is turned off. Gibb Ogle explains to the one hundred and eleventh
knot of people how he was going past the place when he saw the tongue of
flame, and every one disperses after a pleasant social time.

Everybody is tolerably well satisfied except the hook-and-ladder gang,
which, as usual, is skunked again--never got a ladder out. A couple of
the axmen had a little fun with a rear window, but otherwise the affair
is a flat failure. They go back sullenly, but are comforted when the
roll is called, when each member who was present draws a dollar from the
city treasury. As usual, Pete Sundbloom is late, and tries to edge in to
roll-call, though he was a mile away from peril, but he can't make it
stick and gets the hoarse hoot when his little game is discovered.

I want to ask you--isn't that a pleasant interruption on a dead day? It
makes life worth living, and I really wonder that there isn't more
incendiarism in small towns throughout the United States.

Of course all the alarms aren't fizzles. Sometimes we have a real fire,
and then the scene defies description. When a fair-sized house burns
down, Chief Dobbs is so hoarse that he can't talk for a week, and when
the row of wooden stores on the south side went up in flames a few years
ago, the old chief, Patrick McQuinn, burst a blood-vessel and had to
retire, the doctor having warned him that he must never use a
speaking-trumpet again.

I was away at the time, but they tell me that was a grand fire for the
hook-and-ladder boys. They were right in the middle of it, and every
ladder in the truck was out. There was some trouble over the fact that
the big extension ladder was too tall for the buildings, and when Art
Simms had climbed to the top, he managed to fall fifteen feet to the
roof of the furniture-store, bruising himself badly. But, on the whole,
great good was done, and the second story workers were kings that day.
When the hotel caught, and the hook-and-ladder gang got into it, the way
the upper windows belched mattresses, mirrors, toilet-sets, pictures and
beds was unbelievable. Almost everything in the building was saved, and
some of it was successfully repaired afterward.

The axmen had their innings that day, too. It was a great sight to see
Andy Lowes leap nimbly up the ladder and poke in window after window
with his spiked ax, stepping backward now and then into nozzleman
Jones's face in order to view the effect. The axmen got glory enough to
last for years, and it was an axman who put out the last scrap of fire.
Frank Sundell was the hero. He was sitting on the ridge-pole of
Emerson's restaurant when he noticed a few blazing spots on the shingle
roof beneath him. He might have called the hose department; but, as I
have said, there is a good deal of rivalry between the two, and,
besides, Sundell had had a slow time that day, Lowes doing most of the
display work. So Frank reached cautiously down with his trusty ax, cut
out a blazing section of shingles, and tossed it to the ground. The
crowd cheered, and he was so encouraged that he cut out the rest of the
hot spots and put out the fire single-handed. Sundell is one of our very
best firemen and stands in line for a nozzleman's position some day.

Of course a small-town fire department doesn't get as much practice in
twisting the fire-fiend's tail as a city fire company; but our boys have
a mighty good record, and we're proud of them. Since we've had
water-works, and the department hasn't had to depend on some cistern
which always went dry just at a critical moment, there hasn't been a
conflagration in Homeburg big enough to get into the city papers. The
boys may be a little overzealous now and then, but they are always on
the job ten minutes after the first tap of the bell, and the way they go
after a red tongue of flame on a kitchen roof reminds me of a terrier
shaking a rat. They are our real heroes,--the fire-laddies,--for outside
of Frank Ericson and Shorty McGrew, who work on the switching-crew, and
come sailing down through town hanging gracefully from the end of a
box-car ladder by one foot and hand, no one else has any chance to face
danger in Homeburg.

Of course our firemen don't face danger regularly, between meals, like
your big paid departments here, and about the most the ordinary business
man gets in the danger-line is the imminent peril of getting a new
twenty-five-dollar suit in line with the chemical hose; but we don't
forget in Homeburg how old Mrs. Agnew's house burned twenty years ago
this spring and the department was late, owing to the magnificent depth
of Exchange Street, the roads having broken up, and how, when it got
there, the house was a mass of flames, with the poor old lady, who had
been bedridden for years, shrieking inside, and a hundred neighbors
shrieking on the outside; and how Pat McQuinn and Henry Aultmeyer dove
in through a window, with wet coats around their heads and the
chemical-hose playing on their backs; and how they tugged and hauled at
Mrs. Agnew, who weighed two hundred and fifty pounds, and couldn't get a
grip on her, and finally upended the burning bed and dumped her out of
the window, breaking her hip, and then dumped themselves out and rolled
in the wet grass until their hair and mustaches and clothes quit
blazing--after which they retired into cotton-wool for a month.

Maybe your men would have done it more scientifically and entirely saved
poor Mrs. Agnew, who died the next month of the broken hip, but they
couldn't have stuck to the job any more heroically; and when Homeburg
citizens talk about "brave fire-laddies" and "homely heroes" at the
annual benefit supper of the Volunteer Company No. 1, they mean Pat and
Henry, and are perfectly willing to argue the question with any one.

So we worship our company to our heart's content, and when it comes
pacing slowly down the street at the head of every parade, with the
members looking handsomer than chorus girls in their dark-blue flannel
suits, red belts, and neat blue caps, we look at them full of pride and
confidence. Our little boys dream of the time when they will grow up and
join the company and wear seven-pound red helmets at fires, and come
home tired and muddy in the gray dawn after a fire and demand hot coffee
from their admiring women-folks; and as for the Homeburg girls--well,
the greatest social function of our town, or of the county for that
matter, is the annual ball of the Homeburg fire department.

And let me tell you, when the nine-piece orchestra--all home
talent--strikes up the grand march and Chief Dobbs, with his wide-gauge
mustache and vacuum-cleaned uniform, leads the company around the hall,
every hero with the girl or wife of his heart on his arm and a full
hundred couples of the mere laymen crowding in behind, in a long and
many-looped line, the Astor ball would have to do business with a brass
band and a display of fireworks to attract any more enthusiasm.

That's what the fire department means to us in Homeburg. We don't suffer
half so much from fires as we would from the lack of them; and when this
new concrete construction makes the world fire-proof, and the Homeburg
fire department rusts away and disappears, we will mourn it even more
sincerely than we did the opera house with a real gallery, which got
over-heated one night twenty-five years ago and burned, compelling us to
get along with a mere hall with a flat floor ever afterward.


III

HOMEBURG'S TWO FOUR-HUNDREDTHS

_The Struggles of our Best Families to Impress Us_


Hold on, Jim. Don't hurry so. Remember I don't have a chance to walk up
Fifth Avenue every day. Give me a chance to astonish myself. Here are
ten thousand women going by in clothes that would make a lily turn red
and burn up with shame, and an equal number of proud gents with curlycue
collars on their overcoats, and I want to do the sight justice.

You see all this parade every day, but I don't, and I want to drink it
all in. See that feminine explosion in salmon plush! That would
paralyze business back home. Watch that hat crossing the street--it
ought to be arrested for being without visible means of support--Oh, I
see! There's a girl under it with one of those rifle-barrel skirts. Gee!
Ssh, Jim! Did you see the lady who just passed? Let's beg her pardon for
intruding on this earth. Say, you could peel enough haughtiness off of
her to supply eight duchesses and still have enough for the lady cashier
at my hotel. I'll bet she is one of your Four Hundred. For goodness'
sake, Jim, if we pass any of your social lighthouses, point them out to
me. I'm here to see the sights.

I know the rest of the country throws it up to New York a lot because of
its Four Hundred, and that the ordinary small-town man gets so scornful
when he talks of the idle and diamond-crusted rich, with their
poodle-dog pastimes, that he lives in constant danger of stabbing his
eyes with his nose. But I'm not that way; I'm interested. Nothing
fascinates me so much as the stories in your papers about Mrs. Clymorr
Busst's clever pearl earrings, made to resemble door knobs; and about
Mrs. Spenser Coyne's determination to have Columbia University removed
because it interferes with the view from her garage; and about little
Mrs. Justin Wright's charming innocence in buying a whole steamship
whenever she goes over to Europe. I'd go a long way to see your Four
Hundred perform; and moreover, after I had accumulated a precarious
balance on an iron spike fence in order to rest one eye on a genuine
duke while he fought his way out of a church with one of your leading
local beauties, who had just been affixed to him for life, I would not
squint pityingly on the heaving mass of spectators and hiss:

"We don't do this in Homeburg."

Because we would do it fast enough if we had a chance.

We don't have anything like your Smart Set, of course, but I desire to
say with pride that while there aren't enough tiaras in Homeburg to fill
a pill box, and the only limousine we possess is the closed carriage
which is used for the family of the deceased at funerals, we have our
exclusive and magnificent class just as New York has. We haven't a Four
Hundred in Homeburg, but we have a Two Four-Hundredths. If you get as
much real, solid pleasure and amusement in New York watching your Four
Hundred as we do watching the Payleys and the Singers, I envy you.
They're worth all the trouble they cause.

For a good many years, Mrs. Wert Payley, wife of the First National
Bank, was our Smart Set, all by herself. There was never any question of
it. She admitted it, and we didn't take the trouble to deny it. In a
way, she was regarded as a public benefactor. Nobody else cared to
spend the money necessary to be a Smart Set, and since Mrs. Payley was
willing to fight and be bled, so to speak, to give our town tone and
inject a little excitement into our prairie lives now and then, we felt
that the least we could do was to regard her as a social colossus.

The Payleys were the only people in Homeburg who had lunch at noon, and
as early as 1900 they ate it from the bare table. She was the only woman
in Homeburg who could "look in" on an afternoon gabble of any kind for a
few minutes and get away with it without insulting the hostess. When she
shook hands with you, you always grabbed in the wrong place, no matter
how much thought you put into it, and while you were readjusting your
sights and clawing for her fingers and perspiring with mortification,
she was getting a start on you which kept you bashfully humble as long
as she was in sight. She was real goods, Mrs. Payley was--not arrogant,
but just naturally superior. People who called at the Payleys' evenings
were the social lights of Homeburg, and whenever some lady wanted to
discharge a few fireworks indicating her social position, she would form
a hollow square around Mrs. Payley in public and get intimate with her
in full view of everybody. Mrs. Payley ran the town, and everybody was
comfortable and content about it until the Singers arrived.

The Singers came from Cincinnati to cashier in the Farmers' State Bank:
Mrs. Singer was city bred and city heeled and when she met Mrs. Wert
Payley she didn't even blink. She put out her hand a little
nor'-nor'east of her chatelaine watch, when Mrs. Payley put out her hand
some four inches southwest by south, and waited calmly for Mrs. Payley
to correct herself. There was an awful moment of suspense, and when it
became evident that the only way to get Mrs. Singer's hand down to the
other level would be to excavate beneath her and change her foundations,
Mrs. Payley gave in and reached.

War was declared that minute, and I shudder now when I think of the
months which followed.

Mrs. Payley, having been on the ground a long time, had fortified it, of
course, and was president of all the clubs. But inside of a month Mrs.
Singer flanked her position. She declined to join most of the clubs on
the plea of being a busy woman, and organized a flower mission. Its
object was to distribute flowers to the sick and needy, who generally
consisted of Pat Ryan. Pat was nearly smothered in flowers that year,
being good-natured, and as the work of collecting said flowers involved
a great deal of meeting in the Singer home and dancing in the Singer
attic, which was floored with hard maple that winter, Mrs. Singer had
the girls of the town organized into a Roman phalanx before spring.

Mrs. Payley was triumphantly reëlected to the presidency of all her
clubs that winter, but Mrs. Singer organized a public library
association and pulled off a German. Mrs. Payley attended, and when she
tried to patronize Mrs. Singer with her compliments, that clever
infighter beat her to it by explaining the theory of the German to her.
That made Mrs. Payley so mad that the next month she invited the state
president of the Federation of Women's Clubs to visit her, and didn't
ask Mrs. Singer to the tea. The next week Mrs. Singer organized a
Country Club. It only consisted of a two-room pavilion in which picnics
could be held and dances could be pulled off, with long intermissions
for the extraction of slivers from the feet. But it was just as easy to
talk about while you were in town and to refer to in a hushed and
exclusive manner as if it cost a million, and when Mrs. Payley realized
that she could never hope to become exclusive enough to get into it,
though goodness knows she couldn't have been hired to belong to the
foolish thing, she quit speaking to Mrs. Singer, the split became a
chasm, and we began choosing up sides in earnest.

That winter Mrs. Singer seceded from the church which Mrs. Payley ran,
and founded an Episcopal church, taking seven choir members out of the
Congregational church, to say nothing of the organist. All this mixed up
religion in Homeburg that winter until you could scarcely tell it from a
ward caucus.

By spring it was dangerous to show favors to either side, and when the
school election came around, it was fought out between the Payley and
Singer factions. Sally Singer had been given higher marks than Sarah
Payley, and the upshot of it all was that when the Payley side prevailed
at election by nine votes, the superintendent lost his job. He was a
good superintendent and the cause of education didn't get over the jolt
for some years, but justice, of course, had to be done.

The Singers got some satisfaction out of it by electing the school board
treasurer, which took a lot of money out of the First National Bank.
That, of course, got the banks into the row. You city folks may have
your financial flurries, but if you've never been around and between and
under a bank scrap in a small town, you don't know what trouble is.
There were a couple of failures that needn't have happened, and a lot of
partisan financiering, and then the town rose up and sat down on our
social leaders with a most pronounced scrunch. We can stand just about
so much society in Homeburg, but when it gets to elbowing into business,
churches, schools and funerals, we are more sensible than you
metropolitans are. It only takes a half-day to pass the word through a
small town, and one fine morning the Payleys and Singers discovered
that while they were still facing each other like two snorty and
inextinguishable generals, their armies had gone off arm in arm.

That ended the feud and put society in Homeburg back in its proper
place--in the front parlors in the evening after the dishes had been
done up. The Payleys and Singers still continued to compete, but we
declined to fight and bleed for them and amused ourselves instead by
watching them from the sidelines. Mrs. Payley joined the "When I was in
Europe" brigade, and the Singers got the first automobile in town. It
kept the Singers so busy supporting and encouraging it, that the Payleys
were able to build the first modern house with a sleeping porch and
individual bathrooms--and about the time the Singers came back with a
two-story bungalow full of chopped wood furniture, Mrs. Payley went
abroad again and began to say: "The last time I was in Europe." It was
nip and tuck, year in and year out, between the two, and we all enjoyed
it a lot.

But it wasn't until the Payley and Singer children came home from
college and formed a tight little circle with their backs out, that we
began to reap the benefits of really haughty society.

The Payley and Singer children had absorbed all their families had to
offer, and then they went off to school in the East and laid in a
complete stock of the latest styles in superiority. They were all
finished in the same spring and shipped back to Homeburg--magnificent
specimens of college art with even their names done over--and when they
realized that they had to live forever in the old town, where no one
spoke their language or could even understand their clothes, the family
feud was forgotten and the four rushed together for mutual protection
and formed a real Smart Set.

It's just like your bigger crowd. It doesn't have anything to do with
us in particular. And we are just like you are. You open your Sunday
papers and read reams about the plumbing and pajamas and pet dogs and
love affairs of your first families, and I guess nothing that Sally
Singer or Sarah Payley ever did got past the scornful but lynx-eyed
Homeburgers. When Sarah was getting letters on expensive stationery from
Kansas City, the whole town discussed the probable character of a man
who would put blue sealing wax on his envelopes, and when Sally made her
pa put an addition on the Singer home, we knew what color she was going
to do her boudoir in three months in advance. But we are prouder than
your people. You hire down-trodden reporters to go and abase themselves
to get the information, while we wouldn't lower ourselves enough to ask
even by proxy. We just let the sewing women and hired girls tell us.

Being an exclusive set in a small town is a whole lot harder than it is
in New York, and I've always admired our youngsters for the way they've
carried it off. Of course, four people can't form a club or give parties
or support an exclusive restaurant; they can't even be exclusive all by
themselves. They have had to mingle with us, but they are always
carefully insulated. They joined our Country Club, but they did it with
their fingers crossed, so to speak. They always come out together and
protect each other from our rude advances as much as possible. They
import college friends whenever they can, and they always have a few
bush leaguers, or utility players, to work in on such occasions. Henry
Snyder used to say he could tell when there was need of the peasantry at
the Singer house by the way Sally Singer would suddenly descend from the
third cross-road beyond Mars to the street in front of the post-office
and ask him with an accurately hospitable smile if he couldn't bring
his sister up to the house that evening to meet a few guests. And once a
year all four turn in and give a real dress rehearsal of up-to-date
social science, to which Homeburg is liberally invited and at which
unknown and unsuspected things are served for refreshments and a new and
deadly variation of bridge or dancing or punch or receiving lines or
conversational technique is put on for our inspection and bewilderment.

We have a show at our opera-house now and then, and we always go to
these affairs largely to see our Smart Set perform. It always
comes--even East Lynne is better that West Homeburg--and I'll tell you,
by the time they have come rustling in about half way through the first
act, H. DeLancey Payley and W. Sam Singer in clawhammers with an acre
apiece of white shirt and holding about four bushels of pink fluff over
their arms, and the boys have consulted anxiously with the usher, the
two girls, beautiful visions of Arctic perfection, standing in well-bred
suspense and holding their gowns in the 1915 manner, and all four have
hurried down to the best seats and have unharnessed and stowed away
their upholsterings, and DeLancey has folded up his explosive hat and
Sam has leaned back in a lordly way and beckoned to the usher for
another program--by the time all this has transpired, the actors have
forgotten their lines, and we have gotten our money's worth out of the
evening's entertainment.

The hardships those people inflict on themselves in the sacred cause of
correctness are agonizing. It takes something more than nerve to wear a
silk hat and Prince Albert down to the Homeburg post-office on Sundays
to get the mail--especially with Ad Summers always on hand to spill a
large red laugh into his sleeve and say to some friend in a tremendous
stage whisper that the darn dude's legs must be bowed or he wouldn't
want to hide 'em that way. And as for the carriage proposition, I'm
certain that no martyrs have endured more. DeLancey persuaded Hi Nott to
buy a real city carriage, and the four have used it faithfully; only the
Payleys and Singers live in different edges of town, and by the time Hi
has hauled Sam and his sister across town to the Payleys, through
Homeburg's April streets, which average a little more depth than width,
and has hauled the four down to the theater, there are usually about
three breakdowns. I've seen the four of them plodding haughtily home
from "Wedded but No Wife", the girls holding their imported dresses out
of the mud, and the boys sounding for bottom on the crossings with their
canes, while Hi drove the carriage solemnly down the road beside them.
The mud was too deep for them to get home in the carriage, but everybody
could see it was there and that they had paid for it and had done their
darndest, anyway. After all, that's no worse than the way you New
Yorkers carry your gloves in your hand in warm weather. You don't need
them, but you want the world to know you've got 'em and wouldn't be
found dead without 'em.

When our Smart Set gives a party, we all try to live up to it as far as
possible, and so we insist on going by carriage. Hi starts hauling us at
six o'clock, six to a load in dry weather, and he usually gets the last
batch there just in time to begin hauling the first platoon home.

But those are just little troubles for our Smart Set. Your Smart Set has
no troubles except the job of spending its money fast enough to keep
from being smothered by the month's income. It does what it pleases, and
if anybody objects, it raises the price of something or other by way of
retort. But our Smart Set has to live in Homeburg, and what is more, it
has to live off of Homeburg, which is as hoity-toity a place to live
off of as you can find. Sally Singer can't afford to offend any one but
the depositors in the Payley Bank, and if DeLancey caused any Homeburger
to stalk down to his father's bank and extract a thousand-dollar savings
deposit, old man Payley would thrash DeLancey and set him to work on his
farm. They have to show their superiority over us so deftly and
pleasantly that we don't mind it. They have to keep us good-natured
while despising us. With half the genius for contemptuous conciliation
that the Payley and Singer children have displayed in the last five
years, the French nobility could have kept the peasantry yelling for
bread as a privilege long after 1793.

Emma Madigan weighs two hundred pounds and drives a milk route. She went
to high school with Sally Singer, and it is the joy of her life to poke
her head into the Singer home when Sally has company and yell: "Sall,
here's your milk!" But Sally never tries to refrigerate her with the
Spitzbergen glare which she uses on us collectively when she goes to the
theater. You couldn't possibly refrigerate Emma, but you might encourage
her to say more--like the time when Sarah Payley passed her on the
street without speaking, being busy treading the upper altitudes with a
young Princeton College visitor, and Em yelled back: "For goodness'
sakes, Sarey, if you didn't lace so tight you could get your chin down
and see some one!"

But most of us are not so frank. We are too good-natured. As a matter of
fact, we'd hate to see the Payleys and Singers common. They help to make
Homeburg interesting, and so long as they know their place and don't
irritate us, we wouldn't hurt their feelings for the world--that is, not
much.

There was a dancing school in Homeburg two winters ago, and to the
consternation of every one the Payley and Singer young folks joined it.
It took two meetings for us to discover what had clogged up the
atmosphere and taken the prance out of things. Then we tumbled. The
Payleys and Singers were educating us. They were fitting us to live in
the rarified upper altitudes of refinement and to mingle with rank
without stepping all over its feet. By the third meeting Henry Snyder
had caught on to most of the signals and he explained them to a lot of
us beforehand with care. When Sally Singer dropped on to a bench and
moved her skirt ever so slightly aside it was a sign that the young man
with whom she was speaking might sit down and hold sweet converse. And
when Sarah Payley smiled brightly at a gentleman from some distance and
just caressed the chair beside her with her eye for the millionth part
of a second, that young man, if he had a spark of gentility in him,
would hurdle the intervening chairs to arrive. We also discovered how
to get away just before the young ladies got bored, by other delicate
signs, and how to derive the fact that they were thirsty and needed
sustenance, and just how to imprison them in our strong but respectful
arms during a waltz, and how to collect fans and gloves and programs and
handkerchiefs from the floor without grunting or jolting the
conversation. It was hard work, and spoiled the evening to a certain
extent, but we did the best we could until Jim Reebe spoiled it all in
the fourth lesson. Miss Singer had collected her usual six men during
the intermission with as many bright glances, and was being admired
properly and according to Hoyle, when Jim up and remarks, in his
megaphone bass: "Say, Sall, you're a great work of art, but the time you
made a hit with me was the day you slid down the banisters at school."

That finished the course; and the Smart Set, being unanimously absent
the rest of the winter, we gave ourselves up to vulgar pleasure, stuffed
our white gloves back into the bureaus and yelled for encores when we
couldn't get them any other way.

I'll tell you, a man could be a hero to his valet with half the exertion
which it takes to be a Somebody to an old grammar-school mate in a small
town.

Our Smart Set is disintegrating now, and things look blue for social
progress in Homeburg. Sally Singer is getting ready to be married this
summer to a Pittsburgh man who wears a cane. The remaining three look
like the old guard at Waterloo closing in under a heavy fire. Looks to
me as if there were going to be some of these mess alliances to wind up
with, for Sam Singer is calling on Mabel Andrews in citizen's clothing,
she having jeered him out of his Prince Albert; and Henry Snyder has
stopped scoffing and infests the Payley house to an alarming extent. So
I imagine that our Smart Set will get back to shirtsleeves in two
generations less than yours usually requires, and we'll miss it a lot.
Next to the ill feeling between the _Argus_ and the _Democrat_, it has
been our greatest diversion.


IV

THE SERVANT QUESTION IN HOMEBURG

_How Mrs. Singer Amuses Us All by Insisting on Having It_


No apologies, Jim. If the Declaration of Independence who prepares your
meals for you has packed up and gone, I don't need any explanations. I
understand already. You can't ask me up to dinner because there isn't
going to be any dinner. If you don't go out to a restaurant, you'll get
a bite yourself while Mrs. Jim puts the children to bed. And then you'll
spend the evening wondering where you can beg, borrow, abduct,
hypnotize, or manufacture another cook.

I know all about it. The great sorrow has come upon you, and there's
only one comfort--there are others. It falls upon all who try to get out
of doing their own housework in New York. And I'll bet you were good
enough to the last cook, too--only asked her for one night out a week,
came to her meals promptly, didn't demand more than a fair living wage,
and let her have the rest. Yes, of course you did. And you're going to
let the next one have the best room and ring for her breakfast in the
morning, aren't you? What? Draw the line at that? Well, Jim, I admire
your nerve. You're one of the grand old rugged patriots who will not be
trodden on. Why did your last cook leave, anyway?

Didn't like the kitchen, eh? And being in a flat you couldn't tear it
out and rebuild it. Yes, I agree with you. The servant problem in New
York is getting to be very serious. To-day you are gay and happy with
luxury and comfort all about you, and to-morrow you are picking
sardines out of a can with a fork for dinner. I am certainly glad I live
in the country, where servant girls do not come on Monday with two
trunks and go away early Thursday morning with three trunks and a
bundle.

We have no servant problem in Homeburg. However, I exclude Mrs. Singer
from this "we." There are only two servants in the whole town. Mrs.
Singer has them. That is, she tries to have them. Mrs. Singer's attempt
to have servants in a town which is full of hired girls is one of the
things which make life worth living and talking about in Homeburg.

How do I know about it? Bless you, we all know about it. It's a public
tragedy. Can't help ourselves. We've had four of Mrs. Singer's
ex-servants in our house in six years, and they have all told their
troubles. Mrs. Singer trains girls for the entire town. She's twice as
good as a domestic science school, and she doesn't charge any tuition.
She is devoting her life to the training up of perfect hired girls, and
we revel in the results. It is ungrateful of us to blame her for taking
away our hired girls, because, as a matter of fact, she is our greatest
blessing. Right at this minute in Homeburg I know that two eager
families are sitting around waiting for the latest Singer class in
domestic science to graduate and come back to them for jobs. It ought to
come most any time. The course rarely lasts over three months.

You see, Mrs. Singer isn't one of us. She came to Homeburg from a large
city, and she brought her ideas with her. She's not the kind of a woman,
either, who is going to cut those ideas down to fit Homeburg. Her plan
is to change Homeburg over to fit her ideas. She's been working at it
for fifteen years now, and I must say she's won out in several cases.
Dress suits are now worn quite unblushingly, we have a country club
half a mile from the post-office--that's the advantage of a small town,
you can get away from the rush and bustle of the city into the sweet
cool country in about four jumps--and no one thinks of serving a party
dinner without salad any more. But she's fallen down on one thing. She
can't keep servants. That problem has been too much for her. Mrs.
Payley, her rival, has had the same hired girl for sixteen years or
more; but Mrs. Singer scorns a hired girl. She must have servants, two
of them, and while she has a remarkable constitution and has stood up
for years under the fight, I don't see how she can keep it up much
longer.

A hired girl in Homeburg is a very reasonable creature. We never have
any trouble with them, and they have very little with us. We usually
catch them green and wild, just off the steamer, and they come to us
equipped with a thorough working knowledge of the Swedish language, and
nothing else to speak of. Our wives take them in and teach them how to
boil water, make beds, handle a broom, use clothespins, and all the
simpler tricks of housework, to say nothing of an elementary knowledge
of English, which they usually acquire in a month; and we pay this kind
a couple of dollars a week, and they wash the clothes, take care of the
furnace, and mow the lawn with great pleasure. They usually stay a year
or so and then they go to Mrs. Singer's finishing school. They do not go
because they are discontented, but because she offers them five dollars
a week, which is a pretty fair-sized chunk of the earth to a young
Swedish girl just learning to do a few loops and spirals in English and
saving up the steamer fare to bring her sister over.

Mrs. Singer takes our nice, green, young hired girls, who are willing to
do anything up to the capacity of a stout back, and she tries to make
servants out of them. She gives them embroidered aprons and caps and
makes them keep house her way. And after they have spent a couple of
months making coffee to suit Mrs. Singer, and going over the mahogany to
suit Mrs. Singer, and arranging the magazines on the table to suit Mrs.
Singer, and taking up the breakfast to Miss Sally to suit Mrs. Singer,
and going over the back hall again to suit Mrs. Singer, and keeping
their mouths closed tightly all day to suit Mrs. Singer, and only going
out on Thursday afternoons to suit Mrs. Singer, they sort of get tired
of the job, and one after another they stop Mrs. Singer at a favorable
moment and say these fatal words:

"Aye gass aye ent stay eny longer."

Then some Homeburg family joyfully seizes on the deserter, and Mrs.
Singer starts out all over again on the job of making a servant out of a
hired girl.

I have to admire the woman for her eternal grit. She won't give up for
a minute. She is going to run her house just so if she has to train up
a million girls and lose them all. Half the time she has to do her own
work, but I'll bet that when she has the luncheon ready she puts her
little white lace napkin on her hair and comes in and announces it to
herself in the proper style; and I'll bet, too, that she doesn't talk to
herself while she is working in the kitchen, either. She says the way
Homeburg women talk to their servants is disgraceful; that it lowers a
servant's respect for her mistress. I'd give a lot to see Mrs. Singer
looking at herself coldly in the glass after breakfast and giving
herself orders for the day in a tone that would brook no familiarity
whatever.

Our women-folks, who are familiar with the Singer residence, say that it
is a beautiful thing full of monogrammed linen and embroidered towels
and curtains that have to be washed as often as a white shirt, and that
whenever they call they are pretty sure to find Mrs. Singer trying to
teach some new and slightly dizzy second girl how to take care of the
house without breaking off the edges.

You observe the fluency and ease with which I say "second girl." We all
do in Homeburg. We're used to talking about second girls since Mrs.
Singer has tried to keep one. As far as her experience has taught us, we
are firmly convinced that having a second girl is like having mumps on
the other side too. When Mrs. Singer isn't busy trying to teach her cook
how to run the oven and the plate heater and serve the soup all at the
same time, she is attempting to give a new second girl some inkling of
the general ideas of her duties. Trouble is most of them are ten-second
girls. They listen to the program in the Singer household and then they
sprint for safety to some family where they will work twice as hard, but
will give three times as much satisfaction. Then Mrs. Singer arms
herself with the dust rag and clear-starch bowl, and subs on the job
until she finds a new second girl--after which the cook gives up her job
with a loud report, and Mr. Singer stays down-town for dinner at the
Delmonico Hotel until the Singer house management is staved off the
rocks again.

We feel sorry for the Singers and invite them out a good deal while they
are hunting cooks. And they pay us back royally as soon as the household
staff is fully recruited once more. We eat strange but delicious dishes
made by a reluctant and mystified girl, plus Mrs. Singer's
persuasiveness and will power; and said girl, still reluctant, and
scared into the bargain, serves the dinner with a lace-edged apron and a
napkin on her hair, Mrs. Singer egging her in loud whispers like the
prompter in grand opera. Steering a green cook through a dinner party,
and keeping up a merry conversation at the same time, calls for about as
much social skill as anything I know of. I myself stand in awe of Mrs.
Singer.

As for the rest of us--we have no servant problem, having no servants.
And about the only hired girl problem we have is the following: "Shall
the girl eat with the family or in the kitchen?" Mrs. Singer wished that
on us. Ten years ago there was no question at all. The girl ate with the
family, and waited on the table when something was needed which couldn't
be reached. Then Mrs. Singer came to town and made her eat in the
kitchen, since which time the question has raged with more or less fury
and the whole town has chosen up sides on it. Half of us want the girl
to eat in the kitchen, and the other half are invincibly democratic and
have her at the table.

As for the girls, they are divided too. Half of the girls who come to
see about places ask us: "Do I have to eat in the kitchen?" and the
other half ask: "Do I have to eat with the family?" And of course it's
just our luck that the people who wish to dine by themselves never can
find girls who prefer the kitchen, and the people who insist on
associating with their help usually lose them because said help has been
spoiled somewhere else by being allowed to eat in the kitchen, far from
the domestic squabbles and the children with the implacable appetite for
spread bread.

But on the whole this problem doesn't bother us much, and our hired
girls are a great comfort. They usually stay with us until they are
married or retire from old age, and after they've been ten years in a
house they're pretty much one of the family. The Payleys' girl has been
with them sixteen years, as I said before, and when she wants to go to
the opera-house to an entertainment, Wert Payley makes young DeLancey
Payley take her. It's the only use he's found for DeLancey as yet. We
keep out of the kitchen after supper, unless too strongly pressed by
thirst, because usually from seven to ten some hardworking young Swedish
man sits bolt upright in a straight-backed chair, his head against the
wall, discussing romance and other subjects of interest with a scared,
resolute expression. Usually this goes on for about three years before
anything happens. Then the girl admits, with some hesitation, that she
is going to get married, and our wife or mother, as the case may be,
hustles around and helps make the trousseau and pick out the linen. The
wedding takes place in the parlor, and about a year later the young
Swedish-American citizen who arrives is named after whatever member of
our family is the most convenient as to sex.

We never entirely lose a good hired girl in Homeburg. They pass us on to
their relatives when they are married, and come back to visit with great
faithfulness. In this topsy-turvy Eldorado of ours where a man
sometimes becomes rich before he really knows what anything larger than
five dollars looks like, many of our girls draw prizes in the shape of
good farmers and prosperous young merchants. But their heads aren't
turned by it. They come around in their new automobiles and take us out
riding, just as if we had money too. The wife of our mayor used to work
for us, and when the electric light gang stuck a light where it would
shine straight into our back porch, thus reducing the value of our house
105 per cent. as a place of employment for a nice, attractive girl in
summers, I stepped over to the mayor's office and asked him if he
remembered how he used to sit on that porch himself. He smiled once,
winked twice, and three minutes afterward four men were on their way to
relocate that pole.

If I have any criticism of the hired girls in our town, it is because
they go to Europe too much. Now, of course, it's no worse for a hired
girl to go to Europe for the summer than it is for any one else to
indulge themselves in that way. But that's the irritating part. Nobody
else goes. Outside of Mrs. Wert Payley and one or two school teachers, I
don't suppose any Homeburg people have crossed the Atlantic. But half a
dozen of our hired girls go every year. They leave late in the spring,
and during the hot weary summer their mistresses toil patiently along
keeping the job open if they can't find a substitute who will work for a
few months, for the girls who go to Europe are usually pearls of great
price and must be gotten back at all cost. I don't suppose anything is
harder on the temper than to work over a hot kitchen stove all day in
July, and then to sit down to supper, a damp and wilted mess of
weariness, and read a souvenir card from your hired girl, said card
depicting a cool and inviting Swedish meadow with snow-topped mountains
in the distance.

Our girl has been to Europe three times. She has crossed on the
_Mauretania_, the old _Deutschland_ and the new _Olympic_. Two years
from this summer she thinks she will try the _Imperator_. Often in the
evening she tells us of the wonders of these great vessels--of the
beauty of the sunset at sea, and of the smoke and noise and majesty of
London. I suppose it indicates a jealous disposition, but it makes me
mad sometimes to think that it takes practically all the money I can
earn, working steadily and with two weeks off per year, to send that
girl abroad.

Of course I don't mean it just that way. She doesn't get all of it. In
fact she gets three dollars a week of it. Out of this she saves about
three dollars and twenty-five cents because sometimes she gets a dollar
extra for doing the washing. And when she goes to Europe for the summer
on the same ship with the Astors and the Vanderbilts, it sounds more
magnificent than it really is. She is on the same ship, but about
eleven decks down, in a corner of the steerage close to the stern, where
the smells are rich and undisturbed. And she doesn't visit ruins and art
galleries in Europe, but a huge circle of loving relatives, who pass her
around from farm to farm for months, while she does amateur business
agent work for the steamship lines, talking up the wonders of America
and--allow me to blush--the saintliness of her employers, and coming
blithely back home in the fall with three or four old childhood chums
for roommates.

Just the same, I envy our girls. I wish I could go to Europe in the
steerage, not being able to go any other way.

It's a fortunate thing for us that our hired girls do go back home and
proselyte for America, or else we would soon be jam up against the real
thing in help problems. If, for any reason, the Swedish nation should
cease contributing to Homeburg, we should have to do our own work. I
often wonder at the things our American girls will do rather than to go
on the fighting deck as commander of some one else's kitchen.
Twenty-five of our girls go up to Paynesville every morning at six on
the interurban and make cores in the rolling mills there all day.
Carfare and board deducted, they get less than a good hired girl--and
they don't go to Europe for the summers and never by any chance marry
some rising young farmer who has made the first payment on a quarter
section. Several of our middle-aged young ladies sew for a dollar a day
and keep house by themselves. And there's Mary Smith, who has been a
town problem. She's thirty-five and an orphan. She lives in a house
about as large as a piano box and tries to scare away the wolf by
selling flavoring extracts and taking orders for books. She's never more
than two meals ahead of an embarrassing appetite. Every fall we dig
down and buy her winter coal, and she hasn't bought any clothes for ten
years. Some one gives her an ex-dress and Mary does her best to make it
over, but she never looks much more enticing than a scarecrow in the
result.

Mary's hands are red with chilblains in the winter, and the poorhouse
yawns for her. But will she take a place as hired girl? Not she. Mary
has her pride. She'll sell you things you don't want, which is as near
begging as graft is to politics, and she'll wear second-hand clothes and
take home cold bread pudding from the hotel--but she will not be a hired
girl and go to Europe in the summer and marry into an automobile. Once
she did consent to become Mrs. Singer's second girl. Mrs. Singer was
desperate, and after a long defense Mary consented on condition that she
be called the "up-stairs maid." But she only lasted three days. Mary
could have drawn five dollars a week and Mrs. Singer's clothes, which
would have fitted her. But Mary couldn't take orders--not that kind. She
came back to take orders from us for a patent glass washtub or something
of the kind--and we sighed wearily.


V

HOMEBURG'S LEISURE CLASS

_It is not as large as New York's but it is twice as ingenious_


Confound it, Jim, I wish you hadn't told me that your friend Williston
never worked a day in his life! You don't know how it disappointed me.

Why? Because I don't know when I have met a man whom I liked so much at
first sight as I did Williston. He suited me from the ground up. I never
spent a more interesting afternoon with any one. No matter what he did,
he interested me--I enjoyed watching him handle his cigar as well as I
did hearing him tell about his Amazon adventures. Says I to myself:
"Here is a man whose friendship I will win if I have to live in New York
all my life to get it." And then you had to go and spoil it all.

Oh, yes, I know it's just my backwoods way of looking at things. I'm not
saying what I do as a boast. I'm making a confession of it. I know why
Williston doesn't work. It's because he owns a piano box full of bonds
left by his late lamented pa, and when he was educated, the word "work"
was crossed out of his spelling-book in red ink. And I'm not saying that
he isn't a fine fellow. He's intelligent and witty and companionable and
forty other desirable things. But he won't work. Somehow that sticks in
my vision of him. It reminds me of the case of Mamie Gastit, who was the
prettiest, best-dispositioned, and most capable girl in Homeburg, but
who had a glass eye. We didn't hold it up against her, but it made us
awfully sad. There were plenty of Homeburg girls who would have been
decorated by a glass eye. Why did Providence have to wish it on the
finest girl in town?

You say it is no crime not to work in New York? Bless you, I know it. In
fact, loafing in New York is the most fascinating business in the world.
Why, it seems as if you New York men actually struggle to get spare
time. I've sat in your office and watched you on Saturday morning
working yourself into a blue haze in your efforts to get done early
enough to cord up a fine big mess of leisure on Saturday afternoon.
That's the difference between New York and Homeburg. In Homeburg you
would have been stretching out your job to last until supper
time--unless you were one of our nineteen golfers, or the roads were
good enough to let you drive over to the baseball game at Paynesville.

Leisure in New York means pleasure, excitement, and seven dozen kinds of
interest. But for many and many a long year in hundreds of Homeburg
homes, leisure has meant waiting for meal times--and not much of
anything else.

City people laugh at country people for beating the chickens to roost.
But what are you going to do when going to bed is the most fascinating
diversion available after supper? I've noticed that as fast as a small
town man discovers something else to do in the evening, his light bill
goes up and up. When crokinole was introduced into Homeburg twenty odd
years ago, the kerosene wagon had to make an extra mid-week trip. When
the magazines came down from thirty-five cents to ten and you could get
three of them and a set of books for one dollar down and a dollar a
month until death did you part, they had to put an operator in the
telephone exchange after 8 P.M. because of the general sleeplessness.
When the automobile came, and when two moving picture theaters, a
Chautauqua, and a Lyceum course opened fire in one year, and the
business men fitted up a club with an ancient pool table in it, Homeburg
got chummy with all the evening hours, and kicked so hard about the
electric lights going off at midnight that the company had to run them
an hour longer. And I suppose if any invader ever puts in an all-night
restaurant where you can have lobster and a soubrette on the table at
the same time, a certain proportion of us will get as foolish as you are
and will forget how to go to bed at all by artificial light.

We've changed that much from the past generation. We know what to do
with leisure in the evening. But we're still awkward and embarrassed
when we meet it by daylight. Since we have built our Country Club, a few
of us have learned to enjoy ourselves in a fitful and guilty fashion
late in the afternoon. But as a rule, even to-day, when you give a
Homeburg man a bright golden daylight hour of leisure, he has no more
use for it than he would have for a five-ton white elephant with an
appetite for ice-cream. No listener will fail to hear the rumble of the
rising tide of democracy. No watcher of events will deny that the
women of all civilized lands will be enfranchised eventually as part of
the people entitled to give consent and no American possessed of political
foresight doubts woman suffrage in our land as a coming fact.

The discussion herein is strictly confined to the reasons why an amendment
to the Federal Constitution is the most appropriate method of dealing
with the question. This proposed amendment was introduced into
Congress in 1878 at the request of the National Woman Suffrage
Association. Since 1882 the Senate Committee has reported it with
a favorable majority every year except in 1890 and 1896. Twice only has
it gone to vote in the Senate. The first time was on January 25, 1887;
the second, March 19, 1914. In the House it has been reported from
Committee seven times, twice by a favorable majority, three times by
an adverse majority and twice without recommendation. The House has allowed
the measure to come to vote but once, in 1915. Yet while women of the
nation in large and increasing numbers have stood at doors of Congress
waiting and hoping, praying and appealing for the democratic right
to have their opinions counted in affairs of their government,
millions of men have entered through our gates and automatically
have passed into voting citizenship without cost of money, time or
service, aye, without knowing what it meant or asking for the
privilege.

Among the enfranchised there are vast groups of totally illiterate, and
others of gross ignorance, groups of men of all nations of Europe,
uneducated Indians and Negroes. Among the unenfranchised are the owners
of millions of dollars worth of property, college presidents and
college graduates, thousands of teachers in universities, colleges
and public schools, physicians, lawyers, dentists, journalists, heads
of businesses, representatives of every trade and occupation and
thousands of the nation's homekeepers. The former group secured its
vote without the asking; the latter appeals in vain to Congress
for the removal of the stigma this inexplicable contrast puts upon
their sex.

It is hoped this little book may gain attention where other means have
failed.

C.C.C.

January, 1917.

TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE CHAPTER I. 1
WHY THE FEDERAL AMENDMENT?

By CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT
There are seven reasons for Federal enfranchisement of women.
Other countries have so enfranchised women. Conditions of men's
enfranchisement in U.S. were easy. Many State constitutions today
practically impossible to amend. Election laws do not protect
State amendment elections from fraud. Men's right to vote protected by
Federal Constitution; state by state enfranchisement would not give this
protection to women. Woman Suffrage a national question. Decision
on technical and abstract question of Suffrage demands different
class of intelligence from election of candidates.

CHAPTER II 12
STATE CONSTITUTIONAL OBSTRUCTIONS
By MARY SUMNER BOYD
State Suffrage amendments defeated in recent years by technical
difficulties. Ratification by Legislature and People theory of State
Constitutional Amendment. So adopted in South Dakota and Missouri.
In most states technicalities make amending impossible. Classes of
technicalities. Limit to number of amendments.

"Constitutional majority." Passage of two Legislatures. More than majority
of the people required for ratification. Indiana. Time requirements.
New Mexico. Revision by Convention. Some states have no or infrequent
Constitutional Conventions. New Hampshire. Delaware Constitution alone
amended by Legislature or Convention without popular vote. Thirty
states gave foundations male suffrage by this easy means.

CHAPTER III 21
ELECTION LAWS AND REFERENDA

By CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT
State Election Laws defective. Many state suffrage amendments
undoubtedly lost by frauds in elections. In twenty-four states election
law or precedents offer no correction of returns in fraudulent amendment
elections. In twenty-three states Contest on election returns probably
possible. In eight states recount of votes made. A court procedure and
expensive. Punishment for bribery.
Relation to Contest. Ohio cases. Vagueness of election laws protects
corruption. Ignorant vote used by corrupt. Form of ballot often helps
corruption. Only 13 states have headless ballots. Form of Suffrage
amendment ballots in recent years aided in defeat of measure.
Examples. Non-partisan referendum not protected from fraud like party
questions. In most states women cannot be watchers at polls. Aliens can
vote in eight states. Illiterate can vote in most states. Résumé.

CHAPTER IV 36
THE STORY OF THE 1916 REFERENDA
By CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT
Three states voted on Woman Suffrage amendments. Some causes of
failure. Story of Iowa election. Woman's Christian Temperance Union
proves forty-seven varieties of corruption. South Dakota. Foreign vote
defeated Woman Suffrage there. Figures of some counties.
Relation between Prohibition and Woman Suffrage votes.

West Virginia.
Illiteracy and conservatism defeated Woman Suffrage there. Liquor influence
felt. Corruption in Berkely County, West Virginia. Special Legislative
session called but investigation of frauds abandoned.
Analysis of vote of certain counties. Résumé.

CHAPTER V 55
FEDERAL ACTION AND STATES RIGHTS
By HENRY WADE ROGERS
Judge of U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, N.Y.C.

Would Federal Amendment violate local self-government or conflict
with State Rights? States rights a sound doctrine, but has been
perverted, misapplied and carried to extremes. Henry St. George Tucker
maintains this way of gaining woman suffrage is contrary to rightful
demarcation of powers of federal and state governments. Constitutional
Convention 1787 provided that amendments be ratified by three-fourths
State Legislatures, State Constitutions may not violate United States
Constitution for this is supreme Law. Amendment to U.S. Constitution
valid regardless of provisions in State Constitutions. Ratification by
State Legislatures does not violate States rights for by it states
act as sovereigns. Same argument for removal of sex line in Suffrage as
that on which 13th, 14th and 15th amendments were based. 15th
amendment gives the sound basis for woman suffrage amendment.

CHAPTER VI 69
OBJECTIONS TO THE FEDERAL AMENDMENT By CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT
States Rights objection discussed. U.S. Constitution twice amended
recently under Democratic administration. Federal Prohibition Amendment
introduced by Southern Democrat. Even if all state constitutions gave
woman suffrage U.S. Constitution would contain discrimination against
women in word "male." Objection that woman suffrage will increase
Negro vote. If true, would be objection also to State suffrage amendment.
White supremacy will be strengthened by woman suffrage. Discussion of
figures of Negro and white population in 15 southern states. Testimony
of Chief Justice Walter E.

Clark.
Objection that women do not want the vote. Men of 21 and naturalized
citizens become voters without being asked. Only those who wish to need
use the vote. That many women do want the vote is shown by western figures
in election of November, 1916. Objection that unfavorable referenda in
various states show that constituency has instructed its representatives
in Congress against woman suffrage.
Unfavorable majority against a suffrage amendment is in reality a minority
of constituency. Objection on ground of political expediency.
Meaning of this argument as used by different interests. If government
"by the people" is expedient, then government by _all_ the people is
expedient. If Government by certain classes is better, then basis of
franchise should, be morality and education, not sex. Objection that
Woman Suffrage will increase corrupt vote. Woman Suffrage will increase
intelligent electorate. Statistics. It will increase the moral vote.
Only one in twenty criminals is a woman. Election conditions in equal
suffrage states.

Objection that Prohibition sentiment is stronger than Suffrage sentiment
since former has spread faster. Prohibition can be established
by statute and by local option and suffrage cannot.

CHAPTER I
WHY THE FEDERAL AMENDMENT?

Woman Suffrage is coming--no intelligent person in the United States or
in the world will deny that fact. The most an intelligent opponent expects
to accomplish is to postpone its establishment as long as possible. When
it will come and how it will come are still open questions.

Woman Suffrage by Federal Amendment is supported by seven main reasons.
These main reasons are evaded or avoided; they are not answered.

1. KEEPING PACE WITH OTHER COUNTRIES DEMANDS IT.

Suffrage for men and suffrage for women in other lands, with few and minor
exceptions, has been granted by parliamentary act and not by referenda.
By such enactment the women of Australia were granted full suffrage
in Federal elections by the Federal Parliament (1902), and each State
or Province granted full suffrage in all other elections by act
of their Provincial Parliaments.[A] By such enactment the Isle of Man,
New Zealand, Finland, Norway, Iceland and Denmark gave equal suffrage
in all elections to women.[A] By such process the Parliaments of
Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta gave full provincial suffrage to
their women in 1916. British Columbia referred the question to the voters
in 1916, but the Provincial Parliament had already extended all suffrage
rights except the parliamentary vote, and both political parties lent
their aid in the referendum which consequently gave a majority in every
precinct on the home vote and a majority of the soldier vote was
returned from Europe later.

By parliamentary act all other Canadian Provinces, the Provinces of South
Africa, the countries of Sweden[A] and Great Britain have extended far
more voting privileges than any woman citizen of the United States east
of the Missouri River (except those of Illinois) has received. To the
women of Belise (British Honduras), the cities of Rangoon (Burmah), Bombay
(India), the Province of Baroda (India), the Province of Voralberg
(Austria), and Laibach (Austria) the same statement applies. In Bohemia,
Russia and various Provinces of Austria and Germany, the principle
of representation is recognized by the grant to property-holding
women of a vote by proxy. The suffragists of France reported just
before the war broke out that the French Parliament was pledged to
extend universal municipal suffrage to women. Men and women of high
repute say the full suffrage is certain to be extended by the British
Parliament to the women of England, Scotland, Ireland and Wales soon
after the close of the war and already these women have all suffrage
rights except the vote for Parliamentary members.

These facts are strange since it was the United States which first
established general suffrage for men upon the two principles that "taxation
without representation is tyranny" and that governments to be just
should "derive their consent from the governed." The unanswerable logic
of these two principles is responsible for the extension of suffrage to
men and women the world over. In the United States, however, women
are still taxed without "representation" and still live under a
government to which they have given no "consent." IT IS OBVIOUSLY UNFAIR
TO SUBJECT WOMEN OF THIS COUNTRY--WHICH BOASTS THAT IT IS THE LEADER
IN THE MOVEMENT TOWARD UNIVERSAL SUFFRAGE--TO A LONGER, HARDER,
MORE DIFFICULT PROCESS THAN HAS BEEN IMPOSED BY OTHER NATIONS UPON
MEN OR WOMEN.

American constitutions of the nation and the states have closed the door
to the simple processes by which men and women of other countries have
been enfranchised. An amendment to our Federal Constitution is the
nearest approach to them. To deny the benefits of this method to the
women of this country is to put upon them a PENALTY FOR BEING
AMERICANS.

[Footnote A: See Appendix A for dates and conditions.]

2. EQUAL RIGHTS DEMANDS IT.

Men of this country have been enfranchised by various extensions of the
voting privilege but IN NO SINGLE INSTANCE were they compelled to appeal
to an electorate containing groups of recently naturalized and even
unnaturalized foreigners, Indians, Negroes, large numbers of illiterates,
ne'er-do-wells, and drunken loafers. The Jews, denied the vote in all
our colonies, and the Catholics, denied the vote in most of them,
received their franchise through the revolutionary constitutions which
removed all religious qualifications for the vote in a manner consistent
with the self-respect of all. The property qualifications for the vote
which were established in every colony and continued in the early
state constitutions were usually removed by a referendum but the
question obviously went to an electorate limited to property-holders
only. The largest number of voters to which such an amendment was
referred was that of New York. Had every man voted who was qualified to
do so, the electorate would not have exceeded 200,000 and probably
not more than 150,000.[A]
[Footnote A: Suffrage in the Colonies. New York Chapter. McKinley.]

The next extensions of the vote to men were made to certain tribes
of Indians by act of Congress; and to the Negro by amendment to the
Federal Constitution.
At least three-fourths of the present electors secured their votes
through direct naturalization or that of their forefathers. Congress
determines conditions of citizenship and state constitutions fix
qualifications of voters. In no instance has the foreign immigrant
been forced to plead with a vast electorate for his vote. The
suffrage has been "thrust upon him" without effort or even request
on his part. National and State constitutions not only close to
women the comparatively easy processes by which the vote was extended
to men and women of other countries but also those processes by
which the vote was secured to men of our own land. The simplest
method now possible is by amendment of the Federal Constitution.
To deny the privilege of that method to women is a discrimination
against them so unjust and insufferable that no fair-minded man
North or South, East or West, can logically share in the denial.We all know what it
means. Gibb is working again. And we all know what will happen next.

About two days later Gibb will be limping to the factory very late with
his off-foot done up in an enormous comforter. "That's what you have
done, boys," he will say with simple dignity, "you've hurt that old sore
foot of mine. It's never been right since I hurt it with the fire
company. It's in awful shape now. I guess I'll lose it at last. You
oughtn't to have done it, boys. Goodness knows, I'd have worked all
these years if I'd had any foot to speak of."

Then he goes in and resigns--after which the foot recovers in great
haste, and Gibb stands on it relentlessly twelve hours a day in the old
way, while he watches the world go round and waits for the judgment day.

You'd think from the way we hammer at both DeLancey and Gibb to go to
work that they would hang together, being in the same class. But they
don't. In fact they have the greatest contempt for each other. DeLancey
will not speak to Gibb, and thinks it is a crime that he isn't sent to
the stone pile; while Gibb speaks of DeLancey in pitying accents as a
young man who ought to know better than to waste his time herding a
little white pill into a hole in a cow pasture. Gibb is very severe on
the frivolities of the prosperous. He can't bear to see them frittering
away their time.

That's our leisure class in Homeburg, and it isn't growing. If it was
we'd be worried, and the Commercial Club would hold meetings about it.
And I'm just telling you these things so that you'll see why I am so
warped and foolish regarding Williston; it's just my small town
ignorance--My, I wish that chap would get a job!


VI

HOMEBURG'S WORST ENEMY

_How Old Man Opportunity Stands Outside the Town and Beckons to her
Greatest Men_


You don't say, Jim! Gosh, let me look! Where? Behind the big fellow in
the two-gallon plug hat? There--I see him! Yes, sir! It's he! I could
tell him anywhere. Do you suppose we could get up nearer? What, go up in
the elevator with him? Say, I haven't the nerve. No, I don't want--This
is close enough--Why, there isn't even a crowd! You mean to say he comes
down here just like this right along? Do you see him often?

Why, when I go home and tell the boys I watched Teddy Roosevelt go down
the street common as dirt and could have gone up in the same elevator
with him, they'll want me to give a lecture in the Woodmen Hall. It
certainly beats all what you can see in New York for nothing.

That's where you have all the luck, Jim--you big city folks. You keep
your interesting people at home; there's nowhere bigger for them to go.
No matter how famous or successful they are, they have to stick around
and mingle unless they get Europitis of the intellect. When you grow up
with a chum in New York and he discovers a talent that has been kicking
around in his garret ever since he was born, you don't lose him. He just
stays at home and grows up to fit the town. But when I want to see my
old Homeburg playmates who have succeeded, I have to go to New York or
Chicago or San Francisco, or some other big place where old Opportunity
keeps a wrecking crew busy all the time beating in doors. Opportunity
doesn't come into a small town and knock. He stands outside and beckons.

Life in Homeburg is one long bereavement because of this fact. Seems as
if the world was always looking Homeburg men over, the way a housewife
looks over an asparagus patch, and yanking out the ones who stick up a
little higher than the rest. We don't worry about the good who die young
in Homeburg; but the interesting who go early and forget to come back
make us sad and sore. No sooner does a Homeburg man begin to broaden out
and get successful and to hoist the town upward as he climbs himself,
than we begin to grieve. We know what is coming. Presently he will go
down to the _Democrat_ office and insert a notice, advertising for sale
a seven-room house with gas and water, good cistern, orchard with
bearing trees, good barn and milch cow, cement walks and watertight
cellar. And he will sell that place at a sacrifice, which he can well
afford, and go off to the city, where he will learn to wear a fur-lined
coat, kick about the financial legislation and visit us on Christmas Day
once per decade.

I sometimes wonder what Homeburg would be like if all her bright boys
and girls should come back. Don't suppose the town could hold them at
all. It would be stretched out of shape in a week. But it would be a
glorious place to live in, and wouldn't we shine in art and music and
politics and finance--to say nothing of baseball! Suppose we had Forrest
Brady back home, catching for the Homeburg team! He gets seven thousand
dollars a year from Boston now; but I remember when he helped put dents
in Paynesville baseball pride for nothing, and would pay some youngster
a quarter to hustle baggage at the depot in his absence. And suppose the
Congregational choir still had Mary Saunders! Why, we could charge a
dollar a seat for ordinary services, and people would come down from
Chicago to attend! When I think what she gets for one concert now, and
then think how long the Ladies' Aid Society has been working to paint
the church and haven't made it yet, it makes me wish we could put
Homeburg on wheels and haul it after some of our distinguished children.
And what if we had Alex McQuinn to write up the _Democrat_ again? Every
month we almost ruin ourselves at home buying all the magazines he
writes for; but when he was a fat young thing in spectacles hunting
locals and trying to write funny things for the _Democrat_, he wasn't
appreciated at all. Old Judge Hicks, who had no sense of humor, chased
him several miles once for telling how he tried to stop the 4:11 train
by yelling "Whoa" at it. And Editor Ayers had to fire Alex to keep the
peace.

When Rollin Derby, who draws pictures for your New York paper, went to
school, he could climb a tree by digging his bare toes into the rough
bark, but was not otherwise distinguished. When Maurice Gadby was a boy
in Homeburg, he went barefooted in summer with the rest of us, and who
could have guessed that he would grow up to give tango teas for your
four hundred and only allow the better quality of them to pay him
twenty-five dollars per cup at that? But the career that amuses me most
is Jack Nixon--"Shinner" Nixon, we used to call him. He commands a
battleship for a living now; and Homeburg is exactly seven miles from
the nearest stream that is navigable by a duck. We used to walk out to
that stream Saturday mornings, spend four hours building a dam and then
swim painfully on our elbows and knees in the puddle we had made until
dark, but Shinner wouldn't go in. He was a regular young Goethals when
it came to dam building, but he abhorred water, especially behind the
ears.

Back of my generation the batting average was just about as good. It
seemed to have been the fashion of Homeburg boys of thirty years ago to
go out and run Nebraska politically. Two governors and a representative
have come from our town. If we had them here now, we wouldn't have to
fight so desperately to get a county surveyor or coroner on the ticket
every four years. Samuel P. Wiggins, who now lives in a stone hut
covering an acre in Chicago and owns a flock of flour mills, was once
Sam Wiggins, who bought grain in our town and married the daughter of
one of our most reliable washerwomen. She comes back occasionally now,
and we can't see but that she's as nice as she used to be when she
hauled our family wash home in a little wagon every Saturday night.
Being rich hasn't hurt her at all, though it has spoiled her figure
beyond the utmost and most heartrending efforts of her clothes to
conceal.

Then there's Mrs. Maysworth. When she comes down from Chicago for a
visit, the old town fairly hums for a month. We pick up our interest in
art and woman's suffrage and cheap trips to Europe and Dante's
_Inferno_; the Shakespeare Club is revived, the bookstore sells its copy
of Browning, and the tone of the afternoon teas goes up about two
hundred per cent. Mrs. Maysworth was the ruling spirit of a little bunch
of prosperous Homeburg people who lived at the end of Milk Street--we
used to call it the cream end of Milk Street. When they were with us,
Homeburg was called the Athens of the Steenth Congressional District. We
heard singers and lecturers, who jumped towns of fifty thousand on
either side of us. We had state presidents of Women's Federations and
Church Societies. We had a free library before Mr. Carnegie had a bank
account. North Milk Street established it, and every Saturday afternoon
the muddy feet of the tough south side kids scuffled over Mrs.
Maysworth's hardwood floors, the first west of Chicago, while their
owners drew out books, the said library being located in an extinct
conservatory, which protruded from the house like a large wart.

Homeburg was a Mecca of learning and refinement in those days; and then
six of these families pulled out in the same year and moved to Chicago,
where they could soak up a little more culture instead of giving away
all they had. They left a chasm in our midst as big as the Grand Canyon.
It never has been filled--for me at least. I feel, when I wander up that
fine old shady street, past those houses filled with people who are only
as wise as I am, as if I were wandering through the deserted haunts of
an ancient and irreplaceable civilization.

That's the way it goes with us--one bereavement after another. It's
mighty hard to be a mother of sons in Homeburg. I worked in the
post-office for a year once--handed out mail--and I got to know just
exactly what most of the mothers in town wanted. I could please them
with a new magazine and mystify them with a circular or a business
letter. But if I wanted to light them up until they took the shadows out
of the corners as they went out, I would give them a letter from a son,
way off somewhere, making good. The best of them didn't write any too
often. Once a week is pretty regular, I suppose, from the other end; but
you should see the mother begin to come in hungry again the second day
after her letter came. And when a boy came home successful and
prosperous, and his proud mother towed him down Main Street on pretense
of getting him to carry a spool of thread home for her, it used to go
to my heart to see the wistful looks of her women friends. There is
hardly a family in Homeburg of the right age which hasn't a grown-up son
off at war somewhere--fighting failure. It's grand when they win; but I
hate to think of some of our boys who haven't come back.

If it's hard on the mothers, it's even harder on the Homeburg girls.
They say there are one hundred thousand old maids in Massachusetts. I'll
bet that's just about the number of Massachusetts young men who have
gone West or somewhere, and haven't remembered the things they said at
parting as well as the girls did. We've got plenty of girls in Homeburg
who are getting intimately acquainted with the thirties--fine girls,
still pretty, bright, and keeping up with the world. Young men come into
town and do their best to get on a "thou-beside-me" footing, but somehow
the girls don't seem to marry. At the root of almost every case there's
an old Homeburg boy. Maybe he's making good somewhere, and they're both
waiting until he does. Maybe he isn't making good and is too proud to
ask her to wait. Maybe she's waiting alone--because some other girl was
handier in the new place. And maybe it wasn't a case of wait at all,
only the boy who went away looked better to some Homeburg girl than any
of those who stayed at home. That was the case with Sam Flanburg and
Minnie Briggs a few years ago.

Sam is on the Chicago Board of Trade and is one of our old-time boys.
Two years ago he came back, roaringly prosperous, to visit for the first
time since he had left, and pretty suddenly he discovered to his
amazement that on packing up ten years before he'd left a pearl of great
price behind, said pearl being Minnie. In other words he fell in love
over his ears with her, and Minnie, who was one of our very nicest
girls, with a disposition like triple distilled extract of charity,
treated him like a dog. He stayed around for a month cluttering up the
Briggs's front porch day and night, while Minnie put up an imitation of
haughty indifference and careless frivolity which was as good as a show
for every one in town except Sam, who couldn't see through it. That's
one of our small town assets--you get to look on at most of the love
affairs. We watched Minnie and Sam with our hearts in our mouths for
fear she'd carry it too far and lose him, for every one had it straight
from Mary Askinson, who is intimately acquainted with a close friend of
Minnie's old school chum, that Minnie had been in love with Sam since
they graduated from the high school together. It was all we could do
from breaking in and interfering, especially when Sam went off his feed
and began to throw out ugly talk about going to the Philippines or some
place where fever can be gotten cheap. But one morning Sam came
down-town, and the first man who saw his face called up his wife and
told her the good news. Talk about extra editions for distributing news!
Before a city paper could have gotten an extra on the street, five
intimate friends of Minnie's had dropped in casually to see her, and
when they saw her face, of course they fell on her neck. Sam told Chet
Frazier next day that it made him so mad to think he'd lived twenty
years in the same town with Minnie and had never appreciated his
blessings that he felt like climbing Pikes Peak and kicking himself off.

There's Mary Smith. She's our prize old maid and dresses like a mail
sack full of government seeds, but they say she was the prettiest girl
in Homeburg when young Cyrus McCord went to Chicago to carve out his
future so that he could come home and marry her. But Cyrus didn't carve
out his future. He married it instead, and Mary is almost fifty now,
living alone and getting peculiar, like so many of our lonely old folks
do.

Taking it all around, you can't blame us for feeling a little bit
hostile to the big grabby towns which reach out like tax collectors
every year and take a tithe of our boy and girl crop--first choice too.
But of course we're enormously proud of our Homeburg people who go out
and help run the world, and we watch their careers like hawks. When
Chester Arnett was running for a state office out West, I'll bet twenty
Homeburg families subscribed for a Denver paper to read about him; and
when Deacon White was making his great plunges in Wall Street, Homeburg
looked at the financial page of the Chicago papers first and then read
the baseball. We're as happy over their success as if they were our
children--but it's always embarrassing for a little while when a
Homeburg man who has made good comes back to visit in the old town.
We're aching to rush up and wring his arm off, but we want to know how
he feels about it first. One or two experiences have made us gun-shy. We
can't forget Lyla Enbright, who moved away with her family years ago and
married a national bank or something of the kind in the East. She didn't
come home for ten years, but finally the father died and Lyla came back
to sell off some property. A lot of us had made mud pies with Lyla, and
while she hadn't shown any great genius in that or anything else, she
was jolly and we liked her, so we tried to rush up and greet her
rapturously.

Those who didn't do it say it was one of the funniest things that ever
happened in Homeburg, but I couldn't see it at the time. I was one of
the rushers. Lyla waited until my outstretched hand was within reaching
distance, and then she pulled a lorgnette on me. Say, Jim, did you ever
get right squarely in range of both barrels of an honest-for-God
lorgnette with about a thousand dollars worth of dry goods and a pinch
of brains behind it? If my turn ever comes to face a Gatling gun I hope
to march right up to it like a little man--but lorgnettes? No! Any
hostile army could lick Homeburg by aiming lorgnettes at it. I gave one
look at the thing and fell over myself in heaps getting away. I wouldn't
speak to Sim Bone for a week because he laughed. But after I had
recovered a little, I hunted up Chet Frazier in a hurry and told him
Lyla wanted to see him. By that I got even with Chet for about a dozen
practical jokes. When he got in range of that lorgnette, he said "Gosh!"
and actually ran. Then we survivors lined up and got some comfort out of
it, watching the rest get theirs.

As I said, Lyla and one or two others who have brought home their
prosperous and expanded corporal beings, and nothing else to speak of,
have made us a little timid about greeting our successful Prods. We hang
around all ready for action, but we need encouragement. We wouldn't
speak first for a farm. We wait for some calloused gabbler to break the
ice. Gibb Ogle usually does it. Gibb would act as a reception committee
for the Angel Gabriel without a quiver. He's always on the street,
anyway, propping up some building or other, and he is always willing to
waddle up to a returned governor or financier or rising young business
man, and stick out his unwashed paw, while we hold our breath and wait
for the result.

As a rule it's cheering. Our Homeburg boys don't fall down once in
twenty times. No matter who the visitor is, he grabs Ogle's hand and
yells: "Why, hello, Gibb, you fat old scoundrel, how's your sore foot?"
Then we crowd around and fight for the next turn, and go home and
hastily spread the news that So-and-so has come home big and prosperous
as all get-out, and not spoiled a bit.

Sometimes they don't come back at all, of course, and nervy scouts who
look up the delinquents in their city offices come back with badly
frosted ears and spread the warning. But there are few of these. Even
President Banks of the great F. C. & L. Railroad System, who played on
the Homeburg baseball nine thirty-five years ago, will stop puzzling
over the financial situation long enough to give the glad hand to a
Homeburg man during office hours. Of course I don't mean that any one
from Homeburg can break in on him and pile his desk full of feet. You
have to be a thirty-third degree Homeburger from his standpoint; that
is, you or your father must have stolen apples with him--I belong to the
inner lodge. My father and President Banks ate a peck of peaches one
night in Frazier's orchard, between them, and got half way through the
pearly gates before they were yanked back by two doctors. That's why
Banks took me to lunch when I went to call on him last month. If the
Government would let him, he'd give me a pass home.

I'll never forget the day when Banks came back to Homeburg. He hadn't
been back for thirty years and hadn't the slightest intention of coming
either, as he admitted afterward. But he was going through on his
special car, and old Number Eleven, which was hauling him, performed the
most intelligent act of its career. The engine broke down right at the
depot, and when Banks found he was in for an hour or two, he got out and
strolled down Main Street to see the town in which he had begun his
life.

It was a most depressing occasion. No one who had ever come back had
changed as much as Banks. If he had worn a pigtail and talked Choctaw,
he couldn't have grown farther away. It wasn't his fault. He tried his
best. But he hadn't talked our language for years. He couldn't get down
near enough to converse. He passed most of his playmates without
remembering them, but when he saw Pash Wade's sign, he went in and shook
hands with him. About forty of us came in to trade and watched him do
it. It was pathetic. They stood there like strangers from different
lands, Banks trying to unbutton his huge, thick ulster of dignity, and
not succeeding, and Pash trying to say something that would interest
Banks--along the line of high finance of course--state of the country,
etc. They gave it up in a minute, and Banks went out. He found Pelty
Amthorne and shook hands with him. Pelty is pretty loquacious as a rule,
but he couldn't talk to Banks--not that Banks, anyway. He'd never seen
him before. He said "How-dy-do," and, "It's a long time since you were
here," and Banks said, "It is indeed. I hope you and your family are
well." And then Pelty oozed hastily back into the crowd with a relieved
air as if he had done his duty, and Banks looked bored and took out his
watch. But just then Sim Askinson came up all out of breath and burst
through the crowd.

Sim is little and meek and has a hard time holding his own, even in our
peaceful world. But when he saw Banks, he snorted like a war horse and
grew up three inches.

"Hello, Pudge, you old son-of-a-gun!" he said, with both hands in his
pockets.

"Hello, Sim!" said Banks, sort of startled.

"Where'd you come from?" demanded Sim, "and why ain't you come before?
You're a nice friendly cuss, you are. Sucked any turkey eggs lately?"

"No, you knock-kneed dishwasher," said Banks as a grin began to edge its
way across his face. "Have you tried to sell any more toads for
bullfrogs?"

"No, nor I ain't fought out any bumble-bees' nest since the time you got
one up your pant leg and pretty near pounded yourself to death with a
ball bat," said Sim. "Can you still run as fast as the time Wert Payley
and I dared you to ride Malstead's bull?"

"Where's Wert?" demanded Banks. They were shaking hands now, using all
four of them. "Say, I've got to see him and Wim. Horn. I've got to leave
in a few minutes."

"Like fun you have," growled Sim, linking arms with Banks. "You seem to
think some one's chasing you. You're going to stay all night, that's
what you're going to do."

"I am not," said Banks; "and I wouldn't stay with you, anyway. You had a
garter snake in the bed last time I slept with you. I've got to see some
more of the boys, though."

"He thinks he's going away in a few minutes," said Sim to Wert Payley,
who had heard his name and was now shaking hands with Banks. "Why, the
old fat snide, nobody wants to see him outside of Homeburg. He's going
to get a free supper to-night. Remember Sadie Warren?"

"Remember!" shouted Banks. "What do you think I am?--Methuselah? I
remember more things than you ever heard of. Why, Sadie and I went
skating the night you couldn't find your fat horse and sleigh."

"Ya-a-a--" yelled Payley, with a sudden shriek of laughter. "Never knew
who took your rig, did you, Sim?"

"You--you--" said Sim, glaring at Banks. "You confounded horse thief, I
believe you took Sadie in my own sleigh."

"Ain't he bright, Pudge," gasped Payley, "only took him thirty years to
catch on."

"Well, Banksie," said Sim, "Sadie's been more particular about her
young men since that night. We've been married twenty-five years, and I
guess I'll let you come up and eat this evening, anyway. She lets me
bring most any old pelter home."

"Gosh, boys, I can't."

"Say, what are you? the porter on that varnished car down there?"
demanded Sim. "Won't they let you off a minute?"

"Tell you what we'll do," said Pelty Amthorne. "We'll take you to band
practice to-night. Sim still runs it, but he won't let me play any
more."

"I haven't touched a horn since I left Homeburg," laughed Banks. "But
I'd give ten dollars to see you and Wimble Horn blat away on those altos
again, with your eyes bulging out of your cheeks."

"We'll get Wimble and we'll break up band practice if you'll stay over."

"I--"

"No, you don't," said Sim. "I won't have riff-raff loafing around my
band."

"You won't, eh?" said Banks. "We'll show you. Come down to the car while
I send about forty telegrams, and then we'll fix you, Mister Askinson."

Which they did that night, while most of the town looked on. The next
fall Banks came back and stayed three days, and his conduct and that of
his old companions in crime set an example to our younger generation
which didn't wear off for years. They went out orchard robbing in an
automobile, and Banks said he never realized before the wonder of modern
conveniences.


VII

THE HOMEBURG WEEKLY DEMOCRAT

_Which Swamps the Post-Office Every Friday_


No, Jim, as I have already said about thirty-four times this week, I
don't care for a paper. Don't buy one for me. I could read your New York
papers for twenty-four hours at a stretch, and at the end of the time I
would have to stop some good-natured looking chap and ask what the news
was. It's all there, I know, but I don't seem able to find it. Even the
Chicago baseball scores are hidden in the blamed things. Instead of
putting them first, the way they ought to, they stick them down at the
end of the page. As for the editorial pages, I might as well go to
Labrador and hunt for personal friends as to read them. If there's
anything that makes a stranger feel about ten thousand miles from home,
with the cars not running, it is to get into the editorial page of an
unknown newspaper and try to sit in with the family discussions. It
makes me feel like a man who has gotten into a reunion of the Old
Settlers' Association of Zanzibar by mistake.

It's not much of a trick to go into a strange town and learn to navigate
from hotel to hotel, but it's a hopeless task to try to find your way
around a strange newspaper. Takes about two years to learn to read a
strange newspaper skilfully, anyway, and find your way through it
without banging into the want ads when you want to find the editorials,
and tripping over the poets' column when you are hunting for the crop
reports. You've been buying a paper every time you turned a corner for
the last week, Jim--you New Yorkers seem to have to have a paper about
as often as a whale needs a new lungful of air--and I've taken a hasty
look at all of them, but when I get home I am going to ask my wife what
has happened in the U. S. while I've been away from Homeburg. Outside of
the eternal Mexican case, I don't seem to have discovered a thing.

Mind you, I don't blame your papers for bearing down hard on the local
news. I suppose it's mighty interesting to you New Yorkers to learn
every morning just how much more money you owe on your new subway, and
whether or not the temperature of Mrs. Van Damexpense's second-best
Siberian wolf-hound is still rising. That's what newspapers are for--to
save you the trouble of stepping around and collecting the events of the
day from the back fence. But your papers don't bear down hard enough on
the Homeburg happenings, and that's why they don't suit me.

I don't pretend that our Homeburg paper is the equal of yours in any
particular. The best I can say for it is that it's no worse than it was
ten years ago. It hasn't any three-story type, and you could read it for
years without discovering who was being divorced in San Francisco or
murdered in Chicago. People who depend on it don't know yet that war has
been declared in the Balkans, and they won't hear any more politics
until 1916. All week long I think as little about the paper as all this.
But somehow, when Thursday evening comes around, rain or shine, I step
over to the post-office, and if my paper isn't there, I wait a few
minutes, growing more impatient all the time, and then I drift over to
the door of the _Homeburg Weekly Democrat_ office and join the silent
throng.

Like as not I'll find twenty people there. We don't expect any wild
news. There will probably not be anything in the _Democrat_ when it
comes out, but we want to make sure of it. We don't want to go home
without the paper. We've read it for twenty years, and every week we
open it up and poke through its internals after a sensation that will
stand Homeburg on its ear and split the Methodist church from steeple to
pipe organ. We're as patient as fishers in the Seine, and the fact that
the world has never rocked when the _Democrat_ did come out doesn't
discourage us any.

We want our paper, and so we stand there and grumble. Now and then one
of us stumps up the narrow hallway to the second story where the
_Democrat_ makes its lair, and looks on with an abused air while two
young lady compositors claw around the bottom of the boxes for enough
type to set the last items, and the foreman stuffs the forms of the last
two pages with old boiler plate, medicine ads and anything that will
fill. There isn't any reason for the _Democrat_ being late any more
than there is for the branch accommodation train, which got almost to
town on time once and stood beyond the crossing for twenty minutes
because her conductor forgot just when she was due and didn't want to
run in too soon. The _Democrat_ is just late naturally. It's part of its
function to be late. Makes it more eagerly sought after. We talk with
the foreman and make nuisances of ourselves generally, and presently old
man Ayers, who runs the paper, waddles in with another item to be set.
The compositors set down their sticks with a jerk and say, "Oh, my
land!" and the foreman goes and puts the item on the case with that air
of patient resignation which is a little more irritating than a swift
kick; and then Chet Frazier, if he's hanging around, which he usually
is, speaks up:

"For goodness' sakes, Ayers, let that item go and get to press," he
says. "Give it to me and I'll read it aloud down-stairs, your whole
subscription list's down there waiting."

But we have to wait just the same until the item is set up. Then the
foreman locks up the forms and bangs them on the face with his big
wooden plane, and he and the old man lug them out into the pressroom
while we all hold our breath--sometimes the form explodes on the way and
then we don't get the _Democrat_ for three days.

Pretty soon we hear the rattle-te-bang-te-clank-te-clicketty-clang of
the old press, and in five minutes more Editor Ayers comes out with an
armful of folded papers all fragrant with fresh black ink.

[Illustration: "She's out, boys," he says.]

"She's out, boys," he says. Then we grab copies and hurry to spread the
news of the birth of another _Democrat_. We open the sheet and look
carefully down the page where old man Ayers generally conceals his local
news. For a minute or two there is silence. Then somebody crams his
paper into his pocket. "Hmph, nothing in it," he says, and starts home.

He's right, too. Outside of the fact that it has another week of old man
Ayers's laborious and worried life in it, it is mighty bare. There isn't
enough news in it to cause a thrill in a sewing circle. But after supper
at home, when we look it over more carefully and the first hot flush of
anticipation has worn off, we do find a lot of information. We find that
Miss Ollie Mingle has gone to Paynesville for a two days' visit (aha,
that Paynesville young man's folks are going to look her over), and that
Mrs. Ackley is visiting her daughter in Ogallala, Neb. (Unless Ackley
straightens up, we don't expect her back.) Wimble Horn is erecting a new
porch and painting his house. (He must have beaten the bucket shop for
once.) We also find that Jedson Bane's peaches are ripe and of the best
quality, which fact he has just proven to the editor's entire
satisfaction. And that old Mrs. Gastit is feeling very poorly, and Pete
Parson, while working on his automobile the other night, contributed a
forefinger to the cause of gasoline by poking around in the cogs while
the engine was running.

All of this is news and interesting to us; so is the fact that Miss Ri
Hawkes is not teaching in the Snyder district school this week, because
of a sore toe. While this item does not jar the country quite so
extensively as it would if Miss Hawkes belonged to one of your leading
New York families, and was employing an eleven-thousand-dollar physician
to treat her for gout, it is just as important to Miss Hawkes. And there
you have the great keynote of our Homeburg journalism. In the eyes of
the _Democrat_ we are all equal.

There are not many of us Homeburgers. We will never see twenty-five
hundred again, for as families grow smaller, most of the Illinois towns
like Homeburg are contracting slowly in size even while prosperous. The
_Democrat_ hasn't above seven hundred subscribers, but every one of
those subscribers gets his name in the paper at least once a year, even
if it is only a general mention of his patriotism when he pays his
annual subscription. No baby born in Homeburg is too humble to get its
exact weight heralded to the world through the _Democrat_. Mrs.
Maloney's pneumonia and Banker Payley's quinsy grieve the town in the
same paragraph under the heading "Among our sick." The Widow Swanson's
ten-mile trip down the line to a neighboring town gets as careful
attention as Mrs. Singer's annual pilgrimage to California. In the
matter of news we are a pure democracy. The man who buys a new
automobile gets no more space than the member of Patrick McQuinn's
section crew who scores a clean scoop by digging his potatoes one week
ahead of the town. And when the humblest of us lies down in death he
does it with the serene consciousness that he will get half a column,
anyway, with more if his disease is rare and interesting, and that at
the end of the article the city will sympathize with the family in its
bereavement. When Mrs. Agnew died of her broken hip she got a column,
though she had been financially unable to take the paper for years,
while in the same issue Jay Gould got a two-inch obituary in its boiler
plate inside.

Your big papers pride themselves on their brevity, except in murder
cases, and I understand that almost every New York editor thinks he
could boil the story of the Creation down into less than the six hundred
words which the Bible wasted on it. But Editor Ayers could give all your
editors instructions in this kind of economy. If the Creation had
happened around Homeburg while he was on the job, he would have called
attention to it the next week about as follows:

"We understand there was a creation in these parts during the last week.
We did not learn the particulars but those who were on the ground at the
time say that it was a successful affair, and that the new world is
doing as well as could be expected under the circumstances."

Ayers would write it this way for two reasons. In the first place he
hates to write more than one paragraph. Coming after a hard day's work
collecting bills and chasing subscribers, it is a wearing effort.
Nothing gets much space in the _Democrat_ except obituaries and
marriages, and they are all contributed--the former by the relatives and
the latter by the minister. In the second place, there wouldn't be any
use of wasting a lot of space on a big item because by the time the
_Democrat_ comes out, everybody knows all about it, and the mere facts
would be stale and unimportant beside the superstructure of soaring
fancy which has been built up by the easy-running imaginations of our
chief news dispensers on the street corners. And so, when the creamery
burns down or the evening fast freight runs through an accommodation on
the crossing, the old man puts his duty off until the last minute and
then writes a few well-chosen lines merely to let us know that he is on
the job and lets no news escape him. When you are running a weekly
paper, your competitors in the news business are the talkers in the town
who mingle seven days a week and issue a hundred thrilling extras to
their fellow citizens before your press day comes around.

Besides, as I have said, old man Ayers can't afford to waste much time
chasing news. He has to get a living for himself as well as for the
_Democrat_, and keeping both his family and the paper alive is a
distinct feat performed weekly. His pay-roll for a foreman and two
girls must amount to over fifteen dollars a week, and that means cold
solid cash which must be wrung from a reluctant public. Seems to me I
never go into a store that I don't see old man Ayers trying to collect a
little cash on an advertising account or wheedling a subscriber into
coming out of the misty past and creeping cautiously down a few years
toward the present on his subscription account. If there is anything
which we can't do without and for which we positively object to paying
real money, it is our home newspaper. Sim Bone has a roaring shoe
business and pays cash for his automobiles, but he has often told me
that paying good paper money for advertising would be as wasteful as
eating it. He carries an ad in the _Democrat_ all the year and changes
it about every six months. It's July now, and he is still advertising
bargains in overshoes--but he won't pay any money. Ayers has to trade
the account out, as he has to do with every other advertiser in the
town.

People pity the poor ministers' families who have to live on the
scrambled proceeds of donation parties, but an editor's family in our
parts has even harder luck. I have seen Ayers order two suits of clothes
from a clothier who owed him a big bill and was getting wabbly, and then
pass by the meat market empty-handed, because his advertising account
there was traded out. He told me once that he has taken disk-plows,
flaxseed, magazines, encyclopedias and a new back porch in trade for
advertising and subscriptions, but that he has been wearing an obsolete
pair of spectacles, to his great discomfort, for ten years, because our
local jeweler will not advertise. The doctors in town carry cards in the
paper and owe him large amounts because his family is too healthy to
catch up with them; but it will be two years before either of our local
dentists accumulates a big enough bill to allow Mrs. Ayers to have some
very necessary construction and betterment work, as the railroad folks
say, done to her teeth.

If it weren't for the patent medicine ads, Ayers tells me, he wouldn't
be able to keep afloat for want of ready cash. He says a patent medicine
may be an abomination before the Lord, but that a patent medicine
advertising agent looks to him like a very present help in time of
trouble. The agent comes in and beats him down until he agrees to
publish several hundred yards of notices next to pure reading matter on
all sides for fifteen dollars. In determining his party affiliations,
therefore, he is more than apt to cast his lot with the party through
which he believes that ambition may be gratified. After the consummation
of the events above referred to, the conviction became settled
in the minds of white men at the South that the Democratic party in
that section would be, for a generation, at least, the only channel
through which it would be possible for any one to have his political
ambition realized. Hence, thousands of those who had previously joined
the Republican party returned to the Democratic since that party
presented the only hope of their future political salvation.

Mr. Rhodes would lead one to infer that the southern white men who came
into the Republican party in the South between 1868 and 1876 were
not among the most intelligent, cultivated, refined and representative
men of that section.

As a rule, they were men who belonged to, and were identified with, what
was known as the "Southern aristocracy." Such men, for instance, as
Ex-Governors Orr of South Carolina, Parsons of Alabama, Reynolds of
Texas, and Brown of Georgia. Also such men as Mosby, Wickham,
and subsequently Mahone, Massey, Paul, Fulkerson and Riddleberger, of
Virginia. General R. E. Lee was known to have leanings in the same
direction, but since he was not politically ambitious, his views were
not made a matter of public discussion. In addition to Ex-Governor
Brown of Georgia, they included such men as General Longstreet,
Joshua Hill, Bullock and many others of like caliber. Even Ben Hill was
suspected by some and accused by others of leaning in the same
direction. In Louisiana, not less than 25 per cent. of the best and most
substantial white men of that State became identified with the Republican
party under the leadership of such men as Ex-Governor Hahn and the
Honorable Mr. Hunt (who was appointed Secretary of the Navy by President
Garfield), Wells, Anderson and many others. General Beauregard was
known, or at any rate believed, to be in sympathy with these men and
the cause they represented, although he took no active part in politics.
But it was in my own State of Mississippi, where I had an intimate
knowledge of, and acquaintance with, the solid and substantial
white men who identified themselves with the Republican party and
whose leadership the newly enfranchised blacks faithfully followed.

They included such men as James L. Alcorn, who was elected Governor
of the State by the Republicans in 1869 and to the United States Senate
by the legislature that was elected at the same time. Alcorn was
one of the aristocrats of the past. He served with Mr. Lamar in the
secession convention of 1861 and was a general in the Confederate Army.

Mr. Rhodes failed to inform his readers of the fact that the Democratic
candidate for Governor against Alcorn, Judge Louis Dent, belonged to
that much abused class called "carpet baggers," but who, like thousands
of others of that class, both Democrats and Republicans, was a man
of honor and integrity.

The same was true of Tarbell, Powers, Pierce, McKee, Jeffords, Speed and
others of the same type in both parties. In addition to Alcorn, there
was Col. R. W.
Flournoy, who also served with Mr. Lamar as a member of the secession
convention and who was the Republican candidate for Congress against
Mr. Lamar in 1872, also Judge Jason Niles, who served as a member of
the State legislature, Judge of the Circuit Court and member of
Congress. His able and brilliant son, Judge Henry Clay Niles, is now
the United States District Judge for that State, having been appointed
by President Harrison. He has the reputation of being one of the
best and finest Judges on the Federal Bench. The State never had
before and has not had since, a finer judiciary than it had under the
administrations of Alcorn, Powers and Ames, the three Republican
Governors. In referring to the three justices of the State Supreme
Court, Mr. Rhodes made the statement that eligible material in the
Republican party was so scarce that, in order to get three competent
judges the Governor was obliged to select a Democrat. This is not true.
Chief Justice E. G. Peyton and Associate Justice H. F. Simrall were both
southern Republicans.

Justice Tarbell, though a so-called "carpet bagger," was also a Republican
and an able judge, who enjoyed the confidence and respect of the bench
and bar. When he retired from the bench he was made Second Comptroller
of the United States Treasury.

In addition to these able and brilliant men, I feel justified in
naming a few others, such as R. W. Millsaps, in whose honor one of the
educational institutions at Jackson was named; W. M. Compton; T. W.
Hunt; J. B. Deason; W. H. Vasser; Luke Lea, who was at one time United
States District Attorney; his son, A. M. Lea, who subsequently held
the same office; J. L. Morphis, who was one of the first Republicans
elected to Congress; Judge Hiram Cassidy, who was the recognized leader
of the bar in the southern part of the State; his able and brilliant
son, Hiram Cassidy, Jr.; and his law partner, Hon.

J. F.
Sessions. Among the circuit and chancery court judges there were such
jurists as Messrs. Chandler, Davis, Hancock, Walton, Smyley, Henderson,
Hill, Osgood, Walker, Millsaps, McMillan, and Drane.
Moreover, there were thousands of others, such as J. N. Carpenter and
James Surget, men of character, wealth and intelligence, who had no
ambition for official recognition or political distinction, but who
were actuated by what they honestly believed to be conducive to the best
interests of their country, their State and their section. In
fact, the southern white men that came into the Republican party were
typical representatives of the best blood and the finest manhood of
the South, than whom no better men ever lived. And yet to read what Mr.
Rhodes has written, one would naturally assume that the opposite of this
was true, that the Republican party in that section was under the
domination of northern "carpet baggers," a few worthless southern
whites and a number of dishonest and incompetent colored men.

This, no doubt, is the false, deceptive and misleading picture which had
been painted from the vividness of his partial, mistaken, prejudiced
and diseased imagination.

That many mistakes were made during the progress of Reconstruction
cannot and will not be denied. No friend and supporter of the congressional
plan of Reconstruction will maintain that every thing was perfect. On
the contrary, it is frankly admitted that quite a number of grave
blunders were made; but they were not confined to any one party. Neither
Republicans nor Democrats can justly lay claim to all that was good or
truthfully charge the other with all that was bad. Of those who were
selected as representatives of the two parties, the Democrats had,
in point of experience and intelligence, a slight advantage over
the Republicans; but in point of honesty and integrity the impartial
historian will record the fact that the advantage was with the
Republicans.

How could either escape error? The Civil War had just come to a close;
sectional animosity was bitter and intense. The Republican party was
looked upon as the party of the North and, therefore, the bitter enemy
of the South. The southern white men who joined the Republican party
were accused of being traitors to their section and false to their
own race and blood; they were called Scalawags. Through a process of
intimidation, chiefly by means of social ostracism, independent
thought and action on the part of southern whites, during the early
period of Reconstruction, were pretty effectually prevented.

Through such methods, they were quite successfully held under the subjection
and control of those whose leadership they had been accustomed to
follow.

Under such circumstances, the reader may ask the question, why was it
and how was it that so many of the best white men of that section joined
the Republican party? The answer is that, prior to the election of General
Grant to the presidency in 1868, very few of them did so.
It was never a question of men. It was always a question of party.
Under such circumstances, thousands of white men were obliged to vote for
certain Democratic candidates who were otherwise objectionable as
against certain Republicans who were otherwise acceptable.

In like manner, thousands of colored men were obliged to vote for certain
Republican candidates who were otherwise objectionable as against certain
Democrats who were otherwise acceptable. The wonder, therefore, is, not
that so many, but that so few mistakes were made; not that so many, but
that so few objectionable persons were elected to important and responsible
positions.

After the election of Grant, however, in 1868 the feeling of intolerance
somewhat subsided, resulting in a large number of accessions to the
Republican party from the ranks of the best and most substantial white
men of that section. But it was not until the reelection of Grant in 1872
that the feeling of political proscription, social ostracism and intolerance
among the whites seemingly disappeared. It was then that white men came
into, took charge of and assumed the leadership of the Republican party,
in large numbers. They then had nothing to fear and nothing to lose by
being identified with the Republican party when social distinctions
growing out of politics ceased to be effective. The South then
entered upon a new era which was destined to bring to that section wealth
and prosperity with happiness and contentment among its people of both
races, all living under local governments successfully controlled by
the better element of native whites with the cooperation and participation
to some extent of the newly enfranchised blacks.

The writer of this article has always believed it to be a misfortune
to his race and to the country, if conditions be such as to make it
necessary for any race or group, of which our citizenship is composed,
to act in a solid body with any one political party. The writer timely
called attention to this in a speech which he delivered on the
floor of the House of Representatives over thirty years ago.

He then made an appeal to the Democrats to change the attitude of their
party towards the colored Americans. While the colored people, he said,
were grateful to the Republican party for their physical emancipation,
they would be equally grateful to the Democratic party for their
political emancipation. While he was a Republican from choice, he personally
knew of many members of his race who were Republicans, not from choice
but from necessity, and that the Democratic party was responsible for
the existence of that necessity. Upon economic questions there are
differences of opinion among colored as well as white persons. It is
an injustice to the colored race and a misfortune to the country,
if they can not vote in accordance with their convictions upon
such questions. No race or group can be true and independent American
citizens, as all should be, when they are made to feel that the
exercise and enjoyment by them of their civil and political rights
are contingent upon the result of an election. It must be
said to the credit of the late Grover Cleveland that he did all in his
power both as Governor of New York and as President of the United
States to bring about this necessary change and reform in his party.

That his efforts were not crowned with success, was through no fault
of his.

The newly enfranchised blacks at the South, as I have endeavored to
show, had no other alternative than to act with the Republican
party.

That some objectionable persons should have been elected by them
under such conditions, could not very well have been prevented.

But the reader of Mr.

Rhodes's history cannot fail to see that he believed it was a
grave mistake to have given the colored men at the South the right
to vote, and in order to make the alleged historical facts harmonize
with his own views upon this point, he took particular pains to
magnify the virtues and minimize the faults of the Democrats and
to magnify the faults and minimize the virtues of the Republicans,
the colored men especially.

On page 97 of his fifth volume, for instance, Mr. Rhodes says: "But few
Negroes were competent to perform the duties; for instance, it was said
that the colored man, who for four years was Sheriff of DeSoto County,
could neither read nor write. The Negro incumbent generally farmed out
his office to a white deputy for a share of the revenue."
The foregoing is one of the most barefaced and glaring misrepresentations
that can possibly be made.

The reader will notice that the allegation is based upon "it has
been said." But if Mr.
Rhodes had been anxious to record only what was accurate and true, he
should have, as he easily could have done, found out just what the facts
were, as I have done. The facts were these. When Tate County was created
the greater part of the territory composing the new county had been
taken from the county of DeSoto. The then sheriff of DeSoto County
lived in that section which was made a part of the new county of Tate.
It thus became necessary for a new sheriff to be appointed by the Governor
for DeSoto County to hold office until the election of a sheriff at the
next regular election.

Rev. J. J. Evans, a colored Baptist minister and a Union soldier, was
thereupon appointed. Since this took place in 1873, the appointment
must have been made by Governor R. C. Powers, who had been elected
Lieutenant Governor on the ticket with Alcorn in 1869 and had become
Governor when Alcorn went to the United States Senate in 1871. Although
he was one of those who belonged to that class called "carpet baggers,"
Governor Powers was known to be an honest and an upright man and one who
exercised great care in all of his appointments. Governor Powers never
could have been induced to appoint as sheriff of any county a man
who could neither read nor write.

Mr. Evans discharged the duties of his position with such entire satisfaction
that he was nominated by the Republicans and elected to succeed
himself at the regular election in November, 1873, for the full
term of two years.

In 1875 he was renominated by his party to succeed himself. Mr. Evans's
administration had been so satisfactory that when the Democratic
county convention met to nominate a local ticket, no nomination was
made for the office of sheriff. But between the nomination and
election the Democratic organization in the State saw a new light.
It was decided that the State must be "_redeemed_," and that nearly
all of the counties must be included in that redemption. The Democratic
executive committee of DeSoto County was, therefore, directed to
meet and complete the local ticket by nominating a candidate for
sheriff.

This was done, and the ticket as thus completed was, of course, declared
elected and DeSoto County "_redeemed_."
It is a fact of which Mr. Rhodes may not be aware, that the county
sheriff in Mississippi is also the county tax collector, and as
such he is required to give a heavy bond. These bonds are usually given
by property owners of the county, nearly all of whom are white men and
Democrats. Had Mr. Evans been the man described by Mr. Rhodes, he never
could have qualified for the office. It is also a fact of which Mr.
Rhodes may not be aware, that the county sheriff in Mississippi as
the chief executive and administrative officer of his county, is
necessarily obliged, regardless of his own qualifications and
fitness, to employ a number of assistants and deputies to aid him
in running the office.

The number of persons, with the salary or compensation of each, is fixed
by law or the court and they are paid according to law out of money
appropriated for that purpose. In making these appointments, it is both
reasonable and natural that the appointing power would favorably consider
a suggestion or recommendation from any one of the sureties. At any
rate, Mr. Evans had the good sense to surround himself with honest,
efficient and capable assistants. He is still living at Hernando, DeSoto
County, Mississippi. As I write these lines, an autograph letter
from him is before me. While it is clear that he is not a college
graduate, his letter effectually disproves the allegation that
he can neither read nor write.

Moreover, even if his education is limited, this cannot be considered
exceptional, for the sheriffs of many counties in the South today are
illiterate and mentally undeveloped. I judge from the contents of Mr.
Evans's letter that there is no truth in the allegation that he divided
any part of his own compensation with any one or more of his assistants.
He left the office with a spotless record, every dollar of the public
funds that passed through his hands, and for which he was liable,
having been honestly and faithfully accounted for.

But even if Mr. Evans had been the man described by Mr. Rhodes, it would
have been manifestly unfair and unjust to the colored voters of Mississippi
to select him as a typical representative of those who were elected
to important and responsible positions by the votes of colored men.

Out of seventy-two counties of which the State was then composed, not
more than twelve ever had colored sheriffs at any time, and they did
not all hold office at the same time. Of those who were thus honored,
the writer of these lines was personally acquainted with not less than
ten. Mr. Evans was one of the few whom he did not then know
personally. If Mr. Rhodes had desired to be fair and impartial, he
would have taken all of them into consideration and would have drawn
an average. But this would not have answered his purpose. It would have
shown that in point of intelligence, capacity, and honesty the colored
sheriffs would have favorably compared with the whites.

Take, for instance, the county of Adams-Natchez, my own home, where two
colored men at different times held the office of sheriff. The first of
the two was Wm. McCary, who was elected in 1873.

He belonged to that small class known as free persons of color
during the days of slavery. His father was the leading barber of
Natchez for white business men and a private school teacher. He taught
the children of those who were identified with his own class, of which
there were quite a number, having privileges and advantages which were
denied to the children of slaves. His own children, of course,
were not neglected. Wm. McCary, therefore, had a good English
education. He was also a property owner and a taxpayer. He was one of
the two colored men who qualified as a surety on the bond of the
writer of these lines when he was appointed a Justice of the Peace
in 1869.

Mr. McCary was held in high esteem by the people of the city of Natchez
and the county of Adams, both white and colored. Prior to his election
to the office of sheriff he had served as a member of the board of
aldermen for the city of Natchez and also as treasurer of the county of
Adams, and subsequently as postmaster of Natchez, the duties of all of
which he discharged with credit to himself and satisfaction to the
public.
In 1875 he was succeeded as sheriff by another colored man, Robert
H.
Wood, who in all important particulars was about on a par with McCary.
Wood had previously served as mayor of Natchez, to which position he
was elected by popular vote in December, 1870.

He was serving the people of Natchez as their postmaster when he was elected
to the office of sheriff.

These men not only gave satisfaction to the people whom they served, but
they reflected credit upon themselves, their race, their party and
the community that was so fortunate as to have the benefit of their
services.

What was true of these two men was also true in a large measure of Harney
of Hinds, Scott of Issaquena, Sumner of Holmes, and several others.
But, if Mr. Rhodes had desired to be impartial and preferred to select
but one man as a typical representative of those who were elected to
such positions by the votes of colored men, he would have selected
B. K. Bruce, who was sheriff of Bolivar County when he was elected to
the United States Senate. Mr. Bruce needs no introduction to intelligent
and reading Americans. He developed into a national character. He
reflected credit not only upon himself, his race and his party but his
country as well. And yet he typified in a most remarkable degree the
colored men who were elected to important and responsible positions chiefly
by the votes of members of that race. But the reader of Rhodes's
history will look in vain for anything that will give him accurate
information along these lines.
His history, therefore, is remarkable, not only for what it says, but
for what it leaves unsaid. In fact, it is plain to the intelligent
reader that he started out with preconceived notions as to what the
facts were or should have been, and that he took particular pains to
select such data and so to color the same as to make them harmonize
with his opinions.

He thus passed over in silence all facts which could not be so distorted
as to make them thus harmonize.
They always give the prize to the
Paynesville Military Band, which has a five-foot painted bass drum and
has to play "Over the Waves" for a concert piece, because they haven't
got a decent cornet player in town. Sometime they will get a real
musician to judge these contests, and then we will win by seventeen
toots.

You may not believe it, Jim, but I am an alumnus of the Homeburg band.
Didn't suspect that I was anything but an ordinary citizen, did you? But
it's a fact. I am a band man. I'm too modest to brag about it, but I was
carrying a horn and had a uniform before I was eighteen. I suppose there
is nothing, not even the fire department, that fills a small town boy
with such wild ambition as a band. When I was twelve, I used to watch
that band in its more sublime passages, feeling that if I ever could
become great enough to play in it, others could run the country and win
its great battles with no jealousy from me. The snare drummer at that
time was a boy of sixteen. Of course, being snare drummer in the band,
he didn't mix around much with the common kids, and I didn't know him.
But I watched him until my ribs swelled out and cracked with envy; and I
used to wonder how fortune ever happened to reach down and yank that
particular boy so far up into the rarefied upper regions of glory.

When I was fourteen, I went after his job. But I never could learn to
play the snare drum. You have to learn to "roll," and I couldn't make my
left hand behave. I tried a year and would probably be trying yet but
for the fact that when Ed Norton left town, he traded me his ruinous old
alto horn for three dollars and a dog. There was about as much music
left in it as there is in a fish horn, but I was as delighted as if it
had been a pipe organ, and when the folks wouldn't let me practice at
home on it, I took it out in the country and kept it in Smily Garrett's
barn. After a while I learned how to fit my face into the mouthpiece in
just the right way, and as the sounds I made became more human, I sort
of edged into town, until finally I was practicing in our own barn. And
the next year Askinson let me come into the band and "pad" as second
alto during the less important engagements.

I played with the band for five years, and while I never got out of the
"thump section," which was what the trombonists and snare drummers and
the other aristocrats of the band call the altos, I had all the fun and
adventures that a high-priced musician could have had, and was perfectly
happy. I can still remember with pride the deep-green looks on the faces
of Pete Amthorne and Billy Madigan and Snoozer Ackley, as they watched
me marching grandly down the street lugging my precious old three
bushels of brass in my arms, and "ump-umping" until my eyes stuck out of
my head. Of course they didn't know that most of the time I was
watching a change in my notes half a bar away and wondering if I could
make it without falling all over the treble clef. I looked like Sousa to
them, and when I leaned grandly back in my chair at the band concerts
and borrowed a page of music from my neighbor--said page being mostly
Hebrew to me--I felt like a Senator or Chief Justice letting the common
herd have a look at him.

I pity the poor city boys who have to grow up nowadays and depend on
taxicabs and vaudeville for their excitement. Belonging to the band was
more fun than belonging to the baseball team or the torchlight brigade
or anything else. We got in on everything. They couldn't pull off a
rally or celebration, or even a really successful church social, without
us. I might say that the importance of a Homeburg citizen in the old
days was determined by whether or not the Homeburg Band escorted him to
his tomb. When great doings occurred in the neighboring towns, plain
citizens dug down in their pockets for car-fare, and then dug painfully
down once more for our car-fare. When an ordinary Homeburger wanted to
help boost McKinley to victory by parading in some distant town with a
torch, it cost him five dollars and a suit of clothes. But we not only
went free, but got two dollars apiece for plowing a wide furrow of glory
down the streets between rows of admiring eyes.

Those two dollars counted a lot in those days, too. It looked like an
easy income to us. All we had to do to earn it was to beg off from our
employers for half a day, travel thirty miles or so by train, usually
standing up and protecting our horns from the careless mob, march eight
or ten miles over unknown streets, picking out dry places underfoot and
notes from a piece of music bobbing up and down in the shadows above our
horns, and then drive home across country after midnight, getting home
in time to go to work in the morning. Why, it was just like finding
money; I've never had so much fun earning it since. I started once to
figure out how many miles our band marched during the first Bryan
campaign, but I gave it up. We never felt it at that time, but it made
me so tired counting that I quit with a distinct footsore feeling.

The most worrisome task about a Homeburg band was keeping it alive. I
suppose all small town bands have the same trials. We worked against
incredible difficulties. If city people had the same devotion to music
which we displayed, you would have a ten-thousand-piece philharmonic
orchestra in New York playing twenty-four hours a day for glory. We were
always building up our band with infinite pains, only to have Fate jerk
the gizzard out of it just as perfection was in sight. Talent was
scarce, and the rude, heartless city was forever reaching down into
Homeburg and yanking some indispensable players away. Of course there
was always a waiting list of youngsters who would coax a few hoarse
toots out of the alto horn, and we always had a bunch of kid
clarionetists who would sail along grandly through the soft parts and
then blow goose notes whenever they hit the solo part. But try as we
would, we could never get more than two cornets. One of these was Ad
Smith. He was a bum cornetist, but his brother Ed was a good baritone,
and we had to have both or none. The other was usually some anxious
young student who got along pretty well on plain work, but who would
come down the chromatic run in the "Chicago Tribune March" like a fat
man falling down the cellar stairs with an oleander plant.

As for trombones, there was a positive fatality among them; we were
always losing them. Trombone players have to be born, anyway, and there
was no hope of developing one. Besides, the neighbors wouldn't allow it.
Young Henry Wood showed promise once, but after his father had listened
to him for about six months, he took the slip end of his horn away from
him and beat carpets with it, until it was extinct as far as melody was
concerned.

For a year we had Mason Peters, who was a wonder on the slide trombone.
But he was only getting twelve dollars a week in Snyder's Shoe Emporium,
and Paynesville, which never tired of putting up dirty tricks on us,
hustled around and got him an eighteen dollar job up there--after which
they came down to Homeburg at the first opportunity with their band to
parade Peters before our eyes. It would have been a grand success if
they hadn't put Peters in the front row. He lived for his art, Peters
did, paying no attention to anything but his trombone, and besides he
was quite deaf. He got confused about the line of march, and when the
band swung around the public square he kept right on up Main Street all
alone, playing in magnificent form and solitary grandeur while the band
swung off the other way. The whole town followed him with tears of joy,
and he traveled two blocks before he became aware of the vast and
appalling silence behind him; then he kept right on for the city limits
on the run. It was a great comfort to us, and by the time we had gotten
through apologizing to the Paynesville boys for following Peters under
the impression that he was the real band, they had offered to fight us
singly or in platoons.

We used to watch every new citizen like Russian detectives, only we
searched them for horns instead of dynamite. Several times a trombonist
came to town, and music revived noticeably. But none of them lasted.
Trombonists seem to be temperamental, and when they are not changing
jobs they are resigning from the band because they are not allowed to
play enough solos. Our greatest bonanza was a quiet chap named Williams,
who came to town to work in the moulding room of the plow factory. After
he had been there a week, we discovered that he had a saxophone. No one
had ever heard or eaten a saxophone, but we looked it up, and when we
found out what it was, we made a rush for him. At the next practice he
appeared with a bright silver instrument covered with two bushels of
keys and played a solo which sounded like three clarionets with the
croup. We wept for joy and elected him leader on the spot.

This caused Sim Askinson to resign, of course, and he took Ad and Ed
Smith with him, and they remained in dignified and awful silence for two
years. But we didn't care. One saxophone was worth five baritones, and
while Williams was in town, we were an object of envy to all of the
other bands around. We changed our name to the Homeburg Saxophone Band,
and the way we rubbed it into Paynesville was pitiful. He was a little
fellow, Williams was, and short of wind, which caused him to gasp a good
deal during the variation parts. But he was willing. There was no shirk
about him. After a year our program usually consisted of eleven
saxophone solos and some other piece which could be done almost entirely
on the saxophone, and the jealous Paynesvillains used to ask why we used
nineteen men to play the rests when one man could have produced as much
silence at far less expense.

Those were glorious years; but of course they didn't last. Williams got
to resigning at the foundry just for the pleasure of having us come down
and plead with the proprietor to raise his pay. Finally he resigned so
much that the proprietor fired him, and then we had to take our caps in
hand and wheedle the Smiths and Askinson back into the band. I haven't
belonged for years, but they are still there. When I drop in at
practice, as many of the alumni do, Askinson greets me cordially and
takes some young cub's horn away from him, so I can sit in. It is just
like old times, especially when Ed Smith lays down his horn after a
slight altercation with some one and goes home never to come back--just
as he has done for the last thirty years.

That's the worst of music. One's art, you know, has so much influence
over one's temper. To see our band soaring majestically down Main Street
and playing "Canton Halifax" in one great throbbing rough-house of
melody you would never believe that anything but brotherly love existed
between the players. As a matter of fact, we never wasted any harmony
among ourselves. We didn't have any to spare. It took all we had to
produce the music. For twenty-five years the Smiths and Cooney Simpson,
who plays first clarionet, have been at swords' points, each with a
faction behind him. Cooney says it's a shame that a good band must limp
along with a cornetist who always takes three strikes to hit a high
note, and Ed Smith says Cooney wants to be leader and will not be
satisfied until he can play the solo and bass parts at once on his
clarionet. I can see Ed Smith now, after the band has run aground in
practice, taking his horn down and glaring around at Cooney.

"What you gobstick players need is a time-table," says he, "instead of
notes. Come in on the A about eight-fifteen. If you can do that well,
we'll try to struggle along."

"Don't get forte," Cooney replies cheerfully. "If you'd try to follow
both those cornets instead of rambling along by yourself, you'd split,
sure."

"Better play cornet, too, Cooney," says Ad Smith, whirling around.
"You've got enough mouth for both."

"Well, we ought to have a cornetist," says Cooney, "it's what we've
needed for years."

This riles the scrub cornet player, whoever he happens to be, and he
gets up excitedly. "We'd get along a lot better without one or two human
calliopes--" he begins.

"Set down, set down," says old Dobbs from the coils of his tuba. "Let
'em fight. They know it all between pieces--"

"Who asked you to horn in?" says Ed Smith, getting up preparatory to
going home with his baritone horn and leaving a broken and forlorn world
to grieve his loss.

Of course this is a crisis. But we never bust up. The Paynesville Band
busts up about twice a year over the division of profits and the color
of their new uniforms and the old question of whether the cornets or
trombones shall march in front. But we never go entirely to pieces. This
is largely because of Sam Green. He is our peacemaker and most faithful
player. He has played second alto in the band for thirty-five years
without a promotion, and is by all odds the worst player I ever saw,
being only entirely at home in the key of C; and he can't play
three-four time to save his soul. But his devotion is marvelous. He is
always the first man down to practice. He lights the lamps, builds the
fires, and when necessary goes out to Ed Smith's home and persuades him
to come back into the band for just this night. And whenever the dispute
between the factions gets to the point where Ed Smith begins gathering
up his doll things, Sam interferes.

"Come on now, boys," he pleads, "we've got to get this piece worked up.
You're all good players. Why, if Paynesville had you fellows, she'd
have a band. That was my fault that time. I'll get this here thing right
sometime. I'll sit out in the trio now and you fellows take it."

And pretty soon, as he argues, Ed's proud heart softens, and he comes
back with a glare at Cooney. Then Sim Askinson raps on his music rack
and says: "Gentlemen and trombone players," as he has for a quarter of a
century; and a minute later the band is tumbling eagerly through its
piece once more, all feuds suspended in the desperate effort to come out
even at the end with no surplus bars to be played by some floundering
horn.

Some time during the evening, as a rule, the various sections get
together on some passage and swim grandly through, every horn in perfect
time, and the parts blending like Mocha and Java. All differences are
forgotten, and the band breaks up with friendly words, Ed Smith and
Cooney going home together. Music has charms to soothe the savage beast,
and it also has a wonderful power of taking the temper out of the grocer
and the painter and the mahout of the waterwork's gasoline engine.

I never stepped so high or felt so grand as I did the first time I
marched out with the boys and went down the street in the back row of
the band next to the drums, a member in good standing, and dodging every
time I passed under a telephone wire to keep from scraping my cap off. I
never expect to feel that grand again. But I have an ambition. If ever I
should become so famous and successful that when I went back to Homeburg
to visit my proud and happy parents and stepped off of the 4:11 train, I
would find the Homeburg Marine Band there to meet me, I would know that
I had made good, and I would be content. The only thing that encourages
me in my ambition is that the band didn't come down to play when I went
away. Do you know, Jim, it's the funniest thing--the fellows we played
out-of-town in a blaze of glory never happened to be the chaps we came
down to the train to meet afterward, somehow. But I imagine we weren't
the only poor guessers in the world.


IX

THE AUTO GAME IN HOMEBURG

_It has Driven out Politics as a Subject of Debate_


Wait a minute, Jim. I want to look at this automobile.... Yes, I know it
is the sixth machine I've walked around in seven blocks, but what's time
to a New Yorker on Saturday afternoon? This nifty little mile-eater has
an electric gear shift, and I want to ask the chauffeur how he likes it.
Promised Ad Summers I would.

... Says it hangs a little if his voltage is low. That's what I'd be
afraid of--Gee! there's a new Jacksnipe with a center searchlight. Never
would do for rutty roads. How do you like the wire wheels, Jim? Bad for
side strains, I should think. Look at those foxy inset lamps. Listen to
that engine purr--two cycle, I'll bet. Say, Fifth Avenue is certainly
one great street! I could walk up and down here for a month. There's a
new Battleax--wonder if those two speed differentials are going to work
out.

All right, Jim, I'll reluctantly shut up and focus my attention on the
salmon-colored cloaks and green stockings for a while. I forgot that you
don't take any deep, abiding interest in automobiles. All they mean to
you is something to ride in, but to me they're as interesting as a new
magazine. I've spent about four days in the sales-rooms since I've been
here, and when I get home I'll be the center of breathless attention
until I've passed around all the information I've dug up. I could go
back without any information about the new shows, or the city campaign,
but if I were to come back without a bale of automobile gossip, I'd be
fired for gross incompetency from the League of Amateur Advisers at
Gayley's garage.

You thought I said I didn't own a machine? I did say it and I can prove
it. But do you suppose that makes any difference in Homeburg? Here the
other fellow's car is his own business. But in Homeburg an automobile is
every one's business. It's like the weekly newspaper, or the new
minister, or the latest wedding--it's common property. Since gasoline
has been domesticated we're all enthusiasts, whether we are customers or
not. The man who can't talk automobile is as lonely as the chap who
can't play golf at a country club. About all there is left for him to do
is to hunt up Postmaster Flint and talk politics. Flint has to talk all
our politics; it's what he's paid for, but it's mighty hard on him
because he just bought a new machine last spring himself.

No, you guessed wrong, Jim. Automobiles aren't a curiosity in Homeburg.
How many are there in New York? Say eighty thousand. One for every sixty
people. Homeburg has twenty-five hundred people and one hundred
machines, counting Sim Askinson's old one-lunger and Red Nolan's refined
corn sheller, which he built out of the bone-yard back of Gayley's
garage. That's one for every twenty-five people. Figure that out. It
only gives each auto five members of the family and twenty citizens to
haul around. We're about up to the limit. Of course another one hundred
people could buy machines, I suppose; but that would only allow twelve
and a half passengers, admirers, guests, and advisers for each car. That
isn't anywhere near enough. Why, it wouldn't be worth while owning a
machine! As it is, we are all busy. I've ridden in twenty new machines
this year and passed my opinion on them. It has taken a good deal of my
spare time. I've thought sometimes of buying one myself, but I don't
believe it would be right. If I had a car myself, I would have to
neglect all the others. It wouldn't do. Besides, I like to be peculiar.

Is every one in Homeburg a millionaire? Goodness, no! Our brag is that
we have less people per automobile than any other town, but then that's
the ordinary brag with an Illinois small town. We're not much ahead of
the others. Automobiles don't stand for riches out our way. Blamed if I
know what they do represent. Mechanical ingenuity, I guess. Country town
people pick up automobiles as easily as poor people do twins. And they
seem to support them about as inexpensively. If you were to take a trip
around Homeburg at seven A.M. on a Sunday morning, you would find about
eighty-seven automobile owners out in the back yard over, under, or
wrapped around their machines.

In the city you can only tell a car owner these days by his silk socks;
but in the country town the grimy hand is still the badge of the order.
The automobile owner does his own work, like his wife, and on Sunday
morning, instead of hustling for the golf links, he inserts himself into
his overalls and spends a couple of hours trying to persuade the
carbureter to use more air and less gasoline. The interest our
automobile owners take in the internals of their cars is intense. That
is the only thing which mars the pleasure of the professional guest,
such as myself. More than once I've sat in the sun twenty miles from
home while some host of mine has taken his engine down clear to the bed
plate, just because he had the time to do it and wanted to see how the
bearings were standing up.

I've lived in Homeburg all my life, but I haven't yet solved the mystery
of how some of our citizens own machines. It's a bigger mystery than
yours because our automobile owners pay their bills, and the mortgage
records don't tell us anything. There's Wilcox, the telegraph operator.
He makes seventy-five dollars a month. He works nights to earn it, and
he spends his days driving around the country in his runabout. He's
thirty years old, and I think he invested in an auto instead of a wife.

You can get a good meal in our local restaurant for twenty-five cents,
and when some painstaking plutocrat comes in and tries to spend a dollar
there, he has to be removed by kindly hands in a state of fatal
distension before the job is finished. A thousand dollars would buy
stock, fixtures, and good will. But a thousand wouldn't buy the
restaurant owner's automobile. He began with two hundred and fifty
dollars' worth of rubbish and a monkey wrench four years ago, and has
pottered and tinkered and traded and progressed until he now owns a last
year's model, staggering under labor-saving devices.

Our oculist, who does business in a tiny corner in a shoe-store and
never overcharged any one in his life, was our pioneer automobile owner.
He bought a homemade machine and a mule at the same time, and by
judiciously combining the two he got a good deal of mileage out of both.
He would work all morning getting the automobile down-town and all
afternoon getting the mule to haul it back. He has had three machines
since then, and the one he owns now is only third-hand.

For years Mrs. Strawn washed clothes for the town from morning till
night, two washings a day and all garments returned intact. Her boys
used to call at our house for the wash with a wheelbarrow. They come in
an automobile now. She bought it. It was a hopeless invalid at the time,
but they nursed it back to health, and I hear that next spring they are
going to trade it in for a new machine.... Why do I say machine? Because
that's what an automobile is out our way. It's a machine, and we treat
it as such. Most of our people couldn't take a lobster to pieces to save
their lives, but you ought to see them go through the shell of an auto.
Too many Americans buy portable parlors with sixty-seven coats of
varnish, and are then shocked and grieved to discover when too late that
said parlors have gizzards just like any other automobile and that they
should have been looked after.

I said there were one hundred automobiles in Homeburg. I was mistaken.
There are ninety-nine automobiles and one car. The Payleys own the car.
They bought it in New York, paid six thousand dollars for it, with a
chauffeur thrown in to drive them home, and they have been under his
thumb ever since. He was the only chauffeur who had ever been brought
alive in captivity to Homeburg, and the whole town inspected him with
the utmost care. He was the best stationary chauffeur I ever saw. He
seemed to regard that car as a monument and was shocked at the idea of
moving it around from place to place.

To assist Colonel Parke's memory I may state that the same night he left
Lydenburg on his way to Kruger's Post, the Boer, Harber, with his band
of traitors, proceeded through Klipkloof and across Joubertshoogte,
accompanied by 100 armed kaffirs, and passed Field-Cornet Zwart's farm
at Uitkomst, where the plundering of Boer families and homesteads was
commenced. This was done at the explicit instructions and in the
presence of the said Harber.

The same afternoon Harber was met by the forces under Colonel Parke,
at Rustplaats, whence they conjointly withdrew to Kruger's Post
Nek.

The next morning Colonel Parke once more proceeded to Ohrigstad, where our
families were again plundered and deported, and the homesteads raided
and burned.

Accordingly, only the last paragraph of Colonel Parke's report is correct;
and if your Excellency would take the trouble to question and examine
the families now in your hands--as requested in my former letter--your
Excellency would easily ascertain the true facts.

Since I construe from your Excellency's letter that Harber and his corps
are recognised as attached to His Majesty's forces, His Majesty's officers
must be held responsible for the acts of the said Harber and his
kaffir hordes.

It is not to be assumed that Harber and his corps, all armed, and
attired in khaki, only accompanied His Majesty's Army as spectators or
military attachés.

In conclusion, I observe that your Excellency repeats the allegation that
kaffirs are promiscuously shot, robbed, and maltreated by our burghers,
and that arms have been sold to the kaffirs by our burghers; and that
you trace the hostile attitude of the kaffirs towards us to these
causes.

As regards the hostile attitude of the kaffir races I can refer your
Excellency to a letter from his Honour, General Louis Botha, on the
same subject, wherein it is notified, _inter alia_, that prior to the
arrival of British troops in these districts, and in Swaziland,
the kaffir races, without exception, maintained a pacific attitude,
a fact which speaks for itself.

I must again repeat that the allegation that burghers sold arms to the
kaffirs is, so far as I know, untrue, and that this is merely one of the
many baseless accusations which have emanated from traitors and
unscrupulous individuals, and are offered by them as
"important information" to the British officers.

That kaffirs were provided by His Majesty's officers with arms can be
proved by intercepted documents, and I enclose herewith an extract
from the diary of Sergeant Buchanan, of Steinacker's Horse, from which
your Excellency will perceive that Lieutenant Gray, an officer of
His Majesty's Army, did personally supply kaffirs with arms and
ammunition.

I have the honour to be, Your Excellency's obedient servant, B. J.
VILJOEN.
_Assistant Commandant-General._

District of Lydenburg, _7th November, 1901._
THE OFFICER COMMANDING LYDENBURG,
DEAR SIR,--
I shall be obliged by your bringing the following to the attention of
Lord Kitchener, namely, that on 29th October last the residence of a
certain D. Coetzee, on the Vrischgewaard Farm, in this district, was
surrounded during the night of that day, or approximately at that
time, by His Majesty's troops, assisted by a number of kaffirs and
traitors, and that only the youth Abraham Coetzee, occupied the
house, and that this youth, while attempting to escape, was shot
through the stomach.

Coetzee was, furthermore, left in a shed, and robbed of all his personal
goods, and even his clothes.

The following day I found him still alive, but he died shortly after.
He declared that in the presence of white British troops he had been
robbed, knocked about, and kicked by armed kaffirs. I know beforehand
that the officer responsible for this noble and civilised act will
attempt to pervert the truth, because I am assured that His
Excellency cannot sanction this method of warfare.

But this case is personally known to me, and in my opinion, the
declaration of a dying man is worthy of credit.

I have the honour to be,
Your very obedient servant,
B. J. VILJOEN.

On the Veldt, _11th November, 1901._
TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE MARQUIS OF SALISBURY, _Prime Minister of His
British Majesty's Government_.

YOUR EXCELLENCY,
Whereas His Honour the Commandant-General, and other commanding
officers, have already more than once, without any result, protested
to the Commanding Officer of your Forces in South Africa against
the employment of savage aborigines in this War, and notwithstanding
that we have repeatedly assured your military authorities here that
on our side every effort is being made to keep kaffirs entirely
outside this War, this Government is of opinion that it is its duty
to earnestly and solemnly protest to your Government, as we hereby
do, and at the same time to point out and direct its attention to
the horrible and cruel consequences of this manner of warfare.But on the whole the automobile
owners are very well treated. Suppose we spectators should band together
and refuse to ride in the things or talk about them! The market would
be glutted with second-hand cars in a month.

We have no trouble with the speed limit in Homeburg either. This may be
due partly to our good sense, but it is mostly due to our peculiar
crossings. Homeburg is paved with rich black dirt, and in order to keep
the populace out of the bosom of the soil in the muddy seasons, the
brick crossings are built high and solid, forming a series of
impregnable "thank-ye-marms" all over the town. One of our great
diversions during the tourist season is to watch the reckless strangers
from some other State dash madly into town at forty miles an hour and
hit the crossing at the head of Main Street. There is a crash and a
scream as the occupants of the tonneau soar gracefully into the top.
There is another crash and more screams at the other side of the street,
and before the driver has diagnosed the case, he has hit the Exchange
Street crossing, which sticks out like the Reef of Norman's Woe. When
he has landed on the other side of this crossing, he slows down and goes
meekly out of town at ten miles an hour, while we saunter forth and pick
up small objects of value such as wrenches, luncheon baskets, hairpins,
hats, and passengers.

Last summer we picked up an oldish man who had been thrown out of an
unusually jambangsome touring car. He had been traveling in the tonneau
alone, and even before he met our town he had not been enjoying himself.
The driver and his accomplice had not noticed their loss, and when we
had brushed off and restored the old gentleman, he said "Thank God!" and
went firmly over to the depot, where he took the next train for home,
leaving no word behind in case his friends should return--which they did
that afternoon and searched mournfully at a snail's pace for over twenty
miles on both sides of our town.

Since the automobile has begun to rage in our midst, the garage is the
center of our city life. The machine owners stop each day for
lubricating oil and news and conversation; the non-owners stroll over to
inspect the visiting cars and give advice when necessary; and the
loafers have abandoned the implement store, Emerson's restaurant, and
the back of McMuggins' drug store in favor of the garage, because they
find about seven times as much there to talk about. The city garage
can't compare with ours for adventure and news. I have spent a few hours
in your most prominent car-nurseries and I haven't heard anything but
profanity on the part of the owners and Broadway talk among the
chauffeurs.

In the country it's different. Take a busy day at Gayley's, for
instance. It usually opens about three A.M., when Gayley crawls out of
bed in response to a cataract of woe over the telephone and goes out
nine miles hither or yon to haul in some foundered brother. Gayley has a
soft heart and is always going out over the country at night to reason
with some erring engine; but since last April first, when he traveled
six miles at two A.M. in response to a call and found a toy automobile
lying bottom-side up in the road, he has become suspicious and
embittered, and has raised his prices.

At six A.M. Worley Gates, who farms eight miles south, comes in to catch
an early train and delivers the first bulletin. The roads to the south
are drying fast, but he went down the clay hill sidewise and had to go
through the bottom on low. At seven, Wimble Horn and Colonel Ackley and
Sim Bone drop in while waiting for breakfast. Bone thinks he'll drive to
Millford, but doesn't think he can get in an hour's business and get
back by noon.

This starts the first debate of the day, Colonel Ackley contending that
he has done the distance easily in an hour-ten, and Sim being frankly
incredulous. Experts decide that it can be done with good roads. Colonel
says he can do it in mud and can take the hills on high; says he never
goes into low for anything. Bill Elwin, one of our gasless experts,
reminds him of the time he couldn't get up Foster's Hill on second and
was passed by three automobiles and fourteen road roaches. This is a
distinct breach of etiquette on Bill's part, for he was riding with
Colonel at the time and should have upheld him. The discussion is just
getting good when Ackley's wife calls him home to breakfast over the
'phone, and the first tourist of the day comes in.

He has come from the west and has had heavy weather. He asks about the
roads east. Gibb Ogle, our leading pessimist, hastens to inform him that
very likely the roads are impassable, because the Highway Commissioners
have been improving them. Out our way road improvement consists of
tearing the roads out with a scraper and heaping them up in the middle.
Roughly he seized the woman's arm and strove to uplift her.
She--she seemed not to heed him, but rose like one that is dreaming,
Slid from his grasp, and fleetly mounted the steps of the gangway,
Up to the hurricane-deck, in silence, without lamentation.

Straight to the stern of the boat, where the wheel was, she ran, and
the people Followed her fast till she turned and stood at bay for a moment,
Looking them in the face, and in the face of the gambler.
Not one to save her,--not one of all the compassionate people!
Not one to save her, of all the pitying angels in heaven!
Not one bolt of God to strike him dead there before her!
Wildly she waved him back, we waiting in silence and horror.
Over the swarthy face of the gambler a pallor of passion Passed, like a
gleam of lightning over the west in the night-time.
White, she stood, and mute, till he put forth his hand to secure her;
Then she turned and leaped,--in mid air fluttered a moment,-- Down,
there, whirling, fell, like a broken-winged bird from a tree-top,
Down on the cruel wheel, that caught her, and hurled her, and crushed
her, And in the foaming water plunged her, and hid her forever."

VI.

Still with his back to us all the pilot stood, but we heard him
Swallowing hard, as he pulled the bell-rope to stop her. Then, turning,--
"This is the place where it happened," brokenly whispered the
pilot.
"Somehow, I never like to go by here alone in the night-time." Darkly
the Mississippi flowed by the town that lay in the starlight, Cheerful
with lamps. Below we could hear them reversing the engines, And the great
boat glided up to the shore like a giant exhausted.

Heavily sighed her pipes. Broad over the swamps to the eastward Shone the
full moon, and turned our far-trembling wake into silver.
All was serene and calm, but the odorous breath of the willows Smote like
the subtile breath of an infinite sorrow upon us.

A DAY WITH THE DEAD.

"Good morning!"

said the old custodian, as he stood in the door of the lodge, brushing
out with his knuckles the cobwebs of sleep entangled in his
eyelashes, and ventilating the apartments of his fleshly tabernacle
with prolonged oscitations.

"You are on hand early _this_ time, a'n't you? You're the first
live man I've seen since I got up."
So saying, he vanished, and reappearing in a moment with a huge
brass key, entered the arch, unlocked the gate which closed the
aperture fronting the east like the cover of a porthole, and sent
it with a heavy push wide open."What's become of that tinware exhibit you used to
block up traffic with?"

Chet gets the laugh this time.

"That tinware exhibit stepped over from Jenniesburg in thirty minutes
flat this morning," says Chet. "Lucky you weren't on the road. I'd have
thrown mud on your wind shield."

"Say!" Pelty shouts. "Your machine couldn't fall ten miles in thirty
minutes. Why don't you get a real automobile? What will you give me to
boot for mine?"

They are off, and business in the vicinity suspends.

"I'll trade with you, Pelty," says Chet calmly--quite calmly. "Let me
look it over."

He walks carefully around the auto, opens the hood and looks in. "Funny
engine, isn't it? I saw one like that at the World's Fair."

Pelty has the hood of Chet's machine open too and is right there with
the retort courteous. "Is this an engine or a steam heater?" he asks.
"What pressure does she carry?"

"She never heats at all except when I run a long time on low," Chet says
eagerly.

"Oh, yes," says Pelty, "I never have to go into low much--"

"Gosh!" Chet explodes. "When you go up Sanders Hill, they have to close
two district schools for the noise."

"Only time you ever heard me I was hauling you up with your broken
jack-shaft," snorts Pelty. "You ought to get some iron parts for your
car. Cheese has gone out of style."

"You still use it for tires, I see," says Chet.

"Never mind," says Pelty wrathfully. "I get mileage out of my machine; I
don't drive around town and then spend two days shoveling out carbon."

"Peculiar radiator you've got," says Chet, changing the subject. "Oh, I
see; it's a road sprinkler. What do you get from the city for laying the
dust?"

"I can stop that leak in two minutes with a handful of corn meal," says
Pelty, busily surveying Chet's machine. "Do you still strip a gear on
this thing every time you try to back?"

"Why do you carry a horn?" asks Chet. "You're wasteful; I heard your
valves chattering when I was three blocks away."

"I didn't hear yours chatter much last Tuesday on Main Street," snorts
Pelty. "You cranked that thing long enough to grind it home by hand."

"Ya-a! Talk, will you?" yells Chet earnestly. "Any man who begins
carrying hot water out to his machine in a teakettle in September knows
a lot about starting cars."

"Well, get down to business," says Pelty. "You want to trade, you say.
I don't want that mess. It's an old back-number with tin springs, glass
gears and about as much compression as a bandbox. Give me five hundred
dollars and throw your automobile in. I need something to tie my cow to.
She'd haul away anything that was movable."

"Give you five hundred dollars for that parody on a popcorn wagon?"
snorts Chet. "Why, man, the poor old thing has to go into low to pull
its shadow! You're delirious, Pelty. I'll tell you what I'll do. You
give me a thousand dollars for my car, and I'll agree to haul that old
calliope up to my barn, out of your way, and make a hen roost out of it.
Come on now. It's your only chance."

Shortly after this they are parted by anxious friends, and the show is
over. I've known Homeburg men to give up a trip to Chicago because Chet
and Pelty began to trade their autos just before train time.

In New York an auto means comfort and pleasure and advertisement, like a
fur-lined overcoat with a Persian lamb collar. But in Homeburg it means
a lot more. It keeps us busy and happy and full of conversation and
debate. It pulls our old, retired farmers out of their shells and makes
them yell for improvements. It unbuckles our tight-wads and gives our
ingenious young loafers something to do. It promotes town pride, and it
keeps our money circulating so fast that every one has a chance to grasp
a chunk as it goes by.

It has made us so independent of railroads that we feel now when buying
a ticket to Chicago as if we were helping the poor old line out. Our
Creamery has been collecting milk and shipping butter in an old roadster
with a wagon bed thorax for a year. Two of our rural route mail carriers
use small machines, except in wet weather, and good-roads societies in
our vicinity are the latest fad. We raised one thousand five hundred
dollars last spring to bring the Cannon Ball Trail from Chicago to
Kansas City through our town, and our hotel-keeper contributed one
hundred dollars of it. He says we'll be on the gas-line tourist route to
the coast after the trail has been marked and drained and graded up
well.

But mostly the automobile means freedom to us. We're no longer citizens
of Homeburg but of the congressional district. We're neighbors to towns
we hadn't heard of ten years ago, and the horizon nowadays for most of
us is located at the end of a ten-gallon tank of gasoline. Why, in the
old days, you had to go fifty miles east and double back to get into the
north part of our county, and more of us had crossed the ocean than had
been to Pallsbury in the north tier of townships. Now our commercial
clubs meet together alternate months, and about seventeen babies in our
town have proud grandparents up there.

That's part of what the automobile means to us, Jim. Can you blame me
for being so interested in a new one? Maybe it will have some
contrivance for scaring cows out of a narrow road.


X

THE HOMEBURG TELEPHONE EXCHANGE

_What Would Happen if We Tried to Get Along With a City Operator_


All right, Jim! Having now completed the task of telephoning to Murray
Hill several thousand and something, I'm ready to join you at luncheon.
I'm glad I telephoned. I won't have to spend the afternoon doing it now
and, besides, I feel so triumphant. I got through this time without
forgetting to get a nickel first. I usually go into one of those wooden
overcoats and go through all the agonies of elbowing my way through half
a dozen centrals into some one's ear several miles away, and then
discover that I haven't anything but a half dollar. Then I have to stop
and begin all over again.

Telephoning is one of the prices you have to pay to live in a
metropolis, Jim. I suppose it will always hurt me to pay a nickel for
telephoning. Seems like paying for a lungful of air--and bad air at
that. Coming as I do from the simple bosom of the nation, where talk
over the wires is so cheap that you sometimes have to wait half an hour
while two women are planning a church social over your line, I can't
seem to resign myself to paying the price of a street-car ride every
time I breathe a few sentiments into a telephone. Rhodes makes use of
these words: "Whilst regretting some of the means employed, all lovers
of good government must rejoice at the redemption of Mississippi....

Since 1876 Mississippi has increased in population and in wealth; her
bonded indebtedness and taxation are low."[404] It is difficult to conceive
how an intelligent man, claiming to be an impartial recorder of
historical events, could be induced to make such glaring statements as
the above, when he ought to have known that just the opposite of what he
affirms is true, except as to increase in population and in wealth. "All
lovers of good government must rejoice at the _redemption_ of
Mississippi." _Redemption_ from what? The reader is led to believe that
the "_redemption_" is from bad to good government, from high to low
taxes, from increased to decreased bonded indebtedness, from incompetent,
inefficient and dishonest administration to one that was competent,
efficient and honest.

Now let us see just what the facts were and are. In 1875 there was just
one State officer to be elected, that of State treasurer, to fill the
vacancy caused by the death of George H. Holland, who was elected on
the ticket with Ames in 1873. The Democrats nominated Hon.
Wm. L. Hemingway, of Carroll County, whose nomination was
favorably received. He had the reputation of being a capable, an honest
and upright man. In addition to this, he was identified with that wing
of his party which was known to be progressive, liberal and fair. In the
early days of Reconstruction, the Democratic party in the State was sharply
divided into two factions. One, the major faction, adopted what they
termed a policy of "masterly inactivity," which meant that the
white Democrats should take no part in the organization of a State
government under the Reconstruction Acts of Congress, with a view
of making the work of Reconstruction as odious, as objectionable
and as unpopular as possible.

The other faction believed it to be the duty of the white Democrats to
take an active part in the formation of a State government, elect
as many Democrats to the State Constitutional Convention of 1868 as
possible with a view of framing a new constitution that would have very
few if any objectionable clauses.
Wm. L. Hemingway was one of that number, and as such he was elected
to the convention from Carroll County. The nomination of Hemingway for
State treasurer by the Democratic State Convention in 1875 was looked
upon as a concession to that element of the party.

The Republicans did not fail to see that in order to carry the State they
must nominate their strongest and best man, even if the election should
be fair and honest, which they hoped would be the case, but which hope
they had good reasons to apprehend would not be fully realized. Capt.
George M. Buchanan, of Marshal County, was nominated.
Buchanan had been a brave and gallant Confederate soldier. He had served
as sheriff of Marshal County for a number of years. He was strong, able
and popular. He was known to be the best fitted and best qualified
man for the office of State treasurer. With a half-way decent election
his triumph, even over so popular a man as Wm. L.
Hemingway, was an assured fact. The Democrats, however, had decided
that the time had come for the State to be "_redeemed_," peaceably
and fairly if possible, violently and unfairly if necessary.

With George M. Buchanan as the Republican candidate, it was necessary
to employ means which Mr. Rhodes so much regretted, but which he justifies
because, as he understands it, they were employed in the interest of
good government.

Was that true? Let us see. Buchanan, of course, was declared defeated and
Hemingway declared elected. Mississippi was thus "_redeemed_, for which
all lovers of good government must rejoice," but Mr. Rhodes failed to
record the fact that this man who was the representative of the
_redemption_ of the State had been in office a comparatively brief
period when the discovery was made that he was a defaulter to the
amount of $315,612.19.[405] It would be a reflection upon Mr.

Rhodes's intelligence to assume that he was ignorant of this important
fact.
Oh, no! he must have known about it, but to make any allusion to it
would be out of harmony with the purposes he evidently had in view. It
is safe to assume that, if the will of a majority of the legal
voters of the State had not been violently suppressed in the interest
of _good_ and _honest_ government, which would have resulted in the
election of honest George M. Buchanan, while the State would not have
been _redeemed_, it would have been saved from the loss of
$315,612.19.

The writer of these lines has never believed that Hemingway was the
personal beneficiary of this money or any part thereof, but that he was
the instrument in the hands of others. Still he was the official
representative of the _redemption_ of the State for which "all
lovers of good government must rejoice."
That there was a material increase in the population and in the
wealth of the State will not be denied. These results would have
followed, even if the State had never been _redeemed_. They were not
due to _redemption_ but in spite of it. In fact, there was a marked
increase in population and in wealth before as well as subsequent to
the _redemption_. But when the author states that the bonded indebtedness
and taxation are low, the impression necessarily made, and intended
to be made upon the mind of the reader, is that after the _redemption_
took place and as a result thereof, the _rate_ of taxation was
reduced, the volume of money paid into the State treasury annually
for the support of the government was less than it had been before,
and that there had been a material reduction in the bonded debt of
the State, neither of which is true.[406] If Mr.

Rhodes had been disposed to record the truth and nothing but the
truth, which is presumed to be the aim of an impartial historian, he
could have easily obtained the facts, because they are
matters of record. To give the reader an idea of what the facts were
and are, I will take, for purposes of comparison, one year prior and
one subsequent to the _redemption_ of the State. In 1875, the year
that the _redemption_ took place, the assessed value of taxable
property was $119,313,834. The receipts from all sources that year
amounted to $1,801,129.12. Disbursements for the same
year, $1,430,192.83. In 1907 the assessed value of taxable property
was reported to be $373,584,960. Receipts from all sources, same
year, $3,391,127.15. Disbursements, same year, $3,730,343.29. The above
figures speak for themselves. They are from the official records, the
accuracy of which cannot be questioned.[407] The records show too that
during the administration of Governor Ames, which was about half over
when the _redemption_ took place, the rate of taxation had been reduced
from seven mills to four mills and that a material reduction had
been made in the bonded debt of the State and that after the _redemption_
took place the tax rate was increased from four mills to six mills and
that by 1907 $732,890.74 had been added to the bonded debt of the
State. And yet in the opinion of Mr. Rhodes, these are conditions for
the deliverance from which the employment of regrettable means was
necessary, at which, however, "all lovers of good
government should rejoice," since their employment resulted in the
_redemption_ of the State.

But another evidence of Mr. Rhodes's careless and reckless manner of
stating alleged historical facts will be found in a paragraph on page
132 of his seventh volume. In speaking of Governor Ames's unsuccessful
efforts to have troops sent to the State to assist in maintaining
order and insuring a fair and peaceable election, he says: "A number of
the white Republicans of Mississippi who had quarrelled or differed
with Ames, among whom were both the United States senators, used
their influence against the sending of federal troops to Mississippi
and none were sent."

The two United States Senators at that time were J.L.
Alcorn and B.K. Bruce. Bruce was a strong friend and loyal supporter of
Ames and did all in his power to have Ames's request granted. This
statement is based upon my own knowledge. Senator Alcorn was one of the
few white Republicans who had quarrelled with Ames. In fact, he ran
as an Independent for governor against Ames in 1873. But he was a
Republican United States Senator and as such he had no sympathy with the
Democratic party. My relations with both senators were cordial. If Alcorn
had used his influence to prevent having federal troops sent to the
State, I am sure I would have known it. If he raised his voice or used
his pen for such purpose, that fact was never brought to my notice and
I am satisfied it was never done. My own opinion is that he remained
reticent and refused to take sides. The true reason why troops were not
sent in compliance with the request of Governor Ames was that, although
the President once directed that the requisition be complied with,
he later rescinded the order when informed by Republicans from Ohio
that such interference would cause the loss of Ohio to the Republicans
at the October election and would not save Mississippi.[408]
Referring to the Reconstruction policy, Mr.

Rhodes says: "Stevens' Reconstruction Acts, ostensibly in the interest
of freedom, were an attack on civilization.[409] In my judgment Sumner
did not show wise constructive statesmanship in forcing unqualified Negro
Suffrage on the South."[410] The truth is that Stevens and Sumner
were wiser than their day and generation. They were not favorable to
an immediate restoration of the States lately in rebellion upon any
conditions.
They knew that after the cessation of hostilities, the flower of the
Confederate Army, an army which it took the entire North with all of
its numbers, immense wealth and almost limitless resources four years
to conquer, would be at the South and that upon the completion of
Reconstruction and the withdrawal of the federal troops, that army could
be utilized to bring about practically the same conditions that existed
before the war. They, therefore, opposed immediate restoration. This
is what Mr. Rhodes characterizes as an attack on civilization. To what
civilization does he refer?

He surely could not have had in mind the civilization which believed in
the divine right of slavery and which recognized and sanctioned the right
of one man to hold another as his property; and yet this was the only
civilization upon which the rebuilding of the rebellious governments was
an attack.
But for the adoption of the Congressional plan of Reconstruction and
the subsequent legislation of the nation along the same line, the abolition
of slavery through the ratification of the 13th Amendment would have
been in name only, a legal and constitutional myth. This is the civilization,
however, an attack upon which Mr. Rhodes so deeply deplores. It is
fortunate for the country that a majority of Mr.
Rhodes's fellow citizens did not and do not agree with him along these
lines.

Since Stevens and Sumner could not secure the adoption of the plan advocated
by them, they proceeded to secure the adoption of the best one
that it was possible to obtain under conditions as they then existed.

Hence they insisted, successfully, as was then believed, that the
legislation, including the 14th Amendment, should be so framed as not
only to create national citizenship, as distinguished from State
citizenship, but that it should be made the duty of the Federal
Government to protect its own citizens, when necessary, against domestic
violence, to protect its citizens at home as well as when they are
abroad. The closing clause of the 14th Amendment, therefore, declares
that Congress shall have power to enforce the provisions of the
amendment by appropriate legislation.

But Mr. Rhodes says the Congressional plan of Reconstruction was a
failure. The defeat of the Republican party at the North, especially
in 1874, he believes "was due to the failure of the Southern policy of
the Republican party." In speaking of the action of President Hayes,
he says: "Indeed it was the final admission of the Republican party that
their policy of forcing Negro suffrage upon the South was a failure."
Is it true that Reconstruction was a failure?

That depends upon the view one takes of it. Admitting that some of the
things expected of it by many of its friends and supporters were not
fully realized, its failure even to that extent was, in a large measure,
one of the _results_ but not one of the contributory _causes_ of the
Democratic national victory of 1874. On the contrary, that policy was a
grand and brilliant success.

In the first place, when the split between Congress and President
Johnson took place, there was soon developed the fact that the enfranchisement
of the blacks was the only plan which could be adopted and by which the
one advocated by the President could be defeated. It had been seen and
frankly admitted that the war for the preservation of the Union could
not have been brought to a successful conclusion without putting the
musket in the hands of the loyal blacks. The fact was now made plain that
the fruits of the victory that had been won on the battlefield could
not be preserved without putting the ballot in their hands. Hence,
it was done.

Was this a mistake? Mr.

Rhodes says it was; but the results prove that it was not. But for the
enfranchisement of the blacks at the South at the time and in the way it
was done the 14th and subsequently the 15th Amendment to the Federal
Constitution never could have been ratified.
The ratification of these two measures alone vindicated the wisdom of
that legislation. The 14th Amendment, among other things, made the colored
people American citizens. It was, in effect, a recall of the famous
Dred Scott decision. The 15th Amendment gave the colored American access
to the ballot box, in every State in the Union. The fundamental principles
that were carried into effect through the Reconstruction acts of Congress
were embodied in these two amendments.
After the ratification of these measures, what had previously been
local to the South became national.

No State north, south, east or west can now legally and constitutionally
make or enforce any law making race or color the basis of discrimination
in the exercise and enjoyment of civil and public rights and privileges,
nor can it make race or color the basis of discrimination in prescribing
the qualification of electors. By the ratification of those
amendments the right of an American citizen to the exercise and
enjoyment of civil and political rights and the right to vote ceased to
be local and became national. But it is claimed by some that because
the 15th Amendment has been successfully evaded in certain States,
it is, for that reason, a failure.

I will state here in passing, however, that there has never been made
nor can be made any law or constitution that can not at certain
times and in some places be successfully evaded.
But this does not necessarily prove that the law or constitution in question
was a mistake and should, for that reason, be repealed. To this extent
and for the reasons and purposes above stated, the wisdom of the
Reconstruction Acts of Congress has been more than vindicated.

The failure of the Reconstruction legislation was not due so much to
the change of sentiment in the North as to an unwise interpretation of
these laws. This started with two unfortunate decisions rendered by the
United States Supreme Court, the result of two unwise appointments to
seats on the bench made by President Grant. The Judges referred to are
Waite of Ohio, and Bradley of New Jersey.

Both were supposed to be Republicans and believed to be in accord with
the other leaders and constitutional lawyers in the Republican
party in their construction of the War Amendments to the Federal
Constitution. But they proved to be strong States' Rights men and,
therefore, strict constructionists.
Those two, with the other States' Rights men already on the bench, constituted
a majority of that tribunal. The result was that the court declared
unconstitutional and void, not only the national civil rights act, but
also the principal sections of the different enforcement acts which
provided for the protection of individual citizens by the Federal
Government against domestic violence.

National citizenship had been created by the 14th Amendment and the
Federal Government had been clothed with power to enforce the provisions
of that amendment.
Legislation for that purpose had been placed upon the statute books and
they were being enforced whenever and wherever necessary, as in the
case of the lawless and criminal organization called the Ku Klux Klan.
But the Supreme Court, very much to the surprise of every one, stepped
in and tied the hands of the national administration and prevented
any further prosecutions for violence upon the person of a citizen of the
United States, if committed within the limits of any one of the
States of the Union.

In other words, if the State in which a citizen of the United States may
reside can not, does not or will not protect him in the exercise and
enjoyment of his personal, civil and political rights, he is without a
remedy. The result is that the Federal Government is placed in the
awkward and anomalous position of exacting support and allegiance from
its citizens, to whom it can not in return afford protection,
unless they should be outside the boundaries of their own country.
By those unfortunate and fatal decisions the vicious and mischievous
doctrine of States' Rights, called by some State sovereignty, by
others local self government, which was believed to have perished
upon the battlefields of the country, was given new life, strength and
audacity, and fostered by the preaching of the fear of "Negro domination."
The decision declaring the Civil Rights Law unconstitutional was
rendered by Mr.
Justice Bradley, and nearly all of those by which the principal
sections of the different enforcement laws were nullified, were
rendered by Chief Justice Waite.

If in every southern State today no attempt were made to violate or evade
the 15th Amendment and colored men were allowed free and unrestricted
access to the ballot boxes and their votes were fairly and honestly
counted, there would be no more danger of "Negro domination" in any
one of these States than there is of female domination in States
where women have the right to vote.

All that colored men have ever insisted upon, was not to dominate
but to participate, not to rule but to have a voice in the selection
of those who are to rule.

In view of their numerical strength the probabilities are that more
of them would be officially recognized than in other sections of the
country, but never out of proportion to their fitness and capacity,
unless there should be a repetition of conditions that existed in the
early days of Reconstruction, which is improbable. The dominant element
in the Democratic party in that section at that time adopted, as stated
above, the policy of "masterly inactivity" which was intended to prevent
white men, through intimidation, from taking any part in the organization
and reconstruction of the State governments, with a view of making the
governments thus organized as odious and as objectionable as possible,
in other words, to make them as far as possible "Negro governments."
This policy proved to be somewhat effective in many localities. The
result was the colored men found much difficulty in finding
desirable white men outside of the Democratic party for the different
local positions to be filled. This made it necessary in some instances
for colored men to be selected to fill certain positions for which white
men would have been chosen. But under the present order of things, a
repetition of any thing of this sort would be wholly out of the
question.

I can not close this article without giving expression to the hope
that a fair, just and impartial historian will, some day, write a
history covering the Reconstruction period, in which an accurate
account based upon actual facts of what took place at that time
will be given, instead of a compilation and condensation of untrue,
unreliable and grossly exaggerated statements taken from political
campaign literature.

JOHN R.

LYNCH, Author of "The Facts of Reconstruction."
4352 FORRESTVILLE AVENUE, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 

FOOTNOTES:
[402] Lynch, "The Facts of Reconstruction," Chapter XI

.

[403] The speech of R. B. Elliott in reply to A. H. Stephens in the debate
on the Civil Rights Bill was admitted to be one of the most eloquent
and scholarly speeches ever delivered in Congress. But Mr.
Rhodes's preconceived opinions and prejudices were so firmly fixed that
he was incapable of detecting anything in the acts or utterances of any
colored member of either branch of Congress that deserved to be
commended or favorably noticed.

[404] Rhodes, "History of United States," VII, 141.

[405] See Chapter 16 of Lynch, "The Facts of Reconstruction."
[406] See Chapter 8 of Lynch, "The Facts of Reconstruction."
[407] _Ibid._

[408] Lynch, "Facts of Reconstruction," pp. 150-151.

[409] Rhodes, "History of the United States," VI, 35.

[410] Rhodes, "History of the United States," VI, 40.

THE STRUGGLE FOR THE RECOGNITION OF HAITI AND LIBERIA AS INDEPENDENT
REPUBLICS

The doctrine of recognition as a principle of International law
appeared in definite form at the close of the American Revolution.

New states had arisen and successful revolutions had given birth to new
governments.[411] In Washington's Neutrality Proclamation of 1793, the
French Republic was recognized and the neutral position of America was
announced.[412] These principles, developed later by Adams and Jefferson
through application to the South American colonies which had declared
their independence of Spain, marked the beginning of the well-defined
international principle of recognition.[413]
Between 1810 and 1825, the Spanish colonies of Mexico, New Granada
(Columbia), Venezuela, Peru, Buenos Ayres, Chile, Ecuador and Upper
Peru (Bolivia) had revolted and rejected Spanish dominion.[414] In 1824,
England recognized the independence of Buenos Ayres, Mexico and Columbia,
and gave no heed to the assertion that this "tended to encourage
the revolutionary spirit which it had been found so difficult to
restrain in Europe

."[415]
But before the Spanish colonies had gained their independence, and
the spirit of democracy had begun to diffuse its light, movements were
on foot to secure the recognition of Haiti. After its discovery by
Columbus in 1492, Haitian soil was drenched with the blood of
the Spaniard and the native. Civil wars were begun and bloody scenes
were enacted.[416] In 1533, peace came between the natives and the
Spaniards. Soon thereafter, other Europeans began to arrive. The French
and the English were attracted by the stories of riches and their chances
for gain. The bloody struggles between these nations and the natives
fill many pages of Haitian history.[417] The inhabitants took now
the one side, now the other.

Led by Toussaint L'Ouverture, the cause of the French was
championed.
Finding the French yoke as heavy as the Spanish yoke, Toussaint struck
for absolute liberty.[418] He was not, in a real sense, the liberator
of the Haitians, as commonly supposed, but he was the precursor
of their liberty.[419] His deportation aroused them to struggle
with new vigor.If you want to see real, concentrated
politics with tabasco sauce trimmings, go to Homeburg or some other
small town which is fond of its school system and watch the women
getting out the vote.

Don't waste your time by coming the day before election. Don't even
expect to see any excitement in the morning. We don't smear our school
election troubles all over the almanac. We have the convulsion quickly
and get over it. You could stray into Homeburg on the morning of a
school election and not suspect that anything was going on except,
perhaps, a general funeral. Absolute quiet reigns. People are attending
to business with the usual calm.

You can tell that there is an election on by the little flags stuck out
a hundred feet from the engine-house doors, but that's the only way.
Inside the judges sit waiting for business about as successfully as a
cod fisher on the banks of the Mississippi. Now and then some one strays
in and casts a vote. By noon half a dozen are in the ballot box. The
nation is safe, the schools are progressing satisfactorily, the ticket
is going through without a kick. Even the candidates stop standing
around outside peddling their cards, go home to dinner and forget to
come back.

Pretty placid, eh? You bet it is. You know all about the calm before
the storm and the little cloud the size of the man's hand which comes up
about eight bells and does a general chaos business without any advance
notices. Well, that cloud in our school elections is impersonated by
Mrs. Delia Arbingle, and she usually arrives at the polls about three
P.M. with a new ticket, twenty warlike followers, and several thousand
assorted snorts of defiance.

That's when the storm breaks--and it's a whole lot bigger than a man's
hand by that time. Delia is a mighty plentiful woman physically, and
when she gets her war paint on, she's a regular cloudburst. As I say,
about three o'clock or thereabouts, we suddenly wake up to the fact that
we have a school election in our midst, and that unless we arise as true
men and patriots, it will soon be at our throats. How do we find it out?
Our women folks tell us. You never saw such devoted women folks, or such
determined ones, either. The minute Delia leaves her house with her
marauding band in her annual attempt to get the scalp of the high school
principal who whipped her oldest son seventeen years ago, the women of
Homeburg _rise_. And we men go and vote.

Now, we're not enthusiastic about voting. We're not afraid of Delia.
We've seen her insurge too often. But we go and vote, anyway. We go by
request. You've never had your loving wife come in and request you to
vote, have you, Jim? Well, you've got something coming. It's a request
which you're going to grant. You may not want to, but that has nothing
to do with the case. This is about the way it happens in Homeburg: I am
sitting in my office. I've got a lot of work on hand, and it's no use to
vote, anyway, and, to tell the truth, I had forgotten all about it.
Suddenly the telephone bell rings: I answer it. Here's my cross-section
of the conversation:

"Hello? Oh, hello!... No, I haven't voted yet.... Pretty busy to-day....
You're coming down?... No, I don't want to vote.--What's the use? It's
the same old.... Now, my dear, it's just the same old row. She can't get
any.... But I tell you I'm busy. You go on and.... Yes, of course I'm an
American citizen, but I don't get a salary for it. I'm trying to
earn.... Well, five minutes to cast a useless vote is.... Oh, all right.
Anything to please you.... No, I'll not call up Judge Hicks. He's old
enough to vote by himself.... Oh, all right.... Now, look here, my dear,
I can't ask Fleming to do that. His wife is a friend of Mrs.
Arbingle's.... Yes, I can say that, but it would be a threat.... Oh, the
schools will run anyway. Now, don't get excited.... All right, doggone
it, it'll make a regular fool of me though!... Good-by.

"Gosh."

I am mopping my forehead while I say that. I'm going to vote and, what
is more, I'm going over to get Judge Hicks, who is a cross old
man-eater, and get him to vote, and then I am going to call up Fleming,
who would otherwise vote against us, and tell him that if he doesn't
support our ticket, our grocery account will go elsewhere. I hate to do
that like the mischief. It isn't considered ethical in national
elections. But somehow we can't stop and discuss these fine points at
3.15 P.M. with our loving but excited wives. They don't seem to allow
it.

I get into my coat, pretty cross, and go down-stairs. Homeburg is
frantically awake. Down the street scores of patriots are marching to
the polls. They are not marching in lock-step, but most of them are
under guard just the same. Mrs. Chet Frazier, pale but determined, is
towing Chet out of his store. Mrs. Wimble Horn is hurrying down the
street with an umbrella in one hand and Wimble in the other. From the
post-office comes Postmaster Flint emitting loud wails. It is against
the law to leave the post-office unoccupied, but he can thresh that out
with his wife at home after he has voted. Attorney Briggs was going to
Chicago this afternoon, but I notice he is coming back from the depot.
Mrs. Briggs is bringing him. If I know anything about rage, Attorney
Briggs is ready to masticate barbed wire. His arms are making a blue
haze as they revolve. But he's coming back to vote. He can go to Chicago
to-morrow, but the nation must be saved before five o'clock.

I do my errands, losing one friend at Fleming's and considerable dignity
at the judge's, because the judge is an old widower and mighty
outspoken. Then I hurry back and go to the polls arm in arm with my
loving wife. We have to wait our turn outside the engine house. From
all corners of town the votes roll in, most of them under convoy. It's
a weird mixture--the men sullen and sheepish, the women inspired and
terrible. Even the candidates, most of whom are men, are embarrassed.
They are peddling tickets frantically, and whenever they falter and show
signs of running, their wives hiss something into their ears and brace
them up again.

The two hostile forces are eying each other with horrid looks. Mrs.
Arbingle is quiet but deadly. I never saw so much hostility coated over
one face as there is on hers. She is in her glory. This time she is
going to unmask the hosts of corruption, including those who will not
call on her, cave in the school ring, boot out the incompetents, and see
justice done to her son at last. Mrs. Wert Payley, who generally leads
the other side, has higher ideals, of course, and isn't so red in the
face. But she is hostile too. No viperess shall tread on the school
system if she can help it! She keeps her lieutenants hustling, and now
and then she looks over the crowd of captive men on the enemy's side and
issues a command. Then some woman talks to her husband, and he gets red
and mad and wags his arms. But in the end he goes over and talks to a
man on the other side. And then that conversation spreads like a prairie
fire, and the men knot up into a cluster, and hard words are used, and a
lot more friendships go into the back shop for repairs.

Five o'clock is coming fast. Mrs. Payley looks over her list. Young Ad
Summers has refused to budge from his shop. Miss Ri Hawkes blushes a
little and then goes away to a telephone. Pretty soon Ad appears. He's
panting, into the bargain. He gets in line, votes, and Ri walks away
with him. There is a sigh of relief from the Payley cohorts now because
old man Thompson is coming. He is over ninety and hates like thunder to
go out and vote, but he can't help himself. He has lived in a wheeled
chair for ten years and has to go wherever his granddaughter wheels him.
He passes in, muttering.

Only five minutes more. The excitement is intense. Hurrah! Some one has
gotten the telegraph operator's goat. He's coming on the run. That
probably means he'll go to the next dancing-club party. Judge Hicks
appears, four women around him. He is mad, but they are triumphant and
they look scornfully at me, saying "chump" with their eyes. He votes.
There is a commotion at the corner because Gibb Ogle has attempted in a
mild way to be corrupted. He wants to know why he can't sleep in the
South School basement. The women are indignant, and appoint two husbands
to deal with him. Gibb votes. Bang! The polls are closed. It's all over
but the counting.

We'd like to go back to work, but the suspense is too great. Not that we
have any suspense, but our wives have; and if we are worthy of the name
of men, we must help them endure it, even if we ourselves are not
interested in the schools. So we hang around and fume over the
jungle-fingered judges who take as much time as if they were enumerating
the fleas of Africa. Finally a cheer comes from the front of the crowd.
The women beside us gasp anxiously. Which side cheered? Hurrah! There's
Mrs. Payley waving her handkerchief. We win.

After that, we men can go. The schools have been saved by a vote of 453
to 78, but it was no thanks to us. No, indeed! If it weren't for the
women where would our schools be?

We've had women's suffrage in our midst for almost twenty years, as I
say, and looking back over it I can't see a single dull moment
politically. From the day when an indulgent State gave them permission,
our women have guarded the schools at the ballot box. They've done a
thorough and painstaking job, and I must say the schools have improved a
lot. But they have sprung a lot of political ideas which have made the
old-timers sit up with startled looks and scratch their heads
hopelessly.

That's what you are going to find out, Jim, when woman begins to vote
for herself around here and to vote you into the bargain. She isn't
going to play the game according to the old rules. She has no use for
them. She has her own way of going about things politically, and while
it is effective, its wear and tear on mankind is terrific. When the
Homeburg women first attempted to place a woman on the school board,
about fifteen years ago, most of the men objected, and they decided to
hold a town caucus and call the women in. There were a great many
reasons why a woman shouldn't leave her home and sit around on a school
board, and they felt sure that if they were to talk it over frankly in
meeting they could show them these reasons. And, anyway, the chairman
would be a man, which would of course take care of the situation.

So a caucus was called, and the Grand Opera House, which holds six
hundred human beings, and about a hundred boys in the front seats, was
jammed until it bulged. We knew that no woman could out-argue our
seasoned old politicians, and when Calvin Briggs, who has planned all
the inside work in the congressional district for twenty years, got up
and showed just why woman ought not to intrude, there was an abashed
silence all over the house, until Emma Madigan, who is a town character
and does just as she pleases, got up. She stood up about fifty-nine
seconds after Briggs had got a good start, and she argued with him as
follows:

"That's all right, Mr. Briggs--You can't make me sit down, Mr.
Chairman, you nor any of you politicians--You're a fine man to talk
about schools, Mr. Briggs. No, I won't stop. You know a lot about
children, don't you, coming up here with tobacco juice all over your
shirt front; and why don't you pay some taxes before you get up here and
tell how to run a town? All right, Chairman, I'm done."

But so was Briggs. We couldn't help laughing at him. Editor Simpson, who
runs the _Argus_, stepped into the breach and regretted greatly that so
disgraceful an attack had been made upon a well-beloved citizen by a
woman. No man would dare make such an attack, he opined. Then Emma got
up again. The chairman called her to order, but he might as well have
rapped down the rising tide.

"I know mighty well no man 'ud dare say what I did, Lafe Simpson," she
shouted. "'Nd you're the biggest coward of 'em all. If you thought you'd
have to lose the school printing, you'd vote for the devil for
president of the school board."

Of course it was perfectly disgraceful, but what could we do? Emma was a
woman. We couldn't throw her out. We couldn't even get her to listen to
parliamentary rules. And the worst of it was, she was telling the truth.
That was something no one presumes to tell in local elections. To do it
breaks the first commandment of politics; but what do the women, bless
'em, care for our commandments?

The president of the school board at that time was Sanford Jones. He was
a large party who panned out about ninety-five per cent. solemnity and
the rest water on the brain. At this point in the proceedings he judged
it best to rise and turn the subject by telling us why woman should stay
at home. He got about two hundred words into circulation before Emma got
up. Her scandalized women friends tried to pull her down, and Pelty
Amthorne yelled "whoa," but she was in politics to stay.

"You look mighty fine standing up there, Mr. Jones," she shouted, "and
tellin' us women to go back home where we belong. But I just want to
tell this here crowd to-night that if you wasn't tighter than the bark
on a tree, your wife wouldn't have to do her own washing.

"That's why you want her to home. So you can save money."

After that a gloom fell over the meeting, and as no one else seemed to
care to speak, people began adjourning on all sides of Emma. After every
one else had gone she adjourned. There was no further attempt to hold a
caucus that year, and even now when any school faction desires to get
together and discuss things, it carefully conceals the news from Miss
Madigan.

That was just one of the many little surprises woman has handed to us
in Homeburg politics. Since they've gotten interested in school
affairs, it beats all how much influence they've got. Take Sadie
Askinson for instance. Her husband wanted to run for member of the
school board, and Sadie didn't want him to, because he was away from
home enough nights anyway, goodness knows. Sim was stubborn, and said
the night before election that he was going down and have some ballots
printed, anyway, and run. But he didn't, because that night Sadie cut
every button off of every garment he had and threw them down into the
well. When the kindergarten business came up about ten years ago, old
Colonel Ackley hung out against it on the board. Said he wasn't going to
stand for wasting the people's money on such foolishness. But he did,
because the Young Ladies' Vigilance Society came and wept upon his
shoulder. It was organized for that purpose, and after the seventh young
lady had soaked up Ackley's coat, he said he'd either vote for
kindergarten or leave town, and he didn't care much which.

Mrs. Wert Payley, who really runs our school system and once marred her
proud record by defeating a good school superintendent because he didn't
give her daughter good marks, says the English suffragettes are poor
sticks and don't know how to demand the ballot. "If the Homeburg women
were ready to go after any more ballot than we have now," says she,
"would we fool away time getting arrested? Not much! We'd turn our
attention to the men. Every Homeburg woman would take care of her
husband and argue with him. Maybe all the men in town would find 'Votes
for Women' in place of their dinners on the table one night, and sewed
on to their coats the next morning. Maybe they would get corn-meal mush
for thirty days, and maybe, if any he politician presumed to get
obnoxious, he would be dealt with on the public street by a committee.
I know Homeburg, I think, and before Calvin Briggs would stand for the
guying he would receive after half a dozen women had gone down on their
knees to him and grabbed him around the legs so he couldn't get away,
he'd go out of politics. Suffragettes? Bah! What do they know about it?
I'd just like to know how long our men-folks in Homeburg would hold out
if we women were to get sick some fine morning and remain hopeless
invalids until we got the ballot. Why, if Wert Payley presumed to deny
me the ballot, I wouldn't think of parading about it. I'd just have the
girl starch his underwear for about two months, and if that didn't fetch
him, I'd start cleaning house and quit in the middle. The men will give
you anything, if you ask them the right way."

All of this makes us shiver, because we don't know just how long it will
be before the Homeburg women do make up their minds to have more
ballot. But when they do, we'll brace up like men and give it to them if
the State will let us. We just naturally hate to disappoint our
women-folks.


XII

CHRISTMAS AT HOMEBURG

_And What It Means_


Now don't urge me to stay longer, Jim, because I'm going to anyway. Just
to prove it, I'll take another of those gold-corseted cigars of yours,
which would elevate me from the masses to the classes in three puffs if
I smoked it back home. I didn't begin telling you how much I have
enjoyed myself because I intended to go and wanted to start the soft
music. I just wanted to begin on the job, that was all. It's going to
take me an hour, at least, to tell you and Mrs. Jim what this meal has
meant for me.

Oh, I know there have been better meals in history perhaps. I suppose
now and then a king gets real hungry and orders up a feed that might
have a shade on this one--just a shade. That's as far as I'll
compromise, Mrs. Jim. You needn't argue the matter. I'm a regular mule
in my opinions. But if you had given me crackers and cheese, and old,
decrepit flexible crackers at that, it would have been all the same. I'd
have devoured them with awe and thanksgiving, and I'd have marveled at
my luck. Here it is Christmas Day, and while half a million strangers in
New York have been eating their hearts along with the regular bill of
fare at boarding-houses and restaurants, I have been grabbed up and
taken into an actual home where they have a Christmas tree!

I always was lucky, Jim. Every time I fell out of a tree in my youth, I
landed on my head or some other soft spot, but this beats any luck I
ever had. Think of it! Me sitting around in the sub-cellar of gloom
yesterday afternoon with my family a thousand miles away, and deciding
to go to Boston for Christmas just because I'd have to travel ten hours
and that would be some time killed; and then, when I went to my
boarding-house for a clean collar, you called me up, just as I was
leaving. There's a special department of Providence working on my case.
Got a permanent assignment. And you are a Deputy Angel, Mrs. Jim.
Gratitude! You couldn't get my brand of gratitude anywhere. They don't
keep it in stock. Say the word and I will go back and eat a third piece
of mince pie, and die for you.

I don't want to seem critical. It's hard for me to criticize anything
right now, anyway, I'm so soaked and soused in contentment. I always
strive to admit all of New York's good points, and I've gotten a job
here largely to encourage the old town and help it along. But I do think
that in one respect New York is in the bush league, so to speak. Even
with such people as you to help, you can't get much Christmas out of it.
When I think of Homeburg to-day, I feel proud and haughty. You can beat
us on most everything else, but when it comes to Christmas, we can't
notice you. You don't compete.

Christmas in this town is only a feat. It's a race against time in two
heats. If you win the first one, you get your shopping done on the day
before. If you win the second, you get through Christmas Day, before
your patience and good spirits give out. Of course, New Yorkers, like
yourselves, who indulge in families and other old customs, have a mighty
good time out of it. Christmas with a family is great anywhere on earth.
But that isn't New York's fault. If you didn't have a family, you would
be dining out or going to some matinée or sitting around watching the
clock. That's where it is your solemn duty to envy Homeburg if you
never have done it before. And that's why I would be homesick to-day if
you had fed me four dinners, Mrs. Jim, and had been a whole covey, or
bevy, or flock, or constellation of angels--whichever is correct.

I don't mean to say that we get any more at Christmas than you do. We
enjoy and endure our presents, same as any one else. And we have just as
hard a time buying them. There aren't enough people in Homeburg to make
a Christmas jam, but we have our own line of troubles. The question in
Homeburg is not how to keep from spending so much money but how to spend
what we have. The storekeepers don't pamper us. In fact they are severe
with us. If we don't buy what they offer the first year, they store it
up, and we have to take it the next Christmas. When the Homeburg
storekeepers have had a bad season, it's up to us to go back the next
year and face the same old line of junk, knowing it will be there until
we give in and buy it. There are two Christmas gift edition copies of
Trilby still on sale in Homeburg, and Sam Green the druggist has had a
ten-dollar manicure set on sale for ten years now. He won't get another,
either. Says he was stung on the first one, and he's going to get his
money back before he goes in any deeper. It goes down about fifty cents
a year in price, and last year Jim Reebe almost bought it at four
dollars and seventy-five cents for Selma Snood. We have hopes of him
this year--unless he and Selma quarrel or get married, either of which
will be fatal.

No, we have our troubles, same as you do, and Homeburg is full, on the
day before Christmas, of worried fathers who duck into the stores about
seven P.M. and try to buy enough stuff to eat up a ten dollar bill
before the doors close. But that's a minor detail. What makes me love
our Christmas is its communism. Christmas isn't a family rite in
Homeburg. It's a town festival, a cross between Home-coming Week and a
general amnesty celebration.

[Illustration: In Homeburg you come home to the whole town.]

People come home for Christmas all over the world, but in Homeburg you
don't merely come home to your family, you come home to the whole town.
A week before the twenty-fifth the clans begin to gather. Usually the
college folks come first. Sometimes we have as many as a dozen, and the
whole town is on edge to see them. It's next to a circus parade in
interest because you never can tell what new sort of clothes the boys
are going to spring on us. In the grand old days when DeLancey Payley
and Sam Singer used to blow in for Christmas, they walked up from the
depot between double lines of admirers, and their clothes never failed
to strike us with awe. I remember the year when Sam came home with one
of those overcoats with a sort of hood effect in the back. I never
saw one before or since. He was also wearing a felt hat as flat as a
soup plate that year and a two-quart pipe fitted carefully into his
face, and when old Bill Dorgan, the drayman, saw him, he threw up both
hands and cried, "My gosh, it ain't possible!"

Then the children begin coming back. There is a great difference between
Homeburg and New York regarding children. In New York a child is
personal property. But in Homeburg a child belongs to the whole town. A
birth notice is a real news item in Homeburg. I suppose every baby is
personally inspected by at least two hundred citizens. We criticize
their care and feeding, suggest spanking when they are a little older,
quiver unanimously with horror when they begin to "flip" freight trains,
or get scarlet fever, and watch them grow up as eagerly as you New
Yorkers watched the Woolworth Building. When they are graduated from
high school we are all there with bouquets and presents, and we have an
equity in the whole brood. Molly Strawn, the washerwoman's daughter, got
more flowers than any one last year. And when they leave town to get a
job, if they are boys, or when some rude outsider breaks in with a
marriage license and despoils us of them, if they are girls, we all feel
the loss.

That's why Christmas means so much more to us. At Christmas time the
town children come home. Will Askinson comes home from Chicago. He's
doing very well up there, and it takes him two hours to get the length
of Main Street on the first day after he arrives. Every one has to hear
about it. Sadie Gastit comes home from Des Moines with a baby; regular
custom of hers. Sometimes she makes the same baby do for two years, but
usually it's a new one. I remember Sadie when she was only knee high to
a grasshopper, and her mother spanked her for climbing the Republican
flagpole during the McKinley campaign. The Flint children come down from
Chicago to visit their aunt. There were only a boy and girl when they
left fifteen years ago. Now there are eleven, counting wife, husband,
and acquisitions. Last year Ad Bridge brought a new wife home from
Denver to show us. Year before last Miss Annie Simms, who has been
teaching in Minneapolis, brought down a young man to show to her family.
She was going to be exclusive about it, but did it work? Not much. She
had to show him all around. We just happened over there in droves.
Everybody loves Annie and we were afraid for a little while that she was
going to be an old maid. The young man will bring her down this year I
suppose. They were married last June.

All the Homeburg children and grandchildren arrive in the last two days
before Christmas. They go home to their folks to deposit their baggage,
and then they all come down-town to the post-office, to get the mail
ostensibly but in reality to shake hands all around. The day before
Christmas is one long reception on Main Street. The old town fairly
hums.

As a matter of fact, Christmas is a good deal like a Union Depot. The
approaches are the most important part of it. By the day before
Christmas every one is feeling so good that things begin to happen.
People whom you have never suspected of caring for you come up to your
office and leave things--cigars, and toys for the children, and
Christmas cards. Men with whom you have quarreled during the year shake
hands violently all around a circle on the street, and when they come to
you they grab yours, too; and you begin to talk elaborately as if
nothing had happened--a good deal like two women wading through a formal
call; and it makes you feel so good that pretty soon you buy a box of
Colorado Durable cigars and you go over to the office of some man for
whom you have cherished an undying hatred, because he didn't vote for
you for the school board. You peek in his door, and if he isn't there
you go in and leave the cigars with your compliments.

There's never been a Christmas at home when I haven't been operated on
for a grouch of this sort, and most always it comes the day before. If I
had my way there wouldn't be any Christmas--only the day before. On the
day before you're so tickled over what the other folks are going to get
from you, and so full of pleased anticipation over what you may get from
the others, that good humor just bursts out all over you like spring
waters from the mountainside.

On Christmas Eve in Homeburg we all go to the Exercises to hear the
children perform. They build churches in Homeburg with big doors, so
that they can get big Christmas trees in them, and we grown-ups go
early in order to hear the kids squeal with wonder when they come in and
see those thirty-foot miracles in candles and tinsel, down in front.

Homeburg children are divided into two classes--those who get all of
their presents on the church Christmas trees and have to worry through
the next day without any additional excitement, and those who have to
sit through the Christmas Eve exercises with only a sack of candy to
sustain them and who land heavily the next day. The discussion as to
which is the better way has raged for a generation, anyway; at least my
chum and I discussed it every year when we were boys, he adhering to the
Christmas tree plan, and I to the homemade Christmas. And last year,
when he came back, we began it all over again, he claiming it was cruel
for me to make my children wait until Christmas Day, and I pitying his
poor youngsters for getting done with Christmas before it began.

Anyway, Christmas Eve is a grand occasion in the churches, and every
year I notice with amazement that some youngster whom I remember as
having been formally introduced to society through her birth notice only
a few weeks ago, seems to me, has gotten large enough to get up on the
platform and speak a piece. They do it at the most unheard-of ages. I
believe there are two-year-old orators in the Congregational Sunday
school. I get a good deal of suspense out of some of your baseball games
here, especially when Chicago plays you, but the most suspense per
individual I've ever noticed has been in these Christmas Eve exercises
when some youngster just high enough to step over a crack in the floor
gets up to recite a piece, and fourteen parents and relatives lean
forward and forget to breathe until he has gotten his forty words out,
wrong end to, and has been snatched off the stage by his relieved
mother.

Competition gets into everything, and it has marred our Christmas
exercises a little lately. The Methodists are growing fast and are very
ambitious. A few years ago they rented the Opera House, put in two
Christmas trees, with a real fireplace between and a Santa Claus who
came out of it, and charged ten cents admission. That embittered us
Congregationalists. It smacked of commercialism to us, and we would not
budge an inch--besides, there wasn't another Opera House to rent. So,
nowadays, our spirit of good-fellowship on Christmas Eve is sort of
absent-minded and anxious. We are always counting up our attendance and
sizing up our tree, and then sliding over to the Opera House and looking
over the Methodist layout. Sometimes we beat them, but generally they
have a regular mass meeting and make a barrel of money. Last year they
turned people away and brought Santa Claus on the stage in a real
automobile. We were so jealous that we could hardly cool down in time
for Christmas dinner.

As a matter of fact, the only unimportant part of our Christmas season
is Christmas Day itself. It is a sort of hiatus in the great doings.
When we go home on Christmas Eve, it is with a great peace. We have
bought our presents. We have greeted all the returned prodigals. We have
made up with a few carefully selected enemies. Our children have spoken
their pieces successfully at the Exercises, and have gotten a good start
on the job of eating their way through a young mountain range of mixed
candies and nuts. All the hustle and worry is over, and we are
unanimously happy. The week following Christmas will be one dizzy round
of parties and teas for the visitors, and Homeburg will be a delightful
place full of the friends of boyhood, with an average of one reunion
every fifteen minutes in and out of business hours. But on Christmas Day
nothing will happen except the dinner. We'll get our presents in the
morning, and then at noon the great crisis will come. We'll either
conquer the dinner, or it will conquer us.

You know how it is, Jim, because that's the kind of dinner you had
to-day. It was an Athletic Feat--not the ordinary kind of city dinner
where you save up carefully during seven courses, and finish strong on
the water crackers and cheese, but a real Christmas gorge. Every time I
sit down to a Christmas dinner in Homeburg, I feel more strongly than
ever that each guest should have his capacity stenciled on him. They are
more careful of box cars in this country than they are of humans. You
never see a box car that doesn't have "Capacity, 100,000 lbs." stenciled
on its sides. And they don't overload that car. There have been times
when, if I could have had "Capacity, two turkey thighs, one wish-bone,
trimmings, and two pieces of pie" stenciled on me, I would have gotten
along better. I think they ought to try to make these Olympic games more
useful to our nation by instituting a Christmas dinner marathon. If we
have to eat for two hours and a quarter, top speed, once or twice a
year, we ought to train up to the task as a nation.

I always feel a little bit nervous about Christmas dinner before it
comes, but I never shirk. As a matter of fact, it isn't really
dangerous. As far as I know, no one has ever actually exploded in
Homeburg on Christmas Day, and we all seem to get away with the job in
pretty fair shape. But it spoils the day for anything else. The town is
full, in the afternoon, of partially paralyzed men lying around on sofas
in a comatose condition, like anacondas sleeping off their bi-monthly
lunch. Homeburg is absolutely dead for the rest of the day. If a fire
broke out on Christmas afternoon, I don't believe even Chief Dobbs would
have the energy to get up and put on his helmet. It's hard on the exiled
men who just run down for Christmas Day from the cities. They don't get
in on anything but the eating. Sam Frazier struck last year. Said he
wasn't going to pay ten dollars fare and incidentals any more, to come
down from Chicago on Christmas Day for an all-afternoon view of his
brother's feet as said brother lay piled up on the sofa. He was going to
come down after this on the Fourth of July.

It doesn't affect the women so badly because they don't eat so much.
They haven't time. It takes two women to steer one child safely through
a Christmas dinner, anyway, and about three to get the ruins cleared
away in time to get up a light lunch in the evening for the reviving
hosts. If there is any one time when I would care less to be a woman
than at any other time, it is on Christmas afternoon, when her men-folks
have gone to sleep and have left her with a few cross children and a
carload of Christmas dinner fragments for company.

That's where you city folks with your servant problem have the best of
us, and I'll not dispute it, Mrs. Jim. On the other hand, the nicest
part of our Homeburg Christmas is the fact that, when we fold our tired
hands over our bulging vests after dinner and lie down to rest, we know
that there is no starving family in Homeburg which has had to celebrate
Christmas by taking on an extra drink of water and indulging in a long,
succulent sniff at a restaurant door.

We have poor people in Homeburg, but we haven't any poverty problem at
Christmas. It's a strictly local issue, and it is handled by the
neighbors. Having lived a long time in the city, Jim, you may not know
what a neighbor is. It's a person who lives close to you and takes a
personal interest in your affairs. A good neighbor is a woman whose
heart is so large that she has had to annex a lot of outlying territory
around the family real estate in order to fill it. No Homeburg woman
would think of constructing an extraordinarily fine pie without sending
a cut over to her nearest neighbor.

About Christmas time we are especially busy neighboring in Homeburg, and
any family which lives near us and isn't going very strong on the
Christmas game, because of sickness or trouble, is our meat. It would be
an insult to go across the town and help a family in some other
neighbor's territory, and that was what got Editor Simpson of the
_Argus_ into trouble a couple of years ago.

Simpson is a young man, a comparative newcomer from the city, and a very
earnest and enterprising party. He runs the _Argus_ on the high gear
and is never so happy as when he is promoting a public movement in real
city style. It occurred to Simpson three years ago that Homeburg ought
not to be behind Chicago in anything, especially at Christmas time, and
so he started a "Good-fellow" movement. They were running it strong in
Chicago that year. Any man who wished to be a "Good Fellow" sent his
name to the "Good-fellow Editor" and offered to provide a Christmas for
one or more poor children. It was a grand idea, stuffed full of
sentiment, and we Homeburg men just naturally ate it up. When the day
before Christmas came, seventy-five "Good Fellows" were on Simpson's
list, and they had offered to take care of one hundred and twenty-five
children, to give each a real Christmas. Simp's office was full of
groceries and toys, applicants were clamoring for children, all was
excitement and enthusiasm--and then a horrible state of affairs was
disclosed. Simpson hadn't provided any children. There was a bleak and
distressing lack of material for us to work upon. In all Homeburg there
weren't ten families who were going without Christmas turkey, or its
equivalent, and in each one of these cases some neighbor had sternly
ordered Simp to keep his hands off and mind his own affairs. There we
were--seventy-five Good Fellows with boatloads of cheer and no way to
dispose of it. The only person we could find in all the town to descend
on was Pat Ryan. We smothered him in groceries, and he ate himself into
biliousness that night and had to have a doctor for three days, which
helped some, but not much. On the whole, it was a dismal failure.

What! Nine o'clock? Excuse me, Jim. I seem to have taken root here. No;
I am going this time. Back to my room with Christmas all gotten through
with, thank goodness and you folks. You understand. You've made it as
nice for me as any two magicians could have done, and I thank you from
the bottom of my heart. But it's my last Christmas in New York, I hope.
Next month the wife and children come on, and by next Christmas, if I
have any luck at all, we'll join the happy army that swoops down on
Homeburg for the holidays. My, but it will be funny to look at the old
town from the outside in! Me--a visitor in Homeburg!

Do you know what prosperity is to a whole mob of city people, Jim? It's
the ability to pack up their families and go off to some Homeburg or
other for Christmas. And do you know what makes city people successful,
in Homeburg opinion? It's coming back every year. And if we made a
million apiece, and didn't preserve enough of the old home-town love to
come back, we wouldn't be successful in their eyes, not by a long way.
Well, good-by, philanthropists. And, thank you, I can't come again next
year. I'm saving up to go home. That's what makes this cigar taste so
good, Jim. Last one I'll smoke until carfare is in the bank.


THE END

[Illustration: Publisher's logo]