Neddy made a playful pretense of being distressed about
the expense, and this amused her so much that she nearly
exhausted herself with laughter--and this pleased HIM
so much that he repeated his jest a couple of times,
and added new and killing varieties to it.  'The idea of
hanging dried mushrooms in one's hair! If you will only
walk with that finery by daylight down to the brook, the children
will run after you, and point at you with their finger.'

"'Mushrooms!' replied Maud. 'Why, where are your
eyes again?'
"'Well, I suppose you don't mean to call them silver crowns?

Thank Heaven, my eyes are good enough yet to see
the difference between dried funguses and coined money!'

"'They are glittering stars, sir,' said Maud, short
and decided.

"'O indeed!'He believed she belonged to the royal family.
But I had my doubts.

We heard two or three different languages spoken by
people at the table and guessed out the nationalities
of most of the guests to our satisfaction, but we
failed with an elderly gentleman and his wife and a
young girl who sat opposite us, and with a gentleman
of about thirty-five who sat three seats beyond Harris.
We did not hear any of these speak.  But finally the
last-named gentleman left while we were not noticing,
but we looked up as he reached the far end of the table.
He stopped there a moment, and made his toilet with a
pocket comb.  So he was a German; or else he had lived
in German hotels long enough to catch the fashion.
When the elderly couple and the young girl rose to leave,
they bowed respectfully to us.  So they were Germans, too.
This national custom is worth six of the other one,
for export.

After dinner we talked with several Englishmen, and they
inflamed our desire to a hotter degree than ever,
to see the sights of Meiringen from the heights of
the Bruenig Pass.  They said the view was marvelous,
and that one who had seen it once could never forget it.
They also spoke of the romantic nature of the road over
the pass, and how in one place it had been cut through
a flank of the solid rock, in such a way that the mountain
overhung the tourist as he passed by; and they furthermore
said that the sharp turns in the road and the abruptness
of the descent would afford us a thrilling experience,
for we should go down in a flying gallop and seem to be
spinning around the rings of a whirlwind, like a drop
of whiskey descending the spirals of a corkscrew.
I got all the information out of these gentlemen that we
could need; and then, to make everything complete, I asked
them if a body could get hold of a little fruit and milk
here and there, in case of necessity.  They threw up their
hands in speechless intimation that the road was simply paved
with refreshment-peddlers. We were impatient to get away,
now, and the rest of our two-hour stop rather dragged.
But finally the set time arrived and we began the ascent.
Indeed it was a wonderful road.  It was smooth, and compact,
and clean, and the side next the precipices was guarded
all along by dressed stone posts about three feet high,
placed at short distances apart.  The road could not have
been better built if Napoleon the First had built it.
He seems to have been the introducer of the sort of roads
which Europe now uses.  All literature which describes
life as it existed in England, France, and Germany up
to the close of the last century, is filled with pictures
of coaches and carriages wallowing through these three
countries in mud and slush half-wheel deep; but after
Napoleon had floundered through a conquered kingdom he
generally arranged things so that the rest of the world
could follow dry-shod.

We went on climbing, higher and higher, and curving hither
and thither, in the shade of noble woods, and with a rich
variety and profusion of wild flowers all about us;
and glimpses of rounded grassy backbones below us occupied
by trim chalets and nibbling sheep, and other glimpses
of far lower altitudes, where distance diminished the
chalets to toys and obliterated the sheep altogether;
and every now and then some ermined monarch of the Alps
swung magnificently into view for a moment, then drifted
past an intervening spur and disappeared again.

They are, "_The Priest's Well_," "_The Fairies' Sabbath_,"
here given, and "_The Fairy Tutor_," being the first,
the third, and the seventh, of the entire present series.
Upon these three tales the foregoing attempt at fixing
the generic notion of a fairy was intended to bear. Should
pretty Maud, the stone-mason's daughter, our heroine
for to-day, find the favour in English eyes which her
personal merit may well claim, the remaining two are not likely
to be long withheld.

The illustrations which shall now follow, drawn from
distinguished authorities, aim at showing the consonancy of
Herr Willkomm's pictures with authentic representations of
Elfin superstition already known to the world. If, however,
the criteria which have been proposed, have been rightfully
deduced, the illustrations should as materially serve us
in justifying these by proof.

Amongst the numerous points of analogy which strikingly
connect our tale with popular tales and traditions
innumerable, _three_ are main to the structure of the tale
itself. They may be very briefly described as--
I. The Heathenism of the Fairies.
II. Their need, thence arising.

III. Maud's ability to help them.

* * * * *
I. The opinion, which sets the fairies in opposition
to the established faith of all Christendom, is widely
diffused. To the _Breton_ peasant, as M. de la Villemarqué
has above informed us, his Korrigan is a heathen princess,
doomed to a long sorrow for obstinately refusing the
message of salvation.

The brothers Grimm, speaking of the fairies in _Ireland_,
say that "they are angels cast out from heaven, who
have not fallen as low as hell; but in great fear and
uncertainty about their future state, doubt, themselves,
whether they shall obtain mercy at the last day."

{K}
Of the fairies in _Scotland_, it is averred by the
same learned and exact writers, that "they were originally
angels dwelling in bliss, but who, because they suffered
themselves to be seduced by the archfiend, were hurled
down from heaven in innumerable multitudes. They shall
wander till the last day over mountains and lakes.

They know not
how their sentence will run--whether they shall be saved or damned;
but dread the worst."

Tales, in many parts of Europe, which represent the fairies
as exceedingly solicitous about their salvation, and
as _inquiring of priests_ and others concerning their
own spiritual prospects, for the most part with an
unfavourable answer, tend to fix upon them a reproachful affinity
with the spirits of darkness

.

* * * * *
II. That the powerful fairies, who have appeared to us,
from childhood upwards, as irresistible dispensers of good
and evil to our kind, should _need aid_ of any sort from
us, is an unexpected feature of the fairy lore, which breaks
by degrees upon the zealous and advancing inquirer.

The two excellent brothers Grimm, in the most elaborate
and comprehensive collection,{L} probably, of national
traditions that Europe possesses, have furnished us with
various instances. We select a very few. In the following
graceful Alpine pastoral, the need of human help attaches to an
exigency of life or death:-- 

GERMAN TRADITIONS.
No. CCXX. _The Queen of the Snakes._
"A herd maiden found upon the fell a sick snake lying and almost
famished. Compassionately she held down to it her pitcher of milk.
The snake licked greedily, and was visibly revived.After dinner the guests of both sexes distributed themselves
about the front porches and the ornamental grounds belonging
to the hotel, to enjoy the cool air; but, as the twilight
deepened toward darkness, they gathered themselves together
in that saddest and solemnest and most constrained of
all places, the great blank drawing-room which is the chief
feature of all continental summer hotels.  There they
grouped themselves about, in couples and threes, and mumbled
in bated voices, and looked timid and homeless and forlorn.

There was a small piano in this room, a clattery, wheezy,
asthmatic thing, certainly the very worst miscarriage
in the way of a piano that the world has seen.  In turn,
five or six dejected and homesick ladies approached
it doubtingly, gave it a single inquiring thump, and retired
with the lockjaw.  But the boss of that instrument was
to come, nevertheless; and from my own country--from Arkansaw.

She was a brand-new bride, innocent, girlish, happy in herself
and her grave and worshiping stripling of a husband; she was
about eighteen, just out of school, free from affections,
unconscious of that passionless multitude around her;
and the very first time she smote that old wreck one
recognized that it had met its destiny.  Her stripling
brought an armful of aged sheet-music from their room
--for this bride went "heeled," as you might say--and bent
himself lovingly over and got ready to turn the pages.

The bride fetched a swoop with her fingers from one end
of the keyboard to the other, just to get her bearings,
as it were, and you could see the congregation set their teeth
with the agony of it.  This is a fair question, but the answer
we can give is satisfactory. The originals of all his
translations, except _Gil Blas_ and the _Bachelier de
Salamanque_, were printed; and therefore any attempt
at wholesale plagiarism must have been immediately detected.
The person to whom Gil
Blas applies for a situation at Valladolid, is called in
the French text _Londona_. The real word is Londoño,
the name of a village near Orduña, in Biscay. _Inesile_ is the
name given to the niece of Jacinta.A few stragglers held their ground ten minutes longer,
but when the girl began to wring the true inwardness out
of the "cries of the wounded," they struck their colors
and retired in a kind of panic.

There never was a completer victory; I was the only
non-combatant left on the field.  I would not have
deserted my countrywoman anyhow, but indeed I had no
desires in that direction.  None of us like mediocrity,
but we all reverence perfection.  This girl's music
was perfection in its way; it was the worst music that
had ever been achieved on our planet by a mere human being.

I moved up close, and never lost a strain.  When she
got through, I asked her to play it again.  She did it
with a pleased alacrity and a heightened enthusiasm.
She made it ALL discords, this time.  She got an amount
of anguish into the cries of the wounded that shed a new
light on human suffering.  She was on the war-path all
the evening.  All the time, crowds of people gathered on
the porches and pressed their noses against the windows
to look and marvel, but the bravest never ventured in.
The bride went off satisfied and happy with her young fellow,
when her appetite was finally gorged, and the tourists
swarmed in again.

What a change has come over Switzerland, and in fact
all Europe, during this century! Seventy or eighty years
ago Napoleon was the only man in Europe who could really
be called a traveler; he was the only man who had devoted
his attention to it and taken a powerful interest in it;
he was the only man who had traveled extensively;
but now everybody goes everywhere; and Switzerland,
and many other regions which were unvisited and unknown
remotenesses a hundred years ago, are in our days
a buzzing hive of restless strangers every summer.
But I digress.

In the morning, when we looked out of our windows,
we saw a wonderful sight.  Across the valley,
and apparently quite neighborly and close at hand,
the giant form of the Jungfrau rose cold and white into
the clear sky, beyond a gateway in the nearer highlands.
It reminded me, somehow, of one of those colossal billows
which swells suddenly up beside one's ship, at sea,
sometimes, with its crest and shoulders snowy white, and the
rest of its noble proportions streaked downward with creamy foam.


I took out my sketch-book and made a little picture
of the Jungfrau, merely to get the shape.  [Figure 9]

I do not regard this as one of my finished works, in fact I
do not rank it among my Works at all; it is only a study;
it is hardly more than what one might call a sketch.
Other artists have done me the grace to admire it; but I
am severe in my judgments of my own pictures, and this
one does not move me.

It was hard to believe that that lofty wooded rampart on
the left which so overtops the Jungfrau was not actually
the higher of the two, but it was not, of course.
It is only two or three thousand feet high, and of course
has no snow upon it in summer, whereas the Jungfrau is not
much shorter of fourteen thousand feet high and therefore
that lowest verge of snow on her side, which seems nearly
down to the valley level, is really about seven thousand feet
higher up in the air than the summit of that wooded rampart.
It is the distance that makes the deception.  The wooded
height is but four or five miles removed from us,
but the Jungfrau is four or five times that distance away.

Walking down the street of shops, in the fore-noon, I
was attracted by a large picture, carved, frame and all,
from a single block of chocolate-colored wood.
There are people who know everything.  Some of these had
told us that continental shopkeepers always raise their
prices on English and Americans.  Many people had told
us it was expensive to buy things through a courier,
whereas I had supposed it was just the reverse.
When I saw this picture, I conjectured that it was worth
more than the friend I proposed to buy it for would
like to pay, but still it was worth while to inquire;
so I told the courier to step in and ask the price, as if he
wanted it for himself; I told him not to speak in English,
and above all not to reveal the fact that he was a courier.
Then I moved on a few yards, and waited.

The courier came presently and reported the price.
I said to myself, "It is a hundred francs too much,"
and so dismissed the matter from my mind.  But in
the afternoon I was passing that place with Harris,
and the picture attracted me again.  We stepped in,
to see how much higher broken German would raise the price.
The shopwoman named a figure just a hundred francs lower
than the courier had named.  This was a pleasant surprise.
I said I would take it.  After I had given directions as to
where it was to be shipped, the shopwoman said, appealingly:

"If you please, do not let your courier know you bought it."

This was an unexpected remark.  I said:

"What makes you think I have a courier?"

"Ah, that is very simple; he told me himself."

"He was very thoughtful.  But tell me--why did you charge
him more than you are charging me?"

"That is very simple, also: I do not have to pay you
a percentage."

"Oh, I begin to see.  You would have had to pay the courier
a percentage."

"Undoubtedly. The courier always has his percentage.
In this case it would have been a hundred francs."

"Then the tradesman does not pay a part of it
--the purchaser pays all of it?"

{F}
These terms, WIGHT and ELF, are presented by Dr Grimm as
being, after a rough way, synonymous; and you have above seen
another Germanic writer--a native of Warwickshire--take ELF for
equivalent, or nearly so, with FAIRY.

Of his many-natured Teutonic _wights and elves_, then,
but with glances darted around, northwards and westwards, and
southwards and eastwards, Dr Grimm begins with speaking thus:--

"From the _deified_ and _half-divine_ natures [investigated by this
author in several of his antecedent chapters] _a whole order of
other beings_ is especially herein distinguished, that whilst the
former either proceed of mankind, or seek human intercourse, these
form a segregated society--one might say, a peculiar kingdom of
their own--and are only, by accident or the pressure of circumstances,
moved to converse with men.

Something superhuman, approximating them to the gods, is mingled
up in them: they possess power to help and to hurt man.

They are however, at the same time, afraid of him,
because they are not his bodily match.

They appear either far below the human stature, or misshapen.

Almost all of them enjoy the faculty of rendering themselves
invisible."
You turn away your head, exclaiming that the weighty words of our
puissant teacher are, for your proficiency, somewhat bewildering,
and for your exigency by much too--TEUTONIC.

Have a care!

However, "Westward Hoe!" Put the old Rhine between the master
of living mythologists and yourself, and listen to Baron
Walckenaer unlocking the fountains of the fairy belief, and showing
how it streams, primarily through France, and secondarily through
all remaining Western Europe.

"If there is a specifically characterized superstition, it is
that which regards _the fairies_: those _female genii_,{G}
most frequently _without name_, without descent, without kin,
who are incessantly busied subverting the order of nature,
for the weal or the woe of mortals whom they love and
favour _without a motive_, or, as causelessly, hate and persecute."

{H}
What, _female_ only? Where are Oberon and Puck? _Without
a name?_ Where Titania?--Mab? _Without a motive?_
Where the godmother of the sweet-faced and sweet-hearted
Cinderella? Partial, and without a distinct type in
your own recollections, you guessingly pronounce the
characterization of the perpetual secretary too----_French_.
Driven back, disappointed on all sides, you turn
round upon your difficulties, and manfully project beating
out _a definition of your own_; to which end, glancing
your eye back affectionately, and now, needle-like,
northwards across the Channel, you "at one slight
bound" once more find yourself at your own fireside,
and on your table _The Midsummer Night's Dream_, open
at the second scene of the first act.

Inquirer whosoever! A problem lies large before
us--complicated, abstruse even, yet--suitably to the
subject--a delicate one! To hunt down an elusive word,
and a more elusive notion! It is to find a set of
determinings which, laid together, shall form a circle
fitted to confine that inconfinable spirit--a Fairy;
or, if you better like plain English, to find the terms needed for
signifying, describing, expounding the Thought which, lurking as
at the bottom of your mind, under a crowd of thoughts, rises up,
in all circumstances, to meet and answer the name----a fairy; the
Thought, which when all accidental and unessential attributes liable
to be attracted to the fairy essence have been stripped away,
remains; the _substrate_, absolute, essential, _generic_ notion,
therefore--a fairy; that Thought, which whencesoever acquired, and
held howsoever, enables you to deal to your satisfaction with
proposed fairies, acknowledging THIS one frankly;--THIS, but for a
half-sister; shutting the door upon ANOTHER.

You may distinguish these terms at your pleasure,
by sundry denominations: for example, you may call
them Elements of the notion--a fairy--or circumscriptive
Lines of such a notion, or indispensable Fairy-marks,
or elfin Criteria, or by any other name which you may
happen to like as well or better; but when found, call them
as you will, they must reveal in essence, the thing
which we look for--the answer to the question with
which we first started, and to which we have as yet
found no satisfactory solution.

They are in a condition to kill somebody by this time.
Meantime, you have been sitting in your car, smoking,
and observing all this misery in the extremest comfort.

On the journey the guard is polite and watchful--won't
allow anybody to get into your compartment--tells them
you are just recovering from the small-pox and do not
like to be disturbed.  For the courier has made everything
right with the guard.  The stars of the upper sky shot
down like silver spangles, and hung suspended in the
luminous hair of the fairies, giving them the appearance
of carrying dancing lights on their heads. A loud,
melodious, strain of rejoicing thrilled through the vast
room. The radiant structure heaved and sank. Overhead a
verdurous canopy of leaves vaulted itself; the elves,
entwining arms and legs, flew in a lightning whirl
around the high priestess and the dazzled Maud, who,
unawares, had come close upon the lovely fairy.
At custom-houses the multitude file tediously through,
hot and irritated, and look on while the officers
burrow into the trunks and make a mess of everything;
but you hand your keys to the courier and sit still.
If any one assert that this is to underrate Le Sage, and
that he is entitled to the credit of an inventor, let him cite any
single work written by Le Sage, except _Gil Blas_, in proof of his
assertion. Of course _Gil Blas_ is out of the question.The multitude
spend half an hour verifying their baggage and getting
it transferred to the omnibuses; but the courier puts
you into a vehicle without a moment's loss of time,
and when you reach your hotel you find your rooms have been
secured two or three days in advance, everything is ready,
you can go at once to bed.  Some of those other people will
have to drift around to two or three hotels, in the rain,
before they find accommodations.

I have not set down half of the virtues that are
vested in a good courier, but I think I have set down
a sufficiency of them to show that an irritable man
who can afford one and does not employ him is not a
wise economist.  If you hinder me from keeping my word
with this miraculous being--and the luck that
is decreed me is meanwhile scattered to all the four
winds--you may settle it with the spirit and face his
anger; for I wash my hands in innocency.'
"Maud began to cry, kissed the shrunken leaf, and hid
it again in her bosom. Albert was not at ease.

He was annoyed at the untoward encounter, a touch of jealousy
disquieted and distressed his soul, and yet he could not say
that the girl was in the wrong.Verey.  He spoke
eight languages, and seemed to be equally at home in all
of them; he was shrewd, prompt, posted, and punctual;
he was fertile in resources, and singularly gifted in
the matter of overcoming difficulties; he not only knew
how to do everything in his line, but he knew the best ways
and the quickest; he was handy with children and invalids;
all his employer needed to do was to take life easy
and leave everything to the courier.  His address is,
care of Messrs.  Gay & Son, Strand, London; he was formerly
a conductor of Gay's tourist parties.  Excellent couriers
are somewhat rare; if the reader is about to travel,
he will find it to his advantage to make a note of this one.


Now, the lower
classes of Spain perpetually fall into this error of calling Pilate
a Jew; and this is a trait which could hardly have occurred to a
foreign writer, however well acquainted with Spain, much less to a
writer who had never set his foot in that country.

Here we cannot help observing, that the whole scene from
which this passage is taken is eminently Spanish. In
Spain only was such a proceeding possible as the scheme
for deprecating Simon, executed by Lucinda and Raphael.

I had made a tacit
contract with myself; it was my duty to abide by it.
I was willing to make boat trips for pleasure, but I could
not conscientiously make them in the way of business.