The Duke of Fife has borne testimony that Mr. Rhodes deceived him.  That
is also what Mr. Rhodes did with the Reformers.  He got them into
trouble, and then stayed out himself.  A judicious man.  He has always
been that.  As to this there was a moment of doubt, once.  It was when he
was out on his last pirating expedition in the Matabele country.  The
cable shouted out that he had gone unarmed, to visit a party of hostile
chiefs.  It was true, too; and this dare-devil thing came near fetching
another indiscretion out of the poet laureate.  It would have been too
bad, for when the facts were all in, it turned out that there was a lady
along, too, and she also was unarmed.

In the opinion of many people Mr. Rhodes is South Africa; others think he
is only a large part of it.  These latter consider that South Africa
consists of Table Mountain, the diamond mines, the Johannesburg gold
fields, and Cecil Rhodes.  The gold fields are wonderful in every way.
In seven or eight years they built up, in a desert, a city of a hundred
thousand inhabitants, counting white and black together; and not the
ordinary mining city of wooden shanties, but a city made out of lasting
material.  Nowhere in the world is there such a concentration of rich
mines as at Johannesburg.  Mr. Oh Clifford, boyst'rous Clifford, thou
hast slaine The flowre of Europe, for his Cheualrie, And trecherously
hast thou vanquisht him, For hand to hand he would haue vanquisht thee.
Now my Soules Pallace is become a Prison:
Ah, would she breake from hence, that this my body Might in the ground
be closed vp in rest:
For neuer henceforth shall I ioy againe:
Neuer, oh neuer shall I see more ioy 
Rich.

I cannot weepe: for all my bodies moysture Scarse serues to quench my
Furnace-burning hart:
Nor can my tongue vnloade my hearts great burthen, For selfe-same winde
that I should speake withall, Is kindling coales that fires all my
brest, And burnes me vp with flames, that tears would quench.
To weepe, is to make lesse the depth of greefe:
Teares then for Babes; Blowes, and Reuenge for mee.

Richard, I beare thy name, Ile venge thy death, Or dye renowned by attempting
it
Ed. His name that valiant Duke hath left with thee:
His Dukedome, and his Chaire with me is left
Rich. Nay, if thou be that Princely Eagles Bird, Shew thy descent
by gazing 'gainst the Sunne:
For Chaire and Dukedome, Throne and Kingdome say, Either that is thine,
or else thou wer't not his.

March. Enter Warwicke, Marquesse Mountacute, and their Army.

Warwick. How now faire Lords? What faire? What newes abroad?
Rich. Great Lord of Warwicke, if we should recompt Our balefull
newes, and at each words deliuerance Stab Poniards in our flesh,
till all were told, The words would adde more anguish then the
wounds.
O valiant Lord, the Duke of Yorke is slaine
Edw. O Warwicke, Warwicke, that Plantagenet Which held thee deerely,
as his Soules Redemption, Is by the sterne Lord Clifford done to
death 
War. Ten dayes ago, I drown'd these newes in teares.I had been a gold miner myself, in my day, and
knew substantially everything that those people knew about it, except how
to make money at it.  But I learned a good deal about the Boers there,
and that was a fresh subject.  What I heard there was afterwards repeated
to me in other parts of South Africa.  Summed up--according to the
information thus gained--this is the Boer:

He is deeply religious, profoundly ignorant, dull, obstinate, bigoted,
uncleanly in his habits, hospitable, honest in his dealings with the
whites, a hard master to his black servant, lazy, a good shot, good
horseman, addicted to the chase, a lover of political independence, a
good husband and father, not fond of herding together in towns, but
liking the seclusion and remoteness and solitude and empty vastness and
silence of the veldt; a man of a mighty appetite, and not delicate about
what he appeases it with--well-satisfied with pork and Indian corn and
biltong, requiring only that the quantity shall not be stinted; willing
to ride a long journey to take a hand in a rude all-night dance
interspersed with vigorous feeding and boisterous jollity, but ready to
ride twice as far for a prayer-meeting; proud of his Dutch and Huguenot
origin and its religious and military history; proud of his race's
achievements in South Africa, its bold plunges into hostile and uncharted
deserts in search of free solitudes unvexed by the pestering and detested
English, also its victories over the natives and the British; proudest of
all, of the direct and effusive personal interest which the Deity has
always taken in its affairs.  He cannot read, he cannot write; he has one
or two newspapers, but he is, apparently, not aware of it; until latterly
he had no schools, and taught his children nothing, news is a term which
has no meaning to him, and the thing itself he cares nothing about.  He
hates to be taxed and resents it.  He has stood stock still in South
Africa for two centuries and a half, and would like to stand still till
the end of time, for he has no sympathy with Uitlander notions of
progress.  He is hungry to be rich, for he is human; but his preference
has been for riches in cattle, not in fine clothes and fine houses and
gold and diamonds.  The gold and the diamonds have brought the godless
stranger within his gates, also contamination and broken repose, and he
wishes that they had never been discovered.

I think that the bulk of those details can be found in Olive Schreiner's
books, and she would not be accused of sketching the Boer's portrait with
an unfair hand.

Now what would you expect from that unpromising material?  What ought you
to expect from it?  Laws inimical to religious liberty? Yes.  Laws
denying, representation and suffrage to the intruder? Yes.  Laws
unfriendly to educational institutions? Yes.  Laws obstructive of gold
production? Yes.  Discouragement of railway expansion? Yes.  Laws heavily
taxing the intruder and overlooking the Boer? Yes.

The Uitlander seems to have expected something very different from all
that.  I do not know why.  Nothing different from it was rationally to be
expected.  A round man cannot be expected to fit a square hole right
away.  He must have time to modify his shape.  The modification had begun
in a detail or two, before the Raid, and was making some progress.  It
has made further progress since.  There are wise men in the Boer
government, and that accounts for the modification; the modification of
the Boer mass has probably not begun yet.  If the heads of the Boer
government had not been wise men they would have hanged Jameson, and thus
turned a very commonplace pirate into a holy martyr.  But even their
wisdom has its limits, and they will hang Mr. Rhodes if they ever catch
him.  Feare not that, my Lord
Warw. Then gentle Clarence, welcome vnto Warwicke, And welcome Somerset:
I hold it cowardize, To rest mistrustfull, where a Noble Heart Hath
pawn'd an open Hand, in signe of Loue; Else might I thinke, that Clarence,
Edwards Brother, Were but a fained friend to our proceedings:
But welcome sweet Clarence, my Daughter shall be thine.

And now, what rests? but in Nights Couerture, Thy Brother being carelessely
encamp'd, His Souldiors lurking in the Towne about, And but attended by
a simple Guard, Wee may surprize and take him at our pleasure, Our Scouts
haue found the aduenture very easie:
That as Vlysses, and stout Diomede, With sleight and manhood
stole to Rhesus Tents, And brought from thence the Thracian fatall Steeds;
So wee, well couer'd with the Nights black Mantle, At vnawares may beat
downe Edwards Guard, And seize himselfe: I say not, slaughter him, For
I intend but onely to surprize him.

You that will follow me to this attempt, Applaud the Name of Henry,
with your Leader.

They all cry, Henry.

Why then, let's on our way in silent sort, For Warwicke and his friends,
God and Saint George.

Exeunt.

Enter three Watchmen to guard the Kings Tent.

1.Watch. Come on my Masters, each man take his stand, The King by this,
is set him downe to sleepe 
2.Watch. What, will he not to Bed?
1.Watch. Why, no: for he hath made a solemne Vow, Neuer to lye and
take his naturall Rest, Till Warwicke, or himselfe, be quite supprest

2.Watch. To morrow then belike shall be the day, If Warwicke be so
neere as men report
3.Watch. But say, I pray, what Noble man is that, That with the
King here resteth in his Tent?
1.Watch. 'Tis the Lord Hastings, the Kings chiefest friend
3.Watch. O, is it so?Some have
fallen so low that they sell their daughters to the blacks."

Under date of another South African town I find the note which is
creditable to the Boers:

"Dr. X. told me that in the Kafir war 1,500 Kafirs took refuge in a great
cave in the mountains about 90 miles north of Johannesburg, and the Boers
blocked up the entrance and smoked them to death.  Dr. X. has been in
there and seen the great array of bleached skeletons--one a woman with
the skeleton of a child hugged to her breast."

The great bulk of the savages must go.  The white man wants their lands,
and all must go excepting such percentage of them as he will need to do
his work for him upon terms to be determined by himself.  Since history
has removed the element of guesswork from this matter and made it
certainty, the humanest way of diminishing the black population should be
adopted, not the old cruel ways of the past.  Mr. Rhodes and his gang
have been following the old ways.--They are chartered to rob and slay,
and they lawfully do it, but not in a compassionate and Christian spirit.
They rob the Mashonas and the Matabeles of a portion of their territories
in the hallowed old style of "purchase!" for a song, and then they force
a quarrel and take the rest by the strong hand.  They rob the natives of
their cattle under the pretext that all the cattle in the country
belonged to the king whom they have tricked and assassinated.  They issue
"regulations" requiring the incensed and harassed natives to work for the
white settlers, and neglect their own affairs to do it.  This is slavery,
and is several times worse than was the American slavery which used to
pain England so much; for when this Rhodesian slave is sick,
super-annuated, or otherwise disabled, he must support himself
or starve--his master is under no obligation to support him.

The reduction of the population by Rhodesian methods to the desired limit
is a return to the old-time slow-misery and lingering-death system of a
discredited time and a crude "civilization."  We humanely reduce an
overplus of dogs by swift chloroform; the Boer humanely reduced an
overplus of blacks by swift suffocation; the nameless but right-hearted
Australian pioneer humanely reduced his overplus of aboriginal neighbors
by a sweetened swift death concealed in a poisoned pudding.  All these
are admirable, and worthy of praise; you and I would rather suffer either
of these deaths thirty times over in thirty successive days than linger
out one of the Rhodesian twenty-year deaths, with its daily burden of
insult, humiliation, and forced labor for a man whose entire race the
victim hates.  Rhodesia is a happy name for that land of piracy and
pillage, and puts the right stain upon it.

Several long journeys--gave us experience of the Cape Colony railways;
easy-riding, fine cars; all the conveniences; thorough cleanliness;
comfortable beds furnished for the night trains.  It was in the first
days of June, and winter; the daytime was pleasant, the nighttime nice
and cold.  Spinning along all day in the cars it was ecstasy to breathe
the bracing air and gaze out over the vast brown solitudes of the velvet
plains, soft and lovely near by, still softer and lovelier further away,
softest and loveliest of all in the remote distances, where dim
island-hills seemed afloat, as in a sea--a sea made of dream-stuff and
flushed with colors faint and rich; and dear me, the depth of the sky,
and the beauty of the strange new cloud-forms, and the glory of the
sunshine, the lavishness, the wastefulness of it!  This bagatelle,
for which, by the by, Mr. Prior has got his greatest reputation,
was a tale told in all the old Italian collections of jests, and
borrowed from thence by Fontaine.

It had been translated once or twice before into English, yet was never
regarded till it fell into the hands of Mr. Prior. A strong instance
how everything is improved in the hands of a man of genius.

BAUCIS AND PHILEMON.

This poem [by Swift] is very fine; and though in the same strain
with the preceding [Prior's 'Ladle'] is yet superior.

TO THE EARL OF WARWICK, ON THE DEATH OF MR. ADDISON.

This elegy (by Mr. Ticknell) is one of the finest in our language; there
is so little new that can be said upon the death of a friend, after the
complaints of Ovid and the Latin Italians, in this way, that one is
surprised to see so much novelty in this to strike us, and so much
interest to affect.

COLIN AND LUCY.

Through all Tickell's works there is a strain of ballad-thinking, if I
may so express it; and, in this professed ballad, he seems to have
surpassed himself. It is, perhaps, the best in our language in this
way.
THE TEARS OF SCOTLAND. WRITTEN IN THE YEAR MDCCXLVI.
This ode, by Dr. Smollett, does rather more honour to the author's
feelings than his taste. The mechanical part, with regard to numbers
and language, is not so perfect as so short a work as this requires;
but the pathetic it contains, particularly in the last stanza but
one, is exquisitely fine.

ON THE DEATH OF THE LORD PROTECTOR.
Our poetry was not quite harmonized in Waller's time; so that this,
which would be now looked upon as a slovenly sort of versification,
was, with respect to the times in which it was written, almost a
prodigy of harmony.I seemed among old, old friends;
friends of fifty years, and I stopped and cordially greeted them.  They
broke into a good-fellowship laugh, flashing their white teeth upon me,
and all answered at once.  I did not understand a word they said.  I was
astonished; I was not dreaming that they would answer in anything but
American.

The voices, too, of the African women, were familiar to me sweet and
musical, just like those of the slave women of my early days.  I followed
a couple of them all over the Orange Free State--no, over its capital
--Bloemfontein, to hear their liquid voices and the happy ripple of their
laughter.  Their language was a large improvement upon American.  Also
upon the Zulu.  It had no Zulu clicks in it; and it seemed to have no
angles or corners, no roughness, no vile s's or other hissing sounds, but
was very, very mellow and rounded and flowing.

In moving about the country in the trains, I had opportunity to see a
good many Boers of the veldt.  One day at a village station a hundred of
them got out of the third-class cars to feed.

Their clothes were very interesting.  For ugliness of shapes, and for
miracles of ugly colors inharmoniously associated, they were a record.
The effect was nearly as exciting and interesting as that produced by the
brilliant and beautiful clothes and perfect taste always on view at the
Indian railway stations.  One man had corduroy trousers of a faded
chewing gum tint.  And they were new--showing that this tint did not come
by calamity, but was intentional; the very ugliest color I have ever
seen.  A gaunt, shackly country lout six feet high, in battered gray
slouched hat with wide brim, and old resin-colored breeches, had on a
hideous brand-new woolen coat which was imitation tiger skin wavy broad
stripes of dazzling yellow and deep brown.  I thought he ought to be
hanged, and asked the station-master if it could be arranged.  He said
no; and not only that, but said it rudely; said it with a quite
unnecessary show of feeling.  Then he muttered something about my being a
jackass, and walked away and pointed me out to people, and did everything
he could to turn public sentiment against me.  It is what one gets for
trying to do good.

In the train that day a passenger told me some more about Boer life out
in the lonely veldt.  He said the Boer gets up early and sets his
"niggers" at their tasks (pasturing the cattle, and watching them); eats,
smokes, drowses, sleeps; toward evening superintends the milking, etc.;
eats, smokes, drowses; goes to bed at early candlelight in the fragrant
clothes he (and she) have worn all day and every week-day for years.  I
remember that last detail, in Olive Schreiner's "Story of an African
Farm."  And the passenger told me that the Boers were justly noted for
their hospitality.  He told me a story about it.  He said that his grace
the Bishop of a certain See was once making a business-progress through
the tavernless veldt, and one night he stopped with a Boer; after supper
was shown to bed; he undressed, weary and worn out, and was soon sound
asleep; in the night he woke up feeling crowded and suffocated, and found
the old Boer and his fat wife in bed with him, one on each side, with all
their clothes on, and snoring.  COOPER'S HILL.

This poem, by Denham, though it may have been exceeded by later attempts
in description, yet deserves the highest applause, as it far
surpasses all that went before it: the concluding part, though a
little too much crowded, is very masterly.

ELOISA TO ABELARD.

The harmony of numbers in this poem is very fine. It is rather drawn out
to too tedious a length, although the passions vary with great
judgement. It may be considered as superior to anything in the epistolary
way; and the many translations which have been made of it into
the modern languages, are in some measure a proof of this.

AN EPISTLE FROM MR. PHILIPS* TO THE EARL OF DORSET.

The opening of this poem is incomparably fine. The latter part is tedious
and trifling.

[footnote] *Ambrose Philips.

A LETTER FROM ITALY, TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE CHARLES LORD HALIFAX.
In the Year MDCCI.
Few poems have done more honour to English genius than this.
There is in it a strain of political thinking that was, at that
time, new in our poetry. Had the harmony of this been equal to that
of Pope's versification, it would be incontestably the finest poem
in our language; but there is a dryness in the numbers which greatly
lessens the pleasure excited both by the poet's judgement and
imagination.*
[footnote] *See introductory note to 'The Traveller', p.
162.
ALEXANDER'S FEAST; OR, THE POWER OF MUSIC. AN ODE, IN HONOUR OF ST.
CECILIA'S DAY.

This ode [by Mr.CHAPTER LXIX.

The very ink with which all history is written is merely fluid prejudice.
                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilsons's New Calendar.

There isn't a Parallel of Latitude but thinks it would have been the
Equator if it had had its rights.
                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

Next to Mr. Rhodes, to me the most interesting convulsion of nature in
South Africa was the diamond-crater.  The Rand gold fields are a
stupendous marvel, and they make all other gold fields small, but I was
not a stranger to gold-mining; the veldt was a noble thing to see, but it
was only another and lovelier variety of our Great Plains; the natives
were very far from being uninteresting, but they were not new; and as for
the towns, I could find my way without a guide through the most of them
because I had learned the streets, under other names, in towns just like
them in other lands; but the diamond mine was a wholly fresh thing, a
splendid and absorbing novelty.  Very few people in the world have seen
the diamond in its home.  It has but three or four homes in the world,
whereas gold has a million.  My email address for right now are
haradda@aol.com and davidr@inconnect.com. I hope that you enjoy this.

David Reed

The third Part of Henry the Sixt
with the death of the Duke of Yorke
Actus Primus. Scoena Prima.

Alarum.When
everything is taken into consideration, the wonder is that they were not
discovered five thousand years ago and made familiar to the African world
for the rest of time.  For this reason the first diamonds were found on
the surface of the ground.  They were smooth and limpid, and in the
sunlight they vomited fire.  They were the very things which an African
savage of any era would value above every other thing in the world
excepting a glass bead.  For two or three centuries we have been buying
his lands, his cattle, his neighbor, and any other thing he had for sale,
for glass beads and so it is strange that he was indifferent to the
diamonds--for he must have pickets them up many and many a time.  It
would not occur to him to try to sell them to whites, of course, since
the whites already had plenty of glass beads, and more fashionably
shaped, too, than these; but one would think that the poorer sort of
black, who could not afford real glass, would have been humbly content to
decorate himself with the imitation, and that presently the white trader
would notice the things, and dimly suspect, and carry some of them home,
and find out what they were, and at once empty a multitude of
fortune-hunters into Africa.  'Sir,' said Boswell to Johnson, 'he
'disputed' his passage through Europe.' When on the 1st February, 1756,
he landed at Dover, it was with empty pockets.

But he had sent home to his brother in Ireland his first rough sketch for
the poem of 'The Traveller'.

He was now seven-and-twenty. He had seen and suffered much, but he was
to have further trials before drifting definitely into literature.
Between Dover and London, it has been surmised, he made a tentative
appearance as a strolling player. His next ascertained part was
that of an apothecary's assistant on Fish Street Hill. From this, with the
opportune aid of an Edinburgh friend, he proceeded--to use an
eighteenth-century phrase--a poor physician in the Bankside,
Southwark, where least of all, perhaps, was London's fabled pavement
to be found.--[handwritten note: "From the Greek meaning 'pawned it.'" M.T.]--I know
these particulars to be correct.

The news flew around, and the South African diamond-boom began.  The
original traveler--the dishonest one--now remembered that he had once
seen a Boer teamster chocking his wagon-wheel on a steep grade with a
diamond as large as a football, and he laid aside his occupations and
started out to hunt for it, but not with the intention of cheating
anybody out of $125 with it, for he had reformed.

