Constantine's eyes lingered on the Prince's face. The utterances
attracted him. The manner was so artfully reverential as not to leave a
suspicion of the guile behind it. Going down great galleries, every one
has had his attention suddenly arrested; he pauses, looks, and looks
again, then wakes to find the attraction was not a picture, but only a
flash within his own mind. So, with the guest before him, the Emperor
was thinking of the man rather than seeing him--thinking of him with
curiosity fully awakened, and a desire to know him better. And had he
followed up the desire, he would have found its source in the idea that
India was a region in which reflection and psychological experiment had
been exhausted--where if one appeared with a thought it turned old ere
it could be explained--where wisdom had fructified until there was no
knowledge more--where the teaching capacity was all there was remaining.
That is to say, in the day of the last Byzantine Emperor, centuries ago,
humanity in India was, as now, a clock stopped, but stopped in the act
of striking, leaving a glory in the air imaginable like the continuing
sound of hushed cathedral bells.

has in it certain artless graces, by which she may come into comparison
with the greatest beauty of poetry perfected by art: as we see in
our Gascon villanels and the songs that are brought us from nations that
have no knowledge of any manner of science, nor so much as the use of
writing.

The middle sort of poesy betwixt these two is despised, of no value,
honour, or esteem.

But seeing that the path once laid open to the fancy, I have found, as it
commonly falls out, that what we have taken for a difficult
exercise and a rare subject, prove to be nothing so, and that after
the invention is once warm, it finds out an infinite number of
parallel examples.

I shall only add this one--that, were these Essays of mine considerable
enough to deserve a critical judgment, it might then, I think, fall
out that they would not much take with common and vulgar capacities,
nor be very acceptable to the singular and excellent sort of men;
the first would not understand them enough, and the last too much;
and so they may hover in the middle region.

CHAPTER LV

OF SMELLS
It has been reported of some, as of Alexander the Great, that their sweat
exhaled an odoriferous smell, occasioned by some rare and extraordinary
constitution, of which Plutarch and others have been inquisitive
into the cause.

But the ordinary constitution of human bodies is quite otherwise, and
their best and chiefest excellency is to be exempt from smell.
"Indeed, Your Majesty, indeed I have need of good countenance. The
question put me has lured more men to bloody graves than fire, sword and
wave together. And then why I believe as I believe demands time in
excess of what we have; and I am the bolder in this because in limiting
me Your Majesty limits yourself. So I will now no more than define my
Faith. But first, it does not follow from my disclaimer that I can only
be a Jew or a Christian; for as air is a vehicle for a multitude of
subtleties in light, faith in like manner accommodates a multitude of
opinions."

While speaking, the Prince's voice gradually gained strength; his color
returned, and his eyes enlarged and shone with strange light. Now his
right hand arose, the fingers all closed except the first one, and it
was long and thin, and he waved it overhead, like a conjuring wand. If
the concourse had been unwilling to hear him, they could not have turned
away.

"I am not a Hindoo, my Lord; because I cannot believe men can make their
own gods."

The Father Confessor to the Emperor, at the left of the dais in a stole
of gold and crimson cloth, smiled broadly.

"I am not a Buddhist," the Prince continued; "because I cannot believe
the soul goes to nothingness after death."

The Father Confessor clapped his hands.

"I am not a Confucian; because I cannot reduce religion to philosophy or
elevate philosophy into religion."

The blood of the audience began to warm.

"I am not a Jew; because I believe God loves all peoples alike, or if he
makes distinctions, it is for righteousness' sake."

Here the chamber rang with clapping.

"I am not an Islamite; because when I raise my eyes to Heaven, I cannot
tolerate sight of a man standing between me and God--no, my Lord, not
though he be a Prophet."

The hit was palpable, and from hate of the old enemy, the whole
assemblage broke into an uproar of acclamation. Only the Emperor kept
his gravity. Leaning heavily on the golden cone at the right of his
chair, his chin depressed, his eyes staring, scarcely breathing, he
waited, knowing, that having gone so far, there was before the speaker
an unavoidable climax; and seeing it in his face, and coming, he
presently aroused, and motioned for silence.

"I am not"--

The Prince stopped, but when the hush was deepest went on--"I am not a
Christian; because--because I believe--God is God."

The Father Confessor's hands were ready to clap, but they stayed so; the
same spell took hold of the bystanders, except that they looked at the
Emperor, and he alone seemed to comprehend the concluding phrase. He
settled back easily in his seat, saying, "Thy Faith then is--"

"God!"

The monosyllable was the Prince's.

And with clear sight of the many things reprobated--Images, Saints, the
Canonized, even the worship of Christ and the Holy Mother--with clear
sight also of the wisdom which in that presence bade the guest stop with
the mighty name--at the same time more curious than ever to hear in full
discourse the man who could reduce religion to a single word and leave
it comprehensible, Constantine drew a breath of relief, and said,
smiling, "Of a surety, O Prince, there was never a Faith which, with
such appearance of simplicity in definition, is capable of such infinity
of meaning. I am full of questions; and these listening, my lords of the
court, are doubtless in a similar mood. What sayest thou, O my most
orthodox Confessor?" The Father bowed until the hem of his blazing stole
overlaid the floor.

"Your Majesty, we too are believers in God; but we also believe in much
beside; so, if but for comparison of creeds, which is never unprofitable
while in good nature, I should like to hear the noble and fair speaking
guest further."

"And you, my Lords?"

The throng around answered, "Yes, yes!"

"We will have it so then. Look, good Logothete, for the nearest day
unoccupied."

I confide to you something (mysteriously)--a thought!--when I
stood at the altar with Fiesco,--when his hand lay in mine,--a
thought, too daring for woman, rushed across me.
"This Fiesco, whose hand now lies in thine--thy Fiesco"--but hush!

-Dost hear, Prince?"

The latter lowered his face the better to conceal his pleasure.

"All days are alike to me," he answered.

"In this our palace, then--two weeks from to-morrow at the hour of noon.
And now"--the rustle and general movement of the courtiers was instantly
stayed--"and now, Prince, didst thou not speak of exercising the
functions of a king at home? Thy capital must be in India, but where,
pray? And how callest thou thyself? And why is this city so fortunate as
to have attracted thy wandering feet? It is not every king so his own
master as to turn traveller, and go about making study of the world;
although, I admit, it would be better could every king do so."

These questions were rapidly put, but as the Prince was prepared for
them, he responded pleasantly:

