"There's manny a man," he said, "and manny and manny a lady, too, born in
the purple, that'd be glad of a dhrink of this cordial from the cellar of
the bishop.

"Alpha, beta, gamma, delta is the code, and with the word delta," he
continued, "dhrink every drop of it, as if it was the last thing you were
dhrinking on earth; as if the Lord stooped down to give ye a cup of
blessing from His great flagon of eternal happiness.  Ye've got two kind
hearts, but there's manny a day of throuble will come between ye and the
end; and yet the end'll be right, God love ye!  Now-alpha, beta, gamma,
delta!"

With a merry laugh Dyck Calhoun turned up his cup and drained the liquid
to the last drop.  With a laugh not quite so merry, Sheila raised her mug
and slowly drained the green happiness away.

"Isn't it good--isn't it like the love of God?" asked the old man.
"Ain't I glad I had it for ye?  Why I said I hadn't annything for ye to
dhrink or eat, Lord only knows.  There's nothing to eat, and there's only
this to dhrink, and I hide it away under the bedclothes of time, as one
might say.  Ah, ye know, it's been there for three years, and I'd almost
forgot it.  It was a little angel from heaven whispered it to me whir ye
stepped inside this house.  I dunno why I kep' the stuff.  Manny's the
time I was tempted to dhrink it myself, and manny's the time something
said to me, 'Not yet.'  The Lord be praised, for I've had out of it more
than I deserve!"

He took the mugs from their hands, and for a minute stood like some
ancient priest who had performed a noble ritual.  As Sheila looked at
him, she kept saying to herself:

"He's a spirit; he isn't a man!"

Dyck's eye met that of Sheila, and he saw with the same feeling what was
working in her heart.

"Well, we must be going," he said to Christopher Dogan.  "We must get
homeward, and we've had a good drink--the best I ever tasted.  We're
proud to pay our respects to you in your own house; and goodbye to you
till we meet again."

His hand went out to the shoulder of the peasant and rested there for a
second in friendly feeling.  Then the girl stretched out her hand also.
The old man took the two cups in one hand, and, reaching out the other,
let Sheila's fingers fall upon his own.  He slowly crooked his neck, and
kissed her fingers with that distinction mostly to be found among those
few good people who live on the highest or the lowest social levels, or
in native tents.

"Ah, please God we meet again!  and that I be let to serve you, Miss
Sheila Llyn.  I have no doubt you could do with a little help some time
or another, the same as the rest of us.  For all that's come between us
three, may it be given me, humble and poor, to help ye both that's helped
me so!"

Dyck turned to go, and as he did so a thought came to him.

"If you hadn't food and drink for us, what have you for yourself,
Christopher?" he asked.  "Have you food to eat?"

"Ah, well--well, do ye think I'm no provider?  There was no food cooked
was what I was thinking; but come and let me show you."

He took the cover off a jar standing in a corner.  "Here's good flour,
and there's water, and there's manny a wild shrub and plant on the
hillside to make soup, and what more does a man want?  With the scone
cooked and inside ye, don't ye feel as well as though ye'd had a pound of
beef or a rasher of bacon?  How terrible is the force of Nature, hurrying,
hurrying, driving us out....

"Go! Go! Remove thyself! It is my turn now!..."
Christophe, overhearing their thoughts, longed to say to them:

"Don't be in such a hurry! I am quite happy here. Please regard me still
as a living being."
He was amused by their naive impertinence.

"You may as well say straight out," he observed one day when they
had crushed him with their disdainful manner.

"You may as well say that I am a stupid old man."

"No, no, my dear old friend," said Aurora, laughing heartily. "You are
the best of men, but there are some things that you do not know."
"And that you do know, my girl? You are very wise!"
"Don't laugh at me. I know nothing much.

But Georges knows."
Christophe smiled:

"Yes. You are right, my dear. The man you love always knows."
It was much more difficult for him to tolerate their music than to put up
with their intellectual superiority. They used to try his patience
severely. The piano was given no rest when they were in his rooms.

It seemed that love had roused them to song, like the birds. But they
were by a long way not so skilled in singing.

Aurora had no illusions as to her talent, but she was quite otherwise
about her fiancé: she could see no difference between Georges's playing
and Christophe's.

Perhaps she preferred Georges's style, and Georges, in spite of his ironic
subtlety, was never far from being convinced by his sweetheart's belief
in him.
Christophe never contradicted them: maliciously he would concur in
the girl's opinion (except when, as sometimes happened, he could
bear it no longer, and would rush away, banging the doors).

With an affectionate, pitying smile he would listen to Georges playing
_Tristan_ on the piano.

The unhappy young man would conscientiously apply himself to the
transcription of the formidable pages with all the amiable sweetness
of a young girl, and a young girl's tender feeling.

Christophe used to laugh to himself.

He would never tell the boy why he laughed. He would kiss him. He loved
him as he was.

Perhaps he loved him the more for it.... Poor boy!... Oh! the vanity of
art!...

He used often to talk about "his children"--(for so he called
them)--to Emmanuel.

Emmanuel, who was fond of Georges, used jokingly to say that Christophe
ought to hand him aver to him. He had Aurora, and it was not fair. He was
grabbing everything.

Their friendship had become almost legendary in Parisian society, though
they lived apart from it. Emmanuel had grown passionately devoted
to Christophe, though his pride would not let him show it.

He covered it up with his brusque manners, and sometimes used
to be absolutely rude to Christophe. But Christophe was not deceived.
He knew how deeply attached to him Emmanuel was, and he knew the worth
of his affection. No week went by but they met two or three times. When
they were prevented by ill-health from going out, they used to write to
each other.

Their letters might have been written from places far removed from Paris.
They were less interested in external happenings than in the progress
of the mind in science and art. They lived in their ideas, pondering their
art, or beneath the chaos of facts perceiving the little undistinguished
gleam which reveals the progress of the history of the human mind.

Generally it was Christophe who visited Emmanuel. Although, since a recent
illness, he was not much better in health than his friend, he had grown
used to thinking that Emmanuel's health called for more consideration
than his own.

Christophe could not now ascend Emmanuel's six flights of stairs without
difficulty, and when he reached the top he had to wait a moment to recover
his breath. They were both incapable of taking care of themselves. In
defiance of their weak throats and their fits of despondency, they
were inveterate smokers.

That was one of the reasons why Christophe preferred that they should meet
in Emmanuel's rooms rather than in his own, for Aurora used to declare
war on his habit of smoking, and he used to hide away from her.

Sometimes they would both break out coughing in the middle of their
conversation, and then they would break off and look at each other
guiltily like schoolboys, and laugh: and sometimes one would lecture
the other while he was coughing; but as soon as he had recovered
his breath the other would vigorously protest that smoking had
nothing to do with it.
On Emmanuel's table, in a clear space among the papers, a gray cat
would sit and gravely look at the smokers with an air of reproach.he asked of a naval captain
who had evidently brought the news.

Captain Ivy nodded.

"Yes, it's a heavy blow for the French bloodsuckers.  If their ideas
creep through Europe and get hold of England, God only knows what the
end will be!  In their view, to alter everything is the only way to put
things right.  No doubt they'll invent a new way to be born before
they've finished."

"Well, that wouldn't be a bad idea," remarked Dyck.  "The present way has
its demerits."

"Yes, it throws responsibility upon the man, and gives a heap of trouble
to the woman," said Captain Ivy with a laugh; "but they'll change it all,
you'll see."

Dyck poured himself a glass of port, held it up, sniffed the aroma, and
looked through the beautiful red tinge of the wine with a happy and
critical eye.

"Well, the world could be remade in a lot of ways," he declared.  "I
shouldn't mind seeing a bit of a revolution in Ireland--but in England
first," he hastened to add.  "They're a more outcast folk than the
Irish."  His father scoffed.

"Look out, Dyck, or they'll drop you in jail if you talk like that!" he
chided, his red face growing redder, his fingers nervously feeling the
buttons on his picturesque silk waistcoat.  "There's conspiracy in
Ireland, and you never truly know if the man that serves you at your
table, or brings you your horse, or puts a spade into your ground, isn't
a traitor."

At that moment the door opened, and a servant entered the room.  In his
hand he carried a letter which, with marked excitement, he brought to
Miles Calhoun.

"Sure, he's waiting, sir," he said.

"And who's he?" asked his master, turning the letter over, as though to
find out by looking at the seal.

"Oh, a man of consequence, if we're to judge by the way he's clothed."

"Fit company, then?" his master asked, as he opened the heavily sealed
letter.

"Well, I'm not saying that, for there's no company good enough for us,"
answered the higgledy-piggledy butler, with a quirk of the mouth; "but,
as messengers go, I never seen one with more style and point."

"Well, bring him to me," said Miles Calhoun.  "Bring him to me, and I'll
form my own judgment--though I have some confidence in yours."

"You could go further and fare worse, as the Papists say about
purgatory," answered the old man with respectful familiarity.

Captain Ivy and Dyck grinned, but the head of the house seemed none too
pleased at the freedom of the old butler.

"Bring him as he is," said Miles Calhoun.  "Good God!" he added, for he
just realized that the stamp of the seal was that of the Attorney-General
of Ireland.

Then he read the letter and a flush swept over his face, making its red
almost purple.

"Eternal damnation--eternal damnation!" he declared, holding the paper
at arm's length a moment, inspecting it.  He then handed it to Dyck.
"Read that, lad.  Then pack your bag, for we start for Dublin by daylight
or before."

Dyck read the brief document and whistled softly to himself.

"Well, well, you've got to obey orders like that, I suppose," Dyck said.
"They want to question us as to the state of the country here."

"I think we can tell them something.  I wonder if they know how wide your
travel is, how many people you see; and if they know, how did they come
to know?  There's spies all over the place.  How do I know but the man
who's just left this room isn't a spy, isn't the enemy of all of us
here?"

"I'd suspect Michael Clones," remarked Dyck, "just as soon as Mulvaney."

