This eBook was produced by David Widger


                     MOSSES FROM AN OLD MANSE

                      By Nathaniel Hawthorne

                     THE INTELLIGENCE OFFICE


Grave figure, with a pair of mysterious spectacles on his nose and a
pen behind his ear, was seated at a desk in the corner of a
metropolitan office.  You seem to be an honest man, so I will trust
you to go home. I give you a month to see if either of your daughters
will come back with you and stay here, to let you go free. If neither
of them is willing, you must come alone, after bidding them good-bye
for ever, for then you will belong to me. And do not imagine that
you can hide from me, for if you fail to keep your word I
will come and fetch you!" added the Beast grimly.
The merchant accepted this proposal, though he did not really think
any of his daughters would be persuaded to come.The interior of the room was thrown into shadow, partly
by the tall edifices that rose on the opposite side of the street,
and partly by the immense show-bills of blue and crimson paper that
were expanded over each of the three windows. Undisturbed by the
tramp of feet, the rattle of wheels, the hump of voices, the shout
of the city crier, the scream of the newsboys, and other tokens of
the multitudinous life that surged along in front of the office, the
figure at the desk pored diligently over a folio volume, of ledger-
like size and aspect, He looked like the spirit of a record--the
soul of his own great volume made visible in mortal shape.

But scarcely an instant elapsed without the appearance at the door
of some individual from the busy population whose vicinity was
manifested by so much buzz, and clatter, and outcry.  Now, it was a
thriving mechanic in quest of a tenement that should come within his
moderate means of rent; now, a ruddy Irish girl from the banks of
Killarney, wandering from kitchen to kitchen of our land, while her
heart still hung in the peat-smoke of her native cottage; now, a
single gentleman looking out for economical board; and now--for this
establishment offered an epitome of worldly pursuits--it was a faded
beauty inquiring for her lost bloom; or Peter Schlemihl, for his
lost shadow; or an author of ten years' standing, for his vanished
reputation; or a moody man, for yesterday's sunshine.

At the next lifting of the latch there entered a person with his hat
awry upon his head, his clothes perversely ill-suited to his form,
his eyes staring in directions opposite to their intelligence, and a
certain odd unsuitableness pervading his whole figure.  Wherever he
might chance to be, whether in palace or cottage, church or market,
on land or sea, or even at his own fireside, he must have worn the
characteristic expression of a man out of his right place.

"This," inquired he, putting his question in the form of an
assertion,--"this is the Central Intelligence Office?"

"Even so," answered the figure at the desk, turning another leaf of
his volume; he then looked the applicant in the face and said
briefly, "Your business?"

"I want," said the latter, with tremulous earnestness, "a place!"

"A place! and of what nature?" asked the Intelligencer.  "There are
many vacant, or soon to be so, some of which will probably suit,
since they range from that of a footman up to a seat at the council-
board, or in the cabinet, or a throne, or a presidential chair."

The stranger stood pondering before the desk with an unquiet,
dissatisfied air,--a dull, vague pain of heart, expressed by a
slight contortion of the brow,--an earnestness of glance, that asked
and expected, yet continually wavered, as if distrusting. In short,
he evidently wanted, not in a physical or intellectual sense, but
with an urgent moral necessity that is the hardest of all things to
satisfy, since it knows not its own object.

"Ah, you mistake me!"  said he at length, with a gesture of nervous
impatience. " Either of the places you mention, indeed, might answer
my purpose; or, more probably, none of them.  I want my place! my
own place! my true place in the world! my proper sphere! my thing to
do, which Nature intended me to perform when she fashioned me thus
awry, and which I have vainly sought all my lifetime!  Whether it be
a footman's duty or a king's is of little consequence, so it be
naturally mine.  Can you help me here?"

"I will enter your application," answered the Intelligencer, at the
same time writing a few lines in his volume.  "But to undertake such
a business, I tell you frankly, is quite apart from the ground
covered by my official duties.  Ask for something specific, and it
may doubtless be negotiated for you, on your compliance with the
conditions.  But were I to go further, I should have the whole
population of the city upon my shoulders; since far the greater
proportion of them are, more or less, in your predicament."

The applicant sank into a fit of despondency, and passed out of the
door without again lifting his eyes; and, if he died of the
disappointment, he was probably buried in the wrong tomb, inasmuch
as the fatality of such people never deserts them, and, whether
alive or dead, they are invariably out of place.

Almost immediately another foot was heard on the threshold.  A youth
entered hastily, and threw a glance around the office to ascertain
whether the man of intelligence was alone.  "Do not get up to-morrow,"
he added, "until you see the sun and hear a golden bell ring.
Then you will find your breakfast waiting for you here, and the
horse you are to ride will be ready in the courtyard.

He will also bring you back again when you come with your daughter a
month hence.
Farewell.

Take a rose to Beauty, and remember your promise!"

The merchant was only too glad when the Beast went away, and though
he could not sleep for sadness, he lay down until the sun rose.

Then, after a hasty breakfast, he went to gather Beauty's rose, and
mounted his horse, which carried him off so swiftly that in an
instant he had lost sight of the palace, and he was still wrapped
in gloomy thoughts when it stopped before the door of the cottage.

His sons and daughters, who had been very uneasy at his long
absence, rushed to meet him, eager to know the result of his
journey, which, seeing him mounted upon a splendid horse and wrapped
in a rich mantle, they supposed to be favorable.

But he hid the truth from them at first, only saying sadly to
Beauty as he gave her the rose:

"Here is what you asked me to bring you; you little know what it has
cost."

But this excited their curiosity so greatly that presently he
told them his adventures from beginning to end, and then they were
all very unhappy.
The girls lamented loudly over their lost hopes, and the sons
declared that their father should not return to this terrible castle,
and began to make plans for killing the Beast if it should come to
fetch him. But he reminded them that he had promised to go back.
Then the girls were very angry with Beauty, and said it was all her
fault, and that if she had asked for something sensible this
would never have happened, and complained bitterly that they should
have to suffer for her folly.

Poor Beauty, much distressed, said to them:

"I have indeed caused this misfortune, but I assure you I did it
innocently. Who could have guessed that to ask for a rose in the
middle of summer would cause so much misery? But as I did the
mischief it is only just that I should suffer for it. I will therefore
go back with my father to keep his promise."
At first nobody would hear of this arrangement, and her father and
brothers, who loved her dearly, declared that nothing should make
them let her go; but Beauty was firm. As the time drew near she
divided all her little possessions between her sisters, and said
good-bye to everything she loved, and when the fatal day came
she encouraged and cheered her father as they mounted together the
horse which had brought him back. It seemed to fly rather than
gallop, but so smoothly that Beauty was not frightened; indeed,
she would have enjoyed the journey if she had not feared what
might happen to her at the end of it. Her father still tried to
persuade her to go back, but in vain. While they were talking the
night fell, and then, to their great surprise, wonderful colored
lights began to shine in all directions, and splendid fireworks blazed
out before them; all the forest was illuminated by them, and
even felt pleasantly warm, though it had been bitterly cold before.
This lasted until they reached the avenue of orange trees, where
were statues holding flaming torches, and when they got nearer to
the palace they saw that it was illuminated from the roof to the
ground, and music sounded softly from the courtyard.

"The Beast must be very hungry," said Beauty, trying to laugh, "if
he makes all this rejoicing over the arrival of his prey."
But, in spite of her anxiety, she could not help admiring all the
wonderful things she saw.

The horse stopped at the foot of the flight of steps leading to the
terrace, and when they had dismounted her father led her to the
little room he had been in before, where they found a splendid
fire burning, and the table daintily spread with a delicious
supper.

The merchant knew that this was meant for them, and Beauty, who
was rather less frightened now that she had passed through so many
rooms and seen nothing of the Beast, was quite willing to begin,
for her long ride had made her very hungry.

But they had hardly finished their meal when the noise of the Beast's
footsteps was heard approaching, and Beauty clung to her father in
terror, which became all the greater when she saw how frightened
he was.

But when the Beast really appeared, though she trembled at the
sight of him, she made a great effort to hide her horror, and
saluted him respectfully.

This evidently pleased the Beast. After looking at her he said, in a
tone that might have struck terror into the boldest heart,
though he did not seem to be angry:
"Good-evening, old man. Good-evening, Beauty."
The merchant was too terrified to reply, but Beauty answered
sweetly:

"Good-evening, Beast."No price should have purchased it of me; but
it has fallen from my bosom where I wore it in my careless
wanderings about the city."

After causing the stranger to describe the marks of his lost jewel,
the Intelligencer opened a drawer of the oaken cabinet which has
been mentioned as forming a part of the furniture of the room.  Here
were deposited whatever articles had been picked up in the streets,
until the right owners should claim them.  It was a strange and
heterogeneous collection.  Not the least remarkable part of it was a
great number of wedding-rings, each one of which had been riveted
upon the finger with holy vows, and all the mystic potency that the
most solemn rites could attain, but had, nevertheless, proved too
slippery for the wearer's vigilance.  The gold of some was worn
thin, betokening the attrition of years of wedlock; others,
glittering from the jeweller's shop, must have been lost within the
honeymoon.  There were ivory tablets, the leaves scribbled over with
sentiments that had been the deepest truths of the writer's earlier
years, but which were now quite obliterated from his memory.  So
scrupulously were articles preserved in this depository, that not
even withered flowers were rejected; white roses, and blush-roses,
and moss-roses, fit emblems of virgin purity and shamefacedness,
which bad been lost or flung away, and trampled into the pollution
of the streets; locks of hair,--the golden and the glossy dark,--the
long tresses of woman and the crisp curls of man, signified that
lovers were now and then so heedless of the faith intrusted to them
as to drop its symbol from the treasure-place of the bosom.  Many of
these things were imbued with perfumes, and perhaps a sweet scent
had departed from the lives of their former possessors ever since
they had so wilfully or negligently lost them.  Here were gold
pencil-cases, little ruby hearts with golden arrows through them,
bosom-pins, pieces of coin, and small articles of every description,
comprising nearly all that have been lost since a long time ago.
Most of them, doubtless, had a history and a meaning, if there were
time to search it out and room to tell it.  Whoever has missed
anything valuable, whether out of his heart, mind, or pocket, would
do well to make inquiry at the Central Intelligence Office.

And in the corner of one of the drawers of the oaken cabinet, after
considerable research, was found a great pearl, looking like the
soul of celestial purity, congealed and polished.

"There is my jewel! my very pearl!" cried the stranger, almost
beside himself with rapture.  "It is mine!  Give it me this moment!
or I shall perish!"

"I perceive," said the Man of Intelligence, examining it more
closely, "that this is the Pearl of Great Price!"

"The very same," answered the stranger.  "Judge, then, of my misery
at losing it out of my bosom!  Restore it to me!  I must not live
without it an instant to longer."

"Pardon me," rejoined the Intelligencer, calmly, "you ask what is
beyond my duty.  This pearl, as you well know, is held upon a
peculiar tenure; and having once let it escape from your keeping,
you have no greater claim to it--nay, not so great--as any other
person.  I cannot give it back."

Nor could the entreaties of the miserable man--who saw before his
eyes the jewel of his life without the power to reclaim it--soften
the heart of this stern being, impassive to human sympathy, though
exercising such an apparent influence over human fortunes.  Finally
the loser of the inestimable pearl clutched his hands among his
hair, and ran madly forth into the world, which was affrighted at
his desperate looks.  There passed him on the doorstep a fashionable
young gentleman, whose business was to inquire for a damask rosebud,
the gift of his lady-love, which he had lost out of his buttonhole
within a hour after receiving it. So various were the errands of
those who visited this Central Office, where all human wishes seemed
to be made known, and, so far as destiny would allow, negotiated to
their fulfilment.

The next that entered was a man beyond the middle age, bearing the
look of one who knew the world and his own course in it.  He had
just alighted from a handsome private carriage, which had orders to
wait in the street while its owner transacted his business.  This
person came up to the desk with a quick, determined step, and looked
the Intelligencer in the face with a resolute eye; though, at the
same time, some secret trouble gleamed from it in red and dusky
light.

"I have an estate to dispose of," said he, with a brevity that
seemed characteristic.

"Describe it," said the Intelligencer.

The applicant proceeded to give the boundaries of his property, its
nature, comprising tillage, pasture, woodland, and pleasure-grounds,
in ample circuit; together with a mansion-house, in the construction
of which it had been his object to realize a castle in the air,
hardening its shadowy walls into granite, and rendering its
visionary splendor perceptible to the awakened eye. Judging from his
description, it was beautiful enough to vanish like a dream, yet
substantial enough to endure for centuries.  He spoke, too, of the
gorgeous furniture, the refinements of upholstery, and all the
luxurious artifices that combined to render this a residence where
life might flow onward in a stream of golden days, undisturbed by
the ruggedness which fate loves to fling into it.

"I am a man of strong will," said he, in conclusion; "and at my
first setting out in life, as a poor, unfriended youth, I resolved
to make myself the possessor of such a mansion and estate as this,
together with the abundant revenue necessary to uphold it.  I have
succeeded to the extent of my utmost wish. And this is the estate
which I have now concluded to dispose of."

"And your terms?" asked the Intelligencer, after taking down the
particulars with which the stranger had supplied him.

"Easy, abundantly easy!" answered the successful man, smiling, but
with a stern and almost frightful contraction of the brow, as if to
quell an inward pang.  "I have been engaged in various sorts of
business,--a distiller, a trader to Africa, an East India merchant,
a speculator in the stocks,--and, in the course of these affairs,
have contracted an encumbrance of a certain nature.  The purchaser
of the estate shall merely be required to assume this burden to
himself."

"I understand you," said the Man of Intelligence, putting his pen
behind his ear.  "I fear that no bargain can be negotiated on these
conditions.  Very probably the next possessor may acquire the estate
with a similar encumbrance, but it will be of his own contracting,
and will not lighten your burden in the least."

"And am I to live on," fiercely exclaimed the stranger, "with the
dirt of these accursed acres and the granite of this infernal
mansion crushing down my soul?  How, if I should turn the edifice
into an almshouse or a hospital, or tear it down and build a
church?"

"You can at least make the experiment," said the Intelligencer; "but
the whole matter is one which you must settle for yourself."

The man of deplorable success withdrew, and got into his coach,
which rattled off lightly over the wooden pavements, though laden
with the weight of much land, a stately house, and ponderous heaps
of gold, all compressed into an evil conscience.

There now appeared many applicants for places; among the most
noteworthy of whom was a small, smoke-dried figure, who gave himself
out to be one of the bad spirits that had waited upon Dr. Faustus in
his laboratory.  He pretended to show a certificate of character,
which, he averred, had been given him by that famous necromancer,
and countersigned by several masters whom he had subsequently
served.

"I am afraid, my good friend," observed the Intelligencer, "that
your chance of getting a service is but poor.  Nowadays, men act the
evil spirit for themselves and their neighbors, and play the part
more effectually than ninety-nine out of a hundred of your
fraternity."

But, just as the poor fiend was assuming a vaporous consistency,
being about to vanish through the floor in sad disappointment and
chagrin, the editor of a political newspaper chanced to enter the
office in quest of a scribbler of party paragraphs.  The former
servant of Dr. Faustus, with some misgivings as to his sufficiency
of venom, was allowed to try his hand in this capacity.  Next
appeared, likewise seeking a service, the mysterious man in Red, who
had aided Bonaparte in his ascent to imperial power.  He was
examined as to his qualifications by an aspiring politician, but
finally rejected, as lacking familiarity with the cunning tactics of
the present day.

People continued to succeed each other with as much briskness as if
everybody turned aside, out of the roar and tumult of the city, to
record here some want, or superfluity, or desire.  Some had goods or
possessions, of which they wished to negotiate the sale.  A China
merchant had lost his health by a long residence in that wasting
climate.  He very liberally offered his disease, and his wealth
along with it, to any physician who would rid him of both together.
A soldier offered his wreath of laurels for as good a leg as that
which it had cost him on the battle-field. One poor weary wretch
desired nothing but to be accommodated with any creditable method of
laying down his life; for misfortune and pecuniary troubles had so
subdued his spirits that he could no longer conceive the possibility
of happiness, nor had the heart to try for it.  Nevertheless,
happening to, overhear some conversation in the Intelligence Office
respecting wealth to be rapidly accumulated by a certain mode of
speculation, he resolved to live out this one other experiment of
better fortune.  Many persons desired to exchange their youthful
vices for others better suited to the gravity of advancing age; a
few, we are glad to say, made earnest, efforts to exchange vice for
virtue, and, hard as the bargain was, succeeded in effecting it.
But it was remarkable that what all were the least willing to give
up, even on the most advantageous terms, were the habits, the
oddities, the characteristic traits, the little ridiculous
indulgences, somewhere between faults and follies, of which nobody
but themselves could understand the fascination.

The great folio, in which the Man of Intelligence recorded all these
freaks of idle hearts, and aspirations of deep hearts, and desperate
longings of miserable hearts, and evil prayers of perverted hearts,
would be curious reading were it possible to obtain it for
publication.  Human character in its individual developments-human
nature in the mass--may best be studied in its wishes; and this was
the record of them all.  There was an endless diversity of mode and
circumstance, yet withal such a similarity in the real groundwork,
that any one page of the volume-whether written in the days before
the Flood, or the yesterday that is just gone by, or to be written
on the morrow that is close at hand, or a thousand ages hence--might
serve as a specimen of the whole.  Not but that there were wild
sallies of fantasy that could scarcely occur to more than one man's
brain, whether reasonable or lunatic.  The strangest wishes--yet
most incident to men who had gone deep into scientific pursuits, and
attained a high intellectual stage, though not the loftiest--were,
to contend with Nature, and wrest from her some secret, or some
power, which she had seen fit to withhold from mortal grasp.  She
loves to delude her aspiring students, and mock them with mysteries
that seem but just beyond their utmost reach.  To concoct new
minerals, to produce new forms of vegetable life, to create an
insect, if nothing higher in the living scale, is a sort of wish
that has often revelled in the breast of a man of science.  An
astronomer, who lived far more among the distant worlds of space
than in this lower sphere, recorded a wish to behold the opposite
side of the moon, which, unless the system of the firmament be
reversed, she can never turn towards the earth.  On the same page of
the volume was written the wish of a little child to have the stars
for playthings.

She rushed down it, and, sure enough, there was the cave, and
in it lay the Beast--asleep, as Beauty thought. Quite glad to have
found him, she ran up and stroked his head, but to her horror he
did not move or open his eyes.

"Oh!Wealth
is the golden essence of the outward world, embodying almost
everything that exists beyond the limits of the soul; and therefore
it is the natural yearning for the life in the midst of which we
find ourselves, and of which gold is the condition of enjoyment,
that men abridge into this general wish. Here and there, it is true,
the volume testified to some heart so perverted as to desire gold
for its own sake.  Many wished for power; a strange desire indeed,
since it is but another form of slavery.  She thought she was wandering
in a lonely path in the palace gardens, when she heard groans which
seemed to come from some bushes hiding the entrance of a cave,
and running quickly to see what could be the matter, she found the
Beast stretched out upon his side, apparently dying. He
reproached her faintly with being the cause of his distress, and
at the same moment a stately lady appeared, and said very
gravely:

"Ah! Beauty, you are only just in time to save his life.The ambitious desires of public men, elsewhere
so craftily concealed, were here expressed openly and boldly, side
by side with the unselfish wishes of the philanthropist for the
welfare of the race, so beautiful, so comforting, in contrast with
the egotism that continually weighed self against the world.  Into
the darker secrets of the Book of Wishes we will not penetrate.

It would be an instructive employment for a student of mankind,
perusing this volume carefully and comparing its records with men's
perfected designs, as expressed in their deeds and daily life, to
ascertain how far the one accorded with the other. Undoubtedly, in
most cases, the correspondence would be found remote.  The holy and
generous wish, that rises like incense from a pure heart towards
heaven, often lavishes its sweet perfume on the blast of evil times.
The foul, selfish, murderous wish, that steams forth from a
corrupted heart, often passes into the spiritual atmosphere without
being concreted into an earthly deed.  Yet this volume is probably
truer, as a representation of the human heart, than is the living
drama of action as it evolves around us.  There is more of good and
more of evil in it; more redeeming points of the bad and more errors
of the virtuous; higher upsoarings, and baser degradation of the
soul; in short, a more perplexing amalgamation of vice and virtue
than we witness in the outward world.  Decency and external
conscience often produce a far fairer outside than is warranted by
the stains within.  And be it owned, oil the other hand, that a man
seldom repeats to his nearest friend, any more than he realizes in
act, the purest wishes, which, at some blessed time or other, have
arisen from the depths of his nature and witnessed for him in this
volume.  Yet there is enough on every leaf to make the good man
shudder for his own wild and idle wishes, as well as for the sinner,
whose whole life is the incarnation of a wicked desire.

But again the door is opened, and we hear the tumultuous stir of the
world,--a deep and awful sound, expressing in another form some
portion of what is written in the volume that lies before the Man of
Intelligence.  A grandfatherly personage tottered hastily into the
office, with such an earnestness in his infirm alacrity that his
white hair floated backward as he hurried up to the desk, while his
dim eyes caught a momentary lustre from his vehemence of purpose.
This venerable figure explained that he was in search of To-morrow.

"I have spent all my life in pursuit of it," added the sage old
gentleman, "being assured that To-morrow has some vast benefit or
other in store for me.  But I am now getting a little in years, and
must make haste; for, unless I overtake To-morrow soon, I begin to
be afraid it will finally escape me."

"This fugitive To-morrow, my venerable friend," said the Man of
Intelligence, "is a stray child of Time, and is flying from his
father into the region of the infinite.  Tearing herself away from
the portrait at last, she passed through into a room which contained
every musical instrument under the sun, and here she amused
herself for a long while in trying some of them, and singing until
she was tired.

The next room was a library, and she saw everything she had ever
wanted to read, as well as everything she had read, and it seemed
to her that a whole lifetime would not be enough even to read the
names of the books, there were so many. By this time it was growing
dusk, and wax candles in diamond and ruby candlesticks were beginning
to light themselves in every room.

Beauty found her supper served just at the time she preferred to
have it, but she did not see anyone or hear a sound, and, though
her father had warned her that she would be alone, she began to
find it rather dull.A man now entered, in neglected attire, with the aspect of a
thinker, but somewhat too rough-hewn and brawny for a scholar. His
face was full of sturdy vigor, with some finer and keener attribute
beneath.  Though harsh at first, it was tempered with the glow of a
large, warm heart, which had force enough to heat his powerful
intellect through and through.  He advanced to the Intelligencer and
looked at him with a glance of such stern sincerity that perhaps few
secrets were beyond its scope.

"I seek for Truth," said he.

"It is precisely the most rare pursuit that has ever come under my
cognizance," replied the Intelligencer, as he made the new
inscription in his volume.  "Most men seek to impose some cunning
falsehood upon themselves for truth.  But I can lend no help to your
researches.  You must achieve the miracle for yourself.  At some
fortunate moment you may find Truth at your side, or perhaps she may
be mistily discerned far in advance, or possibly behind you."

"Not behind me," said the seeker; "for I have left nothing on my
track without a thorough investigation.  She flits before me,
passing now through a naked solitude, and now mingling with the
throng of a popular assembly, and now writing with the pen of a
French philosopher, and now standing at the altar of an old
cathedral, in the guise of a Catholic priest, performing the high
mass.  O weary search!  But I must not falter; and surely my heart-
deep quest of Truth shall avail at last."

he is dead; and it is all my fault," said Beauty, crying bitterly.

But then, looking at him again, she fancied he still breathed, and,
hastily fetching some water from the nearest fountain, she sprinkled
it over his face, and to her great delight he began to revive.

"Oh! Beast, how you frightened me!" she cried. "I never knew how
much I loved you until just now, when I feared I was too late to
save your life."
"Can you really love such an ugly creature as I am?" said the Beast
faintly. "Ah!"Yours is a mind," answered the Man of Intelligence, "before which
the forms and fantasies that conceal the inner idea from the
multitude vanish at once and leave the naked reality beneath. Know,
then, the secret.  My agency in worldly action, my connection with
the press, and tumult, and intermingling, and development of human
affairs, is merely delusive.  The desire of man's heart does for him
whatever I seem to do.  I am no minister of action, but the
Recording Spirit."

What further secrets were then spoken remains a mystery, inasmuch as
the roar of the city, the bustle of human business, the outcry of
the jostling masses, the rush and tumult of man's life, in its noisy
and brief career, arose so high that it drowned the words of these
two talkers; and whether they stood talking in the moon, or in
Vanity Fair, or in a city of this actual world, is more than I can
say.