THE BLACK-BEARDED BARBARIAN

by Mary Esther Miller MacGregor (AKA Marion Keith)


THE BLACK BEARDED BARBARIAN (1)

     (1) The name by which George Leslie Mackay was
     known among the Chinese of north Formosa.


CHAPTER I. SPLITTING ROCKS

Up in the stony pasture-field behind the barn the boys had been working
all the long afternoon. Nearly all, that is, for, being boys, they had
managed to mix a good deal of fun with their labor. But now they were
tired of both work and play, and wondered audibly, many times over, why
they were not yet called home to supper.

The work really belonged to the Mackay boys, but, like Tom Sawyer, they
had made it so attractive that several volunteers had come to their aid.
Their father was putting up a new stone house, near the old one down
there behind the orchard, and the two youngest of the family had been
put at the task of breaking the largest stones in the field.

It meant only to drag some underbrush and wood from the forest skirting
the farm, pile them on the stones, set fire to them, and let the heat do
the rest. It had been grand sport at first, they all voted, better than
playing shinny, and almost as good as going fishing. Sey peace with
France, if France in peace our lawful entry into our city permitted,
where not, so the blood France, and the peace schwinge itself
to the sky, however, that we, God grimm full Sachwalterschaft,
Übermuth chastise the proud, of his peace in the pushes back the sky.

King Philip. sey peace with England, if this war from France to
England zurükkehrt order to live in peace. We love England, and only
England's sake, here we Schwizer under the weight of armor. That our
work should be willing to work your frey Seyn. But you're so far away
England to love that you used to "its rightful king, the succession,
which gesezmäßigen heirs of childhood abuse, and to honor the
virgin of the Crone have perpetrated violence.

Look here for your brother Gottfried face! Those eyes, those forehead,
according to the his abgedrukt; in this small is the complete
epitome of form, in Gottfried died, and the hand of time will be
rejuvenated form in a large format so just expand.

This Gottfried was born ältrer thy brother, and this one is his son.
England Gottfried was right, and this has been inherited by
Gottfried, how is it, for God's sake! that thou wilt genennt a king
as long as living blood in these temples suggests that a claim to the
Crone, what you undue wear? King John. From whom did you order this big,
France, for me the answer to your Fragstüke to draw? King Philip.
From this supreme judge of the royal souls in the noble idea erwekt,
and unjust gewaltthätigen Thater asking.

This took me to judge this boy Beschüzer made under his Schuze Klag
'I your injustice, and with his Beystand hoff 'I have to bestraffen.
King John. Du masses a reputation for yourself that you do not play.
King Philip. excuse it, it happens to unjust arrogation above. Elinor.
Who is the one you accuse of illegal arrogation? Constantia. Let me
give the answer: the arrogant king, thy son. Elinor. overruling,
outrageous, you bastard King Seyn so you Seyn a queen, and the
whole world can Hofmeister!

Constantia. My bed was your son as faithfully as the deinige your husband,
and this boy sees his father Gottfried Johann same as you, if you
like at customs Seyde each other as equal as the rain water, and
the devil his mother.

My son is a bastard! Bey of my soul, I never believe that his father
was so genuine as he is, it can not Seyn, although you would be
his mother.

though the
boys laughed at the small thin little body, they respected the daring
spirit it held, and listened for his answer.

"He's goin' to be a giant, and go off with a show," cried one, and they
all laughed again.

Little G. L. laughed too, but he did not say what he intended to do when
he grew big. Down in his heart he held a far greater ambition than the
others dreamed of. It was too great to be told--so great he scarcely
knew what it was himself. So he only shook his small head and closed his
lips tightly, and the rest forgot him and chattered on.

Away beyond the dark woods, the sunset shone red and gold between the
black tree trunks. The little boy gazed at it wonderingly. The sight of
those morning and evening glories always stirred his child's soul,
and made him long to go away--away, he knew not where--to do great and
glorious deeds. The Mackay boys' grandfather had fought at Waterloo, and
little George Leslie, the youngest of six, had heard many, many tales
of that gallant struggle, and every time they had been told him he had
silently resolved that, some day, he too would do just such brave deeds
as his grandfather had done.

As the boys talked on, and the little fellow gazed at the sunset and
dreamed, the big stone cracked in two, the fire died down, and still
there came no welcome call to supper from any of the farmhouses in
sight. The Mackay boys had been trained in a fine old-fashioned Canadian
home, and did not dream of quitting work until they were summoned. But
the visitors were merely visitors, and could go home when they liked.
The future admiral of the pirate-killing fleet declared he must go and
get supper, or he'd eat the grass, he was so hungry. The coming Premier
of Canada and the Indian-slayer agreed with him, and they all jumped the
fence, and went whooping away over the soft brown fields toward home.

There was just one big stone left. It was a huge boulder, four feet
across.

"We'll never get enough wood to crack that, G. L.," declared his
brother. "It just can't be done."

But little George answered just as any one who knew his determination
would have expected. In school he astonished his teacher by learning
everything at a tremendous rate, but there was one small word he refused
to learn--the little word "can't." His bright eyes flashed, now, at the
sound of it. He jumped upon the big stone, and clenched his fist.

"It's GOT to be broken!" he cried. "I WON'T let it beat me." He leaped
down, and away he ran toward the woods. His brother caught his spirit,
and ran too. They forgot they were both tired and hungry. They seized a
big limb of a fallen tree and dragged it across the field. They chopped
it into pieces, and piled it high with plenty of brush, upon the big
stone. In a few minutes it was all in a splendid blaze, leaping and
crackling, and sending the boys' long shadows far across the field.

The fire grew fiercer and hotter, and suddenly the big boulder cracked
in four pieces, as neatly as though it had been slashed by a giant's
sword. Little G. L. danced around it, and laughed triumphantly. The
next moment there came the welcome "hoo-hoo" from the house behind
the orchard, and away the two scampered down the hill toward home and
supper.

When the day's work of the farmhouse had been finished, the Mackay
family gathered about the fire, for the spring evening was chilly.
George Leslie sat near his mother, his face full of deep thought. It was
the hour for family worship, and always at this time he felt most keenly
that longing to do something great and glorious. Tonight his father read
of a Man who was sending out his army to conquer the world. It was only
a little army, just twelve men, but they knew their Leader had more
power than all the soldiers of the world. And they were not afraid,
though he said, "Behold, I send you forth as sheep in the midst of
wolves." For he added, "Fear ye not," for he would march before them,
and they would be sure of victory.

The little boy listened with all his might. He did everything that way.
Surely this was a story of great and glorious deeds, even better than
Waterloo, he felt. And there came to his heart a great longing to go out
and fight wrong and put down evil as these men had done. He did not
know that the longing was the voice of the great King calling his young
knight to go out and "Live pure, speak true, right wrong, follow the
King."

But there came a day when he did understand, and on that day he was
ready to obey.

When bedtime came the boys were asked if they had finished their work,
and the story of the last big stone was told. "G. L. would not leave it,"
the brother explained. The father looked smilingly at little G. L.
who still sat, dangling his short legs from his chair, and studying the
fire.

He spoke to his wife in Gaelic. "Perhaps the lad will be called to break
a great rock some day. The Lord grant he may do it."

The boy looked up wonderingly. He understood Gaelic as well as English,
but he did not comprehend his father's words. He had no idea they were
prophetic, and that away on the other side of the world, in a land his
geography lessons had not yet touched, there stood a great rock, ugly
and hard and grim, which he was one day to be called upon to break.


CHAPTER II. A VOYAGE OF DISCOVERY

The steamship America, bound for Hongkong, was leaving the dock at San
Francisco. All was bustle and noise and stir. Friends called a last
farewell from the deck, handkerchiefs waved, many of them wet with
tears. The long boom of a gun roared out over the harbor, a bell rang,
and the signal was given. Up came the anchor, and slowly and with
dignity the great vessel moved out through the Golden Gate into the wide
Pacific.

Crowds stood on the deck to get a last glimpse of home and loved ones,
and to wave to friends as long as they could be distinguished. There
was one young man who stood apart from the crowd, and who did not wave
farewell to any one. He had come on board with a couple of men, but
they had gone back to the dock, and were lost in the crowd. He seemed
entirely alone. He leaned against the deck-railing and gazed intently
over the widening strip of tumbling wafers to the city on the shore. But
he did not see it. Instead, he saw a Canadian farmhouse, a garden and
orchard, and gently sloping meadows hedged in by forest. And up behind
the barn he saw a stony field, where long ago he and his brother and the
neighbor boys had broken the stones for the new house.

His quick movements, his slim, straight figure, and his bright, piercing
eyes showed he was the same boy who had broken the big rock in the
pasture-field long before. Just the same boy, only bigger, and more man
than boy now, for he wore an air of command and his thin keen face bore
a beard, a deep black, like his hair. And now he was going away, as
he had longed to go, when he was a boy, and ahead of him lay the big
frowning rock, which he must either break or be broken upon.

He had learned many things since those days when he had scampered
barefoot over the fields, or down the road to school. He had been to
college in Toronto, in Princeton, and away over in Edinburgh, in the old
homeland where his father and mother were born. And all through his
life that call to go and do great deeds for the King had come again
and again. He had determined to obey it when he was but a little lad at
school. He had encountered many big stones in his way, which he had to
break, before he could go on. But the biggest stone of all lay across
his path when college was over, and he was ready and anxious to go away
as a missionary. The Presbyterian Church of Canada had never yet sent
out a missionary to a foreign land, and some of the good old men bade
George Mackay stay at home and preach the gospel there. But as usual he
conquered. Every one saw he would be a great missionary if he were only
given a chance. At last the General Assembly gave its consent, and now,
in spite of all stones in the way, here he was, bound for China, and
ready to do anything the King commanded. Land was beginning to fade
away into a gray mist, the November wind was damp and chill, he turned
and went down to his stateroom. He sat down on his little steamer trunk,
and for the first time the utter loneliness and the uncertainty of this
voyage came over him. He took up his Bible and turned to the fly-leaf.
There he read the inscription:

Presented to REV. G. L. MACKAY

First missionary of the Canadian Presbyterian Church to China, by the
Foreign Mission Committee, as a parting token of their esteem, when
about to leave his native land for the sphere of his future labors among
the heathen. WILLIAM MACLAREN, Convener.

Ottawa, 9th October, 1871. Matthew xxviii: 18-20. Psalm cxxi

It was a moment of severe trial to the young soldier. But he turned to
the Psalm marked on the fly-leaf of his Bible, and he read it again and
again.

"My help cometh from the Lord which made heaven and earth"

"The Lord is thy keeper: the Lord is thy shade upon thy right hand."

"The sun shall not smite thee by day, nor the moon by night."

The beautiful words gave him comfort. Homesickness, loneliness, and
fears for the future all vanished. He was going out to an unknown land
where dangers and perhaps death awaited him, but the Lord would be his
keeper and nothing could harm him.

Twenty-six days on the Pacific! And a stormy voyage it was, for the
Pacific does not always live up to her beautiful name, and she tossed
the America about in a shocking manner. But the voyage did not seem long
to George Mackay. There were other missionaries on board with whom he
had become acquainted, and he had long delightful talks with them and
they taught him many things about his new work. He was the same busy G.
L. he had been when a boy; always working, working, and he did not waste
a moment on the voyage. There was a fine library on the ship and he
studied the books on China until he knew more about the religion of that
country than did many of the Chinese themselves.

One day, as he was poring over a Chinese history, some one called him
hastily to come on deck. He threw down his book and ran up-stairs. The
whole ship was in a joyous commotion. His friend pointed toward
the horizon, and away off there against the sky stood the top of a
snow-capped peak--Fujiyama!--the majestic, sacred mountain of Japan!

It was a welcome sight, after the long ocean voyage, and the hours they
lay in Yokahama harbor were full of enjoyment. Every sight was thrilling
and strange to young Mackay's Western eyes. The harbor fairly swarmed
with noisy, shouting, chattering Japanese boatmen. He wondered why they
seemed so familiar, until it suddenly dawned on him that their queer
ricestraw coats made them look like a swarm of Robinson Crusoes who had
just been rescued from their islands.

When he landed he found things still funnier. The streets were noisier
than the harbor. Through them rolled large heavy wooden carts, pulled
and pushed by men, with much grunting and groaning. Past him whirled
what looked like overgrown baby carriages, also pulled by men, and each
containing a big grown-up human baby. It was all so pretty too, and so
enchanting that the young missionary would fain have remained there. But
China was still farther on, so when the America again set sail, he was
on board.

Away they sailed farther and farther east, or was it west? He often
asked himself that question in some amusement as they approached the
coast of China. They entered a long winding channel and steamed this
way and that until one day they sailed into a fine broad harbor with
a magnificent city rising far up the steep sides of a hill. It was an
Oriental city, and therefore strange to the young traveler. But for all
that there seemed something familiar in the fine European buildings
that lined the streets, and something still more homelike in that which
floated high above them--something that brought a thrill to the heart of
the young Canadian--the red-crossed banner of Britain!

It was Hongkong, the great British port of the East, and here he decided
to land. No sooner had the travelers touched the dock, than they were
surrounded by a yelling, jostling crowd of Chinese coolies, all shouting
in an outlandish gibberish for the privilege of carrying the Barbarians'
baggage. A group gathered round Mackay, and in their eagerness began
hammering each other with bamboo poles. He was well-nigh bewildered,
when above the din sounded the welcome music of an English voice.

"Are you Mackay from Canada?"

He whirled round joyfully. It was Dr. E. J. Eitel, a missionary from
England. He had been told that the young Canadian would arrive on the
America and was there to welcome him.

Although the Canadian Presbyterian Church had as yet sent out no
missionaries to a foreign land, the Presbyterian Church of England had
many scattered over China. They were all hoping that the new recruit
would join them, and invited him to visit different mission stations,
and see where he would like to settle.

So he remained that night in Hongkong, as Dr. Eitel's guest, and the
next morning he took a steamer for Canton. Here he was met on the
pier by an old fellow student of Princeton University, and the two old
college friends had a grand reunion. He returned to Hongkong shortly,
and next visited Swatow. As they sailed into the harbor, he noticed two
Englishmen rowing out toward them in a sampan. (*) No sooner had the ship's
ladder been lowered, than the two sprang out of their boat and clambered
quickly on deck. To Mackay's amazement, one of them called out, "Is
Mackay of Canada on board?"

     * A Chinese boat from twelve to fifteen feet long, covered
     with a house.

"Mackay of Canada," sprang forward delighted, and found his two new
friends to be Mr. Hobson of the Chinese imperial customs, and Dr.
Thompson of the English Presbyterian mission in Swatow.

The missionaries here gave the stranger a warm welcome. At every place
he had visited there had awaited him a cordial invitation to stay and
work. And now at Swatow he was urged to settle down and help them. There
was plenty to be done, and they would be delighted to have his help.

But for some reason, Mackay scarcely knew why himself, he wanted to see
another place.

Away off the southeastern coast of China lies a large island called
Formosa. It is separated from the mainland by a body of water called
the Formosa Channel. This is in some places eighty miles wide, in others
almost two hundred. Mackay had often heard of Formosa even before coming
to China, and knew it was famed for its beauty.

Even its name shows this. Long, long years before, some navigators from
Portugal sailed to this beautiful island. They had stood on the deck
of their ship as they approached it, and were amazed at its loveliness.
They saw lofty green mountains piercing the clouds. They saw silvery
cascades tumbling down their sides, flashing in the sunlight, and,
below, terraced plains sloping down to the sea, covered with waving
bamboo or with little water-covered rice-fields. It was all so
delightful that no wonder they cried,

"Illha Formosa! Illha Formosa!"

"Beautiful Isle! Beautiful Isle." Since that day the "Beautiful Isle,"
perhaps the most charming in all the world, has been called Formosa.

And, somehow, Mackay longed to see this "Beautiful Isle" before he
decided where he was going to preach the gospel. And so when the kind
friends at Swatow said, "Stay and work with us," he always answered,
"I must first see Formosa."

So, one day, he sailed away from the mainland toward the Beautiful
Isle. He landed at Takow in the south of the island, just about
Christmas-time. "Since I only watch the Buberl," she said then, might be
her husband, "Will it be jealous nit, Paul?" Then smiled Paul. And
from their words and jokes from his smile spoke intimate awareness
Compiled hearing. They had, except one son, who was then in the stranger
had no children, and perhaps I was the two part so welcome, especially
since Ms. Paulsen repeatedly assured me that I have such a degree
as their Lustigs Naserl Joseph.

I will not deny that the latter also to me very much, in our city
but otherwise completely unknown to prepare desserts understood nor
failed me then and when guests ask .-- So were there because of the
attraction for me enough. From my father, but my traffic has been
stalwart in the Bürgerhaus welcome. "Care only that you do not fall
annoying!" was the only thing in this relationship, he sometimes reminded
me. I think not, however, that my friends often come to each bin.

As it happened one day that my parents' home in an old Lord of our
city from the newest and really pretty good work of my hands has
been presented.

When this his admiration to recognize gave, on the other hand, my
father remarked that I also have been almost a year with Master
Paulsen was in teaching.

"So, so," replied the old gentleman; "in Poppenspäler Pole!"

I had never heard that my friend lead such a nickname, and asked, perhaps
a little saucy, what that should mean. But the old man smiled very sneaky
and wanted no further information geben.-On Sunday, I was by the Paul
Chen spouses are invited to the evening to help them celebrate their
wedding day to help. It was in late summer, and since I am early on the
road and the housewife is still in the kitchen had to run a business,
so Paulsen went with me into the garden, where we are together
under the big lime sat on the bench.

I was the "Pole Poppenspäler again haggard, and there was me in the
head around so that I hardly talk to his answer was, finally, as he looked
at me a little because of my seriously rebuked absentmindedness
had gradezu I asked him what that epithet to mean that.

He was very angry. "Who has made you a stupid word taught?" he cried, he
jumped up from his seat. But before I could even answer, he sat
next to me again. "Run, run!" he said, may reflect that "it is actually
the best of what life has given me .-- I will tell you, we probably still
have time to do so." - ----------- ------------------ In this house
and garden I grew up, my good parents lived here, and hopefully will
once my son live here! - That I was a boy, is now a long time ago, but
some things from that era still stand as drawn with colored pencil, before
my eyes. In addition to our front door was then a small white bench
with green bars in the rear and side backs, which was after the one
side down the long road to the church, after another out of the city
to the fields could be seen. On summer evenings, my parents were
sitting here, the rest after work, nurturing, in the hours beforehand,
but I used them in fitting to take and here in the open air and
refreshing outlook to the east and west my school records.

So I sat one afternoon - I did think it was in September, just after
our Michaelis-year market - and wrote for my master computational
algebra examples on the blackboard when I bottom of the street a
strange vehicle had come up.

It was a two-wheel carts, the rough a little horse has been pulled.

Between two fairly large crates, with whom he was loaded, sat a large
blonde woman with stiff wooden face and a roughly nine-year-old girl, his
lively black heads from one side after another shot, went alongside the
reins in his hand, a small, funny-looking man, which under his
green cap, short black hair like skewers of head distance.

Thus, under the Gebimmel a bell, under the neck of the horse was, they
came out. Then they came for the street in front of our home had
reached, did the cart stop.

"You boy," cried the woman over to me, "where is the Schneider Hostel?"
My pen had rested for a long time now eilfertig I jumped up and came
to the car. "You are before grad," I said and pointed at the old house
with the square geschorenen lime, which, as you know, even now opposite.
Dirnchen The fine was among the crates up, stretching the head from
the hood of their verschossenen Chen's coats and looked with her big
eyes at me down, but the man, with a "seat quietly, Diendl!" and "Thank
you, Bub!"

whipped on the small horse and rode to the door of the designated house,
from which even the thick Hostel father in his green apron entgegentrat
him. The fact that the newcomers to the guild is not legitimate part
of the house guests, I had indeed made clear, but it tended to -
what happened to me now, if I remember it, with the reputation of
wohlehrsamen craft will be no rhyme - also give me much more pleasant
people einzukehren.

Up there on the second floor, where even today, instead of the simple
wooden box hatches on the streets, was the traditional quarters of all
mobile musicians, or Acrobat tamers, which in our city's art was
the best.

And right when I am next morning the top in my room before the window
stood, and my school bag schnürte was over there has set off one of
the hatches, the little man with the black hair spears stuck his
head into the open and spread with both arms in the fresh air out,
then turned his head behind after the dark back room, and I heard him
"Lisei! Lisei!" call .-- Since pressed under his arm a rosy Gesichtlein
prior to actually looks like a black mane hair herabfiel. The father
pointed a finger over after me, they laughed and plucking a few
strands of her silken.

What he said to her, I can not understand, but it may well have been
about. "Look at him, Lisei! Know it yet, the Bubner yesterday - the poor
fool, since he must now coincide with the knapsack to school trot! -
What you need for a happy Diendl are, you just allweg with our Landaben
brown, another, need to go! "- at least saw the little girl very
compassionate to me over and when I dared her zuzunicken friendly, she
nodded very seriously again. Soon the father but moved his head back
and disappeared in background of its ground space. Instead of his now
joined the big blonde woman to the child, she took hold of her head
and her hair began to Straehle. The business seemed to be silently
executed and the Lisei was apparently not mucksen, although it repeatedly
if her comb in the neck hinabfuhr the angular figures with their red
Mäulchen formed. Only once lifted her arm and had a long hair on
the lime in the morning outside air also fly. I could from my window
to see it shine, because the sun was just through the autumn fog pushed
over and seemed on the upper part of the hostel building. Even in
the previously impenetrable dark floor room I could see it now.
Quite clearly I saw in a dim angle of the man sitting at a table in his
hand, flashing a bit like gold or silver, then it's like a face with an
enormous nose, but my eyes sosehr effort, I could not make head or tail
of it are . Suddenly, I heard as if something in a Wooden box would be
thrown, and now the man stood up and leaned out of a second hatch is
back on the street. The woman, however, had the little black prostitute
verschossenes a red dress on and her Braiding hair like a wreath to put
the round head.

I was still over. "Once I thought," but she could nod again ."--"
Paul, Paul! " I heard a sudden the bottom of our home voice call my
mother. "Yes, yes, mother!" It was neat to me as a terror in the limbs
beaten. "Well," she cried again, "the master calculator will give you
beautiful translation of the time ! Knowest thou not that it is round
seven has beaten? "How quickly I rumbled down the stairs, but I was
lucky, the master computing grad was in the process of its bergamot
weight, and half the school was in his garden, with hands and mouths to
help him. Only nine clock we all sat down with hot cheeks and funny
faces at table book and calculator on our benches. As I at eleven, the
bags of pears still staring from the school came, came the big
town crier the road up.

He suggested the key to his sheer brass basin and cried with his
beer voice: "The Puppeteer Mechanikus and Mr Joseph Tendler from
the residential city of Munich has arrived here yesterday and will
be tonight in Schützenhofsaale give his first presentation.

Presented is: Palatine Siegfried and the holy Genoveva, puppetry with
singing in four lifts. "Then he räusperte gracefully and gradually my
home in the opposite direction. I followed him from street to street,
again and again to the Annunciation delightful to hear, because I never
had a comedy, let alone a puppet seen. - When I finally reversed, I saw
a red dress me come, and really, it was the little puppeteer, despite
their verschossenen suit seemed to me of a fairy-tale splendor surrounded.
I grabbed my heart and told them: "Will you go for a walk , Lisei?
"She looked at me suspicious of her black eyes. "Walking?" Repeated
stretched. "Oh, you - you're g'scheit!" "What wilt thou?" - "To Ellen
Kramer i want!" "Would you buy a new dress?" I asked enough boobies. She
laughed out loud. "Go! Let mi out! - No, the only way Fetz'ln!"

"Fetz'ln, Lisei?" - "Freili! Stop Resteln the only way to G'wandl for
Pupp'n; 's kost't always nit much! "A happy thought went through my
head. An old uncle of mine had on a Markte Ellen goods act, and his
old servant was loading my good friend. "Come with me," I said boldly,
"it will cost you nothing, Lisei!" "Do?" asked her yet, then we both ran
after the market and in the house of his uncle. The old Gabriel
was, as always in his salt-and pepper-colored rock behind the
counter, and when I gave him our concern was made clear, he kramte
a bunch of good-natured "Rester" on the table together.

"Look, the Brinnrot pretty!" nodded and said Lisei desire for a piece
of cotton over the French. "Can it do?" asked Gabriel .-- Whether they
need it could! The knight Siegfried should be yes to the evening, a new
tailored jacket get. "But there are also yet to braids," said the old
man and brought all sorts Endchen gold and Silberflitter.

Soon came more green and yellow ribbons Seidenläppchen and finally to
a fairly large piece of brown plush. "Pick's only child!" said Gabriel.
"This is an animal for your Genoveva if perhaps the old verschossen
would be!" Then he grabbed all the glory, and delivered them to the
kids in the arm. "And it kost't nix?" asked her uneasy. No, it cost
nothing. Her eyes glowed. "Beautiful" Thanks, good man! Oh, look, the
father! "Hand in hand with her Lisei packet under his arm, we left the
shop, but as we near our apartment came, she let me go and ran over the
road to the hostel Schneider that their black lichens in the neck
flew .-- After lunch, I stood on our doorstep and palpitations
considered under the venture, already the first idea of my father
for admission to tackle, I was with the Gallery satisfied, and they
should give us guys a double Schilling cost.

Since before I's still with me into pure brought Lisei came on the road
to me hergeflogen. "The father sends it!" she said, and anyway I
versah's, she was again, but in my hand, I gave a red card, it was
with big letters: First place. When I up, waved over by the little black
man with two arms from the Bodenluke over to me. I nodded to him, what
had for nice people in these puppeteers! "So tonight," I said to myself,
"tonight and - First Place!" ---------------------------- - You know
our Schützenhof in Süderstraße; on the door you could see at that
time still a beautifully painted life-size shooters with Federhut
and rifle, but was in fact the old box was still dilapidated, as
it is today.

The company was up to three members herabgesunken the centuries by the
ancient Landesherzögen gift silver cups, powder horns and honor chains
were gradually swallowed up, the large garden, which, as you know,
on the pavement turns out, it was for sheep and Ziegengräsung
tenancies.

The old two-house was not inhabited by anyone still needed; windrissig
and forfeited because it was lively between neighboring houses,
and only in the barren whitewashed room, almost the entire upper
floor rise, produced some strong men, or passing their pocket players
Arts.

Then the bottom was the big front door painted with the shooter's
brother creaking open. - Slowly, it was evening has become, and -
the end bore the burden, because my father wanted me until five
minutes before the scheduled run-up bell, he said, an exercise in
the patient was much needed, so I sit silent in the theater.

At last I was on the spot. The door stood wide open, and all sorts
of people walked into it, because at present it was still happy
for such amusements; to Hamburg was a long journey, and few had the
small things at home by there looking sorry glories can .- -As I
climbed up oak spiral staircase was, I found Liseis mother at the
entrance of the hall, sit at the checkout.

I approached her myself completely confidential, and thought that she
would rather me so as to welcome an old friend, but she sat silent
and rigid, and took my card, as if I had not the slightest relationship
to her family had met .-- Slightly humiliated I entered the hall,
the next things harrend, chatted with a half vote all confused;
fiedelte to our Stadtmusikus with three of his companions.

The first, as my eyes fell, was in the depths of the hall, a red curtain
above the musicians seats. The painting in the middle of that was
two long trumpets, which criss-cross on a golden lyre were, and
what happened to me at that time seemed very strange at the tip of
each was, as with the empty eyes daraufgeschoben, here is a dark,
have a laugh pronounced mask .-- The three front seats were already
occupied, and I pushed myself in the fourth bank, where I was a
school-mates had noticed that there was sitting next to his parents.

Behind us build the seats diagonally ascending to the heights, so that
the last one, called the Gallery, which can only stand was nearly man
high above the floor are liked. Also there seemed to be wohlgefüllt; I
just could not see it, because the few tallow candles, which
Blechlampetten at the two side walls burned, spread only a weak
brightness; also darkened the heavy beamed ceiling of the hall. My
neighbor wanted me to tell a school story, and I could not understand
how he could think of something, I just looked at the curtain, which the
lamps of the podium and the musicians desks was solemnly lighted. And
now there was a labor of its area, the mysterious world behind him
already started to rain, even for a moment, because the yell a bell
ringing, and while in the audience humming the chatter like a silent
stroke, the curtain flew into the Height .-- A glance at the scene
returned to me one thousand years back.

I saw in a medieval castle with tower and drawbridge, two little long
of people standing in the middle and lively talk with each other. The one
with the black beard, the silver feather helmet and jacket on the
goldgestickten Under the red dress was the Palatine Siegfried, for he
did against the heathen Moors ride into battle and commanded his young
caretaker Golo, in the blue doublet silbergesticktem stood beside him, to
Protection of Genoveva Pfalz Countess in the castle behind.

The Golo unfaithful but did enormous wild, that he had his good Lord so
alone in the grim game swords should be denied. They shot at these
speeches change the heads back and forth and fought fiercely and snatch
with the poor .-- Since sounded small elongated trumpet sounds from
the outside behind the drawbridge, and at the same time came the beautiful
Genoveva clothed in himmelblauem tow behind the tower and suggested
hervorgestürzt both arms husband on the shoulders: "Oh, my herzallerliebst
Siegfried, if you the cruel massacre not only Gentiles!" But it helped
her nothing; again sounded the trumpets, and the count progressively
stiff and dignified on the drawbridge from the court, we clearly
heard outside the withdrawal of armed troops. The evil Golo was now lord
of the Burg.-And now the piece is played more like it in your book is
printed .-- I was on my bank just as enchanted; these strange movements,
these fine purring or the puppet voice, but because the really came from
their mouths - it was an eerie life in these small figures, which
nevertheless my eyes as to be magnetically attracted.

In the second elevators but it should be even better come .-- There was
among the worshipers at the castle in a yellow Nankinganzug, the
puppet was. If this guy was not alive, it was still never been alive,
he made the ungeheuersten jokes, so that the whole room shook with
laughter in his nose, as big as a sausage was, in any case he had to
have a joint, because if he be so stupid-clever herausschüttelte laugh
so schlenkerte tip of the nose back and forth as if he had not before
gaiety to know, while the guy pulled his big mouth and cracked, like an
old owl, with the Kinnbacksknochen. "Pardauz!" it cried, so he always
jumped onto the stage, then he himself, and spoke only just wide
with his thumbs, he could be so expressive, and resist spin, that
it went well as "Here and there nix nix!

war du nix, so you have nothing! "And then his squint - that was so
seductive that the moment the entire audience's eyes in his head
was twisted. I was quite fond of the dear fellow! Finally the game was
over, and I sat back at home in our living room and eaten in silence the
Aufgebratene, my good mother had asked me warm. My father sat in the
chair and smoked his evening pipe. "Well, boy," cried he, "they were
alive?" "I do not know, father," I said, and worked more in my bowl, I
was still quite confused the senses. He looked at me for a while with his
wise smile . "Listen, Paul," he said, "you can not too often in these
dolls box, the things you could at the end of the school run." My father
was not wrong. The algebra tasks upon me in the next two days so
moderate that the calculation of master me my first place to reduce
risk .-- If I calculate in my head wanted: "a + b = c equal to x", so I
listened instead to my the delicate ears of the beautiful bird
Genoveva voice: "Oh, my herzallerliebst Siegfried, if you the evil
pagans not only massacred!"

Once - but no one has seen it - I even wrote "Genoveva + x" on the
blackboard .-- In At night in my bedroom once cried aloud "Pardauz"
and came with a set of love in his puppet Nankinganzug me to jump into
bed, lifted his arms to both sides of my head in the pillow and cried,
grinning at me herabnickend " Oh, you love Brüderle! Oh, you hertausig
Liebs Brüderle! " They chopped him with his long red nose in the mean,
I woke up like this. Since I saw as clearly that there is only a dream
had been.

I closed everything in my heart and home hardly dared to open up the
mouth of the puppet comedy. But next Sunday is the crier through the
streets once again went to his pelvis and loudly proclaimed
suggested: "Tonight on the Schützenhof: Doktor Faust hell ride, puppet
show into four elevators!" - Because it was no longer bearable. As the
cat around hot porridge, so I tiptoed around my father around, and
finally he understood my silent glance .-- "Pole," he said, "it
could get a drop of blood from the heart go, maybe it's the best
cure , once you thoroughly fed up with it. " Thus he reached into
the pocket and gave me a double-Schilling.

I immediately ran from the house, first on the road, it was clear to
me that so long as eight hours to the top of the comedy were
abzuleben. So I ran because behind the gardens on the pavement. When I
open the garden of grass Schützenhof came, pulled me into it involuntarily,
perhaps, is that even some dolls up there looked out the windows,
because the stage was so on the back of the house.

But I had to then through the upper part of the garden, with lime
and chestnut trees, there was tight. I was somewhat zag felt I dared
not yet further ahead. Suddenly I received from a large, goat here
angepflockten a shove in the back, that I by twenty steps away he flew.
It helped, as I umsah, I have stood under the trees.
For, once seized by malaria
in Formosa, one seldom makes his escape. They put the sick man into the
chair, now in a raging fever, and he was carried by the four coolies.

They were nearing the end of their journey and were now among a people
not Chinese. They belonged to the original Malayan race of the island.
They had been conquered by the Chinese, who in the early days came over
from China under a pirate named Koxinga. As the Chinese name every one
but themselves "barbarians," they gave this name to all the natives of
the island. They had conquered all but the dreaded head-hunters, who,
free in their mountain fastnesses, took a terrible toll of heads
from their would-be conquerors, or even from their own half-civilized
brethren.

The native Malayans who had been subdued by the Chinese were given
different names. Those who lived on the great level rice-plain
over which the missionaries were traveling, were called Pe-po-hoan,
"Barbarians of the plain." Mackay could see little difference between
them and the Chinese, except in the cast of their features, and their
long-shaped heads. They wore Chinese dress, even to the cue, worshiped
the Chinese gods, and spoke with a peculiar Malayan twang.

The travelers were journeying rather wearily over a low muddy stretch
of ground, picking their way along the narrow paths between the
rice-fields, when they saw a group of men come hurrying down the path to
meet them. They kept calling out, but the words they used were not the
familiar "foreign devil" or "ugly barbarian." Instead the people were
shouting words of joyful welcome.

Dr. Dickson hailed them with delight, and soon he and Mr. Ritchie's
sedan-chair were surrounded by a clamorous group of friends.

They had journeyed so far south that they had arrived at the borders
of the English Presbyterian mission, and the people crowding about them
were native Christians. It was all so different from their treatment
by the heathen that Mackay's heart was warmed. When the great stone of
heathenism was broken, what love and kindness were revealed!

The visitors were led in triumph to the village. There was a chapel
here, and they stayed nearly a week, preaching and teaching.

The rest did Mr. Ritchie much good, and at the end of their visit he
was once more able to start off on foot. They moved on from village to
village and everywhere the Pe-po-hoan Christians received them with the
greatest hospitality.

But at last the three friends found the time had come for them to part.
The two Englishmen had to go on through their fields to their south
Formosan home and the young Canadian must go back to fight the battle
alone in the north of the island. He had endeared himself to the two
older men, and when the farewells came they were filled with regret.

They bade him a lingering good-by, with many blessings upon his young
head, and many prayers for success in the hard fight upon which he
was entering. They walked a short way with him, and stood watching
the straight, lithe young figure, SO full of courage and hope until it
disappeared down the valley. They knew only too well the dangers and
trials ahead of him, but they knew also that he was not going into the
fight alone. For the Captain was going with his young soldier.

There was a suspicion of moisture in the eyes of the older missionaries
as they turned back to prepare for their own journey southward.

"God bless the boy!" said Dr. Dickson fervently. "We'll hear of that
young fellow yet, Ritchie. He's on fire."


CHAPTER IV. BEGINNING THE SIEGE

The news was soon noised about Tamsui that one of the three barbarians
who had so lately visited the town had returned to make the place his
home. This was most unwelcome tidings to the heathen, and the air was
filled with mutterings and threatenings, and every one was determined to
drive the foreign devil out if at all possible. So Mackay found
himself meeting every kind of opposition. He was too independent to ask
assistance from the British consul in the old Dutch fort on the bluff,
or of any other European settlers in Tamsui. He was bound to make
his own way. But it was not easy to do so in view of the forces which
opposed him. He had now been in Formosa about two months and had studied
the Chinese language every waking hour, but it was very difficult, and
he found his usually ready tongue wofully handicapped.

His first concern was to get a dwelling-place, and he went from house to
house inquiring for some place to rent. Everywhere he went he was turned
away with rough abuse, and occasionally the dogs were set upon him.

But at last he was successful. Up on the bank of the river, a little way
from the edge of the town, he found a place which the owner condescended
to rent. It was a miserable little hut, half house, half cellar,
built into the side of the hill facing the river. A military officer had
intended it for his horse-stable, and yet Mackay paid for this hovel the
sum of fifteen dollars a month. It had three rooms, one without a floor.
The road ran past the door, and a few feet beyond was the river. By
spending money rather liberally he managed to hire the coolie who had
accompanied him to south Formosa. With his servant's help Mackay had his
new establishment thoroughly cleaned and whitewashed, and then he moved
in his furniture. He laughed as he called it furniture, for it consisted
of but two packing boxes full of books and clothing. But more came
later. The British consul, Mr. Frater, lent him a chair and a bed. There
was one old Chinese, who kept a shop near by, and who seemed inclined to
be friendly to the queer barbarian with the black beard. He presented
him with an old pewter lamp, and the house was furnished complete.

Mackay sat down at his one table, the first night after he was settled.
The damp air was hot and heavy, and swarms of tormenting mosquitoes
filled the room. Through the open door came the murmur of the river, and
from far down in the village the sounds of harsh, clamorous voices. He
was alone, many, many miles from home and friends. Around him on every
side were bitter enemies.

One might have supposed he would be overcome at the thought of the
stupendous task before him, but whoever supposed that did not know
George Mackay. He lighted his pewter lamp, opened his diary, and these
are the words he wrote:

"Here I am in this house, having been led all the way from the old
homestead in Zorra by Jesus, as direct as though my boxes were labeled,
`Tamsui, Formosa, China.' Oh, the glorious privilege to lay the
foundation of Christ's Church in unbroken heathenism! God help me to
do this with the open Bible! Again I swear allegiance to thee, O King
Jesus, my Captain. So help me God!"

And now his first duty was to learn the Chinese language. He could
already speak a little, but it would be a long time, he knew, before he
could preach. And yet, how was he to learn? he asked himself. He was
a scholar without a teacher or school. But there was his servant, and
nothing daunted by the difficulties to be overcome, he set to work to
make him his teacher also.

George Mackay always went at any task with all his might and main, and
he attacked the Chinese language in the same manner. He found it a hard
stone to break, however. "Of all earthly things I know of," he remarked
once, "it is the most intricate and difficult to master."

His unwilling teacher was just about as hard to manage as his task, for
the coolie did not take kindly to giving lessons. He certainly had a
rather hard time. Day and night his master deluged him with questions.
He made him repeat phrases again and again until his pupil could say
them correctly. He asked him the name of everything inside the house and
out, until the easy-going Oriental was overcome with dismay. This wild
barbarian, with the fiery eyes and the black beard, was a terrible
creature who gave one no rest night nor day. Sometimes after Mackay had
spent hours with him, imitating sounds and repeating the names of
things over and over, his harassed teacher would back out of the room
stealthily, keeping an anxious eye on his master, and showing plainly he
had grave fears that the foreigner had gone quite mad.

Mackay realized that the pace was too hard for his servant, and that the
poor fellow was in a fair way to lose what little wits he had, if not
left alone occasionally. So one day he wandered out along the riverbank,
in search of some one who would talk with him. He turned into a path
that led up the hill behind the town. He was in hopes he might meet a
farmer who would be friendly.

When he reached the top of the bluff he found a grassy common stretching
back toward the rice-fields. Here and there over these downs strayed the
queer-looking water-buffaloes. Some of them were plunged deep in pools
of water, and lay there like pigs with only their noses out.

He heard a merry laugh and shout from another part of the common, and
there sat a crowd of frolicsome Chinese boys, in large sun hats, and
short loose trousers. There were about a dozen of them, and they were
supposed to be herding the water-buffaloes to keep them out of the
unfenced fields. But, boylike, they were flying kites, and letting their
huge-horned charges herd themselves.

Mackay walked over toward them. It was not so long since he had been a
boy himself, and these jolly lads appealed to him. But the moment one
caught sight of the stranger, he gave a shout of alarm. The rest jumped
up, and with yells of terror and cries of "Here's the foreign devil!"
"Run, or the foreign devil will get you!" away they went helter-skelter,
their big hats waving, their loose clothes flapping wildly. They all
disappeared like magic behind a big boulder, and the cause of their
terror had to walk away.

But the next day, when his servant once more showed signs of mental
exhaustion, he strolled out again upon the downs. The boys were there
and saw him coming. Though they did not actually run away this time,
they retired to a safe distance, and stood ready to fly at any sign of
the barbarian's approach. They watched him wonderingly. They noticed his
strange white face, his black beard, his hair cut off quite short, his
amazing hat, and his ridiculous clothes. And when at last he walked
away, and all danger was over, they burst into shouts of laughter.

The next day, as they scampered about the common, here again came
the absurd-looking stranger, walking slowly, as though careful not to
frighten them. The boys did not run away this time, and to their utter
astonishment he spoke to them. Mackay had practised carefully the words
he was to say to them, and the well-spoken Chinese astounded the lads
as much as if one of the monkeys that gamboled about the trees of their
forests should come down and say, "How do you do, boys?"

"Why, he speaks our words!" they all cried at once.

As they stood staring, Mackay took out his watch and held it up for them
to see. It glittered in the sun, and at the sight of it and the kind
smiling face above, they lost their fears and crowded around him. They
examined the watch in great wonder. They handled his clothes, exclaimed
over the buttons on his coat, and inquired what they were for. They felt
his hands and his fingers, and finally decided that, in spite of his
queer looks, he was after all a man.

From that day the young missionary and the herd-boys were great friends.
Every day he joined them in the buffalo pasture, and would spend from
four to five hours with them. And as they were very willing to talk,
he not only learned their language rapidly, but also learned much about
their homes, their schools, their customs, and their religion.

One day, after a lengthy lesson from his servant, the latter decided
that the barbarian was unbearable, and bundling up his clothes he
marched off, without so much as "by your leave." So Mackay fell back
entirely upon his little teachers on the common. With their assistance
in the daytime and his Chinese-English dictionary at night, he made
wonderful progress.

He was left alone now, to get his own meals and keep the swarms of flies
and the damp mold out of his hut by the riverside. He soon learned to
eat rice and water-buffalo meat, but he missed the milk and butter and
cheese of his old Canadian home. For he discovered that cows were never
milked in Formosa. There was variety of food, however, as almost every
kind of vegetable that he had ever tasted and many new kinds that he
found delicious were for sale in the open-fronted shops in the village.
Then the fruits! They were fresh at all seasons--oranges the whole year,
bananas fresh from the fields--and such pineapples! He realized that he
had never really tasted pineapples before.

Meanwhile, he was becoming acquainted. All the families of the herd-boys
learned to like him, and when others came to know him they treated him
with respect. He was a teacher, they learned, and in China a teacher is
always looked upon with something like reverence. And, besides, he had
a beard. This appendage was considered very honorable among Chinese, so
the black-bearded barbarian was respected because of this.

But there was one class that treated him with the greatest scorn. These
were the Chinese scholars. They were the literati, and were like princes
in the land. They despised every one who was not a graduate of their
schools, and most of all they despised this barbarian who dared to set
himself up as a teacher. Mackay had now learned Chinese well enough
to preach, and his sermons aroused the indignation of these proud
graduates.

Sometimes when one was passing the little hut by the river, he would
drop in, and glance around just to see what sort of place the barbarian
kept. He would pick up the Bible and other books, throw them on the
floor, and with words of contempt strut proudly out.

Mackay endured this treatment patiently, but he set himself to study
their books, for he felt sure that the day was not far distant when he
must meet these conceited literati in argument.

He went about a good deal now. The Tamsui people became accustomed to
him, and he was not troubled much. His bright eyes were always wide open
and he learned much of the lives of the people he had come to teach.
Among the poor he found a poverty of which he had never dreamed. They
could live upon what a so-called poor family in Canada would throw away.
Nothing was wasted in China. He often saw the meat and fruit tins he
threw away when they were emptied, reappearing in the market-place. He
learned that these poorer people suffered cruel wrongs at the hands
of their magistrates. He visited a yamen, or court-house, and saw the
mandarin "dispense justice," but his judgment was said to be always given
in favor of the one who paid him the highest bribe. He saw the widow
robbed, and the innocent suffering frightful tortures, and sometimes
he strode home to his little hut by the river, his blood tingling with
righteous indignation. And then he would pray with all his soul:

"O God, give me power to teach these people of thy love through Jesus
Christ!"

But of all the horrors of heathenism, and there were many, he found the
religion the most dreadful. He had read about it when on board ship, but
he found it was infinitely worse when written in men's lives than when
set down in print. He never realized what a blessing was the religion of
Jesus Christ to a nation until he lived among a people who did not know
Him.

He found almost as much difficulty in learning the Chinese religion as
the Chinese language. After he had spent days trying to understand it,
it would seem to him like some horrible nightmare filled with wicked
devils and no less wicked gods and evil spirits and ugly idols. And to
make matters worse there was not one religion, but a bewildering mixture
of three. First of all there was the ancient Chinese religion, called
Confucianism. Confucius, a wise man of China, who lived ages before, had
laid down some rules of conduct, and had been worshiped ever since.
Very good rules they were as far as they went, and if the Chinese had
followed this wise man they would not have drifted so far from the
truth. But Confucianism meant ancestor-worship. In every home was a
little tablet with the names of the family's ancestors upon it, and
every one in the house worshiped the spirits of those departed. With
this was another religion called Taoism. This taught belief in wicked
demons who lurked about people ready to do them some ill. Then,
years and years before, some people from India had brought over their
religion, Buddhism, which had become a system of idol-worship. These
three religions were so mixed up that the people themselves were not
able to distinguish between them. The names of their idols would cover
pages, and an account of their religion would fill volumes. The more
Mackay learned of it, the more he yearned to tell the people of the one
God who was Lord and Father of them all.

As soon as he had learned to write clearly, he bought a large sheet of
paper, and printed on it the ten commandments in Chinese characters.
Then he hung it on the outside of his door. People who passed read it
and made comments of various kinds. Several threw mud at it, and at
last a proud graduate, who came striding past his silk robes rustling
grandly, caught the paper and tore it down. Mackay promptly put up
another. It shared the fate of the first. Then he put up a third, and
the people let it alone. Even these heathen Chinese were beginning to
get an impression of the dauntless determination of the man with whom
they were to get much better acquainted.

Hear my petition! Give substance! A strong, durable cloth! "A Saxon
Mönchlein from the cowl schloff. Since, knights, you have a good material!"
IX Epistolae obscurorum virorum We Scharten us lust'gem mummery, hoods
over full Lockenhaus wreath! We wore Pfaff larvae hypocritical And
flashed of it with fresh eyes of youth. tappig We slides with sandals
Tritt, we äfften according to the cowl section. We thoroughly studied the
cup Klang Mönchlein The clownish thought. The stupidity, we have
decorated with wit, The folly fitted with sentences, we have to ridicule
the world, we have and they laughed to death! to death? No. We have
dedicated Aristophanes immortality.

Schleiferius! Caprimulgius! Ox horn! Schlaraffen! The saubre Täufling
Pfefferkorn! Pertly We broke into their cells, and resided in their
bad books Shrine. We talked her Latin - amuse Game - And we wrote letters
in the monastery style: "Laetificor archiangelice una speciosa Virgine
Cum!" Hellauf! The shrill sound Narrenglöcklein! And heißa, hussa,
hunting and whip bang! Pfaffen jumped over the stick and stone, The
donkey bucks, grunzend ran the pig. You Feast of adolescent cruelty,
Verklungen long are you! Strictly was the time. As we loose mummery
getobt, since you have praised our joke salt; But when the truth we
Ernst said, since we were the hunters, hunted themselves. We wander
homeless, ostracized, and poor eating strange bread in distress and
harm. The Pfäfflein that our agitation was, you all still eat healthy
and old.

The Mönchlein, which tricks us by blood, you wohlgemut cups all again,
And cuts a apfelschälend itself swells And a drop of blood bescheidentlich,
Sun moans that "Würd'ge brothers, schauet here! The blut'ge Märtertum
we suffer," Vetter Hans X A nice person with whom the gedahlt luck,
fate has a dark heavy duty paid. fortunes favorite was the cousin
Hans, The life force me to completely darkened.

Often dacht 'ich, the cheek early bleached: In such a body that's easy
living! The key to the well-groomed beard, he's helped the rich and
the victory was slim Edelwuchs.

He rode and challenged and danced masterfully, War Fraun and girls of all
passion. He courted nimble. The young woman liked the Duke and the
devil came into play. The duke fell before Hans Vetter on knee: "Your
wife! I can not live without it!" This was the cousin Hans A comic word
And he's bespottet Weidlich here and there: "The Duke turns to the rights
it! The dead man's wife to ask! Ridiculous." The laughter was brought
behind the Duke cousins And Hans has been laughed to death. XI The knight
without fear and reproach in Pavia As I studied, I was there shown
the tapfre hero Bayard.

The "Knights without fear," who never geflohn, commanded the Welsh
garrison. After long verschollnen fashions he wore, he and his squire
exceeded solemnly.

The abgekommne Cortesi He stood tall and sighs': "The young people
are grossly "Contrary held the mirror of our He zücht'ger time heut'gen
independence. To be buried, he gave to understand, It is the last true
knight gehn. long, lean, dignified, with Fraun galant, this a bit funny
anzuschaun, Hob he forefinger when he scolded, as an incomparable
figure.

They greeted deep and whispered into the ear, the "knight without
reproach" was a goal. But that I be gespottet, Reut me hard, because,
Hutten , did not you score a goal like he? Ins gold evening he
zurückgeschaut - your eyes peered where the little gray morning. Your
ear hears through fog and night through the jubilation of victory
künft'gen battle. Mittagsglut How did you feels the beam, The little
mountain peaks touched yet.

Bayard saw the Entschwundene beautifies, Bayard, you joke with some
mocked! He was a fool of their own imagination - The future, however,
Hutten, you know? Who knows, you still experience the new world,
whether they like the fränk'schen Edelblut! Who knows, if not the goal,
you Drobe away goods of the earth, it's achieve, you hurt? Bayard, without
fear of reprimand and was Forgive! Reich my hand! We are a couple. We
are a couple driving knight, Bayard, And both are not suitable for
the present. XII Romfahrt Purchase wollt 'ich favor foreign Muse, The
crown of the old noble elocution. Latin turned hab' ich some year
and a Latin, the slim and dainty was. Now I was still on the rotunda
sehn as pilgrims to go to the Capitol. On the way I met some laurel
bush And Myrtenbusch and some cake, too. Gewölk schneid'ger and wind
and pine scent Will me better than the Welsh air.

The debris I saw the old Roman fortress of grandeur to serve as priests
of power. Entartet and verheuchelt since I saw the head of the Claudie
and Claudia. I saw a woman, to act with him, The man the "general church"
meant. I thought of Feiler Schreiber Scharnstein desecrated The Cicerone
eloquence. I saw you in this city Pfaff us without great art has to
fool, Did our fathers faith Ungläub'ger in the hands of a priest than
a gang. Say 'I find it short and classic, what I saw on the Tiber
electricity? Cloaca maxima, I am not pleased temple, nor monument.
Sehn despised My people! It can kill and burn to me the taste is hoping
to form 'And there I was bitter mouth I always continued. I gor the
blood, bile arose, I said: Now, Hutten, Schilt! else's kills you. Before
the new temple Petri mocked 'loud I: The Simon's has built with our
money, what should the parish since übermüt'ge with tin, and
Porticus statue?

We know who was here to rent: The insolent hell cheekier Fun! Bulls
in heraldry says: Hie has gehaust The Borgia lust, it's the devil
graust! Leo The tenth now sells the spirit, the caps on his red
circles! You malest, Raphael, to his luster? friend! Time it a brazen
Totentanz So the infallible not forget that he, like us, a poor sinner.
I went. With a rough description of the coal line Wall Vatican I: "In
this thousand chambers thrones the deceit! A German came to Rome
and was clever." XIII The Ablaßbude And, look, there are rolling the wheel
of time, we joined with the French speaking power in dispute. I screamed:
Husbands, goes to me by the hand: The Pope Ablaßbude will berannt!
buying gold and silver salvation, Sun is now on all markets for
sale.

The product is made by young and old, and wanted only the chute remains
poor cursed. The bag every turn! If it is empty, Sun pertly do it in our
warehouse! The rat 'ich dir, du heilsbedürft'ger man, do not drain
the labels can solve, we grasp at the sky unverwehrt!

Us is the bliss nothing gives me a rough spoke German in haste and
anger, it booms like a guard tower from the horn. yell like storm
response and Meergebraus: "Mr. Hutten, FASSET and räumet from" The Ghosts
XIV lies Zaubrer fist appeared at the court of Mainz, He loves the
Cardinals purple seems. overcast was pale and a room lit for the
visits of the ghost world.

The elector sat down. Him, I left. The pale magician awaited his winks.
Of course, the first question, because after the illustrious Bübin Helena.
He called the Leda child. It showed a bare foot and danced whimsically.
Gaukelspiel The blank, which I querulousness, raptured the infatuated
Pfaffentroß.

What the schiert Metze me?

Mr. necromancer, with edlern Are you dead is not known - "Who asks
you?" The emperor Constantin! He cried. A Purpurtragender appeared. I
ask Your Majesty, if you will, to the fact that the Pope ew'ge City gift?
"Yes," nodded the ghost. How? Where? And when? A fairy tale is that the
self-devised, it is fraud and the evidence I taut With sharp art, which
is called Criticam. You're a Pfaff spirit! To hell away!

Lies The Emperor disappeared before my word. XV The Hütlein It was in
Brussels in front of the house stands. The legend went: "The emperor rides
out!" Nor had I never the main young compatriots, we are the highest
office of the Reich trusts .

A noble horse is our time. It stomps. It neighed courageous. His nostril
steams. Whether he wisely reins and boldly take? Whether he's dealt with?
Whether it's throws and grind? As poets, we are superstitious, thought
'I am an oracle to me quickly: For those Kaiser applies on and on the
first floor of his mouth entfallne! He came. A Hütlein he wore, my
faith, with heron feathers, funkelnagelneu! The Sky makes' a facial
mißvergnügt himself questioningly: Regn 'me or not? Clapping now drops
to the pavement hard, Die young forehead submit' And he folds in
lugte emergence to the clouds on. "My old Hütlein!" he cried, "Kämmrer,
run!"

I said to myself: This is not good! His first call went to the old
hat. XVI The Child O Mainz in Mainz, you lust'ger seat, you trust
the city, The Cottage Spring often has belobet! The Mainzer Albrecht
was honestly hold me And offered me some drink in pure gold. He
listened to my jokes like bold, I called him my friend and my Lord. I
mocked before his Ohre brash, he is not angry, he is a free spirit, but
in the hour of temptation, oh, the spirit was willing and the flesh
was weak. I felt loyal to him until he told me breached.

Where the living friend, Hutten ever left? The Kanzelei of Rome wrote
letters to Letter, To me Albrechtsburg no longer be called. Luther was
outlawed and banned ... I lived by the thumb and touches' in the country.
A faithful dog, I stole back to the Mainzer umschlich me and I
stopped him. I look 'him into the chamber, he sat at the banquet,
stranger country parsons, he offered the cup. Rumors went: with Luther's
was over, The eingetan and was repealed. Welschen The long noses
nodded fine And rejoiced at their Schelmerein. He smiled! I gave
it a stab - My Edelfalke, God forbid you! Ade, I Albrecht, verlorner my
lair ... I slipped saddens me to the crown continues, Where once when I
cup Klang night with some funny Gesellen durchgelacht. Here ' I have
a mug of beer, the host child joined to me.

Mägdlein That, my 'I was in fourth year, I drove him through the ring-blonde
hair: Tell me your Nachtgebetlein how's you know! The child began to:
" God the Father, Son and Spirit, Your name be praised!

Hüt us three: Before Wassernot and fire and war cries! The boatmen
grace you in night and storm! Be brother Martins and solid castle
tower! Umschleicht him with the dagger a murderer wild, Sun deck
him, Lord, with your strong shield And your suffering famine-free, So you
send him by Thy ravens bread! "Who taught you, my child, this prayer -"
The mother's called me to pray early and late. " Now my 'I, however,
that no harm is done to the man, in Mainz for a child kneels. XVII The
Mainzer spits you made me a Kämmerlein ready, however, avoided the
sleeping inside me a long time. I heard how the patch sounded dull: The
Mainzer Scharwach with severe progressive course. heimelt Mich's
from the old times, because often this army Span prospered me, When
I nightly from übermocht tankard, with them in the street clanging
challenged. Versuchte men's from swallowing and hand, advertised
rings in high - and low land.

I am listening 'in the darkness and to me seemed clear: The skewers
were singing something to himself,. An old Bierbaß gemütlich sang
before and toes basses growled after the chorus: "The pure word they
should be standardized and this does not Thanks yet Löhnung han. is
addressed to the prince of this world, he does us nothing, as he Saur
also arises - "I, of the Mainz auferbaut spears, sang with a dark
chamber in my loud:" So we really fear is not too , because our God is
a strong defense. "XVIII The gesture 's was in the crown, one that I
found myself in the my first fuzz knew. The Ott of Gemmingen. He pushed
through the session and moved next to me. "He da!" Utz! Dear Utz! What
became of you? Are you at the court of Mainz a large animal? Utriusque
Juris Doctor Are you? The Emperor's Scribe or advice on this?

No? Well, what are you doing? Des Hofgerichts? "I said, but dry: I
am nothing. Mustered Now 'he exhausted my robe, the hollow cheeks, but
the Magre hand." One of you are: Siech! The talk your face! "I
thought I'm healed and it is not. Since stretches' the finger and
moved it so clean around the throats cut. ... You advise? He nodded.
Drobe hab 'I laughed.

Then hab' I thought the gesture. seems unfortunate the joyful child
in the world your existence, Hutten - drum's consumption as a hero!
What the boldest man boobs zagt, This is from you in free lust dared!
XIX misunderstanding The father spoke to me with quiet scorn: "Do
you's, I build a press, son!" (They call the press there in Franconia,
what other place is called wine.)'s voice and verritt. I without much
fuss Berief the masters of black art of guilt. As was set, printed, pressed
, shot thousands of leaves flew round verweht.

On a ward which Cajetan threatened: "Beat, pious people, the legate dead!"
Here stood: "And würd 'ich drüber country away, I Huttenstrasse
break through, I've dared!" And then: "The harsh air of freedom blows, I
Hutten Sporn 'and stachle early and late." It was a hot and a zorn'ger
wine I am pressed Steckelbergerrain. XX Jacta est alea After I did my
big hit, As the father began to scold at me: "You join in feud with
Rome? Are you great?'s Surprised me, Ulrich, like the end! Poet was bad
and even sounds pathetic, but heretic is still far a schlimmrer sound!
Erlebt 'I could not! One son and eight in Bann, The shame my gray hair
makes! Sun, Ulrich, mehrst you shine your tribe? Now go half in rags,
and soon are you's all over, what will you, if our house is falling
apart, what will you on any further the world?

If only you and woodblock Kupferstich the laurel wear - what else
will you? you smile? You forgave the mouth to joke? I knew 'it is not:
you have a bad heart. "The father's dark and looked Dreiner, With tears
begged the pious Mütterlein:" My sweet Ulrich, let the bad game!

"I gave the answer : No! The cube fell. My Mütterlein, keeps me nice and
happy!

Keep me warm as the evening star! You offend me, father, not so tart you
are! Here is a heart, the good opinion. offended thee my abgebraucht garb,
So let me come out of the house band, I was a stranger to you! You stay
in peace, my good, you share it with my brother. Ärgre And, father,
you are not at bay, the only portrait of me in the forehead umflicht! I
myself wear special pomp and splendor in the life of a simple wreath of
thorns. Wozu laurel ? That makes no sense. Everyone knows that I'm Hutten,
neither the time nor death, nor even spell from eight hearts of his
people can distinguish! Steckel castle mountain, the height looks,
beautiful hills of Franconia umblaut rings, the bridge down ! Open
your door to me, I reit 'from you for the last time out. Blas, towers,
blow me a brave piece, I take into battle and not come back. XXI The
gemstone gen Zurich When I rode in the evening sham, I cried from: "You
pretty jewel!"

When Master Zwingli lived is not bad, he covered my table with a pike.

They each took a torch out of the carrier's bag, lighted it, and marched
bravely on. The path led along the Kelung river, through tall grass.
They were not sure where it led to, but thought it wise to follow the
river; they would surely come to Kelung some time. Mackay was ahead, A
Hoa right at his heels, and behind them the basketbearer. At a sudden
turn in the path A Hoa gave a shout of warning, and the next instant,
a band of robbers leaped from the long reeds and grass, and brandished
their spears in the travelers' faces. The torchlight shone on their
fierce evil eyes and their long knives, making a horrible picture. The
young Canadian Scot did not flinch for a second. He looked the wild
leader straight in the face.

"We have no money, so you cannot rob us," he said steadily, "and you
must let us pass at once. I am a teacher and--"

"A TEACHER!" he was interrupted by a dismayed exclamation from several
of the wild band. "A teacher!" As if with one accord they turned and
fled into the darkness. For even a highwayman in China respects a man
of learning. The travelers went on again, with something of relief and
something of the exultation that youth feels in having faced danger. But
a second trouble was upon them. One of those terrible storms that still
raged occasionally had been brewing all evening, and now it opened its
artillery. Great howling gusts came down from the mountain, carrying
sheets of driving rain. Their torches went out like matches, and they
were left to stagger along in the black darkness. What were they to do?
They could not go back. They could not stay there. They scarcely dared
go on. For they did not know the way, and any moment a fresh blast of
wind or a misstep might hurl them into the river. But they decided that
they must go on, and on they went, stumbling, slipping, sprawling, and
falling outright. Now there would be an exclamation from Mackay as he
sank to the knees in the mud of a rice-field, now a groan from A Hoa as
he fell over a boulder and bruised and scratched himself, and oftenest
a yell from the poor coolie, as he slipped, baskets and all, into some
rocky crevice, and was sure he was tumbling into the river; but they
staggered on, Mackay secure in his faith in God. His Father knew and
his Father would keep him safely. And behind him came brave young A
Hoa, buoyed up by his new growing faith, and learning the lesson that
sometimes the Captain asks his soldier to march into hard encounters,
but that the soldier must never flinch.

The "everlasting arms" were around them, for by midnight they reached
Kelung. They were drenched, breathless, and worn out, and they spent the
night in a damp hovel, glad of any shelter from the wind and rain.

But the next morning, young soldier A Hoa had a fiercer battle to fight
than any with robbers or storms. As soon as the city was astir, Mackay
and he went out to find a good place to preach. They passed down the
main thoroughfare, and everywhere they attracted attention. Cries of
"Ugly barbarian!" and oftenest "Black-bearded barbarian" were heard
on all sides. A Hoa was known in Kelung and contempt and ridicule was
heaped upon him by his old college acquaintances. He was consorting
with the barbarian! He was a friend of this foreigner! They poured more
insults upon him than they did upon the barbarian himself. Some took
the stranger as a joke, and laughed and made funny remarks upon his
appearance. Here and there an old woman, peeping through the doorway,
would utter a loud cackling laugh, and pointing a wizened finger at the
missionary would cry: "Eh, eh, look at him! Tee hee! He's got a wash
basin on for a hat!" A Hoa was distressed at these remarks, but Mackay
was highly amused.

"We're drawing a crowd, anyway," he remarked cheerfully, "and that's
what we want."

Soon they came to an open square in front of a heathen temple. The
building had several large stone steps leading up to the door. Mackay
mounted them and stood facing the buzzing crowd, with A Hoa at his side.
They started a hymn.

All people that on earth do dwell Sing to the Lord with cheerful voice.

The open square in front of them began to fill rapidly. The people
jostled each other in their endeavors to get a view of the barbarian.
Every one was curious, but every one was angry and indignant, so
sometimes the sound of the singing was lost in the shouts of derision.

When the hymn was finished, Mackay had a sudden inspiration. "They
will surely listen to one of their own people," he said to himself, and
turned to A Hoa.

"Speak to them," he said. "Tell them about the true God."

That was a hard moment for the young convert. He had been a Christian
only a few months and had never yet spoken in public for Christ. He
looked desperately over the sea of mocking faces beneath him. He opened
his mouth, as though to speak, and hesitated. Just then came a rough
and bitter taunt from one of his old companions. It was too much. A Hoa
turned away and hung his head.

The young missionary said nothing. But he did the very wisest thing
he could have done. He had some time before taught A Hoa a grand old
Scottish paraphrase, and they had often sung it together:

I'm not ashamed to own my Lord Or to defend his cause, Maintain the
glory of his cross And honor all his laws.

Mackay's voice, loud and clear, burst into this fine old hymn. A Hoa
raised his head. He joined in the hymn and sang it to the end. It put
mettle into him. It was the battle-song that brought back the young
recruit's courage. Almost before the last note sounded he began to
speak. His voice rang out bold and unafraid over the crowd of angry
heathen.

"I am a Christian!" he said distinctly. "I worship the true God. I
cannot worship idols," with a gesture toward the temple door, "that rats
can destroy. I am not afraid. I love Jesus. He is my Savior and Friend."

No, A Hoa was not "ashamed" any more. His testing time had come, and he
had not failed after all. And his brave, true words sent a thrill of joy
through the more seasoned soldier at his side.

That was not the only difficult situation he met on that journey.
The two soldiers of the cross had many trials, but the thrill of that
victory before the Kelung temple never left them.

When they returned to Tamsui they held daily services in their house,
and A Hoa often spoke to the people who gathered there.

One Sunday they noticed an old woman present, who had come down the
river in a boat. Women as a rule did not come out to the meetings, but
this old lady continued to come every Sunday. She showed great interest
in the missionary's words, and, at the close of one meeting, he spoke to
her. She told him she was a poor widow, that her name was Thah-so, and
that she had come down the river from Go-ko-khi to hear him preach.
Then she added, "I have passed through many trials in this world, and my
idols never gave me any comfort." Then her eyes shone, "But I like your
teaching very much," she went on. "I believe the God you tell about will
give me peace.. I will come again, and bring others."

Next Sunday she was there with several other women. And after that
she came every Sunday, bringing more each time, until at last a whole
boat-load would come down to the service.

These people were so interested that they asked the missionary if
he would not visit them. So one day he and A Hoa boarded one of the
queer-looking flat-bottomed river-boats and were pulled up the rapids
to Go ko-khi. Every village in Formosa had its headman, who is virtually
the ruler of the place. When the boat landed, many of the villagers were
at the shore to meet their visitors and took them at once to their
mayor's house, the best building in the village. Tan Paugh, a fine, big,
powerfully-built man, received them cordially. He frankly declared
that he was tired and sick of idols and wanted to hear more of this new
religion. An empty granary was obtained for both church and home, and
the missionary and his assistant took up their quarters there, and for
several months they remained, preaching and teaching the Bible either in
Go-ho-khi, or in the lovely surrounding valleys.


CHAPTER VI. THE GREAT KAI BOK-SU

The missionary was now becoming a familiar figure both in Tamsui and in
the surrounding country. By many he was loved, by all he was respected,
but by a large number he was bitterly hated. The scholars continued
his worst enemies. They could never forgive him for beating them so
completely in argument, in the days when A Hoa was striving for the
light, and their hatred increased as they saw other scholars becoming
Christians under his teaching. There was something about him, however,
that compelled their respect and even their admiration. Wherever they
met him--on the street, by their temples, or on the country roads--he
bore himself in such a way as to make them confess that he was their
superior both in ability and knowledge.

These Chinese literati had a custom which Mackay found very interesting.
One proud scholar marching down the street and scarcely noticing the
obsequious bows of his inferiors, would meet another equally proud
scholar. Each would salute the other in an exceedingly grand manner, and
then one would spin off a quotation from the writings of Confucius or
some other Chinese sage and say, "Now tell me where that is found."
And scholar number two had to ransack his brains to remember where the
saying was found, or else confess himself beaten. Mackay thought it
might be a good habit for the graduates of his own alma mater across the
wide sea to adopt. He wondered what some of his old college chums would
think, if, when he got back to Canada, he should buttonhole one on the
street some day, recite a quotation from Shakespeare or Macaulay, and
demand from his friend where it could be found. He had a suspicion that
the old friend would be afraid that the Oriental sun had touched George
Mackay's brain.

Nevertheless he thought the custom one he could turn to good account,
and before long he was trying it himself. He had such a wonderful memory
that he never forgot anything he had once read. So the scholars of
north Formosa soon discovered, again to their humiliation, that this Kai
Bok-su of Tamsui could beat them at their own game. They did not care
how much he might profess to know of writers and lands beyond China.
Such were only barbarians anyway. But when, right before a crowd,
he would display a surer knowledge of the Chinese classics than they
themselves, they began not only to respect but to fear him. It was
no use trying to humiliate him with a quotation. With his bright eyes
flashing, he would tell, without a moment's hesitation, where it
was found and come back at the questioner swiftly with another, most
probably one long forgotten, and reel it off as though he had studied
Chinese all his life.

He was a wonderful man certainly, they all agreed, and one whom it was
not safe to oppose. The common people liked him better every day. He was
so tactful, so kind, and always so careful not to arouse the
prejudice of the heathen. He was extremely wise in dealing with their
superstitions. No matter how absurd or childish They might be, he never
ridiculed them, but only strove to show the people how much happier they
might be if they believed in God as their Father and in Jesus Christ
as their Savior. He never made light of anything sacred to the Chinese
mind, but always tried to take whatever germ of good he could find
in their religion, and lead on from it to the greater good found in
Christianity. He discovered that the ancestral worship made the younger
people kind and respectful to older folk, and he saw that Chinese
children reverenced their parents and elders in a way that he felt many
of his young friends across the sea would do well to copy.

One day when he and A Hoa were out on a preaching tour, the wise Kai
Bok-su made use of this respect for parents in quieting a mob. He and
his comrade were standing side by side on the steps of a heathen temple
as they had done at Kelung. The angry crowd was scowling and muttering,
ready to throw stones as soon as the preacher uttered a word. Mackay
knew this, and when they had sung a hymn and the people waited, ready
for a riot, his voice rang out clear and steady, repeating the fifth
commandment "Honor thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long
upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee." A silence fell over
the muttering crowd, and an old heathen whose cue was white and whose
aged hands trembled on the top of his staff, nodded his head and said,
"That is heavenly doctrine." The people were surprised and disarmed. If
the black-bearded barbarian taught such truths as this, he surely was
not so very wicked after all. And so they listened attentively as he
went on to show that they had all one great Father, even God.

He sometimes found it rather a task to treat with respect that which the
Chinese held sacred. Especially was this so when he discovered to his
amusement and to some carefully concealed disgust, that in the Chinese
family the pig was looked upon with affection, and as a young naval
officer, who visited Mackay remarked, "was treated like a gentleman."

Every Chinese house of any size was made up of three buildings joined
together so as to make three sides of an enclosure. This space was
called a court, and a door led from it to another next the street. In
this outer yard pigs and fowl were always to be found. Whenever the
missionary dropped in at a home, mother pig and all the little pigs
often followed him inside the house, quite like members of the family.
Every one was always glad to see Kai Bok-su, pigs and all, and as soon
as he appeared the order was given--"Infuse tea." And when the little
handleless cups of clear brown liquid were passed around and they all
drank and chatted, Mrs. Pig and her children strolled about as welcome
as the guest.

The Chinese would allow no one to hurt their pigs, either. One day as
Mackay sat in his rooms facing the river, battling with some new
Chinese characters, he heard a great hubbub coming up the street. The
threatening mobs that used to surround his house had long ago ceased to
trouble him. He arose in some surprise and went to the door to see what
was the matter. A very unusual sight for Tamsui met his gaze. Coming
up the street at a wild run were some half-dozen English sailors, their
loose blue blouses and trousers flapping madly. They were evidently from
a ship which Mackay had seen lying in the harbor that morning.

"Give us a gun!" roared the foremost as soon as he saw the missionary.

Mackay did not possess a gun, and would not have given the enraged
bluejacket one had he owned a dozen. But the Chinese mob, roaring with
fury, were coming up the street after the men and he swiftly pointed out
a narrow alley that led down to the river. "Run down there!" he shouted
to the sailors. "You can get to your boats before they find you."

They were gone in an instant, and the next moment the crowd of
pursuers were storming about the door demanding whither the enemy had
disappeared.

"What is all this disturbance about?" demanded Kai Bok-su calmly, glad
of an opportunity to gain time for the fleeing sailors.

The aggrieved Chinese gathered about him, each telling the story as
loud as his voice would permit. Those barbarians of the sea had come
swaggering along the streets waving their big sticks. And they had
dared--yes actually DARED--to hit the pet pigs belonging to every house
as they passed. The poor pigs who lay sunning themselves at the door!

This was indeed a serious offense. Mackay could picture the rollicking
sailor-lads gaily whacking the lazy porkers with their canes as they
passed, happily unconscious of the trouble they were raising. But there
was no amusement in Kai Bok-su's grave face. He spoke kindly, and
soothingly, and promised that if the offenders misbehaved again he would
complain to the authorities. That made it all right. Heathen though they
were, they knew Kai Bok-su's promise would not be broken, and away they
went quite satisfied.

One day he learned, quite by accident, a new and very useful way of
helping his people. He and A Hoa and several other young men who had
become Christians, went on a missionary tour to Tek-chham, a large city
which he had visited once before.

On the day they left the place, Kai Boksu's preaching had drawn such
crowds that the authorities of the city became afraid of him. And
when the little party left, a dozen soldiers were sent to follow the
dangerous barbarian and his students and see that they did not bewitch
the people on the road.

The soldiers tramped along after the missionary party, and with his
usual ability to make use of any situation, Mackay stepped back and
chatted with his spies. He found one poor fellow in agony with the
toothache. This malady was very common in north Formosa, partly owing
to the habit of chewing the betel-nut. He examined the aching tooth and
found it badly decayed. "There is a worm in it," the soldier said,
for the Formosan doctors had taught the people this was the cause of
toothache.

Mackay had no forceps, but he knew how to pull a tooth, and he was not
the sort to be daunted by the lack of tools. He got a piece of hard
wood, whittled it into shape and with it pried out the tooth. The
relief from pain was so great that the soldier almost wept for joy and
overwhelmed the tooth-puller with gratitude. And for the remainder of
the journey the guards sent to spy on the missionary's doings were his
warmest friends.

After this, dentistry became a part of this many-sided missionary's
work. He went to a native blacksmith and had a pair of forceps hammered
out of iron. It was a rather clumsy instrument, but it proved of great
value, and later he sent for a complete set of the best instruments made
in New York.

So with forceps in one hand and the Bible in the other, Mackay found
himself doubly equipped. To his right to the ground getretnen sake, we
march in kriegrischem this green before leveling your city without some
Vorsaz a hostility against you, except what we, irritated by your obstinacy,
a zeal to preserve mildthätiger to "this child, in our conscience nöthiget.
Weigert you do not create a duty to reimburse its undeniable that
Seyde guilty, which she is entitled to demand, nemlich, this young
prince, so should our arms, like a bemaulkorbten Bears, to ensure
that all prohibited Seyn insult, the wickedness our canons against
the invulnerable clouds of heaven are omitted, and with a common
peaceful and undisturbed Rükzug with unused and undamaged Schwerdt
helmets, we want this Muthig carry blood back home, what we are
against your walls auszuspeyen had come, and your wives, children
and you leave in peace.

Should you, however, so thöricht Seyn, this offer of auszuschlagen our
clients, so you is not that these old walls you against our war
Envoy protect, even though all those Englishmen with their power
in their rough radius would be stored .

Tell us, we want your city on behalf of that for which we ask you,
as their Lord, or are we supposed to attack the character, and in blood
wattend revoke our property? Citizens. Our answer is short: we are
the King of England Unterthanen; for him and by virtue of its right, we
have this city inne. King John. erkennet then euern Sun King, and let
me. citizens. We can not, that it beweißt that he is king , we want
to prove as faithful Unterthanen so long but this did not happen Seyn
will be our Thore against the whole world will remain locked. King
John. Beweißt Crone is not the King of England? And if this is not
enough, so I bring you witnesses, zweymal fifteen thousand hearts full
of English blood - Faulconbridge. (Sons of whores, and others.) King
John. The are our rights with their lives to prove. King Philip. And
so many, and as good as those of blood - Faulconbridge. (The sons of
whores also counted.) King Philip. standing here Fordrung into his face
to contradict each other. citizens. bite it off have become, what the
law is excellent, we believe the benefits for the right of beyden back.
King John. So then God forgive the sins of the souls of all, the
terrible proof of our royal title, nor the Abendthau eh will fall into
their eternal home fled Seyn be!

King Philip. Amen Amen! - For horses, her knight, to arms!
A stream broke
out up in the hill behind and one morning he awoke to find a cascade
tumbling into his kitchen, and rushing across the floor out into the
river beyond. And still it poured and the wind blew and everything was
damp and cold and dreary.

He caught an occasional glimpse of snow, only a very far-off view, for
it lay away up on the top of a mountain, but it made his heart long for
just one breath of good dry Canadian air, just one whiff of the keen,
cutting frost.

But Kai Bok-su was not the sort to spend these dismal days repining.
Indeed he had no time, even had he been so inclined. His work filled
up every minute of every rainy day and hours of the drenched night. If
there was no sunshine outside there was plenty in his brave heart, and A
Hoa's whole nature radiated brightness.

And there were many reasons for being happy after all. On the second
Sabbath of February, 1873, just one year after his arrival in Tamsui,
the missionary announced, at the close of one of his Sabbath services,
that he would receive a number into the Christian church. There was
instantly a commotion among the heathen who were in the house, and yells
and jeers from those crowding about the door outside.

"We'll stop him," they shouted. "Let us beat the converts," was another
cry.

But Mackay went quietly on with the beautiful ceremony in spite of the
disturbance. Five young men, with A Hoa at their head, came and were
baptized into the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.


When the next Sabbath came these five with their missionary sat down for
the first time to partake of the Lord's Supper. It was a very impressive
ceremony. One young fellow broke down, declaring he was not worthy.
Mackay took him alone into his little room and they prayed together, and
the young man came out to the Lord's Supper comforted, knowing that all
might be worthy in Jesus Christ.

Spring came at last, bright and clear, and Mackay announced to A Hoa
that they must go up the river and visit their friends at Goko-khi. The
two did not go alone this time. Three other young men who wanted to be
missionaries were now spending their days with their teacher, learning
with A Hoa how to preach the gospel. So it was quite a little band
of disciples that walked along the river bank up to Go-ko-khi. Mackay
preached at all the villages along the route, and visited the homes of
Christians.

One day, as they passed a yamen or Chinese court-house where a mandarin
was trying some cases, they stepped in to see what was going on. At
one end of the room sat the mandarin who was judge. He was dressed in
magnificent silks and looked down very haughtily upon the lesser people
and the retinue of servants who were gathered about him. On either side
of the room stood a row of constables and near them the executioners.
The rest of the room was filled with friends of the people on trial and
by the rabble from the street. The missionaries mixed with the former
and stood watching proceedings. There were no lawyers, no jury. The
mandarin's decision was law.

The first case was one of theft. Whether the man had really committed
the crime or not was a question freely discussed among the onlookers
around Mackay. But there seemed no doubt as to his punishment being
swift and heavy. "He has not paid the mandarin," a friend explained to
the missionary. "He will be punished."

"The mandarin eats cash," remarked another with a shrug. It was a saying
to which Mackay had become accustomed. For it was one of the shameless
proverbs of poor, oppressed Formosa.

The case was soon finished. Nothing was definitely proven against the
man. But the mandarin pronounced the sentence of death. The victim
was hurried out, shrieking his innocence, and praying for mercy. Case
followed case, each one becoming more revolting than the last to the
eyes of the young man accustomed to British justice. Imprisonment and
torture were meted out to prisoners, and even witnesses were laid hold
of and beaten on the face by the executioners if their tale did not suit
the mandarin. Men who were plainly guilty but Who had given their judge
a liberal bribe were let off, while innocent men were made to pay heavy
fines or were thrown into prison. The young missionary went out and
on his way sickened by the sights he had witnessed. And as he went,
he raised his eyes to heaven and prayed fervently that he might be a
faithful preacher of the gospel, and that one day Formosa would be a
Christian land and injustice and oppression be done away.


The next scene was a happier one. There was an earnest little band of
Christians in Go-ko-khi, and two of the young people were about to be
married. It was the first Christian marriage in the place and Kai Bok-su
was called upon to officiate. There was a great deal of opposition
raised among the heathen, but after seeing the ceremony, they all voted
a Christian wedding everything that was beautiful and good.


CHAPTER VII. BESIEGING HEAD-HUNTERS

When they returned from their trip, Mackay and A Hoa with the assistance
of some of their Christian friends set about looking for a new house in
a more wholesome district. It was much easier for the missionary to rent
a place now, and he managed to secure a comfortable home upon the bluff
above the town. It was a dryer situation and much more healthful. Here
one room was used as a study and every morning when not away on a tour a
party of young men gathered in it for lessons. Sometimes, what with
traveling, preaching, training his students, visiting the sick, and
pulling teeth, Mackay had scarcely time to eat, and very little to
sleep. But always as he came and went on his travels, his eyes would
wander to the mountains where the savages lived, and with all his heart
he would wish that he might visit them also.

His Chinese friends held up their hands in dismay when he broached the
subject. To the mountains where the Chhi-hoan lived! Did Kai Bok-su not
know that every man of them was a practised head-hunter, and that behind
every rock and tree and in the darkness of the forests they lay in wait
for any one who went beyond the settled districts? Prometheus. The circle,
which met my effectiveness! Nothing drüber anything and nothing! -
What do those stars up there for a right to me, That they begaffen me?
Epimetheus. You stand alone! Your Eigensinn misjudges the bliss, When
the gods, you Deinigen and the world and heaven, all Of all, deeply
felt whole. Prometheus. I know this, I ask, my dear brother's drift as
you can, and let me [from Epimetheus.] Prometheus. Here are my world,
my All! Here I feel myself, here all my desires in physical
Gestalten.

My spirit so thousands of times and shared throughout my taxes in
children. [Minerva comes.] Prometheus. you dare to make my goddess?
Wagest to thy father's enemy to come? Minerva. I honor my father,
And love thee, Prometheus! Prometheus. And you're my mind, what he
himself is from the beginning I am If you say the sky was light!
Always as if my soul speaks to itself, you have opened And mitgeborne
Harmonieen In their explanations of itself: Those were your words.
So I was even not even a deity, and said, When I mentioned to speak, And
I mentioned a deity speak the language myself And so with you and
me So, so dearly my love you forever! Minerva. And I present to you
forever! Prometheus.

How sweet Dämmerschein The sun weggeschiednen There heraufschwimmt
From dark Caucasus and my soul is surrounded with Wonneruh, Absent
also ever present in me, my forces have evolved with each breath of
air in your sky. And what an ambitious law, the proud residents of
the Olympus on my strength You are my, and my usage is. not been a kick
to the top of the Gods more! for them? Am I for it? Minerva. Thus, the
mentioned power. Prometheus.

I think that goddess, and also am also powerful. - Rest! - Have you seen
me not in itself often chose bondage bear the burden, which they in
solemn seriousness appealed to my shoulders? Yeah, I work not completed,
each Tagwerker on her behest, Because I thought you saw the previous
ones, the Future In the present, and their management, their bid be
primordial, Uneigennützge wisdom? Minerva. You used to value the
freedom to be.

Prometheus. and wants to be a lot not with the thunder bird swap And
Gentlemen, I proudly flashes in slave mouth pack. What are they ?
What I? Minerva. Your hatred is unjust! The gods fell to the duration
and lots of power and wisdom and love. Prometheus. Did you all alone
But not me daure like them. We are all forever! - I start erinnr I do
not have to end And I do not see the occupation end. So, I am forever,
because I am! - And Wisdom - [it to the portraits around.] Look at this
face! If you are not my fingers pronounced? And this Gulf Power Asks
allanfallenden The opposite danger around. [Stay at a female picture
pillar stand.] And you, Pandora, Sacred Vessel of all gifts, the delight
is in the wide sky, On the infinite earth, everything that I ever
refreshed feeling of delight, What in the shadow refreshing coolness
I gushed, The sun will ever love springtime delight of the sea Ever
tepid wave of tenderness Nestled my bosom, And what I ever pure sky
shine And tasted Seelenruhgenuß - The all all - - my Pandora!

Minerva. entboten Jupiter has sent you, all of you to give life, if you
were hearing his application. Prometheus. That was the only what made
me remember. Solo - I should be his servant, and up there we all
recognize the power of Donnrers? No! They may be linked from here its
lifelessness, but you are free, And I feel their freedom!

Minerva. And they shall live! The fate is not the gods, to give
life and take; Come, I lead you to source of all life, The Jupiter
us not close, they should live, and through you! Prometheus. Through you,
oh my goddess, life, feel free, life! - Your joy is your thanks be!
Second act on Olympus [Jupiter. Mercury.] Mercury. Greuel - Father
Jupiter - high treason! Minerva, thy daughter, to allow the rebels, he
has opened the source of life and its Lettner yard, His world of sound
around him revived.
But Mackay was all for pushing forward, and Captain Bax was no less
eager. So they spent a night in the forest and the next day marched on
up another and higher range. As they journeyed, the travelers could not
but burst into exclamations of delight at the loveliness about them.
Behind those great trees and in those tangles of vines might lurk the
head-hunters, but for all that the beauty of the place made them forget
the dangers. The great banyan trees whose branches came down and took
root in the earth, making a wonderful round leafy tent, grew on every
side. Camphor trees towered far above them and then spread out great
branches sixty or seventy feet from the ground. Then there was the
rattan creeping out over the tops of the other trees and making a thick
canopy through which the hot tropical sun-rays could not penetrate.

 And the flowers! Sometimes Mackay and Bax would stand amazed at
their beauty. They came one afternoon to an open glade in the cool
green dimness of the forest. On all sides the stately tree-ferns rose up
thirty or forty feet above them, and underneath grew a tangle of lovely
green undergrowth.

And upon this green carpet it seemed to their dazzled eyes that
thousands of butterflies of the loveliest form and color had just
alighted. And not only butterflies, but birds and huge insects and all
sorts of winged creatures, pink and gold and green and scarlet and blue,
and all variegated hues. But the lovely things sat motionless, sending
out such a delightful perfume that there could be no doubt that they
were flowers,--the wonderful orchids of Formosa! Mackay was a keen
scientist, always highly interested in botany, and he was charmed with
this sight. There were many such in the forest, and often he would stop
spellbound before a blaze of flowers hanging from tree or vine or shrub.
Then he would look up at the tangled growths of the bamboo, the palm,
and the elegant tree-fern, standing there all silent and beautiful, and
he would be struck by the harmony between God's work and Word. "I can't
keep from studying the flora of Formosa," he said to Captain Bax. "What
missionary would not be a better man, the bearer of a richer gospel,
what convert would not be a more enduring Christian from becoming
acquainted with such wonderful works of the Creator?"

At last they stood on the summit of the second range and saw before them
still more mountains, clothed from summit to base with trees. They were
now right in savage territory and their guide clambered out upon a spur
of rock and announced that there was a party of head-hunters in the
valley below. He gave a long halloo. From away down in the valley came
an answering call, ringing through the forest. Then far down through the
thicket Mackay's sharp eyes descried the party coming up to meet them.
Just then their own guide gave the signal to move on, and the missionary
and Captain Bax walked down the hill--the first white men who had ever
come out to meet those savages.

Half-way down the slope the two parties came face to face. The
head-hunters were a wild, uncouth-looking company, armed to the teeth.
They all carried guns, spears, and knives and some had also bows and
arrows slung over their backs. Their faces were hideously tattooed in a
regular pattern, while they wore no more clothes than were necessary.
A sort of sack of coarse linen with holes in the sides for their arms,
served as the chief garment, and generally the only one. Every one wore
a broad belt of woven rattan in which was stuck his crooked pointed
knife. Some of the younger men had their coats ornamented with bright
red and blue threads woven into the texture. They had brass rings on
their arms and legs too, and even sported big earrings. These were
ugly looking things made of bamboo sticks. The head-hunters were all
barefooted, but most of them wore caps--queer-looking things, made of
rattan. From many of them hung bits of skin of the boar or other wild
animals they had killed. They stood staring suspiciously at the two
strangers. Never before had they seen a white man, and the appearance of
the naval officer and the missionary, so different from themselves, and
yet so different from their hated enemies, the Chinese, filled them with
amazement and a good deal of suspicion. After a little talk with the
guides, however, the visitors were allowed to pass on. As soon as they
began to move, the savages fell into line behind them and followed
closely. The two white men, walking calmly onward, could not help
thinking how easy it would be for one of those fierce-looking tattooed
braves to win applause by springing upon both of them and carrying their
heads in triumph to the next village.

As they came down farther into the valley, they passed the place where
the savages had their camp. Here naked children and tattooed women
crept out of the dense woods to stare at the queer-looking Chinamen who
had white faces and wore no cue.

Fourth Scene. (Hot Track and Dowglas to the former.) Hot Track. My uncle
is back again Sezt the Lord of Westmorland in Freyheit. Uncle, giebt
what's new? Worcester. The king is determined to be arriving at a
meeting to leave. Dowglas. So we want to him by the Lord of
Westmorland call out. Hot-Track. Dowglas Lord, go and tell him das
Dowglas. I want, and with pleasure. (Dowglas geht ab.) Worcester. The
King did not seem inclined to forgive. Hot-Track. Batet about her? The
God prevent! Worcester. I told him quite lenient by our act, by its
gebrochnen oath, and he knew no better help than that his perjury
by a zweyten läugnete.

He calls us rebels, Verräther, and threatened trozig us after the earlier
sharpness to punish. (Dowglas comes back.) Dowglas. Armed you, Milord,
armed you, I have a Brave King Henry Ausfordrung rise in the teeth;
Westmorland, who was being held hostage here, it contributes to
him, and he can now no different than they quickly get back again.

Worcester. The Prince of Wales came out before the king, and invited
you to Zweykampf out nephew. Hot-Track. Wollte the sky, we would trade
beyde out alone, and no one today would bring short Athem, than I
and Harry Monmouth! Tell me, tell me how he spoke of me? That he
disdainfully?

Vernon. No, on my soul! In my life heard 'I do not bescheidnere lenge, a
brother of the others could not politely ask if it is a mere exercise
weapons, in order to play a knight would thun. He testified all
respect to you that a man can call, raise euern Werth with a
princely tongue, and spoke of euern merits as a chronicle, and what in
the That a sign of a princely Gemüths was that he spoke with Schaamröthe
of himself, circuitry and its evil was admitted with a youth decency,
which seemed to prove that his soul better than the other masterful
Seyn could when he wanted.

Here he held inn, but let me tell the world if it the envy of this
day to survive, so England has never been a better hope of obsessed,
so much the Ausschweiffungen darkened his youth they have.

     Hot-Track. Cousin, I think you're
     Thorheiten in his love, and I've never heard of a prince, the
wildness ausgelassenste so far had.

But he sey what he wants, eh night it is, I want him as a soldier with
a hug bewillkommen that he is under my courtesy will shrivel.

Zun weapons hurtig! And her Cameraden, and friends, even considering
what you have to have tuna, since I know the gift of eloquence is not,
not geschikte am, your blood by my response to erhizen. Fifth Scene. (A
messenger to the former.) messenger.

Milord, here are letters for Eu. Graces. Hot-Track. IZT I can not
read them. O my friends, we have a short time to live, and this short
time of one ignoble minutes to waste, would be too long.

We survive this day, so we live to kings to come, we die, it's not a
pretty death, if kings must die with us? (A messenger else.) Messenger.
Gracious Lord, the King is in the suit. Hot track. I thank him that he
had me in my Mährchen interrupts, because talking is not my thing.

Only Diss, each Thue his best. And here I have a pull Schwerdt, the
steel I, at this perilous day, with the best blood that I can find,
will stain. Now, (Esperanza) Percy * and rükt from, let all the
merry sounds of war instruments, and Bey this music, let us embrace
each other, because I wanted the sky to the earth Sezen that some of
us the time did not see each other again so bewillkommen. (They embrace
and go. The trumpet can be heard.) (ed * Diss was, according to Hall's
Chronicle Bl 22, the word on the attack in Percy's army. Pope.) Sixth
Scene. (The king with his army; bläßt to attack you.) (Hereafter occur
Dowglas and Sir Walter Blunt on.) Blunt. Who art thou, that thou me
everywhere so come in the way? What are you looking for honor to me
thereof? Dowglas. Wisse because my name is Dowglas, and I follow thee
deßwegen so because they try to say, you seyst a king. Blunt. They
tell you the truth. Dowglas. The Lord of Stafford has already paid for
it, that it looks like you, because I felt it was because that was
thee, King Harry, so he has this Schwerdt an end.

And so it should thun you, then it would be that you caught me
want to give. Blunt. I'm not born to me shows you übermüthiger Scot,
and you should find a king that Stafford's death will be avenged.

(They fight , Blunt is.) (By Hot occurs on track.) Hot Track. Dowglas
O, thou wouldst have to be so Holmedon ment under, never hätt I
have a Scots won. Dowglas. Everything is done, everything gained
Todt ligt the king here! Hot track. Where? Dowglas. Here. Hot-Track.
This, Dowglas? No, I know his face too well, a brave knight, it was
that his name was Blunt; it bears only a defense like the king. Dowglas.
Ah! thou nonsense! to Theuermann you have a title borrowed bought.
Why, you said to me, you seyst a king? Hot track. The King has many who
go into his clothes. Dowglas. So I want my Bey Schwerdt, kill all of his
clothes, his entire wardrobe, Stük for him until I Stük even for
you.

Hot-Track. In and out, our people hold so well that we can promise the
victory. (They go from.) Siebende and eighth Scene. (Falstaff and Prince
Henry.) (Falstaff redt tone a memme a little with himself, the
prince comes to the demands his sword from him, Falstaff hergeben not
want him as long as Percy still alive, and offers the Pistol to his
prince, by the prince from the Hulfter wants to pull out, He pulls a
bottle out with Sect; a loud laughter from Paradise bewillkommt this good
idea, and the intention of this scene is reached.) Ninth Scene. (trumpets
and Feldgeschrey, excursions, and the king, the prince, Lord John of
Lancaster, and the Earl of Westmorland occur.) King Henry. I pray thee,
Harry, pull 'you back, you have too much blood, Lord John of Lancaster,
do you deal with him. Lancaster. No sooner, Gracious Lord, before I
even blood. Prince Henry. I ask Eu. Majesty, endure, our wish to distance
our friends in confusion Sezen. King Henry. I will, Milord of
Westmorland, leads him into his tent. Westmorland. Come, Milord, I
want you to carry your tent. Prinz Heinrich. Mich. lead, Milord ? I need
your Hülfe not. The sky prevent that a Nadelrize the Prince of Wales
from such a field as it is, will drive, where so many noble men in
their blood unicellular crush, and the triumphant rebel to her
death spread.

Lancaster. Athmer We are here for too long ; come, cousin of Westmorland,
in this way ligt our duty to heaven's sake, come. Prinz Heinrich. Beyme
heaven, thou hast deceived me, Lancaster; I thought not that thou
lord of such a spirit seyst; else loves' ich dich as a brother,
John, but now lieb 'ich dich as my own soul.

King Henry. I saw him the Lord Percy with a Muth Spize the offer that I
am from such a young warrior was not hypothesis. Prinz Heinrich. O,
This boy has passion for all of us. (They go from.) (King Henry
remains Dowglas occurs.) Dowglas. Again a king? They grow like Hydra's
heads. I'm Dowglas, all the decay of this color - Who are you,
here the person of a king wants?

King Henry. The King himself, Dowglas, the warm bedaurt that you
have so many shadows of his offense, eh du 've found him. zween I
have sons who you and Percy on the entire battlefield advice, but because
you have me so glüklich fall into the hands, I will take with you;
vertheidige you!

Dowglas. I'm afraid you're just a Phantom, and yet you are wearing
in That like a king, but you're my, I am sure who you are, and so I
want you to win. (They fight, by the king is in danger, the Prince of
Wales about this.) Prince Henry. Lift your head to make you not worthy
Scot, or thou shalt never again do not lift the spirits of Scherley,
Stafford and Blunt are in my arms, the Prince of Wales ists, you
dräut, and never promises what he does not pay.

(They fight, Dowglas flees.) Munter, Gracious Lord! How is Your
Majesty?

Sir Nicolas Gawsey has to Hülfe geschikte, and Clifton has also done. I
just want to Clifton. King Henry. Athmer Stay and a Augenblik. You have
my respect verlohrne bought again, Harry, and by this noble rescue proved
that you my life is not indifferent. Prinz Heinrich. O God! that the
biggest injustice to me, ever said that I wish euern death. Wär 'so, I
would have just Dowglassens dräuende alone hand over you can, it
would end faster than your poison all of the world, and euerm the
son verrätherische have trouble saving.

King Henry. IZT you rush to Clifton, and I will to Sir Nicolas Gawsey.
(The King is from.) Tenth Scene. (Hot Spur, the Prince of Wales.) Hot
track. As I see, so you're Harry Monmouth. Prince Henry. You speak as
if I my name verläugnen wanted. Hot-Track. My Nam is Harry Percy.
Prinz Heinrich. So I see a very valiant rebel of the name carries. I'm
the Prince of Wales, and think not, Percy, longer beside me at the
Price of Honor to jostle. Zween stars can not run her in a sphere and
keep a can in England no double kingdom for Harry Percy, and for the
Prince of Wales Theilen. Hot-Track. Also would it not, the hour has
come to one of us beyden must make an end, and wanted the sky, thy
name in the war wär 'IZT as big as mine. Prince Henry. It will
become bigger, we are always distinguished from each other, and I want
all these burgeoning honor of your Chamber pflüken to a wreath for
my forehead to make it.

Hot-Track. I can so you no longer hear brag. (They fight.) (Falstaff
comes about.) Falstaff. Bravo, Hall, drauf los, Hall! Sa Hey, here
you will find no child's play, which I can tell you. (Dowglas occurs,
and disputes with Falstaff, who immediately falls to the ground as
if he Todt sey; Dowglas goes off, and the prince met the Percy down.)
Hot Track. O Harry, thou hast robbed me of my fame; the loss of life
hurts me less than all the proud title, which thou hast abgewonnen
they wound my soul deeper than your Schwerdt my flesh, but the soul
is a Sclavin of life, and life is a game of Glüks - O I could
propheceyen when the cold hand of death, not on my tongue would be,
well, Percy, thou art dust, for a dish - (He dies.)

Prince Henry. worms, brave Percy. Fahr du wohl! Unglüklicher ambition,
how small you shrink together! As this body nor a soul in him, a kingdom
was a too small room for him; IZT zween steps are contemptuous enough
ground area. This earth, which Percy Todt bears, no bears
living, he is like. Wär'st you still fragile, so würd 'I am not allowed
Seyn, my respect for you to leave this outbreak.

But now let me zerfeztes Antliz thy veil, and take this last service of
love from my hand. Drive well and take your praise with thee to heaven,
thy ignominy sleep with thee in thy grave, and will not be in your grave
font mentioned! - (He sees Falstaff.) How old acquaintance? Could all
this quantity of meat does not keep a little life?

Poor Jak, fahr wohl! A better man möcht 'I better have saved .* (Geht
ab.) (Ed * You can here ducer half bald rhymes gone, the prince of the
unworthy, and disfigure the whole scene.) Eilfte Scene. (Falstaff is
back, and amüsirt himself with frosty word games on the wariness he
had to be Todt represent. he worried as last, Percy would also like to
wake up and giebt him deßwegen another blow by the following scene is
concerned.) Twelfth Scene. (Prince Henry, and John of Lancaster occur.)
Prince Henry. Come, brother John; thou hast the first time you want
splendidly kept. Lancaster. Softly, whom have we here? Did you say I do
not, this guy Dike sey Todt? Prinz Heinrich. That I am that, I saw
him without Athem on the ground unicellular. Bist du Bey life, or
do we see your ghost? Speech, our ears have the certificate to confirm
our eyes when we should believe them, you're not what you seem. Falstaff.
No, it's certainly, I'm not duplicated, but if I'm not Hans Falstaff,
so I want to give an Seyn HansDampf.

Here ligt Percy, if your father an honor for me to anthun wants, so he's
like, where not, so he can be the next Percy himself killed. I hope
either to count or duke, that I can assure you. Prinz Heinrich. How? I
ordered the Percy, and I saw thee Todt unicellular. Falstaff. Thats you?
Lord, Lord! How the world the lie is revealed, I versichre you, I was
without Athem on the ground, and he also, but we beyde hours at the same
time again, and fought a long hour, after Gloke of Schrewsbury; if I
believe it will well, if not, so like that, it should reward the bravery
to take on sin, I will put my life on it Sezen that I gave him the wound
in the leg had Dike: If the man is still alive, and it läugnen wanted,
I wanted him by my sword Stük feed. Lancaster.

This is the strangest story that I've ever heard. Prinz Heinrich.
This is the strangest fellow, brother John - Come on you, take your
luggage on the hübsch Rüken, and if a lie what you good thun kan,
so I want them to like you, with the cheapest Ausdrüken übergülden,
which I find kan. - (You can hear the blow Rükzug.) The field is on us!
Come, brother, we want the middle of the battlefield, and see which
of our friends still live, and which have fallen. (They go from.) Falstaff.
I also want Dreiner behind. But I will see how they will reward me. The
sky wage 'is the one who rewarded me!

When will I grow, so werd 'ich by half of my stomach smaller, because
I will then purgieren, and the Sect, and a decent life, like a gentleman
should thun. (He goes anyway.) Dreyzehnte Scene. ( Trumpets: King Henry,
the Prince of Wales, Lord John of Lancaster, Earl of Westmorland,
with Worcester and Vernon as prisoners, occur.) King Henry. This
was the indignation even all their punishment.

Uebelgesinnter Worcester, we are not sent you all grace, forgiveness and
friendship to Erbietungen? And you yourself erfrechtest our statement
in the opposite Theil to circulate, and by this fraud to your cousin
confidence to abuse his doom! Drey tapfre Ritter, on this day on our
side have fallen, a noble Earl, and many others wakern people would
still live, if you honestly, as a Christian, for the best of our armies
would have thought. Worcester. What I've done, forced me to my
preservation, examination and I am patiently my fate as it is not in my
power hour, evade him. King Henry. Führet Worcester and Vernon to
death, the other accomplice, we have time. What is on the field? Prinz
Heinrich. Tapfre The Scot, Lord Douglas, as he saw that no hope was left
that day to win, that Percy was slain, and the fear of all his people,
has taken fled with the other; and a case that he directed it so
badly, that he in the hands of the Nachsezenden fell.

He is in my tent, and I ask Your Majesty to the grace that I am
over him dispose it.

King Henry. Hearty welcome. Prinz Heinrich. So transferable 'I have
you, brother, Lancaster, the execution of this laudable work of Großmuth.
Go to Douglas, and sezt him without ransom, and condition, in full
Freyheit.

The bravery, which he at the present day on our heads erprobet has taught
us so beautiful Thater even our enemies hochzuschäzen. Lancaster. I
thank your grace for a job, which I immediately with pleasure will
follow. King Henry. Now nothing remains but to our power to Theilen.
My son John and my cousin Westmorland, should you in utmost haste to York
to ask for Northumberland and the prelate Scroop to Reiff, which is
how we hear, with great zeal prepare for war. I myself and my son Harry,
will move to Wales, with Glendower and the Earl of March to fight. [Another
day like this, the outrage the Muth behave, let's see, after a
nice beginning, do not desist, until all we have won again ours.]
* (Ed * Rhymes in the original.)

An old woman came hobbling up on her small feet
and poking her head in at the church door screamed, "My pig has gone!
Pig has gone!" and away went another portion of the congregation to help
find the truant porker.

But, in spite of many interruptions, the congregation at Go-ko-khi
learned much of the beautiful truth of their new religion. Their
indulgent pastor never blamed his restless hearers, but before the
church was two months old he had trained them so well that there was
not a more orderly and attentive congregation even in his own Christian
Canada than that which gathered in the first chapel in north Formosa.

But the day came at last when he had to leave them, and the question was
who should be left over them. The answer seemed very plain,--A Hoa.
The first convert placed as pastor over the first church! It was
very fitting. Some months before, down in Tamsui, when A Hoa had been
baptized and had taken his first communion, he had vowed to give his
life more fully to his Master's service. So here was his field of labor,
and here he began his work. He was so utterly sincere and lovable, so
bright and jovial, so firm of purpose and yet so kindly, that he was
soon beloved by all the Christians and respected by the heathen. And one
of his greatest helpers was widow Thah-so, who had been instrumental in
bringing the missionary with his glad tidings to her village.

Mackay missed A Hoa sorely at first, but he had his other students about
him, and often when bent upon a long journey would send for his first
convert, and together they would travel here and there over the island,
making new recruits everywhere for the army of their great Captain.

The little church at Go-ko-khi was but the first of many. Like the
hepaticas that used to peep forth in the missionary's home woods,
telling that spring had arrived, here and there they came up, showing
that the long cruel winter of heathenism in north Formosa was drawing to
an end.

Away up the Tamsui river, nestled at the foot of the mountains, stood
a busy town called Sin-tiam. A young man from this place sailed down to
Tamsui on business one day and there heard the great Kai Bok-su preach
of the new Jehovah-God, he went home full of the wonderful news, and so
much did he talk about it that a large number of people in Sin-tiam were
very anxious to hear the barbarian themselves. So one day a delegation
came down the river to the house on the bluff above Tamsui. They made
this request known to the missionary as he sat teaching his students in
the study. Would he not come and tell the people of Sin-tiam the story
about this Jesus-God who loved all men? Would he go? Kai Bok-su was on
the road almost before the slow-going Orientals had finished delivering
the message.

It was the season of a feast to their idols in Sin-tiam when the
missionary and his party arrived. Great crowds thronged the streets,
and the barbarian with his white face and his black beard and his queer
clothes attracted unusual attention. The familiar cry, "Foreign devil,"
was mingled with "Kill the barbarian," "Down with the foreigner." The
crowd began to surge closer around the missionary party, and affairs
looked very serious. Suddenly a little boy right in Mackay's path was
struck on the head by a brick intended for the missionary. He was picked
up, and Mackay, pressing through the crowd to where the little fellow
lay, took out his surgical instruments and dressed the wound. All about
him the cries of "Kill the foreign devil" changed to cries of "Good
heart! Good heart!" The crowd became friendly at once, and Mackay passed
on, having had once more a narrow escape from death.

The work of preaching to these people was carried on vigorously, and
before many months had passed the Christians met together and declared
they must build a chapel for the worship of the true God. So, close
by the riverside, in a most picturesque spot, the walls of the second
chapel of north Formosa began to rise. It was not without opposition
of course. One rabid idol-worshiper stopped before the half-finished
building with its busy workmen, and, picking up a large stone, declared
that he would smash the head of the black-bearded barbarian if the work
was not stopped that moment. Needless to say, the missionary, standing
within a good stone's throw of his enemy, ordered the workers to
continue. George Mackay was not to be stopped by all the stones in north
Formosa.

This stone was never thrown, however, and at last the chapel was
finished. Once more a preacher was ready to be its pastor. Tan He, a
young man who had been studying earnestly under his leader for some
time, was placed over this second congregation, and once more there
blossomed out a sure sign that the spring had indeed come to north
Formosa.

Tek-chham, a walled city of over forty thousand inhabitants, was the
next place to be attacked by this little army of the King's soldiers.
The first visit of the missionary caused a riot, but before long
Tek-chham had a chapel with some of the rioters for its best members,
and a once proud graduate and worshiper of Confucius installed in it as
its pastor.

Ten miles from Tek-chham stood a little village called Geh-bai. The
missionary-soldiers visited it, and to their delight found a church
building ready for them. It was quite a wonderful place, capable of
holding fully a thousand people without much crowding. Its roof was the
boughs of the great banyan tree; its one pillar the trunk, and its walls
the branches that bent down to enter the ground and take root. It made a
delightful shelter from the broiling sun. And here Kai Bok-su preached.
But a banyan does not give perfect shelter in all kinds of weather, so
when a number of people had declared themselves followers of the Lord
Jesus, a large house was rented and fitted up as a chapel, with another
native pastor over it.

Away over at Kelung a church was founded through a man who had carried
the gospel home from one of the missionary's sermons. Here and there the
hepaticas were springing up. From all sides came invitations to preach
the great news of the true God, and the young missionary gave himself
scarcely time to eat or sleep. He worked like a giant himself, and he
inspired the same spirit in the students that accompanied him. He was
like a Napoleon among his soldiers. Wherever he went they would go,
even though it would surely mean abuse and might mean death. And,
wherever they went, they brought such a wonderful, glad change to
people's hearts that they were like slave-liberators setting captives
free.

The most lawless and dangerous region in all north Formosa was that
surrounding the small town of Sa-kak-eng. In the mountains near by lived
a band of robbers who kept the people in a constant state of dread by
their terrible deeds of plunder and murder. Sometimes the frightened
townspeople would help the highwaymen just to gain their good-will, and
such treatment only made them bolder. Bands of them would even come down
into the town and march through the streets, frightening every one into
flight. They would shout and sing, and their favorite song was one that
showed how little they cared for the laws of the land.

You trust the mandarins, We trust the mountains.

So the song went, and when the missionary heard it first he could not
help confessing that after all it was a sorry job trusting the mandarins
for protection.

The first time he visited the place with A Hoa they were stoned and
driven out. But the missionaries came back, and at last were allowed to
preach. And then converts came and a church was established. The
robber bands received no more assistance from the people, and were
soon scattered by the officers of the law. And Sa-kak-eng was in peace
because the missionary had come.

But there was one place Mackay had so far scarcely dared to enter. Even
the robber-infested Sa-kak-eng would yield, but Bang-kah defied all
efforts. To the missionary it was the Gibraltar of heathen Formosa, and
he longed to storm it. North, south, east, and west of this great wicked
city churches had been planted, some only within a few miles of its
walls. But Bang-kah still stood frowning and unyielding. It had always
been very bitter against outsiders of all kinds. No foreign merchant was
allowed to do business in Bang-kah, so no wonder the foreign missionary
was driven out.

Mackay had dared to enter the place, being of the sort that would dare
anything. It was soon after he had settled in Formosa and A Hoa had
accompanied him. The result had been a riot. The streets had immediately
filled with a yelling, cursing mob that pelted the two missionaries with
stones and rotten eggs and filth, and drove them from the city.

But "Mackay never knew when he was beaten," as a fellow worker of his
once said, and though he was taking desperate chances, he went once more
inside the walls of Bangkah. This time he barely escaped with his life,
and the city authorities forbade every one, on pain of death, to
lease or sell property to him or in any way accommodate the barbarian
missionary.

But meanwhile Kai Bok-su was keeping his eye on Bang-kah, and when the
territory around had been possessed, he went up to Go-ko--khi and made
the daring proposition to A Hoa. Should they go up again and storm the
citadel of heathenism? And A Hoa answered promptly and bravely, "Let us
go."

So one day early in December, when the winter rains had commenced to
pour down, these two marched across the plain and into Bang-kah. By
keeping quiet and avoiding the main thoroughfare, they managed to rent
a house. It was a low, mean hovel in a dirty, narrow street, but it was
inside the forbidden city, and that was something. The two daring young
men then procured a large sheet of paper, printed on it in Chinese
characters "Jesus' Temple," and pasted it on the door. This announced
what they had come for, and they awaited results.

Presently there came the heavy tramp, tramp of feet on the stone
pavement. Mackay and A Hoa looked out. A party of soldiers, armed with
spears and swords, were returning from camp. They stopped before the hut
and read the inscription. They shouted loud threats and tramped away to
report the affair to headquarters.

In a short time, with a great noise and tramping, once more soldiers
were at the door. Mackay waked out and faced them quietly. The general
had given orders that the barbarian must leave this house immediately,
the soldier declared in a loud voice. The place belonged to the military
authorities.

"Show me your proof," said Mackay calmly. His bold behavior demanded
respectful treatment, so the soldier produced the deed for the property.

"I respect your law," said Mackay after he examined it, "and my
companion and I will vacate. But I have paid rent for this place,
therefore I am entitled to remain for the night. I will not go out until
morning."

His firm words and fearless manner had their effect both on the soldiers
and the noisy mob waiting for him outside, and the men, muttering
angrily, turned away. That night Mackay and A Hoa lay on a dirty grass
mat on the mud floor. The place was damp and filthy, but even had it
been comfortable they would have had little sleep. For, far into the
night, angry soldiers paraded the street. Often their voices rose to a
clamor and they would make a rush for the frail door of the little hut.
Many times the two young fellows arose, believing their last hour had
come. But the long night passed and they found that they were still left
untouched.

They rose early and started out. Already a great mob filled the space
in front of the house. Even the low roofs of the surrounding houses were
covered with people all out early to see the barbarian and his despised
companion driven from Bang-kah, and perhaps have the added pleasure of
witnessing their death.

The two walked bravely down the street. Curses were showered upon them
from all sides; broken tiles, stones, and filth were thrown at them, but
they moved on steadily. The mob hampered them so that they were hours
walking the short distance to the river. Here they entered a boat and
went down a few miles to a point where a chapel stood, and where some of
Mackay's students awaited them.

But the man who "did not know when he was beaten" had not turned his
back on the enemy. He gathered the group of students around him in the
little room attached to the chapel. Here they all knelt and the young
missionary laid their trouble before the great Captain who had said,
"All power is given unto me." "Give us an entrance to Bang-kah," was the
burden of the missionary 's prayer. They arose from their knees, and he
turned to A Hoa with that quick challenging movement his students had
learned to know so well.

"Come," he said, "we are going back to Bang-kah."

And A Hoa, whose habit it was to walk into all danger with a smile,
answered with all his heart:

"It is well, Kai Bok-su; we go back to Bang-kah."

And straight back to this Gibraltar the little army of two marched.
It was quite dark by the time they entered. A Formosan city is not the
blaze of electricity to which Westerners are accustomed, and only
here and there in the narrow streets shone a dim light. The travelers
stumbled along, scarcely knowing whither they were going. As they turned
a dark corner and plunged into another black street they met an old man
hobbling with the aid of a staff over the uneven stones of the pavement.
Mackay spoke to him politely and asked if he could tell him of any one
who would rent a house. "We want to do mission work," he added, feeling
that he must not get anything under false pretenses.

The old man nodded. "Yes, I can rent you my place," he answered readily.
"Come with me."

Full of amazement and gratitude the two adventurers groped their way
after him, stumbling over stones and heaps of rubbish. They could not
help realizing, as they got farther into the city, that should the old
man prove false and give an alarm the whole murderous populace of that
district would be around them instantly like a swarm of hornets. But
whether he was leading them into a trap or not their only course was to
follow.

At last he paused at a low door opening into the back part of a house.
The old man lighted a lamp, a pith wick in a saucer of peanut oil, and
the visitors looked around. The room was damp and dirty and infested
with the crawling creatures that fairly swarm in the Chinese houses of
the lower order. Rain dripped from the low ceiling on the mud floor, and
the meager furniture was dirty and sticky.

But the two young men who had found it were delighted. They felt like
the advance guard of an army that has taken the enemy's first outpost.
They were established in Bang-kah! They set to work at once to draw out
a rental paper. A Hoa sat at the table and wrote it out so that they
might be within the law which said that no foreigner must hold property
in Bang-kah. When the paper was signed and the money paid, the old man
crept stealthily away. He had his money, but he was too wary to let his
fellow citizens find how he had earned it.

As soon as morning came the little army in the midst of the hostile camp
hoisted its banner. When the citizens of Bang-kah awoke, they found on
the door of the hut the hated sign, in large Chinese characters, "Jesus'
Temple."

In less than an hour the street in front of it was thronged with a
shouting crowd. Before the day was past the news spread, and the whole
city was in an uproar. By the next afternoon the excitement had reached
white heat, and a wild crowd of men came roaring down the street.
They hurled themselves at the little house where the missionaries were
waiting and literally tore it to splinters. The screams of rage and
triumph were so horrible that they reminded Mackay of the savage yells
of the head-hunters.

When the mob leaped upon the roof and tore it off, the two hunted men
slipped out through a side door, and across the street into an inn. The
crowd instantly attacked it, smashing doors, ripping the tiles off the
roof, and uttering such bloodthirsty howls that they resembled wild
beasts far more than human beings. The landlord ordered the missionaries
out to where the mob was waiting to tear them limb from limb.

It was an awful moment. To go out was instant death, to remain merely
put off the end a few moments. Mackay, knowing his source of help, sent
up a desperate prayer to his Father in heaven.

Suddenly there was a strange lull in the street outside. The yells
ceased, the crashing of tiles stopped. The door opened, and there in his
sedan-chair of state surrounded by his bodyguard, appeared the Chinese
mandarin. And just behind him--blessed sight to the eyes of Kai
Bok-su--Mr. Scott, the British consul of Tamsui!

Without a word the two British-born clasped hands. It was not an
occasion for words. There was immediately a council of war. The mandarin
urged the British consul to send the missionary out of the city.

"I have no authority to give such an order," retorted Mr. Scott quickly.
"On the other hand you must protect him while he is here. He is a
British subject."

Mackay's heart swelled with pride. And he thanked God that his Empire
had such a worthy representative.

Having again impressed upon the mandarin that the missionary must be
protected or there would be trouble, Mr. Scott set off for his home.
Mackay accompanied him to the city gate. Then he turned and walked back
through the muttering crowds straight to the inn he had left. He stopped
occasionally to pull a tooth or give medicine for malaria, for even in
Bang-kah he had a few friends.

The mandarin was now as much afraid of the missionary as if he had been
the plague. He knew he dared not allow him to be touched, and he also
knew he had very little power over a mob. He was responsible, too,
to men in higher office, for the control of the people, and would be
severely punished if there was a riot, he was indeed in a very bad way
when he heard that the troublesome missionary had come back, and he
followed him to the inn to try to induce him to leave.

He found Mackay with A Hoa, quietly seated in their room. First he
commanded, then he tried to bribe, and then he even descended to beg the
"foreign devil" to leave the city. But Mackay was immovable.

"I cannot leave," he said, touched by the man's distress. "I cannot quit
this city until I have preached the gospel here." He held up his forceps
and his Bible. "See! I use these to relieve pain of the body, and this
gives relief from sin,--the disease of the soul. I cannot go until I
have given your people the benefit of them."

The mandarin went away enraged and baffled. He could not persuade the
man to go; he dared not drive him out. He left a squad of soldiers to
guard the place, however, remembering the British consul's warning.

In a few days the excitement subsided. People became accustomed to
seeing the barbarian teacher and his companion go about the streets.
Many were relieved of much pain by him too, and a large number listened
with some interest to the new doctrine he taught concerning one God.

He had been there a week when some prominent citizens came to him with
a polite offer. They would give him free a piece of ground outside the
city on which to build a church. Kai Bok-su's flashing black eyes at
once saw the bribe. They wanted to coax him out when they could not
drive him. He refused politely but firmly.

"I own that property," he declared, pointing to the heap of ruins into
which his house had been turned, "and there I will build a church."

They did everything in their power to prevent him, but one day, many
months after, right on the site where they had literally torn the roof
from above him, arose a pretty little stone church, and that was the
beginning of great things in Bang-kah.

You munkelst, deutelst, heuchelst - ashamed of yourself! And here
... and here - not possible! Booklet, schweig! A favorite muses! And so
bad and cowardly! Erasmus advises Zurich - low activity - I prohibit
myself here auszuruhn.

Mich score incorporated into law, it's dangerous!

You know, the Zurich bad! All this because I, you seemed to me good, you
wanted to advertise for the freedom of service. Man, would not be
counting the days to me, to Basle to Bude rose 'I tell you, I would prefer
you with this poor, I think it shows your books from dust. But tremble
not! you should not geschehn, I would just you in the eye sehn Aug.
edles Your knowledge, conversation ', I is you dead, you offer
gold and we need bread!

The crowd is hungry, you never knew? emphasize with your treasures!
Sätt'ge it! Your thinking, talking 'I Eitler is a dream, not drangvoll
grow into a life ... What do you want? Incense? Homage? Sure. You're a
great light, a bright star! Before thy glory prevents Hutten is - But
now, big man, Ermann you! The Satyrmaske put it aside - An open face of
calls for our time. Friend - all is forgiven , speak freely, I protect
you from the Pope and Klerisei! You know the truth, not practicing treason,
Give witness! Wage a Mannestat! Bekennen, Erasme, whether you are a
papist, a Roman or Protestant are! No Third! Give you a great style!
You pinch the lips - are you our? Say! ... Your clever looks at me mockingly
... Vale, Erasme! Tot and dismissed!

XXXV Hutten The song The Ufenau passed a barge glided very close. He
almost ran to the shore. Fahrnden students from the boat was full, a
song from twenty throats young plaice. Buchenlaub the hidden, invisible,
Was I close to touching the crowd.

The oars hit the beat of the melody, along the island shore sang them:
"Protect the Christian Frankish noble blood! It kostlich write us a
lot of good books! From Faithful does the Knight's, without pay, the
trustee feels the German nation! The Roman murderer sends you out the
door, Oh noble hat from Franconia, see for thee! "¹ Zweiglein They
broke away from the Buchenhag And nobody knew who was behind it: 1.
Hutten song. XXXVI Deutsche Libertät A funny drums moves along the
beach with gellens whistling and singing with war. They solve
their pieces. Smoke and steam. He scans it. Standards, Roßgestampf.
Gewalt'ge body! It is a pleasure, therefore as they strut confidently.

'S is Schwyzer ground. Abundant flow of Sold, wild, always wild
burning thirst for gold. The Älpler have strong Lebensüberfluß And
blood, that they must cupping. Ziehn Who they? The lilies seh 'ich
Wehner, For King, this Franz rice barrel gehn. Not pushing the Swiss
his evil race alone. The Landsknecht takes it with him. Deusch The Knights
also, he is challenging and rauft For every foreign king, who buys him.
Prince, priest, peasant, urban, chivalry, each one defying own life
force on To the executioner a freedom which forgets What they honor the
rich man is guilty! To hell a German Libertät, The boastful in enemy camp
is! patience! It comes the day that is a curious tent agree whether
all Germans! Patience! We are at once an Panier between us And who
wants to kill us! Patience! I know my people, Mark, what is growing
slowly, which is heavily duplicated. Patience! What slowly matures, the
aging late! When others wither, we will be a state. XXXVII The blacksmith
on the banks over there seh 'from a vent I lust'ge sparks swirl
purple And blacksmith's anvil and my mind, Before that I once stood amazed
am. As a way of making Lost ', I stop: It was around midnight in a
black forest. A big good blacksmith anvil stood And on the hammer with
a raised hand berußter. First, he established that it Scholl around
in finsterm mysterious forest, And cried: "Take the first string, the
devil finds that he is hell entfahren can not!" The Hammer on the other
times he raised the anvil, he suggested that it sparks flew, And
cried: "Meet you the enemy kingdom, the second shock That it to the
foot may not fürder bear! "The Hammer, he is still for the third time,
The Weather niederfuhr like utter blast, And laughed:" Forging, third,
you are fairly old, and our new imperial crown!

"Hutten guest XXXVIII The pilgrim Me pushes the hair dryer. He breathes
heavy and humid. There in the dark chapel, it is cool. At a traffic
Abendruhe 'And I will probably einz'ge of his worshipers. Hello, my
schwäb'scher neighboring Adalrich! ¹ You stupid smile. A painted Stümper
you. A church, you will Sittig in his hand: You created a monastery,
strange ', I to hie country!

You were received in the conduct of your time And searched's done in
Herzenslauterkeit. I lower the main ... Who there? Am I sniffing? At
the foot of the altar has gerauscht outfit. A pilgrim kneels that the
lips silently praying stimulates And his rosary moves.

A bold growth, crouching in monk garb! And - my 'I - a schwertgewohnte
hand - what breathes me? What strikes me when suddenly, that this
monk was a bad sector? ... What whispers in my ear, that this still
Versunkne man I want in life ... it's a murderer, sent against me, no.
Quiet kneels and lifts it nobly.

He turns to the shore to surf - you're a knight! Why pilgerst you? 1st
The Church of the Holy Ufenau XXXIX The meal he stands on the beach
and hinauszusehn seems as if 'it on the crest of the waves go. A
flash! He plunged into the flood crackling! The shores glomm in Bleicher
Schwefelglut ... The suffering swarms range encompassed a vision of hell
Heil'genschein light ... My poor Hutten - you're body weak! You call
the pilgrims prefer to roof!

Ins dryness, pilgrims , eh 'the rain undulates!

Des house Lord is continuing. I am the Vogt. What stands your
admiration? You will get wet! Give me your hand! We enter into the serenity.
Be welcome here! Machet's you comfortable! Where the journey?
"According to Jerusalem." The Pilgrim rüst'ger, is already on the
sea. I asked after the next station. "There, behind the mountain
Einsiedeln grace the house." Nest is empty. The birds flew out.

You hit a cross, as if 'the bad guy here? Allowed! With a Christian you
talk! (The Welsh sanctimony comfortable with me badly ... Be friendly,
Hutten! He has money right) I bet, Sir, Your trugt soldier costume,
Tell me the campaign, which you joined! "Ramparts Pamplona, Mr defending
'myself. "The honors. The fort remained chivalrously. And in no kämpftet
your newer war? "I always fight. Maria gives the victory." To be honest
wears a bundle every Christian. "Rescues us from Maria Satanslist." (With
such Nonnensprüchlein he beats me!

Potz blood and wounds ... Hutten, tame you!) pilgrim, I hol 'you
a cup of wine? Your refuses you? To give you water. (He mutters, exorcised
According to sources in the country ... heretic society uncanny!
Rasch's darken. Lodre, lights ... A face, That my deepest essence
contradicts! World stranger eyes full of dreams and delusion -
And yet resolve the mouth ... the forehead plan!) - Hidalgo, your
beginget wild Seek And indeed now Holy places Council? your loses?
(He crosses his hands on his breast, And silent.

Erstirbt I, too, the speech's content. 'S is better this way, we should
dispute entstehn, Am brightest is when we go to sleep.) Behold,
pilgrims, as the sky nächt'ge loht! Heut abend fändet hardly your
boat. Take this preference is also the space is limited, we now seek
the peace and quiet, if your thinking. wollet your store on the
bare stone? It tolerates' I do not. You will be tired. As my blanket!
Here the mantle too! Your embeds after you use a simple box! Good
'night! You're a Spaniard? "Knights, yes." Nennet And you? "Loyola
Iñigo." ¹ 1st The pilgrimage to Jerusalem Loyolas comes at this time XL
Prayer a horrific weather shock! The thunder crashes. What I saw there
in blitzerhellter night? And again now! A back - certainly shows, with
the Spaniard plaguing the belt up! His blood trickles hagern shoulders!
To pray he raises in Andachtsglut. Forced eavesdropping hear every word
I qualberauschten On those lips there: "Mary, immaculately empfangne
Magd, Too your Knie'n hab 'ich entsagt the world. ird'schen The chivalry
ersterb' And here I draw me to the servants ew'gen Dir Where am I
bleeding?

Give the field yelling: you suggest to the painfully heresy - you
have your the crown of the head and from the hand you stole from the
lily. you cry? Your tears burn me - I'll do your thing. Tröster you!
A Wink from you - it falls' I said in the battle. Do not you know even
the size of your power! The Bible speaks of Beech own son to you, you
high, not in würd'gem clay. The Holy Scriptures are the heretics Hort
- You smile and defeat the Bible word. ein'ge The judge Christ
frightens the time , they would be happy to follow a woman loveliness.

When the son returns to Martin Luther, we crown you who are not resisting
the bliss! You bebst all evening bells ore, You fill the soul, the heart
you happy. We cover you with fragrant ' gen roses, Gen sky best
case ungekreuzigt you! The gläub'gen you the Spaniards often appeared,
it still glows the bosom of your service. you, princess, petition
'I Companie and lead them against your enemies. A ruthless army,
the never tired, meeting I in my main team. The killing heretics, but
the sinners mild, we convert the world to your screen. Where we
destroyed the temple again weihn, ascents, goddess, the shrine alone!
And who the Erdenweibe you profaned, addressed He and vermaledeit
... under dive, swan, and from the wave Erstehe double lap blank and
flawless! ... You smile to your servant rewarding, In golden Himmelsglorie
fade You ... " XLI Night Fever The gray morning - the pilgrim place
empty? Hahnenruf When he disappeared spooky! My compatriots, it's
truth? Was it a dream?

Slept with the devil I am in the same room? It was a spook! It was a
Fieberwahn! The Welsh grimace's pleased with me! No, that's truth! No
morning wind andachtsvoll The Prayer insane! ... What tormenting 'me?
Unable One is indeed bigots! But a Spaniard? A soldier?

Mönchlein No, it's in idleness tired, he has the warrior breed and
will power. He is an enthusiast! Full of self-deception! In addition,
he is smart as hell!

Idolize a woman - But wit and humiliation - even coming from the
apple broke! Flatter the woman is the serpent List! Hutten I know
what is on the women! The Truth spite and anger and lust feud has no
place in a round breast. Zutulich approaching the üpp'ge Welsh art,
devotional verkuppelnd with the meaning oestrus. The Church is rising
again And phantastisch gürtet to run a new victory, coupled with figs
Fürstentyrannei, Is it to their idols firmly geschart; The Dragon
Rome, taken to the Mark, by his wound, he is strongly convinced of the
truth And the sword of the head robbed, he grows up with a main
gift'gern.

O mankind, full of anguish Sisyphus, the rock's eternal must roll! A
fleeting Vorgefecht me genarrt Now only saw 'my opponent. Now I missed
my day soils, Starts the grimme enemy to show. wicked murderers name
"Loyola" sticks to the blood red as syllables.

The Höllensendling the world durchziehn What I came down not pray to
him? Pfui, Hutten, Meucheltat! The fever plagues And shakes you. Gottlob,
which meets tomorrow ... Maybe it was Ausgeburt's a night? And yet!
Had I killed the Spaniards! XLII The people I spoke iconoclast: Sun,
Hutten,'s can no longer go, today you must once again people sehn! And
jumped into the boat and paved the path with my rowing stroke to right
Seegestad. A stately village has 'I had with the boat - because that's
stirred, as if Feuersnot. Where the Dorfbach spilled into the lake,
noise' is a crowd of men, a Kindertroß. dragged from their church with
their cries The Holy Pictures came and threw them into the flood the
whole Hort With some simple wit and cheeky word.

The vortex led away the old gray and washed the wounds from Märtrer
blut'ge. wax heart, Votivgeschenk, shrine Flog everything funny in the
stream into it - Da werd 'ich an Steingebilds aware With hands lifted
schwiel'gen a men's pair and I was shocked.

It was a delicate formations: The maid Maria smiled so mild And saw
the rough touching people so that when she talks: What have I done unto
you! How did the church plant in this area? In Nuremberg, I saw myself
hardly Beßres. Man felt that a master of late and early This turned
louder and Lieb Müh. destroy what a believer Herze created a quiet
Engelruf obedience, destroying a religious Creator lust, it's a
sacrilege!

I feel deeply's breast area ... "I stop? I? Ulrich Hutten? No ... your
men, the idol falls into it, I stepped out and cried with severe's
mouth. They threw. Something Noble went to ground. Blaufarbne XLIII
The draft pitchers brought her then, you gave and the banquet began.
- "The Lord a strange glass! Tut us know if you are not one of the proud
are! Stoßt, Mr Knight ... warpage of your mouth? Trinkt! Our wine is
süffig and healthy! Potz hail! If you our wine bad? Päpstler Are you
a servant or prince?'s Tastes? "- Delicious .--" A glass, and an as
yet! The German Mr. Ufnau live on high!

"I drank and würgt' - it was a sour mouthful - and arbitration with a
handshake upright. I made myself like this with good nature and still
enjoy laughing at my beard: The I am the emperor and the pope gedreut,
the people I Gefallen log tonight. XLIV The Schaffner In Paradise
itself took well one on one, you can not suffer. So I am in this green
space. The conductor is a prankster and is a Fratz. I read in the maximum
bent sehn him go under a tub. I'm the heretic monastery servant hated
And his greed verdrießt poor guest. He squints. It's blink against
the sunlight And look my graden not tolerate it. He wants me, "you
worse 'residence," and prays: "Get thee soon the devil!" A scoundrel,
who I so in the face and behind my back otherwise speaks! Now hab 'I
praised him and so good! wackrer His boy has healthy blood. Here the
sexes are changing quickly, and unlike the father of the child can look.
Nature is in the high mountains and heavy airs their heart steels and
Mark: The boy who with Hutten sat in the boat, is brave and loyal's
remains to the death! XLV Ferge Let The small, Ruodi your boat gently go!
In clear reasons let me niedersehn! Here in the crystal mirror farbenmild
If a man and a boy's picture.

You look up in Ringellockenzier, Twenty summers, boy, I was like you.
And yet a different portrait looks up, the deep comes gefurchte known
me before! Well, this is difficult beschriebne my forehead - Führwahr,
I would not else be!

The surface ripples in the evening wind, Zergangen both pictures!
Rudre, child! XLVI Swiss and Landsknecht Heut you with my soldiers
getischt. An unattached people. Mich hat's refreshing. Päpstler heretics
and sat in the club When our dear women monastery wine. They were just
brown and yield difficult mountain in the French speaking about
her sun.

Immediately I asked one who wore a bandage: confess that you a pious
Landsknecht beat! Nonsense that excites you every day and rauft, Landsknecht
and Swiss, both German baptized! - "Why, Mr. Ritter, I moved from
leather? Heini Wolleb Because my feeling deceived. For refreshment
we were sitting there in the twenty 'Three Kings' of Mantua . Pfuhl
and Wall Rings. The fever breathed sultry. Seelisberg On, dacht 'ich,
it blows cool. There's roars. A long drawn honestly Muh. Me thinks
there's no brown Lisli, our cow. And once again roars's. Now come into
my mind, the andre Lisli even the milkmaid.

For the third moo's. flashes of Ürnersee, Scharf flashes on the sky Gezack
of snow. I drips Since the Aug. laughs the Jauch: 'You're bull, A country
boy yells. Rindlein No graset here.' I went up: 'On my oath and vow!
So deceptively moo of Heini Wolleb only' run ins Freie 'I do. Around
the corner highlighted the Heini grinning and mocked me. "Arise,
Heinz!" He was challenged, and honestly, we witness how the black patches
are here. Sumpf'gem In The Heini Mantovanerboden rests, so has excellent
gemuht. Honorable knight, reichet my hand And they would be outlawed
and banned! Here dwells in your ungekränkt Firnelicht, Only muhet,
Lord, not on your island!

"¹ 1st The Muhen, whereupon the Swiss Landsknecht scoffed, in those
days a lot of blood lost. XLVII legacy The Florentine growled before him:
"The stranger stairs, oh how steep, how heavy!" You sing "I außerm
kingdom, yet in the kingdom : The Swiss lawn is soft and easily!
Germany, do not forget who gave the Huttenstrasse the last floor and
the last bread! Too poor I am a gift, So you stay mindful of my guilt!
XLVIII Abendstimmung the morning laughs as a young woman , Strictly looking
at my Ufenau evening, Through flood Dark ghostly stretch from nearby
mountains shadow covered. Lang, the soldiers on a ship ergetzt Echo.
Both remain silent now. Verklungen is the Vesper bell sound, a
darker administers peace everywhere. Wär 'I have a young man full of
passion, frightens the life force are suitable, dissolved in tears, what
a bang and wild young heart assails, in this picture.

Now hab 'I am acting my subdued glow, The Vespers peace hab' I fought
advance And when you, the sun, you remove, comforted by this
profound evening Ernst.

In the strict lines of the natural sensitivity 'I related the soul only.
XLIX night conversation with glühnden traces entflohn is the day, the
sky, stars twinkle early already.

The old man sits on his favorite bank: You dream pastor? Back a little!
Thanks. What you look at the ecstatic sky What you see up there? -
"Knight, world world! To know that among us, we tried the natural
order, a secret glow! Mir has fahrnder's a student entrusted. Tilts you
to me They say love's not loud.

Chorherrenstift One lives in Torun, which has maintaining it until the
mystery hinted at night. Köpernik shows with Mr. bünd'gem conclusion
that - staunet - must walk our earth! Know, around the Sun Princess
And we believed serving us surrounded by it! you think we sit here
quietly? Permits - We float, as Adler force robbed! not walk, knights,
we alone! The main Arise!

The whole sky and pulls alive! A group of pilgrims, it's that surrounded
us, each of which gently forcing the other, And our Sternlein in this
Scharnstein Probably one of the lowest even pilgrims. We took our
world and heaven for robbery, we deemed ourselves the space and
are a dust.

But better than a king and is solely a citizen of a great empire to
be. With higher worlds brings us our course in a glowing connection!
A new life is opened ourselves on light levels durchlaufner train. I
love 'you, Hutten, and I would like you wiedersehn on a beautiful star.
The closer the star, which rests eternally, To the pure, the
Liebesglut.

The head is that once the Jacob beholds. your smiles, knight? Red 'I
clumsily? Is it too covetous, guess what I want? blicket your ins Dunkle
and remain silent ... " - At Ufnau, pastor, is the evening cool. Ruhsame
night! I am looking for my Pfühl And leave you with the stars, now
alone, I would be again tomorrow wacker.

Diene initial 'I am from my time on earth And I'm not serving
dannzumal free, Spread it on the stars new Lehn - Well! I think my
husband to stand. L myth "Mr. Ritter, you have said to me in Vertraun's,
a recently split Mönchleins ears? Is it true, where the fine was a
humanist in the Zyklopentat? Where did the Christian? You are a prächt'ger
While House companion, but did you have a dangerous pair of eyes:
In the dialogue shines Fair's mild, While your sinnt and hatches, it
threatens wild. Sagt, tapfrer Knight, I whimpered in his ear,
whether poor Pfäfflein that lost hers? "- pastors, criticism! Am I a
Polyphemus? Nie hab 'I cut a link in someone. When a son of the earth
praise and Price, DC is to circle him say. Pfaffen The notes, hab'
I plucked the hair, the fat ear lobes also plucked - The , pastor,
history is brightened, the other plays in the fable world fluctuate.
LI The priest - a tired rowing roars. The priest turns back with a
federal armored plants. Etzel here high in the force grows a herb, which
he sent me a salutary Tränklein brews. Still blows the evening air is
not too fresh - Outdoor set 'I both look at the table. Hieher! Thee is
covered! Nimm's not exactly lacking even the landlady at the Ufenau. In
spite of your gray beard, you must frein! So you lined the new Pfaffheit
YOU! Whether these new Pfaffenart thrives And what is good for them,
is a question of time ... - " The new Pfaffheit wünsch 'ich healing
everything, I even erkür' I have a different part.'

s driving me out of my church and beyond to the profession that made
me fed and created, the still mildly on earth is from his blue coat
umweht far. The church issues are serious confusion, And eternally
damned is, who is mistaken.

The let me in without Harm to beruhn And believe me, to my plants now.
The body had to heal my future office, to atonement, that I once damned
souls! A great doctor, who runs the country, has me the silent force
Herb taught. From Paracelso have you, knight, heard the favorite son
of mother earth to which you busy your Horte shows the chatting no
secret she hides? Unfern from here on Etzel he house. I recently sent
a messenger from invited And after the miracle man Ufenau And comfort me,
that he can help you. twitches your armpits ... His art is great, And,
knights, you are even glaubenslos! " The death sentence LII Paracelsus's
Is the world a heart so male finds from the infatuate lets hope
not, what my friend said of Paracelsus, The I flew like a butterfly
after lichter, The lowered to myself unconsciously, A drifting
Keimlein Siech in the chest.

I longed me until the desired came Mägdlein How to look after the
groom.

Today he was there. I was miserably sick in oak shadow on the grass bank.
He did when würd 'er my unaware, however, touched me his pair of
sharp eyes.

He took the pastor there at the beach aside and said to him secretly with
ferocity.

He has an adventurous face, So think 'I am not the serious researcher.
I listened to. Whether he creates rescue me? And I heard: "It lacks
the vitality of fine !"... My ear has heard him whisper:" Here is a
noble Organon destroyed "... By he furtively looked over, whispered
'fast he: "facies hippocratica !"...

What saith the dude love the German is not so pure and mixed garst'ge
foreign chunks YOU!

He stepped up, he gave me the rights, he spoke with pomp:" I greet Zier
Germany! "He called me the freedom tower and a refuge, from my illness
talking about 'he is not a word. I seemed' that he entwand a sigh,
As his finger on the pulse, I felt. Plan, he praised my verses to me,
The Fool. He said they are "proud" and "rich beblümt". "The Ufnau" he
said, "is known by you And even by children and grandchildren
mentioned.

Einsam Not your lives here on the island, populated with your
thoughts, you!"

I thought: How about your name fits you! Bombastus call you - and speak
Bombast! I gave him the foreword to the boat, then climbed the hill slowly
I hinan. It was a golden morning in August, the second grass thrived
with force and lust! The whole dense blühnde Meadow klang And undulates'
and running 'and flutters', zirpt' and sang.

I step in stem and flowers, sweet überflammt from sunlight - condemned
to death!

At last without looking up, he called to his
boys below: "I think there are rats up here among my papers!"

Koa Kau, one of the younger of the students, ran lightly up the stairs
to give battle to the intruders. What was his horror when he saw fully
three feet of a monster serpent sticking up through the pipe-hole and
waving its horrible head in the air just a little distance from Kai
Bok-su's chair.

The boy gave a shout, darted down the stair, and with a sharp stick,
pinned the body of the snake to the wall below. The creature became
terribly violent, but Koa Kau held on valiantly and Mackay seized an
old Chinese spear that happened to be in the room above and pierced
the serpent through the head. They pulled its dead body down into the
kitchen below and spread it out. It measured nine feet. The students
would not rest until it was buried, and the remembrance of the horrible
creature's visit for some time spoiled the charm of the little upper
room.

The rocks at Kelung harbor were another favorite spot for this little
traveling university to hold its classes. Sometimes they would take
their dinner and row out in a little sampan to the rocks outside the
harbor and there, undisturbed, they would study the whole day long.

They always began the day's work with a prayer and a hymn of praise, and
no matter what subjects they might study, most of the time was spent on
the greatest of books. After a hard morning's work each one would gather
sticks, make a fire, and they would have their dinner of vegetables,
rice, and pork or buffalo-meat. Then there were oysters, taken fresh off
the rocks, to add to their bill of fare.

At five in the afternoon, when the strain of study was beginning to
tell, they would vary the program. One or two of the boys would take
a plunge into the sea and bring up a subject for study,--a shell, some
living coral, sea-weed, sea-urchins, or some such treasure. They would
examine it, and Kai Bok-su, always delighted when on a scientific
subject, would give them a lesson in natural history. And he saw with
joy how the wonders of the sea and land opened these young men's minds
to understand what a great and wonderful God was theirs, who had made
"the heaven and the earth and the sea, and all that in them is."

When they visited a chapel in the country, they had a daily program
which they tried hard to follow. They studied until four o'clock every
afternoon and all were trained in speaking and preaching. After four
they made visits together to Christians or heathen, speaking always a
word for their Master. Every evening a public service was held at which
Mackay preached. These sermons were an important part of the young men's
training, for he always treated the gospel in a new way. A Hoa, who was
Mackay's companion for the greater part of sixteen years, stated that he
had never heard Kai Bok-su preach the same sermon twice.

On the whole the students liked their college best when it was moving.
For on the road, while their principal gave much time to the Bible and
how to present the gospel, he would enliven their walks by conversing
about everything by the way and making it full of interest. The
structure of a wayside flower, the geological formation of an
overhanging rock, the composition of the soil of the tea plantations,
the stars that shone in the sky when night came down upon them;--all
these made the traveling college a delight.

Although his days were crammed with work, Mackay found time to make
friends among the European population of the island. They all liked and
admired him, and many of them tried to help the man who was giving his
life and strength so completely to others. They were familiar with his
quick, alert figure passing through the streets of Tamsui, with his
inevitable book and his big ebony cane. And they would smile and say,
"There goes Mackay; he's the busiest man in China." (*)

     * See CHAPTER XIII, Formosa becomes Japanese territory.

The British consul in the old Dutch fort and the English commissioner
of customs proved true and loyal friends. The representatives of foreign
business firms, too, were always ready to lend him a helping hand where
possible. His most useful friends were the foreign medical men. They
helped him very much. They not only did all they could for his own
recovery when malaria attacked him, but they helped also to cure his
patients. Traveling scientists always gave him a visit to get his help
and advice. He had friends that were shipcaptains, officers, engineers,
merchants, and British consuls. Everybody knew the wonderful Kai Bok-su.
"Whirlwind Mackay," some of them called him, and they knew and admired
him with the true admiration that only a brave man can inspire.

The friends to whom he turned for help of the best kind were the English
Presbyterians in south Formosa. They, more than any others, knew his
trials and difficulties. They alone could enter with true sympathy into
all his triumphs. At one time Dr. Campbell, one of the south Formosan
missionaries, paid him a visit. He proved a delightful companion, and
together the two made a tour of the mission stations. Dr. Campbell
preached wherever they went and was a great inspiration to the people,
as well as to the students and to the missionary himself.

One evening, when they were in Kelung, Mackay, with his insatiable
desire to use every moment, suggested that they spend ten days without
speaking English, so that they might improve their Chinese. Dr. Campbell
agreed, and they started their "Chinese only." Next morning from the
first early call of "Liong tsong khi lai," "All, all, up come," not one
word of their native tongue did they speak. They had a long tramp that
morning and there was much to talk about and the conversation was all in
Chinese, according to the bargain. Dr. Campbell was ahead, and after
an hour's talk he suddenly turned upon his companion: "Mackay!" he
exclaimed, "this jabbering in Chinese is ridiculous, and two Scotchmen
should have more sense; let us return to our mother tongue." Which
advice Mackay gladly followed.

His next visitor was the Rev. Mr. Ritchie from south Formosa, one of the
friends who had first introduced him to his work. Every day of his visit
was a joy. With nine of Mackay's students, the two missionaries set out
on a trip through the north Formosa mission that lasted many weeks.

But the more pleasant and helpful such companionship was the more alone
Mackay felt when it was over. His task was becoming too much for one
man. He was wanted on the northern coast, at the southern boundary of
his mission field, and away on the Kap-tsu-lan plain all at once. He
was crowded day and night with work. What with preaching, dentistry,
attending the sick, training his students, and encouraging the new
churches, he had enough on his hands for a dozen missionaries.

But now at last the Church at home, in far-away Canada, bestirred
herself to help him. They had been hearing something of the wonderful
mission in Formosa, but they had heard only hints of it, for Mackay
would not confess how he was toiling day and night and how the work
had grown until he was not able to overtake it alone. But the Church
understood something of his need, and they now sent him the best present
they could possibly give,--an assistant. Just three years after Mackay
had landed in Formosa, the Rev. J. B. Fraser, M. D., and his wife and
little ones arrived. He was a young man, too, vigorous and ready for
work. Besides being an ordained minister, he was a physician as well,
just exactly what the north Formosan mission needed.

Along with the missionary, the Church had sent funds for a house for him
and also one for Mackay. So the poor old Chinese house on the bluff was
replaced by a modern, comfortable dwelling, and by its side another was
built for the new missionary and his family. One room of Mackay's house
was used as a study for his students.

After the houses were built and the new doctor was able to use the
language, he began to fill a long-felt want. Mackay had always done a
little medical work, and the foreign doctor of Tamsui had been most kind
in giving his aid, but a doctor of his own, a missionary doctor, was
exactly what Kai Bok-su wanted. Soon the sick began to hear of the
wonders the missionary doctor could perform, and they flocked to him to
be cured.

It must not be supposed that there were not already doctors in north
Formosa. There were many in Tamsui alone, and very indignant they were
at this new barbarian's success. But the native doctors were about the
worst trouble that the people had to bear. Their medical knowledge, like
their religion, was a mixture of ignorance and superstition, and some
of their practises would have been inexcusable except for the fact that
they themselves knew no better. There were two classes of medical men;
those who treated internal diseases and those who professed to cure
external maladies. It was hard to judge which class did the more
mischief, but perhaps the "inside doctors" killed more of their
patients. Dog's flesh was prescribed as a cure for dyspepsia, a chip
taken from a coffin and boiled and the water drunk was a remedy
for catarrh, and an apology made to the moon was a specific for
wind-roughened skin. For the dreaded malaria, the scourge of Formosa,
the young Canadian doctor found many and amazing remedies prescribed,
some worse than the disease itself. The native doctors believed malaria
to be caused by two devils in a patient, one causing the chills, the
other the fever. One of the commonest remedies, and one that was quite
as sensible as any of the rest, was to tie seven hairs plucked from a
black dog around the sick one's wrist.

But when the barbarian doctor opened his dispensary in Tamsui, a new
era dawned for the poor sick folk of north Formosa. The work went on
wonderfully well and Mackay found so much more time to travel in the
country that the gospel spread rapidly.

But just when prospects were looking so fair and every one was happy
and hopeful, a sad event darkened the bright outlook of the two
missionaries. The young doctor had cured scores of cases, and had
brought health and happiness to many homes, but he was powerless to keep
death from his own door.

And one day, a sad day for the mission of north Formosa, the mother
was called from husband and little ones to her home and her reward in
heaven.

So the home on the bluff, the beautiful Christian home, which was
a pattern for all the Chinese, was broken up. The young doctor was
compelled to leave his patients, and taking his motherless children he
returned with them to Canada.

The church at home sent out another helper. The Rev. Kenneth Junor
arrived one year later, and once more the work received a fresh impetus.
And then, just about two years after Mr. Junor's arrival, Kai Bok-su
found an assistant of his own right in Formosa, and one who was destined
to become a wonderful help to him. And so one bright day, there was a
wedding in the chapel of the old Dutch fort, where the British consul
married George Leslie Mackay to a Formosan lady. Tui Chhang Mai, her
name had been. She was of a beautiful Christian character and for a long
time she had been a great help in the church. But as Mrs. Mackay she
proved a marvelous assistance to her husband.

It had long been a great grief to the missionary that, while the men
would come in crowds to his meetings, the poor women had to be left at
home. Sometimes in a congregation of two hundred there would be only two
or three women. Chinese custom made it impossible for a man missionary
to preach to the women. Only a few of the older ones came out. So the
mothers of the little children did not hear about Jesus and so could not
teach their little ones about him.

But now everything was changed for them. They had a lady-missionary, and
one of their own people too. The Mackays went on a wedding-trip through
the country. Kai Bok-su walked, as usual, and his wife rode in a
sedan-chair. The wedding-trip was really a missionary tour; for they
visited all the chapels, and the women came to the meetings in crowds,
because they wanted to hear and see the lady who had married Kai Bok-su.
Often, after the regular meetings when the men had gone away, the women
would crowd in and gather round Mrs. Mackay and she would tell them the
story of Jesus and his love.

It was a wonderful wedding-journey and it brought a double blessing
wherever the two went. Their experiences were not all pleasant. One
day they traveled over a sand plain so hot that Mackay's feet were
blistered. Another time they were drenched with rain. One afternoon
there came up a terrific wind storm. It blew Mrs. Mackay's sedan-chair
over and sent her and the carriers flying into the mud by the roadside.
At another place they all barely escaped drowning when crossing a
stream. But the brave young pair went through it all dauntlessly. The
wife had caught something of her husband's great spirit of sacrifice,
and he was always the man on fire, utterly forgetful of self.

For two years they worked happily together and at last a great day came
to Kai Bok-su. He had been nearly eight years in Formosa. It was time he
came home, the Church in Canada said, for a little rest and to tell the
people at home something of his great work.

And so he and his Formosan wife said good-by, amid tears and regrets on
all sides, and leaving Mr. Junor in charge with A Hoa to help, they
set sail for Canada. It was just a little over seven years since he had
settled in that little hut by the river, despised and hated by every one
about him; and now he left behind him twenty chapels, each with a native
preacher over it, and hundreds of warm friends scattered over all north
Formosa.

He was not quite the same Mackay who had stood on the deck of the
America seven years before. His eyes were as bright and daring as ever
and his alert figure as full of energy, but his face showed that his
life had been a hard one. And no wonder, for he had endured every kind
of hardship and privation in those seven years. He had been mobbed times
without number. He had faced death often, and day and night since his
first year on the island his footsteps had been dogged by the torturing
malaria.

But he was still the great, brave Mackay and his home-coming was like
the return of a hero from battle. He went through Canada preaching in
the churches, and his words were like a call to arms. He swept over the
country like one of his own Formosan winds, carrying all before him.
Wherever he preached hearts were touched by his thrilling tales, and
purses opened to help in his work. Queen's University made him a Doctor
of Divinity; Mrs. Mackay, a lady of Detroit, gave him money enough to
build a hospital; and his home county, Oxford, presented him with $6,215
with which to build a college.

He visited his old home and had many long talks of his childhood
days with his loved ones. And he was reminded of the big stone in the
pasture-field which he was so determined to break. And he thanked his
heavenly Father for allowing him to break the great rock of heathenism
in north Formosa.

He returned to his mission work more on fire than ever. If he had been
received with acclaim in his native land, his Formosan friends' welcome
was not less warm. Crowds of converts, all his students who were not
too far inland, and among them, Mr. Junor, his face all smiles, were
thronging the dock, many of them weeping for joy. It was as if a
long-absent father had come back to his children.

The work went forward now by leaps and bounds. Mackay's first thought,
after a hurried visit to the chapels and their congregations, was to see
that the hospital and college were built.

All day long the sound of the builders could be heard up on the bluff
near the missionaries' houses, and in a wonderfully short time there
arose two beautiful, stately buildings. Mackay hospital they called one,
not for Kai Bok-su--he did not like things named for him--but in memory
of the husband of the kind lady who had furnished the money for it. The
school for training young men in the ministry was called Oxford College,
in honor of the county whose people had made it possible.

Oxford College stood just overlooking the Tamsui river, two hundred feet
above its waters. The building was 116 feet long and 67 feet wide, and
was built of small red bricks brought from across the Formosa Channel.
A wide, airy hall ran down the middle of the building, and was used as
a lecture-room. On either side were rooms capable of accommodating fifty
students and apartments for two teachers and their families. There
were, besides, two smaller lecture-rooms, a museum filled with treasures
collected from all over Formosa by Dr. Mackay and his students, a
library, a bathroom, and a kitchen.

The grounds about the college and hospital were very beautiful. Nature
had given one of the finest situations to be found about Tamsui, and Kai
Bok-su did the rest. The climate helped him, for it was no great task to
have a luxurious garden in north Formosa. So, in a few years there were
magnificent trees and hedges, and always glorious flower beds abloom all
the time around the missionary premises.

But all this was not accomplished without great toil, and Kai Bok-su
appeared never to rest in those building days. It seemed impossible
that one man should work so hard, he was in Tamsui superintending the
hospital building to-day, and away off miles in the country preaching
to-morrow. He never seemed to get time to eat, and he certainly slept
less than his allotted four hours.

A great disappointment was pending, however, and one he saw coming
nearer every day. The trying Formosan climate was proving too much for
his young assistant, and one sad day he stood on the dock and saw Mr.
Junor, pale and weak and broken in health, sail away back to Canada.

But there was always a brave soldier waiting to step into the breach, and
the next year Kai Bok-su had the joy of welcoming two new helpers, when
the Rev. Mr. Jamieson and his wife came out from Canada and settled in
the empty house on the bluff. Yes, and in time there came to his own
house other helpers--very little and helpless at first they were--but
they soon made the house ring with happy noise and filled the hearts of
their parents with joy.

There were two ladies now to lead in the work for girls and women. Their
sisters in Canada came to their help too. The young men had a school in
Formosa, and why should there not be a school for women and girls? they
asked. And so the Women's Foreign Missionary Society of Canada sent to
Dr. Mackay money to build one. It took only two months to erect it.
It stood just a few rods from Oxford College, and was a fine, airy
building. Here a native preacher and his wife took up their abode and
with the help of Mrs. Mackay and two other native Christian women
they strove to teach the girls of north Formosa how to make beautiful
Christian homes.

And now to the two missionaries every prospect seemed bright. The
college, the girls' school, the hospital, were all in splendid working
order. Mr. and Mrs. Jamieson were giving their best assistance. A Hoa
and the other native pastors were working faithfully. God's blessing
seemed to be showering down upon the work and on every side were signs
of growth. And then, right from this shining sky, there fell a storm
of such fierceness that it threatened to wipe out completely the whole
north Formosan mission.


CHAPTER XI. UNEXPECTED BOMBARDMENT

An enemy's battle-ships off the coast of Formosa! During all the spring
rumors of trouble had been coming across the channel from the mainland.
France (*) and China had been quarreling over a boundaryline in Tongking.
The affair had been settled but not in a way that pleased France. So,
without even waiting to declare war, she sent a fleet to the China Sea
and bombarded some of her enemy's ports. Formosa, of course, came in for
her share of the trouble, and it was early in the summer that the French
battle-ships appeared. They hove in sight, sailing down the Formosa
Channel or Strait one hot day, and instantly all Formosa was in an
uproar of alarm and rage. The rage was greater than the alarm, for China
cordially despised all peoples beyond her own border, and felt that the
barbarians would probably be too feeble to do them any harm. But that
the barbarians should dare to approach their coast with a war-vessel!
That was a terrible insult, and the fierce indignation of the people
knew no bounds. Their rage broke out against all foreigners. They did
not distinguish between the missionary from British soil and the French
soldiers on their enemy's vessels. They were all barbarians alike, the
Chinese declared, and as such were the deadly foe of China. This Kai
Bok-su was in league with the French, and the native Christians all over
Formosa were in league with him, and all deserved death!

     * War in 1844.

So hard days came for the Christians of north Formosa. Wherever there
was a house containing converts, there was riot and disorder. For bands
of enraged heathen, armed with knives and swords, would parade the
streets about them and threaten all with a violent death the moment the
French fired a shot.

In some places near the coast the Christian people dared not leave their
houses, and whenever they sent out their children to buy food, often a
heathen neighbor would catch them, brandish knives over the terrified
little ones' heads and declare they would all be cut to pieces when the
barbarian ships came into port.

Every hour of the day and often in the night, letters came from all
parts of the country to Dr. Mackay. They were brought by runners
who came at great peril of their lives, and were sent by the poor
Christians. Each letter told the same tale; the lives and property of
all the converts were in grave danger if the enemy did not leave. And
they all asked Kai Bok-su to do something to help them.

Now Kai Bok-su was a man with great power and influence both in Formosa
and in his far-off Canada, but he had no means of bringing that power
to bear on the French. And indeed his own life was in as great danger as
any one's.

He wrote to the Christians comforting them and enthusing them with his
own spirit. He bade them all be brave, and no matter what came, danger
or torture or death itself, they must be true to Jesus Christ. He went
about his work in the college or hospital just as usual, though he knew
that any day the angry mob from the town below might come raging up to
destroy and kill.

The French had entered Kelung harbor and the danger was growing more
serious every day when Mackay found it necessary to go to Palm Island,
a pretty islet in the mouth of the Kelung river. It was almost courting
death to go, but he had been sent for, and he went. He found the place
right under the French guns and in the midst of raging Chinese. Some of
the faithful students were there, and they were overcome with joy and
hope at the sight of him. He gathered them about him in a mission
house for prayer and a word of encouragement. Outside the Chinese
soldiers paraded up and down. Sometimes indeed they would burst into the
room and threaten the inmates with violence should the French fire.
Kai Bok-su went on quietly talking to his students. He urged them to be
faithful and reminded them of what their Master suffered at the hands of
a mob for their sake. But, in spite of their brave spirits, the little
company could not help listening for the boom of the French guns. It was
fully expected that the enemy would soon fire, and when they did, the
Christians well knew there would be little chance for them to escape.

But God had prepared a way out of the difficulty. The meeting was
scarcely over when a messenger came in, asking for the missionary. A
Christian on the mainland was very ill and wanted Kai Bok-su to visit
him. Mackay with his students left the island at once and went to the
home of the sick man.

They had been gone but a short time when the thunder of the French
cannon broke over the harbor. The guns from the Chinese fort answered,
and had the missionary been on Palm Island he and his converts would
surely have been killed.

The Chinese were no match for the French gunners. The bombardment
destroyed the fort and killed every soldier who did not manage to get
away. A great shell crashed into the magazine of the fort, and the
explosion hurled masses of the concrete walls an incredible distance.
The city about the fort was completely deserted, for the people fled at
the first sound of the guns.

As soon as the firing was over, the rabble broke loose and a perfect
reign of terror prevailed. The mob carried black flags and swept over
town and country, plundering and murdering. The Christians were of
course the first object of attack, and to tear down a church was the
mob's fiercest joy. Seven of the most beautiful chapels were completely
destroyed and many others injured.

In the town of Toa-liong-pong was the home of Koa Kau, one of Kai
Bok-su's most devoted students. Here was a lovely chapel built at great
expense. The crowd tore it to pieces from roof to foundation. Then, out
of the bricks of the ruin they erected a huge pile, eight feet high;
they plastered it over with mud, and on the face of it, next the highway
where every one might see it, they wrote in large Chinese characters:

     MACKAY, THE BLACK-BEARDED BARBARIAN,
     LIES HERE. HIS WORK IS ENDED.

They knew that the first was not true, but they firmly believed the
latter statement, for they understood little of the power of the gospel.

At Sin-tiam the crowd of ruffians smashed the doors and windows of the
church. Then they took the communion roll and read aloud the names of
the Christians who had been baptized. As each name was announced, some
of the murderers would rush off toward the home of the one mentioned.
Here they would torture and often kill the members of the family. The
native preacher and his family barely escaped with their lives. One good
old Christian man with his wife, both over sixty, were dragged out into
the deep water of the Sin-tiam river. Here they were given a choice.
If they gave up Jesus Christ, their lives would be saved. If they still
remained Christians, they would be drowned right there and then. The
brave old couple refused to accept life at such a cost.

"I'm not ashamed to own my Lord," was a hymn Kai Bok-su had taught them,
and They had meant every word as they had sung it many times in the
pretty chapel by the river. And so they were "not ashamed" now. They
were led deeper and deeper into the water, and at every few feet the way
of escape was offered, but they steadily refused, and were at last flung
into the river--faithful martyrs who certainly won a crown of life.

These were only two among many brave Christians who died for their
Master's sake. Some were put to tortures too horrible to tell to make
them give up their faith. Some were hung by their hair to trees, some
were kicked or beaten to death, many were slashed with knives until
death relieved their pain. And on every side the most noble Christian
heroism was shown. In all ages there have been those who died for their
faith in Jesus Christ; and these Formosan followers of their Master
proved themselves no less faithful than the martyrs of old.

And where was Kai Bok-su while the mob raged over the country? Going
about his work in Tamsui as of old. Only now he worked both night and
day, and the anxiety for his poor converts kept him awake in the few
hours when he might have snatched some sleep. He was here, there,
everywhere at once, it seemed, writing letters to encourage the
Christians in distress, visiting those who were wavering to strengthen
their faith, teaching his students, praying, preaching, night and day,
he never ceased; and always the mob surged about him threatening his
life.

The French ships now sailed out of Kelung harbor and took up
their position opposite Tamsui. Every one knew this probably meant
bombardment, and Dr. Mackay and Mr. Jamieson, standing on the bluff
before their houses, looked at each other and each knew the other's
thought. Bombardment would mean that the mob would come raging up and
destroy both life and property on the hill.

But just as they expected the roar of guns to open, there sailed into
Tamsui harbor a vessel that flew a different flag from the French.
Mackay, looking at her through a glass, made out with joy the crosses
on the red banner of Britain! England had nothing to do with this
Chinese-French war, but as a British vessel can be found lying around
almost any port in the wide world, there of course happened to be one
near Tamsui. She gained a passport into the harbor and sailed in with a
very kindly mission; it was to protect the lives of foreigners, not only
from the French guns, but from the Chinese mobs.

The ship had been in the harbor but a short time when a young English
naval officer, carrying the British flag, came up the path to the houses
on the bluff. Dr. Mackay was in the library of Oxford College, lecturing
to his students, when the visitor entered.

The missionary made the sailor welcome and the young man told his
errand. Dr. Mackay was invited to bring his family and his valuables
and come on board the vessel to be the guest of the captain until the
disturbance was over.

It was a most kindly invitation and Dr. Mackay shook his visitor's hand
warmly as he thanked him. He turned and translated the message to his
students, and their hearts stood still with dismay. If Kai Bok-su, their
stay and support, were to be taken away, what would become of them? But
Kai Bok-su had not changed with the changing circumstances. He was still
as brave and undaunted as though trouble had never come to his island.

He turned to the officer again with a smile. "My family would not be
hard to move," he said, "but my valuables--I am afraid I could not take
them." He made a gesture toward the students standing about him. "These
young men and many more converts scattered all over north Formosa, are
my valuables. Many of them have faced death unflinchingly for my sake.
They are my valuables, and I cannot leave them."

It was bravely said, just as Kai Bok-su might be expected to speak, and
the English officer's eyes kindled with appreciation. The words found
a ready response in his heart. They were the words of a true soldier of
the King. The officer went back to his captain with Mackay's message and
with a deep admiration in his heart for the man who would rather face
death than leave his friends.

So the British man-of-war drew off, leaving the missionaries in the
midst of danger. And almost immediately, with a great bursting roar, the
bombardment from the French ships opened. Sometimes the shells flew
high over the town and up to the bluff, so Dr. and Mrs. Mackay put their
three little ones in a safe corner under the house; but they themselves
as well as Mr. and Mrs. Jamieson, went in and out to and from the
college, and the girls' school as though nothing were happening.

Every day Mackay's work grew heavier and his anxiety for the persecuted
Christians grew deeper. He ate very little, and he scarcely slept at
all. It was not the noise of the carnage about him that kept him awake.
He would have fallen asleep peacefully amidst bursting shells, but he
had no opportunity. The whole burden of the young Church, harassed by
persecution on all sides, seemed to rest upon his spirit. Anxiety
for the Christians in the inland stations from whom he could not hear
weighed on him night and day, and his brave spirit was put to the
severest test.

Only his great strong faith in God kept him up and kept up the spirits
of the converts who looked to him for an example. And a brave pattern
he showed them. Often he and A Hoa paced the lawn in front of the
house while shot and shell whizzed around them. During the worst of the
bombardment they came and went between the college and the house as
if they had charmed lives. One day there was a great roar and a shell
struck Oxford College, shaking it to its foundations. The smoke from
fort and ships had scarcely cleared away when, crash! and the girls'
school was struck by a bursting shell. Next moment there was a fearful
bang and a great stone that stood in front of the Mackays' house went up
into the air in a thousand fragments.

A slave like you never been. You are an enemy of every tyranny And your
sins you have committed even free!

XXVIth Homo sum, I think your body and mind in strict breeding And it
would sharply tried by the devil.

I want my soul with bliss And I Petri Schlüsselamt in the dispute. At
the dining table of the Fugger 'and I go here and cursed Weidlich
pepper sacks them. Städterhochmut hates the' time And all I would like
an urban child privates. At fixed honest morals geb 'I am much more and
indulge the damned dice game. I'm the emperor's loyal subjects, and
advised the Sickingen indignation. The crude law of the fist, I've hated
myself and I fit well on the way. Christian I pray that peace be, And
my delight war and war cries.

The Savior graze all peoples equal to - Just My German begrudge 'I glory
and empire! That means I'm not a sophisticated book, I am a man with
his opposition. XXVIIth Ariost The spring leg' ich weg. Today is a
day, since no line advised me likes! How wend 'I from the long time
curse? A book, Mr. Pastor! A delight book - "At the service, Mr. Knight,
if you understand French?" I could 'it once and I still, to do it.
What the book - "A Welsh architect Las indoors here and there's not
inserted." Roland in fury. Verses, Welsh Gauch? Well, verse can make the
huts as well. Only no bombast, my poet, no frost! Your name is? Ludwig
Ariost. I unknown. Your debut, young blood? Respect! I'm an old man!
Put the hat! You hope that I read you? Wahn! my child. I fly through
the leaves, like the wind. enchanted princesses - Dragonspawn - The
stuff is great for the children well.

What should we have the colorful wonders of time? We now based in
hard fact. A fresh picture! Well, yes - a fine spell! Egg magic! Lush
green entsprießt the book!

Since two people in love are put into it, the leaf turned and they are
alone. Kracht It! A pair of knights, which Lanzen breaks! The Shards fly
to the sun And fall down, burnt black, The helmeted who umgerannt. Hans
Wurst, remaining,! The winning 'the devil you! Mocking you praiseworthy
tournament?

Wes Humanities child? Let's see! Blättre hand! A field gun captured
hero Roland and flight of the ball and the powder blast, as if
they decline of chivalry - the Sickingen's learned that, ah, a sharp
Aimed shot to death niederwarf!

Certainly, much of the powder changed Blitz! And here - this is a big
joke - Here is a guy and swings the Halebard Who's not noticed that
he was killed! With my beard! The image of the old time, nor the weapon,
and Schilt and screams, the young days and fought with Trutz List
And not noticed that she died, I wittre, Welscher your Schlich and
Brauch, Des sharp wit bolt shot, I also From wonderful Mar seh 'And
I laughed a brown eye look Schalke.

A fable world bow and greet you nicely - and make it ridiculous.

What I befehdet with strength of heart, destroy you with the tricks
championship. I am rich' dir on the mountain's hand, My Masters Ludowig
in the French speaking country! mask jokes in your happiness Are you,
like me, a true child of the time. XXVIIIth Am I a poet? The Song of the
Welschen converts full splendor, it hovers as muses and Grazientanz
step. The rhyme of Welschen has a bright peal - Whether I am a poet?

It plagues me today. You doubt, Hutten? Did you one day in Augsburg is
not crowned the Emperor Max? This is true ... Also next to this French
speaking song? Heat 'at the end I just a blacksmith verses? I am a
blacksmith verses! To call 'me! On fire of my wrath forges' I armor
and weapons of the tag needs And verily, my sharp sword cut! XXIX
The last mug of Mr. Konrad Comtur forget me not And his mission laughs
as sunlight. It is whether even in simple straw wrapped, until the
top of the rim is filled with spirit. Instead of a letter, the Convenient
Skilfully me the bottle Rüdesheimer here. Thanks! Once such würz'ge Labe
still, your good, the Pfaffengasse yet. The doctor prescribed me the
jet, Very well, I mine for the last time tonight! Not brauch 'ich dich
to swing, you're pure, You come from the fountain, wooden Becherlein
Mr Ruedesheim, what's on the Rhine? What's The Klerisei of Mainz? You
always durstet? Illustrious, on Swiss soil no pride! Bequemet you
in this vessel of wood! Lab 'I alone am the magic source? Is no one here
in the grass Zechgesell? Alone to drink is hard for me hated, A
Mönchlein yourself about me legally as a guest.
He commanded that their families must be moved at
once from Formosa, as he could not answer for their protection. So at
once preparations for their departure were made, and Mr. Jamieson took
his wife and Mrs. Mackay and her three little ones and sailed away for
Hongkong.

But once more Kai Bok-su stayed behind. It cost him bitter pain to part
with his loved ones, knowing he might never see them again; he was weak
and spent with fever, and his poor body was worn to a shadow, but
he stubbornly refused to leave the men who had stood by him in every
danger. The consul commanded, the doctor pleaded, but no, Kai Bok-su
would not go. If the danger had grown greater, then all the more reason
why he should stay and comfort his people. And if God were pleased to
send death, then they would all die together.

But he was so weak and sick that the doctor feared that if he remained
there would be little chance for the mob to kill him: death would come
sooner. So he came to his stubborn patient with a new proposition. The
Fukien, a merchant steamship, was now lying in Tamsui harbor. She was to
run to Hongkong and back directly. If Mackay would only take that trip,
his physician urged, the sea air would make him new again, and he would
return in a short time and be ready to take up his work once more.

It was that promise that moved Mackay's resolution. His utter weakness
held him down from work, and he longed with all his soul to go out
through the country to help the poor, suffering churches. So he finally
consented to take the short journey and pay a visit to his dear ones in
Hongkong.

He did not get back quite as soon as he intended, for the French
blockade delayed his vessel. But at last he stepped out upon the Tamsui
dock into a crowd of preachers, students, and converts who were weeping
for joy about him and exclaiming over his improved looks.

The voyage had certainly done wonders for him, and at once he declared
he must take a trip into the country and visit those who were left of
the churches.

It was a desperate undertaking, for French soldiers were now scattered
through the country, guarding the larger towns and cities and everywhere
mobs of furious Chinese were ready to torture or kill every foreigner.
But it would take even greater difficulties than these to stop Kai
Bok-su, and he began at once to lay plans for going on a tour.

He first went to the British consul and came back in high spirits with a
folded paper in his hand. He spread it out on the library table before A
Hoa and Sun-a, who were to go with him, and this is what it said:

British Consulate, Tamsui,

May 27th, 1885.

To THE OFFICER IN CHIEF COMMAND OF THE FRENCH FORCES AT KELUNG:

The bearer of this paper, the Rev. George Leslie Mackay, D.D., a British
subject, missionary in Formosa, wishes to enter Kelung, to visit his
chapel and his house there, and to proceed through Kelung to Kap-tsu-lan
on the east coast of Formosa to visit his converts there. Wherefore I,
the undersigned, consul for Great Britain at Tamsui, do beg the officer
in chief command of the French forces in Kelung to grant the said George
Leslie Mackay entry into, and a free and safe passage through, Kelung.
He will be accompanied by two Chinese followers, belonging to his
mission, named, respectively, Giam Chheng Hoa, and Iap Sun. A. FRATER,
Her Britannic Majesty's Consul at Tamsui.

They had all the power of the British Empire behind them so long as they
held that paper. Then they hired a burdenbearer to carry their food,
and Mackay cut a bamboo pole, fully twenty feet long, and on it tied
the British flag. With this floating over them, the little army marched
through the rice-fields down to Kelung.

It was an adventurous journey. But, wonderful though it seemed, they
came through it safely. Poor Kai Bok-su's heart was torn as he saw the
ravages the mob had made on his churches. But what a cheer his heart
received when he found that persecution had strengthened the converts
that were left and everywhere the heathen marveled that men should
die for the faith the barbarian missionary had taught. They were taken
prisoners once for German spies, and led far out of their way. But
they came back to Tamsui safely, having greatly cheered the faithful
Christians who still were true to their Master, Jesus Christ. It was
early in June, just one year from the opening of the war, that the
French sailed away. They were disgusted with the whole affair, the
commander of one vessel told Dr. Mackay, and they were all very glad it
was over.

Mr. and Mrs. Jamieson and Dr. Mackay's family returned to their homes on
the bluff, and work started up again with its old vigor.

But everywhere the heathen were in great glee. Christianity had been
destroyed with the chapels, they were sure. Wherever Mackay went, shouts
of derision followed him, and everywhere he could hear the joyful cry
"Long-tsong bo-khi!" which meant "The mission is wiped out!"

But strange though it may seem, the mission had never been stronger, and
it soon began to assert itself. Dr. Mackay went at the work of repairing
the lost buildings with all the force of his nature. First, he and Mr.
Jamieson and A Hoa sat down and prepared a statement of their losses.
This they sent to the commander-in-chief of the Chinese forces, who had
been responsible for law and order. Without any delay or questioning
of the missionaries' rights, the general sent Dr. Mackay the sum asked
for--ten thousand Mexican dollars. (*)

     *About $5000.

The next thing was to plan the new chapels and see to the building of
them. And before the shouts of "Long-tsong bo-khi" had well started,
they began to be contradicted by walls of brick or stone that rose up
strong and sure to show that the mission had not been wiped out. Three
of the chapels were commenced all at once--at Sintiam, at Bang-kah and
at Sek-khau. Before anything was done Dr. Mackay and a party of his
students went up to Sin-tiam to look over the site. They stood up on the
pile of ruins, surrounded by the Christians, and a crowd of heathen came
around gleefully to watch them in the hopes of seeing their despair.

But to their amazement the little company of Christians led by the
wonderful Kai Bok-su, suddenly burst into a hymn of praise to God who
had brought them safely through all their troubles:

Bless, O my soul, the Lord thy God, And not forgetful be Of all his
gracious benefits He hath bestowed on thee!

The heathen listened in wonder to the words of praise where they had
expected lamentation, and they asked each other what was this strange
power that made men so strong and brave.

And their amazement grew as the chapels, the lovely new chapels of stone
or brick, began to rise from the ruins of the old ones. And not only did
the old ones reappear, new and more beautiful, but as Dr. Mackay and
his native preachers went here and there over the country others peeped
forth like the hepaticas of springtime, until there were not only the
forty original chapels, but in a few years the number had increased to
sixty.

The triumphant shout that the mission had been wiped out ceased
completely, and the people declared that they had been fools to try
to destroy the chapels, for the result had been only bigger and better
ones.

"Look now," said one old heathen, pointing a withered finger to the
handsome spire of the Bang-kah chapel, that lifted itself toward the
sky, "Look now, the chapel towers above our temple. It is larger than
the one we destroyed."

His neighbors crowding about him and gazing up with superstitious awe at
the spire, agreed.

"If we touch this one he will build another and a bigger one," remarked
another man.

"We cannot stop the barbarian missionary," said the old heathen with an
air of conviction.

"No, no one can stop the great Kai Boksu," they finally agreed, and so
they left off all opposition in despair.

Yes, the cry of "Long-tsong bo-khi" had died, and the answer to it was
inscribed on the front of the splendid chapels that sprang up all over
north Formosa. For, just above the main entrance to each, worked out
in stucco plaster, was a picture of the burning bush, and around it in
Chinese the grand old motto:

"Nec tamen consumebatur" ("Yet it was not consumed.")


CHAPTER XII. TRIUMPHAL MARCH

Up and down the length and breadth of north Formosa, seeming to be
in two or three places at once, went Kai Bok-su, during this time of
reviving after the war. He would be in Kelung to-day superintending
the new chapel building, in Tamsui at Oxford College the next day, in
Bangkah preaching a short while after, and no one could tell just
where the next day.

But every one did know that wherever he went, Christians grew stronger
and heathen gave up their idols. The Kap-tsu-lan plain, away on the
eastern coast, seemed to be a sort of pet among all his mission fields,
and he was always turning his steps thither. For the Pe-pohoan who lived
there, while they were simple and warm-hearted and easily moved by the
gospel story, were not such strong characters as the Chinese. So the
missionary felt he must visit them often to help steady their faith.

Not long after the close of the war, he set off on a trip to the
Kap-tsu-lan plain. Besides his students, he was accompanied by a young
German scientist Dr. Warburg had come from Germany to Formosa to collect
peculiar plants and flowers and to find any old weapons or relics of
interest belonging to the savage tribes. All these were for the use of
the university in Germany which had sent him out.

The young scientist was delighted with Dr. Mackay and found in him a
very interesting companion. They met in Kelung, and when Dr. Warburg
found that Dr. Mackay was going to visit the Kap-tsu-lan plain, he
joined his party. The stranger found many rare specimens of orchids on
that trip and several peculiar spear and arrow heads to be taken back as
curios to Germany. But he found something rarer and more wonderful and
something for which he had not come to search.

Alone. He thought that he spoke with a man, who followed the same direction
as her, but something far, as the bride and groom are always in the
garden, because the approach to them is a sign of sin. Al distinguish
Batiste in the middle of the road, the man was delaying his departure
and was away when Roseta arrived with his father. He remained motionless,
with the desire to proceed to the unknown, to meet you. - _ Bona nit,
siñor Batiste!

_ It was the same voice that shy greeted him at noon: _Tomba_ uncle's
grandson. The lad seemed to have no other occupation that roam the
roads to greet the eyes and metérsele with soft sweetness. He looked
at her daughter, enrojecía lowering eyes. - _ Home to home!

I t'arreglaré! _. And with the terrible majesty of the Roman father, sir
all your children, more likely to instill fear than to inspire affection,
began to walk followed by a tremulous Roseta which, when approaching
his hut , I thought beating a safe move. is wrong. The poor father had
no more children at that time in the world to harvest the wheat
sick, shriveled, thirsty, who called loudly asking for a sip not die.

And in this thought while his wife arranged dinner. Roseta went
across occupations pretending not to draw attention, expecting at any
moment the outbreak of cholera parent.

And Batiste still believed in her field, seated at the bedside dwarf,
surrounded by his entire family often that in the light of a lamp looked
with greed pot of steaming cod with potatoes. The woman sighs still
thinking about the fine, and set free comparisons between the
amount doubt that iban fabulous boot and breathing with the whole
family moving their jaws.

Batiste just ate occupied in contemplating the voracity of their own.
Batistet, the eldest son to take over with feigned distraction from the
crust of children. A Roseta, fear gave him a ferocious appetite. Batiste
never understood then as the burden on their backs. Those mouths that
opened to swallow the little savings the family would be left without
food if it came from outside to dry. And all for what? For the
injustice of men, because there are laws to harass honest workers
.... Should not go through this. His family before anyone else. Did
not prepared to defend them from the greatest dangers?

Do not have a duty to maintain ... Man was he able to become a thief to
feed. Why would undergo if it was not stealing, but the salvation of
their harvest, which was very yours? The image of the canal that
dragged a short distance murmurante flow to others, was for him a martyr
. Enfurecíale that life passed along to your door without being
able to use it because they wanted the laws.

Suddenly stood up, as a man who adopts a resolution and to comply with
every hit: - _ A water! To irrigate! _ A woman was shocked, instantly
divining the whole danger of such a desperate resolution. "My goodness,
Batiste! ... He imposed a higher fine, perhaps the court, offended by the
rebellion, they took the water forever. Had to think about it .... It
was better to wait. "Batiste But the anger was strong for men and
phlegmatic cachazudos that when they lose the calm take long to recover.
- _ A water! To irrigate! Batistet _ And, happily repeating the words
of his father, got the hoes and left the hut, followed by her sister
and children. Everyone wanted to take part in this work, which seemed a
feast. The family felt the joy of a people to rebellion regained freedom.
all marched into the canal, that grumbled in the shade. The vast plain
lost in twilight blue, wavy Kannada as the rumors and dark masses,
and the stars blinking in the black.

Batiste got in the ditch up to their knees, placing the barrier that
had to stop the water, while his son, his wife and his daughter to
attack the slopes with hoes, opening holes where the water came bubbling.
The whole family experienced a feeling of freshness and wellbeing.
The earth sang happy with a glu-glu goloso they get to your heart all
of them. 'Baby, baby, poor thing! "And his feet sunk in the mud, bent
on going across the field to see if the water reaches everywhere. Batiste
Mugi with cruel satisfaction that produces the enjoyment of the forbidden
. What weight is removed from above! ... Could now come from the court
and do what they wanted. Drank their field, this was important.
And as his fine ear of a man accustomed to the loneliness felt in
perceiving a disturbing rumor Kannada neighbors, ran to the shack,
to return immediately wielding his new shotgun.

With the weapon on his arm and his finger on the trigger, was more than
an hour near the barrier in the canal.

The water is not going forward will be spilled in the fields of Batiste,
who drank and drank with the thirst of hydropic.

Perhaps the bottom complained, maybe _Pimentó_, noted as' tying 'around
the neighborhood, outraged at the blatant attack on the law. But there
was Batiste as sentinel of his crop, a hero of the desperate
struggle for life , keeping to his own, to be waved on the field
by extending the irrigation escopetazo willing to release a first
attempt to lay the legal barrier restoring the course of the water.

He was so fierce attitude stressing upright in the middle of the
canal, is guessed this black ghost such a resolution to receive the
shots that show that nobody left the immediate Kannada, and drank their
fields for an hour without any protest. What's more strange: the
Thursday following the "tying" is not did appear before the Tribunal de
las Aguas. The garden that he had learned in the former barracks of
_Barret_ the only object of value was a double-barreled shotgun,
purchased recently by the intruder with passion African that
Valencian, which deprives tasty bread because behind the door of
your house a new weapon that excite envy and inspires respect.

V Every day at dawn, jumped out of bed Roseta, Batiste's daughter,
and with eyes swollen by the dream, extending the arms with gentle
desperezos that shook his entire body of slender blonde, opened the
door of the hut.

Garrucha Chillida the hole, barking jumping for joy with their skirts ugly
Perruche passing the night outside the tent, and Roseta in the light of
the latest stars, face and hands thrown into a bucket of cold water taken
out of that dark hole round and crowned at its top by thick bunches
of ivy. Then, in light of the lamp, went and came the hut preparing
his trip to Valencia. The mother still did not see it from bed,
to make all sorts of directions. Could take the leftovers for
dinner, and I find that three sardines in vasar had enough. Beware
of breaking the pot, like the other day. Ah! And do not forget to buy
yarn, needles and some sandals for the small. ¡Creature destrozona more!
... In the drawer of the table find the money. And while the mother was
turned into a bed, gently caressed by the warmth of _estudi_, offering
half-hour more sleep along with big Batiste, who snoring sonorously
, Roseta continued their evolutions. Place in a food basket miserable,
spent a comb for a hair blond clear, as if the sun had eaten their
color, are knotted handkerchief on his beard, and before going back
with a love big brother to see if the boys were well covered, disturbed
by the kids, who slept on the floor of the same _estudi_ and lying in
order from highest to lowest - from big Batistet until barely spoke
pequeñuelo - - seemed a pipe organ. - _Vaya, bye.

     Hasta la nit! _ - The lively girl
     shouted from his arm by the handle of the
     basket and closed the door of the barracks,
     throwing the key on the lower
     window. It was the day.
     Under the steely light of dawn
     veíase by paths and roads laborious marching in the parade one
direction, attracted by the city.

Spent spinners groups cope with a step equal panache moving his right arm,
cutting the air as an oar, and all shrieking in chorus every time
someone greeted mocetón from the nearby fields with loving words. Roseta
marched into the city alone. Well I knew what the poor were his companions,
daughters and sisters of the enemies of his family. Many of them
worked in his factory, and the poor jenn, more than once, making casings
heart, he had to defend scratch cleaner . Taking advantage of their
carelessness, throwing things infected in their food basket, to break
the pot had done several times and not passed to it in the workshop
without stop pushing on Perol smoky cocoon where he was drowned,
and calling hambrona dedicating other similar praise to his family.

On the way all of them fleeing from a throng of furies, and only felt
to be quiet inside the factory, an old farmhouse near the market, whose
facade, painted in fresco in the eighteenth century still retained
desconchaduras and fissures between certain groups of legs pink and tan
faces in profile, the remains of medallions and mythological paintings.
Roseta gives the whole family was the most similar to his father: "a
beast to work, as I said Batiste himself. Mud pots where the heat
of the cocoon subíasele drowned in the lead, scalding the eyes, but
despite this, remained firmly in place, looking at the bottom of the
boiling water in the loose silk blanducha those capsules of a soft
caramel color, inside which had just died cooked the industrious
worm, the larva of precious baba for the crime of making a rich
dungeon for their transformation into butterflies. reigned in the
house a deafening din of work and tiring for Daughters of the garden,
accustomed to the calm of the vast plain, where the voice is
transmitted to long distances.

Mugi down the steam engine, giving bufidos appalling that were transmitted
by the multiple pipes, pulleys and winches rolled with a din of a thousand
devils, and if the noise was not enough, the spinners, according to
custom, they sang in chorus with the voice Gangosa the _Padre nuestro_
the _Ave María_ and _Gloria Patri_ with the same tonadilla called the
Rosario de la Aurora, procession to parade along the paths of the garden
on Sunday at dawn. This devotion does not prevent singing Riesen,
and therefore low between prayer and prayer is to be insulted and
apalabrasen four scratches to the exit, because these girls morenas,
enslaved by the rigid tyranny that reigns in the family farmer and
bound by hereditary always concern to men with eyes low, there were
real demons to be together and unbridled pleased to hold their
tongues heard anything on the roads to highways and Labrador.

Roseta was the most quiet and industrious. To avoid distractions in your
work, it refrained from singing and never caused quarrels. Was so
easy to learn, that within weeks won three actual daily, almost
the maximum wage, with great envy of the others.

As the disheveled young bands emerging from the factory at lunchtime
to swallow the contents of cazuelas portals in their immediate
harassed the men with insolent eyes for them to say something and
scream after falsely outraged, taking with them a shooting of
shamelessness, Roseta stayed behind in a corner of the shop sitting
on the floor, with two or three young they were of another garden,
the right bank of the river, and damned if they were interested in
the history of Uncle _Barret_ and hatred of her.

In the first few weeks, with some terror Roseta saw the arrival of dusk,
and with it time of departure ... Fearing for his companions who
were still the same way, entertained at the factory some time
before letting them go out like a tornado, which started outrageous
laughter, flapping skirts, daring dicharachos odor and health,
Member rough and hard. lazily walked through the streets of the
city in the twilight cold winter buying orders from his mother,
stopping to embobada windows began to light up, and finally, passing
the bridge, it went into the dark alleys of the suburbs to go on
the road Alboraya.

So far everything was going well. But fell in the garden after dark,
with mysterious noises, the dark and disturbing package that passed
greeted with a '_ Bona nit! _ "Grim, and she began to fear and
castañeteo teeth. It scared the silence and darkness. As a good
daughter of the field, was accustomed to them. The certainty that he
was not going to find anyone in the way any given confidence.

In his terror, never thought, as her companions in death, or witches
and ghosts. Those who were concerned about the living. He remembered
with dread certain stories heard in the garden of the factory: the
fear of youth and other _Pimentó_ Jaques those gathered at the home of
_Copa_: desalmados that, taking advantage of the darkness, pushing
the girls alone at the bottom of the dry and the showers were
falling behind the birds.

Roseta And that was no longer innocent after entering the factory, let
your imagination run up to the last limits of what is horrible and
being killed by one of these monsters, with the belly sliced open and the
inside so that children legends that spoke of the orchard, which drew
some mysterious executors of butter, produced miraculous medicine
for the rich.

In the winter twilight, dark and often wet, shivering Roseta saved more
than half way. But the cruelest trance, the most fearsome, was
almost the end, close to his hut, and was the famous tavern _Copa_.
There was the cave of the beast. Was this piece of road the most crowded
and lit. Murmur of voices, bursts of laughter, songs and shouting
guitarreos peeling left by that door red mouth like a furnace,
which showed the way on a black box of light cut by the turmoil of
grotesque shadows. Yet the poor spinner, to get up close and there
undecided stopped, trembling, like the heroines of the tales to the
ogre's cave, ready to go cross-country to turn to the rear of the
building to sink into the ditch along the glide path and lurking on
the slopes, any thing less to spend in front of the red mouth off the
noise of the drunkenness and brutality. At last it was decided. Make an
effort of will, as you are thrown from a height, and on the edge of
the canal, with a slight step and balance that gives portentous
fear, going fast to the tavern.

It was an exhalation, a white shadow not be reached for his speed
in the shady eyes of parishioners _Copa_.

After the tavern, the girl ran and ran, thinking that someone was
going to scope, waiting to feel the tug on your skirt a powerful paw.

It is serene until you hear the barking of his dog shack, that feísimo
animal, which was certainly the antithesis _Lucero_ called, and
which he received in the middle of the road with prances, licking their
hands. Roseta Never guess at his home after the terrors on the road.
The poor girl up gesture to enter the hut, and the questions of
his mother, restless, and courageous by Joanna replied saying he
had reached with some colleagues.

I did not want his father had to go out at night on the road to accompany
. He knew the hatred of the neighborhood, the tavern _Copa_ its
quarrelsome people he inspired fear.

And the next day he returned to the factory, to suffer the same fears
to return, only animated by the hope that spring would come soon, with
their evenings and the long twilight of light that would go back to the
hut before obscured.

One night Roseta experienced some relief. Near the city yet, went on the
road a man who began to march in step with her. - _ Bona nit! _ And
while the spinner was on the high slopes bordering the road, the men
marched by the fund, between the deep furrows opened by the wheels of
cars, broken faced brick, pots and even chipped glass objects, which
wanted hands forward blind bumps remote source. Roseta showed calm:
he had met his partner barely health. Tonet was the grandson of _Tomba_
uncle, the pastor, a good boy, serving as the butcher of Alboraya
servant, and who mocked the spinners to find along the way, pleased
to see how enrojecía, turning his face to the lower floor.

¡shy girl! ... I had no other relatives in the world that his grandfather,
worked until Sunday, and the same went to Valencia to collect manure for
the fields of his master, as he assisted in the killing of cattle
and tilling the soil or brought to the meat rich farmsteads.

All in exchange for Malcolm and his grandfather to go and made a broken,
old clothes with his master. Do not smoke, had two or three times in
their lives at home _Copa_, and Sundays, if I had some spare time,
rather than stand in the square since Alboraya crouches as the
others, seeing handsome young men playing ball field Ibase, wandering
aimlessly in the dense network of trails, and if we find a tree
full of birds, there was embobado by the fluttering and the shrieks
of those bohemians of the orchard.

People saw in him something of extravagance of his mysterious
grandfather the pastor, and we all felt like an unhappy, shy and
docile.

The spinner was encouraged with his company.

Was safer to leave it next to a man, and if this was Tonet, who
inspired confidence.

He spoke, asking where they came from, and the young only knew vaguely
reply with her usual timidity "_D'ahí ... d'ahí_ ... "
They were
afraid to go out far for the waves were wild, they dared not land, for,
crueler than the sea, the head-hunters waited for them on the shore. And
so all that night, taking turns with the rowers, the missionary and his
students toiled against the wind and wave. The dawn came up gray and
stormy, and they were still tossing about among the white billows. No
one had touched food for twenty-four hours. They had rice in the boat,
but there was no place where they dared land to have it cooked. There
was nothing to do but to pull, pull at the oars, and a weary task it
seemed, for the boat appeared to make little headway, and the rowers
barely succeeded in keeping her from being dashed upon the rocks.

They were becoming almost too weak to keep any control over their boat,
when about three o'clock in the afternoon they managed to round a
point. There before them curved a beautiful bay. Behind it and on both
sides arose a perpendicular wall several hundred feet high. At its
foot stretched a narrow sandy beach. It was an ideal spot, secure from
savages both by land and sea. A shout of encouragement from Kai Bok-su
was the one thing needed. Tired arms and aching backs bent to the oars
for one last effort, and when the boat swept up on the sandy beach every
one uttered a heartfelt prayer of thankfulness to the Father who had
provided this little haven in a time of such distress.

The rest of the journey was made safely, and just forty days after their
departure the four missionaries returned, worn out, to Tamsui.


CHAPTER XIII. THE LAND OCCUPIED

But Kai Bok-su had no sooner returned than he was off again. He was not
one of that sort who could settle down after an achievement, content to
rest for a little. He seemed to forget all about what had been done
and was "up and at it again." If he "did not know when he was beaten,"
neither did he seem to know when he was successful; and like Alexander
the Great he was always sighing for new worlds to conquer, yes, and
marching off and conquering them too.

But every time he returned to his work at Tamsui from one of these
tours, it was borne in upon him more forcibly every day that his
faithful assistant who was left in charge, could not long shoulder his
work. Mr. Jamieson was fighting a losing battle with ill health. The
terrible experiences during the war year, the hard work, and the trying
Formosan climate had all combined against him. His brave spirit could
not always sustain the body that was growing gradually weaker, and
one day, a dark, sad day, the devoted soul was set free from the poor
pain-racked body. He had given eight years of hard, faithful work to the
study of the language and to the service of the Master in the mission.
Mrs. Jamieson returned to Canada, and once more Dr. Mackay faced the
work, unaided except by native preachers. But he was not daunted even by
this bereavement, for he always lived in the perfect faith that God was
on his side.

And then, he had by this time three new assistants in the mission-house
on the bluff. They did not even guess that they were any help to him,
for they could never go with him on his mission tours. But by their
sweet merry ways and their joyous welcome to father, when he returned,
they did help him greatly, and made his home-comings a delight.

"How many did you baptize, father?" was baby George's inevitable
question on his father's return. For already the wise toddler had
learned something of the bitter enmity of the heathen world, and knew
that converts meant friends. Then father's home-coming meant presents
too, wonderful things, bows and arrows, rare curios for the museum in
the college, and, once, a pair of the funniest monkeys in the world,
which proved most entertaining playthings for the little boy and his two
sisters. Another time the father brought home a young bear to keep the
monkeys company, but they were not at all polite to their guest, for
they made poor bruin's life miserable by teasing him. They would torment
him until he would stamp with rage. But he was not always badly used,
for when the three children would come out to feed him, he was very
happy, and he would show his pleasure by putting his head between his
paws and rolling over and over like a big ball of fur. And he always
seemed quite proud of his performance when his three little keepers
shrieked with laughter.

The next year after Mr. Jamieson's death the empty mission-house was
once more filled. In September the Rev. Mr. William and Mrs. Gauld
sailed from Canada, and with their arrival Dr. Mackay took new heart.

The new missionaries had learned the language and their work was well
under way when the time came round once more for Dr. Mackay to go back
to Canada for a year's rest. This time there was quite a little party
went with him: his wife, their three children, and Koa Kau, one of his
students.

Among those left to assist Mr. Gauld, there was none he relied upon more
than A Hoa. Mr. Gauld, at the close of his second year's work, wrote of
this fellow worker: "The longer and better I know him, the more I can
love him, trust his honesty, and respect his judgment. He knows his
own people, from the governor of the island to the ragged opium-smoking
beggar, and has influence with them all."

There were many others besides A Hoa to render the missionary faithful
help; among them Sun-a and Tan He, the latter pastor of the church of
Sin-tiam; and just because Kai Bok-su was away they worked the harder,
that he might receive a good report of them on his return.

The separation was longer this time, for Dr. Mackay wished to send his
children to school, and he decided that they would remain in Canada
two years. He was made Moderator of the General Assembly, too, and the
Church at home needed him to stir them up to a greater desire to help
those beyond the seas.

While he was working and preaching in Canada, his heart turned always to
his beloved Formosa, and letters from the friends there were among his
greatest pleasures. A Hoa's of course, were doubly welcome. Pastor Giam,
the name by which he was now called, was Mr. Gauld's right-hand helper
in those days, and once he went alone on a tour away to the eastern
shore. While there he had an adventure of which he wrote to Kai Bok-su.

"The other morning while walking on the seashore I saw a sailing-vessel
slowly drifting shoreward and in danger of being wrecked, for there was
a fog and a heavy sea. I hastened back to the chapel and beat the
drum to call the villagers to worship. As soon as it was over I asked
converts and heathen to go in their fishing-boats as quickly as possible
and let the sailors know they need not fear savages there, and if they
wished to come ashore a chapel would be given them to stay in. The
whole crew came ashore in the boats at once. I gave your old room to the
captain, his wife and child, and other accommodation to the rest. I
then hurried away to a mandarin and asked him to send men to protect the
ship."

When Kai Bok-su read the story and remembered that, twenty-five years
earlier, the crew of that vessel would have been murdered and their ship
plundered, he exclaimed with joy, "Blessed Christianity! Surely,

     Blessings abound where'er He reigns!"

A Hoa had another tale to tell. One afternoon he had a strange
congregation in that little chapel. There were one hundred and forty-six
native converts and twenty-one Europeans. These were made up of seven
nationalities, British, American, French, Danish, Turkish, Swiss, and
Norwegian. Their ship was from America and was bound for Hongkong with
coal-oil.

They were amazed at seeing a pretty, neat chapel away in this
wild, remote place, which they had always supposed was overrun by
head-hunters, and indeed it was just that little chapel that had made
the great change. These men now entered it and joined the natives in
worshiping the true God, where, only a few years before, their blood
would have stained the sands.

A Hoa told them something of the great Kai Bok-su and the struggles
he had had with savages and other enemies, when he first came to this
region. The visitors were very much interested and did not wonder that
the name "Kai Bok-su" was held in such reverence. When they left, the
captain presented the little chapel with a bell, a lamp, and a mirror
which were on board his ship.

The long months of separation were rolling around, when something
happened that brought Kai Bok-su back to his island in great haste. Once
more war swept over Formosa. This time the trouble was between China
and Japan. The big Empire proved no match for the clever Japanese, and
everywhere China was forced to give in.

One of the places which Japan set her affections on was Formosa. She
must have the Beautiful Isle and have it at once. China was in no
position to say no, so the Chinese envoy went on board a Japanese
vessel and sailed toward Formosa. When in sight of its lovely mountains,
without any ceremony he pointed to the land and said, "There it is, take
it." And that was how Formosa became a province of Japan. At noon on May
26, 1895, the dragon flag of China was hauled down from Formosan forts
and the banner of Japan was hoisted.

Of course this was not done without a struggle. The Formosans themselves
fought hard, and in the fight the Christians came in for times of
trouble. So Kai Bok-su, hearing that his "valuables" were again in
danger, set sail for Tamsui.

When he arrived the war was practically over, but everywhere were signs
of strife. As soon as he was able, he took A Hoa and Koa Kau and visited
the chapels all over the country. Everywhere were sights to make his
heart very sad. The Japanese soldiers had used many of the chapels for
military stables, and they were in a filthy state. At one place the
native preacher was a prisoner, the Japanese believing him to be a spy.
At another village the Christians sadly led their missionary out to a
tea plantation and showed him the place where their beloved pastor had
been shot by the Japanese soldiers. Mackay stood beside his grave, his
heart heavy with sorrow.

But his courage never left him. The native Christians everywhere forgot
their woes in the great joy of seeing him once more; and he joined them
in a brave attempt to put things to rights once more. The Japanese paid
for all damages done by their soldiers and in a short time the work was
going on splendidly.

"We have no fear," wrote Dr. Mackay. "The King of kings is greater than
Emperor or Mikado. He will rule and overrule all things."

His faith was rewarded, for when the troublous time was over, the
government of Japan proved better than that of China, and on the whole
the trial proved a blessing.

Oxford College had been closed while Dr. Mackay was away, and the girls'
school had not been opened since the war commenced, for it was not
safe for the girls and women to leave their homes during such disturbed
times. But now both schools reopened, and again Kai Bok-su with his cane
and his book and his crowd of students could be seen going up to the
lecture halls, or away out on the Formosan roads.

He had conquered so often, overcome such tremendous obstacles, and faced
unflinchingly so many awful dangers for the sake of his converts, that
it was no wonder that they adored him, their feeling amounting almost
to worship. "Kai Bok-su says it must be so" was sufficient to compel any
one in the north Formosa Church to do what was required. Surely never
before was a man so wonderfully rewarded in this life. He had given
up all he possessed for the glory of his Master and he had his full
compensation.

A few happy years sped round. The time for him to go back home again was
drawing near when there came the first hint that he might soon be called
on a longer furlough than he would have in Canada.

At first, when the dread suspicion began to be whispered in the halls
of Oxford College and in the chapel gatherings throughout the country,
people refused to believe it. Kai Bok-su ill? No, no, it was only the
malaria, and he always arose from that and went about again. It could
not be serious.

But in spite of the fact that loving hearts refused to accept it, there
was no use denying the sad fact. There was something wrong with Kai
Bok-su. For months his voice had been growing weaker, the doctors had
examined his throat, and attended him, but it was all of no use. At last
he could not speak at all, but wrote his words on a slate.

And everywhere in north Formosa, converts and students and preachers
watched and waited and prayed most fervently that he might soon recover.
Those who lived in Tamsui whispered to each other in tones of dread,
as they watched him come and go with slower steps than they had been
accustomed to see.

"He will be well next month," they would say hopefully, or, "He
will look like himself when the rains dry." But little by little the
conviction grew that the beloved missionary was seriously ill, and a
great gloom settled all over north Formosa. There was a little gleam of
joy when the doctor in Tamsui advised him finally to go to Hongkong and
see a specialist He went, leaving many loving hearts waiting anxiously
between hope and fear to hear what the doctors would say. And prayers
went up night and day from those who loved him. From the heart-broken
wife in the lonely house on the bluff to the farthest-off convert on
the Ki-lai plain, every Christian on the island, even those in the south
Formosa mission, prayed that the useful life might be spared.

But God had other and greater plans for Kai Bok-su. He came back from
Hongkong, and the first look at his pale face told the dreaded truth. The
shadow of death lay on it.

Those were heart-breaking days in north Formosa. From all sides came
such messages of devotion that it seemed as if the passionate love of
his followers must hold him back. But a stronger love was calling him
on. And one bright June day, in 1901, when the green mountainsides, the
blue rivers, and the waving rice-fields of Formosa lay smiling in the
sun, Kai Bok-su heard once more that call that had brought him so far
from home. Once more he obeyed, and he opened his eyes on a new glory
greater than any of which he had ever dreamed. The task had been a hard
one. The "big stone" had been stubborn, but it had been broken, and not
long after the noontide of his life the tired worker was called home.

They laid his poor, worn body up on the hill above the river, beside
the bodies of the Christians he had loved so well. And the soft Formosan
grass grew over his grave, the winds roared about it, and the river and
the sea sang his requiem.

Gallant Kai Bok-su! As he rests up there on his wind-swept height, there
are hearts in the valleys and on the plains of his beloved Formosa and
in his far-off native land that are aching for him. And sometimes to
these last comes the question "Was it well?" Was it well that he should
wear out that splendid life in such desperate toil among heathen that
hated and reviled him? Take you comfortable! There, you are healthy! "Ich
glaub's. One way or another!

True says your mouth. II The first night I heard in a dream's and hear
it still wakes up: A bell Reigen wanders through the night.

Not cathedral bells are dull and heavy, Des conductor herd graze
around me.

They rang from the near Wiesenrain In the realm of my dreams here. I
dreamed of the ancestral castle so beautifully, The umklungen is also
Herdgetön. Twenty years ago, from the fathers house Zog I do with
a bunch of easy hiking.

A good faith piece of work that is done, now raises the herd ringing
again.

The Reigen the cradle surrounded me, echoes back light and closes the
ring destiny. III Hutten household I look 'to me in my room Kämmerlein
And my seven things. I will give each his own place, The blade lay
'me in the corner there.

The spring leg', I pride my best, at this table of raw pine wood.

My whole house unit is scarce here, with sword and pen helped me
and advised me.

In a schwertgewohnten hand sought the spring their feud, as the sword.
Only flew it as the arrow in the enemy army, but I grew up and became
responsible for the spear!

exulting I was, a killing ore, The Priesterlüge right through the heart.
And sword and spring, when my arm tired, Are Hutten entire legacy.
My sword, the longer I may not lead, taking mag's comforted another man
- no finger will affect the spring that Hutten hand!
Jack, "a special collection is taken by the Church for the
work among the Ami--the aborigines of the Ki-lai plain." This is the
foreign mission of the north Formosa Church.

A Hoa lately followed his pastor to the home above, but many others
remain. Mr. Gauld and his family are still there, in the front of the
battle, and with him is a fine corps of soldiers, comprising fifty-nine
native and several Canadian missionaries, including the Rev. Dr. J. Y.
Ferguson and his wife, the Rev. Milton Jack and Mrs. Jack, the Rev. and
Mrs. Duncan MacLeod, Miss J. M. Kinney, Miss Hannah Connell, Miss Mabel
G. Clazie, and Miss Lily Adair. Miss Isabelle J. Elliott, a graduate
nurse, and deaconess, will join the staff shortly, and a few others
will be sent when secured, in order that the force may be sufficient to
evangelize the million people in north Formosa.

Mrs. Mackay and her two daughters, Helen and Mary, the latter having
married native preachers, Koa Kau and Tan He, are keeping up the work
that husband and father left. A new hospital is being built under Dr.
Ferguson, and plans are on foot for new school and college buildings.

And the latest arrived missionary? What of him? Why his name is George
Mackay, and he has just sailed from Canada as the first Mackay sailed
forty-one years earlier. He has been nine years in Canada and the United
States, at school and college, and now with his Canadian wife, has gone
back to his native land. I cried. She looked at me with her big dark eyes.
"B'hüt God!" she said, "but i did nit know what Aussa rumkraxln sity,
where, therefore, for thou comest?"

"I - I go walking, Lisei! - But tell me, because it plays comedy now?"
It is the echo from the
hearts of other boys, who have read his noble life. And their answer is,
"We too will go out, as he went, and fight and win!"