  YE martial pow'rs, and all ye tuneful nine,
  Inspire my song, and aid my high design.
  No other suit ever sold has, in so short a time,
  become so universal a favorite. These Knitted
  Suits are not only the most comfortable
  and pleasant to wear, but are the most
  becoming and graceful in appearance.
  For sale in New York only by 
JAMES McCREERY & CO.Now front to front the armies were display'd,
  Here Israel rang'd, and there the foes array'd;
  The hosts on two opposing mountains stood,
  Thick as the foliage of the waving wood;
  Between them an extensive valley lay,
  O'er which the gleaming armour pour'd the day,
  When from the camp of the Philistine foes,
  Dreadful to view, a mighty warrior rose;
  In the dire deeds of bleeding battle skill'd,
  The monster stalks the terror of the field.
  From Gath he sprung, Goliath was his name,
  Of fierce deportment, and gigantic frame:
  A brazen helmet on his head was plac'd,
  A coat of mail his form terrific grac'd,
  The greaves his legs, the targe his shoulders prest:
  Dreadful in arms high-tow'ring o'er the rest
  A spear he proudly wav'd, whose iron head,
  Strange to relate, six hundred shekels weigh'd;
  He strode along, and shook the ample field,
  While Phoebus blaz'd refulgent on his shield:
  Through Jacob's race a chilling horror ran,
  When thus the huge, enormous chief began:
    "Say, what the cause that in this proud array
  "You set your battle in the face of day?
  "One hero find in all your vaunting train,
  "Then see who loses, and who wins the plain;
  "For he who wins, in triumph may demand
  "Perpetual service from the vanquish'd land:
  "Your armies I defy, your force despise,
  "By far inferior in Philistia's eyes:
  "Produce a man, and let us try the fight,
  "Decide the contest, and the victor's right."
    Thus challeng'd he: all Israel stood amaz'd,
  And ev'ry chief in consternation gaz'd;
  But Jesse's son in youthful bloom appears,
  And warlike courage far beyond his years:
  He left the folds, he left the flow'ry meads,
  And soft recesses of the sylvan shades.
  Now Israel's monarch, and his troops arise,
  With peals of shouts ascending to the skies;
  In Elah's vale the scene of combat lies.
    When the fair morning blush'd with orient red,
  What David's fire enjoin'd the son obey'd,
  And swift of foot towards the trench he came,
  Where glow'd each bosom with the martial flame.
  He leaves his carriage to another's care,
  And runs to greet his brethren of the war.
  While yet they spake the giant-chief arose,
  Repeats the challenge, and insults his foes:
  Struck with the sound, and trembling at the view,
  Affrighted Israel from its post withdrew.
  "Observe ye this tremendous foe, they cry'd,
  "Who in proud vaunts our armies hath defy'd:
  "Whoever lays him prostrate on the plain,
  "Freedom in Israel for his house shall gain;
  "And on him wealth unknown the king will pour,
  "And give his royal daughter for his dow'r."
    Then Jesse's youngest hope: "My brethren say,
  "What shall be done for him who takes away
  "Reproach from Jacob, who destroys the chief.
  "And puts a period to his country's grief.
  "He vaunts the honours of his arms abroad,
  "And scorns the armies of the living God."
    Thus spoke the youth, th' attentive people ey'd
  The wond'rous hero, and again reply'd:
  "Such the rewards our monarch will bestow,
  "On him who conquers, and destroys his foe."
    Eliab heard, and kindled into ire
  To hear his shepherd brother thus inquire,
  And thus begun: "What errand brought thee? say
  "Who keeps thy flock? or does it go astray?
  "I know the base ambition of thine heart,
  "But back in safety from the field depart."
    Eliab thus to Jesse's youngest heir,
  Express'd his wrath in accents most severe.
  When to his brother mildly he reply'd.
  "What have I done? or what the cause to chide?
    The words were told before the king, who sent
  For the young hero to his royal tent:
  Before the monarch dauntless he began,
  "For this Philistine fail no heart of man:
  "I'll take the vale, and with the giant fight:
  "I dread not all his boasts, nor all his might."
  When thus the king: "Dar'st thou a stripling go,
  "And venture combat with so great a foe?
  "Who all his days has been inur'd to fight,
  "And made its deeds his study and delight:
  "Battles and bloodshed brought the monster forth,
  "And clouds and whirlwinds usher'd in his birth."
  When David thus: "I kept the fleecy care,
  "And out there rush'd a lion and a bear;
  "A tender lamb the hungry lion took,
  "And with no other weapon than my crook
  "Bold I pursu'd, and chas d him o'er the field,
  "The prey deliver'd, and the felon kill'd:
  "As thus the lion and the bear I slew,
  "So shall Goliath fall, and all his crew:
  "The God, who sav'd me from these beasts of prey,
  "By me this monster in the dust shall lay."
  So David spoke.  The wond'ring king reply'd;
  "Go thou with heav'n and victory on thy side:
  "This coat of mail, this sword gird on," he said,
  And plac'd a mighty helmet on his head:
  The coat, the sword, the helm he laid aside,
  Nor chose to venture with those arms untry'd,
  Then took his staff, and to the neighb'ring brook
  Instant he ran, and thence five pebbles took.
  I am convinced that if courts were better
  the standard of play would advance
  more rapidly. It is marvellous what beneficial
  effect a good court has on play. I have
  seen an average player, who had always played
  on bad courts, with cramped surroundings and
  poor background, put up a really good
  game the very first time he played on
  a first-class court--I refer to a well-known
  private court at Thorpe Satchville, perhaps
  the best in the country. That player surprised
  himself and every one else present.
  He performed about half-thirty better than his
  usual game. The moral is that if other players
  had the opportunity of playing regularly on
  a true and fast court they must essentially
  improve. On bad courts you can never be sure
  what the ball will do; it is a toss-up
  whether you get a false bound or not. A
  player once told me that he thought it a
  good thing to have these bad courts at your house or
    club to practise upon.
  When you went to tournaments, he argued, you
  would not mind what you found there, as the
  conditions could not be worse, and
  might be better, and you would always be
  in the happy frame of mind of not expecting too
  much and never being disappointed. Your game
    would not be put off by depressing
  conditions--you were so used to them!
    But that is poor logic.
  After all, we play the game for pleasure, and
  there can be no enjoyment in playing on wretched
  courts. Many unfortunate players, if they wish
  to play the game at all, are forced to
  play on what Mr. Mahony used to call "cabbage
  patches"--("Sorry, partner, it hopped on a
  cabbage," was his favourite expression after
    missing a ball in a double); but I cannot
  understand any one voluntarily choosing
  such a surface.
  
  A wood floor has such an absolutely true
  bound that it must provide very good practice,
  and one winter's play on the indoor courts at
  Queen's Club is to my mind a quicker way
  of improving your game than two or three
  seasons on grass courts which are not of the
  best. These covered wood courts are very scarce,
  and it is a thousand pities there are so few of
    them.
  Would that this winter game were in the
  reach of everybody!
    On the other hand, you can overdo the game
  by playing continuously; and if you
  have been playing all through the summer
  with scarcely a break, it is a good plan
  to rest during the winter months, taking up some
  other game to keep your eye in and your condition
    fit.
  
  Since true grass courts are so scarce in this
  country, I sometimes wish we could dispense with
  turf altogether, and have at our tournaments the
  same surface which finds favour abroad, at
  places like Cannes, Homburg, and Dinard.
  The bound of the ball on these courts
  is absolutely uniform, the surface being
  hard sand. One great advantage they possess--we
  should welcome it over here--is that when
  it rains play is quite out of the question.
  Wading about in the mud and playing in a steady
  downpour, often our lot in England, is unknown on
    the Continent. And foreign courts also dry
  quickly after rain, and often play better for
    their
  watering.
  
  
  CHAPTER V
  
  TOURNAMENT AND CLUB MANAGEMENT
  I wish an "Order of Play" could be used
    more at English tournaments.
  That is to say, I wish matches could be arranged to take
  place at a certain hour, following the plan
  adopted at Wimbledon and at all the
  meetings on the Continent. Such an arrangement
  would greatly add to the comfort and enjoyment
  of competitors, and would, I imagine, be
  a great boon to the referee. Spectators,
  I know, would welcome it. I think a time-table
  might prove unworkable where handicap
  events are concerned, but in the case of open
  events I feel sure it could be introduced with
  great advantage to all concerned. I have so
  often sat hour after hour at a London tournament
  (having only entered for the open events),
  perhaps playing one match, perhaps not
  playing at all. If I had been told overnight
  that I should not be wanted, or exactly at what
  hour my match would take place, it
  would have been so much more satisfactory
  and saved so much wasted time. This waiting
  about takes away half the pleasure of playing in London meetings.
Even if there are good matches going on you do not care to watch
them incessantly; there may be a chance of your playing off a tie,
and it would tend to put your eye out. On one occasion, having a
long way to go to a tournament in which I was only entered for the
open mixed doubles, I telephoned to know whether I should be wanted
or not. "Well," replied the referee, "if I call you and you are not
on the ground, I shall scratch you. In your own interest you had
better come over." For my partner's sake, as well as my own, I was
bound to go. As I expected, I sat the whole afternoon and evening
doing absolutely nothing."Then take the promis'd gifts," the monarch cry'd,
  Conferring riches and the royal bride:
  "Knit to my soul for ever thou remain
  "With me, nor quit my regal roof again."


  Thoughts on the WORKS OF PROVIDENCE.

  A R I S E, my soul, on wings enraptur'd, rise
  To praise the monarch of the earth and skies,
  Whose goodness and benificence appear
  As round its centre moves the rolling year,
  Or when the morning glows with rosy charms,
  Or the sun slumbers in the ocean's arms:
  Of light divine be a rich portion lent
  To guide my soul, and favour my intend.
  Celestial muse, my arduous flight sustain
  And raise my mind to a seraphic strain!
    Ador'd for ever be the God unseen,
  Which round the sun revolves this vast machine,
  Though to his eye its mass a point appears:
  Ador'd the God that whirls surrounding spheres,
  Which first ordain'd that mighty Sol should reign
  The peerless monarch of th' ethereal train:
  Of miles twice forty millions is his height,
  And yet his radiance dazzles mortal sight
  So far beneath--from him th' extended earth
  Vigour derives, and ev'ry flow'ry birth:
  Vast through her orb she moves with easy grace
  Around her Phoebus in unbounded space;
  True to her course th' impetuous storm derides,
  Triumphant o'er the winds, and surging tides.
    Almighty, in these wond'rous works of thine,
  What Pow'r, what Wisdom, and what Goodness shine!
  And are thy wonders, Lord, by men explor'd,
  And yet creating glory unador'd!
    Creation smiles in various beauty gay,
  While day to night, and night succeeds to day:
  That Wisdom, which attends Jehovah's ways,
  Shines most conspicuous in the solar rays:
  Without them, destitute of heat and light,
  This world would be the reign of endless night:
  In their excess how would our race complain,
  Abhorring life! They are _heavy bodied_, and for
  work that does not require an extra heavy coat,
  they can be thinned (with our Old Fashioned
  Kettle-boiled Linseed Oil) and still cover
  better than most of the mixed paints sold in
    the market, many of which have so little stock
  in them that they will not give a good
  solid coat.
  
  Some manufacturers of mixed paints direct NOT
  to rub out the paint, but to FLOW it on; the
    reason being that if such stuff were
  rubbed out there would be but little left to
  cover, would be transparent. Our Cottage
  Colors have great strength or body, and,
  like any good paint, should be worked out
  well under the brush. The covering property of this paint is so
excellent as to allow this to be done.The sable veil, that Night in silence draws,
  Conceals effects, but shows th' Almighty Cause,
  Night seals in sleep the wide creation fair,
  And all is peaceful but the brow of care.
  Again, gay Phoebus, as the day before,
  Wakes ev'ry eye, but what shall wake no more;
  Again the face of nature is renew'd,
  Which still appears harmonious, fair, and good.
  May grateful strains salute the smiling morn,
  Before its beams the eastern hills adorn!
    Shall day to day, and night to night conspire
  To show the goodness of the Almighty Sire?
  This mental voice shall man regardless hear,
  And never, never raise the filial pray'r?
  It would therefore appear that this said
  Nicolas Morse was a descendant of General
       Ireton. I wish to ascertain if this
  assumption be correct; and, if correct, when
  and how the families of Morse and
  Ireton became connected? If any of your
  correspondents can furnish information
  on this {186} subject, or acquaint me
  where I can find any account or pedigree of
  the Morse family, I shall feel much indebted to them.

PURSUIVANT.
_Earl of Shaftesbury._--I have read with great interest Lord
Shaftesbury's letter to Le Clerc, published in No. 67."Let there be light," he said: from his profound
  Old Chaos heard, and trembled at the sound:
  Swift as the word, inspir'd by pow'r divine,
  Behold the light around its Maker shine,
  The first fair product of th' omnific God,
  And now through all his works diffus'd abroad.
       C. H. P.
  
  Brighton.
  
  _Lord Bexley--how descended from Cromwell?_--In
  the notice of the late Lord Bexley in _The Times_, it is stated
that he was _maternally_ descended from Oliver Cromwell, the
Protector, through the family of Cromwell's son-in-law, Ireton.Hear in soft strains the dreaming lover sigh
  To a kind fair, or rave in jealousy;
  On pleasure now, and now on vengeance bent,
  The lab'ring passions struggle for a vent.
  What pow'r, O man! thy reason then restores,
  So long suspended in nocturnal hours?
  What secret hand returns the mental train,
  And gives improv'd thine active pow'rs again?
  From thee, O man, what gratitude should rise!
  _--On the one hand, it is highly improbable that
  Queen Elizabeth should employ a popish commander
  against the Spaniards.
  
  1. The silence of Dr. Lingard and other historians
  is also negatively in favour of his being a Protestant.Among the mental pow'rs a question rose,
  "What most the image of th' Eternal shows?"
  When thus to Reason (so let Fancy rove)
  Her great companion spoke immortal Love.