"Mr. Klutchem says, 'Walk up,'" said the maid.

The broker was in an armchair with his back to the door, only the top
of his bald head being visible as we entered. On a stool in front
rested a foot of enormous size swathed in bandages. Leaning against
his chair were a pair of crutches. He was somewhat startled at the
invasion, made as it was in the busiest part of the day.

"What's up? Anybody busted?"

Fitz assured him that the Street was in a mood of the greatest
tranquillity; that the visit was purely personal, and made for the
express purpose of offering Colonel Carter an opportunity of relieving
his mind of a pressure which at the precise moment was greater than
he could bear.

"Out with it, old Garden--Colonel," broke out Klutchem, catching himself
in time, and apparently greatly relieved that the situation was no
worse.

The colonel, who remained standing, bowed courteously, drew himself
up with a dress-parade gesture, and recounted slowly and succinctly
the incidents of the preceding three days.

When he arrived at the drawing-up of the challenge, Klutchem looked
around curiously, gathered in his crutches with his well leg,--prepared
for escape or defense,--and remained thus equipped until the colonel
reached the secret consultation in the private office and the return
of the unstamped letter. Then he toppled his supports over on the
floor, and laughed until the pain in his elephantine foot bent him
double.

The colonel paused until Klutchem had recovered himself, and then
continued, his face still serene, and still expressive of a purpose
so lofty that it excluded every other emotion.

"The return of my challenge unopened, suh, coupled with the broad views
of my distinguished friends Mr. Fitzpatrick and the major,--both
personal friends of yo' own, I believe,--and the calmer reflection of
my own mind, have convinced me, Mr. Klutchem, that I have been hasty
and have done you a wrong; and, suh, rememberin' my blood, I have left
the cares of my office for a brief moment to call upon you at once,
and tell you so. I regret, suh, that you have not the use of both yo'
legs, but I have anticipated that difficulty. My caarriage is outside."

"Don't mention it, Colonel. You never grazed me. If you want to plaster
that syndicate all over with Garden Spots, go ahead. I won't say a
word. There's my hand."

The colonel never altered a line in his face nor moved a muscle of his
body. Mr. Klutchem's hand remained suspended in mid air.

"Yo' action is creditable to yo' heart, suh, but you know, of course,
that I cannot take yo' hand here. I insulted you in a public office,
and in the presence of yo' friends and of mine, some of whom are at
this moment awaitin' our return. I feel assured, suh, that under the
circumstances you will make an effort, however painful it may be to
you, to relieve me from this stain on my cha'acter. Allow me to offer
you my arm, and help you to my caarriage, suh. I will not detain you
mo' than an hour."

[Illustration]

Klutchem looked at him in perfect astonishment.

"What for?"

The colonel's color rose.

"That this matter may be settled properly, suh. I insulted you publicly
in my office. I wish to apologize in the same way. It is my right,
suh."

"But I can't walk. Look at that foot,--big as a hatbox."

"My friends will assist you, suh. I will carry yo' crutches myself.
Consider my situation. You surely, as a man of honor, will not refuse
me this, Mr. Klutchem?"

The colonel's eyes began to snap, and Fitz edged round to pour oil
when the wind freshened. Klutchem's temper was also on the move.

"Get out of this chair with that mush poultice," pointing to his foot,
"and have you cart me down to Wall Street to tell me you are sorry you
didn't murder me! What do you take me for?"

The colonel's eyes now fairly blazed, and his voice trembled with
suppressed anger.

"I did take you, suh, for a gentleman. I find I am mistaken. And you
refuse to go, and"--

"Yes!" roared Klutchem, his voice splitting the air like a tomahawk.

"Then, suh, let me tell you right here that if you do not get up now
and get into my caarriage, whenever you _can_ stand on yo' wuthless
legs, I will thresh you so, suh, that you will never get up any mo'."

[Illustration]


CHAPTER IX

_A Visit of Ceremony_


The Honorable I. B. Kerfoot, presiding judge of the district court of
Fairfax County, Virginia, and the gallant Major Thomas C. Yancey, late
of the Confederate army, had been the colonel's guests at his hospitable
house in Bedford Place for a period of six days and six nights, when
my cards--two--were given to Chad, together with my verbal hopes that
both gentlemen were within.

My visit was made in conformity with one of the colonel's inflexible
rules,--every guest under his roof, within one week of his arrival,
was to be honored by a personal call from every friend within reach.

No excuse would have sufficed on the ground of flying visits. And
indeed, so far as these particular birds of passage were concerned,
the occupation was permanent, the judge having taken possession of the
only shake-down sofa on the lower floor, and the warlike major having
plumped himself into the middle of the colonel's own bed not ten minutes
after his arrival. Even to the casual Northern eye, unaccustomed to
the prolonged sedentary life of the average Virginian when a guest,
there was every indication that these had come to stay.

Chad laid both of my cards on the table, and indulged in a pantomime
more graphic than spoken word. He shut his eyes, laid his cheek on one
hand, and gave a groan of intense disgust, followed by certain gleeful
chuckles, made the more expressive by the sly jerking of his thumb
towards the dining room door and the bobbing up and down of his
fore-finger in the direction of the bedroom above.

"Bofe in. Yes, sah! Bofe in, an' bofe abed. Last I yeard from em' dey
was hollerin' for juleps."

I entered the dining-room and stopped short. On a low sofa at the far
end of the room lay a man of more than ordinary girth, with coat, vest,
and shoes off, his face concealed by a newspaper. From beneath this
sheet came, at regular intervals, a long-drawn sound like the subdued
puff of a tired locomotive at rest on a side-track. Beside him was an
empty tumbler, decorated with a broken straw and a spray of withered
mint.

The summer air fanned through the closed blinds of the darkened room,
and played with the silvery locks that straggled over the white pillow;
the paper rose and fell with a crinkling noise, keeping time to the
rhythm of the exhaust. Beyond this there was no movement. The Hon. I.
B. Kerfoot was asleep.

I watched the slowly heaving figure for a moment, picked up a chair,
and gently closed the door. I could now look the colonel in the face
so far as the judge was concerned. My account with the colonel was
settled.

Retiring to the yard outside, which was cool and shady, and, despite
its dilapidated appearance, a grateful relief from the glare of the
street, I tilted my chair against the dissipated wall, with its damaged
complexion of scaling white-wash, and sat down to await the colonel's
return.

Meanwhile Chad busied himself about the kitchen, moving in and out the
basement door, and at last brought up a great tin pan, seated himself
on the lower step, and proceeded to shell pease, indulging all the
while in a running commentary on the events of the preceding week.

One charm in Chad's conversation was its clearness. You always absorbed
his meaning. Another was its reliability. When he finished you had the
situation in full.

First came the duel.

"So dat Ketchem man done got away? Doan' dat beat all! An' de colonel
a-mak-in' his will an' a-rubbin' up his old barkers. Can't have no fun
yer naaway; sumpin' allers spiles it. But yer oughter seen de colonel
dat day w'en he come home! Sakes alive, warn't he b'ilin'! Much as
Jedge Keerfoot could do to keep him from killin' dat Yankee on de
street."

Chad's long brown fingers fumbled among the green pea-shells, which
he heaped up on one side of the pan, and the conversation soon changed
to his master's "second in the field." I encouraged this divergence,
for I had been charged by Fitz to find out when these two recent
additions to the household in Bedford Place intended returning to their
native clime; that loyal friend of the colonel being somewhat disturbed
over their preparations for what promised to be a lengthy stay.

"'Fo' de Lawd, I doan' know! Tom Yancey nebber go s'long as de mint
patch hol' out, an' de colonel bought putty near a ba'el ob it dis
mawnin', an' anudder dimi-john from Mister Grocerman. Makes my blood
bile to see dese Yanceys, anyhow. See dat carpet bag w'at he fotch wid
him? Knowed w'at he had in it w'en he opened its mouf an' de jedge tuk
his own clo'es outen it? A pair ob carpet slippers, two collars, an'
a lot ob chicken fixin's. Not a shirt to his back 'cept de one, he had
on! Had to stay abed yisteddy till I i'oned it. Dar's one ob his collars
on de line now. Dese yer Yanceys no 'count no way. Beats de lan' how
de colonel can put up wid 'em, 'cept his faader was quality. You know
de old gineral married twice, de las' time his oberseer's daughter.
Dat's her chile--Tom Yancey--'sleep now on de colonel's bed upstairs
wid a straw in his mouf like a shote. But de colonel say 'tain't Tom's
fault dat he takes after his mammy; he's a Yancey, anyhow. But I tell
you, Major, Miss Nancy doan' hab nuffin' much to do wid 'im,--she can't
abide 'im."

"How long are they going to stay, Chad?" I asked, wishing to make a
definite report to Fitz.

"Doan' know. Ole groun'-hog mighty comf'ble in de hole." And he heaped
up another pile of shells.

"Fust night de jedge come he tol' de colonel dat Miss Nancy say we all
got to come home when de month's up, railroad or no railroad. Dat was
a week ago. Den de jedge tasted dat Madary Mister Grocerman sent, an'
I ain't yerd nuffin' 'bout goin' home since. Is you yerd, Major?"

Before I could answer, a shutter opened overhead and a voice came
sifting down.

"O Chad! Mix me a julep. And, Chad, bring an extra one for the colonel.
I reckon he'll be yer d'reckly."

"Yes, sah," replied Chad, without lifting his eyes from the pan.

Then glancing up and finding the blind closed again, he said to me in
a half-whisper:--

"Colonel get his julep when he ax fur it. I ain't caayin' no double
drinks to nobody. Dis ain't no camp-meetin' bar."

But Chad's training had been too thorough to permit of his refusing
sustenance or attention to any guest of his master's, no matter how
unworthy, and it was not many minutes before he was picking over "de
ba'el" containing that peculiar pungent variety of plant so common to
the graveyards of Virginia.

Before the cooling beverage had been surmounted by its delicate
mouthpiece the street gate opened and the colonel walked briskly in.

"Ah, Major! You here? Jes the vehy man we wanted, suh! Fitz and the
English agent are comin' to dinner. You have heard the news, of co'se?
No? Not about the great syndicate absorbin' the Garden Spots? My dear
suh, she's floated! The C. & W. A. L. R. R. is afloat, suh! Proudly
ridin' the waves of prosperity, suh. Wafted on by the breeze of
success."

"What, bought the bonds?" I said, jumping up.
"Well, not exactly bought them outright, for these gigantic operations
are not conducted in that way; but next to it, suh. To-day,"--and he
brought his hand down softly on my shoulder,--"to-day, suh, they have
cabled their agent--the same gentleman, suh, you saw in my office some
time ago--to make a searchin' investigation into the mineral and
agricultural resources of that section of my State, with a view to
extendin' its railroad system. I quote, suh, the exact words: 'extendin'
its railroad system.' Think, my dear Major, of the effect that a
colossal financial concern like the great British syndicate would
produce upon Fairfax County, backed as it is, suh, by untold millions
of stagnant capital absolutely rottin' in English banks! The road is
built!" And the colonel in his excitement opened his waistcoat, and
began pacing the yard, fanning himself vigorously with his hat.

Chad substituted a palm-leaf fan from the hall table, and, producing
a small tray, picked up the frosted tumbler and mounted the three steps
to relieve the thirsty guest on the floor above.

As he reached the last step a hand stretched out, and a voice said:--

"Jes what I wanted."

"Dis julep, Jedge, is Major Yancey's."

"All the better." And nodding to the colonel and bowing gravely to me,
the Hon. I. B. Kerfoot settled himself on the top of the front steps
with very much the same air with which he would have occupied his own
judicial bench.

With the exception that this julep was just begun and tile other just
ended, his Honor presented precisely the same outward appearance as
when I discovered him asleep on the sofa.

His was, in fact, the extremest limit of dishabille permissible even
on the hottest of summer afternoons in the most retired of back
yards,--no coat, no vest, no shoes. In one hand he held a crumpled
collar and a high, black silk stock; with the other he grasped the
julep. His hair was tousled, his face shriveled up and pinched by his
heavy nap, his eyes watery and vague. He reminded me of the man one
sometimes meets in the aisle of a sleeping-car when one boards the
train at a way station in the night.

"I hope you have had a refreshin' sleep, Jedge," said the colonel. "My
friend the major here did himself and me the honor of callin' upon
you, but findin' that you were restin', suh, he sought the cool of my
co'teyard until you should awake."

His Honor looked at me over the edge of his tumbler and bowed feebly.
The straw remained glued to his mouth.

"I have been tellin' him, suh, of the extr'o'd'nary boom to-day in
Garden Spots, as some of my young friends call the secu'ities of my
new road, work upon which will be begun next week."

The announcement made no impression upon the judge, his face remaining
sleepily stolid until that peculiar gurgling sound, the death-rattle
of a dying julep, caused a shade of sadness to pass over it.

At that instant the shutter again opened overhead.

"Hello, Colonel! Home, are you? Chad, where's my julep? Ah, Major,
hope I see you vehy well, suh. Where's Kerfoot?"

That legal luminary craned his head forward as far as it would go
without necessitating any additional movement of his body, caught
Yancey's eye as he leaned out of the window, and held up the empty
glass.

When everybody had stopped laughing the colonel made a critical but
silent examination of the judge, called to Yancey, and said:--

"Gentlemen, we do not dine until seven. You will both have ample time
to dress."


CHAPTER X

_Chad in Search of a Coal-Field_


The colonel was the first man downstairs. When he entered I saw at a
glance that it was one of his gala nights, for he wore the ceremonial
white waistcoat and cravat, and had thrown the accommodating coat wide
open. His hair, too, was brushed back from his broad forehead with
more than usual care, each silver thread keeping its proper place in
the general scheme of iron-gray; while his goatee was twisted to so
fine a point that it curled upward like a fishhook. He had also changed
his shoes, his white stockings now being incased in low prunellas tied
with a fresh ribbon, which hung over the toes like the drooping ears
of a lapdog.

