MAN-SIZE

BY

WILLIAM MACLEOD RAINE

AUTHOR OF

THE BIG-TOWN ROUND UP,

OH, YOU TEX! ETC

1922


TO

CAPTAIN SIR CECIL E. DENNY, BART.

OF THE FIRST THREE HUNDRED RIDERS OF THE PLAINS

WHO CARRIED LAW INTO THE LONE LANDS

AND MADE THE SCARLET AND GOLD

A SYNONYM FOR

JUSTICE, INTEGRITY, AND INDOMITABLE PLUCK


CONTENTS


      I. IN THE DANGER ZONE

     II. THE AMAZON

    III. ANGUS McRAE DOES HIS DUTY

     IV. THE WOLFERS

      V. MORSE JUMPS UP TROUBLE

     VI. "SOMETHING ABOUT THESE GUYS"

    VII. THE MAN IN THE SCARLET JACKET

   VIII. AT SWEET WATER CREEK

     IX. TOM MAKES A COLLECTION

      X. A CAMP-FIRE TALE

     XI. C.N. MORSE TURNS OVER A LEAF

    XII. TOM DUCKS TROUBLE

   XIII. THE CONSTABLE BORES THROUGH DIFFICULTIES

    XIV. SCARLET-COATS IN ACTION

     XV. KISSING DAY

    XVI. A BUSINESS DEAL

   XVII. A BOARD CREAKS

  XVIII. A GUN ROARS

    XIX. "D' YOU WONDER SHE HATES ME?"

     XX. ONISTAH READS SIGN

    XXI. ON THE FRONTIER OF DESPAIR

   XXII. "MY DAMN PRETTY LI'L' HIGH-STEPPIN' SQUAW"

  XXIII. A FORETASTE OF HELL

   XXIV. WEST MAKES A DECISION

    XXV. FOR THE WEE LAMB LOST

   XXVI. A RESCUE

  XXVII. APACHE STUFF

 XXVIII. "IS A' WELL WI' YOU, LASS?"

   XXIX. NOT GOING ALONE

    XXX. "M" FOR MORSE

   XXXI. THE LONG TRAIL

  XXXII. A PICTURE IN A LOCKET

 XXXIII. INTO THE LONE LAND

  XXXIV. THE MAN-HUNTERS READ SIGN

   XXXV. SNOW-BLIND

  XXXVI. THE WILD BEAST LEAPS

 XXXVII. NEAR THE END OF A LONG CROOKED TRAIL

XXXVIII. OVER A ROTTING TRAIL

  XXXIX. A CREE RUNNER BRINGS NEWS

     XL. "MALBROUCK S'EN VA-T-EN GUERRE"

    XLI. SENSE AND NONSENSE

   XLII. THE IMPERATIVE URGE


CHAPTER I

IN THE DANGER ZONE


She stood on the crown of the hill, silhouetted against a sky-line of
deepest blue. Already the sun was sinking in a crotch of the plains
which rolled to the horizon edge like waves of a great land sea. Its
reflected fires were in her dark, stormy eyes. Its long, slanted rays
were a spotlight for the tall, slim figure, straight as that of a boy.

The girl's gaze was fastened on a wisp of smoke rising lazily from a
hollow of the crumpled hills. That floating film told of a camp-fire
of buffalo chips. There was a little knitted frown of worry on her
forehead, for imagination could fill in details of what the coulée
held: the white canvas tops of prairie schooners, some spans of oxen
grazing near, a group of blatant, profane whiskey-smugglers from
Montana, and in the wagons a cargo of liquor to debauch the Bloods and
Piegans near Fort Whoop-Up.

Sleeping Dawn was a child of impulse. She had all youth's capacity for
passionate indignation and none of the wisdom of age which tempers
the eager desire of the hour. These whiskey-traders were ruining her
people. More than threescore Blackfeet braves had been killed within
the year in drunken brawls among themselves. The plains Indians would
sell their souls for fire-water. When the craze was on them, they
would exchange furs, buffalo robes, ponies, even their wives and
daughters for a bottle of the poison.

In the sunset glow she stood rigid and resentful, one small fist
clenched, the other fast to the barrel of the rifle she carried. The
evils of the trade came close to her. Fergus McRae still carried the
gash from a knife thrust earned in a drunken brawl. It was likely that
to-morrow he would cut the trail of the wagon wheels and again make
a bee-line for liquor and trouble. The swift blaze of revolt found
expression in the stamp of her moccasined foot.

As dusk fell over the plains, Sleeping Dawn moved forward lightly,
swiftly, toward the camp in the hollow of the hills. She had no
definite purpose except to spy the lay-out, to make sure that her
fears were justified. But through the hinterland of her consciousness
rebellious thoughts were racing. These smugglers were wholly outside
the law. It was her right to frustrate them if she could.

Noiselessly she skirted the ridge above the coulée, moving through
the bunch grass with the wary care she had learned as a child in the
lodges of the tribe.

Three men crouched on their heels in the glow of a camp-fire well
up the draw. A fourth sat at a little distance from them riveting a
stirrup leather with two stones. The wagons had been left near the
entrance of the valley pocket some sixty or seventy yards from the
fire. The Lilac Arbor but sat silent two people who went along, if
such a plaintiff, according heraustönte, and held its breath, if he
does not repeat.

Always dämmernder secret and it was around them, behind the tree and
shrub quollen clear, white fog, and those two verängsteten people
could hardly recognize their traits. "Heting, now go to my wife," asked
the tenant finally mumbled, he still deeper into the shadows of the
porch moved, "and see for yourself why the Doctor did not come back.
"Thus fell the great shape again and brooded so lost to himself, that
the husbandman not noticed how his desire Hedwig made no consequence,
but still remained seated next to him. Finally, they stressed the hair
from the forehead. The Wilms saw. "Hedwig, you do not want to - -?" No,
brother, I will not go to your wife. "" You - do not?

"" No - no - please, Wilms - run I'm not more into it. "" Yes - but -
Heting, why? "" Because - because I was afraid before her, "it
came over her lips quivering. The tenants stared at it - not understanding
- and took to the head. Hofpächter yet knew not of what is today
between the two sisters had played. Silently had Hedwig everything
is locked in, the delicate, tenderhearted man needed not to know that
they had discovered that their secret longing, which never expressed
the desire was still no compliance, that they already had belauert
and curses by the outgoing, they will soon no longer be disturbing.

All she wanted to cold and proud of it away to themselves and wait
to lie in wait until the redemption would finally here - the
beginning of happiness. But now - now, when the wild Wehlaute
pushed out into the quiet garden, then endured it not. Then she
startled and trembled. As it was ice around the heart. Was she
really to blame, that a human life there was different inside?
Did they really desperate in the death? Recovery suggested a pain
cry in her ear.

That overcame them, which she was unable to cope with everything
screamed at her after consolation - peace - forgiveness. A word of
love they lacked a single word of the man whom they wanted to give
their youth, which they wanted to surrender, unconditionally, now,
where it always was, because he and his dull helplessness from the
beginning had bewitches.

But the distraught tenants sat there and stirred not. As Hedwig was
disheartened to sit and fall desperately she murmured: "I wish I
were there, which is to create everlasting peace, and to remain
with you all the same. - I shall die happy.

"But death had no power over them, life was much more about her brausend.
Wilms desperately grabbed her hand:" You - Heting? "He stammered," no,
no - only not you - that you can 'I will not tolerate - not just you
- we want to stay together. "He gripped it and pressed it to itself.
And then suddenly there it was, what has been getting closer and
closer moons geschlichen had.

Without transition she felt his lips twitching at her, she wrapped
her arms around the neck of the mighty man and painful kisses she,
as his tears on her face networked.

She sobbed. As if they wanted to comfort her, she lay in the arms of
each other. It was not a happy finding. * * * * * In the broad,
unpleasant living room, it was now become stiller.

The thick Kreisphysikus had completed its investigation and heavy
sufferer gently asked by what she so suddenly in arousal would have
been moved.

Lange had the dull insistence of his wife resisted, but finally, the
old man as they do so fatherly and well into the arms took, they
took a heart and, as a small child to the old friend geschmiegt, she
whispered to him faltering and crying their horrific discovery. "Oh,
God, the hätt 'I do not believe - but it's true, Doctor, Krischan
has even seen."

The old doctor shook his head and spoke of their conviction of such
presumptions.

"Oh, nonsense - my Kinding - Gesindegeklätsch." "Really?" She breathed
weakly. Her eyes fell ray of hope. "Of course - because kenn 'ich both
too well." "Oh, yes," whispered the Exposed grateful, then lifted it
to the tired look to the ceiling up to which the lamp burning their
yellow circle raised, and expressed the Physikus at the end of the
hand, "I think it did not," she said, with twitching lips, "no, I
think it does not - believe it not."

Wilms entered. His wife smiled at him and moving the lips. However
it was unclear what they demanded.

The doctor bent over her.

"Wilms, your wife also wants her sister to see," he said and then
went himself in the garden, in order to fetch the girl.

In the porch he met her. It was already dark. "After I requested Else?"
Said Hedwig confused, but the long-time friend she had the unrest,
which stormed into her, not to remember.

"Yes, we want to her." What a swing. Even the first burning kisses on
her lips, yet she knew not how all this was possible and what should
now follow.

"Will they suffer for a long time?" Researched them breathless.
Whether the small Physikus the nachzitternden wish this issue had
herausgehört ? Before the hallway, he stopped and dropped her
thoughtful about the wavy hair.

"Yes, they may still suffer very long," he halblaut back, "and
therefore - Heting, I think it would be good if you now of a continuous
fortgingst here. "" I? "They frightened, - he knew something?" The stay
here you are not well received. You came here as a lady, and - I
do not know, but you've got something hard out here, Bäuerisches
accepted, and - it would be really good for all, do you, "he broke,"
if thou to thy father declined.

"No answer. Starr and the girl looked great through the darkness to old
friends over. It was her felt as if he is now around his neck falling
to him all her tormenting thoughts that are greedy for the death of
their sister herumflatterten, to confess and to entrust. But their
strength was still not exhausted.

They took that and gave the doctor calmly replied: "It is, above all,
my duty, hierzubleiben while Else myself in need. - But I thank you
for your advice, "she added uneasy when they are already exceeded
by the hallway."

It was well intentioned, "said the little Physikus strongly.

The view about the innocence of the girl was not as rock solid in him.
He measured his companion with a suspicious glance. You entered. On
the bed of the sick sat Wilms, the principal with the blond
hair kurzgeschorenen deep to the breast reduced. He lifted it's no
surprise when he heard the girl step.

His large hands rested in his wife. The Trostesworte the doctor had
the Hingestreckten relief, because she was now silent and nodded Hedwig
eager to detail them.

The Younger obeyed. Here they felt that the eyes of the sick they
penetrated, and although it seemed as if the silver ring which her
Wilms had, now at their finger would be white hot, and yet she
believed, her lips would now of course the secret kisses confess
as they defeated yet, and saw the large and ill calmly.

Only her chest stood out timidly. The looks of the two sisters met,
and as Else in this quiet, brown eyes hineinsah, they seemed to be
calming scoop.

Hedwig least she moved to the bed edge down and stroked her cheek
silent.

But in Niederbeugen grazed Hedwigs garb seated Wilms. A blow
durchzuckte the young, excited woman. Re was a time has come where they
are almost on the sufferer would have been thrown to the load on its
own to raise, and all to confess their guilt.

But the departure of the doctor was forced between their thoughts. After
the Physikus the tenant still had some Verhaltungsmaßregeln issued,
passed the House loyal friend, and soon announced a soft roll that
he was shut down by the court. The three-laden and gloomy people
remained alone.

Deep, persistent silence reigned, only sometimes gritted the
sand on the floor, or the clock in the box and beat stirred.

The patients had had their eyes closed, but below the lower eyelashes
secretly she drew her gaze from Wilms on Hedwig and the girls back
to the man spähend But their suspicions were fed no food.

The two were sitting opposite, as if they were is totally alien and
indifferent.

"If the old boy just hate talking about?"

Else facilitate thought, 'oh, if it were true. "A long time passed.
As noted Else, the nature of the sick little nervous with the gold
heart on her breast played as her sister is hinüberbeugte when
they wish to be submerged completely in the man to talk.

"No - no." This would not end the suffering .

Amidst their agony, she was jealous of the young beauty, so quiet
on the bed sat in their peripheral white patterned dress with
Rosenknöspchen, easily and almost on the body herunterfloß.

How fully they had bloomed. - No, no, they should not talk with Wilms.
Else wanted to be alone with her husband.

And now it was also, as strange Hedwig considered the gold heart.
It infuses the sick fear On. "The heart - is - a souvenir - from
Wilms," she brought out with effort, they kissed the tiny jewel,
"and now, Hedwig - go to sleep. - Wilms will stay with me tonight
- I - I want to be alone with - my husband - you hear?

"It was so characteristic of spoken and so unmistakable aversion
accompanied that Hedwig rose rapidly and without another word from
the dull hinauseilte infirmary.

Hardly had it outside, so they breathed easier and flew into their
Kämmerchen upwards, which they have been inhabited ELSES return
again.

There she lit up the light, opened the window, leaned out and what
are called the warm night narcotic scent, which is grassland and
herüberquoll fields.

"How long they might still live?" was again impatient by their
senses.

They now awaited like a desperation. And while they are already half
undressed knelt on her bed, she stretched again longing arms, as she
wanted to hold somebody, in their breast inextricably entangled.
Glut schwemmten all desire and fear continued. Game, without any
mitigation, she was in bed and listened, whether Wilms would her the
deposit forfeited to the report.

A long forgotten her a Liedvers fell. The humming in their excitement
to himself, "The black rider stops in front of the house.

Come to me, fine woman out, a shirt is enough - have to rush from
the fact that I first morning beam'm back on the lake and valley;
We ride many miles .

But the black rider was not yet before Pachthof, the hour glass ran
even further. * * * * * There was one. The sick stirred. With moist
hands still held the rights of the husband's ability. »Wilms," she
whispered hoarsely. Aufgescheucht drove up to the tenant.

In his anesthesia, he had to sleep under, and only now noticed that
the eyes of his wife erloschnen long dull and rigid to have had him
rest.

"What do you want, Elsing?"

I think - it's soon - to be with me end, "röchelte his wife, and
it sounded as if her death is already sitting on the chest."

Elsing - for God's sake - because you're sick now?

"" Yes, I think probably. - Wilms - I thanks' for all your love -
- - just as last - but tell me the truth, you've never lied to me:
- When I'm dead now - want - do you want Hedwig then get married?

"It was as if the voice from beyond the grave was short, the lessees
gripped the back of his chair, he could not speak a word spawn,
stuck his tongue on the palate, its own little power, he just shook
his head while the image of the ever more discoloration woman his
whole soul was trapped.

Scheid slowly lifted the end of the finger and moved him how a
little child in danger.

Then she beckoned to him, he should bend over them, and while the
clumsy man with passion perish kissed, she whispered to him audible:
'Listening' on me - Hedwig is not for you - it does not fit together
-- because - oh, because it is much more than you - and remember,
my poor man - you do not remember - what I tell you - from Hedwig
and the Count was told - "A satisfied smile played hardly noticeable
to the lips of lying, it seemed her last revenge wohlzutun, especially
when she felt that her husband hit zusammenzuckte.

Once she opened the eyes to bring this picture to fully enjoy,
then they still breathed, "It is not pure - not the way I - I - - as
- -" The words in the nature of persons verklangen , a new impotence
she took out, and only moments to the Tortured woke again and cried out
loud. Kaltes horror had Wilms packed, no, he could no longer, with the
ring ends to remain alone.

He sprang to the door and he called schallend through the house,
"Hedwig - Hedwig."

Insomnia was the girl still in her chamber above, because they
expected something like that Wilms her would give a sign.

Whether the end was already • A never felt like they penetrated
a look certainly beautiful condition, and yet her heart beat like
a bell, and the anxiety over it with shaking frost.

It was her, as she felt pangs of death to when the soul of the flöhe
divorcees just pass it by.

"Hedwig - Hedwig." It sounded so flehentlich.

Rough wrapped it in clothes and went silently down the stairs.
At the bottom paragraph Wilms stood up and stared. "Is she dead?" Asked
Hedwig, is entirely forgotten. The native shook his head, but he
understood they would not. "Not yet," he tonlos back - "but I can
no longer stay with her alone - come clean. "He opened up and let the
girl be.

Then they sat close together at the window and saw a word on the
tortured body over that is not live and could not die. This jammer
full image could not bear the Younger. Instinctively, and only their
strongest driving below, to intervene everywhere, she took the bottle
with the toxic sedatives, and let the drops in the spoon herabträufeln.
Mechanically counted with Wilms. - Five - six - seven. "The girl
sat and infuses the suffering of the potion which allow them almost
a leaden sleep anheimfiel.

But Wilms thoughts flew on. Heat's been a crime if one of the sick, the
whole bottle would be enough? he mused.

Then they would have finally found salvation, she would
eingeschlummert to no longer wake up and sleep in the house would be
confiscated and peace.

A shy look grazed the girl, who sat beside him tired, and now realized
the only tenant, as they determine leaned on him for no view from
the dormant to use.

Merkwürdig - Hedwigs lips moved silently, it was as if the breath of
his sister count.

And in these few minutes of silence was also the tenants that they
are only loosely held and easily had over him gleamed against her
beauty.

He covered his eyes with his hand in order not to be considered, but
he saw it. The woman who is always there in the deep sleep hineinwiegte,
was at the moment, as if they would be absorbed and forgotten.
Quiet and soft Hedwig clings to him as if they wanted einschlummern.
Both sisters were tired, very tired.

Wilms has always felt strange. As was quietly knocked on the door.
When the tenant opened, he saw out there in the clear night sternenhellen
Pastor Schirmer stand in full regalia, after which Wilms on the
dying request was sent. Silently he led the late guest into your living
room. The clerics had somewhere in a branch Vorüberwandern blooming
red Rotdorns abgepflückt have. Den he lay down as a last gift to
the white linen. Then it was the crucifix in front of the bed moved,
the lights contaminated, and the quivering little man wanted in
the death Schlummertrunkenen donate sacraments.

But still and rigid, the pioneer and heard nothing of what they
would otherwise passionately in itself would have been recorded.
But the prayers, the clerics instead of the sacred action before
hinmurmelte, but had not spoken to the wind. If there is one sister,
also lost, the younger and prettier followed for a long time for
the first time a religious act zurückgehaltenem with breathing and
burning eyes.

It was her, as if this is the marriage practices, for them and the
man beside her would be kept -- - close to the camp of the outgoing.
"Amen - Amen," concluded the priest.

"Amen," repeated Hedwig and courageous. The pastor wanted to remain alone
for Else, and so were the two others still beyond. Before the door
remained still for a moment and listened back. Inside, they listened
as the priest in a loud, excited voice aufsagte prayers. Then they
separated, without the hand, yes, without a greeting. So high was the
tension between them increased, that they no longer had to say. It
was only a Hindrängen. Tired looking Hedwig and indifferent to their
camp, and Wilms woke in the dark cellar alongside good Elsens rooms
anxious, sad night.

Inside sang the quivering, aged males always dedicated, and what
medical managed never would have happened here.

Else suggested suddenly the tired eyes, and a blissful smile spread over
her whole face.

The Lowest in her life was taken and sounded off. Yes, she wanted as a
child of God, like a pious death.

With unspeakable trouble, she is holding and crying with joy at
the clergyman: "You - are - is, Mr. Pastor?" She breathed, "Oh, how
nice - - it is probably me - o, so well - "And she laid her head
reverently against the white man head, and while it through the window
to the hellflimmernden stars hinaufsah, she sang softly with first
bender voice the resurrection song with:" O blessed, who acquires
the salvation, The the Lord, died in the meantime!

O blessed, who, of course Matt, The City of God, The most up there is
found.

Now, the gateway to peace and go you: hindsight! This concludes the
pilgrimage itself.

Sleeping in your kingdom of peace, treat allzugleich also sent me
a Räumlein beside you.

"In the dark the next room sat a man and heard everything that went
indoors. - Melancholy, despair, passion rose in him to a convulsive
sobs pushed into his throat, trembling, overwhelmed folded his
hands and stammered after what hereinschallte to him.

He pushed home questions, for he was not one to
slough any of the responsibilities that belonged to him as father of
his family.

A fat and waistless Indian woman appeared in the tent flap as the
three approached the light. She gave a grunt of surprise and pointed
first at Morse and then at the girl.

The trader's hands were covered with blood, his shirt-sleeve soaked in
it. Stains of it were spattered over the girl's clothes and face.

The Scotchman looked at them, and his clean-shaven upper lip grew
straight, his whole face stern. "What'll be the meanin' o' this?" he
asked.

Morse turned to the girl, fastened his eyes on her steadily, and
waited.

"Nae lees. I'll hae the truth," Angus added harshly.

"I did it--with my hunting-knife," the daughter said, looking straight
at her father.

"What's that? Are ye talkin' havers, lass?"

"It's the truth, Father."

The Scotchman swung on the trader with a swift question, at the end of
it a threat. "Why would she do that? Why? If you said one word to my
lass--"

"No, Father. You don't understand. I found a camp of whiskey-traders,
and I stole up and smashed four-five kegs. I meant to slip away, but
this man caught me. When he rushed at me I was afraid--so I slashed at
him with my knife. We fought."

"You fought," her father repeated.

"He didn't know I was a girl--not at first."

The buffalo-hunter passed that point. "You went to this trader's camp
and ruined his goods?"

"Yes."

"Why?"

The slim girl faced her judge steadily with eyes full of apprehension.
"Fergus," she said in a low voice, "and my people."

"What aboot them?"

"These traders break the law. They sell liquor to Fergus and to--"

"Gin that's true, is it your business to ram-stam in an' destroy ither
folks' property? Did I bring you up i' the fear o' the Lord to slash
at men wi' your dirk an' fight wi' them like a wild limmer? I've been
ower-easy wi' you. Weel, I'll do my painfu' duty the nicht, lass." The
Scotchman's eyes were as hard and as inexorable as those of a hanging
judge.

"Yes," the girl answered in a small voice. "That's why he brought me
home instead of taking me to his own camp. You're to whip me."

Angus McRae was not used to having the law and the judgment taken out
of his own hands. He frowned at the young man beneath heavy grizzled
eyebrows drawn sternly together. "An' who are you to tell me how to
govern my ain hoose?" he demanded.

"My name's Morse--Tom Morse, Fort Benton, Montana, when my hat's
hangin' up. I took up your girl's proposition, that if I didn't head
in at our camp, but brought her here, you were to whip her and pay me
damages for what she'd done. Me, I didn't propose it. She did."

"You gave him your word on that, Jess?" her father asked.

"Yes." She dragged out, reluctantly, after a moment: "With a
horsewhip."

"Then that's the way it'll be. The McRaes don't cry back on a
bargain," the dour old buffalo-hunter said. "But first we'll look at
this young man's arm. Get water and clean rags, Jess."

Morse flushed beneath the dark tan of his cheeks. "My arm's all right.
It'll keep till I get back to camp."

"No such thing, my lad. We'll tie it up here and now. If my lass cut
your arm, she'll bandage the wound."

"She'll not. I'm runnin' this arm."

McRae slammed a heavy fist down into the palm of his hand. "I'll be
showin' you aboot that, mannie."

"Hell, what's the use o' jawin'? I'm goin' to wait, I tell you."

"Don't curse in my camp, Mr. Morse, or whatever your name is." The
Scotchman's blue eyes flashed. "It's a thing I do not permeet. Nor do
I let beardless lads tell me what they will or won't do here. Your
wound will be washed and tied up if I have to order you hogtied first.
So mak the best o' that."

Morse measured eyes with him a moment, then gave way with a sardonic
laugh. McRae had a full share of the obstinacy of his race.

"All right. I'm to be done good to whether I like it or not. Go to
it." The trader pulled back the sleeve of his shirt and stretched out
a muscular, blood-stained arm. An ugly flesh wound stretched halfway
from elbow to wrist.

Jessie brought a basin, water, a towel, and clean rags. By the light
of a lantern in the hands of her father, she washed and tied up the
wound. Her lips trembled. Strange little rivers of fire ran through
her veins when her finger-tips touched his flesh. Once, when she
lifted her eyes, they met his. He read in them a concentrated passion
of hatred.

Not even when she had tied the last knot in the bandage did any of
them speak. She carried away the towel and the basin while McRae hung
the lantern to a nail in the tent pole and brought from inside a
silver-mounted riding-whip. It was one he had bought as a present for
his daughter last time he had been at Fort Benton.

The girl came back and stood before him. A pulse beat fast in her
brown throat. The eyes betrayed the dread of her soul, but they met
without flinching those of the buffalo-hunter.

The Indian woman at the tent entrance made no motion to interfere. The
lord of her life had spoken. So it would be.

With a strained little laugh Morse took a step forward. "I reckon I'll
not stand out for my pound of flesh, Mr. McRae. Settle the damages for
the lost liquor and I'll call it quits."

The upper lip of the Scotchman was a straight line of resolution. "I'm
not thrashing the lass to please you, but because it's in the bond and
because she's earned it. Stand back, sir."

The whip swung up and down. The girl gasped and shivered. A flame of
fiery pain ran through her body to the toes. She set her teeth to bite
back a scream. Before the agony had passed, the whip was winding round
her slender body again like a red-hot snake. It fell with implacable
rhythmic regularity.

Her pride and courage collapsed. She sank to her knees with a wild
burst of wailing and entreaties. At last McRae stopped.

Except for the irregular sobbing breaths of the girl there was
silence. The Indian woman crouched beside the tortured young thing and
rocked the dark head, held close against her bosom, while she crooned
a lullaby in the native tongue.

McRae, white to the lips, turned upon his unwelcome guest. "You're nae
doot wearyin' to tak the road, man. Bring your boss the morn an' I'll
mak a settlement."

Morse knew he was dismissed. He turned and walked into the darkness
beyond the camp-fires. Unnoticed, he waited there in a hollow and
listened. For along time there came to him the soft sound of weeping,
and afterward the murmur of voices. He knew that the fat and shapeless
squaw was pouring mother love from her own heart to the bleeding one
of the girl.

Somehow that brought him comfort. He had a queer feeling that he had
been a party to some horrible outrage. Yet all that had taken place
was the whipping of an Indian girl. He tried to laugh away the weak
sympathy in his heart.

But the truth was that inside he was a wild river of woe for her.


CHAPTER IV

THE WOLFERS


When Tom Morse reached camp he found Bully West stamping about in a
heady rage. The fellow was a giant of a man, almost muscle-bound in
his huge solidity. His shoulders were rounded with the heavy pack of
knotted sinews they carried. His legs were bowed from much riding. It
was his boast that he could bend a silver dollar double in the palm of
his hand. Men had seen him twist the tail rod of a wagon into a knot.
Sober, he was a sulky, domineering brute with the instincts of a
bully. In liquor, the least difference of opinion became for him a
cause of quarrel.

Most men gave him a wide berth, and for the sake of peace accepted
sneers and insults that made the blood boil.

"Where you been all this time?" he growled.

"Ploughin' around over the plains."

"Didn't you hear me callin'?"

"D'you call? I've been quite a ways from camp. Bumped into Angus
McRae's buffalo-hunting outfit. He wants to see us to-morrow."

"What for?"

"Something about to-night's business. Seems he knows who did it.
Offers to settle for what we lost."

Bully West stopped in his stride, feet straddled, head thrust forward.
"What's that?"

"Like I say. We're to call on him to-morrow for a settlement, you 'n'
me."

"Did McRae bust our barrels?"

"He knows something about it. Didn't have time to talk long with him.
I hustled right back to tell you."

"He can come here if he wants to see me," West announced.

This called for no answer and Tom gave it none. He moved across to the
spot where the oxen were picketed and made sure the pins were still
fast. Presently he rolled his blanket round him and looked up into a
sky all stars. Usually he dropped asleep as soon as his head touched
the seat of the saddle he used as a pillow. But to-night he lay awake
for hours. He could not get out of his mind the girl he had met and
taken to punishment. A dozen pictures of her rose before him, all of
them mental snapshots snatched from his experience of the night. Now
he was struggling to hold her down, his knees clamped to her writhing,
muscular torso. Again he held her by the strong, velvet-smooth arms
while her eyes blazed fury and defiance at him. Or her stinging words
pelted him as she breasted the hill slopes with supple ease. Most
vivid of all were the ones at her father's camp, especially those when
she was under the torture of the whip.

No wonder she hated him for what he had done to her.

He shook himself into a more comfortable position and began to count
stars.... Ninety-five, ninety-six, ninety-seven.... What was the use
of stressing the affair, anyhow? She was only a half-breed. In
ten years she would be fat, shapeless, dirty, and repellent. Her
conversation would be reduced to grunts. The glance he had had at her
mother was illuminating.

Where was he?... One hundred eleven, twelve, thirteen.... Women had
not obtruded much into his life. He had lived in the wind and the sun
of the outdoors, much of the time in the saddle. Lawless he was,
but there was a clean strain in his blood. He had always felt an
indifferent contempt for a squaw-man. An American declassed himself
when he went in for that sort of thing, even if he legalized the
union by some form of marriage. In spite of her magnificent physical
inheritance of health and vitality, in spite of the quick and
passionate spirit that informed her, she would be the product of her
environment and ancestry, held close to barbarism all her life. The
man who mated with her would be dragged down to her level.

Two hundred three, four, five.... How game she had been! She had
played it out like a thoroughbred, even to telling her father that he
was to use the horsewhip in punishing her. He had never before seen a
creature so splendid or so spirited. Squaw or no squaw, he took off
his hat to her.

The sun had climbed the hilltop when Morse wakened.

"Come an' get it!" Barney the cook was yelling at him.

Bully West had changed his mind about not going to the
buffalo-hunter's camp.

"You 'n' Brad'll stay here, Barney, while me 'n' Tom are gone," he
gave orders. "And you'll keep a sharp lookout for raiders. If any one
shows up that you're dubious of, plug him and ask questions afterward.
Un'erstand?"

"I hear ye," replied Barney, a small cock-eyed man with a malevolent
grin. "An' we'll do just that, boss."

Long before the traders reached it, the camp of the buffalo-hunters
advertised its presence by the stench of decaying animal matter.
Hundreds of hides were pegged to the ground. Men and women, squatting
on their heels, scraped bits of fat from the drying skins. Already a
train of fifty Red River carts[3] stood ready for the homeward start,
loaded with robes tied down by means of rawhide strips to stand the
jolting across the plains. Not far away other women were making
pemmican of fried buffalo meat and fat, pounded together and packed
with hot grease in skin bags. This food was a staple winter diet and
had too a market value for trade to the Hudson's Bay Company, which
shipped thousands of sacks yearly to its northern posts on the Peace
and the Mackenzie Rivers.

[Footnote 3: The Red River cart was a primitive two-wheeled affair,
made entirely of wood, without nails or metal tires. It was usually
drawn by an ox. (W.M.R.)]

The children and the sound of their laughter gave the camp a domestic
touch. Some of the brown, half-naked youngsters, their skins
glistening in the warm sun, were at work doing odd jobs. Others, too
young to fetch and carry, played with a litter of puppies or with a
wolf cub that had been caught and tamed.

The whole bustling scene was characteristic of time and place. A score
of such outfits, each with its Red River carts and its oxen, its dogs,
its women and children, traveled to the plains each spring to hunt
the bison. They killed thousands upon thousands of them, for it took
several animals to make a sack of pemmican weighing one hundred fifty
pounds. The waste was enormous, since only the choicest cuts of meat
were used.

Already the buffalo were diminishing in numbers. Vast hordes still
roamed the plains. They could be killed by scores and hundreds. But
the end was near. It had been several years since Colonel Dodge
reported that he had halted his party of railroad builders two days
to let a herd of over half a million bison pass. Such a sight was no
longer possible. The pressure of the hunters had divided the game into
the northern and the southern herds. Within four or five years the
slaughter was to be so great that only a few groups of buffalo would
be left.

The significance of this extermination lay largely in its application
to the Indians. The plains tribes were fed and clothed and armed and
housed by means of the buffalo. Even the canoes of the lake Indians
were made from buffalo skins. The failure of the supply reduced the
natives from warriors to beggars.

McRae came forward to meet the traders, the sleeves of his shirt
rolled to the elbows of his muscular brown arms. He stroked a great
red beard and nodded gruffly. It was not in his dour honest nature to
pretend that he was glad to see them when he was not.

"Well, I'm here," growled West, interlarding a few oaths as a
necessary corollary of his speech. "What's it all about, McRae? What
do you know about the smashing of our barrels?"

"I'll settle any reasonable damage," the hunter said.

Bully West frowned. He spread his legs deliberately, folded his arms,
and spat tobacco juice upon a clean hide drying in the sun. "Hold yore
hawsses a minute. The damage'll be enough. Don't you worry about that.
But first off, I aim to know who raided our camp. Then I reckon I'll
whop him till he's wore to a frazzle."

Under heavy, grizzled brows McRae looked long at him. Both were
outstanding figures by reason of personality and physique. One was a
constructive force, the other destructive. There was a suggestion of
the gorilla in West's long arms matted with hair, in the muscles of
back and shoulders so gnarled and knotted that they gave him almost
a deformed appearance. Big and broad though he was, the Scot was the
smaller. But power harnessed and controlled expressed itself in every
motion of the body. Moreover, the blue eyes that looked straight and
hard out of the ruddy face told of coordination between mind and
matter.

Angus McRae was that rare product, an honest, outspoken man. He sought
to do justice to all with whom he had dealings. Part of West's demand
was fair, he reflected. The trader had a right to know all the facts
in the case. But the old Hudson's Bay trapper had a great reluctance
to tell them. His instinct to protect Jessie was strong.

"I've saved ye the trouble, Mr. West. The guilty yin was o' my ain
family. Your young man will tell ye I've done a' the horsewhippin'
that's necessary."

The big trail boss looked blackly at his helper. He would settle with
Morse at the proper time. Now he had other business on hand.

"Come clean, McRae. Who was it? There'll be nothin' doin' till I know
that," he growled.

"My daughter."

West glared at him, for once astonished out of profanity.

"What?"

"My daughter Jessie."

"Goddlemighty, d'ja mean to tell me a girl did it?" He threw back his
head in a roar of Homeric laughter. "Ever hear the beat of that? A
damn li'l' Injun squaw playin' her tricks on Bully West! If she was
mine I'd tickle her back for it."

The eyes in the Scotchman's granite face flashed. "Man, can you never
say twa-three words withoot profanity? This is a God-fearin' camp.
There's nae place here for those who tak His name in vain."

"Smashed 'em with her own hands--is that what you mean? I'll give it
to her that she's a plucky li'l' devil, even if she is a nitchie."

McRae reproved him stiffly. "You'll please to remember that you're
talking of my daughter, Mr. West. I'll allow no such language aboot
her. You're here to settle a business matter. What do ye put the
damage at?"

They agreed on a price, to be paid in hides delivered at Whoop-Up.
West turned and went straddling to the place where he and Morse had
left their horses. With one leap he was on the bed, lifted the girl
up in the air and dragged Halbbetäubte into the next room inside.
It shook the whole body, and wrapped sobbing and imploring the aid
arms around his neck. Given forgot to Wilms. He raffte the girl, which
he still wore on and fully blow pity he pressed her furious kisses
on the mouth, forehead and hands as he must do everything well,
which is just on the debt was abused.

"Heting, my dear Heting - great God - if it's already just about gone."
And his wish should be fulfilled.

A strange verröchelnder According sounded behind them, Else was when she
had robbed the Younger, her sick, giving delirierenden brain, jumped
out of bed, had bare feet, the adjacent door is opened and reaches.
As she saw the picture and heard the kisses.

Slowly she laid her arm on the cold wood, made with the other hand
a dull movement in the air inside, and pointed her head bowed as
tired, levied against the arm back.

And they also had enough compatriots.

Röcheln A, a heavy, dull case, the eyes closed, and in the white
shirt was a corpse on the screed.

"Elsing - it dies." No answer.

Because of the country man threw the girl out and how absentminded
stierte to the rigid shell of his woman down.

Kastenuhr In the tenth to beat the morning hour, a horse in the stable
just neighed. The Black Rider was the fine lady in white shirts brought
thunderous and chased with her over the bridge, into the eternity
hinüberführt. * * * * * It was after the funeral. The victims were
removed, and now wanted to also Rendant Schroeder, the father of two
sisters, goodbye. He saw the deceased's very similar to the old gentleman,
despite his decent black frock coat, the military gescheitelten
snow-white hair and the tiny rose in buttonhole Order. Sadly, he went
on to Wilms, the apathetic couch in the corner sat, and pressed him
heavy hand: "God has imposed heavy over us," he said unsure, "but
we have to add in his will, my son - I hätt 'is also not believed
that I would still experience. "Thus, he drew a white handkerchief and
wept bitterly into it. ermannte Gradually it and turned to Hedwig,
the black at the window and sat on the dreamy courtyard continued
on the sunny road hinausblickte . 'Come, Heting, my car already holds
out, your stuff can you be nachgeschickt.

warned the
Scotchman.

"What's ailin' you?" West's sulky, insolent eyes turned on the
buffalo-hunter. "A nitchie's a nitchie. Me, I talk straight. But I aim
to be reasonable too. I don't like a woman less because she's got the
devil in her. Bully West knows how to tame 'em so they'll eat outa his
hand. I've took a fancy to yore girl. Tha's right, McRae."

"You may go to the tent, Jessie," the girl's father told her. He was
holding his temper in leash with difficulty.

"Wait a mo." The big trader held out his arm to bar the way. "Don't
push on yore reins, McRae. I'm makin' you a proposition. Me, I'm
lookin' for a wife, an' this here breed girl of yours suits me. Give
her to me an' I'll call the whole thing square. Couldn't say fairer
than that, could I?"

The rugged hunter looked at the big malformed border ruffian with
repulsion. "Man, you gi'e me a scunner," he said. "Have done wi' this
foolishness an' be gone. The lass is no' for you or the like o' you."

"Hell's hinges, you ain't standin' there tellin' me that a Cree breed
is too good for Bully West, are you?" roared the big whiskey-runner.

"A hundred times too good for you. I'd rather see the lass dead in
her coffin than have her life ruined by you," McRae answered in dead
earnest.

"You don't get me right, Mac," answered the smuggler, swallowing his
rage. "I know yore religious notions. The swabs from these Kolonieen
are usually paired together.

Also on pinkish, round, in the center of intense pink colored crude
Kolonieen grew Gram positive short rods. Tiny, delicate, slender
Gram positive rods Kolonieen often formed with a juicy shiny
surface, yellow to yellowish brown colored and the edge to be
transparent.

The deposits are soft and rarely reach a striking size. Longer,
tender, according to Gram discolor fingers meet us more often from
blaßgrau shiny, like a delicate veil growing on agar plates,
transparent Kolonieen with jagged edges.

In older Kolonieen take the Centrum whitish discoloration and is often
a ring of transparent concentré also be whitish discoloration and thereby
become opaque peripheral zone separately.

Too delicate, small, Influenzabazillen-like microorganisms have
been found.

They share with the agents of influenza and the shape of the property,
according to Gram discolor.

Your Kolonieen form small, round, juicy yellow deposits up to a
diameter of 1 mm, whose edge is smooth and jagged.

The fact that these bacilli to Agarnährböden without additional blood
at the first generation and win without difficulty fortzüchten could
alone speaks against the assumption that we are dealing with
Influenzabazillen might have to do.

Influenzabazillen are also less resistant to drying out. Quick drying
is under _Lehmann-Neumann_ already after 2 hours to bring death.

The phone would be in itself a little suitable habitat for these
bacilli. Probably, we have from the air more often derived bacillus
before us, similar to the _Bazillus aeris minutissimus_.

Gram negative bacteria moving, whose Kolonieen where the e-coli
and compared the microscopic picture of them can not be distinguished
were, could not be accessed as e-coli, since the Green Solutions
_Loeffler_'schen milk and sugar they were not fermented. The
investigation typhoid-like microorganisms on specific agars was
also resultatlos.

Particular attention was paid to the telephone of the typhus barracks
dedicated. Typhusbazillen are in the dust and the floors of dwellings
in which Located typhoid patients have often been found and how
_Rullmann_ has demonstrated, these germs into sterilized floors
over one year in the life.

By phone from the typhus barracks were derived material apart from the
usual testing procedures employed, particularly the detection of
Typhusbazillen should serve.

There was material in tubes with ox bile brought to an enrichment
of existing Typhusbazillen to achieve, and now continue on
Lakmusnutroseagar and Safranin-Rein-malachite green-blue agars after
_Loeffler_ verimpft.

The tests were negative. Also more detailed studies of the phone
under diphtheria barracks.

According to _Weichardt_, _Kolle_, _Tjaden_, _Park_, _Wright_, _Emerson_,
_Jäger_ and salaried _Forbes_ investigations are Diphtheriebazillen
in various objects from the vicinity of the patient, to Betteppichen,
scarves, furniture, door, the clothes and shoes of nurses and what
for the present investigation is of particular importance can be
no doubt, by the hair inside the keeper had been demonstrated.

His eyes never left the man
who had beaten him. He snarled hike a whipped wolf. The hunter's
metaphor had been an apt one. The horrible lust to kill was stamped on
his distorted, grinning face, but for the present the will alone was
not enough.

McRae's foot was on the revolver. His son Fergus, a swarthy,
good-looking youngster, had come up and was standing quietly behind
his father. Other hunters were converging toward their chief.

The Indian trader swore a furious oath of vengeance. Morse tried to
lead him away.

"Some day I'll get yore squaw girl right, McRae, an' then God help
her," he threatened.

The bully lurched straddling away.

Morse, a sardonic grin on his lean face, followed him over the hill.


CHAPTER V

MORSE JUMPS UP TROUBLE


"Threw me down, didn't you?" snarled West out of the corner of his
mouth. "Knew all the time she did it an' never let on to me. A hell of
a way to treat a friend."

Tom Morse said nothing. He made mental reservations about the word
friend, but did not care to express them. His somber eyes watched the
big man jerk the spade bit cruelly and rowel the bronco when it went
into the air. It was a pleasure to West to torture an animal when no
human was handy, though he preferred women and even men as victims.

"Whad he mean when he said you could tell me how he'd settled with
her?" he growled.

"He whipped her last night when I took her back to camp."

"Took her back to camp, did you? Why didn't you bring her to me? Who's
in charge of this outfit, anyhow, young fellow, me lad?"

"McRae's too big a man for us to buck. Too influential with the
half-breeds. I figured it was safer to get her right home to him." The
voice of the younger man was mild and conciliatory.

"_You_ figured!" West's profanity polluted the clear, crisp morning
air. "I got to have a run in with you right soon. I can see that.
Think because you're C.N. Morse's nephew, you can slip yore funny
business over on me. I'll show you."

The reddish light glinted for a moment in the eyes of Morse, but he
said nothing. Young though he was, he had a capacity for silence. West
was not sensitive to atmospheres, but he felt the force of this young
man. It was not really in his mind to quarrel with him. For one thing
he would soon be a partner in the firm of C.N. Morse & Company, of
Fort Benton, one of the biggest trading outfits in the country. West
could not afford to break with the Morse interests.

With their diminished cargo the traders pushed north. Their
destination was Whoop-Up, at the junction of the Belly and the St.
Mary's Rivers. This fort had become a rendezvous for all the traders
within hundreds of miles, a point of supply for many small posts
scattered along the rivers of the North.

Twelve oxen were hitched to each three-wagon load. Four teams had left
Fort Benton together, but two of them had turned east toward Wood
Mountain before the party was out of the Assiniboine country. West had
pushed across Lonesome Prairie to the Sweet Grass Hills and from there
over the line into Canada.

Under the best of conditions West was no pleasant traveling companion.
Now he was in a state of continual sullen ill-temper. For the first
time in his life he had been publicly worsted. Practically he had
been kicked out of the buffalo camp, just as though he were a drunken
half-breed and not one whose barroom brawls were sagas of the
frontier.

His vanity was notorious, and it had been flagrantly outraged. He
would never be satisfied until he had found a way to get his revenge.
More than once his simmering anger leaped out at the young fellow who
had been a witness of his defeat. In the main he kept his rage sulkily
repressed. If Tom Morse wanted to tell of the affair with McRae, he
could lessen the big man's prestige. West did not want that.

The outfit crossed the Milk River, skirted Pakoghkee Lake, and swung
westward in the direction of the Porcupine Hills. Barney had been a
trapper in the country and knew where the best grass was to be found.
In many places the feed was scant. It had been cropped close by the
great herds of buffalo roaming the plains. Most of the lakes were
polluted by the bison, so that whenever possible their guide found
camps by running water. The teams moved along the Belly River through
the sand hills.

Tom Morse was a crack shot and did the hunting for the party. The
evening before the train reached Whoop-Up, he walked out from camp to
try for an antelope, since they were short of fresh meat. He climbed a
small butte overlooking the stream. His keen eyes swept the panorama
and came to rest on a sight he had never before seen and would never
forget.

A large herd of buffalo had come down to the river crossing. They were
swimming the stream against a strong current, their bodies low in the
water and so closely packed that he could almost have stepped from one
shaggy head to another. Not fifty yards from him they scrambled ashore
and went lumbering into the hazy dusk. Something had frightened them
and they were on a stampede. Even the river had not stopped their
flight. The earth shook with their tread as they found their stride.

That wild flight into the gathering darkness was symbolic, Morse
fancied. The vast herds were vanishing never to return. Were they
galloping into the Happy Hunting Ground the Indians prayed for? What
would come of their flight? When the plains knew them no more, how
would the Sioux and the Blackfeet and the Piegans live? Would the
Lonesome Lands become even more desolate than they were now?

"I wonder," he murmured aloud.

It is certain that he could have had no vision of the empire soon to
be built out of the desert by himself and men of his stamp. Not even
dimly could he have conceived a picture of the endless wheat-fields
that would stretch across the plains, of the farmers who would pour
into the North by hundreds of thousands, of the cities which would
rise in the sand hills as a monument to man's restless push of
progress and his indomitable hope. No living man's imagination had yet
dreamed of the transformation of this _terra incognita_ into one of
the world's great granaries.

The smoke of the traders' camp-fire was curling up and drifting away
into thin veils of film before the sun showed over the horizon hills.
The bull-teams had taken up their steady forward push while the quails
were still flying to and from their morning water-holes.

"Whoop-Up by noon," Barney predicted.

"Yes, by noon," Tom Morse agreed. "In time for a real sure-enough
dinner with potatoes and beans and green stuff."

"Y' bet yore boots, an' honest to gosh gravy," added Brad Stearns,
a thin and wrinkled little man whose leathery face and bright eyes
defied the encroachment of time. He was bald, except for a fringe of
grayish hair above the temples and a few long locks carefully disposed
over his shiny crown. But nobody could have looked at him and called
him old.

They were to be disappointed.

The teams struck the dusty road that terminated at the fort and
were plodding along it to the crackling accompaniment of the long
bull-whips.

"Soon now," Morse shouted to Stearns.

The little man nodded. "Mebbe they'll have green corn on the cob.
If it is true that at the time, which wrote the first volume of
_Quijote_ not reached the national theater of its bigger and more
perfect climax, it is also true that there were already many drama
productions, which is not applicable or one in charge of this whole
series and in others, how many excellences of poetry partly offset
these defects!

Surely Cervantes knew well, when added to his invective isolated
reflections always benevolent.

"And not to blame for this, say, poets who compose them, because
there are some Dell know very well what is wrong, and extremely
aware what they must do, but as the comedies have become salable
commodity, they say, truth and say that the representatives are not
buying if they were not that jaez and so the poet tries to accommodate
what the representative who has paid his requests and that this is
true, see, for many and infinite comedias compound that has a wit
of these kingdoms Felicísimo so gala, with so much grace, with such
elegant verse, with very good reason, with such severe sentences,
and finally, so full of speech and style of Highness, which has
filled the world of his fame, and accommodate the tastes of the
representatives have not come all, as some have come to the point
of perfection they require.

"Later the exception of some critical plays by various authors, without
confusing them with others, and praise for his artistry and excellence,
as _The Isabela_, _The Alexandra_, _The Filis_, _The vengada_
ingratitude, _The Merchant amante_ and _The enemy favorable_.

Never appears as incomprehensible as Cervantes's criticism in this part,
because it is not easy to guess what the preference given to those
works on the others.

The first three of Argensola, that soon we will only deserve, no doubt,
because its adoption is in the dramatic style is older, he had
continued to long, at least in _The Isabela_ and _The Alexandra_
not are other merits to justify as exaggerated as they lavish praise.

Even more strange is the distinction made in favor of _The thanklessness
vengada_, assuming that such a title indicating the weakest comedy
by Lope de Vega [17].

Perhaps the moral tendency, strongly marked, that is at the point of
this confusing web of romantic intrigue and murder, which makes it
repugnant to our eyes, and recommendations for consideration by
Cervantes. But how could a poet who gave his ruling motivated so
light? Much lower than it is _The enemy favorable_, Tárrega and _The
Merchant amante_, Gaspar Aguilar [18], and without dispute not deserve
such strong preference, for many others of equal or higher value
of poetry.

The action of both regular and simple comedy is worthy of praise, but
apart from that it is not only the merit of a dramatic production,
all while remaining in the example of Cervantes, also called for
justice to deal with the remaining works make up the dramatic literature,
which does not pass in silence the fact that many of this era have
the qualities mentioned in the same grade as them. If you re-examine
this whole discourse, and certain passages of a similar nature in
_Viaje to Parnaso_ in _Prólogo_ the latest comedies, and so on.,
we are not hide these critical judgments are very real and timely, and
in part unfounded, frivolous and arbitrary. Cervantes Faltóle the poise
and depth necessary to fight successfully against stronger rivals:
his knowledge of some Spanish drama of the moon, not accompanied
by their beauty, and if on the one hand, lacked the impartiality
and should be allowed to drag Passion, on the other is not exposed
to the white printing some vagueness in their judgments.

What is surprising, therefore, losing his voice drowned out by
applause taxed contrary to school? If the _Don Quijote_, after a
long interruption, was consecrated again in his later years to
write comedies, or, as apparently had changed their previous ideas
about the essence of drama, or as followed in the footsteps of those
who criticized before, gave no doubt, taking no further appeal to
the demands of the public.

The prevailing taste of the time, previously convicted, had cast
such deep roots in the theater, which, perhaps convinced of the
futility of their previous efforts had to abandon them. If your
diatribes criticism had been powerless to achieve what they wanted,
how could one expect at the scene decisive victory? And yet, could not
mastered enough to dispense altogether with the dramatic poetry
without leaving the field of literature, which had won immortal
laurels.

The memory of his past glories did not give place to rest, and the
applause tribute to their younger peers, who witnessed daily in the
last years of his residence in Madrid, spurred him to fight
tirelessly on the scene.

To this end he wrote in the space of eight years few comedies that
failed to represent despite their efforts, there is no other remedy,
against what was happening then normally be given to the press
before they have been seen in the tables.

When changed its primary purpose and appealed to this means of
disclosure to the public, it seems that just did not want to read the
fans, and hoped that, once known, they were also represented: vain
hope, as we know, never done!

[19]. No work of Cervantes, however, was less read these comedies.
The first edition in 1615, became so rare that only a few were
fans of this genre, until the year 1749 was one that did not seem to
be standardizing not much.

Sabido who chaired the purpose the latter, it is easy to be so little
effect. Publisher Nasarre Blas Antonio, absurdly passionate scholar
of French critics, wrote a prologue, which precedes it, which hits
without mercy against the former Spanish drama, presenting it
as a model of faults and defects of any kind, so completely ignoring
the rules of sound criticism to that for Cervantes comedies that
follow, that qualifies as parody and satire against the corrupt
taste of the time, or what is the same, works the most defective
and watermelon ever have writing.

How this never would have thought the author _Don Quijote_? It is
impossible to discover in them the slightest trace of parody or satire.
They are usually serious imitation of the style of Lope de Vega,
despite the author's efforts to outdo their model with various
scenes and situations of greatest impact.

The impression, which is very similar to that of _Persiles_, written in
the same period. Just as Cervantes piled in his last novel the adventures
of the books of chivalry, which had previously criticized both
with rigor, and also accumulated in them without any scruple lost
bambolla and dramatic effect of the time, leading up to the hype
its license.

Even more strange it seems to us that all his works distinguished by its
clear and its good order and trace, in both the whole and in its various
parts, we find defects in comedies opposite: aridity in the
composition, amount and lightness in its development. Precisely the
same poet who gave so many proofs of his mastery in painting
characters, he is content with them very weakly outlined, and
deepening to the point sometimes, in their lack of real intent
poetic comedy.

It seems that Cervantes knew well the defects of these parts, as is clear
from the tone with a little pretentious to speak of them in the prologue,
very opposed, without doubt, the pride evident in the past, but as
trying to compete with Lope and school, thought, perhaps, that the
best way to achieve victory was to mimic the outside of his works,
accumulating wonders, adventures and theatrical coups.

Should have known that the fame of Lope, until the populace depended
on many different causes.

Besides the defect of being written in a style strange and false to
the most, have another, which did not contribute to its damage, which
is the lightness with which they were composed deplorable. Neither the
speed of composition Cervantes wanted to be overcome by the
celebrated master of the Spanish drama, lacking the gift of
improvisation to it and its easy to produce, such as playing,
perennial and inexhaustible flow of inventions, literary and even
first order.

Cervantes, apparently had a very different kind of genius: to work
with benefit needed to concentrate its activity, and when it was
still different course degenerate into superficial and frivolous.

It is understood by this that their comedies to be discarded altogether;
On the contrary, we believe that the bears the name of Cervantes
is worthy of appreciation, and as well as translations of _Persiles_
until the _Galatea_ have aroused our interest, as had happened with
his own comedies.

All of them, although more or less suffer from the faults mentioned,
also contain many partial beauty and moral and aesthetic, and
sometimes in many remarkable scenes, which can provide dramatic
evidence of the talent of the author of the _Numancia_ and do not
deserve to pass undetected.

To _The dichoso_ ruffian, for his license and that bad taste is the
worst of all _Comedias of santos_ we know the offers.

This piece, whose characters, various allegorical figures [20], we found
two pimps, a baker, an inquisitor, Lucifer, an angel and three
souls in Purgatory, offers in addition a swordsman knave of Seville,
who finally dies in Mexico as a saint, doing miracles.

Other pieces are uneven merit and distinct character.

In all, however little that excites interest of the principal
action, like the grace and wit of the comic roles, while the serious
scenes generally do not meet. Comedy entitled _The House of the celos_
a question taken from the Spanish tradition of Charlemagne, and
is very close to their post outside the contours of Lope and Calderon
planned to celebrate certain holidays and celebrations, though
devoid of that lovely poetry that both enhances the other pieces
of entertainment.

_The Spanish gallant and great Sultana_ The two tables are filled with
various events and the most animated description, although sometimes
we rejoice fully, do not forget that we need order and concert in
the provision and arrangement of its parts.

In _Los baths Argel_ repeats the same argument used earlier in
treatment of _The Argel_ in _Pedro of Urdemalas_ see a kind of
picaresque novel in dramatic form, a series of comic situations
and well thought out well in poetry, which only lack the unity of
its design and development to be a true comedy [21].

In the first scene is the cunning of Peter Urdemalas in habit boy
tillage, after having exercised all possible professions.

A friend of his asked him to help you get the hand of his beloved
Clemencia, his father denies.

This called Martín Crespo, then left to be mayor, and exercises for
the last time his duties as judge.

On the advice of Pedro disguise of shepherds and lovers are brought
before the mayor, accusing the stubborn old man, who was opposed
to her marriage and that there are traces of his order approving
the marriage.

The following describes the scenes and dances, processions, they
celebrated the feast of San Juan.

The superstitious believe that the young people who bathe their
feet that night in a basin of water, and let her hair to float at
the whim of the winds, signals detected by some who should be her
husband. Peter manages so many farmers, who make this experiment,
known by certain signs to look for those who love and listen with
kindness.

Appears after a band of gypsies, which is Peter, which, thanks to his
cunning, soon obtained great consideration. Gypsies come to a village,
where lives a widow, who, as they have their whole house is filled
with sacks of gold, but so miserable and volunteers, who does not
follow a single maravedíes, unless to spend on the salvation of her
late husband and out of Purgatory.

Peter dresses up as a hermit; crosses mounted on a donkey through
the streets of the village, stops in front of the house of the
widow, and cry out a charity.

Mind that an entire generation of their ancestors consumed in
Purgatory, and that after holding council had resolved to appoint a
soul, to represent them on the earth is tilted in their favor to the
rich widow, whose treasures can be save only.

He maintains he is a soul in Purgatory. It makes a horrible
picture of the torments suffered there, so he and his grandparents,
and so moved to the widow, that drops to just two sacks full of
money, delivering the supplicant .

The action comedy is linked to the fate of a girl in the band of
gypsies, who comes with them, and as the _Gitanilla_, appears to
be after the daughter of distinguished parents.

On the third day of Urdemalas Peter appears in a company of actors,
and with them come to court to give a representation, there is the
gitanilla, which had a certain inclination, and converted into a
noble lady, and her dress King goes on rounds with acuity and
instability of fortune, and at the end comically recalls the beginning
of the piece.

He says: "You see vuessas grants, which the kings wait in there, and
it is not possible to go to see all the great comedy that is my authority,
which lancineques and halberd, and frinfrón prevent entry to all
people musketeer: Morning in the will be a theater, where almost
all will cost from beginning to end across the path and you will
see that not just in marriage, Cosa common sight and one hundred
thousand times, not the lady who gave birth to this day, and another
is the child and their beards, and is brave and fierce, and kills
and cleft asunder, and from their parents some insults, and finally
comes to be king of a kingdom.

That there is no showing that cosmography. Impertinence of these
and other such, I offer free comedy and loose, then, full of artifice,
and industry galas, is the great Pedro de cela Urdemalas. "

It was a lazy, sleepy life. There was no need for a close guard.
Nobody knew where the whiskey was except themselves and a few
tight-mouthed traders. Morse discovered in himself an inordinate
capacity for sleep. He would throw himself down on the warm, sundried
grass and fall into a doze almost instantly. When the rays of the sun
grew too hot, it was easy to roll over into the shade of the draw.
He could lie for hours on his back after he wakened and watch
cloud-skeins elongate and float away, thinking of nothing or letting
thoughts happen in sheer idle content.

He had never had a girl, to use the word current among his fellows.
His scheme of life would, he supposed, include women by and by, but
hitherto he had dwelt in a man's world, in a universe of space and
sunshine and blowing wind, under primitive conditions that made for
tough muscles and a clean mind trained to meet frontier emergencies.
But now, to his disgust, he found slipping into his reveries pictures
of a slim, dark girl, arrow-straight, with eyes that held for him only
scorn and loathing. The odd thing about it was that when his brain was
busy with her a strange exultant excitement tingled through his veins.

One day a queer thing happened. He had never heard of psychic
phenomena or telepathy, but he opened his eyes from a day-dream of her
to see Jessie McRae looking down at him.

She was on an Indian cayuse, round-bellied and rough. Very erect she
sat, and on her face was the exact expression of scornful hatred he
had seen in his vision of her.

He jumped to his feet. "You--here!"

A hot color flooded her face with anger to the roots of the hair.
Without a word, without another glance at him, she laid the bridle
rein to the pony's neck and swung away.

Unprotesting, he let her go. The situation had jumped at him too
unexpectedly for him to know how to meet it. He stood, motionless, the
red light in his eyes burning like distant camp-fires in the night.
For the first time in his life he had been given the cut direct by a
woman.

Yet she wasn't a woman after all. She was a maid, with that passionate
sense of tragedy which comes only to the very young.

It was in his mind to slap a saddle on his bronco and ride after her.
But why? Could he by sheer dominance of will change her opinion of
him? She had grounded it on good and sufficient reasons. He was
associated in her mind with the greatest humiliation of her life, with
the stinging lash that had cut into her young pride and her buoyant
courage as cruelly as it had into her smooth, satiny flesh. Was it
likely she would listen to any regrets, any explanations? Her hatred
of him was not a matter for argument. It was burnt into her soul as
with a red-hot brand. He could not talk away what he had done or the
thing that he was.

She had come upon him by chance while he was asleep. He guessed that
Angus McRae's party had reached Whoop-Up and had stopped to buy
supplies and perhaps to sell hides and pemmican. The girl had probably
ridden out from the stockade to the open prairie because she loved to
ride. The rest needed no conjecture. In that lone land of vast spaces
travelers always exchanged greetings. She had discovered him lying
in the grass. He might be sick or wounded or dead. The custom of the
country would bring her straight across the swales toward him to find
out whether he needed help.

Then she had seen who he was--and had ridden away.

A sardonic smile of self-mockery stamped for a moment on his brown
boyish face the weariness of the years.


CHAPTER VII

THE MAN IN THE SCARLET JACKET


Morse ambled out at a road gait to take his turn at guard duty. He was
following the principle that the longest way round is the shortest
road to a given place. The reason for this was to ward off any
suspicion that might have arisen if the watchers had always come and
gone by the same trail. Therefore they started for any point of the
compass, swung round in a wide détour, and in course of time arrived
at the cache.

There wasn't any hurry anyhow. Each day had twenty-four hours, and a
fellow lived just as long if he didn't break his neck galloping along
with his tail up like a hill steer on a stampede.

To-day Morse dropped in toward the cache from due west. His eyes
were open, even if the warmth of the midday sun did make him sleepy.
Something he saw made him slip from the saddle, lead his horse into a
draw, and move forward very carefully through the bunch grass.

What he had seen was a man crouched behind some brush, looking down
into the little gorge where the whiskey cache was--a man in leather
boots, tight riding-breeches, scarlet jacket, and jaunty forage cap.
It needed no second glance to tell Tom Morse that the police had run
down the place where they had hidden their cargo.

From out of the little cañon a man appeared. He was carrying a keg of
whiskey. The man was Barney. West had no doubt sent word to him that
he would shortly bring a buyer with him to the rendezvous.

The man in the scarlet jacket rose and stepped out into the open. He
was a few feet from Barney. In his belt there was a revolver, but he
did not draw it.

Barney stopped and stared at him, his mouth open, eyes bulging. "Where
in Heligoland you come from?" he asked.

"From Sarnia, Ontario," the red-coat answered. "Glad to meet you,
friend. I've been looking for you several days."

"For me!" said Barney blankly.

"For you--and for that keg of forty-rod you're carrying. No, don't
drop it. We can talk more comfortably while both your hands are busy."
The constable stepped forward and picked from the ground a rifle.
"I've been lying in the brush two hours waiting for you to get
separated from this. Didn't want you making any mistakes in your
excitement."

"Mistakes!" repeated Barney.

"Yes. You're under arrest, you know, for whiskey-smuggling."

"You're one of these here border police." Barney used the rising
inflection in making his statement.

"Constable Winthrop Beresford, North-West Mounted, at your service,"
replied the officer jauntily. He was a trim, well-set-up youth, quick
of step and crisp of speech.

"What you gonna do with me?"

"Take you to Fort Macleod."

It was perhaps because his eyes were set at not quite the right angles
and because they were so small and wolfish that Barney usually aroused
distrust. He suggested now, with an ingratiating whine in his voice,
that he would like to see a man at Whoop-Up first.

"Jes' a li'l' matter of business," he added by way of explanation.

The constable guessed at his business. The man wanted to let his boss
know what had taken place and to give him a chance to rescue him if he
would. Beresford's duty was to find out who was back of this liquor
running. It would be worth while knowing what man Barney wanted to
talk with. He could afford to take a chance on the rescue.

"Righto," he agreed. "You may put that barrel down now."

Barney laid it down, end up. With one sharp drive of the rifle butt
the officer broke in the top of the keg, He kicked the barrel over
with his foot.

This was the moment Morse chose for putting in an appearance.

"Hello! What's doin'?" he asked casually.

Beresford, cool and quiet, looked straight at him. "I'll ask _you_
that."

"Kinda expensive to irrigate the prairie that way, ain't it?"

"Doesn't cost me anything. How about you?"

Morse laughed at the question fired back at him so promptly. This
young man was very much on the job. "Not a bean," the Montanan said.

"Good. Then you'll enjoy the little show I'm putting on--five thousand
dollars' worth of liquor spilt all at one time."

"Holy Moses! Where is this blind tiger you're raidin'?"

"Down in the gully. Lucky you happened along just by chance. You'll be
able to carry the good news to Whoop-Up and adjacent points."

"You're not really aimin' to spill all that whiskey."

"That's my intention. Any objections?" The scarlet-coated officer
spoke softly, without any edge to his voice. But Tom began to
understand why the clerk at the trading-post had called the Mounted
Police go-getters. This smooth-shaven lad, so easy and carefree
of manner, had a gleam in his eye that meant business. His very
gentleness was ominous.

Tom Morse reflected swiftly. His uncle's firm had taken a chance of
this very finale when it had sent a convoy of liquor into forbidden
territory. Better to lose the stock than to be barred by the Canadian
Government from trading with the Indians at all. This officer was not
one to be bribed or bullied. He would go through with the thing he had
started.

"Why, no! How could I have any objections?" Morse said.

He shot a swift, slant look at Barney, a look that told the Irishman
to say nothing and know nothing, and that he would be protected
against the law.

"Glad you haven't," Constable Beresford replied cheerfully--so very
cheerfully in fact that Morse suspected he would not have been much
daunted if objections had been mentioned. "Perhaps you'll help me with
my little job, then."

The trader grinned. He might as well go the limit with the bluff he
was playing. "Sure. I'll help you make a fourth o' July outa the kegs.
Lead me to 'em."

"You don't know where they are, of course?"

"In the gully, you said," Morse replied innocently

"So I did. Righto. Down you go, then." The constable turned to Barney.
"You next, friend."

A well-defined trail led down the steep side of the gulch. It ended in
a thick growth of willow saplings. Underneath the roof of this foliage
were more than a score of whiskey-casks.

After ten minutes with the rifle butt there was nothing to show for
the cache but broken barrels and a trough of wet sand where the liquor
had run down the bed of the dry gully.

It was time, Morse thought, to play his own small part in the
entertainment.

"After you, gentlemen," Beresford said, stepping aside to let them
take the trail up.

Morse too moved back to let Barney pass. The eyes of the two men met
for a fraction of a second. Tom's lips framed silently one word. In
that time a message was given and received.

The young man followed Barney, the constable at his heels. Morse
stumbled, slipped to all fours, and slid back. He flung out his arms
to steady himself and careened back against the constable. His flying
hands caught at the scarlet coat. His bent head and shoulders thrust
Beresford back and down.

Barney started to run.

The officer struggled to hold his footing against the awkward incubus,
to throw the man off so that he could pursue Barney. His efforts were
vain. Morse, evidently trying to regain his equilibrium, plunged
wildly at him and sent him ploughing into the willows. The Montanan
landed heavily on top, pinned him down, and smothered him.

The scarlet coat was a center of barrel hoops, bushes, staves, and
wildly jerking arms and legs.

Morse made heroic efforts to untangle himself from the clutter. Once
or twice he extricated himself almost, only to lose his balance on the
slippery bushes and come skating down again on the officer just as he
was trying to rise.

It was a scene for a moving-picture comedy, if the screen had been a
feature of that day.

When at last the two men emerged from the gulch, Barney was nowhere to
be seen. With him had vanished the mount of Beresford.

I see almost back to how our wedding? - Or do not you find? "" Yes, my
child, "answered Wilms pressed," thou hast dich sehr - very relaxed.
"Hedwig and he threw this at a glance.

Both noticed how hectic red dyed her cheeks were and how deep, blue
eyes of the Rings umränderten returned.

The figure was slightly tilted forward and the shoulders pulled
forward.

But let's face the narrow lanes still recognize former beauty. Meanwhile
Else had again swept to her husband, she put both hands on his
chest and cried between laughing and crying: 'Freust because you
do not, Wilms, that I wieder da bin?

You're so quiet. "Tenderly lifted her mouth up to him and closed his
eyes as Wilms is difficult and wordlessly to her niederbeugte.

But while he did, his gaze timidly touched the Younger. Silently
Hedwig turned to the window. "And now let us go to dinner," said Else.
"You shall let's see how much I can eat now. No longer what it
used to. "With these words, she let herself down on the sofa, where
Hedwig else had sat at table, and moved next to Wilms.

The sister had her on a chair seat. Then they told themselves eager
bustle the food from, and indeed seemed to come home in a days all
recovered to what they are years of illness in the economy liable
had.

At least they wanted the frischgewonnene force their husbands to
show that he is enjoying it.

And then she started her experiences in the clinic to tell.

Verdüsterte Wilms forehead is always more. Moons since it already had
in his dealings with Hedwig no longer slightest hint recalled that
his home than a hospital balanced, in which only about doctors,
illness and medicine had been negotiated.

Now, while cumbersome Else survived their sufferings described
formally brought back those warm disease and putrefaction odor, for
years had depressed its meaning.

He looked for help to Hedwig, but the girl seemed to listen
attentively and not even his reluctance to share.

That spoiled it for the first lunch completely.

Just to note, he even knives and forks in hand, so he thanked God,
as his wife, despite their appetite praised by all, only fleetingly
genippt had finally picked up the table.

"You know, Heting," she said to Sister and knocked her out of the
maternal cheek: "You look pale. Certainly you have in the recent
past here überanstrengt. But now everything will be different. Oh,
Wilms, how happy I am that I now own everything in the hand will
take. And fits on how quickly I find myself back into it. Then I
will properly care for you, too, my little Heting. "The Angeredete
smiled wistfully, and again met her and the country's eyes in a long,
a lot of agendas view. It was already the drittemal that they are
so silent and sad talking.

Depressed and not able to spend more to dominate, Wilms finally
pulled off.

He said goodbye to his wife to go to the field, the seeds continue to
supervise. But the old game was repeated, Else haschte soon after
his hand.

"Wilms, now you want me alone leave?" She said with quiet sound of
resentment, 'like the first day when I'm here?

He handed his revolver to Beresford. "I'll ride with you."

"Good. Have to borrow your horse till we reach Whoop-Up. You won't
mind walking?"

"Not at all. Some folks think that's what legs were made for,"
answered Morse, grinning.

As he strode across the prairie beside the horse, Morse was still
puzzling over the situation. He perceived that the strength of the
officer's position was wholly a moral one. A lawbreaker was confronted
with an ugly alternative. The only way to escape arrest was to commit
murder. Most men would not go that far, and of those who would the
great majority would be deterred because eventually punishment was
sure. The slightest hesitation, the least apparent doubt, a flicker of
fear on the officer's face, would be fatal to success. He won because
he serenely expected to win, and because there was back of him a
silent, impalpable force as irresistible as the movement of a glacier.

Beresford must have known that the men who lived at Whoop-Up were
unfriendly to the North-West Mounted. Some of them had been put out of
business. Their property had been destroyed and confiscated. Fines
had been imposed on them. The current whisper was that the
whiskey-smugglers would retaliate against the constables in person
whenever there was a chance to do so with impunity. Some day a
debonair wearer of the scarlet coat would ride out gayly from one
of the forts and a riderless horse would return at dusk. There were
outlaws who would ask nothing better than a chance to dry-gulch one of
these inquisitive riders of the plains.

But Beresford rode into the stockade and swung from the saddle with
smiling confidence. He nodded here and there casually to dark, sullen
men who watched his movements with implacably hostile eyes.

His words were addressed to Reddy Madden. "Can you let me have a horse
for a few days and charge it to the Force? I've lost mine."

Some one sniggered offensively. Barney had evidently reached Whoop-Up
and was in hiding.

"Your horse came in a while ago, constable," Madden said civilly.
"It's in the corral back of the store."

"Did it come in without a rider?" Beresford asked.

The question was unnecessary. The horse would have gone to Fort
Macleod and not have come to Whoop-Up unless a rider had guided it
here. But sometimes one found out things from unwilling witnesses if
one asked questions.

"Didn't notice. I was in the store myself."

"Thought perhaps you hadn't noticed," the officer said. "None of you
other gentlemen noticed either, did you?"

The "other gentlemen" held a dogged, sulky silence. A girl cantered
through the gate of the stockade and up to the store. At sight of
Morse her eyes passed swiftly to Beresford. His answered smilingly
what she had asked. It was all over in a flash, but it told the man
from Montana who the informer was that had betrayed to the police the
place of the whiskey cache.

To the best of her limited chance, Jessie McRae was paying an
installment on the debt she owed Bully West and Tom Morse.


CHAPTER VIII

AT SWEET WATER CREEK


Before a fire of buffalo chips Constable Beresford and his prisoner
smoked the pipe of peace. Morse sat on his heels, legs crossed, after
the manner of the camper. The officer lounged at full length, an elbow
dug into the sand as a support for his head. The Montanan was
on parole, so that for the moment at least their relations were
forgotten.

"After the buffalo--what?" asked the American. "The end of the
Indian--is that what it means? And desolation on the plains. Nobody
left but the Hudson's Bay Company trappers, d'you reckon?"

The Canadian answered in one word. "Cattle."

"Some, maybe," Morse assented. "But, holy Moses, think of the millions
it would take to stock this country."

"Bet you the country's stocked inside of five years of the time the
buffalo are cleared out. Look at what the big Texas drives are doing
in Colorado and Wyoming and Montana. Get over the idea that this land
up here is a desert. That's a fool notion our school geographies are
responsible for. Great American Desert? Great American fiddlesticks!
It's a man's country, if you like; but I've yet to see the beat of
it."

Morse had ceased to pay attention. His head was tilted, and he was
listening.

"Some one ridin' this way," he said presently. "Hear the hoofs click
on the shale. Who is it? I wonder. An' what do they want? When folks'
intentions hasn't been declared it's a good notion to hold a hand you
can raise on."

Without haste and without delay Beresford got to his feet. "We'll step
back into the shadow," he announced.

"Looks reasonable to me," agreed the smuggler.

They waited in the semi-darkness back of the camp-fire.

Some one shouted. "Hello, the camp!" At the sound of that clear,
bell-like voice Morse lifted his head to listen better.

The constable answered the call.

Two riders came into the light. One was a girl, the other a slim,
straight young Indian in deerskin shirt and trousers. The girl swung
from the saddle and came forward to the camp-fire. The companion of
her ride shadowed her.

Beresford and his prisoner advanced from the darkness.

"Bully West's after you. He's sworn to kill you," the girl called to
the constable.

"How do you know?"

"Onistah heard him." She indicated with a wave of her hand the
lithe-limbed youth beside her. "Onistah was passing the stable--behind
it, back of the corral. This West was gathering a mob to follow
you--said he was going to hang you for destroying his whiskey."

"He is, eh?" Beresford's salient jaw set. His light blue eyes gleamed
hard and chill. He would see about that.

"They'll be here soon. This West was sure you'd camp here at Sweet
Water Creek, close to the ford." A note of excitement pulsed in the
girl's voice. "We heard 'em once behind us on the road. You'd better
hurry."

The constable swung toward the Montanan. His eyes bored into those of
the prisoner. Would this man keep his parole or not? He would find out
pretty soon.

"Saddle up, Morse. I'll pack my kit. We'll hit the trail."

"Listen." Jessie stood a moment, head lifted. "What's that?"

Onistah moved a step forward, so that for a moment the firelight
flickered over the copper-colored face. Tom Morse made a discovery.
This man was the Blackfoot he had rescued from the Crees.

"Horses," the Indian said, and held up the fingers of both hands to
indicate the numbers. "Coming up creek. Here soon."

"We'll move back to the big rocks and I'll make a stand there,"
the officer told the whiskey-runner. "Slap the saddles on without
cinching. We've got no time to lose." His voice lost its curtness as
he turned to the girl. "Miss McRae, I'll not forget this. Very likely
you've saved my life. Now you and Onistah had better slip away
quietly. You mustn't be seen here."

"Why mustn't I?" she asked quickly. "I don't care who sees me."

She looked at Morse as she spoke, head up, with that little touch of
scornful defiance in the quivering nostrils that seemed to express a
spirit free and unafraid. The sense of superiority is generally not a
lovely manifestation in any human being, but there are moments when it
tells of something fine, a disdain of actions low and mean.

Morse strode away to the place where the horses were picketed. He
could hear voices farther down the creek, caught once a snatch of
words.

"... must be somewheres near, I tell you."

Noiselessly he slipped on the saddles, pulled the picket-pins, and
moved toward the big rocks.

The place was a landmark. The erosion of the ages had played strange
tricks with the sandstone. The rocks rose like huge red toadstools or
like prehistoric animals of vast size. One of them was known as the
Three Bears, another as the Elephant.

Among these boulders Morse found the party he had just left. The
officer was still trying to persuade Jessie McRae to attempt escape.
She refused, stubbornly.

"There are three of us here. Onistah is a good shot. So am I. For that
matter, if anybody is going to escape, it had better be you," she
said.

"Too late now," Morse said. "See, they've found the camp-fire."

Nine or ten riders had come out of the darkness and were approaching
the camping-ground. West was in the lead. Morse recognized Barney
and Brad Stearns. Two of the others were half-breeds, one an Indian
trailer of the Piegan tribe.

"He must 'a' heard us comin' and pulled out," Barney said.

"Then he's back in the red rocks," boomed West triumphantly.

"Soon find out." Brad Stearns turned the head of his horse toward the
rocks and shouted. "Hello, Tom! You there?"

No answer came from the rocks.

"Don't prove a thing," West broke out impatiently. "This fellow's got
Tom buffaloed. Didn't he make him smash the barrels? Didn't he take
away his six-gun from him and bring him along like he hadn't any mind
of his own? Tom's yellow. Got a streak a foot wide."

"Nothin' of the kind," denied Stearns, indignation in his voice. "I
done brought up that boy by hand--learned him all he knows about
ridin' and ropin'. He'll do to take along."

"Hmp! He always fooled you, Brad. Different here. I'm aimin' to give
him the wallopin' of his life when I meet up with him. And that'll be
soon, if he's up there in the rocks. I'm goin' a-shootin'." Bully West
drew his revolver and rode forward.

The constable had disposed of his forces so that behind the cover of
the sandstone boulders they commanded the approach. He had tried to
persuade Jessie that this was not her fight, but a question from her
had silenced him.

"If that Bully West finds me here, after he's killed you, d' you think
I can get him to let me go because it wasn't my fight?"

She had asked it with flashing eyes, in which for an instant he had
seen the savagery of fear leap out. Beresford was troubled. The girl
was right enough. If West went the length of murder, he would be an
outlaw. Sleeping Dawn would not be safe with him after she had ridden
out to warn his enemy that he was coming. The fellow was a primeval
brute. His reputation had run over the whole border country of
Rupert's Land.

Now he appealed to Morse. "If they get me, will you try to save Miss
McRae? This fellow West is a devil, I hear."

The officer caught a gleam of hot red eyes. "I'll 'tend to that. We'll
mix first, him 'n' me. Question now is, do I get a gun?"

"What for?"

"Didn't you hear him make his brags about what he was gonna do to me?
If there's shootin' I'm in on it, ain't I?"

"No. You're a prisoner. I can't arm you unless your life is in
danger."

West pulled up his horse about sixty yards from the rocks. He shouted
a profane order. The purport of it was that Beresford had better come
out with his hands up if he didn't want to be dragged out by a rope
around his neck. The man's speech crackled with oaths and obscenity.

The constable stepped into the open a few yards. "What do you want?"
he asked.

"You." The whiskey-runner screamed it in a sudden gust of passion.
"Think you can make a fool of Bully West? Think you can bust up our
cargo an' get away with it? I'll show you where you head in at."

"Don't make any mistake, West," advised the officer, his voice cold as
the splash of ice-water. "Three of us are here, all with rifles, all
dead shots. If you attack us, some of you are going to get killed."

"Tha's a lie. You're alone--except for Tom Morse, an' he ain't fool
enough to fight to go to jail. I've got you where I want you." West
swung from the saddle and came straddling forward. In the uncertain
light he looked more like some misbegotten ogre than a human being.

"That's far enough," warned Beresford, not a trace of excitement in
manner or speech. His hands hung by his sides. He gave no sign of
knowing that he had a revolver strapped to his hip ready for action.

The liquor smuggler stopped to pour out abuse. He was working himself
up to a passion that would justify murder. The weapon in his hand
swept wildly back and forth. Presently it would focus down to a deadly
concentration in which all motion would cease.

The torrent of vilification died on the man's lips. He stared past the
constable with bulging eyes. From the rocks three figures had come.
Two of them carried rifles. All three of them he recognized. His
astonishment paralyzed the scurrilous tongue. What was McRae's girl
doing at the camp of the officer?

It was characteristic of him that he suspected the worst of her.
Either Tom Morse or this red-coat had beaten him to his prey. Jealousy
and outraged vanity flared up in him so that discretion vanished.

The barrel of his revolver came down and began to spit flame.

Beresford gave orders. "Back to the rocks." He retreated, backward,
firing as he moved.

The companions of West surged forward. Shots, shouts, the shifting
blur of moving figures, filled the night. Under cover of the darkness
the defenders reached again the big rocks.

The constable counted noses. "Everybody all right?" he asked. Then,
abruptly, he snapped out: "Who was responsible for that crazy business
of you coming out into the open?"

"Me," said the girl. "I wanted that West to know you weren't alone."

"Didn't you know better than to let her do it?" the officer demanded
of Morse.

"He couldn't help it. He tried to keep me back. What right has he to
interfere with me?" she wanted to know, stiffening.

"You'll do as I say now," the constable said crisply. "Get back of
that rock there, Miss McRae, and stay there. Don't move from cover
unless I tell you to."

Her dark, stormy eyes challenged his, but she moved sullenly to obey.
Rebel though she was, the code of the frontier claimed and held her
respect. She had learned of life that there were times when her will
must be subordinated for the general good.


CHAPTER IX

TOM MAKES A COLLECTION


The attackers drew back and gathered together for consultation. West's
anger had stirred their own smoldering resentment at the police, had
dominated them, and had brought them on a journey of vengeance. But
they had not come out with any intention of storming a defended
fortress. The enthusiasm of the small mob ebbed.

"I reckon we done bit off more'n we can chaw," Harvey Gosse murmured,
rubbing his bristly chin. "I ain't what you might call noways anxious
to have them fellows spill lead into me."

"Ten of us here. One man, an Injun, an' a breed girl over there. You
lookin' for better odds, Harv?" jeered the leader of the party.

"I never heard that a feller was any less dead because an Injun or a
girl shot him," the lank smuggler retorted.

"Be reasonable, Bully," urged Barney with his ingratiating whine. "We
come out to fix the red-coat. We figured he was alone except for Tom,
an' o' course Tom's with us. But this here's a different proposition.
Too many witnesses ag'in' us. I reckon you ain't tellin' us it's safe
to shoot up Angus McRae's daughter even if she is a métis."

"Forget her," the big whiskey-runner snarled. "She won't be a witness
against us."

"Why won't she?"

"Hell's hinges! Do I have to tell you all my plans? I'm sayin' she
won't. That goes." He flung out a gesture of scarcely restrained rage.
He was not one who could reason away opposition with any patience. It
was his temperament to override it.

Brad Stearns rubbed his bald head. He always did when he was working
out a mental problem. West's declaration could mean only one of two
things. Either the girl would not be alive to give witness or she
would be silent because she had thrown in her lot with the big trader.

The old-timer knew West's vanity and his weakness for women. From Tom
Morse he had heard of his offer to McRae for the girl. Now he had no
doubt what the man intended.

But what of her? What of the girl he had seen at her father's camp,
the heart's desire of the rugged old Scotchman? In the lightness
of her step, in the lift of her head, in speech and gesture and
expression of face, she was of the white race, an inheritor of its
civilization and of its traditions. Only her dusky color and a certain
wild shyness seemed born of the native blood in her. She was proud,
passionate, high-spirited. Would she tamely accept Bully West for her
master and go to his tent as his squaw? Brad didn't believe it. She
would fight--fight desperately, with barbaric savagery.

Her fight would avail her nothing. If driven to it, West would take
her with him into the fastnesses of the Lone Lands. They would
disappear from the sight of men for months. He would travel swiftly
with her to the great river. Every sweep of his canoe paddle would
carry them deeper into that virgin North where they could live on what
his rifle and rod won for the pot. A little salt, pemmican, and flour
would be all the supplies he needed to take with them.

Brad had no intention of being a cat's-paw for him. The older man had
come along to save Tom Morse from prison and for no other reason. He
did not intend to be swept into indiscriminate crime.

"Don't go with me, Bully," Stearns said. "Count me out. Right here's
where I head for Whoop-Up."

He turned his horse's head and rode into the darkness.

West looked after him, cursing. "We're better off without the
white-livered coyote," he said at last.

"Brad ain't so fur off at that. I'd like blame well to be moseyin' to
Whoop-Up my own self," Gosse said uneasily.

"You'll stay right here an' go through with this job, Harv," West
told him flatly. "All you boys'll do just that. If any of you's got
a different notion we'll settle that here an' now. How about it?" He
straddled up and down in front of his men, menacing them with knotted
fists and sulky eyes.

Nobody cared to argue the matter with him. He showed his broken teeth
in a sour grin.

"Tha's settled, then," he went on. "It's my say-so. My orders go--if
there's no objections."

His outthrust head, set low on the hunched shoulders, moved from right
to left threateningly as his gaze passed from one to another. If there
were any objections they were not mentioned aloud.

"Now we know where we're at," he continued. "It'll be thisaway. Most
of us will scatter out an' fire at the rocks from the front here; the
others'll sneak round an' come up from behind--get right into the
rocks before this bully-puss fellow knows it. If you get a chance,
plug him in the back, but don't hurt the Injun girl. Y' understand? I
want her alive an' not wounded. If she gets shot up, some one's liable
to get his head knocked off."

But it did not, after all, turn out quite the way West had planned it.
He left out of account one factor--a man among the rocks who had been
denied a weapon and any part in the fighting.

The feint from the front was animated enough. The attackers scattered
and from behind clumps of brush grass and bushes poured in a fire that
kept the defenders busy. Barney, with the half-breeds and the Indian
at heel, made a wide circle and crept up to the red sandstone
outcroppings. He did not relish the job any more than those behind
him did, but he was a creature of West and usually did as he was told
after a bit of grumbling. It was not safe for him to refuse.

To Tom Morse, used to Bully West and his ways, the frontal attack did
not seem quite genuine. It was desultory and ineffective. Why? What
trick did Bully have up his sleeve? Tom put himself in his place to
see what he would do.

And instantly he knew. The real attack would come from the rear. With
the firing of the first shot back there, Bully West would charge.
Taken on both sides the garrison would fall easy victims.

Good castle smoke lifted your pride! ¡Strange legend of romantic
love and desperate forge back in your fun!. "Doña Luz, on hearing
this evil voice, that voice was undoubtedly the hell was he afraid
that weighs that love Fr Enrique and his jealousy and despair
were illusory. For this, Mrs. Light was good, and was also strong and
vigorous will, and soon imposed silence the voice in your chest and
defuse the uproar and embarrassment caused to the voice.

The most healthy and was the most reasonable assume that the Father
had not thought about it but never think of as a neighbor of choice,
and that this should cheer her heart, and that it was glad. Doña Luz
therefore wanted in the outside, in their relations with the Father,
in his conversations and dealings with him, do not introduce new.

Any new accusation that he appeared before there was a feeling that
she had illicit removed his soul, and that if still existed in the
father, was illegal and ugly. He was able to doña Luz on this idea,
that almost never end their love and show a predilection towards P.
Enrique.

He took his hand, he gazed with unutterable tenderness, you spellbound
smiled, clapped him as less than divine judgments in all their sentences
and looking for conversation and spells it. Father had the rare gift
to see in the dark background of hearts, and watched in Doña Luz,
and, warned by the disappointment, none are known to love all those
shows had.

But it shows the sweetness of the thought of her as persistent and
poorly paid you love destroyed his chest. What do we know if it was
from arrogance or Christian virtue, or both, as the spirit of man
mix and combine the good times and bad instincts, and good and bad
angels fighting, motivated by reasons found, and plotting, however,
at the same end?

The truth is that neither a complaint or a sigh or a glance or a word,
I would like subtly interpreted, never revealed the Father Enrique,
nor hinted to the curious and eager eyes of the Doña Luz hidden in
the storm center of your soul. Do not go to the salon as there had
gone, and leave the place or Philippines or any other country,
just doña Luz married, the father parecíale miserable weakness and
public confession of his passion crime.

He imagines that retrayéndose all or fugándose, would give scandal, would
have us believe that there maybe no one had believed. The father was
embarrassed that no one, live it, came to guess his profane love, but
no one was more embarrassed that Doña Luz. "Muera me, my God, I die
- I said - before she knows it I loved, still love her. "To
accomplish this, the Father himself ever more vicious fighting.

Domain was needed more on the natural condition to win this struggle
without the esparciata shed a tear and without launching a complaint
is made by tearing up the body's fingernails fierce.

Neither anger nor envy, nor jealousy, nor love show the proposed P.

Enrique, but friendship and unalterable fine as always. And it
got so that doña Luz eventually discard any suspicion that the
father had never loved.

Then he thought dead for all who come to our being affected by the senses,
he believed they were not impervious to go directly to the spirit
of God.

Well explained better, without prejudice to his vanity, that Father
had not loved.

Doña Luz also understood that there had offended in his thoughts to the
Father, love imaginándosele.

And for relief, for the admiration of his superior impassivity it
caused, by the ever stronger conviction that would not fall in love,
so what would be left to carry his love and finesse offered him
further tests flattering deep friendship.

The spirit is strong and we all suffer, but our body is weak, and the
spirit that kept him in business deals with inhumane beyond the forces
of the body, eventually killing him. mocedad Back in her when he
was healthy and robust, the Father had done great penances and was
hard and terrible to his poor body.

Later quebrantadísimo and fatigued by their work, gave the advice
and mandate of doctors and confessors, and was careful and not
abused.

The idea that the excesses of the ascetic life were like a slow and
painful suicide and perversion that bordered on the warp and destroy
us in the most beautiful works of the Almighty, and this being the
way that the soul is in the land and that the same Holy Scriptures
call the temple of the Holy Spirit, had come to the mind of the
Father, to desist from material moviéndole mortifications.

Since then the Father was taking care of your body takes care of
the slave as a garment, a machine that his master trusted him, so
that using it will make the farm prosper.

What this way of thinking could be proud of what cleared the Father,
by giving in your mind at all that God did not need it for anything,
that your not worth more than that of any other man, but God had
created for and not something to be destroyed because it was destroyed
violate a divine law, or wanting to disturb disturb the harmonious
whole of things, and distract a living force in the violent action
point that nature has marked. bowing to all these considerations ,
Fr Henry looking for his health and his life, subject to an orderly
and well.

There is materially injured, is not a long time was racked with
fasting, sackcloth and with vigils enforced, but in this fight that
mysterious ventured in this silence and dissimulation, in this
apparent impassivity adopted in this tyrannical domination anguished
spirit that wanted to impose and imposed not leave the body forward
in their ayes or pain, or crying, or even a contraction of muscles
face, the father came up, perhaps inadvertently, the most frightening
of martyrdom, a true revenge, rough punishment of his guilt, if
there was fault.

The flight athletes in the more vigorous exercises, while the
warrior brave battle waged over the sustained by the enthusiasm and
excitement, nervous, tired or not feel his coming to desserts.

Prostration occurs not only after the triumph.

The soldier fell dead of Marathon to the Athenians that he gave the
news of victory. No other fate Fr Henry maintained his role beautifully,
while the presence of Doña Luz or in the presence of any other
person.

But the withdrawal of his room, as if loosening the springs that
had their nerves in perpetual tension, tended to fall faint. Mal
stifled sighs of her chest appeared, which felt painful oppression;
had vertigo, a hearing will be clouds, he slept in the fingers or
noticed them cramps and unusual cold, images and species kept his
memory turned into confusion ; you hurt your head until it locks
the tongue and stutter when talking to Ramon, his servant.

Repeated attacks of this kind took Fr Enrique, always in the solitude
of your stay.

The father had some medical knowledge, and he himself was cured with
the aid of his servant. And was put SINAP and provide strong friction,
as applied to the nose, some grass, by virtue of which caused a
slight release of blood, and covered his head with a cloth soaked
in cold water.

When relieved of his evil is not never ceased to tell Ramon - This
has not been anything. Shut up and not tell anyone I was sick. -
Well it is, my master, the servant replied.

So, in a morning, which was the tenth day after the departure of D.
Jaime, Father Henry had an attack stronger than before.

That night, as counted after Ramon, the father was unable to sleep: he
had been agitadísimo. Ramon had a great sense steps walking around
the room. Had gone on tiptoe so as not to get angry that you spy, and
had seen him write. After noting that he had again walked in the room.
The father fell asleep finally, but with a dream that scared enough
to his faithful servant, sleep hard, together with a snore as a
whistle or rattle.

Demudado His face was pale and dark circles that normally. Ramon,
however, had such respect for the orders they gave him his master,
who did not dare to call the doctor.

Nor dare to awaken to the Father. This aroused by it, but his awakening
was tremendous. He was still the muscles of the face, tongue
paralyzed that he could not utter a word, looking uncertain, and
the extremities of the body stiff and cold as marble.

Ramon, desolate and full of terror, he went in search of D.

Anselmo and called D. Acisclo to accompany his nephew. Don Anselmo came
early, and just saw and inspected the patient, his face showed
dismay at the care that he inspired. - Sea V.

Franco, D.

Anselmo - Acisclo Don said - what is my nephew - is a very serious
case - sadly replied the doctor. - How come?

Who to believe - "said Don Acisclo - when yesterday was so good - You
did not believe it because he did not see the evil that was killing
him inside.

His nephew V. is very experienced and knows how to conceal. I wish you
had not hidden so much and we could have it in time! - What,
understands V. that no time is it? - Mr D. Acisclo you want heart
to his nephew, but you are brave and full of soul. What bush? It is
necessary to know all V.. The Father is in the greatest danger. -
What is his disease?

- A rare disease in which the strong and blood in weak and Entec,
and, therefore, in these much more dangerous.

Perhaps hardest workers, outrageous upsets, long vigils, the
agitation of the soul and fire severely restrained compressed
passions, work mysteriously in our bodies and promote this explosion:
the heart swells, becomes an unhealthy and irregular, and suddenly
floods the brain with blood. - What does V. with all that mean - I
mean your nephew you have a fulminant apoplegía.

Acisclo Don, who loved his nephew, who considered the complement of
the glory of his family, he was the other complement had a sincere
and deep pain, and stimulated with prayers and laments the zeal
of the physician. he did not need incentives.

Wanted to return health to the Father but he knew that his situation
was desperate, that only a miracle could save him, and he did
not believe in miracles. Humanely, meanwhile, knew he could and
soon.

Did not want to bleed the patient because he was too weak, but gave
the strongest and best-known drugs for these cases.

In order to prevent or to cede to the inflammation of the membranes
of the head, put him in a caustic back together to the neck, and
he used a lever to draw blood and heat to the extremities. All,
however, was in vain.

The news of the illness of Father ran away by the place and reached
the ears of Doña Luz , who came to see him instantly.

Who knows the strange and sad thoughts that torment Doña Luz,
when he entered the room where the father was in bed in the
room she had occupied it until she married and where he slept for
more than twelve years? Silent and serious doña Luz came to the bedside.
There, with his head lifted and supported by several pillows, was
the Father without any sign of knowledge.

The eyes as asleep, environments eyelids, the tongue moves. Maybe
I felt, saw and understood yet, but had no means of communicating
their feelings due to lack of muscle strength.

Long time he looked doña Luz without saying word. Finally broke into
bitter weeping.

Then sat in a chair in the darkest corner of the bedroom, and remained
silent and crying, and tried to forget his presence there. With
the turmoil of the three attendants of the patient, there was a
time when they left him alone with Ms light.

She then rose from his seat, and look again with peer, with obstinacy,
with invincible attraction, as when the traveler is on the brink
of an abyss the abyss looks that attracted him, and anxious to see
what's what deep and dark in her womb. doña Luz Tears gushed with
greater abundance then.

Believed, as ever, with more vehemence than ever, that the man
was dead and his Christ appeared. Imagined, or was in effect, that the
Father, still, felt and understood it back in and looked in an effort
to dominate even with the brilliance of will, nerve and muscle
inert no longer obey him.

Understood, finally, that the look of the supplicant was sick, love,
sadly sweet.

For an irresistible impulse, deeply moved, almost without realizing
it, without hesitation and without thinking too, as it does not
hesitate or think what moves driven by a fatal Doña Luz approached
gently to the face of the Father, and placed in the mouth macilenta
his forehead, and then sleeping in their eyelids, and then in her
mouth, and contracted, and kissed with fervent devotion, as one who
kisses relics. It was more Doña Luz. Exhale a woe! Acute fainted and
fell on the floor.

The father remained motionless as before. Don Anselmo, D.

Acisclo Ramón and went away. - What nonsense!

- Said Don Anselmo -.

What we have left here alone with this lady? This lady is very vehement,
and should not be here. In addition, the patient needs solitude.

Doña Luz was recovered a little, and resisted the last words of Mr
Anselmo, who was able to hear and understand well, Father left the
room.

Three hours later Fr Enrique had ceased to exist.

Rare is the man whose memory survives long years of death. The time
just to grief, the body consumes the earth and oblivion swallows
memories.

But always or almost always, a little death occurs for every man
the time of greatest indulgence, affection and estimate that the
world gives.

Those who are unaware of the strong as insignificant, think of him
when he died, because death makes it more worthy of commemoration
of his life; _realiza its esencia_, as the philosophers to fashion:
those who envied him lay the envy, the you hated hatred, those who
were tired of seeing inwardly rejoice that you no longer see, and
for the joy of relief, and avoid coming at night, in pain, pulling
on the feet, making him the highest praise, all of their flaws
disappear anytime soon, as if sinking into the grave, and only see
their perfections in resolution, the dead are dying reconciles with
almost all mankind, so that it always goes away and leaves inherit
something: if not fifth and palaces, one for begging in the sun.

Either way, with the death of the Father, from whom, except the places,
and nobody did Villafría case, there was a place around the
resurgence of enthusiasm and affection towards him.

Came to admire and to celebrate a thousand times more than in the days
of their arrival.

We just had the same treaty, vulgar imagination could invent and
fantasize at will.

Their virtues were weighted. Were brought to light many works of mercy
that he indeed did. Bordeaux is the simple story of his death with a
thousand details that played in the marvelous.

Beatas assumed that it was the same Father announced the exact day
and hour of his glorious transit, and many credited that he had
died in the odor of sanctity, and that gift should try to canonize
Acisclo sent to Rome for this purpose a file Clavet well.

Some skeptics of the place wanted to imply that all that was said
to flatter Acisclo Don, who really regretted the death of nephew and
praised in all the tones that he could use. Otherwise, disbelief and
gullible, or by making a chorus D. Acisclo either because they feel,
all agreed that the dead had been what is called a beautiful subject,
full of kindness and discretion, and even holy, understanding each
other's holiness in their own way.

No one, however, cried with more tenderness, had more serious penalty
for the death of Fr Enrique that the person knew or believed to have
evidence that he was not holy at all. Doña Luz during the early
days was desolate. Built up unique brooding penalty. On the one hand
some pride when he returned to believe that she had instilled a passion
killer, and then the horror it caused such pride, otherwise the
confused and vague remorse suspicion that she instinctively
abhorrent, without reflection, birth had caused and done that before
so lost in soul and blissfully quiet, and finally everything was
clear that their dream of vanity.

Is not Ms Luz could have forged a novel? What the Father had told him
to believe in love? He had died of love or stroke? The romantic, the
sentimental was she who kissed him madly when expired. "If I have
been lighter, the watermelon and extravagant?

If I must have been love with the monk, who believed in me but not
with paternal affection, innocent and simple? ". Doña Luz Al ruminate
and filled with shame and trembling like a azogue and is angry with
herself, tried criminal, crazy and up infidel.

While this was happening in the spirit of Doña Luz, gift Acisclo divided
among their children or keep for themselves and the few poor
articles that Father had left, and that more had to be preserved as
sacred by the memory that they had little worth. In this partition
reserved D. Doña Luz Acisclo for the few books that the friar had.
There was unaware D.

Acisclo the father was writing a book until he thought it might give
the appearance, although it had been incomplete. To get the manuscript,
he found, and considering that the only two people capable of
understanding in place what he called a _monserga_ were D.

Anselmo and Doña Luz, and D. Anselmo did not appreciate being wicked
as well as the _monserga_ Doña Luz, who was a believer, do not hesitate
to bring the manuscript to doña Luz, even without opening its
pages, because it hampered the black, as accounts were not winning
and he left reaching in its favor.

Doña Luz received the manuscript of the revered Father, and not well
D. Acisclo left alone, he opened with eager curiosity and began to
read. In his impatience hojeaba and walked all the pages, devouring
its contents on the fly, trying to understand the whole, and then
leaving to read everything carefully. A bit of browsing, was doña
Luz with loose leaves. His look was fixed on them.

The heart told him to shut something very interesting.
"Rather a fathead, Barney is. If he's guilty, it's not as a principal.
You'd much better send me up."

The officer laughed behind the hand that stroked the mustache. "Do you
want to be judge and jury as well as prisoner, my lad?"

"Thought perhaps my uncle would understand the spirit of your message
better if Barney went along with me, Inspector." The brown eyes were
open and guileless.

MacLean studied the Montanan deliberately. He began to recognize
unusual qualities in this youth.

"Can't say I care for your friend Barney. He's a bad egg, or I miss my
guess."

"Not much taken with him myself. Thought if I'd get him to travel
south with me it might save you some trouble."

"It might," the Inspector agreed. "It's his first offense so far as
I know." Under bristling eyebrows he shot a swift look at this
self-assured youngster. He had noticed that men matured at an early
age on the frontier. The school of emergency developed them fast.
But Morse struck him as more competent even than the other boyish
plainsmen he had met. "Will you be responsible for him?"

The Montanan came to scratch reluctantly. He had no desire to be bear
leader for such a doubtful specimen as Barney.

"Yes," he said, after a pause.

"Keep him in the States, will you?"

"Yes."

"Take him along, then. Wish you luck of him."

As soon as he reached Fort Benton, Tom reported to his uncle. He told
the story of the whiskey cargo and its fate, together with his own
adventures subsequent to that time.

The head of the trading firm was a long, loose-jointed Yankee who had
drifted West in his youth. Since then he had acquired gray hairs and
large business interests. At Inspector MacLean's message he grinned.

"Thinks it's bad business, does he?"

"Told me to tell you so," Tom answered.

"Didn't say why, I guess."

"No."

The old New Englander fished from a hip pocket a plug of tobacco, cut
off a liberal chew, and stowed this in his cheek. Then, lounging back
in the chair, he cocked a shrewd eye at his nephew.

"Wonder what he meant."

Tom volunteered no opinion. He recognized his uncle's canny habit of
fishing in other people's minds for confirmation of what was in his
own.

"Got any idee what he was drivin' at?" the old pioneer went on.

"Sorta."

C.N. Morse chuckled. "Got a notion myself. Let's hear yours."

"The trade with the North-West Mounted is gonna be big for a while.
The Force needs all kinds of supplies. It'll have to deal through some
firm in Benton as a clearin' house. He's servin' notice that unless
C.N. Morse & Company mends its ways, it can't do business with the
N.W.M.P."

"That all?" asked the head of the firm.

"That's only half of it. The other half is that no firm of
whiskey-runners will be allowed to trade across the line."

C.N. gave another little chirrup of mirth. "Keep your brains whittled
up, don't you? Any advice you'd like to give?"

Tom was not to be drawn. "None, sir."

"No comments, son? Passin' it up to Uncle Newt, eh?"

"You're the head of the firm. I'm hired to do as I'm told."

"You figure on obeyin' orders and lettin' it go at that?"

"Not quite." The young fellow's square chin jutted out. "For instance,
I'm not gonna smuggle liquor through any more. I had my eyes opened
this trip. You haven't been on the ground like I have. If you want a
plain word for it, Uncle Newt--"

"Speak right out in meetin', Tom. Shouldn't wonder but what I can
stand it." The transplanted Yankee slanted at his nephew a quizzical
smile. "I been hearin' more or less plain language for quite a spell,
son."

Tom gave it to him straight from the shoulder, quietly but without
apology. "Sellin' whiskey to the tribes results in wholesale murder,
sir."

"Strong talk, boy," his uncle drawled.

"Not too strong. You know I don't mean anything personal, Uncle Newt.
To understand this thing you've got to go up there an' see it. The
plains tribes up there go crazy over fire-water an' start killin' each
other. It's a crime to let 'em have it."

Young Morse began to tell stories of instances that had come under his
own observation, of others that he had heard from reliable sources.
Presently he found himself embarked on the tale of his adventures with
Sleeping Dawn.

The fur-trader heard him patiently. The dusty wrinkled boots of the
merchant rested on the desk. His chair was tilted back in such a way
that the weight of his body was distributed between the back of his
neck, the lower end of the spine, and his heels. He looked a picture
of sleepy, indolent ease, but Tom knew he was not missing the least
detail.

A shadow darkened the doorway of the office. Behind it straddled a
huge, ungainly figure.

"'Lo, West! How're tricks?" C.N. Morse asked in his lazy way. He did
not rise from the chair or offer to shake hands, but that might be
because it was not his custom to exert himself.

West stopped in his stride, choking with wrath. He had caught sight of
Tom and was glaring at him. "You're here, eh? Sneaked home to try to
square yourself with the old man, did ya?" The trail foreman turned to
the uncle. "I wanta tell you he double-crossed you for fair, C.N. He's
got a heluva nerve to come back here after playin' in with the police
the way he done up there."

"I've heard something about that," the fur-trader admitted cautiously.
"You told me Tom an' you didn't exactly gee."

"He'll never drive another bull-team for me again." West tacked to his
pronouncement a curdling oath.

"We'll call that settled, then. You're through bull-whackin', Tom."
There was a little twitch of whimsical mirth at the corners of the old
man's mouth.

"Now you're shoutin, C.N. Threw me down from start to finish, he did.
First off, when the breed girl busted the casks, he took her home
'stead of bringin' her to me. Then at old McRae's camp when I was
defendin' myself, he jumped me too. My notion is from the way he acted
that he let on to the red-coat where the cache was. Finally when I
rode out to rescue him, he sided in with the other fellow. Hadn't been
for him I'd never 'a' had this slug in my leg." The big smuggler
spoke with extraordinary vehemence, spicing his speech liberally with
sulphurous language.

The grizzled Yankee accepted the foreman's attitude with a wave of the
hand that dismissed any counterargument. But there was an ironic gleam
in his eye.

"'Nough said, West. If you're that sot on it, the boy quits the
company pay-roll as an employee right now. I won't have him annoyin'
you another hour. He becomes a member of the firm to-day."

The big bully's jaw sagged. He stared at his lean employer as though a
small bomb had exploded at his feet and numbed his brains. But he was
no more surprised than Tom, whose wooden face was expressionless.

"Goddlemighty! Ain't I jus' been tellin' you how he wrecked the whole
show--how he sold out to that bunch of spies the Canadian Gov'ment has
done sent up there?" exploded West.

"Oh, I don't guess he did that," Morse, Senior, said lightly. "We
got to remember that times are changin', West. Law's comin' into the
country an' we old-timers oughta meet it halfway with the glad hand.
You can't buck the Union Jack any more than you could Uncle Sam. I
figure I've sent my last shipment of liquor across the line."

"Scared, are you?" sneered the trail boss.

"Maybe I am. Reckon I'm too old to play the smuggler's game. And I've
got a hankerin' for respectability--want the firm to stand well with
the new settlers. Legitimate business from now on. That's our motto,
boys."

"What church you been j'inin', C.N.?"

"Well, maybe it'll come to that too. Think I'd make a good deacon?"
the merchant asked amiably, untwining his legs and rising to stretch.

West slammed a big fist on the table so that the inkwell and the pens
jumped. "All I got to say is that this new Sunday-school outfit you
aim to run won't have no use for a he-man. I'm quittin' you right
now."

The foreman made the threat as a bluff. He was the most surprised man
in Montana when his employer called it quietly, speaking still in the
slow, nasal voice of perfect good-nature.

"Maybe you're right, West. That's for you to say, of course. You know
your own business best. Figure out your time an' I'll have Benson
write you a check. Hope you find a good job."

The sense of baffled anger in West foamed up. His head dropped down
and forward threateningly.

"You do, eh? Lemme tell you this, C.N. I don't ask no odds of you or
any other guy. Jes' because you're the head of a big outfit you can't
run on me. I won't stand for it a minute."

"Of course not. I'd know better'n to try that with you. No hard
feelings even if you quit us." It was a characteristic of the New
Englander that while he was a forceful figure in this man's country,
he rarely quarreled with any one.

"That so? Well, you listen here. I been layin' off that new pardner of
yours because he's yore kin. Not anymore. Different now. He's liable
to have a heluva time an' don't you forget it for a minute."

The fur-trader chewed his cud imperturbably. When he spoke it Was
still without a trace of acrimony.

"Guess you'll think better of that maybe, West. Guess you're a little
hot under the collar, ain't you? Don't hardly pay to hold grudges,
does it? There was Rhinegoldt now. Kept nursin' his wrongs an' finally
landed in the pen. Bad medicine, looks like to me."

West was no imbecile. He understood the threat underneath the suave
words of the storekeeper. Rhinegoldt had gone to the penitentiary
because C.N. Morse had willed it so. The inference was that another
lawbreaker might go for the same reason. The trail boss knew that this
was no idle threat. Morse could put him behind the bars any time he
chose. The evidence was in his hands.

The bully glared at him. "You try that, C.N. Jus' try it once.
There'll be a sudden death in the Morse family if you do. Mebbe two.
Me, I'd gun you both for a copper cent. Don't fool yourself a minute."

"Kinda foolish talk, West. Don't buy you anything. Guess you better
go home an' cool off, hadn't you? I'll have your time made up to-day,
unless you want your check right now."

The broken teeth of the desperado clicked as his jaw clamped. He
looked from the smiling, steady-eyed trader to the brown-faced youth
who watched the scene with such cool, alert attention. He fought with
a wild, furious impulse in himself to go through with his threat,
to clean up and head out into the wilds. But some saving sense of
prudence held his hand. C.N. Morse was too big game for him.

"To hell with the check," he snarled, and swinging on his heel jingled
out of the office.

The nephew spoke first. "You got rid of him on purpose."

"Looked that way to you, did it?" the uncle asked in his usual
indirect way.

"Why?"

"Guess you'd say it was because he won't fit into the new policy of
the firm. Guess you'd say he'd always be gettin' us into trouble with
his overbearin' and crooked ways."

"That's true. He would."

"Maybe it would be a good idee to watch him mighty close. They say
he's a bad hombre. Might be unlucky for any one he got the drop on."

Tom knew he was being warned. "I'll look out for him," he promised.

The older man changed the subject smilingly. "Here's where C.N. Morse
& Company turns over a leaf, son. No more business gambles. Legitimate
trade only. That the idee you're figurin' on makin' me live up to?"

"Suits me if it does you," Tom answered cheerfully, "But where do
I come in? What's my job in the firm? You'll notice I haven't said
'Thanks' yet."

"You?" C.N. gave him a sly, dry smile. "Oh, all you have to do is to
handle our business north of the line--buy, sell, trade, build up
friendly relations with the Indians and trappers, keep friendly with
the police, and a few little things like that."

Tom grinned.

"Won't have a thing to do, will I?"


CHAPTER XII

TOM DUCKS TROUBLE


To Tom Morse, sitting within the railed space that served for an
office in the company store at Faraway, came a light-stepping youth in
trim boots, scarlet jacket, and forage cap set at a jaunty angle.

"'Lo, Uncle Sam," he said, saluting gayly.

"'Lo, Johnnie Canuck. Where you been for a year and heaven knows how
many months?"

"Up Peace River, after Pierre Poulette, fellow who killed Buckskin
Jerry."

Tom took in Beresford's lean body, a gauntness of the boyish face,
hollows under the eyes that had not been there when first they had
met. There had come to him whispers of the long trek into the frozen
Lone Lands made by the officer and his Indian guide. He could guess
the dark and dismal winter spent by the two alone, without books,
without the comforts of life, far from any other human being. It must
have been an experience to try the soul. But it had not shaken the
Canadian's blithe joy in living.

"Get him?" the Montanan asked.

The answer he could guess. The North-West Mounted always brought
back those they were sent for. Already the Force was building up the
tradition that made them for a generation rulers of half a continent.

"Got him." Thus briefly the red-coat dismissed an experience that
had taken toll of his vitality greater than five years of civilized
existence. The soil along the coast is very fertile and is particularly
rice, Orseille, indigo, rubber, sugarcane and 3 Soffariden - Sohar.

Coffee out. In the hinterland there is a lot of gold, copper,
iron, and coffee, the inhabitants of the country to bring to the
Ivory Coast.

The Portuguese, who at the end of the 15th Century discovered this
coast, and their colony of Mozambique now heard the same, met Arab,
from the Sultan of Kilwa dependent branches. They submitted this and
the neighboring coffee and gave the new owner Kingdom Algarve. Created
here by their military and commercial stations S. and Inhambane
in particular, the Portuguese in the 16th Trains century after the
gold rich states Mokaranga and kaffir Monomotapa, which are allegedly
powerful and civilized "empires" appeared in the That only barbaric
empires were.

In the hinterland of S. is also the gold mines of Manica and various
1871 by Karl Mauch discovered gold mines and the ruins of Zimbabye
(sd), which is why you're in the 16th Century, the Ophir of Solomon
moved here, a view with more boldness than reasoning in recent times
has been repeated. - The town of S., at the channel of Mozambique
since 1505 in the possession of the Portuguese, is a poor, dilapidated
place, barely 1200 inhabitants (including a few whites) counts, but
the capital of the eponymous district and station for the submarine
cable Durban after Aden.

Soffariden, pers dynasty, s. Saffariden.

Soffionen (Ital., "bellows"), name of the boric acid Dampfausströmungen
(sd) in Tuscany.

Soffítte (ital), in the architecture, the sub-view of an ornamental
arch, a suspension plate, a beamed ceiling, etc., and a shared or
in fields with Getäfel adorned ceiling, in the theater being suspended
above the stage, the sky or a ceiling decoration depicting pieces.

Sofi (Arabic, Sufi, Ssofi, Ssufi), see Sufism.

Sofia (bulgar.

Sredec), capital of the Principality of Bulgaria, on the railway
from Constantinople to Belgrade and the Bogana (Nebenflüßchen of Isker)
in a magnificent, wide plain between the Balkans and Witosch, 580
m above sea level.

M. situated. S., focus of a great road network, has many mosques
(including the architecturally significant than the now decayed Böjük
Dschami), Christian churches and monasteries, the landmark building
is the large bath at the mosque Baschi Dschamisi, with hot springs.

But many buildings are currently, and the old streets are regulated
and paved.

Newly built a royal palace, a national library, a print shop,
pharmacies, agencies, restaurants, post office, a National Bank with
a capital of 2 million Frank, a scientific association and others
1887 it counted 30,428 inhabitants, including 5000 Jews, 2000 Turks
and 1000 gypsies.

P. has strong export of hides to Austria and France, from corn and
grain.

It is the headquarters of the Bulgarian Government, a Greek
metropolitans, a cassation and a Appellhof and a professional German
Consul. - P. is at the site of ancient Serdica Ulpia in Obermösien
(famous by a council held 344 daselbst) and 1382 fell into the hands
of the Turks.

On 3 Jan. 1878 the city by the Russians under Gurko occupied.

Sofia Expedition, 28 June to 20 Oct. 1868, see Maritime scientific
expeditions.

Sofiero (Sophiero), a royal castle by the sea in Sweden, 6 km from
Helsingborg, summer residence of the royal family.

Sofis (Safis, Sufis), pers dynasty, founded by Ismail, with the epithet
Sofi, reigned from 1505 to 1735 on Persia (sd, p. 873). Sofismus, see
Sufism. Söflingen, a market town in württemberg. Donau Kreis, district
Oberamt Ulm, at the blue line and the Ulm-Sigmaringen Württembergische
the state railway, has a cath . Church, a forestry, mechanical and
Weaving (1885) 2501 inh S. was formerly rich direct Ms.

Abbey, came 1802 to 1810 in Bavaria and Württemberg. Softa (pers.),
in which Turkey is a science of living, the dead world, visitors
to the universities (see Medresse). The Softas now recruit
from the lower classes and have several tests to exist until it is the
statutory title of "Molla" (sd) gain, and then as a clergyman or a
judge to be employed. Most opponents of Europeanization measures,
they have in modern times also lead to political demonstrations
can misguide.

Undertow, SVW wake (sd).

Sogamoso, Boyacá city in the state of South Americans.

Republic of Colombia, on Chicamocha, 2506 m above sea level. M., with
the Hospital, and a lively trade (1870) 9553 S. inhab. Formerly was
the capital of the theocratic government of Sugamuxi, a high priest
of Muisca or Tschibtscha (sd).

Sogdiana, formerly the most northerly until reaching Jaxartes Satrapi
of the Persian Empire, with the capital Marakanda (now Samarkand).

Sögel village in Preuß. Government district of Osnabrück, Kreis
Lingen, on Hümmling with cath. Church, and court (1885) 1100 East
inhab. the ducal Arenberg Jagdschloßgasse Klemens Werth.

Soggen, see Salt, p. 238 Soghum Kala, city, see Kale Suchum. Soglio (Lang
ssolljo), Sils s. 3). Sognefjorden, incisive deep fjord on the west
coast of Norway, about 200 km long, ends in a fjord site, which
carries the name Lysterfjord is hardly anywhere 7 km wide and almost
everywhere by high, steep cliffs surrounded.

The landscape which surrounds the S., is the mountainous Bailiwick Sogn
and one of the wildest areas of the country. The main side fjords
fjord outgoing distinguish themselves by their huge environments.
Thus, the southern branches of the Aurland and Näröfjord, surrounded
by mountains, which extends from the lake from 1600-2000 m vertical
rise.

In N. S. sends except the Lysterfjord also Sogndalsfjord and
Fjärlandsfjord, of which the latter up to the glaciers of Jostedalsbrä
hineindringt which up to 65 m above sea level. M. descend. This
huge mass of snow, with their glaciers adjacent Thäler met, limits
the fjord in the N., while it in the O. large, the Jotunfjelden
(sd) amount of mountain masses of the adjacent areas distinguished
only in the south, a single pass through the great Närödal, the
continuation of the Näröfjords.

Sohair (Zuhair), the famous Arab. Vormohammedanischen poet of the time.
His "Moallaka" is separately published by Rosenmüller ( "Analecta
arabica", Part 2, Leipz. 1826), translated by Rückert (Hamasa "I,
adding 1 to No. 149), his poems preserved in s.

Ahlwardt in the "Six ancient poets' (Lond. 1870). See Kaab Ibn
Sohair.

Sohar ( "splendor", also p. hakadosch, St.

S.), which is incorrect in Aramaic in the form of 1 * 4 Sohar - Soiron.
One Pentateuchkommentars drafted masterpiece of Kabbalah (sd),
which for centuries almost deified, but confused by its mixing of
Neoplatonist, Gnostic, Aristotelian and Judeo-allegorical views the
development of Judaism is very damaged.

Author or editor of S. is probably in the second half of the 13th
Century in different Spanish cities live Schemtob ben Moses de Leon
and Simon ben Jochai (middle of the 2nd century AD).

S., at various points, a hostility against the Talmud is to recognize
and occasionally toying with Christianity, consists of three main
parts: 1) the actual pages, 2) the faithful shepherds (Raja mehemna)
and 3) the Secret Midrash (Midrash Neelam).

See Tholuck, Important parts of the rabbinical book S. (Berl. 1824);
Joël, The Philosophy of Religion S. (Leipz. 1849), Jellinek, Moses
ben Schem-Tob de Leon and his relationship to the S. (das 1851) .
Sohar port city in the Arab. Landscape of Oman, with good roads, a
permanent lock, carefully cultivated area and about 24,000 inhabitants
(including a number of Jews with own synagogue).

Industry, weaving, metal work bloom. Sohl (Zólyom Hungarian),
Hungarian county on the left bank of the Danube, bordering the
counties Liptov, Gömör, Neográd, Hont, bars and Thúrócz is 2730 sq
km (49.7 QM) in size, very of mountains covered by Granfluß through
whose Thal particularly fertile, and has numerous mountain pastures.

The inhabitants (1881: 102,500, mostly Slovaks) operated cattle and
sheep, some wine, lively mining sulfur, silver, copper, iron,
vitriol, and mercury as well as production of iron and pottery,
cloth, glass, paper, etc. the seat of the county, which takes its
name from the Altsohl in ruins picturesquely situated at the mouth
pp Szlatina in the Gran received is Neusohl.

Sohland, sächs. village in the district and the main official team
Bautzen, on the Spree and the line-Zittau Bischofswerda the Saxon
State Railways, has an Evangelical Church, hand and Mechan.

Weaving, sawing and Mahlmühlen and (1885) 5126 inhab. soles (Sool),
fish, see Plaice.

Sohlenbau, SVW Strossenbau, s. mining, 724th sole goers,
mammals, with the entire sole occur, as the Bears ( s. mammals,
345). insole sewing machine, shoe s.. Söhlig in mining SVW
horizontally.

See the sites of the layers.

Son, each person of the male sex in relation to their own producers
(father and mother).

Relatives pp. Son, 1) Karl Ferdinand, painter, born 10th Dec 1805 at
Berlin, received Schadow, which he followed in 1826 to Düsseldorf, the
first lessons in the art and treated initially with fondness antique
fabrics, then scenes from newer poets such as Tasso, Goethe, etc.

His main works, which it in the 30s and 40s a great popularity in
revenue, are: Rinaldo and Armida, which Lautenschlägerin and the Rape
of Hylas (both in the National Gallery, Berlin), Diana and Aktäon,
the Court of Paris, Romeo and Julie the two Leonor, the sisters,
the four seasons, and representations of Lurlei sentimental and
romantic situations.

S. Champion was in the treatment of Karnation and in the portrayal
of female characters. Especially, he was awarded the female portrait.
It was 1832 teacher at the Düsseldorf Academy, and died 25th Nov.
1867 during a visit to Cologne.

As a teacher, he has a big influence on the evolution of the
Düsseldorf school practiced. - His two sons, Richard S.

(b. 1834) and Charles S. (b. 1845) have proved to be a portrait and
genre painter beneficial publicity. 2) William, painter, nephew
of the former, born in 1830 in Berlin, was 1847 to Dusseldorf and
received by Karl P. his education, he added through travel.

Initially, he painted historical pictures, such as Christ on stormy
seas (1853, urban gallery in Dusseldorf, Christ on the Mount of
Olives (1855, in the peace church Jauer Silesia), Genoveva (1856),
but soon he turned to genre painting.

His different lifestyles, belief question (1864, Gallery of Karlsruhe),
especially the consultation with a lawyer (1866, Museum in Leipzig)
is masterful in the pattern, in the drawing and the color effect.

As a result of the waves with which these paintings made, he received
the contract for the Prussian National Gallery a big picture, the
celebration of the Lord's Protestant ancient patrician family, to
paint, which still employs him.

S. 1874 was teacher of painting at the Düsseldorf Academy. Since
that time he has created little more fruitful, but as a teacher
knitted.

Soho, suburb of Birmingham (sd), with the famous, established by Watt
steam car factory. Sohrau, a town in Preuß.

Opole district government, district of Rybnik, Ruda at the origin
and the line Orzesche-S. the Prussian State Railways, 283 m . M., has
a Protestant and a Catholic. church, a synagogue, a local court,
iron foundry and hardware fabrication, and Wollweberei Lein, a steam
and 3 water mills, and brick (1885) with the Garrison (1 Eskadron
Ulan No. 2 ) 4450 mostly Catholic. residents.

Söhre, forested mountains in Preuß. Kassel district government, the
right of the Fulda, southeast of Kassel, is composed of red sandstone
and set in the mountain reached 482 m height.

Soi-disant (French, spr. ssoa-disang) , so called. Soignies (Lang
ssoanjih), capital of an arrondissement in the province of Hainaut
Belg., on the Senne and the railway Brussels-Quiévrain (with fork
for Houdeng-Goegnies), has several churches (including the Romanesque
Vincentiuskirche of the 12th century) and monasteries, a city hall
in the Spanish style, a higher boys' school, industrial school, a
spiritual seminar, twine and Fabrication (1887) 8683 inhab. here
July 10, 1794 victorious battle of the French against the Dutch.

Soirée (French, spr. ssóareh), dinner, dinner party, p. dansante,
dinner party with dancing. Soiron (Lang ssoaróng), Alexander von,
bad. politician, born 2 Aug. 1806 to Mannheim, Heidelberg and studied
in Bonn, has been devoted to 1832 The advokatorischen practice only
at Heidelberg, then to Mannheim, and was 1834 daselbst Oberhof court
advocate. since 1845 Member of the Second Chamber of Baden, gave
it to the liberal opposition in 1848 and participated in preparing
for the vocation of Vorparlaments regen share.

He was also elected in the Fünfzigerausschuß and led the chair in it.

In the National Assembly for some time, he was First Vice-President
and Chairman of the Constitutional Committee.

He handled his position with energy and prudence, and thus attracted
the hatred Level 5 Soissons - soya. to the left.

S. was a diligent and efficient speakers workers. Also at the Erfurt
Parliament, he took part.

He died May 6, 1855 in Heidelberg. Soissons stage (Lang ssoa), s. tertiary
formation. Soissons (Lang ssoassóng), Arrondissementshauptstadt in the
French department of Aisne, in the Aisne and the the north (with the
turnoff to Compiègne and Reims), with detached forts surrounded fortress
second class, has several Gallo-Roman ruins and important architectural
monuments from the Middle Ages, like the beautiful Cathedral (12-13
century), the Church of St. -- Léger, the collegiate church of St.

-Pierre, the remains of the 1076-founded abbey of St. Jean des Vignes,
including the city hall has a p. civil and commercial tribunal, a
college, large and small seminar, an art school, a library with 30,000
volumes , an ancient museum, a deaf and Institute (1886) 11850 inhab.
what little industry and high level of trade in agricultural
products are driving.

It is the bishop's seat. - In ancient times was called the city
Noviodunum, later Augusta Suessionum (of which the present name) and
was the capital of the Belgian Suessiones in Gaul.

In S. Palatium was a Roman emperor, and it was the last city, which
the Romans did in Gaul .

Aetius and Syagrius resided daselbst, and the latter was 486 of Clovis,
near the city. In the Merovingian period, it was almost always a
partial residence empire and was later also of importance. 744 Here
was an important synod Neustrien the survey and 751 Pepin the king
has taken place here was Louis the Pious 833 Kirchenbuße thun.

Since 9 Century seat owners Counts, P. went through purchase and
marriage in different hands and fell over 1734 to the French crown.
As a major hub and lock Heerstraße point P.

Nordbahn played in the struggles of 1814 and 1815 and 1870 a major
role, 15 Oct. grew it this year after three bombardment by the Grand
Duke of Mecklenburg-Schwerin made. The history of this siege described
gardener (Berl. 1874) and H. Müller (das 1875).

Soissons (ssoassóng Lang), 1) Charles of Bourbon, Count of, son of
Prince Ludwig I of Condé (sd) from its second marriage with Françoise
of Orléans-Longueville, by which the county of S. to the house Bourbon
Condé was born in 1566, stood in the Huguenot wars soon on the
side of the yard, and soon on the part of King Henry of Navarre,
joined in 1588 this, it made him at the Battle of useful services
Coutras and died 1st Nov. 1612th 2) Louis de Bourbon, Count of, son
of the last, born 11th May 1604 at Paris, followed his father as
Grand-Maître and governor of Dauphiné.

Already in the 16th Year, the queen-mother Maria de Medici to
her son Louis XIII. While at the same time to be feared that with
the Huguenots unterhandelte.

When these distrustful of him is assigned, he returned to the king's
party and escorted them in the campaign of 1622 against the
Protestants.

The discovery of the conspiracy against Richelieu, where he participated
in had been compromised, he fled to Italy, Louis XIII. but called
him back and instructed him with the siege of La Rochelle.

P. 1630, bought the county of S.

Prince of Condé, escorted the king once again to Italy and then
received the Government of Champagne and La Brie.

In the campaign of 1636 he commanded a small corps of the Aisne and
the Oise, but was by the Spaniards to retreat after Noyon forced.

A new, once again foiled attack on the murder Richelieus P. coerced
to flee after Sedan, where he worked with the Duke of Bouillon, the
Duke of Guise and the Spaniards to the war against the ministerial
association.

A royal army under Marshal Châtillon was July 6, 1641 at Marfée
near Sedan beaten, P. but in battle shot.

With him went out the side of the house p. Bourbon Condé, possession
and title went to the second son of his sister Maria, who is with
the 1625 Prince of Savoy Thomas Franz-Carignan had married. 3)
Eugène Maurice of Savoy, Count of , son of Prince Thomas of Savoy,
Franz-Carignan, nephew of the former, born in 1635 at Chambéry,
dedicated to the youth in the spiritual state, but was later war
service and married 1657 Olympic Mancini (Mancini s. 1), the niece
of the minister Mazarin, who him to the Supreme General of the Swiss
and the appointed Governor of Champagne. 1667 he lived with the
campaign in Flanders, and by 1672 he was Louis XIV promoted to
Lieutenant-General, in which capacity he was in Holland and the
Rhine excelled.

He died 7th June 1673. His younger son was the famous Prince Eugene (sd)
of Savoy, the elder, Louis Thomas, continued the line of Savoy-S.
continue with his grandsons died 1734.

Savi soya (soybean), genus of the family Papilionaceen, with the
single species P. hispida Moench, a one year, in Japan, South India
and the Moluccas native plant.

It has a up to 1 m high, upright, somewhat winding stem, langgestielte,
dreizählige leaves that look like stalks and branches are densely
red-brown hairy, kurzgestielte Blütenträubchen with small,
inconspicuous, pale violet flowers and crescent, trockenhäutige,
reddish hairy, two-up fünfsamige between spongy varied the seed pods.

Man the soybean cultivated in many varieties and in very wide spread
in Asia. It goes with their northern border dissemination nor the corn
out, has great adaptability to soil and climatic conditions, total
immunity against parasitic fungi and never failing fertility.

The early maturing varieties in Central Europe according to many more
years of cultivation experiments very satisfactory results. The
seeds are rounded, elongated or kidney-shaped, yellowish, brown,
greenish or black, never spotted and they contain about 7 percent
body water 38 protein, fat 17-20, 24-28 nitrogen-free substances,
5 percent crude fiber and 4.5

With the exception of Morse, they had all taken Indian wives, in
the loose marriage of the country, and for both business and family
reasons they maintained a close relationship with the natives. Most of
their children used the mother tongue, though they could make shift
to express themselves in English. In this respect as in others the
younger McRaes were superior. They talked English well. They could
read and write. Their father had instilled in them a reverence for the
Scriptures and some knowledge of both the Old and New Testaments. It
was his habit to hold family prayers every evening. Usually half
a dozen guests were present at these services in addition to his
immediate household.

With the Indians came their dogs, wolfish creatures, prick-eared and
sharp-muzzled, with straight, bristling hair. It was twenty below
zero, but the gaunt animals neither sought nor were given shelter.
They roamed about in front of the fort stockade, snapping at each
other or galloping off on rabbit hunts through the timber.

The custom was that on this day the braves of the tribe kissed every
woman they met in token of friendship and good-will. To fail of
saluting one, young or old, was a breach of good manners. Since
daybreak they had been marching in to Angus McRae's house and gravely
kissing his wife and daughter.

Jessie did not like it. She was a fastidious young person. But she
could not escape without mortally offending the solemn-eyed warriors
who offered this evidence of their esteem. As much as possible she
contrived to be busy upstairs, but at least a dozen times she was
fairly cornered and made the best of it.

At dinner she and the other women of the fort waited on their guests
and watched prodigious quantities of food disappear rapidly. When the
meal was ended, the dancing began. The Crees shuffled around in a
circle, hopping from one foot to the other in time to the beating of
a skin drum. The half-breeds and whites danced the jigs and reels the
former had brought with them from the Red River country. They took the
floor in couples. The men did double-shuffles and cut pigeon wings,
moving faster and faster as the fiddler quickened the tune till they
gave up at last exhausted. Their partners performed as vigorously, the
moccasined feet twinkling in and out so fast that the beads flashed.

Because it was the largest building in the place, the dance was held
in the C.N. Morse & Company store. From behind the counter Jessie
applauded the performers. She did not care to take part herself. The
years she had spent at school had given her a certain dignity.

A flash of scarlet caught her eye. Two troopers of the Mounted
Police had come into the room and one of them was taking off his fur
overcoat. The trim, lean-flanked figure and close-cropped, curly head
she recognized at once with quickened pulse. When Winthrop Beresford
came into her neighborhood, Jessie McRae's cheek always flew a flag of
greeting.

A squaw came up to the young soldier and offered innocently her face
for a kiss.

Beresford knew the tribal custom. It was his business to help
establish friendly relations between the Mounted and the natives. He
kissed the wrinkled cheek gallantly. A second dusky lady shuffled
forward, and after her a third. The constable did his duty.

His roving eye caught Jessie's, and found an imp of mischief dancing
there. She was enjoying the predicament in which he found himself. Out
of the tail of that same eye he discovered that two more flat-footed
squaws were headed in his direction.

He moved briskly across the floor to the counter, vaulted it, and
stood beside Jessie. She was still laughing at him.

"You're afraid," she challenged. "You ran away."

A little devil of adventurous mirth was blown to flame in him. "I saw
another lady, lonely and unkissed. The Force answers every call of
distress."

Her chin tilted ever so little as she answered swiftly.

  "He who will not when he may,
  When he will he shall have nay."

Before she had more than time to guess that he would really dare, the
officer leaned forward and kissed the girl's dusky cheek.

The color flamed into it. Jessie flung a quick, startled look at him.

"Kissing Day, Sleeping Dawn," he said, smiling.

Instantly she followed his lead. "Sleeping Dawn hopes that the Great
Spirit will give to the soldier of the Great Mother across the seas
many happy kissing days in his life."

"And to you. Will you dance with me?"

"Not to-day, thank you. I don't jig in public."

"I was speaking to Miss McRae and not to Sleeping Dawn, and I was
asking her to waltz with me."

She accepted him as a partner and they took the floor. The other
dancers by tacit consent stepped back to watch this new step, so
rhythmic, light, and graceful. It shocked a little their sense of
fitness that the man's arm should enfold the maiden, but they were
full of lively curiosity to see how the dance was done.

A novel excitement pulsed through the girl's veins. It was not the
kiss alone, though that had something to do with the exhilaration that
flooded her. Formally his kiss had meant only a recognition of
the day. Actually it had held for both of them a more personal
significance, the swift outreach of youth to youth. But the dance was
an escape. She had learned at Winnipeg the waltz of the white race.
No other girl at Faraway knew the step. She chose to think that the
constable had asked her because this stressed the predominance of her
father's blood in her. It was a symbol to all present that the ways of
the Anglo-Saxon were her ways.

She had the light, straight figure, the sense of rhythm, the
instinctively instant response of the born waltzer. As she glided over
the floor in the arms of Beresford, the girl knew pure happiness. Not
till he was leading her back to the counter did she wake from the
spell the music and motion had woven over her.

A pair of cold eyes in a white, bloodless face watched her beneath
thin black brows. A shock ran through her, as though she had been
drenched with icy water. She shivered. There was a sinister menace in
that steady, level gaze. More than once she had felt it. Deep in her
heart she knew, from the world-old experience of her sex, that the man
desired her, that he was biding his time with the patience and the
ruthlessness of a panther. "Poker" Whaley had in him a power of
dangerous evil notable in a country where bad men were not scarce.

The officer whispered news to Jessie. "Bully West broke jail two weeks
ago. He killed a guard. We're here looking for him."

"He hasn't been here. At least I haven't heard it," she answered
hurriedly.

For Whaley, in his slow, feline fashion, was moving toward them.

Bluntly the gambler claimed his right. "Ooche-me-gou-kesigow," he
said.

The girl shook her head. "Are you a Cree, Mr. Whaley?"

For that he had an answer. "Is Beresford?"

"Mr. Beresford is a stranger. He didn't know the custom--that it
doesn't apply to me except with Indians. I was taken by surprise."

Whaley was a man of parts. He had been educated for a priest, but had
kicked over the traces. There was in him too much of the Lucifer for
the narrow trail the father of a parish must follow.

He bowed. "Then I must content myself with a dance."

Jessie hesitated. It was known that he was a libertine. The devotion
of his young Cree wife was repaid with sneers and the whiplash. But he
was an ill man to make an enemy of. For her family's sake rather than
her own she yielded reluctantly.

Though a heavy-set man, he was an excellent waltzer. He moved evenly
and powerfully. But in the girl's heart resentment flamed. She knew he
was holding her too close to him, taking advantage of her modesty in a
way she could not escape without public protest.

"I'm faint," she told him after they had danced a few minutes.

"Oh, you'll be all right," he said, still swinging her to the music.

She stopped. "No, I've had enough." Jessie had caught sight of her
brother Fergus at the other end of the room. She joined him. Tom Morse
was standing by his side.

Whaley nodded indifferently toward the men and smiled at Jessie, but
that cold lip smile showed neither warmth nor friendliness. "We'll
dance again--many times," he said.

The girl's eyes flashed. "We'll have to ask Mrs. Whaley about that. I
don't see her here to-night. I hope she's quite well."

It was impossible to tell from the chill, expressionless face of the
squaw-man whether her barb had stung or not. "She's where she belongs,
at home in the kitchen. It's her business to be well. I reckon she is.
I don't ask her."

"You're not a demonstrative husband, then?"

"Husband!" He shrugged his shoulders insolently. "Oh, well! What's in
a name?"

She knew the convenient code of his kind. They took to themselves
Indian wives, with or without some form of marriage ceremony, and
flung them aside when they grew tired of the tie or found it galling.
There was another kind of squaw-man, the type represented by her
father. He had joined his life to that of Matapi-Koma for better or
worse until such time as death should separate them.

In Jessie's bosom a generous indignation burned. There was a reason
why just now Whaley should give his wife much care and affection.
She turned her shoulder and began to talk with Fergus and Tom Morse,
definitely excluding the gambler from the conversation.

He was not one to be embarrassed by a snub. He held his ground,
narrowed eyes watching her with the vigilant patience of the panther
he sometimes made her think of. Presently he forced a reëntry.

"What's this I hear about Bully West escaping from jail?"

Fergus answered. "Two-three weeks ago. Killed a guard, they say. He
was headin' west an' north last word they had of him."

All of them were thinking the same thing, that the man would reach
Faraway if he could, lie hidden till he had rustled an outfit, then
strike out with a dog team deeper into the Lone Lands.

"Here's wishin' him luck," his partner said coolly.

"All the luck he deserves," amended Morse quietly.

"You can't keep a good man down," Whaley boasted, looking straight at
the other Indian trader. "I wouldn't wonder but what he'll pay a few
debts when he gets here."

Tom smiled and offered another suggestion. "If he gets here and has
time. He'll have to hurry."

His gaze shifted across the room to Beresford, alert, gay,
indomitable, and as implacable as fate.


CHAPTER XVI

A BUSINESS DEAL


It was thirty below zero. The packed snow crunched under the feet of
Morse as he moved down what served Faraway for a main street. The
clock in the store registered mid-afternoon, but within a few minutes
the sub-Arctic sun would set, night would fall, and aurora lights
would glow in the west.

Meanwhile Wilms phased in dull despair in the yard back and forth. And
again and again directed überbuschten his eyes on the window behind
which his former wife had lain ill and his anguish prepared. Now he
peered after the healthy sister. He grabbed his forehead and wondered.
Under him lay still and the earth quaked not, he swam through the
snow reflects the sky and no fire ball out around him the house and
barns stood rigid as usual and yet brooded the man who no longer
wanted to go to church, one of the deadly sins to.

"sins of thought," the pastor had once said, "sins of thought." It
should get worse. The little Hofjunge came up to him and handed
him a letter from. It contained an invitation for this evening to Förster
family. The Försterin had him with delicate manuscript written. Wilms
As lunch time came into the living room, he found his young sister on
Nähtisch busy busy with a letter. "To whom you write, Heting?" He
asked timidly. She looked turbid with smile to him. »On Else," she
replied faltering. Stutzte lessee. "To my wife?" He repeated and
looked darkly at the ground. "Yes, I ask them when they return."
They lowered while the head, wrote a few lines and handed Wilms then
closed the letter to procure. An oppressive There was a silence,
as she always was now when the remote between the two mentioned
happened. "When she comes back," said the disheartened husbandman.
He reckte itself. »Are you afraid for her, Heting?" It should sound
indifferent, but his deep voice trembled slightly. Quavery turned to
the girl and did not reply. "Just talk of something else," thought
Wilms, "of something else." Since He said the invitation, which he just
received. Hedwig would of course refuse to believe it, so striking
was its pallor, and she had just about her being sued.

But to his surprise, she called excited: "Yes, we want out. Wait, I like
to dress me. "Kopfschüttelnd he stayed back.

Even after the coffee they drove from the farm down in the same slides,
the Hedwig had used this morning.

Now Tom had come only because a matter of business had
to be settled one way or the other at once.

"Blandoine is leavin' for Whoop-Up in the mornin'. I came to see your
father about those robes. If we buy, it'll have to be now. I can send
'em down with Blandoine," he explained.

She nodded, briskly. "Father said you could have them at your price if
you'll pay what he asked for those not split. They're good hides--cows
and young bulls."[5]

[Footnote 5: A split robe was one cut down the middle and sewn
together with sinews. The ones skinned from the animal in a single
piece were much more valuable, but the native women usually prepared
the hides the other way because of the weight in handling. One of the
reasons the Indians gave the missionaries in favor of polygamy was
that one wife could not dress a buffalo robe without assistance. The
braves themselves did not condescend to menial labor of this kind.
(W.M.R.)]

"It's a deal," the fur-trader said promptly. "Glad to get 'em, though
I'm payin' all I can afford for the split ones."

"I'll get the key to the storehouse," Jessie said.

She walked out of the room with the springy, feather-footed step that
distinguished her among all the women that he knew. In a few moments
she was back. Instead of giving him the key, she put it down on the
table near his hand.

Beneath the tan the dark blood beat into his face. He knew she had
done this in order not to run the risk of touching him.

For a long moment his gaze gripped and held her. Between them passed
speech without words. His eyes asked if he were outside the pale
completely, if he could never wipe out the memory of that first cruel
meeting. Hers answered proudly that, half-breed though she was, he was
to her only a wolfer, of less interest than Black, the leader of her
father's dog train.

He picked up the key and left, wild thoughts whirling through his
mind. He loved her. Of what use was it trying longer to disguise it
from himself. Of the inferior blood she might be, yet his whole being
went out to her in deep desire. He wanted her for his mate. He craved
her in every fiber of his clean, passionate manhood, as he had never
before longed for a woman in his life. And she hated him--hated him
with all the blazing scorn of a young proud soul whose fine body had
endured degradation on his account. He was a leper, to be classed with
Bully West.

Nor did he blame her. How could she feel otherwise and hold her
self-respect. The irony of it brought a bitter smile to his lips. If
she only knew it, the years would avenge her a hundredfold. For he had
cut himself off from even the chance of the joy that might have been
his.

In the sky an aurora flashed with scintillating splendor. The heavens
were aglow with ever-changing bars and columns of colored fire.

Morse did not know it. Not till he had passed a dozen steps beyond a
man in heavy furs did his mind register recognition of him as Whaley.
He did not even wonder what business was taking the gambler toward
Angus McRae's house.

Business obtruded its claims. He arranged with Blandoine to take
the robes out with him and walked back to the McRae storehouse. It
adjoined the large log cabin where the Scotchman and his family lived.

Blandoine and he went over the robes carefully in order that there
should be no mistake as to which ones the trainmaster took. This done,
Morse locked the door and handed the key to his companion.

To him there was borne the sound of voices--one low and deep, the
other swift and high. He caught no words, but he became aware that a
queer excitement tingled through his veins. At the roots of his hair
there was an odd, prickling sensation. He could give himself no
reason, but some instinct of danger rang in him like a bell. The snow
outside was always tight and lay down like a white wall around the
farm. Thus, it was again so quiet and lonely as ever.

A day after another verfloß.

In agriculture, there was now nothing more to work. Silently the
tenant often sat for hours at the window, looked over the snow-covered
yard and waited for him if not the country postman a sign of life from
the two women would bring. But none of the above happened.

And gradually, he lapsed back into his gloomy Hinbrüten; the great man
kurzgeschorenen with blonde hair then spent hours in the whole room.
He wandered up and down, saw it on the stock cleanly covered his
sick wife or took her Bible in hand, staring into indifference,
while he was in the liking of her prayers reminded used.

Then he began some of the verses and shook nachzusprechen sometimes
suddenly, as if it overflowed a little disgusting. Often, he
took a picture of the dresser mirror, the Else represented as a
bride to make it long and carefully considered.

As her blond braids then advanced around the main ring. - How close
to that time been Hedwig!

Quickly he put on such an opportunity again to photograph the place
and ran to the courtyard, where he was scolded by his people and
at odds.

They were surprised at the Lord. Thus, it is rarely seen. And still
reached the desired message is not to. Now, finally, one morning, -
Wilms still sat over a coffee - as the deaf Krischan crept into
the room, squinted at his master and put a letter in silence on the
table.

Wilms knocked the heart. With trembling fingers he vomited the
letter after the old man had removed, but it was only a printed form
that is an invitation to a rural assembly contained the older
fallow Graf joke einberief. Wilms carelessly threw the shreds on the
ground and sighed deeply on. He is not interested in politics. "Yeah,"
said the forester, the afternoon appearance in passing by the circular
said. »The Count wants to yes in the Reichstag can choose.

This is a club founded. To raising the standard of morality in the
country. Well, old friend, so it should be with us even sent doll. -
The damned woman - you have not already noticed, Wilms?

Few times has been one for the wage taken into Hofarbeit - pardauz it
must be re-fired. - Is there something going on with as its person. -
Ne - the morality - the Deuwel knows - you may be in women's rooms
do not trust. "He herbaceous behind the ears. "There is so well
recently with what is alleged to be married, - wait times - it was
even 'ne nobles near here. But do not laugh at me, I could not be
credible because spouses' ne wickedness too great a portion of
which includes - Deuwel Pfui, I can just tell.

"Wilms looked at the good-natured giant to rigidly. His lips moved, but
he said not a word. "Well good morning, Wilms, how's your wife?"
"Better." "And your sister?" Wilms did not: "What I know nothing."
"Well, because Adieu! "" Adieu also Eltz.

"But still a long while he was on his economic calculations and wrote
books, sounds were coming from his ears:" When husband and wife is a
great wickedness to it. "The sweat drips on his forehead. The numbers
in front of him began to dance. - If only he could find strength
to oppose the bad ideas to fight back. But since nagte and bit
again such malicious imagination. "When spouses" stated - Yes, but
he was actually married? Because he had a woman? - - - Or did God
the Almighty is not a separating wall between them erect?

"Only it is not," he moaned, "just do not understand. Only not this
horrible, desperate accusations. "And he buried itself anew in his
papers and worked until the lamp to be quenched threatened. * * * * *
The next day he received again by a similar circular. At the same
time seemed to him the inspector Grothe from Boltenhagen, a tall, broad
man, the Count of Hauptgut cultivated fallow joke.

It should be the tenant nor particularly inviting to the meeting.
"No, I do not come," Wilms said, while the inspector in the large
office abschüttelte the snow, and the emissary räusperte satisfied,
and said: 'Since you have right. "" Well, why, Mr. Grothe, but it is
actually a good purpose. "" Fine good purpose, "growled the other,
he twisted his mouth," morality - there is the count you first to his
son care.

But since all the prostitute on the court made uncertain
that it is a shame, and then so'n association will be. "As soon as the
tenant the name of the young fallow joke heard, he rose slowly,
the blood in the temples, so that he the other barely hide his
movement could.

"Do you, Grothe," he cut short as, "I hear what is not so happy." "I -
I say yes and nothing against the young man - is actually a very nice,
kind man. And it is' not true stupidity of the elderly, the boy that
he's not in the military left.

Here in the economy, of course, understands nothing, and knows
nothing - and expires on loud silly. - The woman can Förster it did
not get rid of, "he added quietly," but it should be duly him
recently have shown the door.

"Wilms could no longer listen."

Mr. Grothe - I have now - I have what still needed to be done - the
Lord faithfully, you count, and - yes, I werd 'wanted to come. ""
Okay, "goodbye to the inspector. "Think of your dear good wife?" "Yes,
I thank you." They shook their hands, and the emissary of the Count
rode slowly down by the Court. * * * * * But the visit had its
consequence.

In the long period in of Wilms schneeverwehten the grange felt so lonely
and with all its nostalgic thoughts of the distant Hedwig was
because he had forgotten everything, what he believed to know her
because she was to him as the pure, austere high Jungfrau appeared
unattainable.

Now, as his wild stories and bustle of the Junkers, as the horrid doubt
raised their heads again, as he again woke up to reality, a strong
feeling of contempt against itself stirred in him, and with all the
power he looked ugly burgeoning slope off.

Ten of the day now he read the few lines which are already weekly
Else he could write, then drove with his rough hand tenderly on the
paper, and put it into the package in which the letters from the
bride and time saved. »My Elsing - they will soon be completely
healthy - and then we will be with God's help once again happy -
oh so happy, as then, eh 'began the difficult time."

He sighed.

"If they do only because wär." * * * * * More and more of the
advancing winter. It was much on Christmas. Wilms remarked that his
people little gifts for their families under consideration.

The moving his heart. Again he had to think about his distant
wife.

"Shall I also for the Lord 'ne schöne Tann' putzen?"

Asked the Obermagd. It sounded like compassion from those few words, as
they looked at the lonely man. Wilms thanked. "Ne , let you Dörthe -
for me alone. - It has no purpose.

"But the afternoon he tense up the sled and drove to the city.

He wanted to buy something else, his low, slow sound of the woman a
joy to prepare.

About the snowy, dark road, he finally rang in Grimmen and chose
the only jeweler in the town a little golden heart on a thin chain.

He was there when his name is "Wilms" in the gold eingrub. The poetry
of simple natures, he wanted to show so that his whole heart forever
belong to his wife.

In the inn, where his sledge he had, he sat still for a while with
a glass of grog and chatted with the landlord in the dark smoky
brown Gaststube.

The tenants learned that his father, the old Rendant Schroeder, nor
the nightly notables office visit ». Hedwig is still not back?" asked
the man casually country.

The innkeeper with the green Sammetmützchen denied. Since Wilms paid
and broke. It was dark and cold on the way home. The wind is sharply
pointed on the sledge and threw open the country Eisnadeln spitze
man's face. A yearning for a warm, cozy bar beschlich him where a
bright fire was burning, and a lovely female hand the occurrence
of the thick fur snow fell.

The air was always cutting. Hochoben flickered a couple of frosty
stars. Wilms froze.

Sometimes he was able to individual free-standing houses in which
they vorbeiflogen into the murky taverns enlightened look.

Since we already saw Christmas trees, which were decorated.

In Hauptgut Boltenhagen church bells sounded through the night. Hohl
and solemnly they were ringing the party. Harbingers of great joy.

Wilms seized involuntarily to the breast pocket in which the packet
with a heart of gold was hidden, and his coachman to drive faster.

Verklangen The bell sounds again snow, darkness, and white field road
- half a halt before the wet and cold reached humans and livestock
in the last Pachtgut Wilmshus and drove into the solitary, by thick
snow wall surrounding the courtyard.

Rings everything was shrouded in darkness. Just behind the herabgelassenen
Rouleaux the large desk light shone.

"Hübsch of Dörthe," thought Wilms, while across the corridor in stages,
"the Dirn has pity on me." He opened indifferent, winced and remained
rigid and large in the post stand.

II sealing Hedwig stood before him in her simple black dress and
stretched him with joyful warmth of the hand.

An attractive smile plays around with her face flourishing. "Well,
brother," tease it slightly, "the new host will not do you like?"
In the oven burned a fire flickering in the bright bar durchwärmten
spent a charming, lovely creature, ready to take the big man of his
heavy fur to liberate, it was everything as he had thought of it.

But the clumsy man choked it first, as if by an invisible hand would
be compressed his throat. - Semi-religious ideas durchflogen him
as he cared for them as a boy, or else had.

She was there. The temptation was there again.

All the fear that he her in the long time endured, crashed in his
memory, and converted his Gegengruß when he finally aufraffte to
an unintelligible murmur.

"Hedwig - - welcome - you -" Then he noticed that he is still the
entgegenhielt hand, and pressed it between his fingers clumsy.

"O - "they made the painful mouth. From his fur troff the ice water
on her dress. He apologized and was embarrassed when it was helpful
when undressing. The table was white cover, a hot toddy steamed already,
everything was for a delicious supper prepared. Even the napkins
were laid in graceful folds.

One could note that this time a woman of good education to the table
was concerned.

Mustered perplexed Wilms these agencies. It came as a surprise to him,
he could not do so in the new state can be found. He finally urged
ungelenk the guest on the sofa and sat down the girl on a chair
opposite. Smiling about his embarrassment Hedwig wanted him to present
some food, but suddenly he felt her hand already raised impetuous
and began to ask: "Not yet -- not yet - and above all, how are my
wife?

"The girl nodded encouraging:" Good - even surprising - so good that you
know in eight days, will arrive here. "" What?

Thank God, "Wilms murmured. »Can they even go?" "Yes, still based
on a stick, but it gets better with each passing day." "And you,
Hedwig?" He paused, and saw it again not understanding that, in a
merry laughter broke out. "You want to ask what I was actually here
when you want?"

she began at last. "Yes, - that is - -" "Can you really do not think?
What are you men but cumbersome. - I said - I should tidy up the
Bottom to Top return, so that everything else fine clean finds.

Not true, brother, you do not like it? "" Me? Why? "" Because you're
such a morose face to do. "" Hold, Hedwig - but you know that
you're always welcome. "" Really?

"He beat the eyes down and began to eat. They sipped on the other hand,
only of everything, and told him incessantly by Else and described
all the details of their stay. The half-Polish city, the prison, the
doctor, the other patients, all facilities, the bathrooms and the
whole thing so sober and understandable that Wilms long knife and
fork was lying to her with a lively tension to listen.

From time to time she poured him the drink pleasantly warm and gracious
smile, her timid when he zutrank. Suddenly came nevertheless anxiety
between the two one. Hedwig had stopped to tell and leaned into the
sofa, as the journey they had probably tired. Wilms also gave a shy
from now to make something indifferent.

He looked quickly to her several times over, then watched the
verglimmende Ofenfeuer, awkward folded the napkin, and looked anew
at the restless young girls out.

They dreamed of him, the head in the hand based on something they
seemed to think Remote.

The tenant was restless. "Hedwig," räusperte he halblaut. "Yes, brother."
emergency was aimed at the girl and pressed both hands fleetingly
against the temples, as they wanted their full attention to the
Asker steer.

"Have you not yet in the city with your father?" No, I drove here
directly. "" emergency here? "repeated Wilms. An embarrassing
resentment grew in him.

What could it only to the people deserted, snowbound farmhouse
looking for?

Hastily, he thought to ask how he looks, but her calm, brown eyes
met, he fell silent again and scratched lay on the table back and
forth.

For a while it remained silent. But it is this quiet gathering Wilms
could not endure. Marterte and somewhat tormented him in bounds.
"Hedwig," he began suddenly overcome with and for the first time
he turned it all over his face to be honest.

"There must be times between us to come. It is too long for me
to the heart. - Why are you - I - my child - I mean, why are you so
good to us?

"" Well? "" Look, Heting, until thou hast thy inheritance a sum borrowed,
and I so I can help. That would have me no one else has done - no, let
- I must say, even my wife, you have maintained, which is only a
few could endure.

And now - now you're back here again, in this solitude, and want us
to help and support and upright, and all I should like, without really
knowing why you're doing everything I can do it to me even not explain
it, yes you are fit to do so was not, you're like a fine, young lady,
why are you so this?

"The last of the big man cried in a fierce, almost unhappy tone.
Instead of a reply rose Hedwig. Your cheeks erblaßten something, but
otherwise immutable nature poured her grave silence from those which
it was peculiarly. Gradually phasing them to oven, and warmed their
hands, then lowered durchmaß several main room, as if they think,
and finally stayed at the table where their finger on the bell of
the lamp set that Wilms saw the blood hindurchrinnen .

Their slender figure stood near his chair, he was able to recognize
Webemuster of their dress. Involuntarily he turned his head continued.
"You see, brother," she stressed after a severe break clear and
need to talk to, always look on their screened Finger addressed:
"I've also done about nachgesonnen why I am so happy to back here
in your loneliness."

"happy?"

she astonished the lessee.

"Yes, I was like," she continued hurriedly, "precisely because it
is so quiet. - I need this silence. - I been abhorred as a child
everything Unruhige and full sound.

But this is not the main reason, "she sinnend added:" I was probably
most of you, brother. "" I am?

"Startled to Wilms.

But it was all so passionless, so consideration and without a trace
of tenderness hingesprochen that the tenants felt that he ought to
have been conceived words wrong. However, the blood was in him until
his eyes closed, he pawed impatiently with their feet and looked
agitated to her.

"Yes, Hedwig, how do you that?" he muttered. They moved slowly away
from the glass back and settled back down on the sofa.

"I said to myself, you're unhappy with our family has become Wilms.
"" That I am not. "" That art thou, brother.

Are you not, like any other man, a marriage entered into in order to
domesticity to possess? - Well, and you found it? - No, everything
you went through a long illness - and even now, brother, - I
must tell you with much pain, believe me - even now you will be my poor
sister, this happiness does not create able. "" Not able to create?
"Wilms echote horrified.

Iciness flowed through him, as earlier, when he sat on the sled. At the
moment, he hated the girl, all of which he so ruthlessly revealing.

"And why not, Hedwig?" He whispered. "Because I am a doctor familiar
with my departure, «Hedwig closed quietly, as if they do not want to
attract even more," that Else is still the extreme must be spared
and that they will never again be a healthy, but only as a patient
may be treated - you poor man .

«A quiet moan broke it." Look, "she finished hastily, by striking the
color changed," and stood there in my notes that I am perhaps the
scope could begin, which my sister will not fill, so you at least
not too much entbehrst, you have suffered so much. "" And since you
wanted to - -?

"he stammered. He grasped it not."

Yes, I long for a quiet, steady employment. "" But -- But wilt thou
not marry? "drove him out. He is ashamed when he said it.

It proposed the eyes down and jerked the armpits, "hardly," she
answered matter.

"I have a daughter of a foolish young officers to the desire for
better education cared for, but -" - she hesitated and was restless
for the first time - "this is probably not for me Heal ausgeschlagen.

And that's why hardly anyone will come, which I liked, and the fits
to me. "" Oh Hedwig, but - but - "contradicted Wilms thoughtless,
-" you're beautiful and smart, it will find itself.

"But while he spoke, he suddenly had to reluctantly remember that the
full, red lips have kissed stormily and were sinful. It spoiled his
evening completely. Hedwig too silent. They rested like exhausted in
their sofa. - Only when he said that she was beautiful and smart,
met him a quick, surprised glance.

Then again, the tired eyes down.

So she sat still one hours together and talked about everything in the
neighborhood in the meantime had happened.

Hedwig thoroughly inquired after the economic conditions. He gave precise
information about everything.

Then the clock in the box ten, and Hedwig rose. Wilms felt that he must
go. He stood up right now. "Even one," he said, »here you have the
keys."

He took from a basket, based on the Nähtisch stood at the window,
a key ring and handed it to his sister-On. heedless girl received
the clangy things and hung them in the belt, but a Wilms beschlich
painful sensation in the process that powers Elsens so alike to her
sister went on.

It appeared to him also not so nice as before. Then they submitted
their hands and called for "Good Night". "are you sleeping here?"
Wilms said. " Yes, in ELSES bed. "" Well, good night. "" Good
night, brother. "* * * * * Wilms entered his garret.

On the table burned a light, which was a large envelope, which bore
inscriptions ELSES. Hastily Wilms tore the envelope. Inside he found
a picture and a note with a few words: "Dear, good, single man,
how happy I would like the festival to celebrate with you, because
I am so very afraid for you, but soon, soon, if God so adds I am
back in Dir with thousands of intimate kissing your poor Else.

"Wilms grabbed the picture. On an upholstered chair sat the sick, the
narrow face with large eyes slightly tilted forward.
Holed up somewhere out in the woods. A fellow came in
this morning and got Whaley, who snowshoed back with him at once."

Tom nodded agreement. "Maybeso. Whaley was away five or six hours.
That means he probably traveled from eight to ten miles out."

"Question is, in what direction? Nobody saw him go or come--at least,
so as to know that he didn't circle round the town and come in from
the other side."

"He'll go again, with supplies for West. Watch him."

"I'll do just that."

"He might send some one with them."

"Yes, he might do that," admitted Beresford. "I'll keep an eye on
the store and see what goes out. We want West. He's a cowardly
murderer--killed the man who trusted him--shot him in the back. This
country will be well rid of him when he's hanged for what he did to
poor Tim Kelly."

"He's a rotten bad lot, but he's dangerous. Never forget that," warned
the fur-buyer. "If he ever gets the drop on you for a moment, you're
gone."

"Of course we may be barking up the wrong tree," the officer reflected
aloud. "Maybe West isn't within five hundred miles of here. Maybe he
headed off another way. But I don't think it. He had to get back to
where he was known so as to get an outfit. That meant either this
country or Montana. And the word is that he was seen coming this way
both at Slide Out and crossing Old Man's River after he made his
getaway."

"He's likely figurin' on losin' himself in the North woods."

"My notion, too. Say, Tom, I have an invitation from a young lady for
you and me. I'm to bring you to supper, Jessie McRae says. To-night.
Venison and sheep pemmican--and real plum pudding, son. You're to
smoke the pipe of peace with Angus and warm yourself in the smiles of
Miss Jessie and Matapi-Koma. How's the programme suit you?"

Tom flushed. "I don't reckon I'll go," he said after a moment's
deliberation.

His friend clapped an affectionate hand on his shoulder. "Cards down,
old fellow. Spill the story of this deadly feud between you and Jessie
and I'll give you an outside opinion on it."

The Montanan looked at him bleakly. "Haven't you heard? If you
haven't, you're the only man in this country that hasn't."

"You mean--about the whipping?" Beresford asked gently.

"That's all," Morse answered bitterly. "Nothing a-tall. I merely had
her horsewhipped. You wouldn't think any girl would object to that,
would you?"

"I'd like to hear the right of it. How did it happen?"

"The devil was in me, I reckon. We were runnin' across the line that
consignment of whiskey you found and destroyed near Whoop-Up. She came
on our camp one night, crept up, and smashed some barrels. I caught
her. She fought like a wild-cat." Morse pulled up the sleeve of his
coat and showed a long, ragged scar on the arm. "Gave me that as a
lil' souvenir to remember her by. You see, she was afraid I'd take her
back to camp. So she fought. You know West. I wouldn't have taken her
to him."

"What did you do?"

"After I got her down, we came to terms. I was to take her to McRae's
camp and she was to be horsewhipped by him. My arm was hurtin' like
sin, and I was thinkin' her only a wild young Injun."

"So you took her home?"

"And McRae flogged her. You know him. He's Scotch--and thorough. It
was a sickening business. When he got through, he was white as snow. I
felt like a murderer. D'you wonder she hates me?"

Beresford's smile was winning. "Is it because she hates you that she
wants you to come to supper to-night?"

"It's because she's in debt to me--or thinks she is, for of course she
isn't--and wants to pay it and get rid of it as soon as she can. I
tell you, Win, she couldn't bear to touch my hand when she gave me the
key to the storehouse the other night--laid it down on the table for
me to pick up. It has actually become physical with her. She'd shudder
if I touched her. I'm not going to supper there. Why should I take
advantage of a hold I have on her generosity? No, I'll not go."

And from that position Beresford could not move him.

After supper the constable found a chance to see Jessie alone. She was
working over the last touches of the gun-case.

"When it's finished who gets it?" he asked, sitting down gracefully on
the arm of a big chair.

She flashed a teasing glance at him. "Who do you think deserves it?"

"I deserve it," he assured her at once. "But it isn't the deserving
always who get the rewards in this world. Very likely you'll give it
to some chap like Tom Morse."

"Who wouldn't come to supper when we asked him." She lifted steady,
inquiring eyes. "What was the real reason he didn't come?"

"Said he couldn't get away from the store because--"

"Yes, I heard that. I'm asking for the real reason, Win."

He gave it. "Tom thinks you hate him and he won't force himself on
your generosity."

"Oh!" She seemed to be considering that.

"Do you?"

"Do I what?"

"Hate him."

She felt a flush burning beneath the dusky brown of her cheeks. "If
you knew what he'd done to me--"

"Perhaps I do," he said, very gently.

Her dark eyes studied him intently. "He told you?"

"No, one hears gossip. He hates himself because of it. Tom's white,
Jessie."

"And I'm Indian. Of course that does make a difference. If he'd had a
white girl whipped, you couldn't defend him," she flamed.

"You know I didn't mean that, little pal." His sunny smile was
disarming. "What I mean is that he's sorry for what he did. Why not
give him a chance to be friends?"

"Well, we gave him a chance to-night, didn't we? And he chose not to
take it. What do you want me to do--go and thank him kindly for having
me whipped?"

Beresford gave up with a shrug. He knew when he had said enough. Some
day the seed he had dropped might germinate.

"Wouldn't it be a good idea to work a W.B. on that case?" he asked
with friendly impudence. "Then if I lost it, whoever found it could
return it."

"I don't give presents to people who lose them," she parried.

Her dancing eyes were very bright as they met his. She loved the trim
lines of his clean beautiful youth and the soul expressed by them.

Matapi-Koma waddled into the room and the Mounted Policeman
transferred his attention to her. She weighed two hundred twelve
pounds, but was not sensitive on the subject. Beresford claimed
anxiously that she was growing thin.

The Indian woman merely smiled on him benignantly. She liked him, as
all women did. And she hoped that he would stay in the country and
marry Sleeping Dawn.


CHAPTER XX

ONISTAH READS SIGN


McRae fitted Jessie's snowshoes.

"You'll be hame before the dark, lass," he said, a little anxiously.

"Yes, Father."

The hunter turned to Onistah. "She's in your care, lad. Gin the
weather changes, or threatens to, let the traps go and strike for the
toon. You're no' to tak chances."

"Back assam weputch (very early)," promised the Blackfoot.

He was proud of the trust confided to him. To him McRae was a great
man. Among many of the trappers and the free traders the old Scot's
word was law. They came to him with their disputes for settlement and
abided by his decisions. For Angus was not only the patriarch of the
clan, if such a loose confederation of followers could be called a
clan; he was esteemed for his goodness and practical common sense.

Onistah's heart swelled with an emotion that was more than vanity. His
heart filled with gladness that Jessie should choose him as guide and
companion to snowshoe with her out into the white forests where her
traps were set. For the young Indian loved her dumbly, without any
hope of reward, in much the same way that some of her rough soldiers
must have loved Joan of Arc. Jessie was a mistress whose least whim he
felt it a duty to obey. He had worshiped her ever since he had seen
her, a little eager warm-hearted child, playing in his mother's
wigwam. She was as much beyond his reach as the North Star. Yet her
swift tender smile was for him just as it was for Fergus.

They shuffled out of the village into the forest that crept up to the
settlement on all sides. Soon they were deep in its shadows, pushing
along the edge of a muskeg which they skirted carefully in order not
to be hampered by its treacherous boggy footing.

Jessie wore a caribou-skin capote with the fur on as a protection
against the cold wind. Her moccasins were of smoked moose-skin
decorated with the flower-pattern bead embroidery so much in use among
the French half-breeds of the North. The socks inside them were of
duffle and the leggings of strouds, both materials manufactured for
the Hudson's Bay Company for its trappers.

The day was comparatively warm, but the snow was not slushy nor very
deep. None the less she was glad when they reached the trapping ground
and Onistah called a halt for dinner. She was tired, from the weight
of the snow on her shoes, and her feet were blistered by reason of the
lacings which cut into the duffle and the tender flesh inside.

Onistah built a fire of poplar, which presently crackled like a battle
front and shot red-hot coals at them in an irregular fusillade. Upon
this they made tea, heated pemmican and bannocks, and thawed a jar of
preserves Jessie had made the previous summer of service berries and
wild raspberries. Before it they dried their moccasins, socks, and
leggings.

Afterward they separated to make a round of the traps, agreeing to
meet an hour and a half later at the place of their dinner camp.

The Blackfoot found one of the small traps torn to pieces, probably by
a bear, for he saw its tracks in the snow. He rebuilt the snare
and baited it with parts of a rabbit he had shot. In one trap he
discovered a skunk and in another a timber wolf. When he came in sight
of the rendezvous, he was late.

Jessie was not there. He waited half an hour in growing anxiety before
he went to meet her. Night would fall soon. He must find her while it
was still light enough to follow her tracks. The disasters that might
have fallen upon her crowded his mind. A bear might have attacked her.
She might be lost or tangled in the swampy muskeg. Perhaps she had
accidentally shot herself.

As swiftly as he could he snowshoed through the forest, following the
plain trail she had left. It carried him to a trap from which she had
taken prey, for it was newly baited and the snow was sprinkled with
blood. Before he reached the second gin, the excitement in him
quickened. Some one in snowshoes had cut her path and had deflected
to pursue. Onistah knew that the one following was a white man. The
points of the shoes toed out. Crees toed in, just the same on webs as
in moccasins.

His imagination was active. What white man had any business in these
woods? Why should he leave that business to overtake Jessie McRae?
Onistah did not quite know why he was worried, but involuntarily he
quickened his pace.

Less than a quarter of a mile farther on, he read another chapter of
the story written in the trampled snow. There had been a struggle. His
mistress had been overpowered. He could see where she had been flung
into a white bank and dragged out of it. She had tried to run and had
got hardly a dozen yards before recapture. From that point the tracks
moved forward in a straight line, those of the smaller webs blotted
out by the ones made by the larger. The man was driving the girl
before him.

Who was he? Where was he taking her? For what purpose? Onistah could
not guess. He knew that McRae had made enemies, as any forceful
character on the frontier must. The Scotchman had kicked out lazy
ne'er-do-wells from his camp. As a free trader he had matched himself
against the Hudson's Bay Company. But of those at war with him few
would stoop to revenge themselves on his daughter. The Blackfoot had
not heard of the recent trouble between Whaley and the McRaes, nor had
the word reached him that Bully West was free again. Wherefore he was
puzzled at what the signs on the snow told him.

Yet he knew he had read them correctly. The final proof of it to him
was that Jessie broke trail and not the man. If he were a friend he
would lead the way. He was at her heels because he wanted to make sure
that she did not try to escape or to attack him.

The tracks led down into the muskeg. It was spitting snow, but he had
no difficulty in seeing where the trail led from hummock to hummock in
the miry earth. The going here was difficult, for the thick moss was
full of short, stiff brush that caught the webbed shoes and tripped
the traveler. It was hard to find level footing. The mounds were
uneven, and more than once Onistah plunged knee-deep from one into the
swamp.

He crossed the muskeg and climbed an ascent into the woods, swinging
sharply to the right. There was no uncertainty as to the direction of
the tracks in the snow. If they veered for a few yards, it was only to
miss a tree or to circle down timber. Whoever he might be, the man who
had taken Jessie prisoner knew exactly where he was going.

The Blackfoot knew by the impressions of the webs that he was a large,
heavy man. Once or twice he saw stains of tobacco juice on the snow.
The broken bits of a whiskey-bottle flung against a tree did not tend
to reassure him.

He saw smoke. It came from a tangle of undergrowth in a depression of
the forest. Very cautiously, with the patience of his race, he circled
round the cabin through the timber and crept up to it on hands and
knees. Every foot of the way he took advantage of such cover as was to
be had.

The window was a small, single-paned affair built in the end opposite
the door. Onistah edged close to it and listened. He heard the drone
of voices, one heavy and snarling, another low and persuasive.

His heart jumped at the sound of a third voice, a high-pitched treble.
He would have known it among a thousand. It had called to him in
the swirl of many a wind-swept storm. He had heard it on the long
traverse, in the stillness of the lone night, at lakeside camps built
far from any other human being. His imagination had heard it on
the summer breeze as he paddled across a sun-drenched lake in his
birch-bark canoe.

The Blackfoot raised his head till he could look through the window.

Jessie McRae sat on a stool facing him. Two men were in the room. One
strode heavily up and down while the other watched him warily.


CHAPTER XXI

ON THE FRONTIER OF DESPAIR


The compulsion of life had denied Jessie the niceness given girls by
the complexities of modern civilization. She had been brought up close
to raw stark nature. The habits of animals were familiar to her and
the vices of the biped man.

A traveler in the sub-Arctic is forced by the deadly cold of the North
into a near intimacy of living with his fellows. Jessie had more than
once taken a long sled journey with her father. On one occasion she
had slept in a filthy Indian wigwam with a dozen natives all breathing
the same foul, unventilated air. Again she had huddled up against the
dogs, with her father and two French half-breeds, to keep in her the
spark of life a blizzard's breath was trying to blow out.

On such a trip some of the common decencies of existence are dropped.
The extreme low temperature makes it impossible for one to wash either
face or hands without the skin chapping and breaking. Food at which
one would revolt under other circumstances is devoured eagerly.

Jessie was the kind of girl such a life had made her, with
modifications in the direction of fineness induced by McRae's sturdy
character, her schooling at Winnipeg, and the higher plane of the
family standard. As might have been expected, she had courage, energy,
and that quality of decisive action bred by primitive conditions.

But she had retained, too, a cleanness of spirit hardly to be looked
for in such a primeval daughter of Eve. Her imagination and her
reading had saved the girl's sweet modesty. A certain detachment made
it possible for her to ignore the squalor of the actual and see it
only as a surface triviality, to let her mind dwell in inner concepts
of goodness and beauty while bestiality crossed the path she trod.

So when she found in one of the gins a lynx savage with the pain of
bruised flesh and broken bone snapped by the jaws of the trap,
the girl did what needed to be done swiftly and with a minimum of
reluctance.

She was close to the second trap when the sound of webs slithering
along the snow brought her up short. Her first thought was that
Onistah had changed his mind and followed her, but as soon as the
snowshoer came out of the thick timber, she saw that he was not an
Indian.

He was a huge man, and he bulked larger by reason of the heavy furs
that enveloped him. His rate of travel was rapid enough, but there was
about the gait an awkward slouch that reminded her of a grizzly. Some
sullenness of temperament seemed to find expression in the fellow's
movements.

The hood of his fur was drawn well forward over the face. He wore blue
glasses, as a protection against snow-blindness apparently. Jessie
smiled, judging him a tenderfoot; for except in March and April there
is small danger of the sun glare which destroys sight. Yet he hardly
looked like a newcomer to the North. For one thing he used the web
shoes as an expert does. Before he stopped beside her, she was
prepared to revise a too hasty opinion.

Jessie recoiled at the last moment, even before she recognized him. It
was too late to take precautions now. He caught her by the wrist and
tore off his glasses, at the same time shaking back the hood.

"Glad to death to meet up with you, missie," he grinned evilly through
broken, tobacco-stained teeth.

The blood drenched out of her heart. She looked at the man, silent
and despairing. His presence here could mean to her nothing less than
disaster. The girl's white lips tried to frame words they could not
utter.

"Took by surprise, ain't you?" he jeered. "But plumb pleased to see
old Bully West again, eh? It's a damn long lane that ain't got a crook
in it somewheres. An' here we are at the turn together, jus' you'n'
me, comfy, like I done promised it would be when I last seen you."

She writhed in a swift, abortive attempt to break his hold.

He threw back his head in a roar of laughter, then with a twist of his
fingers brought his captive to the knees.

Sharp teeth flashed in a gleam of white. He gave a roar of pain and
tore away his hand. She had bit him savagely in the wrist, as she had
once done with another man on a memorable occasion.

"Goddlemighty!" he bellowed. "You damn li'l' hell-cat!"

She was on her feet and away instantly. But one of the snowshoes had
come off in the struggle. At each step she took the left foot plunged
through the white crust and impeded progress.

In a dozen strides he had reached her. A great arm swung round and
buffeted the runner on the side of the head. The blow lifted the girl
from her feet and flung her into a drift two yards away.

She looked up, dazed from the shock. The man was standing over her, a
huge, threatening, ill-shaped Colossus.

"Get up!" he ordered harshly, and seized her by the shoulder.

She found herself on her feet, either because she had risen or because
he had jerked her up. A ringing in the head and a nausea made for
dizziness.

"I'll learn you!" he exploded with curses. "Try that again an' I'll
beat yore head off. You're Bully West's woman, un'erstand? When I say
'Come!' step lively. When I say 'Go!' get a move on you."

"I'll not." Despite her fear she faced him with spirit. "My friends
are near. They'll come and settle, with you for this."

He put a check on his temper. Very likely what she said was true. It
was not reasonable to suppose that she was alone in the forest many
miles from Faraway. She had come, of course, to look at the traps, but
some one must have accompanied her. Who? And how many? The skulking
caution of his wild-beast nature asserted itself. He had better play
safe. Time enough to tame the girl when he had her deep in the Lone
Lands far from any other human being except himself. Just now the
first need was to put many miles between them and the inevitable
pursuit.

"Come," he said. "We'll go."

She started back for the snowshoe that had been torn off. Beside it
lay her rifle. If she could get hold of it again--

The great hulk moved beside her, his thumb and fingers round the back
of her neck. Before they reached the weapon, he twisted her aside so
cruelly that a flame of pain ran down her spine. She cried out.

He laughed as he stooped for the gun and the web. "Don' play none o'
yore monkey tricks on Bully West. He knew it all 'fore you was born."

The pressure of his grip swung Jessie to the left. He gave her a push
that sent her reeling and flung at her the snowshoe.

"Hump yoreself now."

She knelt and adjusted the web. She would have fought if there had
been the least chance of success. But there was none. Nor could she
run away. The fellow was a callous, black-hearted ruffian. He would
shoot her down rather than see her escape. If she became stubborn and
refused to move, he would cheerfully torture her until she screamed
with agony. There was nothing he would like better. No, for the
present she must take orders.

"Hit the trail, missie. Down past that big tree," he snapped.

"Where are you taking me?"

"Don't ask me questions. Do like I tell you."

The girl took one look at his heavy, brutal face and did as she
was told. Onistah would find her. When she did not show up at the
rendezvous, he would follow her trail and discover that something was
amiss. Good old Onistah never had failed her. He was true as tried
steel and in all the North woods there was no better tracker.

There would be a fight. If West saw him first, he would shoot the
Blackfoot at sight. She did not need to guess that. He would do it for
two reasons. The first was the general one that he did not want any of
her friends to know where he was. The more specific one was that he
already had a grudge against the young Indian that he would be glad to
pay once for all.

Jessie's one hope was that Onistah would hasten to the rescue. Yet she
dreaded the moment of his coming. He was a gentle soul, one of Father
Giguère's converts. It was altogether likely that he would walk into
the camp of the escaped convict openly and become a victim of the
murderer's guile. Onistah did not lack courage. He would fight if he
had to do so. Indeed, she knew that he would go through fire to save
her. But bravery was not enough. She could almost have wished that her
foster-brother was as full of devilish treachery as the huge ape-man
slouching at her heels. Then the chances of the battle would be more
even.

The desperado drove her down into the muskeg, directing the girl's
course with a flow of obscene and ribald profanity.

It is doubtful if she heard him. As her lithe, supple limbs carried
her from one moss hump to another, she was busy with the problem of
escape. She must get away soon. Every hour increased the danger. The
sun would sink shortly. If she were still this ruffian's prisoner
when the long Arctic night fell, she would suffer the tortures of the
damned. She faced the fact squarely, though her cheeks blanched at the
prospect and the heart inside her withered.

From the sloping side of a hummock her foot slipped and she slid into
the icy bog to her knees. Within a few minutes duffles and leggings
were frozen and she was suffering at each step.

Out of the muskeg they came into the woods. A flake of snow fell on
Jessie's cheek and chilled her blood. For she knew that if it came on
to snow before Onistah took the trail or even before he reached the
place to which West was taking her, the chances of a rescue would be
very much diminished. A storm would wipe out the tracks they had made.

"Swing back o' the rock and into the brush," West growled. Then, as
she took the narrow trail through the brush that had grown up among
half a dozen small down trees, he barked a question: "Whadjasay yore
Injun name was?"

"My name is Jessie McRae," she answered with a flash of angry pride.
"You know who I am--the daughter of Angus McRae. And if you do me any
harm, he'll hunt you down and kill you like a wolf."

He caught her by the arm and whirled the girl round. His big yellow
canines snapped like tusks and he snarled at her through clenched
jaws. "Did you hear yore master's voice? I said, what was yore squaw
name?"

She almost shrieked from the pain of his fingers' savage clutch into
her flesh. The courage died out of her arteries.

"Sleeping Dawn they called me."

"Too long," he pronounced. "I'll call you Dawn." The sight of her
terror of him, the foretaste of the triumph he was to enjoy, restored
him for a moment to a brutal good-humor. "An' when I yell 'Dawn' at
you o' mornin's, it'll be for you to hump yoreself an' git up to build
the fires and rustle breakfast. I'll treat you fine if you behave, but
if you git sulky, you'll taste the dog-whip. I'm boss. You'll have
a heluva time if you don't come runnin' when I snap my fingers.
Un'erstand?"

She broke down in a wailing appeal to whatever good there was in him.
"Let me go back to Father! I know you've broke prison. If you're good
to me, he'll help you escape. You know he has friends everywhere.
They'll hide you from the red-coats. He'll give you an outfit to get
away--money--anything you want. Oh, let me go, and--and--"

He grinned, and the sight of his evil mirth told her she had failed.

"Didn't I tell you I'd git you right some day? Didn't I promise Angus
McRae I'd pay him back aplenty for kickin' me outa his hide camp?
Ain't you the lil' hell-cat that busted my whiskey-kegs, that ran to
the red-coat spy an' told him where the cache was, that shot me up
when I set out to dry-gulch him, as you might say? Where do you figure
you got a license to expect Bully West to listen to Sunday-school pap
about being good to you? You're my squaw, an' lucky at that you got a
real two-fisted man. Hell's hinges! What's eatin' you?"

"Never!" she cried. "It's true what I told you once. I'd rather die.
Oh, if you've got a spark of manhood in you, don't make me kill
myself. I'm just a girl. If I ever did you wrong, I'm sorry. I'll make
it right. My father--"

"Listen." His raucous voice cut through her entreaties. "I've heard
more'n plenty about McRae. All I want o' him is to get a bead on
him once with a rifle. Get me? Now this other talk--about killin'
yoreself--nothin' to it a-tall. Confoederatio civitatum, ital.
Confederazione degli stati) and federal (Federal Empire, Föderativstaat,
Total Empire, Total Country, State, Civitas foederata s.
Compositae, by the Italian journalist called Stato Federativo) can
be distinguished. The state union as the state is a majority of
states with particular areas of government and state governments
and, wofern the monarchic past, even with different Staatsbeherrschern
available.

Both are in contrast to the temporary alliance on the duration,
both are also a political body with a central power dar. Solo in the
federation are always certain tasks, what the purpose of the federal
form of state on the other hand, examines the purpose of State ever
to be fulfilled.

The confederation is primarily federal, the state is predominantly
state. The federation is an international association with an
international character, the state is a real state with a national
character. So Switzerland was until 1848 a confederation of states,
whereas they are now by means of the Constitution of 12 Sept. 1848
is a federal state.

Even the United States of North America are such, and as the third
state, the present German Reich added, while the former U.S. federal
government a mere confederation of states was.

Certainly in Germany corresponds to the current usage of the practical
political life of the school term is not theoretical.

Because it maintains the individual officially allied German states to
designate as the states, while theoretically the whole state to which
they are united, so the German Empire, the state.

In each occur especially following contrasts show: In the former
German Confederation as a mere confederation of states were fully
sovereign states.

The body of this covenant, the Frankfurt Bundestag, consisted solely
of the agent instructed by the various federal sovereign governments.
The nationals of each state was central to that body in no direct
relationship, but the federal decisions, only for the allied governments,
but not for those governed by legally binding force.

They got them for the relatives of the individual states rather
only by the fact that they are concerned by the government as a
single law has been promulgated.

The German Reich as a state has, however, a real state power, as opposed
to merely contractual created violence in the central states.

In subordination to the state violence of the general government is a
limitation on the sovereignty of individual governments.

The kingdom also exerts a real legislative power, the Reich laws
go before the country's laws, and they receive their legally binding
force for the Unterthanen of the Empire and the individual states
through the proclamation of the kingdom's sake.

The former is now the German Bundestag, the Federal Council.

But he is in the German Reich as a real constitutional state in the
Reichstag a parliament to the side.

At the top of this general government is a single monarch, who proclaimed
the kingdom and carry out laws, including the realm of international
law is responsible, that called the war declared and peace closes.

In the Reichskanzler he is a responsible minister which are which of
course in the state union is not the question. The German Reich has
his own kingdom officials, his own army and its finances are like a
real state.

The Unterthanen of the individual German states are now in a double
Unterthanenverhältnis they are citizens of the individual State
to which they belong, and Unterthanen the concerned government, but
they are also simultaneously Unterthanen and citizens of the German
Empire, and in relation to each other no more foreigners.

While the German federal government finally is simply "to preserve
and express the inner security of Germany and the independence and
inviolability of the individual German states," had set as an end,
is the purpose of the federal empire is now "the protection of the
federal territory and within the same legal force as well as the
maintenance of the welfare of the German people ", ie the general
government purpose.

The organization of the German Empire and the above-mentioned two
others states illustrates the following table: State Legislative
Executive Violence Violence Representation of States representing
the people Kaiser Deutsches Reich Bundesrat Bundesrat Reichskanzler
Reichstag President, North American Union Congress Senate House of
Representatives Federal Senate Nationalrat Switzerland Federal
Assembly [s.

Image View] The conditions and relations of the State Government to
Staatsunterthanen and the relationships among the last, to the extent
that they relate to the S., by state law (sd) regulated.

There are also the statutes on the legal relations in a compound S.,
which is primarily a real union and the state can be described.

For 198 federation - prosecutor.

The German Reich is the totality of those legal principles, the
Empire State Law.

The state lives on the other hand, is the subject of politics
(sd), while the relationships of several independent states with
each other according to international law (sd) determined.

See Waitz, The essence of the State (in its "basic policy", Kiel
1862), Jellinek, the doctrine of the states of compounds (Vienna
1882), Brie, The State (Leipz. 1874); same, the theory states
compounds (Stuttg. 1886 ). federation, states, system state s..
island states, the easternmost island of the fire country, from the
main island by the 60 km wide Le Maire Street separately, has steep,
deeply incised by Baien coasts, rising to 900 m and is almost the
throughout the year covered with snow.

Ostend is situated close to St. John's harbor. The island was by
Schouten 1616 in honor of the "stateless" (stands) of the Netherlands
appointed. Staatsadreßbuch, s. state manual.

Nationality (national law, Indigenat), the capacity as Unterthan
in a given state. The state is the state of a double rule, he is under
the state authority of the individual State to which he belongs,
and he is the federal-(Reichs-) violence, subordinated, which in
the overall country, what the individual state listened.

Thus, for the members of the German holding a pp or a Landesindigenat
and a Reichsangehörigkeit or Bundesindigenat (sd). The Reichsangehörigkeit,
the P. in a single German state provided it is purchased with the
P. and ends with the same.

According to the federal (Imperial) Act of June 1, 1870 through the
acquisition and loss of German nationality and the S., which therefore
Reichsangehörigkeit by itself is acquired by descent from a German
father and for illegitimate children through the birth of one of
the country concerned parent members, also by the subsequent
legitimation by the natural father, then from a wife whose marriage
with a national and finally to the national of a State by its
inclusion in another (on migration), and for foreigners or no English
by naturalization (immigration) of the same.

Both admission and naturalization, is made by the higher administrative
authority of the State and the inclusion free.

The main difference between admission and naturalization is that
the inclusion of all members of another state must be granted if
it is a question and after looking at the same time proves that he
is in the state in which he makes the recording after looking to
have established, it should because one of the cases are available,
which under the Act vested the Neuanziehenden or reject a
non-continuation of the stay as justified.

On the other hand, there is no obligation for the naturalization of an
alien whose overall capacity requirements planning, respectively.

Consent of legal representative, integrity, housing at places of
settlement and the ability to himself and his family eat, you are.
At state, churches and municipal servants, the appointment or the
inclusion of the Naturalisationsurkunde.

The S. is lost by ten years of uninterrupted residence abroad,
unless the person in possession of a travel document or note home is
located; Inländerin through a marriage with a foreigner or a
national of another state, as well as the illegitimate child of a
domestic woman person by the legitimacy on the part of foreign
father.

Furthermore, P. lost by the dismissal, which is given safely, if
the redundancies in another German state which has acquired S..

The dismissal is against conscripts completed by 17th until 25 Age
objectionable, as well as military personnel and active reservists
service convened and Landwehrkanal people over.

Moreover, a German S. and hence the Reichsangehörigkeit to be
declared forfeit if he, without the permission of his government
to foreign government service occurs, or if he, in the case a war
or a threat of war abroad and staying in a call to return within
the time limit is not followed.

However, the P. not lost that one in another state naturalized, as is
the case in France. Germans, with their tenth anniversary by P. staying
abroad have lost, the S. in the former home state again awarded ,
even if they are in the home state does not turn down, wofern they
do not otherwise have acquired wide pp.

It must again be given to them when they settle there again, even
if they have an otherwise wide S. should have purchased.

Moreover, those ten-year period from entry in the registers of a
wealthy consul in another ten years suspended. The certificate of
nationality is P. identity (origin). See v. Martitz, the right of
the p. in international traffic (Leipz. 1875); Folleville, Traité
de la naturalization (para 1880), Cahn, Das Reich law on the
acquisition and loss of empire and S.

(Berl . 1889).

Treasury bonds, see government debt. prosecutor, to the perception
of the public interest in legal matters, and particularly in investigating
matters ordered state officials, public prosecutor (ministère public),
which ordered permanent authority. In ancient times, the Institute
of Public Prosecution alien.

We left it to the injured or their family members, court Genugthuung
search, and only occasionally did speakers with a public indictment,
without that state because they were encouraged.

The origin of P. is in France to seek woselbst the prosecutor from
the current fiscal officers (gens du roi, avocats généraux, Procureur
du Roi) emerged, which the royal Gerechtsame perceived in the
courts and the fiscal interests were represented.

But already in the Middle Ages, these officials was also the perception
of the public interests transferred to criminal acts, and so developed
in France, the judicial Thätigkeit the prosecutor as the main,
though not exclusive sphere of the same profession.

According to current French law, as the same name by the Organic Law
of Napoleon I., 20 April 1810 normalized, is that the S. even as
guardians of the law.

He, therefore, also in civil rights 199 Staatsärar - State pharmaceutics.
Litigation, even if the state interest is not directly in question
in Thätigkeit.

S. also conveys the traffic of the Justice Department with the courts,
he takes as representative of civil society to acts of voluntary
jurisdiction in part, provides for the movement of the courts among
themselves and with foreign countries, monitored the course of
business of the courts, requesting investigations, supervises the
Lawyers and Subalternbeamten and oversees the prison system.

In criminal cases, the prosecution of all criminal acts and also the
enforcement of criminal judgments made by the S.. The functions
of the Prosecutor will be at the Court of Cassation by the Procureur
général (Procurator General) and six representatives of the same (avocats
généraux) perceived. Also acts in the appeal courts a Procurator
General, the attorney general and substitutes (substitute du Procureur
général) are added. The courts are under Public Prosecutor (Procureur
de la République) and substitutes or aides ordered the same, while in
the police courts of the district attorneys office functions of
police commissioners are perceived .

According to this model is the French public prosecutor's office in
most European countries have been established, but it was, at least
in Germany, the criminal side of the Public Prosecutor of Thätigkeit
to which this imitation was limited, apart from in the Rhineland under
French model fully implemented judicial organization. The German
judicial laws from 1877 have the restriction rule. Civil Procedure,
knows the prosecutor's office to participate in the public interest
only in matrimonial matters and in Entmündigungsverfahren when it
comes, a person under guardianship to make state.

The German constitutional court, but expressly declares that the
prosecutor a service supervision of the judges should not be transferred.
The Office of the Prosecutor's Office itself is in the kingdom by a
court lawyer and Oberreich by one or more Lawyers Reich, the higher
the district and the jury by a prosecutor or more and at the
official and jury courts, by one or more official Lawyers exercised.

To Oberreich lawyer to lawyer and prosecutor realm can only judge
competent officers be appointed. Oberreich lawyer and an attorney
with the Empire Reichskanzler subordinate, while in respect of all
other Public Prosecutor of the provincial administration of justice
officials the right of direction and control exercised, but are the
first officials of the Prosecutor at the district and all the higher
officials of the Prosecutor of its subordinate district. The first
prosecutor at the higher and in some countries also in the district
have the title senior prosecutor.

The former official title of "Attorney General" for the p. in the
highest instance courts will only award a title before. The term
"Kronanwalt" is no longer customary. In Austria, the S. at the
Supreme Court and Court of Cassation in Vienna titled "Procurator
General."

In the Upper Austrian Higher act prosecutor. Officials of the
prosecution service have the directions of their superiors to
pursue.

The officers of the police and security services are auxiliary
officers of the Prosecutor's Office and in this capacity are required
to provide the orders of the prosecutor and those of senior officers
to be obeyed.

Thätigkeit of the Prosecutor, according to the German Code of
Criminal Procedure at the core of the criminal acts Vorermittelung
(pre-trial, identified, Skrutinialverfahren), in the application
for preliminary investigation and the same, as well as assisting
in the collection and representation of public proceedings in
criminal acts.

Only insults and injuries, where such crimes are prosecuted at the
request, it is for the injured or to his place on the role of the
criminal application entitled, through the prosecution of private
action to operate.

But if this is in the public interest seems, also in such cases of S.
prosecution.

The so-called. private subsidiary plea, ie the right of the injured,
in the case of a rejection of prosecution by the prosecutor that law
enforcement itself to operate in the Code of Criminal Procedure is
not recorded, although the German had Juristentag favor. But it is
for the case that the prosecutor attached to in their application
for collection of public action is not a consequence, not only the
right of appeal to the superior service authority, but also against
a negative decision of the last recourse to judicial decision down
the .

This is from the Higher and the court before the kingdom belongs to
this stuff yourself. In this way is the so-called. Monopoly of the
public prosecutor's indictment mitigated. Incidentally, the public
prosecutor against judicial decisions to favor the accused from
the lawful exercise remedies.

Finally, the enforcement responsibility of the Prosecutor. In
Prussia, incidentally is also the S. Monitoring of the Commercial Code
to the obligations imposed ob Kaufleuten See German Constitutional
Court, § 142-153; German Code of Criminal Procedure, § 151-175,
225 ff, 483 ff; Austrian Code of Criminal Procedure, Section 29 et
seq; Berninger, The Institute of Public Prosecution (Erlang. 1861);
of Holtz Dorff, Transforming Prosecution (Berl. 1865), Keller, The
Public Prosecutor in Germany (Vienna 1866); Gneist, four questions
on the Criminal Procedure (das 1874); King, The business management
of the public prosecutor's office in Prussia (Berl. 1882); Tinsch,
The Prosecutor in the German Reich Procedural Law (Erlang. 1883);
by Marck, The Prosecutor's Office in the country and courts (Berl.
1884); Massabiau, Manuel du ministère public (4th ed, para 1876, 3
vols; "Répertoire" will, 1885 ).

Staatsärar, SVW Exchequer (sd). pharmaceutics state, that
part of medicine, which the public health jurisdiction and serve.

The concept falls in the normal use of language with that of the legal
medicine, the newly-Institut in Berlin for S. contains in addition
to a room for the morgue, in which unknown to the injured reconnaissance
be issued, including the teaching of legal medicine of the necessary
facilities.

In a broader sense to include government spending P. 200 - State
Flanders.

Major parts of health care (sd), the Medizinalpolizei, the
Militärmedizinalwesens alone both in academic teaching as in practical
management, these different parts of the S. completely separate
subjects.

See Kraus and Pichler, S. Encyklopädisches Dictionary (Stuttg. 1872
to 1878, 4 vols).

Government expenditure, see finance, p. 267 National bankruptcy, one
condition of the state economy in which the state, be it with, whether
it without explicit declaration, its debt obligations are not fulfilled
or revenue gains, which with the Constitution or even with a healthy
financial management conflict.

Like any private, may also be the state in the situation that he
is unable to fulfill its obligations to meet. The formal consequences
of the insolvency to the private man has, the bankruptcy process,
the inability to own property management, will then certainly not
against the state, and it contributes to S. therefore the unilateral
character of a violent act.

The same occurs in the following forms: 1) repudiation of the debt,
ie a statement that the state's debt or a part of that do not pay
interest or repay will. Such a refusal was formerly often when
changing the government by the new government by the early commitments
as declared unlawful (single North American Free State 1841, Denmark
1850, which is the Anlehen by the German federal government in
Schleswig-Holstein federal government set up non-approved, France
to revolutionary period), 2) cessation of payments for an indefinite
period, 3) one-sided, ie without the offer of payment etwaniger
home, without the consent of creditors, interest rate-induced
reduction, 4) unilateral or relatively high taxation of Koupons of
government, ie a disguised reduction of interest rate, 5) Issue an
excessive amount of paper money with the compulsory course.

From the moral point of view, any deviation from the fulfillment of
state obligations in order to be condemned more than the same
with one of the first tasks of the State, the rule of law, stands
in contradiction.

But even in the financial relationship is to disapprove, as they for
the future of the credit of the State more difficult and expensive.

Solid state administrations are therefore also to avoid bankruptcy and
try to push the balance between revenue and expenditure by
economic assessment of the last reorganization the management and
appropriate utilization of the tax law. state operation, the operation
of enterprises by the state, which more or less a private character.

The same can be completely on the soil of free competition are
(domains, forests, mines), or he has a financial interest (eg the
tobacco monopoly) or from other causes or monopolized regasiert.

See tax and expenses Regalien.

Citizen, in a broader sense of all citizens (see nationality); engern
in the sense of one who selbstthätig in the Constitution referred
to the way public affairs participates.

He woke from his reveries to discover that she was giving him
Tennyson, that fragment from "Guinevere" when Arthur tells her of the
dream her guilt has tarnished. And as she spoke there stirred in him
the long-forgotten aspirations of his youth.

  "... for indeed I knew
  Of no more subtle master under heaven
  Than is the maiden passion for a maid,
  Not only to keep down the base in man,
  But teach high thought and amiable words
  And courtliness, and the desire of fame,
  And love of truth, and all that makes a man."

His eyes were no longer impassive. There was in them, for the moment
at least, a hunted, haggard look. He saw himself as he was, in a blaze
of light that burned down to his very soul.

And he saw her too transformed--not a half-breed, the fair prey of any
man's passion, but a clean, proud, high-spirited white girl who lived
in the spirit as well as the flesh.

"You're tired. Better lie down and sleep," he told her, very gently.

Jessie looked at him, and she knew she was safe. She might sleep
without fear. This man would not harm her any more than Beresford
or Morse would have done. Some chemical change had occurred in his
thoughts that protected her. She did not know what it was, but her
paean of prayer went up to heaven in a little rush of thanksgiving.

She did not voice her gratitude to him. But the look she gave him was
more expressive than words.

Out of the storm a voice raucous and profane came to them faintly.

"Ah, crapaud Wulf, pren' garde. Yeu-oh! (To the right!) Git down to
it, Fox. Sacre demon! Cha! Cha! (To the left!)"

Then the crack of a whip and a volley of oaths.

The two in the cabin looked at each other. One was white to the lips.
The other smiled grimly. It was the gambler that spoke their common
thought.

"Bully West, by all that's holy!"


CHAPTER XXIV

WEST MAKES A DECISION


Came to those in the cabin a string of oaths, the crack of a whip
lashing out savagely, and the yelps of dogs from a crouching, cowering
team.

Whaley slipped a revolver from his belt to the right-hand pocket of
his fur coat.

The door burst open. A man stood on the threshold, a huge figure
crusted with snow, beard and eyebrows ice-matted. He looked like the
storm king who had ridden the gale out of the north. This on the
outside, at a first glance only. For the black scowl he flung at his
partner was so deadly that it seemed to come red-hot from a furnace of
hate and evil passion.

"Run to earth!" he roared. "Thought you'd hole up, you damned fox,
where I wouldn't find you. Thought you'd give Bully West the slip,
you'n' that li'l' hell-cat. Talk about Porcupine Creek, eh? Tried to
send me mushin' over there while you'n' her--"

What the fellow said sent a hot wave creeping over the girl's face to
the roots of her hair. The gambler did not speak, but his eyes, filmed
and wary, never lifted from the other's bloated face.

"Figured I'd forget the ol' whiskey cache, eh? Figured you could gimme
the double-cross an' git away with it? Hell's hinges, Bully West's no
fool! He's forgot more'n you ever knew."

The man swaggered forward, the lash of the whip trailing across the
puncheon floor. Triumph rode in his voice and straddled in his gait.
He stood with his back to the fireplace absorbing heat, hands behind
him and feet set wide. His eyes gloated over the victims he had
trapped. Presently he would settle with both of them.

"Not a word to say for yoreselves, either one o' you," he jeered.
"Good enough. I'll do what talkin' 's needed, then I'll strip the hide
off'n both o' you." With a flirt of the arm he sent the lash of the
dog-whip snaking out toward Jessie.

She shrank back against the wall, needlessly. It was a threat, not an
attack; a promise of what was to come.

"Let her alone." They were the first words Whaley had spoken. In his
soft, purring voice they carried out the suggestion of his crouched
tenseness. If West was the grizzly bear, the other was the forest
panther, more feline, but just as dangerous.

The convict looked at him, eyes narrowed, head thrust forward and
down. "What's that?"

"I said to let her alone."

West's face heliographed amazement. "Meanin'--?"

"Meaning exactly what I say. You'll not touch her."

It was a moment before this flat defiance reached the brain of the big
man through the penumbra of his mental fog. When it did, he strode
across the room with the roar of a wild animal and snatched the girl
to him. He would show whether any one could come between him and his
woman.

In three long steps Whaley padded across the floor. Something cold and
round pressed against the back of the outlaw's tough red neck.

"Drop that whip."

The order came in a low-voiced imperative. West hesitated. This
man--his partner--would surely never shoot him about such a trifle.
Still--

"What's eatin' you?" he growled. "Put up that gun. You ain't fool
enough to shoot."

"Think that hard enough and you'll never live to know better. Hands
off the girl."

The slow brain of West functioned. He had been taken wholly by
surprise, but as his cunning mind Worked the situation out, he saw how
much it would be to Whaley's profit to get rid of him. The gambler
would get the girl and the reward for West's destruction. He would
inherit his share of their joint business and would reinstate himself
as a good citizen with the Mounted and with McRae's friends.

Surlily the desperado yielded. "All right, if you're so set on it."

"Drop the whip."

The fingers of West opened and the handle fell to the floor. Deftly
the other removed a revolver from its place under the outlaw's left
armpit.

West glared at him. That moment the fugitive made up his mind that he
would kill Whaley at the first good opportunity. A tide of poisonous
hatred raced through his veins. Its expression but not its virulence
was temporarily checked by wholesome fear. He must be careful that the
gambler did not get him first.

His voice took on a whine intended for good-fellowship. "I reckon
I was too pre-emtory. O' course I was sore the way you two left me
holdin' the sack. Any one would 'a' been now, wouldn't they? But no
use friends fallin' out. We got to make the best of things."

Whaley's chill face did not warm. He knew the man with whom he was
dealing. When he began to butter his phrases, it was time to look out
for him. He would forget that his partner had brought him from Faraway
a dog-team with which to escape, that he was supplying him with funds
to carry him through the winter. He would remember only that he had
balked and humiliated him.

"Better get into the house the stuff from the sled," the gambler said.
"And we'll rustle wood. No telling how long this storm'll last."

"Tha's right," agreed West. "When I saw them sun dogs to-day I figured
we was in for a blizzard. Too bad you didn't outfit me for a longer
trip."

A gale was blowing from the north, carrying on its whistling breath
a fine hard sleet that cut the eyeballs like powdered glass. The men
fought their way to the sled and wrestled with the knots of the frozen
ropes that bound the load. The lumps of ice that had gathered round
these had to be knocked off with hammers before they could be freed.
When they staggered into the house with their packs, both men
were half-frozen. Their hands were so stiff that the fingers were
jointless.

They stopped only long enough to limber up the muscles. Whaley handed
to Jessie the revolver he had taken from West.

"Keep this," he said. His look was significant. It told her that in
the hunt for wood he might be blinded by the blizzard and lost. If he
failed to return and West came back alone, she would know what to do
with it.

Into the storm the two plunged a second time. They carried ropes and
an axe. Since West had arrived, the gale had greatly increased. The
wind now was booming in deep, sullen roars and the temperature had
fallen twenty degrees already. The sled dogs were nowhere to be seen
or heard. They had burrowed down into the snow where the house would
shelter them from the hurricane as much as possible.

The men reached the edge of the creek. They struggled in the frozen
drifts with such small dead trees as they could find. In the darkness
Whaley used the axe as best he could at imminent risk to his legs.
Though they worked only a few feet apart, they had to shout to make
their voices carry.

"We better be movin' back," West called through his open palms. "We
got all we can haul."

They roped the wood and dragged it over the snow in the direction
they knew the house to be. Presently they found the sled and from it
deflected toward the house.

Jessie had hot tea waiting for them. They kicked off their webs and
piled the salvaged wood into the other end of the cabin, after which
they hunkered down before the fire to drink tea and eat pemmican and
bannocks.

They had with them about fifty pounds of frozen fish for the dogs and
provisions enough to last the three of them four or five meals. Whaley
had brought West supplies enough to carry him only to Lookout, where
he was to stock for a long traverse into the wilds.

As the hours passed there grew up between the gambler and the girl a
tacit partnership of mutual defense. No word was spoken of it, but
each knew that the sulky brute in the chimney corner was dangerous. He
would be held by no scruples of conscience, no laws of friendship or
decency. If the chance came he would strike.

The storm raged and howled. It flung itself at the cabin with what
seemed a ravenous and implacable fury. The shriek of it was now
like the skirling of a thousand bagpipes, again like the wailing of
numberless lost souls.

Inside, West snored heavily, his ill-shaped head drooping on the big
barrel chest of the man. Jessie slept while Whaley kept guard. Later
she would watch in her turn.

There were moments when the gale died down, but only to roar again
with a frenzy of increased violence.

The gray day broke and found the blizzard at its height.


CHAPTER XXV

FOR THE WEE LAMB LOST


Beresford, in front of the C.N. Morse & Company trading-post, watched
his horse paw at the snow in search of grass underneath. It was a sign
that the animal was prairie-bred. On the plains near the border grass
cures as it stands, retaining its nutriment as hay. The native pony
pushes the snow aside with its forefoot and finds its feed. But in the
timber country of the North grass grows long and coarse. When its sap
dries out, it rots.

The officer was thinking that he had better put both horse and cariole
up for the winter. It was time now for dogs and sled. Even in summer
this was not a country for horses. There were so many lakes that a
birch-bark canoe covered the miles faster.

Darkness was sweeping down over the land, and with it the first flakes
of a coming storm. Beresford had expected this, for earlier in the day
he had seen two bright mock suns in the sky. The Indians had told
him that these sun dogs were warnings of severe cold and probably a
blizzard.

Out of the edge of the forest a man on snowshoes came. He was moving
fast. Beresford, watching him idly, noticed that he toed in. Therefore
he was probably a Cree trapper. But the Crees were usually indolent
travelers. They did not cover ground as this man was doing.

The man was an Indian. The soldier presently certified his first guess
as to that. But not until the native was almost at the store did he
recognize him as Onistah.

The Blackfoot wasted no time in leading up to what he had to say.
"Sleeping Dawn she prisoner of Bully West and Whaley. She say bring
her father. She tell me bring him quick"

Beresford's body lost its easy grace instantly and became rigid. His
voice rang with sharp authority.

"Where is she?"

"She at Jasper's cabin on Cache Creek. She frightened."

As though the mention of Sleeping Dawn's name had reached him by some
process of telepathy, Tom Morse had come out and stood in the door of
the store. The trooper wheeled to him.

"Get me a dog-team, Tom. That fellow West has got Jessie McRae with
him on Cache Creek. We've got to move quick."

The storekeeper felt as though the bottom had dropped out of his
heart. He glanced up at the lowering night. "Storm brewing. We'll get
started right away." Without a moment's delay he disappeared inside
the store to make his preparations.

Onistah carried the news to McRae.

The blood washed out of the ruddy-whiskered face of the Scot, but his
sole comment was a Scriptural phrase of faith. "I have been young, and
now am old; yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken..."

It was less than half an hour later that four men and a dog-train
moved up the main street of Faraway and disappeared in the forest.
Morse broke trail and McRae drove the tandem. Onistah, who had already
traveled many miles, brought up the rear. The trooper exchanged places
with Morse after an hour's travel.

They were taking a short-cut and it led them through dead and down
timber that delayed the party. Tom was a good axeman, and more than
once he had to chop away obstructing logs. At other times by main
strength the men lifted or dragged the sled over bad places.

The swirling storm made it difficult to know where they were going or
to choose the best way. They floundered through deep snow and heavy
underbrush, faces bleeding from the whip of willow switches suddenly
released and feet so torn by the straps of the snowshoes that the
trail showed stains of blood which had soaked from the moccasins.

Onistah, already weary, began to lag. They dared not wait for him.
There was, they felt, not a moment to be lost. McRae's clean-shaven
upper lip was a straight, grim surface. He voiced no fears, no doubts,
but the others knew from their own anxiety how much he must be
suffering.

The gale increased. It drove in bitter blasts of fine stinging sleet.
When for a few hundred yards they drew out of the thick forest into an
open grove, it lashed them so furiously they could scarcely move in
the teeth of it.

The dogs were whimpering at their task. More than once they stopped,
exhausted by the wind against which they were battling. Their eyes
turned dumbly to McRae for instructions. He could only drive them back
to the trail Morse was breaking.

The train was one of the best in the North. The leader was a large
St. Bernard, weighing about one hundred sixty pounds, intelligent,
faithful, and full of courage. He stood thirty-four inches high at his
fore shoulder. Not once did Cuffy falter. Even when the others quit,
he was ready to put his weight to the load.

Through the howling of the wind Beresford shouted into the ear of
Morse. "Can't be far now. Question is can we find Jasper's in this
blizzard."

Morse shook his head. It did not seem likely. Far and near were words
which had no meaning. A white, shrieking monster seemed to be hemming
them in. Their world diminished to the space their outstretched arms
could reach. The only guide they had was Cache Creek, along the bank
of which they were traveling. Jasper's deserted cabin lay back from
it a few hundred yards, but Tom had not any data to tell him when he
ought to leave the creek.

Cuffy solved the problem for him. The St. Bernard stopped, refused
the trail Beresford and Morse were beating down in the deep snow. He
raised his head, seemed to scent a haven, whined, and tried to plunge
to the left.

McRae came forward and shouted to his friends. "We'll gi'e Cuffy his
head. He'll maybe ken mair than we do the nicht."

The trail-breakers turned from the creek, occasionally stopping to
make sure Cuffy was satisfied. Through heavy brush they forced a way
into a coulée. The St. Bernard led them plump against the wall of a
cabin.

There was a light inside, the fitful, leaping glow of fire flames.
The men stumbled through drifts to the door, McRae in the lead. The
Scotchman found the latch and flung open the door. The other two
followed him inside.

The room was empty.

At first they could not believe their eyes. It was not reasonable to
suppose that any sane human beings would have left a comfortable house
to face such a storm. But this was just what they must have done. The
state of the fire, which was dying down to hot coals, told them it had
not been replenished for hours. West and Whaley clearly had decided
they were not safe here and had set out for another hiding-place.

The men looked at each other in blank silence. The same thought was
in the mind of all. For the present they must give up the pursuit.
It would not be possible to try to carry on any farther in such
a blizzard. Yet the younger men waited for McRae to come to his
decision. If he called on them to do more, they would make a try with
him.

"We'll stay here," Angus said quietly. "Build up the fire, lads, and
we'll cast back for Onistah."

Neither of the others spoke. They knew it must have cost the Scotchman
a pang to give up even for the night. He had done it only because he
recognized that he had no right to sacrifice all their lives in vain.

The dogs took the back trail reluctantly. The sled had been unloaded
and was lighter. Moreover, they followed a trail already broken except
where the sweep of the wind had filled it up. McRae cheered them to
their work.

"Up wi' ye, Koona! Guid dog. Cha, cha! You'll be doin' gran' work,
Cuffy. Marché!"

Morse stumbled over Onistah where he lay in the trail. The Blackfoot
was still conscious, though he was drowsing into that sleep which is
fatal to Arctic travelers caught in a blizzard. He had crawled on
hands and feet through the snow after his knees failed him. It must
have been only a few minutes after he completely collapsed that they
found him.

He was given a gulp or two of whiskey and put on the sled. Again the
dogs buckled to the pull. A quarter of an hour later the party reached
the cabin.

Onistah was given first aid. Feet and face were rubbed with snow to
restore circulation and to prevent frost-bite. He had been rescued in
time to save him from any permanent ill effects.

In the back of all their minds lay a haunting fear. What had become
of Jessie? There was a chance that the blizzard had caught the party
before it reached its destination. Neither West nor Whaley was an
inexperienced musher. They knew the difficulties of sub-Arctic travel
and how to cope with them. But the storm had blown up with unusual
swiftness.

Even if the party had reached safety, the girl's troubles were not
ended. With the coming of darkness her peril would increase. As long
as Whaley was with West there was hope. The gambler was cold-blooded
as a fish, but he had the saving sense of sanity. If he meant to
return to Faraway--and there was no reason why he should not--he dared
not let any harm befall the girl. But West was a ruffian unmitigated.
His ruthless passion might drive him to any evil.

In front of the fire they discussed probabilities. Where had the two
free traders taken the girl? Not far, in the face of such a storm.
They canvassed places likely to serve as retreats for West.

Once McRae, speaking out of his tortured heart, made an indirect
reference to what all of them were thinking. He was looking somberly
into the fire as he spoke.

"Yea, the darkness hideth not from Thee, but the night shineth as the
day: the darkness and the light are both alike to Thee."

He found in his religion a stay and comfort. If he knew that under
cover of darkness evil men do evil deeds, he could reassure himself
with the promise that the hairs of his daughter's head were numbered
and that she was under divine protection.

From a pocket next his shirt he drew a small package in oilskin. It
was a Bible he had carried many years. By the light of the leaping
flames he read a chapter from the New Testament and the twenty-third
Psalm, after which the storm-bound men knelt while he prayed that God
would guard and keep safe "the wee lamb lost in the tempest far frae
the fold."

Morse and Beresford were tough as hickory withes. None in the North
woods had more iron in the blood than they. Emergencies had tested
them time and again. But neither of them was ashamed to kneel with the
big rugged Scotchman while he poured his heart out in a petition for
his lass. Alcoholic drinks were already in the ancient times when many
people know this, but only in the 8th Century won by the distillation
of wine a S. In the northern countries had until the end of the
18th Century of grain spirits alone dominantly.

The first experiments with potatoes 1775 in Sweden seem to have
been employed, and 1796 was in Franconia potato spirits obtained.

Gained importance potato distillery but only since 1810, and 20
years later, the potato in Germany, the main material for brandy
production.

Due to the potato disease once again turned to the more grain, but also
maize, molasses and sugar beet to. For processing of the potato gave
the elder and the younger Siemens 1818 and 1840 to appropriate equipment.
The old Destillierblasen were much improved, by direct steam heated
(Gall 1829), etc. Compound stills constructed Adam and Solimani in Nîmes
(1801), Pistorius (1816), Cellier-Blumenthal and Derosne (1818),
Dorn (1819), Black ( 1833), Siemens (1850), etc.

The 1790 by Lowitz discovered property of coal, the fusel oil to absorb,
was quickly into the practice. The latest advances relate to the
depth of the material by digesting tense fumes and grinding equipment
before mashing (Holle friend, Bohm, Henze), namely, the spirit but
also manufacturing by scientific studies on the fermentation
process, the diet of yeast and by improving the analytical methods
have been promoted .

The laboratory and experimental station of the German
industrialist spirit in Berlin has significantly contributed to the
alcohol production, a scientifically substantiated basis. See Stammer,
The brandy distillery and its addition to classes (Braunschw. 1875);
same, signpost in the distillery (das 1876); Maercker, Handbook of
alcohol production (4th edition, Berl. 1886); Böhm, brandy distillery
Client (9.

Resolution ., das 1885); Gumbinner, Guide to Spirit fabrication (das
1882); Bersch, The Spirit and fabrication Preßhefebereitung (das 1881);
Ulbricht and Wagner, Handbook of alcohol production (Weim. 1888),
Free Life, The Brennereibau (Berl. 1885), "Journal of Alcohol
Industry" (das).

Spiritus familiaris (neulat.), a trusted servants spirit, spirit
house. Spirochaete Ehrb., formerly genus of fungi slit whose alleged
species such as the closely related Spirillen as Entwickelungsformen
of bacteria are detected . Spirometer (Greek), of Hutchinson declared
apparatus, which is used to indicate the quantum of air to determine
what breathing from the lungs escapes.

The S. agrees in principle with the ordinary gasometers (sd) are identical.
Through a hose under the bell of the gasometer led exhaled air
lifts the counterweight equilibrate bell and can be connected directly
to a scale. Spirre, s. inflorescence, p. 82 Spirsäure, s. salicylic
acid. Spital (lat., Spittel) , SVW Hospital. hospital, a market town
in Austria. Duchy of Carinthia, on the Drava river and the railway
Marburg Fortezza, is the seat of a Bezirkshauptmannschaft and one
District Court, has a castle of the princes Porzia, wood pulp and
manufacturing (1880) 1832 inhab. Spitalfields (Lang spittelfihlds),
O. district in London, in which the immigrant from France established
Huguenot silk weavers, whose descendants still partially now live
there.

Spithead (Lang spitt-hedder), s. Portsmouth. Spitta, Karl Johann
Philipp, spiritual songs poet, born 1. Aug. 1801 to Hanover, he studied
theology at Göttingen and became, after he held several other
positions had, 1853 to Superintendent in Peine HILDESHEIM, then
superintendent in July 1859 in Burgdorf, where he was 28th D.

Sept. J. died. Besides individual sermons, he published: "psaltery
and harp" (Leipz. 1833 and more), a numerous collection of sacred
obligations widespread, for domestic construction of certain songs,
by completing the form, and intimacy truly Christian character to
the best of such products include Neuzeit.

Yet published of him, "diminished spiritual songs" (5th edition, Brem.
1883).

Spittas life Münkel described (Leipz. 1861). - His son, Philip,
date of birth 27 Dec. 1841 to Wechold at Hoya in Hanover, since 1875
professor of music history at the College of Music (since 1882 the
Deputy Director) and Professor of Music University of Science and
secretary of the Academy of Arts in Berlin, has through his biography
"Johann Sebastian Bach" (Leipz. 1873-79, 2 vols; Eng., Lond. 1884)
and by a complete edition of Buxtehude's organ works and the works
of H.

Schütz advertised. Minor writings by him are: "About JS Bach" (Leipz.
1879) and "Living Image Robert Schumann" (das 1882).

With Chrysander Adler and since 1885 he is the "Vierteljahrschrift for
Musicology" (Leipz.) out. Spittler, Ludwig Timotheus, Freiherr von,
famous historian and publicist, born 11th Nov 1752 at Stuttgart, was
dedicated in Tübingen and Göttingen theological and historical
studies, was at the 1778 Repetent theological seminar in Tübingen
and 1779 professor of philosophy at Göttingen, where he worked as
a teacher of history acquired great reputation, but returned in
1797 as President of the Upper management study and Real Secret
Council in his homeland back in 1806 he was also curator of the
University of Tübingen, and appointed ministers and at the same
time Baron raised.

He died 14th March 1810. From his writings are to be noted: "History
of canon law until the times of the false Isidore" (Hall 1778), "ground
the history of the Christian Church" (Götting. 1782; 5th edition
of Planck, 1813), "History Württemberg under the Counts and Dukes'
(das 1783), "History of the Principality of Hanover" (das 1786),
"draft of the history of European states" (Berl. 1793, 2 vols, 3rd
edition by Sartorius, 1823 ), "History of the Danish Revolution
1660" (das 1796).

His witty outlined "Lectures on the history of the papacy have been
annotated by Gurlitt (Hamb. 1828), his" History of the Crusades "(das
1827) and the" History of the hierarch of Gregory VII to the time
of the Reformation " 169 Spitzbergen - lace. by K. Müller (das 1828)
was issued. All his works, his son K. v. Guardian (Stuttg.
1827-37, 15 vols) published. P. combined with a serious source
of research and philosophical spirit luminous meaningful representation
with richer soon, bright view of political and security of the ruling.
See Planck, as a historian than P.

(Götting. 1811).

Spitsbergen, island group in the Arctic Ocean, between 76 ° 27'-80 ° 50
'north and 10 ° Br -321 / 2 ° östl L. v. Gr., northeast of Greenland,
where it was previously assigned, during the 1868 Nordenskjöld
undersea connection with S.

Scandinavia thinking.

The group consists of the main island, West Spitsbergen (39540 sq. km
or 718 QM), of the past through the Northeast Hinlopenstraße separate
land (10460 sq. km or 190 QM), the Edgeland or Stans Foreland (5720
sq. km or 104 QM), the Barentsinsel, King Charles Land, Prince
Charles Foreland and many small islets, which represent a total
area of 70,068 sq km (1273 QM) are taking.

The island group is in the summer surrounded by ice floes in the winter
of solid ice shelves included, only along the west coast of the sea
is almost year-round ice-free. The north coast is in most years due
to the Gulf Stream passing its relatively early stage of drift free,
while the east side of a polar stream is coated.

The main islands with steep banks rising from the sea and are on the
inside with a 100 m thick layer of land cover from which sharp peaks
(hence the name) up to 1390 m jut.

The granite is Hauptgebirgsart; of volcanic products is the so-called.
Hyperit before, along with Jura limestone, chalk and other
Sedimentärgebilde.

The average annual temperature is below 79 ° 53 'north Br (Mosselbai)
-9.56 ° C., that of the coldest month (February), -22.69 °, the day
of July +4,55 °. The climate is much milder than in North America,
far southern latitudes, which is attributable to the Gulf Stream.
The vegetation is very poor, because the earth crust only during
a few weeks in the summer where the sun never goes down, ice and
snow free, from tree-like plants are found only two customs some
high pasture species.

About one has 96 main types of phanerogams and about 250 Kryptogamen
observed. Kruciferen and Gramineen dominate. Flowing water is only
available at the time of snow melt. From land mammals: the Renntier
(very numerous), the polar bear, brown bear (?, Rarely), blue fox, not
a Lemming, while the coasts are rich in walruses and seals. W. In
the past there were many whales, whose numbers, however, by the constant
pursuit of a fallen low. Now you hunt on the coast alongside the
Flossenfüßern especially the white fish and a Haifischart (Haakjärring).
Of birds known for 28 species, of which the ptarmigan (Lagopus
hyperboreus) is the only state bird is. An insect has been discovered
so far 23 species.

The mineral kingdom has granite (rich in precious grenades), graphite,
galena, iron, marble and brown coals. Onlyborn or just has no
resident population of the islands, but are sometimes single Russian
hunters for several years on the same pursuit, and during the summer
months they will be visited by Fangfischern, although not as numerous
as before.

In the 17th and 18 Century was the group of all whale catcher assembly,
and on the coasts have been the privilege of fishing for whale
and seal the gap between British, Dutch, Danes and Frenchmen often
bloody struggles ausgefochten.

Now none of the seafaring nations claim to ownership of the group.
S. 1596 was by the Dutch Barents, Heemskerk and Cornelis Ryp discovered.
Closer to the islands were explored in recent times among others
by Scoresby (1817-18), Parry (1827), the Research Expedition (1838
ff), Lamont (1858 and later), Karlsen (since 1859), v. Heuglin ( 1870),
Tobiesen (since 1865), Leigh Smith (1871-72), but especially by
the Swedish expedition under Torell and Nordenskjöld (1858-73).

S. Card "Arctic countries." See, besides the reports in "Peter's
Messages: Nordenskjöld, Swedish expeditions to S. and Bear Island
(Jena 1869); Heuglin, trips to the Arctic Ocean 1870-71 (Braunschw.
1872-74, 3 vols).

Spitz bag , s. filtration, p. 263 Spitz flower, see Ardisia. ogival,
s. arch and vault. ogival style, inaccurate designation for the
Gothic style, see architecture, p. 496 tip, in heraldry, see Herold
figures.

Spitz Eder , Adele, s. Dachauer banks. spies in Süddeutschland SVW
secret policeman. spies, card game, a kind of solo at three, is
played with some variations. Is required, a Pikett map from which you
1) everything Karo (ref. clamps) to the Seven and 2) the Coeur-(red)
Eight removed.

So for every 8 leaves. You play either in color or the poor in "Kouleur"
(diamond). The permanent assets: Spadille, Manille, Baste apply
as in the usual solo in Kouleur there's only 3 trumps. For winning a
game are at least 5 stitches. If all match, then "gespitzelt" (
"gestichelt"), that you play without trumps, and the one who makes
the last trick loses.

It is this characteristic of the game rule, but often with no card or a
throw-game points replaced.

In the latter case, one counts the cards to tens of Daus down the
series after 5, 4, 3, 2 and 1 Everyone is looking for as much points
as possible.

Anyone who has over 15 will receive from any surplus be paid, and who
has the fewest eyes, will be required to pay both, even if the
second does not come to 15.

Tips (edges), delicate braids with a transparent base and an
underlying thread of dense pattern formed, either with lace (pillow
lace, Dentelles) or with the needle (Points) are manufactured.

For one of Lacemaking needed cushion (Klöppel Sacks), which in the
Erzgebirge and cylindrical rotatable, in Belgium and France square
and flat, is curved, whereas in the sack, the clapper letter, a
strip of paper on which the pattern is evident needle stitches.

The clappers are about 10 cm long wooden sticks on which to twine
wrapped manufacturing (and in the Erzgebirge by a paper sleeve
übergeschobene protected) is the pattern of holes briefs when working
with needles and threads besteckt by Herwerfen outward and the
bobbin, which the roll or droop on the Belgian pillows are interwoven
between the needles.

To the extent that the work progresses, are removed from the finished
top off the needles and into the holes of the following open letter
inserted. Ellen is the top product, it may work at any of the rotating
roller 170 tips - tip jar. Often go around. P. are either sewn on a
fabric, tulle, Marly, etc., or one for this purpose with the bobbin or
the needle tip manufactured sewn reason. The pattern is on a sheet
of strong paper (parchment earlier) drawn, the needle follows the
contours and umschnürt sake of fixing it again.

If the pattern is complete, so the paper is torn away.

With even more, both as a plastic heraustretenden broad outline is
distinguished from the Guipurespitze; Guipure is a thicker thread
or a thin strip of parchment paper or card, with which the thread
is quite umwunden.

Since the beginning of our century, in addition to the hand tip of
the manufacturing industry on p. machines, so you probably hand
tips (real) machines and tips (False) differs.

If now it is clear that the marginal machine is a great diversity
in their products and an amazing resemblance to the real to generate
P., so take the machine in terms of peak shift and beautiful design
of the product but only a second place, because they only imitations
of the hand are tops.

When the applied P. geklöppelte the patterns on fine machine sewn reason,
among tamburierten the reason, and partly also the pattern generated
from the machine and the Supplementary executed by hand.

After the material distinction is silken S., specifically Blonden,
which appear black and white, canvas pages (all real p.), cotton
(the English lace machines) and wool (mohair lace).

The production of P. mag in a very early time back, but its origin
is unknown.

Perhaps it developed from wicker and Knüpfwerk, which in the old
tradition of home-based industries including the southern countries
still occur, and later with the needle on a perforated base has
been transferred.

In Italy, around the middle of the 15th Century evidence already
made needle lace, and it specifies that there the art of Byzantium
or the Saracen Sicily had come.

There are Reticellaspitzen (sd), or Venetian lace Relief (sd), Rose
spikes (sd), etc.

The word is Lace Richard III at the time., and 1545 in France Dentelles
mentioned. Aging seems to lace in the Netherlands to be, but there
is also no specific certificates. In Germany, this industry by Barbara
v.

Elterlein (coming from Nuremberg) introduced the 1553 as the wife of
Mr.

Berg Uttmann to Annaberg in Saxony died.

The old Italian needle lace were particularly in Venice and Milan
produced in Genoa and was Albissola geklöppelt.

In the 17th Century, the peak industry by the Venetians Vinciolo
to France, and some cities, such as Sedan, Alençon, were soon famous
as the same seats, especially since Louis XIV they vividly beneficiary.

Alençon P. will be working with the needle, and the fabrication,
which repeats the near extinction, was brought up repeatedly, most
recently by Napoleon III.

Argentan, Chantilly, Valenciennes, Lille is also famous p. delivered
in the Netherlands developed the bobbin work very lively and
can be still considered a major factor of national wealth to be in
Belgium.

The Brussels P. are in all respects the finest of all their benefits
are justified by the goodness of the Belgian flax, the fineness
of the lessons from this twines and the inherited skills of workers.
The basic network (réseau) P. Brussels is now delivered by the machine
(Bobbinet), whereas it previously sewed or klöppelte. Mechelen P. in a
piece on the cushion and have worked according to the type of flatfish
Stichs eingewirkte floret. Andre seats tip of the Belgian industry,
Ghent and Bruges (Duchesse de points). Hugenottenplatz learned
from the Dutch finer line peaks, but there was this industry did not
contribute to the meaning as in the southern provinces.

In the Erzgebirge the lace spread very quickly, and since the beginning
of the 17th Century Scottish merchants were the Saxon and Bohemian p.
in all countries. Since the introduction of machine work, just this
once so flourishing industry suffered greatly because they are generally
simple to restricted products, which are very easily imitated by
machines were working. Now, in the Erzgebirge (another sd) and in
a variety of S.

Bohemia presented, and to uplift the industry seek to numerous schools
Klöppel (Schneeberg, green lanes, Bleistadt etc.). Also in
Hirschberger district since 1855 is the peak industry has been
introduced.

In many other areas of Germany as well as in Geneva and Neuchâtel
Hugenottenplatz blossomed through the same, but only a short time.
French and Dutch refugees in England were also the founders of the
tip fabrication.

First fact annoyed you vorzüglich Valenciennes and Brussels after p.,
currently all sorts of styles are maintained.

Honiton in Devon Shire is working with the needle on the Brussels
reason, primarily branches with leaves and flowers, which are now
mostly in Guipure executed.

The machines work, the Spitzenmacherei extraordinarily damaging, it
will work fine in unlimited quantity at reasonable prices out, but
is smooth and regular work of the delicate execution of the harmful
effects, and never can it with the hand-made masterpieces to compete.

Spanish P. from gold and silver wire, with colorful silk and pearls
untermischt is small.

In the Scandinavian and Slavic countries are mostly coarse linen and
Litzenspitzen produced in Russia, Transylvania, Romania including
the home industry.

See Palliser, History of lace (3rd edition, Lond. 1875); Séguin, La
Dentelles. Histoire, description, fabrication, bibliography (para 1874);
Ilg, history and terminology of the old S.

(Vienna 1876), Hans Sibmacher, embroidery and pattern book (after
the edition of 1597 ed.

By the Austrian Museum for Art and Industry, 3rd edition, das 1882, and
Wasmuth, Berl. 1885, after the 4th Out of 1604 ed.

Georges, das 1874), William Hoffmann, lace pattern book (after the
edition of 1607 ed. by the Austrian Museum, Vienna 1876); same,
original embroidery design of the Renaissance (das 1874); v.

Braunmühl, technology and development of the peaks ( in the magazine
"Arts and Crafts," Nuremberg. 1882); Raßmussen, Klöppel Book
(Kopenh. 1884); Jamnig u.

Richter, technology geklöppelten tip (Vienna 1886 ff). Cocheris also
gave in Paris a number of rare books from top model of the Bibliothèque
Mazarin Eitelberger and 50 sheets of the most beautiful designs
from German and Italian pattern books of the 16th Century (Vienna
1874) out.

Top glass, glass filament SVW, s. Millefiori. 171 top reason -
shrews. Top reason to see spikes.

Spitzenkatarrh, catarrh of the lungs peaks. Tip paper, by pressing
and knocking out spitze similarly designed paper that serves special
cuffs for Bouketts . cutting tip, in heraldry, see Herold figures.
Spitzer, Daniel, Wiener columnist, born 3rd July 1835 at Vienna,
studied daselbst rights, was a short time as Konzipist with the
Vienna Chamber of Commerce employs literature and began his career
with economic articles and contributions for the joke leaves Vienna.

His satirical essays, which he from 1865 to as the "Vienna Walks"
in the "Neue Freie Presse" began to publish, were exceptional and
justified his participation reputation.

Part of this at the political and social literature, or main
events of the day was related sketches under the title: "Vienna
Walks" (6 vols, multiple open) collected published.

The novels: "The Mr.

Right" (Vienna 1877) and "lovers Wagnerians" (das 1878), which also
experienced numerous conditions, are also only as satire, not as
identifying real stories, to their success, the spicy-lascivious
elements in any case share as much as the humor. plantar flexion,
s. drawback.

Spitz Gang, see Mills, S. Spitz 849th floor, SVW long story, see story.
Spitz harp, harp s.. Spitz stallion (stallion knock), male horse,
in which one or both testicles not descended into the scrotum, but
in the abdominal cavity and not to reach full development. The
Castration of the stallion Spitz is not without risk, but succeeds
in skillful execution often.

The view that the P. greater facility for malignancy was as stallions
with normal testes, based on error.

Chipmunks Spitz (Tupaiidae), s. insectivores. Spitz box, see Preparation,
p. 53 Spitzkeimer, s. Monokotyledonen. Klette Spitz, s. Xanthium. Spitz
bullets, projectiles pulled handguns with a conical tip. Lerche
Spitz, s. Pieper.

Spitz mice (Apionem Producti), beetle species belonging to the group
of Kryptopentameren and the family of weevils (Curculionina), very
small, Birnförmige Käferchen with thin, filamentary trunk, thin,
not geknieten sensors, forming an oval and pointed knob end spot
and sign a shorter or longer wing covers, which completely cover
the abdomen.

It knows about 300 species which vividly flying in the sunshine and
flowers and young leaves of various plants benagen. The larvae live
mostly in the seeds of legumes, rare in the Mark of Krautstengeln.
Since he
had become a Christian, the Blackfoot, with the simplicity of a mind
not used to the complexities of modern life, accepted the words of
Jesus literally. He would not take a human life to save his own.

She blamed herself for escaping at his expense. The right thing would
have been to send him back again for her father. But West had become
such a horrible obsession with her that the sight of him even at a
distance had put her in a panic.

From the end of the lake she followed the trail Onistah had made. It
took into the woods, veering sharply to the right. The timber was
open. Even where the snow was deep, the crust was firm enough to hold.

In her anxiety it seemed that hours passed. The sun was still fairly
high, but she knew how quickly it sank these winter days.

She skirted a morass, climbed a long hill, and saw before her another
lake. On the shore was a camp. A fire was burning, and over this a man
stooping.

At the sound of her call, the man looked up. He rose and began to run
toward her. She snowshoed down the hill, a little blindly, for the
mist of glad tears brimmed her eyes.

Straight into Beresford's arms she went. Safe at last, she began to
cry. The soldier petted her, with gentle words of comfort.

"It's all right now, little girl. All over with. Your father's here.
See! He's coming. We'll not let anything harm you."

McRae took the girl into his arms and held her tight. His rugged face
was twisted with emotion. A dam of ice melted in his heart. The voice
with which he spoke, broken with feeling, betrayed how greatly he was
shaken.

"My bairn! My wee dawtie! To God be the thanks."

She clung to him, trying to control her sobs. He stroked her hair and
kissed her, murmuring Gaelic words of endearment. A thought pierced
him, like a sword-thrust.

He held her at arm's length, a fierce anxiety in his haggard face. "Is
a' well wi' you, lass?" he asked, almost harshly.

She understood his question. Her level eyes met his. They held no
reservations of shame. "All's well with me, Father. Mr. Whaley was
there the whole time. He stood out against West. He was my friend."
She stopped, enough said.

"The Lord be thankit," he repeated again, devoutly.

Tom Morse, rifle in hand, had come from the edge of the woods and was
standing near. He had heard her first call, had seen her go to the
arms of Beresford direct as a hurt child to those of its mother, and
he had drawn reasonable conclusions from that. For under stress
the heart reveals itself, he argued, and she had turned simply and
instinctively to the man she loved. He stood now outside the group,
silent. Inside him too a river of ice had melted. His haunted, sunken
eyes told the suffering he had endured. The feeling that flooded him
was deeper than joy. She had been dead and was alive again. She had
been lost and was found.

"Where have you been?" asked Beresford. "We've been looking for days."

"In a cabin on Bull Creek. Mr. Whaley took me there, but West
followed."

"How did you get away?"

"We were out of food. They went hunting. West took my snowshoes.
Onistah came. He saw them coming back and gave me his shoes. He went
and hid in the woods. But they'll see his tracks. They'll find him. We
must hurry back."

"Yes," agreed McRae. "I'm thinkin' if West finds the lad, he'll do him
ill."

Morse spoke for the first time, his voice dry as a chip. "We'd better
hurry on, Beresford and I. You and Miss McRae can bring the sled."

McRae hesitated, but assented. There might be desperate need of haste.
"That'll be the best way. But you'll be carefu', lad. Yon West's a
wolf. He'd as lief kill ye baith as look at ye."

The younger men were out of sight over the brow of the hill long
before McRae and Jessie had the dogs harnessed.

"You'll ride, lass," the father announced.

She demurred. "We can go faster if I walk. Let me drive. Then you can
break trail where the snow's soft."

"No. You'll ride, my dear. There's nae sic a hurry. The lads'll do
what's to be done. On wi' ye."

Jessie got into the cariole and was bundled up to the tip of the nose
with buffalo robes, the capote of her own fur being drawn over the
head and face. For riding in the sub-Arctic winter is a freezing
business.

"Marché,"[6] ordered McRae.

[Footnote: Most of the dogs of the North were trained by trappers
who talked French and gave commands in that language. Hence even
the Anglo-Saxon drivers used in driving a good many words of that
language. (W.M.R.)]

Cuffy led the dogs up the hill, following the trail already broken.
The train made good time, but to Jessie it seemed to crawl. She was
tortured with anxiety for Onistah. An express could not have carried
her fast enough. It was small comfort to tell herself that Onistah was
a Blackfoot and knew every ruse of the woods. His tracks would lead
straight to him and the veriest child could follow them. Nor could she
persuade herself that Whaley would stand between him and West's anger.
To the gambler Onistah was only a nitchie.

The train passed out of the woods to the shore of the lake. Here the
going was better. The sun was down and the snow-crust held dogs and
sled. A hundred fifty yards from the cabin McRae pulled up the team.
He moved forward and examined the snow.

With a heave Jessie flung aside the robes that wrapped her and jumped
from the cariole. An invisible hand seemed to clutch tightly at her
throat. For what she and her father had seen were crimson splashes
in the white. Some one or something had been killed or wounded here.
Onistah, of course! He must have changed his mind, tried to follow
her, and been shot by West as he was crossing the lake.

She groaned, her heart heavy.

McRae offered comfort. "He'll likely be only wounded. The lads wouldna
hae moved him yet if he'd no' been livin'."

The train moved forward, Jessie running beside Angus.

Morse came to the door. He closed it behind him.

"Onistah?" cried Jessie.

"He's been--hurt. But we were in time. He'll get well."

"West shot him? We saw stains in the snow."

"No. He shot Whaley."

"Whaley?" echoed McRae.

"Yes. Wanted to get rid of him. Thought your daughter was hidden in
the woods here. Afraid, too, that Whaley would give him up to the
North-West Mounted."

"Then Whaley's dead?" the Scotchman asked.

"No. West hadn't time right then to finish the job. Pretty badly hurt,
though. Shot in the side and in the thigh."

"And West?"

"We came too soon. He couldn't finish his deviltry. He lit out over
the hill soon as he saw us."

They went into the house.

Jessie walked straight to where Onistah lay on the balsam boughs and
knelt beside him. Beresford was putting on one of his feet a cloth
soaked in caribou oil.

"What did he do to you?" she cried, a constriction of dread at her
heart.

A ghost of a smile touched the immobile face of the native. "Apache
stuff, he called it."

"But--"

"West burned his feet to make him tell where you were," Beresford told
her gently.

"Oh!" she cried, in horror.

"Good old Onistah. He gamed it out. Wouldn't say a word. West saw us
coming and hit the trail."

"Is he--is he--?"

"He's gone."

"I mean Onistah."

"Suffering to beat the band, but not a whimper out of him. He's not
permanently hurt--be walking around in a week or two."

"You poor boy!" the girl cried softly, and she put her arm under the
Indian's head to lift it to an easier position.

The dumb lips of the Blackfoot did not thank her, but the dark eyes
gave her the gratitude of a heart wholly hers.

All that night the house was a hospital. The country was one where men
had learned to look after hurts without much professional aid. In a
rough way Angus McRae was something of a doctor. He dressed the wounds
of both the injured, using the small medical kit he had brought with
him.

Whaley was a bit of a stoic himself. The philosophy of his class was
to take good fortune or ill undemonstratively. He was lucky to be
alive. Why whine about what must be?

But as the fever grew on him with the lengthening hours, he passed
into delirium. Sometimes he groaned with pain. Again he fell into
disconnected babble of early days. He was back again with his father
and mother, living over his wild and erring youth.

"... Don't tell Mother. I'll square it all right if you keep it from
her.... Rotten run of cards. Ninety-seven dollars. You'll have to
wait, I tell you.... Mother, Mother, if you won't cry like that ..."

McRae used the simple remedies he had. In themselves they were, he
knew, of little value. He must rely on good nursing and the man's
hardy constitution to pull him through.

With Morse and Beresford he discussed the best course to follow. It
was decided that Morse should take Onistah and Jessie back to Faraway
next day and return with a load of provisions. Whaley's fever must run
its period. It was impossible to tell yet whether he would live or
die, but for some days at least it would not be safe to move him.


CHAPTER XXIX

NOT GOING ALONE


"Morse, I've watched ye through four-five days of near-hell. I ken
nane I'd rather tak wi' me as a lone companion on the long traverse.
You're canny an' you're bold. That's why I'm trustin' my lass to your
care. It's a short bit of a trip, an' far as I can see there's nae
danger. But the fear's in me. That's the truth, man. Gie me your word
you'll no' let her oot o' your sight till ye hand her ower to my wife
at Faraway."

Angus clamped a heavy hand on the young man's shoulder. His blue eyes
searched steadily those of the trader.

"I'll not let her twenty yards from me any time. That's a promise,
McRae," the trader said quietly.

Well wrapped from the wind, Onistah sat in the cariole.

Jessie kissed the Scotchman fondly, laughing at him the while. "You're
a goose, Father. I'm all right. You take good care of yourself. That
West might come back here."

"No chance of that. West will never come back except at the end of
a rope. He's headed for the edge of the Barrens, or up that way
somewhere," Beresford said. "And inside of a week I'll be north-bound
on his trail myself."

Jessie was startled, a good deal distressed. "I'd let him go. He'll
meet a bad end somewhere. If he never comes back, as you say he won't,
then he'll not trouble us."

The soldier smiled grimly. "That's not the way of the Mounted. Get the
fellow you're sent after. That's our motto. I've been assigned the job
of bringing in West and I've got to get him."

"You don't mean you're going up there alone to bring back that--that
wolf-man?"

"Oh, no," the trooper answered lightly. "I'll have a Cree along as a
guide."

"A Cree," she scoffed. "What good will he be if you find West? He'll
not help you against him at all."

"Not what he's with me for. I'm not supposed to need any help to bring
back one man."

"It's--it's just suicide to go after him alone," she persisted. "Look
what he did to the guard at the prison, to Mr. Whaley, to Onistah!
He's just awful--hardly human."

"The lad's under orders, lass," McRae told her. "Gin they send him
into the North after West, he'll just have to go. He canna argy-bargy
aboot it."

Jessie gave up, reluctantly.

The little cavalcade started. Morse drove. The girl brought up the
rear.

Her mind was still on the hazard of the journey Beresford must take.
When Morse stopped to rest the dogs for a few moments, she tucked up
Onistah again and recurred to the subject.

"I don't think Win Beresford should go after West alone except for a
Cree guide. The Inspector ought to send another constable with him. Or
two more. If he knew that man--how cruel and savage he is--"

Tom Morse spoke quietly. "He's not going alone. I'll be with him."

She stared. "You?"

"Yes. Sworn in as a deputy constable."

"But--he didn't say you were going when I spoke to him about it a
little while ago."

"He didn't know. I've made up my mind since."

In point of fact he had come to a decision three seconds before he
announced it.

Her soft eyes applauded him. "That'll be fine. His friends won't
worry so much if you're with him. But--of course you know it'll be a
horrible trip--and dangerous."

"No picnic," he admitted.

She continued to look at him, her cheeks flushed and her face vivid.
"You must like Win a lot. Not many men would go."

"We're good friends," Morse answered dryly. "Anyhow, I owe West
something on my own account."

The real reason why he was going he had not given. During the days she
had been lost he had been on the rack of torture. He did not want her
to suffer months of such mental distress while the man she loved was
facing alone the peril of his grim work in the white Arctic desert.

They resumed the journey.

Jessie said no more. She would not mention the subject again probably.
But it would be a great deal in her thoughts. She lived much of the
time inside herself with her own imagination. This had the generosity
and the enthusiasm of youth. She wanted to believe people fine and
good and true. It warmed her to discover unexpected virtues in them.

Mid-afternoon brought them to Faraway. They drove down the main street
of the village to McRae's house while the half-breeds cheered from the
door of the Morse store.

Jessie burst into the big family room where Matapi-Koma sat bulging
out from the only rocking-chair in the North woods.

"Oh, Mother--Mother!" the girl cried, and hugged the Cree woman with
all the ardent young savagery of her nature.

The Indian woman's fat face crinkled to an expansive smile. She had
stalwart sons of her own, but no daughters except this adopted child.
Jessie was very dear to her.

In a dozen sentences the girl poured out her story, the words tumbling
pell-mell over each other in headlong haste.

Matapi-Koma waddled out to the sled. "Onistah stay here," she said,
and beamed on him. "Blackfoot all same Cree to Matapi-Koma when he
friend Jessie. Angus send word nurse him till he well again."

Tom carried the Indian into the house so that his feet would not touch
the ground. Jessie had stayed in to arrange the couch where Fergus
usually slept.

She followed Morse to the door when he left. "We'll have some things
to send back to Father when you go. I'll bring them down to the store
to-morrow morning," she said. "And Mother wants you to come to supper
to-night. Don't you dare say you're too busy."

He smiled at the intimate feminine fierceness of the injunction. The
last few hours had put them on a somewhat different footing. He would
accept such largesse as she was willing to offer. He recognized the
spirit in which it was given. She wanted to show her appreciation of
what he had done for her and was about to do for the man she loved.
Nor would Morse meet her generosity in a churlish spirit.

"I'll be here when the gong rings," he told her heartily.

"Let's see. It's nearly three now. Say five o'clock," she decided.

"At five I'll be knockin' on the door."

She flashed at him a glance both shy and daring. "And I'll open it
before you break through and bring it with you."

The trader went away with a queer warmth in his heart he had not known
for many a day. The facts did not justify this elation, this swift
exhilaration of blood, but to one who has starved for long any food is
grateful.

Jessie flew back into the house. She had a busy two hours before her.
"Mother, Mr. Morse is coming to dinner. What's in the house?"

"Fergus brought a black-tail in yesterday."

"Good. I know what I'll have. But first off, I want a bath. Lots of
hot water, and all foamy with soap. I've got to hurry. You can peel
the potatoes if you like. And fix some of those young onions. They're
nice. And Mother--I'll let you make the biscuits. That's all. I'll do
the rest."

The girl touched a match to the fire that was set in her room. She
brought a tin tub and hot water and towels. Slim and naked she
stood before the roaring logs and reveled in her bath. The sense of
cleanliness was a luxury delicious. When she had dressed herself
from the soles of her feet up in clean clothes, she felt a new and
self-respecting woman.

She did not pay much attention to the psychology of dress, but she
knew that when she had on the pretty plaid that had come from Fort
Benton, and when her heavy black hair was done up just right, she
had twice the sex confidence she felt in old togs. Jessie would have
denied indignantly that she was a coquette. None the less she was
intent on conquest. She wanted this quiet, self-contained American to
like her.

The look she had seen in his red-brown eyes at times tantalized her.
She could not read it. That some current of feeling about her raced
deep in him she divined, but she did not know what it was. He had a
way of letting his steady gaze rest on her disturbingly. What was he
thinking? Did he despise her? Was he, away down out of sight, the kind
of man toward women that West and Whaley were? She wouldn't believe
it. He had never taken an Indian woman to live with him. There was not
even a rumor that he had ever taken an interest in any Cree girl. Of
course she did not like him--not the way she did Win Beresford or even
Onistah--but she was glad he held himself aloof. It would have greatly
disappointed her to learn of any sordid intrigue involving him.

Jessie rolled up her sleeves and put on a big apron. She saw that
the onions and the potatoes were started and the venison ready for
broiling. From a chest of drawers she brought one of the new white
linen tablecloths of which she was inordinately proud. She would not
trust any one but herself to set the table. Morse had come from a good
family. He knew about such things. She was not going to let him go
away thinking Angus McRae's family were barbarians, even though his
wife was a Cree and his children of the half-blood.

On the table she put a glass dish of wild-strawberry jam. In the
summer she had picked the fruit herself, just as she had gathered the
saskatoon berries sprinkled through the pemmican she was going to use
for the rubaboo.


CHAPTER XXX

"M" FOR MORSE


Two in the village bathed that day. The other was Tom Morse. He
discarded his serviceable moccasins, his caribou-skin capote with the
fur on, his moose-skin trousers, and his picturesque blanket shirt.
For these he substituted the ungainly clothes of civilization, a pair
of square-toed boots, a store suit, a white shirt.

This was not the way Faraway dressed for gala occasions, but in
several respects the trader did not choose to follow the habits of the
North. At times he liked to remind himself that he was an American and
not a French half-breed born in the woods.

As he had promised, he was at the McRaes' by the appointed hour.
Jessie opened to his knock.

The girl almost took his breath. He had not realized how attractive
she was. In her rough outdoor costumes she had a certain naïve
boyishness, a very taking quality of vital energy that was sexless.
But in the house dress she was wearing now, Jessie was wholly
feminine. The little face, cameo-fine and clear-cut, the slender body,
willow-straight, had the soft rounded curves that were a joy to the
eye. He had always thought of her as dark, but to his surprise he
found her amazingly fair for one of the métis blood.

A dimpled smile flashed him welcome. "You did come, then?"

"Is it the wrong night? Weren't you expectin' me?" he asked in
pretended alarm.

"I was and I wasn't. It wouldn't have surprised me if you had decided
you were too busy to come."

"Not when Miss Jessie McRae invites me."

"She invited you once before," the girl reminded him.

"Then she asked me because she thought she ought. Is that why I'm
asked this time?"

She laughed. "You mustn't look a gift dinner in the mouth."

They were by this time in the big family room. She relieved him of his
coat. He walked over to the couch upon which Onistah lay.

"How goes it? Tough sleddin'?" he asked.

The bronze face of the Blackfoot was immobile. He must still have been
in great pain from the burnt feet, but he gave no sign of it.

"Onistah find good friends," he answered simply.

Tom looked round the room, and again there came to him the sense of
home. Logs roared and snapped in the great fireplace. The table, set
with the dishes and the plated silver McRae had imported from the
States, stirred in him a pleasure that was almost poignant. The books,
the organ, the quaint old engravings Angus had brought with him when
he crossed the ocean: all of these touched the trader nearly. He was
in exile, living a bachelor life under the most primitive conditions.
The atmosphere of this house penetrated to every fiber of his being.
It filled him with an acute hunger. Here were love and friendly
intercourse and all the daily, homely routine that made life
beautiful.

And here was the girl that he loved, vivid, vital, full of charm. The
swift deftness and grace of her movements enticed him. The inflections
of her warm, young voice set his pulses throbbing as music sometimes
did. An ardent desire of her flooded him. She was the most winsome
creature under heaven--but she was not for him.

Matapi-Koma sat at the head of the table, a smiling and benignant
matron finished in copper. She had on her best dress, a beaded
silk with purple satin trimmings, brought by a Red River cart from
Winnipeg, accompanied with a guarantee from the trader that Queen
Victoria had none better. The guarantee was worth what it was worth,
but Matapi-Koma was satisfied. Never had she seen anything so grand.
That Angus McRae could afford to buy it for her proved him a great
chief.

Jessie waited on the table herself. She set upon it such a dinner as
neither of her guests had eaten in years. Venison broiled to a turn,
juicy, succulent mallard ducks from the cold storage of their larder,
mashed potatoes with gravy, young boiled onions from Whoop-Up,
home-made rubaboo of delicious flavor, hot biscuits and
wild-strawberry jam! And finally, with the tea, a brandy-flavored plum
pudding that an old English lady at Winnipeg had taught Jessie how to
make.

Onistah ate lying on the couch. Afterward, filled to repletion, with
the sense of perfect contentment a good dinner brings, the two young
men stuffed their pipes and puffed strata of smoke toward the log
rafters of the room. Jessie cleared the table, then sat down and
put the last stitches in the gun-case she had been working at
intermittently for a month. It was finished, but she had not till now
stitched the initials into the cloth.

As the swift fingers of the girl flashed back and forth, both men
watched, not too obviously, the profile shadowed by the dark,
abundant, shining hair. The picture of her was an intimate one, but
Tom's tricky imagination tormented him with one of still nearer
personal association. He saw her in his own house, before his own
fireside, a baby clinging to her skirt. Then, resolutely, he put the
mental etching behind him. She loved his friend Beresford, a man out
of a thousand, and of course he loved her. Had he not seen her go
straight to his arms after her horrible experience with West?

Matapi-Koma presently waddled out of the room and they could hear the
clatter of dishes.

"I told her I'd help her wash them if she'd wait," explained Jessie.
"But she'd rather do them now and go to bed. My conscience is clear,
anyhow." She added with a little bubble of laughter, "And I don't have
to do the work. Is that the kind of a conscience you have, Mr. Morse?"

"If I were you my conscience would tell me that I couldn't go and
leave my guests," he answered.

She raked him with a glance of merry derision. "Oh, I know how yours
works. I wouldn't have it for anything. It's an awf'lly bossy one.
It's sending you out to the Barrens with Win Beresford just because
he's your friend."

"Not quite. I have another reason too," he replied.

"Yes, I know. You don't like West. Nobody does. My father doesn't--or
Fergus--or Mr. Whaley--but they're not taking the long trail after him
as you are. You can't get out of it that way."

She had not, of course, hit on the real reason for going that
supplemented his friendship for the constable and he did not intend
that she should.

"It doesn't matter much why I'm going. Anyhow, it'll be good for me.
I'm gettin' soft and fat. After I've been out in the deep snows a
month or so, I'll have taken up my belt a notch or two. It's time I
wrestled with a blizzard an' tried livin' on lean rabbit.[7]"

[Footnote 7: Rabbit is about the poorest meat in the North. It is lean
and stringy, furnishes very little nourishment and not much fat,
and is not a muscle-builder. In a country where, oil and grease
are essentials, such food is not desirable. The Indians ate great
quantities of them. (W.M.R.)]

Her gaze swept his lean, hard, compact body. "Yes, you look soft," she
mocked. "Father said something of that sort when he looked at that
door there you came through."

Tom had been watching her stitching. He offered a comment now,
perhaps, to change the subject. It is embarrassing for a modest man to
talk about himself.

"You're workin' that 'W' upside down," he said.

"Am I? Who said, it was a 'W'?"

"I guessed it might be."

"You're a bad guesser. It's an 'M.' 'M' stands for McRae, doesn't it?"

"Yes, and 'W' for Winthrop," he said with a little flare of boldness.

A touch of soft color flagged her cheeks. "And 'I' for impudence," she
retorted with a smile that robbed the words of offense.

He was careful not to risk outstaying his welcome. After an hour he
rose to go. His good-bye to Matapi-Koma and Onistah was made in the
large living-room.

Jessie followed him to the outside door.

He gave her a word of comfort as he buttoned his coat, "Don't you
worry about Win. I'll keep an eye on him."

"Thank you. And he'll keep one on you, I suppose."

He laughed. That reversal of the case was a new idea to him. The
prettiest girl in the North was not holding her breath till he
returned safely. "I reckon," he said. "We'll team together fine."

"Don't be foolhardy, either of you," she cautioned.

"No," he promised, and held out his hand. "Good-bye, if I don't see
you in the mornin'."

He did not know she was screwing up her courage and had been for half
an hour to do something she had never done before. She plunged at it,
a tide of warm blood beating into her face beneath the tan.

"'M' is for Morse too, and 'T' for Tom," she said.

With the same motion she thrust the gun-case into his hand and him out
of the door.

He stood outside, facing a closed door, the bit of fancy-work in his
mittens. An exultant electric tingle raced through his veins. She had
given him a token of friendship he would cherish all his life.


CHAPTER XXXI

THE LONG TRAIL


For four days Whaley lay between life and death. There were hours when
the vital current in him ebbed so low that McRae thought it was the
beginning of the end. But after the fifth day he began definitely to
mend. His appetite increased. The fever in him abated. The delirium
passed away. Just a week from the time he had been wounded, McRae put
him on the cariole and took him to town over the hard crust of the
snow.

Beresford returned from Fort Edmonton a few hours later, carrying with
him an appointment for Morse as guide and deputy constable.

"Maintiens le droit," said the officer, clapping his friend on the
shoulder. "You're one of us now. A great chance for a short life you've
got. Time for the insurance companies to cancel any policies they may
have on you."

Morse smiled. He was only a deputy, appointed temporarily, but it
pleased him to be chosen even in this capacity as a member of the most
efficient police force in the world. "Maintiens le droit" was the
motto of the Mounted. Tom did not intend that the morale of that body
should suffer through him if he could help it.

Angus McRae had offered his dog-train for the pursuit and Beresford
had promptly accepted. The four dogs of the Scotch trapper were far
and away better than any others that could be picked up in a hurry.
They had stamina, and they were not savage and wolfish like most of
those belonging to the Indians and even to the Hudson's Bay Company.

Supplies for the trip had been gathered by Morse. From the Crees he
had bought two hundred pounds of dried fish for the dogs. Their own
provisions consisted of pemmican, dried caribou meat, flour, salt,
tea, and tobacco.

All Faraway was out to see the start. The travelers would certainly
cover hundreds and perhaps thousands of miles before their return.
Even in that country of wide spaces, where men mushed far when the
rivers and lakes were closed, this was likely to prove an epic trip.

Beresford cracked the long lash and Cuffy leaned forward in the
traces. The tangle of dogs straightened out and began to move. A
French voyageur lifted his throat in a peculiar shout that was half
a bark. Indians and half-breeds snowshoed down the street beside
the sled. At the door of the McRae house stood Angus, his wife, and
daughter.

"God wi' you haith," the trapper called.

Jessie waved a scarf, and Beresford, who had spent the previous
evening with her, threw up a hand in gay greeting.

The calvacade drew to the edge of the woods. Morse looked back. A slim
figure, hardly distinguishable in the distance, still stood in front
of the McRae house fluttering the scarf.

A turn in the trail hid her. Faraway was shut out of view.

For four or five miles the trappers stayed with them. It was rather a
custom of the North to speed travelers on their way in this fashion.
At the edge of the first lake the Indians and half-breeds said
good-bye and turned back.

Morse moved onto the ice and broke trail. The dogs followed in
tandem--Cuffy, Koona, Bull, and Caesar. If, therefore, the last known
by observation, so can the relationship between the average distances
calculated. Likewise, it is the removal of the fixed stars, where
the determination of the annual parallax (sd) has succeeded in
Erdweiten specify.

For now the size of a geographic Erdweite in miles or kilometers
to be found, the parallax of S. known. This can, however, because of
their smallness, not directly by observation of the sun's altitude
at various points of the earth find it provides much more indirect by
using the parallax and distance of the planets Mars and Venus in its
lowest distance from the Earth determined by observation.

Dom. Cassini conducted the first observations of Mars at the time of
his opposition a parallax of 25'', and since the distance of Mars
from the Earth at the time of observation 0.4 of the distance of Earth
from the S. was, it was found that draw the Sonnenparallaxe =
0,4.25''or 10'', a distance of 20700 S. Erdhalbmessern there. Instead
of Mars, you can also Venus in its perigee observed.

The same then returns us to their dark side and is visible only if
they pass the solar disk, if a so-called. "Transit of Venus by S."
takes place. Halley first made (1677) emphasized the importance of
Venus passes for the determination of Sonnenparallaxe attention
and proposed a proper method of observation (1691 and 1716).

Since then, all the passages of Venus (June 9, 1761, June 2, 1769,
8 Dec. 1874 and 6 Dec 1882) with the greatest care has been observed.
From the observations from 1761 and 1769 has the value of the Encke
Sonnenparallaxe to 8.57116 determines''what a distance equal to
24043 S.

Erdhalbmessern or 20682000 geogr. Miles there. Until the early'60s
was this value as the most reliable. A new calculation of Powalky
in which accurate values for the lengths of some observation sites
were used for the Sonnenparallaxe gave the larger value of 8855''.
Newcomb also calculated from observations of Mars at the time of
his opposition, 1862, according to a plan designed by Winneckens
at numerous observatories were employed, the value of 8848''.

Subsequently, bile opposition from observations of the planet Flora,
in October and November 1873, the Earth up to 0.87 solar widths
approached the value calculated in 8873'', almost agree with the
number 8879, which the French Puiseux from observations of the
Venus transit of 1874 has derived.

Leverrier had from the disturbances of Venus''the value of 8.95 is
calculated, and similar values, all greater than the Enckesche are of
Hansen and Delaunay Plana from certain inequalities in the lunar
motion has been found.

Finally, you can also find the Sonnenparallaxe if the speed of
light independent of astronomical observations and identified the
so-called. Lighting equation, ie the time in which the light from
the P. come to earth, or the angle of aberration (see Aberration
of Light) knows.

According to the latest attempts by Newcomb is but the speed of light
in empty space 299860 km, and hence with Nyréns value of the
aberration constants (see Aberration) a Sonnenparallaxe of 8794'',
according to a distance of 149.61 S. Mill km . Since the processing
of all observations of Venus passes in 1874 and 1882 are currently
still not available, so it usually serves Newcombschen value of
8.85 for the''Sonnenparallaxe.

Hereafter, the average distance of 23307 S. Erdhalbmesser = 148670000
km = 20036000 geogr. Miles. The light takes 8 min 18 sec periods for
this path. Since the eccentricity of the Earth about 1 / 60 is, the
perihelion distance in about 1 / 3 million miles shrink to aphelion in
the same enlarged. [Apparent and true size.] In the middle distance
appears Sonnenhalbmesser at an angle of 16 '1.8''or''961.8; that
calculates the true diameter of P. = (961.8) / (8.85) = 108556
Erddurchmessern km = 1387600 = 187000 geogr.

Miles, ie approximately 1 4 / 5 times as large as the diameter of the
moon path. An arch in the middle of the S., to us at an angle
of 1''appears, has a length of 720 km, and even the finest cobwebs
thread a micron masks against 200km. The S. has 11800 times as much
surface and 1279000 times more volume than the Earth, 600 times more
than all the planets combined.

Its mass is 319,500 times the Earth, more than the 700 times the
mass of all planets. The mean density is only 0253, or about 1 /
4 of our planet, ie 1.4 of the water. Since the gravity on the
surface of a celestial body, apart from the effects of centrifugal
force, is proportional to the product of medium density and diameter,
it is the same on p. 108,6.0,253 = 27.5 times larger than ours,
and while a body on the ground 4.9 m in the first second falls, the
event space on the m. p. 135 [interface.]

While applying a moderate magnification the glowing surface of the S.,
the photosphere, appear smooth and uniform, they can be seen by
instruments of great opening with a strong magnifying a clear and quiet
air like covered with bright, in a less bright network grains
embedded.

Already W.

Herschel and has the same perceived as "wrinkles" means, then it has
with Nasmyth willow leaves, but Secchi compared with rice grains. After
29 sun (spots and faculae, rotation). Langley photosphere has a
fleecy cloud-like appearance, but in addition washy like the cloud
formations, there are still many weak spots on a light ground, and under
favorable circumstances to resolve the cloud-like formations in a lot
of small intensely luminous grains that are in a dark medium appear
suspended.

The above-mentioned spots now have the appearance of openings or pores
created by the absence of the white clouds and translucent nodes of
the dark ground, the diameter is clearly perceptible in the 2-4 seconds
of arc.

The bright nodules or grains Secchis exist Langley from accumulations
of small points of light of approximately 1 / 3''diameter.

Janssen has photographs of P. up to a diameter of 30cm and more shows
under the microscope very clearly the nature of the granular
photosphere show. At places where the granular ions are most pronounced,
possess all the elements of a more or less spherical shape, and
the more so the smaller its size.

The diameter of these spheres is very different from a few tenths of
arcseconds to 3 a.m. to 4 p.m.''. The whole surface of the photosphere
appears in a series of more or less rounded, sometimes almost straight,
mostly on large corner-like figures divided, whose size is very
different, often a diameter up to 1 'and also achieved.

While in the interstices of these figures, the individual grains
determined and well limited, although of very different size they
appear in the interior, such as half off, stretched, or convoluted,
yes, most often they are completely gone, to streams of luminous
matter space to do to replace the granular ion taken.

Janssen has this design as photosphärisches network. [Sun spots,
rotation.]

Moreover we noticed on the solar surface even at low magnification
single soon, soon to be standing together in groups darker places,
so called.

Sun spots. These were first exercised in 1610 by Fabricius, 1611 by
Galileo and Scheiner discovered in Ingolstadt. While the former P.
observed with unprotected eyes when they near the horizon, stood, turned
Scheiner first dark colored glasses to blend.

There is also the polarized light in a telescope by reflection and
by then it may again weaken any reflection (Helioskop by Merz ).

Often one can observe the objective sun image by a equatorial on a
white surface designed.

Even now, after we apply the procedure of Warren de la Rue frequently
photography to achieve accurate images of the solar surface, with
its stains, etc. to obtain.

Figure 1 of the table "sun" is the sight of a P.

Rutherfurd of Photography in New York, 23rd Sept. 1870th Besides
sunspots shows the same even after the edge out bright veins, so
called.

Torches, the light shining in silver strips, which are already
Galilei observed.

The sun spots are of very different size, often only visible as
dark spots, so called.

Pores, and often 1000 miles in diameter and more conservative. Schwabe
observed in September 1850 a mark of 30,000 miles in diameter. Large
patches of more than 50''= 4800 miles in diameter are also visible
with the naked eye, when the S. by thin Gewölk or near the horizon
or even a glass berußtes observed, and there are those even before
the invention of the Fernröhre, including the Chinese, few have
been seen.

At the larger spots, there are usually a dark core, the core spot,
sometimes even with dark spots, Dawes' Centra. These seeds are
surrounded by a dull, after the sun shining well-demarcated area
or yard shade (Penumbra), about the gray color of the lunar seas.

But also sometimes reddish staining was observed, including Secchi has
larger spots repeatedly as a reddish veil seen. Not incidentally,
rarely missing the Penumbra, other times re-stain the nucleus.
Immediately the first observers noticed that the sun spots from
the eastern fringes of the P. after the move west, and declared this
movement right through a rotation of S around an axis.

The determination of the duration of the rotation, however, is
difficult, one partly because of the variability, otherwise partly
because of the suitable movement of the spots, which sometimes Laugier
about 100m in the second amount.

Relatively not many spots retain their shape for so long that they can
pursue during several rotations can change a lot from one day to
another part by the shape of their failure (see table, Fig 2),
partly by merging with other tiles so that they not be identified,
others disappear entirely new appear.

The emergence of new groups Fleck in advance is usually indicated
by extensive lit torches at the same point.

Nevertheless, to many spots through multiple rotations observed.
One finds now that a spot about 271 / 2 days after his first
appearance back on the eastern edge shows, and hence, taking
into account the movement of the earth, the true duration of a
rotation of approximately p. 251 / 2 days.

The precise definition but provides patches for the sun near the
equator have a shorter duration than those in higher latitudes.

Spörer for example, was 1.5 ° heliographischer Width 25118 days, but
for 24.6 ° 26216 days.

It this is a movement of spots parallel to the equator.

In addition, but also change the width, it shows the majority of spots
a movement from the equator to the poles after.

Spörer suspected that these movements with winds related to the S..

Following its determination of the rotation period of p. 25234 days,
the sun equator is around 6 ° 57 'tilted to the ecliptic, and the
length of its ascending node is 74 ° 36'; Carrington has 25.38 days,
7 ° 15 'and 73 ° 57 'found.

When the rotation of the spots show the S., the rules of perspective,
according to some regular shape changes: if a stain from the
east from the center of the P. moves, then its extension
parallel to the equator always greater; but he is away from the
center, it will be getting smaller, while its extension perpendicular
to the equator will remain unchanged.

Wilson in Glasgow in 1769 observed a large sunspot that the
Penumbra, the same as in the middle of S. standing, left and right
about the same size before and after but in eccentric position, all
on the fringes of the first side of S. at widest showed.

Wilson came to the view that Penumbra will be formed by the funnel-shaped
downward sloping, only slightly brighter side walls of an opening
in 30 Sun (corona, Protuberanzen etc.).

The light hull of the S., by which we behold the dark core. That the
actual physical sun was dark, had already Dom.

Cassini (1671) asserts, Bode (1776) and later, the Herschel W.
Wilson Chen hypothesis that the dark core of S. First a bit of bright,
cloud-like shell surrounding it, what is the actual spread of light
hull, generally provides input.

Only Kirchhoff (1861) pointed out that the glowing shell of S. impossible
just to the outside light and heat could send that much more the lying
under her cloud-like layer and the solar body itself through a long
pipe and radiation heats and was moved into the annealing should be.

For these reasons, the hypothesis Wilsonsche been abandoned. The sun
spots do not appear at all points of the solar surface in the same
frequency. In essence, they are limited to the zones 10 to 30 °
heliographischer width, the so-called. King zones. Near the equator the
sun itself, they are only sparsely available, and just as they are
rarely found beyond the 35th Latitude. Furthermore, the sun spots
do not equal at all times, often, and it has Schwabe first since
1843 from its 1826 continued observation on a ten-year period the
frequency is closed.

For general recognition came this assertion by including the
discussion of older spot observations by Wolf the 1852nd That was a
mean duration of the period of 11 1 / 9 years, with deviations
from an average of 1 2 / 3 years, about five such periods are again
a major term, the by the level of spot maxima and the depth of the
minima is characterized.

Oddly, the 1852 by Sabine, Gautier and Wolf acknowledged meeting
the sunspot period with those of the disturbances and variations
erdmagnetischen. Later on you even in the appearances of the northern
lights, the rain event, the same storms to identify believed term
also had W.

Herschel a correlation between the frequency of sun spots and the
fertility of each year to recognize believed. See Hahn, On the relations
of the sunspot period meteorological phenomena (Leipz. 1877), Fritz,
The relationship of the sun spots on the magnetic and meteorological
phenomena of the Earth (Haarlem 1878). [And Protuberanzen corona.]
During total solar eclipses will appear before the S.

Moon rings are surrounded by a shiny silver, gleam of light flowing
from the individual, often beautifully curved beams hervorschießen
groups. This is the so-called.

Corona. In addition, but one has even on those occasions peculiar red
rose on a sunny edge formations noticed soon as the mountains or at
the flames p. liable soon as clouds float freely, the Protuberanzen
(see table "sun", Fig 3). Such Protuberanzen of 1733 are already in
Vassenius Gotenburg been observed and mapped, and their precise
studies begin only with the solar eclipse of 8 July 1842, where
Arago, Airy, Schumacher and others perceived it, 1860 they were
already photographed, and 1867 was successful it Rziha in Ragusa
Protuberanz a zehnzölligen during an annular eclipse can be observed.

Finally have Lockyer 1868, Janssen, Huggins and Zöllner methods
to these structures even in full sunshine to watch. As a means to
this is the spectroscope.

The solar spectrum is a continuous spectrum, which many of the dark
(Chen Fraunhofer) lines is interrupted, exactly the same job as
taking the bright lines in the spectra of different metal vapors.
Kirchhoff showed that every glowing gas exclusively from the
radiation Brechbarkeit which weakens it even negative, so that the
bright lines of glowing gas in the dark must be transformed if the
same rays of light meet, which is sufficiently bright to be a
continuous spectrum exists.

So darken the lines of the solar spectrum to explain, we must assume
that the solar atmosphere a shining body wraps, which in itself
is a continuous spectrum.

The Kirchhoff assumption seems likely to be that of a fixed p.
tropfbarflüssigen or, in the highest Glühhitze core is located,
surrounded by an atmosphere of slightly lower temperature. Through the
aforementioned meeting of the Fraunhofer Chen with the bright lines in
the spectra of certain metal fumes is also the presence of the latter
in the solar atmosphere demonstrated, and it has thus found that
sodium, calcium, Baryum, magnesium, iron, chromium, nickel, copper
, zinc, strontium, cadmium, cobalt, hydrogen, manganese, aluminum,
titanium in the solar atmosphere, hydrogen and iron form the steam
Hauptgemengteile.

The sun spots show after Huggins and Secchi same range as the rest
of the sun surface, but the dark lines broad; Secchi concludes that
in them the metallic vapors in the state are of greater density. The
Protuberanzen but show a line spectrum with the main lines of
hydrogen and some iron lines.

Based on the possibility of this entity even in bright sunlight on
the solar disk was observed. Bring namely spectroscope in a greater
number of prisms through which the spectrum of the sunlight so
disturbing is enlarged, that it no longer hides, while the remains
Protuberanz in light of the bright hydrogen lines visible when the
gap opens (Lockyer, Zöllner ).

We know presently that Protuberanzen on the merits of glowing
hydrogen, the masses of various forms, up to 1-3 ', yes, in some
cases up to 4' height (23000 geogr.

Miles) with fast speed (about 20 geogr. Miles in the second) ascends.
Due to the inclination of the upper parts of the Protuberanzen there
is one in the higher layers of the atmosphere prevailing after the
flow Poland kund.

A hull glowing hydrogen gas surrounding the sun throughout the body, in
the spot region of almost 6000 miles, elsewhere only ascending to 1000
miles, the so-called. Chromosphere, especially in the mid-latitude high
standard Hair numerous shows.

The corona finally gives a continuous spectrum with some bright lines,
including a green iron line, which also occurs in the northern range.
Between Protuberanzen torches and is a close relationship, there are
an average of the most beautiful Protuberanzen in the region of
flares, and Secchi assured, yet never a reasonably bright sun flare
on the edge itself is found to have no daselbst also a Protuberanz
or at least a higher collection and 31 Sonneberg - Sonnenberg. a
more luster to the chromosphere.

Spörer keeps Protuberanzen precursor for later appear Fleck groups.
Figure 4-6 on table "sun" shows a number Protuberanzen: Fig. 4 I,
Protuberanz of 2 '(11500 geographer.

Miles) Height 3 clock 45 minutes, II, III, IV andre 35 to 40''
(3400-3800 miles) Height 6 clock 45 min, 55 min and 57 min; Fig. 5
I 2 July 1869, 11 clock 35 minutes, height 65''(6300 miles), II,
4th July, 9 clock, height 40''(3800 miles), III and IV Protuberanz
of 50-60''(4800-5700 miles) altitude 4th July, II clock 50 minutes
and 12 clock 50 minutes [Temperature.]

About the temperature, which on the surface of S. prevails, there are
different views of researchers far apart, while tax collectors from
theoretical considerations about 27,000 ° C. finds has aktinometrischen
Secchi measurements from 5-6 million level as the lower limit is
derived. From such measurements, but the other Pouillet and recently
re Vicaire and Violle only 1500 ° found.

These different results are the consequence of different assumptions for
the heat radiation law, which admittedly we only shape fairly close
temperature within safe limits is known.

Light and heat radiation due to absorption in the solar atmosphere
at the edge is lower than in the middle of the solar disk.

Secchi was the thermal radiation at the edge is only half as large
as in the middle, even more important than at the equator to the
poles.

Langley 1874 has confirmed these earlier observations is found.

The spots radiate less heat than the surrounding solar surface (Henry
1845), but gives himself a key Langley spot even more heat than an
equally large, brightly shining edge pieces. [Theory of the sun.]
According to Kirchhoff view, which of Spörer, Zöllner Others on the
merits has been adopted, there is a p. in the highest Glühhitze's
core, by an atmosphere of lower temperature is surrounded.

The sun spots are clouds, the nucleus stains are deeper denser,
through the courtyards darübergelagerte thinner clouds formed and
fully exploited. Zöllner on the other hand, holds the key spots for
slag masses, based on the torrid sun liquid surface formed by cooling
and are also due to the sun in the atmosphere generated by balance
disorders themselves dissolve. This opinion just the opposite, Faye
thinks the sun is a gaseous mass as a result of its high temperature
in a state of general physical and chemical Dissociation is the body,
which somewhat cooled by surface radiation, chemical compounds can
form, which is immediately under the sink and replaced by new ones,
the light hull or photosphere is therefore in constant recharge
surface diverge. If this shell at a point by ascending currents is
interrupted, or parts of the interior to the surface, where the
chemical (combustion) process is not thätig, we have the sight of
a sunspot.

While in accordance with these and other theories of the P. gradually
colder, has recently William Siemens ( "The conservation of solar
energy, German, Berl. 1885) established a theory to which the energy
of the same S. broadcast consistently re-added. See Faye, Sur la
constitution physique du soleil (in the "Comptes rendus," 1865 et
seq), Secchi, P.

The (German of clamps, Braunschw. 1872), Young, S.

The (Leipz. 1883); shorter Images of rice (das 1869) and Hirsch (Basel
1874).

Sonneberg, district town in the Duchy of Saxony-Meiningen, 3 km long,
tightly wedged between the mountains on the south side of the
Thuringian Forest (the new district is located in the plane), at
the Röth, the branch railway Koburg-S. (Werra Rail) and the secondary
rail S. Lauscha, has a beautiful new church in the Gothic style, a water
treatment, and flourishing industry (1885) 10247 S. inhab. is particularly
famous as the center of the many nearby factory towns where as in the
city even the so-called. Sonneberger toys (made of wood and papier-mâché),
dummies, masks, glass, china and hardware supplied and from there
to the value of 7.5 million annually Mk for all the world to be
sent.

In addition, P. colors, slates, slate pencils, grinding and polishing
stones, leather work, etc. and has breweries, Mass, Loh and cutting
mills and brick huts. S. has a court and a school and is the seat
of a District Office, a forestry department and a consulate of the
United States of America.

See Fleischmann, trade, industry and commerce of my ingericht
chen Highlands (Hildburgh. 1876 et seq.) Sonnefeld, stains in
Saxony-Koburg has an Evangelical
Beresford was still limping doggedly forward. Every step sent
a shoot of pain through him, but he set his teeth and kept moving.

None the less he was glad to see the empty sled. He tumbled on and let
the others do the work.

At camp he scraped the snow away with a shoe while Morse cut spruce
boughs and chopped wood for the fire.

Beresford suffered a good deal from his knee that night. He did not
sleep much, and when day came it was plain he could not travel. The
camp-site was a good one. There was plenty of wood, and the shape of
the draw in which they were located was a protection from the cold
wind. The dogs would be no worse for a day or two of rest. The
travelers decided to remain here as long as might be necessary.

Tom went hunting. He brought back a bag of four ptarmigan late in
the afternoon. Fried, they were delicious. The dogs stood round in
a half-circle and caught the bones tossed to them. Crunch--
crunch--crunch. The bones no longer were. The dogs, heads cocked
on one side, waited expectantly for more tender tidbits.

"Saw deer tracks. To-morrow I'll have a try for one," Morse said.

The lame man hobbled down to the lake next day, broke the ice, and
fished for jack pike. He took back to camp with him all he could
carry.

On the fourth day his knee was so much improved that he was able to
travel slowly. They were glad to see that night the lights of Fort
Desolation, as one of the Mounted had dubbed the post on account of
its loneliness.


CHAPTER XXXIV

THE MAN-HUNTERS READ SIGN


In the white North travelers are few and far. It is impossible for one
to pass through the country without leaving a record of his progress
written on the terrain and in the minds of the natives. The fugitive
did not attempt concealment. He had with him now an Indian guide and
was pushing into the Barren Lands. There was no uncertainty about his
movements. From Fort Chippewayan he had swung to the northwest in the
line of the great frozen lakes, skirting Athabasca and following the
Great Slave River to the lake of the same name. This he crossed at the
narrowest point, about where the river empties into it, and headed for
the eastern extremity of Lake La Martre.

On his heels, still far behind, trod the two pursuers, patient,
dogged, and inexorable. They had left far in the rear the out-forts of
the Mounted and the little settlements of the free traders. Already
they were deep in the Hudson's Bay Company trapping-grounds. Ahead of
them lay the Barrens, stretching to the inlets of the Arctic Ocean.

The days were drawing out and the nights getting shorter. The
untempered sun of the Northland beat down on the cold snow crystals
and reflected a million sparks of light. In that white field the glare
was almost unbearable. Both of them wore smoked glasses, but even with
these their eyes continually smarted. They grew red and swollen. If
time had not been so great an element in their journey, they would
have tried to travel only after sunset. But they could not afford
this. West would keep going as long and as fast as he could.

Each of them dreaded snow-blindness. They knew the sign of it--a
dreadful pain, a smarting of the eyeballs as though hot burning sand
were being flung against them. In camp at night they bathed their
swollen lids and applied a cool and healing salve.

Meanwhile the weeks slipped into months and still they held like
bulldogs to the trail of the man they were after.

The silence of the wide, empty white wastes surrounded them, except
for an occasional word, the whine of a dog, and the slithering crunch
of the sled-runners. From unfriendly frozen deserts they passed,
through eternal stillness, into the snow wilderness that seemed to
stretch forever. When they came to forests, now thinner, smaller, and
less frequent, they welcomed them as they would an old friend.

"He's headin' for Great Bear, looks like," Morse suggested one morning
after an hour in which neither of them had spoken.

"I was wondering when you'd chirp up, Tom," Beresford grinned
cheerfully. "Sometimes I think I'm fed up for life on the hissing of
snowshoe runners. The human voice sure sounds good up here. Yes, Great
Bear Lake. And after that, where?"

"Up the lake, across to the Mackenzie, and down it to the ocean, I'd
say. He's makin' for the whaling waters. Herschel Island maybe. He's
hoping to bump into a whaler and get down on it to 'Frisco."

"Your guess is just as good as any," the Canadian admitted. "He's
cut out a man-sized job for himself. I'll say that for him. It's a
five-to-one bet he never gets through alive, even if we don't nab
him."

"What else can he do? He's got to keep going or be dragged back to be
hanged. I'd travel too if I were in his place."

"So would I. He's certainly hitting her up. Wish he'd break his leg
for a week or two," the constable said airily.

They swung into a dense spruce swamp and jumped up a half-grown bear.
He was so close to them that Tom, who was breaking trail, could see
his little shining eyes. Morse was carrying his rifle, in the hope
that he might see a lynx or a moose. The bear turned to scamper away,
but the intention never became a fact. A bullet crashed through the
head and brought the animal down.

An hour later they reached an Indian camp on the edge of a lake. On
stages, built well up from the ground, drying fish were hanging out of
reach of the dogs. These animals came charging toward the travelers
as usual, lean, bristling, wolfish creatures that never had been
half-tamed.

Beresford lashed them back with the whip. Indians came out from the
huts, matted hair hanging over their eyes. After the usual greetings
and small presents had been made, the man-hunters asked questions.

"Great Bear Lake--wah-he-o-che (how far)?"

The head man opened his eyes. Nobody in his right mind went to the
great water at this time of year. It was maybe fifteen, maybe twenty
days' travel. Who could tell? Were all the fair skins mad? Only three
days since another dog-train had passed through driven by a big shaggy
man who had left them no presents after he had bought fish. Three
whites in as many days, and before that none but voyageur half-breeds
in twice that number of years.

The trooper let out a boyish whoop. "Gaining fast. Only three days
behind him, Tom. If our luck stands up, he'll never reach the Great
Bear."

There was reason back of Beresford's exultant shout. At least one of
West's dogs had bleeding feet. This the stained snow on the trail
told them. Either the big man had no shoes for the animals or was too
careless to use them when needed, the constable had suggested to his
friend.

"It's not carelessness," Morse said. "It's his bullying nature. Likely
he's got the shoes, only he won't put 'em on. He'll beat the poor
brute over the head instead and curse his luck when he breaks down.
He's too bull-headed to be a good driver."

On the fourth day after this they came upon one of the minor tragedies
of sub-Arctic travel. The skeleton of a dog lay beside the trail. Its
bones had been picked clean by its ravenous cannibal companions.

"Three left," Beresford commented. "He'll be figuring on picking up
another when he meets any Indians or Eskimos."

"If he does it won't be any good to work with his train. I believe
we've got him. He isn't twenty-five miles ahead of us right now."

"I'd put it at twenty. In about three days now the fireworks will
begin."

It was the second day after this that they began to notice something
peculiar about the trail they were following. Hitherto it had taken
a straight line, except when the bad terrain had made a détour
advisable. Now it swayed uncertainly, much as a drunken man staggers
down a street.

"What's wrong with him? It can't be liquor. Yet if he's not drunk,
what's got into him?" the soldier asked aloud, expecting no answer
that explained this phenomenon.

Tom shook his head. "See. The Indian's drivin' now. He follows a
straight enough line. You can tell he's at the tail line by the shape
of the webs. And West's still lurchin' along in a crazy way. He fell
down here. Is he sick, d' you reckon?"

"Give it up. Anyhow, he's in trouble. We'll know soon enough what it
is. Before night now we'll maybe see them."

Before they had gone another mile, the trail in the snow showed
another peculiarity. It made a wide half-circle and was heading south
again.

"He's given up. What's that mean? Out of grub, d' you think?"
Beresford asked.

"No. If they had been, he'd have made camp and gone hunting. We
crossed musk-ox sign to-day, you know."

"Righto. Can't be that. He must be sick."

They kept their eyes open. At any moment now they were likely to make
a discovery. Since they were in a country of scrubby brush they moved
cautiously to prevent an ambush. There was just a possibility that the
fugitive might have caught sight of them and be preparing an
unwelcome surprise. But it was a possibility that did not look like a
probability.

"Something gone 'way off in his plans," Morse said after they had
mushed on the south trail for an hour. "Looks like he don't know what
he's doing. Has he gone crazy?"

"Might be that. Men do in this country a lot. We don't know what a
tough time he's been through."

"I'll bet he's bucked blizzards aplenty in the last two months. Notice
one thing. West's trailin' after the guide like a lamb. He's makin' a
sure-enough drunk track. See how the point of his shoe caught the snow
there an' flung him down. The Cree stopped the sled right away so West
could get up. Why did he do that? And why don't West ever stray a foot
outa the path that's broke? That's not like him. He's always boss o'
the outfit--always leadin'."

Beresford was puzzled, too. "I don't get the situation. It's been
pretty nearly a thousand miles that we've been following this
trail--eight hundred, anyhow. All the way Bully West has stamped his
big foot on it as boss. Now he takes second place. The reason's beyond
me."

His friend's mind jumped at a conclusion. "I reckon I know why he's
followin' the straight and narrow path. The guide's got a line round
his waist and West's tied to it."

"Why?"

The sun's rays, reflected from the snow in a blinding, brilliant
glare, smote Morse full in the eyes. For days the white fields had
been very trying to the sight. There had been moments when black spots
had flickered before him, when red-hot sand had been flung against his
eyeballs if he could judge by the burning sensation.

He knew now, in a flash, what was wrong with West.

To Beresford he told it in two words.

The constable slapped his thigh. "Of course. That's the answer."

Night fell, the fugitives still not in sight. The country was so rough
that they might be within a mile or two and yet not be seen.

"Better camp, I reckon," Morse suggested.

"Yes. Here. We'll come up with them to-morrow."

They were treated that evening to an indescribably brilliant
pyrotechnic display in the heavens. An aurora flashed across the sky
such as neither of them had ever seen before. The vault was aglow with
waves of red, violet, and purple that danced and whirled, with fickle,
inconstant flashes of gold and green and yellow bars. A radiant
incandescence of great power lit the arch and flooded it with light
that poured through the cathedral windows of the Most High.

At daybreak they were up. Quickly they breakfasted and loaded. The
trail they followed was before noon a rotten one, due to a sudden rise
in the temperature, but it still bore south steadily.

They reached the camp where West and his guide had spent the night.
Another chapter of the long story of the trail was written here. The
sled and the guide had gone on south, but West had not been with them.
His webs went wandering off at an angle, hesitant and uncertain.
Sometimes they doubled across the track he had already made.

Beresford was breaking trail. His hand shot straight out. In the
distance there was a tiny black speck in the waste of white. It moved.

Even yet the men who had come to bring the law into the Lone Lands did
not relax their vigilance. They knew West's crafty, cunning mind.
This might be a ruse to trap them. When they left the sled and moved
forward, it was with rules ready. The hunters stalked their prey as
they would have done a musk ox. Slowly, noiselessly, they approached.

The figure was that of a huge man. He sat huddled in the snow, his
back to them. Despair was in the droop of the head and the set of the
bowed shoulders.

One of the dogs howled. The big torso straightened instantly. The
shaggy head came up. Bully West was listening intently. He turned and
looked straight at them, but he gave no sign of knowing they were
there. The constable took a step and the hissing of the shoe-runner
sounded.

"I'm watchin' you, Stomak-o-sox," the heavy voice of the convict
growled. "Can't fool me. I see every step you're takin'."

It was an empty boast, almost pathetic in its futility. Morse and
Beresford moved closer, still without speech.

West broke into violent, impotent cursing. "You're there, you damned
wood Cree! Think I don't know? Think I can't see you? Well, I can.
Plain as you can see me. You come here an' get me, or I'll skin you
alive like I done last week. Hear me?"

The voice rose to a scream. It betrayed terror--the horrible deadly
fear of being left alone to perish in the icy wastes of the North.

Beresford crept close and waved a hand in front of the big man's eyes.
West did not know it. He babbled vain and foolish threats at his
guide.

The convict had gone blind--snow-blind, and Stomak-o-sox had left him
alone to make a push for his own life while there was still time.


CHAPTER XXXV

SNOW-BLIND


West grinned up at the officer, his yellow canines showing like
tusks. His matted face was an unlovely sight. In it stark, naked fear
struggled with craftiness and cruelty.

"Good you came back--good for you. I ain't blind. I been foolin' you
all along. Wanted, to try you out. Now we'll mush. Straight for the
big lake. North by west like we been going. Un'erstand, Stomak-o-sox?
I'll not beat yore head off this time, but if you ever try any monkey
tricks with Bully West again--" He let the threat die out in a sound
of grinding teeth.

Beresford spoke. His voice was gentle. Vile though this murderer
was, there was something pitiable in his condition. One cannot see a
Colossus of strength and energy stricken to helplessness without some
sense of compassion.

"It's not Stomak-o-sox. We're two of the North-West Mounted. You're
under arrest for breaking prison and for killing Tim Kelly."

The information stunned West. He stared up out of sightless eyes. So
far as he had known, no member of the Mounted was within five hundred
miles of him. Yet the law had stretched out its long arm to snatch
him back from this Arctic waste after he had traveled nearly fifteen
hundred miles. It was incredible that there could exist such a police
force on earth.

"Got me, did you?" he growled. He added the boast that he could not
keep back. "Well, you'd never 'a' got me if I hadn't gone blind--never
in this world. There ain't any two of yore damned spies could land
Bully West when he's at himself."

"Had breakfast?"

He broke into a string of curses. "No, our grub's runnin' low. That
wood Cree slipped away with all we had. Wish I'd killed him last week
when I skinned him with the dog-whip."

"How long have you been blind?"

"It's been comin' on two-three days. This damned burnin' glare from
the snow. Yesterday they give out completely. I tied myself by a line
to the Injun. Knew I couldn't trust him. After all I done for him
too."

"Did you know he was traveling south with you--had been since
yesterday afternoon?"

"No, was he?" Again West fell into his natural speech of invective.
"When I meet up with him, I'll sure enough fill him full o' slugs," he
concluded savagely.

"You're not likely to meet him again. We've come to take you back to
prison."

Morse brought the train up and the hungry man was fed. They treated
his eyes with the simple remedies the North knows and bound them with
a handkerchief to keep out the fierce light reflected from the snow.

Afterward, they attached him by a line to the driver. He stumbled
along behind. Sometimes he caught his foot or slipped and plunged down
into the snow. Nobody had ever called him a patient man. Whenever any
mishap occurred, he polluted the air with his vile speech.

They made slow progress, for the pace had to be regulated to suit the
prisoner.

Day succeeded day, each with its routine much the same as the one
before. They made breakfast, broke camp, packed, and mushed. The swish
of the runners sounded from morning till night fell. Food began to run
scarce. Once they left the blind man at the camp while they
hunted wood buffalo. It was a long, hard business. They came back
empty-handed after a two-day chase, but less than a mile from camp
they sighted a half-grown polar bear and dropped it before the animal
had a chance to move.

One happy hour they got through the Land of Little Sticks and struck
the forests again.

They had a blazing fire again for the first time in six weeks. Brush
and sticks and logs went into it till it roared furiously.

Morse turned from replenishing it to notice that West had removed the
bandage from his eyes.

"Better keep it on," the young man advised.

"I was changin' it. Too tight. Gives me a headache," the convict
answered sulkily.

"Can you see anything at all yet?"

"Not a thing. Looks to me like I never would."

Tom turned his head for him, so that he faced the blaze squarely. "No
light at all?"

"Nope. Don't reckon I ever will see."

"Maybe you will. I've known' cases of snow-blindness where they
couldn't see for a month an' came out all right."

"Hurts like blazes," growled the big fellow.

"I know. But not as bad as it did, does it? That salve has helped
some."

The two young fellows took care of the man as though he had been a
brother. They bathed his eyes, fed him, guided him, encouraged him. He
was a bad lot--the worst that either of them had known. But he was
in trouble and filled with self-pity. Never ill before, a giant of
strength and energy, his condition now apparently filled him with
despair.

He would sit hunched down before the fire, head bowed in his hands, a
mountain of dole and woe. Sometimes he talked, and he blamed every one
but himself for his condition. He never had had a square deal. Every
one was against him. It was a rotten world. Then he would fall to
cursing God and man.

In some ways he was less trouble than if he had been able to see. He
was helpless and had to trust to them. His safety depended on their
safety. He could not strike at them without injuring himself. No
matter how much he cringed at the thought of being dragged back to
punishment, he shrank still more from the prospect of death in the
snow wastes. The situation galled him. Every decent word he gave them
came grudgingly, and he still snarled and complained and occasionally
bullied as though he had the whip hand.

"A nice specimen of _ursus horribilis_," Beresford murmured to his
companion one day. "Thought he was game, anyhow, but he's a yellow
quitter. Acts as though we were to blame for his blindness and for
what's waiting for him at the end of the journey. I like a man to
stand the gaff when it's prodding him."

Morse nodded. "Look out for him. I've got a notion in the back o' my
head that he's beginning to see again. He'd kill us in a holy minute
if he dared. Only his blindness keeps him from it. What do you say?
Shall we handcuff him nights?"

"Not necessary," the constable said. "He can't see a thing. Watch him
groping for that stick."

"All his brains run to cunning. Don't forget that. Why should he have
to feel so long for that stick? He laid it down himself a minute ago.
Tryin' to slip one over on us maybe."

The Canadian looked at the lean, brown face of his friend and grinned.
"I've a notion our imaginations too are getting a bit jumpy. We've had
one bully time on this trip--with the reverse English. It's all in the
day's work to buck blizzards and starve and freeze, though I wouldn't
be surprised if our systems were pretty well fed up with grief before
we caught Mr. Bully West. Since then--well, you couldn't call him a
cheerful traveling companion, could you? A dozen times a day I want to
rip loose and tell him how much I don't think of him."

"Still--"

"We'll keep an eye on him. If necessary, it'll be the bracelets for
him. I'd hate to have the Inspector send in a report to headquarters,
'Constable Beresford missing in the line of duty.' I've a prejudice
against being shot in the back."

"That's one of the reasons I'm here--to see you're not if I can help
it."

Beresford's boyish face lit up. He understood what his friend meant.
"Say, Faraway isn't New York or London or even Toronto. But how'd you
like to be sitting down to one of Jessie McRae's suppers? A bit of
broiled venison done to a juicy turn, potatoes, turnips, hot biscuits
spread with raspberry jam. By jove, it makes the mouth water."

"And a slice of plum puddin' to top off with," suggested Morse,
bringing his own memory into play. "Don't ask me how I'd like it.
That's a justifiable excuse for murder. Get busy on that rubaboo. Our
guest's howlin' for his dinner."

The faint suspicions of Morse made the officers more wary. They
watched their prisoner a little closer. Neither of them quite believed
that he was recovering his sight. It was merely a possibility to be
guarded against.

But the guess of Morse had been true. It had been a week since flashes
of light had first come to West faintly. He began to distinguish
objects in a hazy way. Every day he could see better. Now he could
tell Morse from Beresford, one dog from another. Give him a few more
days and he would have as good vision as before he had gone blind.

All this he hid cunningly, as a miser does his gold. For his warped,
cruel brain was planning death to these two men. After that, another
plunge into the North for life and freedom.


CHAPTER XXXVI

THE WILD BEAST LEAPS


Tom Morse was chopping wood. He knew how to handle an axe. His strokes
fell sure and strong, with the full circling sweep of the expert.

The young tree crashed down and he began to lop off its branches.
Halfway up the trunk he stopped and raised his head to listen.

No sound had come to him. None came now. But dear as a bell he heard
the voice of Win Beresford calling.

"_Help! Help!_"

It was not a cry that had issued from his friend's throat. Tom knew
that. But it was real. It had sprung out of his dire need from the
heart, perhaps in the one instant of time left him, and it had leaped
silently across space straight to the heart of his friend.

Tom kicked into his snowshoes and began to run. He held the axe in his
hand, gripped near the haft. A couple of hundred yards, perhaps, lay
between him and camp, which was just over the brow of a small hill.
The bushes flew past as he swung to his stride. Never had he skimmed
the crust faster, but his feet seemed to be weighted with lead. Then,
as he topped the rise, he saw the disaster he had dreaded.

The constable was crumpling to the ground, his body slack and inert,
while the giant slashed at him with a dub of firewood he had snatched
from the ground. The upraised arm of the soldier broke the force of
the blow, but Morse guessed by the way the arm fell that the bone had
snapped.

At the sound of the scraping runners, West whirled. He lunged
savagely. Even as Tom ducked, a sharp pain shot through his leg from
the force of the glancing blow. The axe-head swung like a circle of
steel. It struck the convict's fur cap. The fellow went down like an
ox in a slaughter-house.

Tom took one look at him and ran to his friend. Beresford was a sorry
sight. He lay unconscious, head and face battered, the blood from his
wounds staining the snow.

The man-hunters had come into the wilderness prepared for emergencies.
Jessie McRae had prepared a small medicine case as a present for the
constable. Morse ran to the sled and found this. He unrolled bandages
and after he had washed the wounds bound them. As he was about to
examine the arm, he glanced up.

For a fraction of a second West's wolfish eyes glared at him before
they took on again the stare of blindness. The man had moved. He had
hitched himself several yards nearer a rifle which stood propped
against a balsam.

The revolver of the deputy constable came to light. "Stop right where
you're at. Don't take another step."

The convict snarled rage, but he did not move. Some sure instinct
warned him what the cold light in the eyes of his captor meant, that
if he crept one inch farther toward the weapon he would die in his
tracks.

"He--he jumped me," the murderer said hoarsely.

"Liar! You've been shammin' for a week to get a chance at us. I'd like
to gun you now and be done with it."

"Don't." West moistened dry lips. "Honest to God he jumped me. Got mad
at somethin' I said. I wouldn't lie to you, Tom."

Morse kept him covered, circled round him to the rifle, and from there
to the sled. One eye still on the desperado, he searched for the steel
handcuffs. They were gone. He knew instantly that some time within the
past day or two West had got a chance to drop them in the snow.

He found rawhide thongs.

"Lie in the snow, face down," he ordered. "Hands behind you and
crossed at the wrists."

Presently the prisoner was securely tied. Morse fastened him to the
sled and returned to Beresford.

The arm was broken above the wrist, just as he had feared. He set it
as best he could, binding it with splints.

The young officer groaned and opened his eyes. He made a motion to
rise.

"Don't get up," said Morse. "You've been hurt."

"Hurt?" Beresford's puzzled gaze wandered to the prisoner. A flash
of understanding lit it. "He asked me--to light--his pipe--and when
I--turned--he hit--me--with a club," the battered man whispered.

"About how I figured it."

"Afraid--I'm--done--in."

"Not yet, old pal. We'll make a fight for it," the Montanan answered.

"I'm sick." The soldier's head sank down. His eyes closed.

All the splendid, lithe strength of his athletic youth had been beaten
out of him. To Morse it looked as though he were done for. Was it
possible for one to take such a terrific mauling and not succumb? If
he were at a hospital, under the care of expert surgeons and nurses,
with proper food and attention, he might have a chance in a hundred.
But in this Arctic waste, many hundred miles from the nearest doctor,
no food but the coarsest to eat, it would be a miracle if he survived.

The bitter night was drawing in. Morse drove West in front of him to
bring back the wood he had been cutting. He made the man prepare the
rubaboo for their supper. After the convict had eaten, he bound his
hands again and let him lie down in his blankets beside the fire.

Morse did not sleep. He sat beside his friend and watched the fever
mount in him till he was wildly delirious. Such nursing as was
possible he gave.

The prisoner, like a chained wild beast, glowered at him hungrily. Tom
knew that if West found a chance to kill, he would strike. No scruple
would deter him. The fellow was without conscience, driven by the fear
of the fate that drew nearer with every step southward. His safety and
the desire of revenge marched together. Beresford was out of the way.
It would be his companion's turn next.

After a time the great hulk of a man fell asleep and snored
stertorously. But Tom did not sleep. He dared not. He had to keep
vigilant guard to save both his friend's life and his own. For though
West's hands were tied, it would be the work of only a minute to burn
away with a live coal the thongs that bound them.

The night wore away. There was no question of travel. Beresford was
in the grip of a raging fever and could not be moved. Morse made West
chop wood while he stood over him, rifle in hand. They were short of
food and had expected to go hunting next day. The supplies might last
at best six or seven more meals. What was to be done then? Morse could
not go and leave West where he could get at the man who had put him in
prison and with a dog-train to carry him north. Nor could he let West
have a rifle with which to go in search of game.

There were other problems that made the situation impossible. Another
night was at hand, and again Tom must keep awake to save himself and
his friend from the gorilla-man who watched him, gloated over him,
waited for the moment to come when he could safely strike. And after
that there would be other nights--many of them.

What should he do? What could he do? While he sat beside the delirious
officer, Tom pondered that question. On the other side of the fire lay
the prisoner. Triumph--a horrible, cruel, menacing triumph--rode in
his eye and strutted in his straddling walk when he got up. His hour
was coming. It was coming fast.

Once Tom fell asleep for a cat-nap. He caught himself nodding, and
with a jerk flung back his head and himself to wakefulness. In the air
was a burning odor.

Instinct told him what it was. West had been tampering with the
rawhide thongs round his wrists, had been trying to burn them away.

He made sure that the fellow was still fast, then drank a tin cup of
strong tea. After he had fed the sick man a little caribou broth,
persuading him with infinite patience to take it, a spoonful at a
time, Morse sat down again to wear out the hours of darkness.

The problem that pressed on him could no longer be evaded. A stark
decision lay before him. To postpone it was to choose one of the
alternatives. He knew now, almost beyond any possibility of doubt,
that either West must die or else he and his friend. If he had not
snatched himself awake so promptly an hour ago, Win and he would
already be dead men. It might be that the constable was going to die,
anyhow, but he had a right to his chance of life.

On the other hand there was one rigid rule of the North-West Mounted.
The Force prided itself on living up to it literally. When a man
was sent out to get a prisoner, _he brought him in alive_. It was
a tradition. The Mounted did not choose the easy way of killing
lawbreakers because of the difficulty of capturing them. They walked
through danger, usually with aplomb, got their man, and brought him
in.

Gr., Then several more children. Eager to move relations between
Prussia and Hanover-England and even more intimately linked to,
did it again with the husband dominated by Austria in conflict,
particularly as they wanted to marry the English Crown and the Princess
Wilhelmine to being unable to bring in secret with the English
court, negotiated, and had a violent temper and of the rough hardness
of the king to suffer a lot. After his death (May 31, 1740), she lived
in the castle Monbijou in Berlin and died 28th June 1757. [Russia.]
6) P. ALEXEEVNA, Russian Grand Duchess, b. 27. Sept. 1657, daughter
of Tsar Alexei Mikhailovich from his first marriage with Maria, and
therefore half Miloslawskij Peters d. Gr., Made after the death of Tsar
Feodor III. 1682 by an uprising of the Strelitz to regent for her
brothers, Ivan the nonsensical and the innocents abroad Peter who
collectively the throne.

Their reign lasted from 1682 to 1689. You upon itself toward the end
of this period, the title of a "Selbstherrscherin" at. It had to
be a conflict between her and Peter come. That she finally 1689 in
the Virgin Monastery in Moscow, where they are 14th Died July 1704.
Sophienkirche, see Constantinople, p. 29 Sophisma (Greek), fallacy, a
conclusion that one of the art of the sophists pulls. Sophist (Greek),
the time of Pericles and Socrates in a class of philosophers what
the teaching of philosophy not as a matter of freedom of communication
too, but the same, mostly from place to place traveling to raise
money issued.

The sophists, what Plato and Aristotle as the art of using Hintansetzung
serious scientific sense the empty sham of knowledge to attract,
identify, initially developed from the quest, and the idea of
language flexibility and agility for political purposes the most
possible power, not both the conviction of persuasion as to give.

Their significance for the history of philosophy is preferably that
in its way, through manifold knowledge and partly supported by brilliant
talent quest, the durability of all consideration to be achieved
through the consideration of knowledge itself to undermine the
strength and moral conviction to dissolve, for Socrates and his followers
were the reason, the deeper problems of science be understood as
it was previously done.

The p. were mostly teachers of rhetoric, but decreased the art to
mere speech declamation as well as resist any subject.

The more exclusive the sophists this devotion, the more she lapsed
into a content-free, just to gain applause and directed sector and
ends with frivolous denial of any moral obligation and national
spot derivation of good and righteous from the area in question
liking of the powerful.

Scientifically linked to one, as Gorgias (sd), at the eleatische
school, while others, like Protagoras (sd), to Heraclitus on.

That gave the Eleaten is quite that many, but is wrong, that the One is,
because this would be, so it should be somewhere. But then it would
not be the only one: so do it at all Nothing (metaphysical nihilism).

This agreed with the Herakliteern agree that all things are changeable,
but they have declined by about the same also that knowledge is mutable:
So there was absolutely no knowledge (logical nihilism).

The most famous p. except Gorgias and Protagoras were Prodikos,
Hippias, Thrasymachos, Kritias Others See Wecklein, The P.

(Würzb. 1866). Sophists (sophistry, greek), the art of the sophists
in the worst sense of the word, then all the art, by ambiguity,
fallacious conclusions (Sophismen) and half-true arguments false
evidence manufacture; see sophist.

Sophocles, the celebrated tragic poets of Greek antiquity, born 496
BC in the Attic Kolonos, son of Sophillos, the wealthy owner of a
weapons factory, received a thorough education in the musical arts
and is the 480 round victory after the Battle of Salamis have led .

Immediately on his first appearance as a tragic poet in the age of 28
(468), he won the victory over the 30 years older Aeschylus to
continue the first rank in the tragedy to his advanced age to say.

He has over 20 times the first, but never received the third prize.

Unlike Euripides he participated in political life and held several
offices, he was 440 with Perikles commander of the fleet against
Samos.

That it in old age by his son Iophon, the equally respected as a
tragedian was due to inability to manage his assets, was withdrawn
in court, but his lecture "Oedipus at Kolonos" his complete absolution
had obtained, seems to be unfounded Sage , as also many tales of
his death, 405 were made in accordance with the testimony of a
contemporary of his life was a fine line, and his funeral held.

On his grave was a siren as a symbol of the spell of poetry. The Athenians
built him later, like Aeschylus and Euripides, a bronze statue in
the theater.

S. was already in antiquity for the master and has completed the
tragedy.

He extended the dramatic action by introducing a third actor, and by
the restriction of the choir, which he hand an art education were
richer, as he also its staff increased to 15 members.

By the composition of the tetralogy Äschyleischen (sd) left, he
designed every tragedy into a unified work of art with a self-action,
which he detailed to the artistic motivated, notably from the
character of the persons acting.

In particular, his art is reflected in the sharp, detailed and carefully
implemented pattern of guests, in which he holds the middle between
the superhuman grandeur of Aeschylus and the inclination of Euripides,
the ordinary life to copy.

By the first he has the common deep piety, but with him on a
demonstration of significantly alleviate the position of the gods
to the people.

The essence of the peculiar grace p. reflected in the language, whose
sweetness of the old general praised 42 Sophonias - soprano.

And, in its noble simplicity, midway between the magnificent pathos
of Aeschylus and the smoothness and the rhetorical Jewelry Euripides
stands.

P. is one of the most prolific poets. Except Päanen, Elegies, Epigrams,
and a prosaic script on the chorus, he has written dramas 123-130,
of which over 100 by Title and fragments known, but only 7 are
completely intact: "Aias," "Antigone," "King Oedipus "," Oedipus
at Kolonos, "" Elektra, "" Trachinierinnen "(Death of Herakles),"
Philoktetes ".

These included, with the exception of "Trachinierinnen", among the
most famous of them was P.

From "Antigone" 442, "Philoktet" 410, "Oedipus at Kolonos" only
after the death of the poet from his eponymous grandson 401 to the
stage; the drafting of the remaining time is not exactly known.

Notably, the "Antigone" and "Oedipus at Kolonos" have been in recent
times by German translations and the music by Mendelssohn-Bartholdy
for the modern stage and worked since 1841 (first in Berlin) listed
with applause.

Total expenses, excluding the Editio princeps, a Aldina (Vened.
1502), including anxious Brunck (Straßb. 1786-89, 4 vols), Erfurdt
(Leipz. 1802-11, 6 vols, Vol 7 by Heller and Döderlein, 1825, issue
of smaller G. Hermann, 3rd edition, das 1830-51, 7 vols), Schneider
(Weim. 1823-30, 10 vols), Miracles (4. to Part 5 Issue, Leipz.
1847-1879 , 2 vols), Dindorf (3rd edition, OXF. 1860, 8 vols, even in
his "Poeta scenici graeci", 5th edition, Leipz. 1869), Nauck and
Schneidewin (partially 9th Aufl, Berl. 1880, 7 vols), Nauck (das
1868), Bergk (new edition, Leipz. 1868), Beller and Wolff man (5
pieces, sometimes in 4th ed, das).

From individual pieces of processing are highlighted: "Aias"
by Lobeck (3rd edition, Berl. 1866), M. Seyffert (das 1866), "Antigone"
by Boeckh (with translation, new edition, Leipz. 1884), Meineke (Berl.
1861), M. Seyffert (das 1865), Schmidt (Jena 1880), "King Oedipus"
by Elmsley (Cambr. 1811, Leipz. 1821), Herwerden (Utr. 1866), "Oedipus
at Kolonos" by Reisig (Jena 1820), Elmsley (Oxf. 1823, Leipz.
1824), Mineke (Berl.1864); "Philoktetes" of Buttmann (das 1822) and
M.

Seyffert (das 1867), "Elektra" O . Jahn (3rd edition of Michaelis,
Bonn 1882); "Trachinierinnen" by Blaydes (Jena 1872). The fragments of
the rest of the pieces are collected by S. Nauck in tragicorum Graecorum
Fragmenta (2nd edition, Leipz. 1889). Expenditure on all items
Scholi worried Elmsley and Dindorf (3rd edition, OXF. 1860) and dad
George (Leipz. 1888). An excellent "Sophocleum Lexicon" has Ellendt
(2nd edition of Genthe, Berl. 1872, 2 vols) published the same also
Dindorf (Leipz. 1871).

Of the translations of the dramas we call Sophokleischen by Solger
(3rd edition, Berl. 1837, 2 vols), Donner (10th edition, Leipz.
1882), Thudichum (3rd edition, das 1875), Hartung (das 1853),
Minckwitz (new edition, Stuttg. 1869), W.

Jordan (Berl. 1862, 2 vols), Viehoff (Hildburgh. 1866), Scholl (Stuttg.
1869-71), fracture (Bresle . 1879), Prell-Erck (Leipz. 1883), Wendt
(Stuttg. 1884, 2 vols) and Türkheim (das 1887, 2 vols). Wilbrandt
published "Selected dramas of S. and Euripides, with respect to the
editing stage" (Nördlingen 1866). A famous statue of the poet, a Greek
original art work of the highest value (in Terracina dead), is
located in the Lateran in Rome. See Lessing, the life of p. (in whose
works); Schöll, S., his life and work (Frankf. 1842); godmother, tragiques
Études sur les Grecs, Vol 2: Sophocles (5th edition, para 1877).
Sophonias, s. Zephaniah. Sophonisbe (Sophonibe), daughter of the
Carthaginian.

Commander Hasdrubal, son of Gisgo, distinguished by beauty, spirit
and patriotism, was early with Masinissa (sd) engaged, but then with
King Syphax of Numidien married to the same for Carthage to win.

After the defeat and capture of Syphax (203 BC) Masinissa they fell
into the hands of her married immediately, to the violence of the
Romans to withdraw, but as Scipio, the influence of the irreconcilable
enemy of Rome on Masinissa afraid , demanded his extradition, they
drank the heldenmütig it by Masinissa enough poison cup.

Often dramatic treated so by Lohenstein (1666), Hersch (1859),
Geibel (1873), Roeber (1884) and others Sophora L., species from
the family of Papilionaceen, trees and shrubs, rarely herbs, in the
tropical and temperate areas the Old and New World, with unpaired
feathery leaves, white, yellow, rarely purple flowers in terminal
panicles or grapes, and more or less stalked, rosary-like dickschaligen
not jumping up sleeves.

S. japonica L., a large tree with fine feathery foliage, 11-13 bottom
hairy gray-green leaves with bristle-like herb, Blütenrispen end,
white flowers and a little meatier Hülse, grows in China and Japan
and will be with us in cultivated gardens.

The very solid wood has a strong-smelling, sharp substance which,
if some wounds may cause evil, nor are all parts of the tree
purgierend.

In China it is cultivated on a large scale, because the dried flowers
(Waifa) to yellow and green coloring used. - S. tinctoria, s.

Baptisia. Sophron, mimes Greek poet from Syracuse, older contemporary
of Euripides, wrote dialogues of prosaic Doric dialect, sometimes
serious, sometimes fun liable contents, which scenes of people living
on the faithful described.

In spite of the prosaic form were his mimes of the old seals as
regards.

Plato, through which it first announced in Athens were very appreciated
and they used them for outfitting his dramatic dialogues; Theokrit
took her into his idylls as a model, and the grammarian gave them
because of their vernacular language forms of special attention.

The weakness of the fragments obtained (as collected by Botzon, Malbork
1867) verstattet neither content nor speech intuition. See the
writings of Grysar (Cologne 1838), Heitz (Straßb. 1851) and Botzon
(Lyck 1856). Sophronisten (greek), Sion masters, the Greeks officials,
which the moral behavior of the youths in schools had to be monitored.
Sophrosyne (Greek), SVW moderation as one of the four main virtues
of Platonic Ethics and those based on the desires of the sensuous
nature of man. Sopor (Latin), s. sleep addiction.

Sopran (Italian Soprano, lat . Supremus, Discantus, Cantus, French Dessus.
engl. Treble), the highest of all types of voices, the alto is different,
that their focus is not like this in the so-called. Chest register,
but in the head voice is. S. is either a female, 43 Soprano Key -
Sorbs. Kastratenstimme boys or the cruel, naturwidrige castration
(sd) generated soprano voices of the timbre of the boy's voice and
the lung power of the mighty man.

In the papal chapel and elsewhere have been instead of the castrati
who only temporarily have been admitted, and instead of the boys
what the difficult Mensuraltheorie not learn fast enough to curb
the 15-17 So-called century.

Falsettisten (Tenorini, Alti naturali) to perform the soprano Parte
uses, which so far have been written proportionate to the votes not
be too fast to ruin.

The normal size of the soprano is from the (captive) c 'to the (branches
swept) a''; the chest register extends to the sounds of f' or fis'
downwards, the head voice to almost the entire volume, maximum
fail c 'and d' . So then the tones d 'to fis' two records in common,
ie, can be produced both ways. Until it is a''pretty much any normal
soprano extend high sopranos sing to c''', phenomenal to fis ''
', g''', c''yes''(eg Agujari Lucrezia, died 1783).

See mezzosoprano. Sopran key SVW Diskantschlüssel. Sopratara (Italian),
see Tara. Sora, district capital of the Italian Province of
Caserta, on the Garigliano, the bishop's seat, with seminar, trade
school, remains of ancient walls of the S. and the medieval castle
Sorella, Tuchfabrikation, paper mills, and (1881) 5411 inh Sorácte
(now Monte Sant 'Oreste), a famous mountain, 45 km north of Rome,
the highest peak of a between the Via Flaminia and the Tiber drag
ridge.

On its summit stood in ancient times a famous temple of Apollo
(hence its nickname Soranus), the strange nature daselbst festivals
were celebrated.

On the slopes of the mountain there were hot springs, at his feet lay a
shrine of Feronia.

S. is 692 m high and granted especially with snow a picturesque sight
(at Horace Soractes candidus).

Karl Mann, the brother Pippin, founded on 748 S. Ostabhang of the monastery
of healing. New Year's Eve.

Sorano, a village in the Italian province of Grosseto, with mineral
springs and (1881) 1217 inhab.

This Sovana (Soana), a formerly important, but since a long time
because of the unhealthy climate deserted place, with the diocese
(based in Pitigliano ) and a large cathedral, Pope Gregory VII
Birthplace Near numerous Etruscan tombs and the ruins of the ancient
Saturnia.

Soranus, epithet of Apollo (see Soracte). Sorata, Revado de (Ilampu),
near the highest mountain in the Aconeagua amerikan. Continent,
there is a volcanic cone on the eastern Umwallung (Cordillera Real)
of the high plateau of Bolivia in South America, in O. of Lake
Titicaca, and overlooks the plateau at 2700 m by 6544 m to the
circuit.

Sorau, 1) in the district town Preuß.

Frankfurt district government, the junction lines Sommerfeld-Iegnitz,
S. Sagan and S. Kottbus of the Prussian State Railways, 160 m above
sea level. M., consists of the castle district, with the old castle
(from 1207) and also built the new castle (from 1716, now the local
authorities) in addition to St. Peter's Church (built around 1200), and
the actual city.

From outstanding buildings include: the main Protestant church (from
the 14th century, 1870 restored), the palace and monastery church (1728
rebuilt) and the Gräbigerkirche (since 1874 the Altlutheranern
acknowledged), the town hall, the hospital and the Forest Castle
(from 1557).

Public places are: the Kaiserplatz with the war memorial and the
Bismarckplatz. The population is (1885) 13665 souls, mostly Protestant,
what cloth, canvas and Damastweberei, dyeing, printing, wax light,
bricks-and-drain tube fabrication, china painting, art and commercial
nursery operation.

For the trade there are a chamber of commerce and a branch Reichsbank.
S. has a gymnasium, a Webschule, a court, a Oberförsterei a lunatic
asylum and an orphanage. In many of the surrounding coal mines. - S.

Wendish origin is 1260 and received city rights. At that time it
belonged to the Castle of Devin, 1355 it came to the Castle of Biberstein,
which is also in the vicinity of the city, the domination S., acquired.
This was, after 1490-1512 had heard of Saxony, after the extinction
of the Burggrafen Biberstein 1551 to King Ferdinand I of Bohemia,
in 1557 they together with the Triebel domination to the bishop of
Breslau, of Balthasar Promnitz sold.

The last offspring of the House gave both 1765 against an annuity
of 12000 Thlr.

Axis of course, from which they came to Prussia in 1815. See Worbs,
history of domination and S. Triebel (Sor. 1826); Hall Born
contributions to the history of S. (das 1876, Issue 1). - 2) city,
s. Sohrau.

Sorau, Paul, botanist, born 9 June 1839 to Wroclaw, daselbst learned
the nursery, heard simultaneously botanical lectures, went to
further practical training in Berlin, Brussels, Paris and London,
lived a year in Donaueschingen 1864-68 and then studied in Berlin
science, particularly botany.

He worked as an assistant in Karstens pflanzenphysiologischem Institute
and devoted his studies from now on only the phytopathology.

He began lectures on this discipline at the agricultural institute in
Berlin, but soon went as assistant to Dahme Hellriegel in 1871 and
followed a call to the institute in pomologische Proslau.

He's got as many lives as a
cat--and then some. I've knew him ever since he was knee-high to a
grasshopper."

Brad Stearns was talking. He sat in the big family room at the McRae
house and puffed clouds of tobacco, smoke to the rafters.

"Meaning Mr. Beresford?" asked Jessie demurely. She was patching a
pair of leather trousers for Fergus and she did not raise her eyes
from the work.

"Meanin' Tom Morse," the old-timer said. "Not but what Beresford's a
good lad too. Sand in his craw an' a kick like a mule in his fist. But
he was brought up somewheres in the East, an' o' course he's a leetle
mite less tough than Tom. No, sir. Tom'll bob up one o' these here
days good as ever. Don't you worry none about that. Why, he ain't been
gone but--lemme see, a week or so better'n four months. When a man's
got to go to the North Pole an' back, four months--"

Beneath her long lashes the girl slanted a swift look at Brad. "That
makes twice you've told me in two minutes not to worry about Mr.
Morse. Do I look peaked? Am I lying awake nights thinking about him,
do you think?" She held up the renewed trousers and surveyed her
handiwork critically.

Brad gazed at her through narrowed lids. "I'll be doggoned if I know
whether you are or you ain't. I'd bet a pair o' red-topped boots it's
one of them lads. 'Course Beresford's got a red coat an' spurs that
jingle an' a fine line o' talk. Tom he ain't got ary one o' the three.
But if it's a man you're lookin' for, a two-fisted man who--"

A wave of mirth crossed Jessie's face like a ripple on still water.
Her voice mimicked his. "Why do you want to saw off an old maid on
that two-fisted man you've knew ever since he was knee-high to a
grasshopper? What did he ever do to you that was so doggoned mean?"

"Now looky here, you can laugh at me all you've a mind to. All I'm
sayin' is--"

"Oh, I'm not laughing at you," she interposed hurriedly with an
assumption of anxiety her bubbling eyes belied. Although no praise seems
reasonable in all its faults, is as fallacious the merits, we must
nevertheless confess that attacks only the exaggerations and
excesses, and lack of dignity and morality, which is noted in many
drama productions of the time.

The other charges that the new literature, are not generally unfounded
attack works when the deplorable poetastros but are unjust, as above,
where all spreads, and deck and confuses the good with bad.

"And you're willing to make a squaw-man of him. Oh, Mr. Stearns!"

He looked at her severely. "You got no license to talk thataway,
Jessie McRae. You're Angus McRae's daughter an' you been to Winnipeg
to school. Anyways, after what Lemoine found out--"

"What did he find out? Pierre Roubideaux couldn't tell him anything
about the locket and the ring. Makoye-kin said he got it from his
brother who was one of a party that massacred an American outfit of
trappers headed for Peace River. He doesn't know whether the picture
of the woman in the locket was that of one of the women in the camp.
All we've learned is that I look like a picture of a white woman found
in a locket nearly twenty years ago. That doesn't take us very far,
does it?"

"Well, Stokimatis may know something. When Onistah comes back with
her, we'll get the facts straight."

McRae came into the room. "News, lass," he cried, and his voice rang.
"A Cree runner's just down frae Northern Lights. Calmly, he nodded, if
it with his rough Unbehilflichkeit tease. Only when he signed his big
pipe set on fire and a few powerful strokes herausjagte steam, made the
brows. Wilms stopped. »Do you?" He asked sadly. Ungern on this if
he had renounced pleasure.

"If they dislike about the same on the other hand, feel like my
poor Else?"

He thought a little out of tune. Solo Hedwig moved her scented
handkerchief, and while they are zufächelte air, she said casually:
"By tomorrow, so you can smoke, Wilms prefer, but not longer." "See
you tomorrow?" Thought Wilms astonished. He understood them not. Afar
, langhinhallende tones mixed into their conversation. From the
main church of the good, almost a quarter of an hour away was, in
turn, the bells began to ring, for the last time before the festival.

What a fine, dreamy Silberton pulled it through the air. Hedwig rose.
They came to the window and pulled the curtain continues. Outside,
white, blinking snow, the gray air completely filled with large
flakes, the slow and difficult herabfielen.

What seemed to solidify the soft down sometimes in an empty space
wanting to hold on. When she as in the flurry hineinblickte, beschlich
the girl a silent melancholy: "Tomorrow is Christmas," she said
quietly.

Nothing stirred behind her. No response has been loud. Slowly she
turned back. Wilms sat at the table, the heavy head on the hand by,
and looked at the little gold heart, which he recently purchased. A
tear was on the gold-rolled, straight to his name, which was
engraved there.

Now he saw: "In eight days she is with us again," he said softly, as if
his grave feeling wanted to push back.

"Else? "asked the girl quickly." Yes. - Come, Hedwig - I want her heart
to this celebration send. We want to pack it. "The girl was on. Gradually
phasing them to the table, slowly they weighed the little heart in his
hand.

Only when they noticed the engraved name, she looked at her brother,
who had also collected, and thoughtful in the good-natured eyes.

"They will be happy," she said seriously and vigorously. The box was
verschnürt, Wilms wrote the address, Hedwig helped him add light
and sealing wax.

He expressed the sealing points. With rigid strange glances followed
them doing An atom of the liquid wax fell on her hand and stood on
the white surface, like a round drop of blood. "O" - called Wilms scared,
"I have you painful. "" Me? "She had hardly noticed." It does not burn
more, "she reassured the husbandman defensive.

Immediately thereafter she nodded kindly to him and went to the
door. - It was probably not that he entgegengestreckt her hand had,
as he always did when her "good night" was.

The door is closed before they could hear his wish. Looked baffled
after her tenants.

Then he went for a long time in the big rooms up and down, until he
finally came under the window, exactly where Hedwig had earlier confessed.
And, just as it, he peered into the soundless snow drift inside, he
pushed the forehead to the icy glass and stirred not. He thought of
his distant wife? He introduced himself as the golden heart of the
white emaciated neck loop would, but while he was there ausmalte,
was outside the gearbox always stormy, and the flakes whirled balgten
always great -- the confused his thoughts. "Hedwig What probably would
say," whispered something in him, "if I give her tomorrow the thin
chain around the neck for them?"

He wanted to shake off the idea, but in spirit he bent and kissed it
to this white, blooming neck. And getting hotter and brewed his great
imagination. "Whether they will probably wrap arms around him and
her red mouth to collect it would be like a loving wife, which clings
to the man?" A mad smile plays around his lips. Suddenly, he went
on and broke into a violent, painful moans of "Jesus Christ - not
into temptation," he stammered, "O God, not into temptation."

As in convulsions, he folded his hands. And out still sounded
the bell, bim - bum - bim -- bum, solemnly quiet as ghosts singing
warning that the message of the Savior in this abandoned farmstead
in the snow were sunk. IV It was the feast come. Even in the afternoon
Hedwig asked the tenant, he would leave the large living room.
Something Mysterious prepare himself. Sullen and morose, as he would
otherwise never be against the girl had Wilms this went from the
room without a word and he avoided it, they should be.

Long before the worn travelers and their escort reached the village,
Jessie could hear the gay lilt of the chantey that heralded their
coming:

  "Malbrouck s'en va-t-en guerre,
   Mironton-ton-ton, mirontaine."

The girl hummed it herself, heart athrob with excitement. She found
herself joining in the cheer of welcome that rose joyously when the
cavalcade drew into sight. In her cheeks fluttered eager flags of
greeting. Tears brimmed the soft eyes, so that she could hardly
distinguish Tom Morse and Win Beresford, the one lean and gaunt and
grim, the other pale and hollow-eyed from illness, but scattering
smiles of largesse. For her heart was crying, in a paraphrase of the
great parable, "He was dead, and is alive again; he was lost, and is
found."

Beresford caught sight of the Inspector's face and chuckled like
a schoolboy caught in mischief. This gay procession, with its
half-breeds in tri-colored woolen coats, its gay-plumed voyageurs
suggesting gallant troubadours of old in slashed belts and tassels,
was not quite the sort of return to set Inspector MacLean cheering.
Externally, at least, he was a piece of military machinery. A trooper
did his work, and that ended it. In the North-West Mounted it was not
necessary to make a gala day of it because a constable brought in his
man. If he didn't bring him in--well, that would be another and a
sadder story for the officer who fell down on the assignment.

As soon as Beresford and Morse had disposed of their prisoner and
shaken off their exuberant friends, they reported to the Inspector.
He sat at a desk and listened dryly to their story. Not till they had
finished did he make any comment.

"You'll have a week's furlough to recuperate, Constable Beresford.
After that report to the Writing-on-Stone detachment for orders.
Here's a voucher for your pay, Special Constable Morse. I'll say
to you both that it was a difficult job well done." He hesitated a
moment, then proceeded to free his mind. "As for this Roman triumph
business--victory procession with prisoners chained to your chariot
wheels--quite unnecessary, I call it."

Beresford explained, smilingly. "We really couldn't help it, sir. They
were bound to make a Roman holiday out of us whether we wanted to or
not. You know how excitable the French are. Had to have their little
frolic out of it."

"Not the way the Mounted does business. You know that, Beresford.
We don't want any fuss and feathers--any fol-de-rol--this
mironton-ton-ton stuff. Damn it, sir, you liked it. I could see you
eat it up. D'you s'pose I haven't eyes in my head?"

The veneer of sobriety Beresford imposed on his countenance refused to
stay put.

MacLean fumed on. "Hmp! Malbrouck s'en va-t-en guerre, eh? Very
pretty. Very romantic, no doubt. But damned sentimental tommyrot, just
the same."

"Yes, sir," agreed the constable, barking into a cough just in time to
cut off a laugh.

"Get out!" ordered the Inspector, and there was the glimmer of a
friendly smile in his own eyes. "And I'll expect you both to dine with
me to-night. Six o'clock sharp. I'll hear that wonderful story in more
detail. And take care of yourself, Beresford. You don't look strong
yet. I'll make that week two or three if necessary."

"Thank you, sir."

"Hmp! Don't thank me. Earned it, didn't you? What are you hanging
around for? Get out!"

Constable Beresford had his revenge. As he passed the window,
Inspector MacLean heard him singing. The words that drifted to the
commissioned office! were familiar.

  "Malbrouck s'en va-t-en guerre,
   Mironton-ton-ton, mirontaine."

MacLean smiled at the irrepressible youngster. Like most people, he
responded to the charm of Winthrop Beresford. He could forgive him a
touch of debonair impudence if necessary.

It happened that his heart was just now very warm toward both these
young fellows. They had come through hell and had upheld the best
traditions of the Force. Between the lines of the story they had told
he gathered that they had shaved the edge of disaster a dozen times.
But they had stuck to their guns like soldiers. They had fought it out
week after week, hanging to their man with bulldog pluck. And when at
last they were found almost starving in camp, they were dividing their
last rabbit with the fellow they were bringing out to be hanged.

The Inspector walked to the window and looked down the street after
them. His lips moved, but no sound came from them. The rhythmic motion
of them might have suggested, if there had been anybody present to
observe, that his mind was running on the old river song.

  "Malbrouck s'en va-t-en guerre,
  Mironton-ton-ton, mirontaine."


CHAPTER XLI

SENSE AND NONSENSE


Beresford speaking, to an audience of one, who listened with soft dark
eyes aglow and sparkling.

"He's the best scout ever came over the border, Jessie. Trusty as
steel, stands the gaff without whining, backs his friends to the
limit, and plays the game out till the last card's dealt and the last
trick lost. Tom Morse is a man in fifty thousand."

"I know another," she murmured. "Every word you've said is true for
him too."

"He's a wonder, that other." admitted the soldier dryly. "But we're
talking about Tom now. I tell you that iron man dragged West and me
out of the Barrens by the scruff of our necks. Wouldn't give up.
Wouldn't quit. The yellow in West came out half a dozen times. When
the ten-day blizzard caught us, he lay down and yelped like a cur. I
wouldn't have given a plugged six-pence for our chances. But Tom went
out into it, during a little lull, and brought back with him a timber
wolf. Then read the date and saw that the letter was written for more
than fifteen years. The letter was laconic. No more than these
words: 'Dear daughter: The bearer of this letter will be Don Gregorio
Salinas, Madrid notary, person of my confidence. Gives full credit
to what you say; Oyelaran and atiéndele and accept and receive it
without the slightest compunction, that offers and delivers. "- Passing
out that gentleman - Doña Luz said. Juana went looking, and D. Gregory
entered the room where doña Luz was.

After completion of the usual sitting Doña Luz and hitherto unknown guest
in comfortable seats, he spoke with sleep and who has a lot to
say, as follows: -- USIA-You know that my name is Gregorio Salinas.

Now I am a scribe and I am not wrong goods fortune. Ventiocho years
ago I was a poor student, without a penny in my pocket, but instead,
nor fat, had no gray hair, or bald, or wrinkled, and the people stated,
USIA forgive the immodesty that I remember that I was a nice kid,
smart and funny. This is not surprising, therefore, to be in love with
my wife of one of my outstanding merit Joaquina. Joaquina This is my
wife, to serve USIA.

I love USIA and sends me a thousand respectful and affectionate
terms. - Thank you - Doña Luz said, breaking Don Gregorio -.

V.

Treatment and let you call me, and also forgive me if I say frankly
that relieves her story because I'm curious. - Have V. calm lady
marchioness; have V. calm.

I promise not to be tedious or annoying. Iré al grano. Do not
believe you that nothing I say is a smoke straws.

Everything you need to V. becomes aware. - Come, follow V., and
again to forgive my interruption. - Well, as I was saying - continued
D.

Gregory - My wife is now a matronaza guapetona still fresh and
although the years do not go in vain.

Five children has given me five dollars. All orders are V., Mrs
marquesa.

Then, when the engagement was a girl of my Joaquina the most select
that walking in Madrid, and served as a maiden lady some of the
most encopetadas whose privacy was complete and all its most intimate
secrets possessed.

he laughed. "Am I proposing?"

"Of course you are. But I haven't found out yet whether it's for
yourself or Mr. Morse."

"A good suggestion--novel, too. For us both, let's say. You take your
choice." He flung out a hand in a gay debonair gesture.

"You've told his merits, but I don't think I ever heard yours
mentioned," she countered. "If you'd recite them, please."

"It's a subject I can do only slight justice." He bowed again.
"Sergeant Beresford, at your service, of the North-West Mounted."

"Sergeant! Since when?"

"Since yesterday. Promoted for meritorious conduct in the line of
duty. My pay is increased to one dollar and a quarter a day. In case
happily your choice falls on me, don't squander it on silks and
satins, on trips to Paris and London--"

"If I choose you, it won't be for your wealth," she assured him.

"Reassured, fair lady. I proceed with the inventory of Sergeant
Beresford's equipment as a future husband. Fond, but, alas! fickle. A
family black sheep, or if not black, at least striped. Likely not to
plague you long, if he's sent on many more jobs like the last. Said
to be good-tempered, but not docile. Kind, as men go, but a
ne'er-do-well, a prodigal, a waster. Something whispers in my ear that
he'll make a better friend than a husband."

"A twin fairy is whispering the same in my ear," the girl nodded.
"At least a better friend to Jessie McRae. But I think he has a poor
advocate in you. The description is not a flattering one. I don't even
recognize the portrait."

"But Tom Morse--"

"Exactly, Tom Morse. Haven't you rather taken the poor fellow for
granted?" She felt an unexpected blush burn into her cheek. It stained
the soft flesh to her throat. For she was discovering that the
nonsense begun so lightly was embarrassing. She did not want to talk
about the feelings of Tom Morse toward her. "It's all very well to
joke, but--"

"Shall I ask him?" he teased.

She flew into a mild near-panic. "If you dare, Win Beresford!" The
flash in her eyes was no longer mirth. "We'll talk about something
else. I don't think it's very nice of us to--to--"

"Tom retired from conversational circulation," he announced. "Shall we
talk of cats or kings?"

"Tell me your plans, now you've been promoted."

"Plans? Better men make 'em. Are they also more visually by color and
texture of Kolonieen not differ as there are variations in the size
of individual cocci, the ability to liquefy gelatin, or form by now
and then as Diplokokken appear. Relatively often there are blaßgraue
to brownish, strongly succulent appearing Kolonieen whose more or
less broad zone edge a jagged edge and transparent.

Its surface is smooth, often with radial striations provide. Come to
concentré rings, will receive the Kolonieen, as some time observed
a kokardenähnliches appearance.

Grünlichgelb Also, citric and of sulfur-yellow Kolonieen more common,
even this form Kolonieen after some time concentré rings, even in
earlier stages of stratification in the Centrum.

This yellow Kolonieen show the peculiarity that the size of the
cocci from the same colony quite varied. Even with these Gram negative
Kokkenarten are animal experiments have been employed.

It was shown that they are not animal.

Sarcine Very often, the culture plates encountered.

Almost exclusively, it is matte or glossy yellow, glattrandige, which
more or less gelatin liquefying Kolonieen time. On gelatine plates
they grow slowly, faster on agar plates, where deposits of 1 cm in
diameter were observed.

Microscopically, we find pronounced goods next ball shape arrangement
of Sarcinekokken in Tetraden.

Two are small, gray-white, round, matt Sarcinekolonieen been
encountered, the Gelatin liquified late.

Microscopically it proved to be a little plump cocci, the four were
together. Some of the above yellow-growing species, I believe for
the same _Sarcina flava_ and _lutea_.

Even with the Sarcinearten animals are judged.

Injections of pure cultures under the skin of guinea pigs called no
changes in the carcass show. allergewöhnlichsten Among the findings
on the culture plates are chopsticks.

Far in the majority are representatives from the large group of
Heubazillen. Your Kolonieen can be found on each plate as weißlichgraue,
shiny, on agar often dull glattrandige deposits. Its surface is often
radial or concentré folded and pellicles comparable.

Microscopically are large and medium, often in long threads united
spore-bearing rods, according to Gram stain.

In hanging drops, the bacilli own animated motion. The gelatin will
soon form a soft pellicles liquefied. As surely could be diagnosed
the _Bazillus subtilis_, the _Bazillus mesentericus vulgatus_,
characterized by the typical growth on potatoes, also _Bazillus
mycoides_ whose Kolonieen as the foothills of roots branch off and
already macroscopically shall not be denied.

All of these microorganisms in air and dust is widespread and utterly
harmless.

The pathogenic species of spore-forming rod, the agents of anthrax,
rush Brandes, malignant edema have not been found.

Sporulated non-supporting fingers are also among the allergewöhnlichsten
findings.

Short, crude Gram positive rods are of various Kolonieen to win.

Were observed on agar plates Kolonieen orange yellow, with a strong
shiny surface and under the edge out to brighten up.

The colony is very prominent, its margin smooth, in older Kolonieen
we meet in the center of dellenförmige draft.
He could do as he pleased. Why should
she interfere? And yet--and yet--

She found a shadow of excuse for herself in the fact that it had been
through her that he had offered himself as a special constable. He
might think she wanted him to enlist permanently. So many girls were
foolish about the red coats of soldiers. She had noticed that among
her school-girl friends at Winnipeg. If she had any influence with him
at all, she did not want it thrown on that side of the scale.

But of course he probably did not care what she thought. Very likely
it was her vanity that whispered to her he had gone North with Win
Beresford partly to please her. Still, since she was his friend, ought
she not to just drop an offhand hint that he was a more useful citizen
where he was than in the Mounted? He couldn't very well resent that,
could he? Or think her officious? Or forward?

She contrived little plans to meet him when he would be alone and she
could talk with him, but she rejected these because she was afraid he
would see through them. It had become of first importance to her that
Tom Morse should not think she had any but a superficial interest in
him.

When at last she did meet him, it was by pure chance. Dusk was
falling. She was passing the yard where his storehouse was. He wheeled
out and came on her plumply face to face. Both were taken by surprise
completely. Out of it neither could emerge instantly with casual words
of greeting.

Jessie felt her pulses throb. A queer consternation paralyzed the
faculties that ought to have come alertly to her rescue. She stood,
awkwardly silent, in a shy panic to her pulsing finger-tips. Later she
would flog herself scornfully for her folly, but this did not help in
the least now.

"I--I was just going to Mr. Whaley's with a little dress Mother made
for the baby," she said at last.

"It's a nice baby," was the best he could do.

"Yes. It's funny. You know Mr. Whaley didn't care anything about it
before--while it was very little. But now he thinks it's wonderful.
I'm so glad he does."

She was beginning to get hold of herself, to emerge from the emotional
crisis into which this meeting had plunged her. It had come to her
consciousness that he was as perturbed as she, and a discovery of this
nature always brings a woman composure.

"He treats his wife a lot better too."

"There was room for it," he said dryly.

"She's a nice little thing."

"Yes."

Conversation, which had been momentarily brisk, threatened to die out
for lack of fuel. A strict ruling on this apology Marmont is the
following: «Si on voulait l'étudier sa vie en adoptant ce qu'il
dit sur lui-même dans les neuf volumes laisse à la postérité comme
justification de sa conduite, courrait on grand risque d '
continuellement être à côte de vérité.

"(Michaud Biographie universal, tome 27, p. 18) At least what
is happening in the Bocca concerns, largely agrees with this
verdict.

It is regrettable that Europe is of these events a long time just
been informed by Marmont.]

He had purposely kept silent, she
knew now, in the hope that she would talk to Tom Morse about it. "But
I'm glad you've decided against going in."

"Why?"

"It's dangerous, and I don't think it has much future."

"Win likes it."

"Yes, Win does. He'll get a commission one of these days."

"He deserves one. I--I hope you'll both be very happy."

He was walking beside her. Quickly her glance flashed up at him. Was
that the reason he had held himself so aloof from her?

And even in the human venture to perform miracles without respect
or consideration it seems that there is such a miracle and good
appearance, as they call, so that ignorant people will admire and
come to the comedy: this is all to the detriment of the truth, and
impair the stories, and even opprobrium of the mills in Spain,
because foreigners, who are very timely the laws of comedy, we are
barbarians and ignorant ...

"Easy is the answer to all these criticisms.
"Yes, I'll miss him. He's a splendid fellow. I've never met one like
him, so staunch and cheerful and game. Sometime I'd like to tell you
about that trip we took. You'd be proud of him."

With some regularity, we also sticks to short crude Kolonieen in the
blaßgraugelblich glossy, transparent, and an irregular shape.

The peripheral zone is more prominent, wall-like and intense yellowish
color.
But never a whimper out of him from first to last.
Always cheerful, always hopeful, with a little joke or a snatch of a
song, even when it looked as though we couldn't go on another day.
He's one out of ten thousand."

"I heard him say that about another man--only I think he said one in
fifty thousand," she made comment, almost in a murmur.

"Any girl would be lucky to have such a man for a husband," he added
fatuously.

Under the microscope, we see large, egg-shaped structures with
pronounced sprouting.

Undoubtedly it is in the air often demonstrate pathogenic _non pink
Hefe_.

On each plate also grow on average 2-3 Kolonieen of molds.

But I thought--"

He stopped. She took up his unfinished sentence.

"You thought wrong."