"Look here, Bob," said he, "this isn't quite fair, is it? This is a big
piece of timber. It needs a man with a longer life in front of him than
I can hope for. I wanted to be able to think that in a few years, when I
get tired I could count on you for the heavy work. It's too big a
business for an old man."

"I'll stay with you until you find that young man," said Bob. "There are
a good many, trained to the business, capable of handling this
property."

"But nobody like you, Bobby. I've brought you up to my methods. We've
grown up together at this. You're just like a son to me." Welton's
round, red face was puckered to a wistful and comically pathetic twist,
as he looked across at the serious manly young fellow.

Bob looked away. "That's just what makes it hard," he managed to say at
last; "I'd like to go on with you. We've gotten on famously. But I
can't. This isn't my work."

Welton laboured in vain to induce him to change his mind. Several times
he considered telling Bob the truth--that all this timber belonged
really to Jack Orde, Bob's father, and that his, Welton's interest in it
was merely that of the active partner in the industry. But this his
friend had expressly forbidden. Welton ended by saying nothing about it.
He resolved first to write Orde.

"You might tell me what this new job is, though," he said at last, in
apparent acquiescence.

Bob hesitated. "You won't understand; and I won't be able to make you
understand," he said. "I'm going to enter the Forest Service!"

"What!" cried Welton, in blank astonishment. "What's that?"

"I've about decided to take service as a ranger," stated Bob, his face
flushing.

From that moment all Welton's anxiety seemed to vanish. It became
unbearably evident that he looked on all this as the romance of youth.
Bob felt himself suddenly reduced, in the lumberman's eyes, to the
status of the small boy who wants to be a cowboy, or a sailor, or an
Indian fighter. Welton looked on him with an indulgent eye as on one who
would soon get enough of it. The glamour--whatever it was--would soon
wear off; and then Bob, his fling over, would return to sober, real
business once more. All Welton's joviality returned. From time to time
he would throw a facetious remark in Bob's direction, when, in the
course of the day's work, he happened to pass.

"It's sure going to be fine to wear a real tin star and be an officer!"

Or:

"Bob, it sure will seem scrumptious to ride out and boss the whole
country--on ninety a month. Guess I'll join you."

Or:

"You going to make me sweep up my slashings, or will a rake do, Mr.
Ranger?"

To these feeble jests Bob always replied good-naturedly. He did not
attempt to improve Welton's conception of his purposes. That must come
with time. To his father, however, he wrote at great length; trying his
best to explain the situation. Mr. Orde replied that a government
position was always honourable; but confessed himself disappointed that
his son had not more steadfastness of purpose. Welton received a reply
to his own letter by the same mail.

"I shouldn't tell him anything," it read. "Let him go be a ranger, or a
cowboy, or anything else he wants. He's still young. I didn't get my
start until I was thirty; and the business is big enough to wait for
him. You keep pegging along, and when he gets enough, he'll come back.
He's apparently got some notions of serving the public, and doing good
in the world, and all that. We all get it at his age. By and by he'll
find out that tending to his business honestly is about one man's job."

So, without active opposition, and with only tacit disapproval, Bob made
his change. Nor was he received at headquarters with any blare of
trumpets.

"I'll put you on as 'temporary' until the fall examinations," said
Thorne, "and you can try it out. Rangering is hard work--all kinds of
hard work. It isn't just riding around, you know. You'll have to make
good. You can bunk up with Pollock at the upper cabin. Report to-morrow
morning with him."

Amy smiled at him brightly.

"Don't let him scare you," said she. "He thinks it looks official to be
an awful bear!"

California John met him as he rode out the gate. He reached out his
gnarled old hand.

"Son, we'll get him to send us sometime to Jack Main's Cañon," said he.

Bob, who had been feeling the least shade depressed, rode on, his head
high. Before him lay the great mysterious country where had penetrated
only the Pioneers! Another century would build therein the structures
of its institutions. Now, like Jack Main's Cañon, the far country of new
things was to be the field of his enterprise. In the future, when the
new generations had come, these things would all be ordered and secure,
would be systematized, their value conceded, their acceptance a matter
of course. All problems would be regulated; all difficulties smoothed
away; all opposition overcome. Then the officers and rangers of that
peaceful and organized service, then the public--accepting such things
as they accept all self-evident truths--would look back on these
beginnings as men look back on romance. They would recall the time when,
like knights errant, armed men rode abroad on horses through a
wilderness, lying down under the stars, living hard, dwelling lowly in
poverty, accomplishing with small means, striving mightily, combating
the great elemental nature and the powers of darkness in men, enduring
patiently, suffering contempt and misunderstanding and enmity in order
that the inheritance of the people yet to come might be assured. He was
one of them; he had the privilege. Suddenly his spirit felt freed. His
old life receded swiftly. A new glory and uplift of soul swept him from
his old moorings.


PART FIVE


I


Next morning Bob was set to work with young Jack Pollock stringing
barbed wire fence. He had never done this before. The spools of wire
weighed on him heavily. A crowbar thrust through the core made them a
sort of axle with which to carry it. Thus they walked forward, revolving
the heavy spool with the greatest care while the strand of wire unwound
behind them. Every once in a while a coil would kink, or buckle back, or
strike as swiftly and as viciously as a snake. The sharp barbs caught at
their clothing, and tore Bob's hands. Jack Pollock seemed familiar with
the idiosyncrasies of the stuff, for he suffered little damage. Indeed,
he even found leisure, as Bob soon discovered, to scrutinize his
companion with a covert curiosity. In the eyes of the countryside, Bob
had been "fired," and had been forced to take a job rangering. When the
entangling strand had been laid along the ground by the newly planted
cedar posts, it became necessary to stretch and fasten it. Here, too,
young Jack proved himself a competent teacher. He showed Bob how to get
a tremendous leverage with the curve on the back of an ordinary hammer
by means of which the wire was held taut until the staples could be
driven home. It was aggravating, nervous, painful work for one not
accustomed to it. Bob's hands were soon cut and bleeding, no matter how
gingerly he took hold of the treacherous wire. To all his comments,
heated and otherwise, Jack Pollock opposed the mountaineer's determined
inscrutability. He watched Bob's efforts always in silence until that
young man had made all his mistakes. Then he spat carefully, and, with
quiet patience, did it right.

