
    What we may expect--The number of known species of extinct
    animals--Causes of the imperfection of the geological
    record--Geological evidences of
    evolution--Shells--Crocodiles--The rhinoceros tribe--The
    pedigree of the horse tribe--Development of deer's horns--Brain
    development--Local relations of fossil and living animals--Cause
    of extinction of large animals--Indications of general progress
    in plants and animals--The progressive development of
    plants--Possible cause of sudden late appearance of
    exogens--Geological distribution of insects--Geological
    succession of vertebrata--Concluding remarks.


The theory of evolution in the organic world necessarily implies that
the forms of animals and plants have, broadly speaking, progressed from
a more generalised to a more specialised structure, and from simpler to
more complex forms. We know, however, that this progression has been by
no means regular, but has been accompanied by repeated degradation and
degeneration; while extinction on an enormous scale has again and again
stopped all progress in certain directions, and has often compelled a
fresh start in development from some comparatively low and imperfect
type.

The enormous extension of geological research in recent times has made
us acquainted with a vast number of extinct organisms, so vast that in
some important groups--such as the mollusca--the fossil are more
numerous than the living species; while in the mammalia they are not
much less numerous, the preponderance of living species being chiefly in
the smaller and in the arboreal forms which have not been so well
preserved as the members of the larger groups. With such a wealth of
material to illustrate the successive stages through which animals have
passed, it will naturally be expected that we should find important
evidence of evolution. We should hope to learn the steps by which some
isolated forms have been connected with their nearest allies, and in
many cases to have the gaps filled up which now separate genus from
genus, or species from species. In some cases these expectations are
fulfilled, but in many other cases we seek in vain for evidence of the
kind we desire; and this absence of evidence with such an apparent
wealth of material is held by many persons to throw doubt on the theory
of evolution itself. They urge, with much appearance of reason, that all
the arguments we have hitherto adduced fall short of demonstration, and
that the crucial test consists in being able to show, in a great number
of cases, those connecting links which we say must have existed. Many of
the gaps that still remain are so vast that it seems incredible to these
writers that they could ever have been filled up by a close succession
of species, since these must have spread over so many ages, and have
existed in such numbers, that it seems impossible to account for their
total absence from deposits in which great numbers of species belonging
to other groups are preserved and have been discovered. In order to
appreciate the force, or weakness, of these objections, we must inquire
into the character and completeness of that record of the past life of
the earth which geology has unfolded, and ascertain the nature and
amount of the evidence which, under actual conditions, we may expect to
find.


_The Number of known Species of Extinct Animals._

When we state that the known fossil mollusca are considerably more
numerous than those which now live on the earth, it appears at first
sight that our knowledge is very complete, but this is far from being
the case. The species have been continually changing throughout
geological time, and at each period have probably been as numerous as
they are now. If we divide the fossiliferous strata into twelve great
divisions--the Pliocene, Miocene, Eocene, Cretaceous, Oolite, Lias,
Trias, Permian, Carboniferous, Devonian, Silurian, and Cambrian,--we
find not only that each has a very distinct and characteristic molluscan
fauna, but that the different subdivisions often present a widely
different series of species; so that although a certain number of
species are common to two or more of the great divisions, the totality
of the species that have lived upon the earth must be very much more
than twelve times--perhaps even thirty or forty times--the number now
living. In like manner, although the species of fossil mammals now
recognised by more or less fragmentary fossil remains may not be much
less numerous than the living species, yet the duration of existence of
these was comparatively so short that they were almost completely
changed, perhaps six or seven times, during the Tertiary period; and
this is certainly only a fragment of the geological time during which
mammalia existed on the globe.

There is also reason to believe that the higher animals were much more
abundant in species during past geological epochs than now, owing to the
greater equability of the climate which rendered even the arctic regions
as habitable as the temperate zones are in our time.

The same equable climate would probably cause a more uniform
distribution of moisture, and render what are now desert regions capable
of supporting abundance of animal life. This is indicated by the number
and variety of the species of large animals that have been found fossil
in very limited areas which they evidently inhabited at one period. M.
Albert Gaudry found, in the deposits of a mountain stream at Pikermi in
Greece, an abundance of large mammalia such as are nowhere to be found
living together at the present time. Among them were two species of
Mastodon, two different rhinoceroses, a gigantic wild boar, a camel and
a giraffe larger than those now living, several monkeys, carnivora
ranging from martens and civets to lions and hyaenas of the largest
size, numerous antelopes of at least five distinct genera, and besides
these many forms altogether extinct. Such were the great herds of
Hipparion, an ancestral form of horse; the Helladotherium, a huge animal
bigger than the giraffe; the Ancylotherium, one of the Edentata; the
huge Dinotherium; the Aceratherium, allied to the rhinoceros; and the
monstrous Chalicotherium, allied to the swine and ruminants, but as
large as a rhinoceros; and to prey upon these, the great Machairodus or
sabre-toothed tiger. And all these remains were found in a space 300
paces long by 60 paces broad, many of the species existing in enormous
quantities.

The Pikermi fossils belong to the Upper Miocene formation, but an
equally rich deposit of Upper Eocene age has been discovered in
South-Western France at Quercy, where M. Filhol has determined the
presence of no less than forty-two species of beasts of prey alone.
Equally remarkable are the various discoveries of mammalian fossils in
North America, especially in the old lake bottoms now forming what are
called the "bad lands" of Dakota and Nebraska, belonging to the Miocene
period. Here are found an enormous assemblage of remains, often perfect
skeletons, of herbivora and carnivora, as varied and interesting as
those from the localities already referred to in Europe; but altogether
distinct, and far exceeding, in number and variety of species of the
larger animals, the whole existing fauna of North America. Very similar
phenomena occur in South America and in Australia, leading us to the
conclusion that the earth at the present time is impoverished as regards
the larger animals, and that at each successive period of Tertiary time,
at all events, it contained a far greater number of species than now
inhabit it. The very richness and abundance of the remains which we find
in limited areas, serve to convince us how imperfect and fragmentary
must be our knowledge of the earth's fauna at any one past epoch; since
we cannot believe that all, or nearly all, of the animals which
inhabited any district were entombed in a single lake, or overwhelmed by
the floods of a single river.

But the spots where such rich deposits occur are exceedingly few and far
between when compared with the vast areas of continental land, and we
have every reason to believe that in past ages, as now, numbers of
curious species were rare or local, the commoner and more abundant
species giving a very imperfect idea of the existing series of animal
forms. Yet more important, as showing the imperfection of our knowledge,
is the enormous lapse of time between the several formations in which we
find organic remains in any abundance, so vast that in many cases we
find ourselves almost in a new world, all the species and most of the
genera of the higher animals having undergone a complete change.


_Causes of the Imperfection of the Geological Record._

These facts are quite in accordance with the conclusions of geologists
as to the necessary imperfection of the geological record, since it
requires the concurrence of a number of favourable conditions to
preserve any adequate representation of the life of a given epoch. In
the first place, the animals to be preserved must not die a natural
death by disease, or old age, or by being the prey of other animals, but
must be destroyed by some accident which shall lead to their being
embedded in the soil. They must be either carried away by floods, sink
into bogs or quicksands, or be enveloped in the mud or ashes of a
volcanic eruption; and when thus embedded they must remain undisturbed
amid all the future changes of the earth's surface.

But the chances against this are enormous, because denudation is always
going on, and the rocks we now find at the earth's surface are only a
small fragment of those which were originally laid down. The
alternations of marine and freshwater deposits, and the frequent
unconformability of strata with those which overlie them, tell us
plainly of repeated elevations and depressions of the surface, and of
denudation on an enormous scale. Almost every mountain range, with its
peaks, ridges, and valleys, is but the remnant of some vast plateau
eaten away by sub-aerial agencies; every range of sea-cliffs tell us of
long slopes of land destroyed by the waves; while almost all the older
rocks which now form the surface of the earth have been once covered
with newer deposits which have long since disappeared. Nowhere are the
evidences of this denudation more apparent than in North and South
America, where granitic or metamorphic rocks cover an area hardly less
than that of all Europe. The same rocks are largely developed in Central
Africa and Eastern Asia; while, besides those portions that appear
exposed on the surface, areas of unknown extent are buried under strata
which rest on them uncomformably, and could not, therefore, constitute
the original capping under which the whole of these rocks must once have
been deeply buried; because granite can only be formed, and metamorphism
can only go on, deep down in the crust of the earth. What an
overwhelming idea does this give us of the destruction of whole piles
of rock, miles in thickness and covering areas comparable with those of
continents; and how great must have been the loss of the innumerable
fossil forms which those rocks contained! In view of such destruction we
are forced to conclude that our palaeontological collections, rich
though they may appear, are really but small and random samples, giving
no adequate idea of the mighty series of organism which have lived upon
the earth.[183]

Admitting, however, the extreme imperfection of the geological record as
a whole, it may be urged that certain limited portions of it are fairly
complete--as, for example, the various Miocene deposits of India,
Europe, and North America,--and that in these we ought to find many
examples of species and genera linked together by intermediate forms. It
may be replied that in several cases this really occurs; and the reason
why it does not occur more often is, that the theory of evolution
requires that distinct genera should be linked together, not by a direct
passage, but by the descent of both from a common ancestor, which may
have lived in some much earlier age the record of which is either
wanting or very incomplete. An illustration given by Mr. Darwin will
make this more clear to those who have not studied the subject. The
fantail and pouter pigeons are two very distinct and unlike breeds,
which we yet know to have been both derived from the common wild
rock-pigeon. Now, if we had every variety of living pigeon before us, or
even all those which have lived during the present century, we should
find no intermediate types between these two--none combining in any
degree the characters of the pouter with that of the fantail. Neither
should we ever find such an intermediate form, even had there been
preserved a specimen of every breed of pigeon since the ancestral
rock-pigeon was first tamed by man--a period of probably several
thousand years. We thus see that a complete passage from one very
distinct species to another could not be expected even had we a complete
record of the life of any one period. What we require is a complete
record of all the species that have existed since the two forms began
to diverge from their common ancestor, and this the known imperfection
of the record renders it almost impossible that we should ever attain.
All that we have a right to expect is, that, as we multiply the fossil
forms in any group, the gaps that at first existed in that group shall
become less wide and less numerous; and also that, in some cases, a
tolerably direct series shall be found, by which the more specialised
forms of the present day shall be connected with more generalised
ancestral types. We might also expect that when a country is now
characterised by special groups of animals, the fossil forms that
immediately preceded them shall, for the most part, belong to the same
groups; and further, that, comparing the more ancient with the more
modern types, we should find indications of progression, the earlier
forms being, on the whole, lower in organisation, and less specialised
in structure than the later. Now evidence of evolution of these varied
kinds is what we do find, and almost every fresh discovery adds to their
number and cogency. In order, therefore, to show that the testimony
given by geology is entirely in favour of the theory of descent with
modification, some of the more striking of the facts will now be given.


_Geological Evidences of Evolution._

In an article in _Nature_ (vol. xiv. p. 275), Professor Judd calls
attention to some recent discoveries in the Hungarian plains, of fossil
lacustrine shells, and their careful study by Dr. Neumayr and M. Paul of
the Austrian Geological Survey. The beds in which they occur have
accumulated to the thickness of 2000 feet, containing throughout
abundance of fossils, and divisible into eight zones, each of which
exhibits a well-marked and characteristic fauna. Professor Judd then
describes the bearing of these discoveries as follows--

