"I heard her talking about 'the gentlemen,'" remarked Webb, laughing, as
they went up the steps of the bungalow together.

The Memorial was once more left to its shadows and silence. At the edge of
the compound a group of natives peered through the fencing, watching and
listening. Their dark faces expressed neither hatred nor admiration, nor
sorrow, nor pleasure--at most, a dull wonder.

When they were tired of watching, they passed noiselessly on their way.


CHAPTER III

NEHAL SINGH


The Royal apartment was prepared for the suffocating midday heat. Heavy
hangings had been pulled across the door which led on to the balcony, and
only at one small aperture the sunshine ventured to pierce through and
dance its golden reflection hither and thither over the marble floor. The
rest was hidden in the semi-obscurity of a starlit night, which, like a
transparent veil, half conceals and half reveals an untold richness and
splendor.

At either side slender Moorish pillars rose to the lofty ceiling, and from
their capitals winking points of light shimmered through the shadows.
Fantastic designs sprang into sudden prominence on the walls, shifting
with the shifting of the sunshine, and at the far end, raised by steps
from the level of the floor, stood a throne, alone marked out against the
darkness by its bejeweled splendor. Of other furniture there was no
trace. To the left a divan formed of silken cushions had been built up for
temporary use, and on this, stretched full length on his side, lay an old
man whose furrowed visage appeared doubly dark and sinister beneath the
dead white of his turban. His head was half supported on a pillow, and
thus at his ease he watched with unblinking, unflagging attention the
tall, slight figure by the doorway.

It was the Rajah himself who had let in the one point of daylight. It fell
full upon his face and set into a brilliant blaze the single diamond on
the nervous, muscular hand which held the curtain aside. Apparently he had
forgotten his companion, and indeed everything save the scene on which his
eyes rested. Beneath the balcony, like steps to a mighty altar, broad and
beautiful terraces descended in stately gradations to a paradise of rare
exotic flowers, whose heavy perfume came drifting up on the calm air to
the very windows of the palace. This lovely chaos extended for about a
mile and then ended abruptly. Although Fanny's good father and mother,
yielding to the prejudices of their day, had struggled to make housekeeping
her main interest, and music only her recreation, yet they had not
denied her musical genius a complete education.
Within a few hundred yards of
the palace a ruined Hindu temple lifted its dome and crumbling towers into
the intense blue of the sky. And on garden, jungle, and temple alike the
scorching midday sun blazed down with pitiless impartiality.

For an hour the Rajah had remained watching the unchanging scene, scarcely
for an instant shifting his own position. One hand rested on his hip, the
other held back the curtain and supported him in a half-leaning attitude
of dreamy indolence. Against the intensified darkness of the room behind
him his features stood out with the distinctness of a finely cut cameo. A
man of about twenty-five years, he yet seemed younger, thanks, perhaps, to
his expression, which was extraordinarily untroubled.

Thought, poetic and philosophic, but never tempestuous, sat in the dark,
well-shaped eyes and high, intellectual forehead. Humor, sorrow, care,
anxiety and doubt, the children of a strenuous life, had left his face
singularly unscarred with their characteristic lines. For the rest, beyond
that he was unusually fair, he represented in bearing and in feature a
Hindu prince of high caste and noble lineage. Between him and the old man
upon the divan there was no apparent resemblance. The latter was
considerably darker, and lacked both the refinement of feature and dignity
of expression which distinguished the younger man. Nevertheless, when he
spoke it was in the tone of familiarity, almost of paternal authority.

"Art thou not weary, my son?" he asked abruptly. "For an hour thou hast
neither moved nor spoken. Tell me with what thy thoughts are concerned. I
would fain know, and thy face has told me nothing."

Nehal Singh let the curtain fall back into its place, and the yellow patch
of sunshine upon the marble faded. He looked at his companion steadfastly,
but with eyes that saw nothing.

"My thoughts!" he repeated, in a low, musical voice. "My thoughts are
valueless. They are like caged birds which have beaten their wings against
the bars of their cage and now sit on their golden perches and dream of
the world beyond." He laughed gently. "No, my father. You, who have seen
the world, would mock at them as dim, unreal reflections of a reality
which you have touched and handled. For me they are beautiful enough."

The old man lifted himself on his elbow.

"Thinkest thou never of thyself?" he asked. "In thy dreams hast thou never
seen thine own form rise at the call of thy waiting people?"

"My waiting people!" Nehal Singh repeated, with a smile and a faint
lifting of the eyebrows. "No people wait for me, my father. So much I have
learned. I bear a title, a tract of land acknowledges my rule--but a
people! No, like my title, like my power, like myself, so is the people
that thou sayest await me--a dream, my father, a dream!" He spoke gravely,
without sadness, the same gentle, wistful smile playing about his lips.

The other sank back with a groan.

"The All-Highest pity me!" he exclaimed bitterly. "A child of blood and
battle, without energy, without ambition!"

Nehal Singh, who had paced forward to the foot of the throne, turned and
looked back.

"Ambition I have had," he answered, "energy I have had. Like my thoughts,
they have beaten themselves weary against the bars of their cage. What
would you have me do?" He strode back to the door, and, pulling aside the
curtain, let the full dazzling sunshine pour in upon them. "See out
there!" he cried. "Is it not a sight to bring peace to the soul of the
poet and the dreamer? But for the warrior? Can he draw his sword against
flowers and trees?"

The old man smiled coldly, but not without satisfaction.

"There is a world that awaiteth thee beyond," he said.

"A world of which I know nothing."

"The time cometh."

Nehal Singh studied the wrinkled face with a new intentness.

"Hitherto thou hast always held a barrier between the world and me," he
said. "When the call to the Durbar came, it was thou who bade me say I was
ill. When the Feringhi sought my presence, it was thou who held fast my
door, first with one excuse, then with another. And now? I do not
understand thee."

Behar Asor struggled up into a sitting posture, his features rendered more
malignant by a glow of fierce triumph.

"Ay, the barrier has been there!" he cried. "It is I who have held it
erect all these years when they thought me dead and powerless. It is I who
have kept thee spotless and undefiled, Nehal Singh, thou alone of all thy
race and of all thy caste! The shadow of the Unbeliever has never crossed
thy man's face, his food thy lips, nor has his hand touched thy man's
hand. Thou art the chosen of Brahma, and when the hour striketh and the
Holy War proclaimed from east to west and from north to south, then it
shall be _thy_ sword--"

Nehal Singh held up his hand with a gesture of command.

"Thou also art a dreamer," he said firmly. "Thy heart is full of an old
hatred and an old injury. My heart is free from both. Seest thou, my
father, there were years when thy words called up some echo in me. Thou
toldest me of the Feringhi, of the bloody battles thou foughtest against
them because they had wronged thee; how, after Fortune had smiled faintly,
thou wert driven into exile, and I, thy son, bereft of all save pomp and
title, placed upon thy empty throne. These things made my blood boil. In
those days I thought and planned for the great hour when I should seek
revenge for thee and for myself. That is all past."

"Why all past?" Behar Asor demanded.

"Because the truth drifted in to me from the outer world. I saw that
everywhere there was peace such as my land, even after thy account, has
rarely known. Law and order reigned where there had been plundering and
devastation, prosperity where there had been endless famine. More than
this, I saw that in every conflict, whether between beast and beast or man
and man, it was always the strongest and wisest that conquered. The
triumph of the fool and weakling is but a short one, nor is the rule of
crime and wickedness of long duration. Why, then, should I throw myself
against a people who have brought my people prosperity, and who have
proved themselves in peace and war our masters in courage and wisdom?"

Behar Asor struggled up, galvanized by a storm of passion which shook his
fragile frame from head to foot.

"Thou art still no more than an ignorant boy," he exclaimed. "What knowest
thou of these things?"

"I have read of Englishmen whose deeds outrival the legends of Krishna,"
Nehal Singh answered thoughtfully. "They fought in your time, my father.
Thou knowest them better than I."

The old man ground his teeth together.

"They are dead." There was a reluctant admiration in his tone.

"Nevertheless, their sons live."

"The sons inherit not always the courage of their fathers," Behar Asor
answered, with a bitter significance.

Nehal Singh had wandered back to the throne, as though drawn thither by
some irresistible attraction, and stood there motionless, his arms folded
across his breast.

"Do not blame me," he said at last. "No man can go against himself. Were
it in my power, I would do thy will. As it is, without cause or reason I
can not draw my sword against men whose fathers have made my heart beat
with sympathy and admiration."

Behar Asor sank back in an attitude of absolute despair.

"I am accursed!" he said.

With a smothered sigh, Nehal Singh mounted the steps and seated himself.
In his attitude also there was a hopelessness--not indeed the hopelessness
of a man whose plans are thwarted, but of one who is keenly conscious that
he has no plans, no goal, no purpose. As he sat there, his fine head
thrown back against the white ivory, his eyes half closed, his fingers
loosely clasping the golden peacocks' heads which formed the arms of his
throne, there was, as he had said, something dreamlike and unreal about
his whole person, intensified perhaps by the dim atmosphere and shadowy
splendor of his surroundings.

Behar Asor had ceased to watch him, but lay motionless, with his face
covered by the white mantle which he wore about his shoulders. The first
storm of angry disappointment over, he had relapsed into a passive
oriental acceptance of the inevitable, which did not, however, exclude an
undercurrent of bitter brooding and contempt.

Some time passed before either of the two men spoke. At last Behar Asor
lifted his head and glanced quickly sidewise at the figure seated on the
throne. Nehal Singh's eyes were now entirely closed and seemed to sleep.
Such a proceeding would have been excusable enough in the suffocating
heat, but the sight drove the old man into a fresh paroxysm of
indignation.

"Sleepest thou, Nehal Singh?" he demanded, in a harsh, rasping voice. "Is
it not sufficient that thou hast failed thy destiny, but in the same hour
thou must close thine eyes and dream, like a child on whose shoulders rest
no duty, no responsibility? Awake! I have more to say to thee."

Nehal Singh looked up.

"I have not slept," he said gravely, "though, as to what concerns duty and
responsibility, I might well have done so, for I have neither the one nor
the other. Speak, I pray thee. I listen."

Behar Asor remained silent a moment, biting his forefinger. There was
something in the action strongly reminiscent of a cunning, treacherous
animal.

"Thou hast laughed at thine own power," he said at last, "though I have
sworn to thee that, as in my time, so today, the swords that sleep in a
hundred thousand sheathes would awake at thy word. They sleep because thou
sleepest. Well--thou hast willed to sleep. I can not force thee, and mine
own hand has grown too feeble. But since thou hast chosen peace, remember
this, that it can last only with thy lifetime. So long thy people will be
patient. Afterward--" He shrugged his shoulders significantly.

"Thou hast more to tell me," Nehal Singh said.

"If thou wilt keep peace in thy land, see to it that thou hast children
who will carry it on for thee after thou hast passed into the shadow,"
Behar answered. "Hitherto thou hast led a strange and lonely life,
preparing as I willed for the destiny thou hast cast aside. Take now unto
thee a companion--a wife."

As though clumsy, untutored fingers which had until now tortured some fine
instrument had suddenly, perhaps by chance, perhaps by instinct, struck a
pure harmonious chord, Nehal Singh rose to his feet, his weary dreamer's
face transfigured with a new light and new energy.

"A wife!" he said under his breath. "A woman! I know nothing of women. In
all my life I have seen but two--my mother and a nautch-girl--who cringed
to me. I should not like my wife to cringe to me. Are there not such as
could be my companion, my comrade? Or are they all servile slaves?"

Behar Asor laughed shortly and contemptuously.

"They are our inferiors," he said, "hence they can not be more than
companions for our idle hours. But you will have idle hours enough, and
there would be many who would call themselves blessed to share themselves
with thee. A great alliance--"

Nehal Singh interrupted him with the old gesture of authority.

"Thou hast said enough, my father," he said. "I will think upon it. Until
then--leave me my peace."

With a slow, meditative step he went back to the curtained doorway and,
pulling aside the hangings, went out on to the balcony. It was four
o'clock, and already the heat of the day had broken. Long rays of sunlight
struck eastward across the garden and touched with their faded golden
fingers the topmost turrets of the temple. In the distance the shadows of
the jungle had advanced and, like the waves of a rising tide, seemed to
swallow up, step by step, the brightness of the prospect. Nehal Singh
descended the winding stair that led to the first terrace. Thence three
paths stretched themselves before him. He chose the central one, and with
bowed head passed between the high, half-wild, half-cultivated borders of
plants and shrubs. A faint evening breeze breathed its intangible perfume
against his cheek, and he looked up smiling.

"A woman!" he murmured dreamily. "A woman!"


CHAPTER IV

CIRCE


The dominion over which Rajah Nehal Singh exercised his partial authority
was a tract of unfruitful land extending over about two hundred square
miles and sparely inhabited by a branch of the Aryan race which through
countless generations had kept itself curiously aloof from its neighbors.
The greater number were Hindus of the strictest type, and perhaps owing to
their natural conservatism they had succeeded in keeping their religion
comparatively free from the abuses and distortions which it was forced to
undergo in other regions. Up to the year l8--the state had been to all
practical purposes independent. Its poverty and unusual integral cohesion
made it at once a dangerous enemy and an undesirable dependent, which it
was tacitly agreed to let alone until such time when action should become
imperative. That time had come under the reign of Behar Asor--then Behar
Singh. This prince, who, his followers declared, could trace his descent
from Brahma himself, unexpectedly, after he had been living in
hand-in-glove friendship with his European neighbors, proclaimed a Holy
War, massacred all foreigners within his reach, and for eighteen long
months succeeded, by means of a species of guerrilla warfare, in keeping
the invading armies at bay. Partly owing to the unflagging determination
of the English troops, partly owing also to the intense hatred with which
he was regarded by all Mohammedans, he was eventually overcome, though he
himself was never captured. It was believed that he died while fleeing
through the vast jungles with which his land was overgrown, and this idea
was strengthened by the fact that, though a large reward for his capture
was offered, nothing further had ever been heard of him.

From that time the land came under the more or less direct control of the
Government. As a concession to the population, Behar Singh's one-year-old
son was placed upon the throne under a native regency, but English
regiments were stationed at the chief towns, and a political agent resided
at the capital. Neither the regiments nor the political agent, however,
found any work for their hands to do. A calm, as unexpected as it was
complete, seemed to descend upon the whole country, and the officers who
had taken up their posts with a loaded revolver in each hand, figuratively
speaking, began very quickly to relapse instead into pig-sticking, polo
and cards.

The climate was moderate, the vegetation beautiful if unprofitable, and
the sport excellent. Thus it came about that a danger spot on the map of
the Indian Empire became a European paradise, and that to be ordered to
Marut was to become an object of envious congratulations. Not, as Mr.
Archibald Travers had with justice complained, that the reigning prince,
as in other states, took any part in the general gaiety or in any way
enhanced the agreeableness of his capital. Little Wolfgang had played
before Maria Theresa; now he performed before her ally, Madame de
Pompadour, then within a few months of her end, for the all-powerful
favourite of Louis XV. died in the following April. Leopold Mozart,
writing home to Salzburg, speaks thus of the Pompadour; "She must have
been very beautiful, for she is still comely.
She is tall and stately; stout, but well proportioned, with some
likeness to her Imperial Majesty about the eyes. She is proud, and has
a remarkable mind." Mozart's sister remembered in after days how she
placed little Wolfgang on the table before her, but pushed him aside when
he bent forward to kiss her, on which he indignantly asked: "Who is this
that does not want to kiss me? The empress kissed me."Fabulous stories were told of the beauty and rarity of the
vegetation, and of the value of the jewels which were supposed to decorate
the temple and royal apartments. As there was no opportunity of confirming
or refuting the statements, they were allowed to grow unhindered.

It was in this small sphere that Nehal Singh spent his childhood, his
youth and early manhood. Of the outer world he had seen nothing, though he
had read much, his education extending over all European history and
penetrating deep into that of his own country. Nevertheless, the picture
his mind had formed had little in common with the reality--it was too
overshadowed by his own character. As a blind man may be able, through
hearsay, to describe his surroundings detail by detail and yet at the
bottom be possessed by an entirely false conception, so Nehal Singh, to
all appearances well instructed, was in reality as ignorant as a child.
The heroes whose figures peopled his imagination were too heroic, the
villains too evil, and both heroes and villains were either physically
beautiful or hideous, according to their characters.

He had no comrade against whose practical experience he might have rubbed
this distorted picture into a more truthful likeness. His only companions
had been his native instructors and the priests--men separated from him by
a gulf of years and a curious lack of sympathy which he had in vain
striven to overcome. Thus he had been intensely lonely, more lonely than
he knew, though some dawning realization crept over him on this particular
evening as he passed through the temple gates. For a moment he stood with
his hands crossed over his breast, absorbed in prayer to Brahma, the
Creator, in whose presence he was about to stand. In such an hour, amidst
the absolute stillness, under the stupendous shadows of the walls, which
had, unchanging, seen generation after generation of worshipers drift from
their altars into the deeper shades of Patala, the young prince felt the
wings of divine spirits brush close past him, bearing his prayer on unseen
hands to the very ear of the golden-faced Trinity who, from his earliest
years, had seemed to look down upon him with solemn kindness.

This evening, more perhaps than ever before, every fiber in him vibrated
beneath the touch of the holy charm, and the prayer which passed
soundlessly over his lips came from a soul that worshiped in fiery
earnestness and truth. A minute passed as he stood there, then, removing
his shoes, he stepped over the threshold and walked forward between the
gigantic granite columns which supported what was left of the dome-shaped
roof. There was no altar, no jewel, no figure cut in the hard stone that
was not known to him with all their mysterious significance. Here had been
spent all his leisure hours; here had been dreamed his wildest dreams;
beneath this column he had seen as in a vision how Vishnu took nine times
human form and a tenth time came, according to the Holy Writings, with a
winged horse of spotless white, and crowned as conqueror.

To-day these things pressed down upon him with all the weight of a
tremendous reality. With beating heart he entered at last into the Holy of
Holies and stood before the god's high altar, visible only to those of
purest caste. His head was once more bowed. He did not venture to look up
at the golden figure whose ruby eyes, he knew, stared straight through his
soul into every corner of the world and beyond into Eternity. His belief,
pure, unsoiled from contact with the world, was a power that had gone out
into the darkness and conjured thence the spirits that shrank back from
the cold prayer of the half-believer. They stood before him now--these
wonderful spirits. He believed surely that, should he dare to raise his
eyes, he would see them, definite yet formless, arising glorious out of
the cloud of golden reflection from Brahma's threefold forehead.

Thus he prayed, not kneeling, since the god cared only for his soul:

"Oh, Lord Brahma, Creator, hear me! Thou who madest me knowest whither I
came and whither I go; but I, who am as the wind that bloweth as thou
listeth, as a flower that springeth up in the night and unseen fadeth in
the midday heat, I know not thy purpose nor the end for which I am. Lord
Brahma, teach me, for my soul panteth after knowledge. Show me the path
which I must tread, for I am weary with dreams. Teach me to serve my
people--be it hand in hand with the Stranger and his gods, be it alone.
Teach me to act, and that right soon; for my childhood days are spent and
my man's arm heavy with idleness. Send me forth--but not alone--not alone,
Lord Brahma, for I am heart-sick of loneliness. Give me my comrade, my
comrade who shall be more to me than--"

He stopped and, obeying an impulse stronger than himself, lifted his face
to the idol. It had vanished. In its place stood a woman.

At another and cooler moment, with a mind filled with other thoughts, with
a heart untroubled by new and all-powerful emotions, he would have known
her, if only from hearsay, for what she was. But with that passionate
prayer upon his lips, she was for him the answer, a divine recognition of
his need and of his lately recognized loneliness.

Tall, slender, with a pale, transparent complexion, touched like a young
rose with the faintest color, dark, grave eyes and hair that seemed a part
of the obscured god, whose pure lines, though foreign, harmonized in every
detail with the classic beauty of her surroundings, she stood and watched
him, as he watched her, in perfect silence.

"Lakshmi!" he murmured at last; and, as though the one word had broken a
charm which held them both paralyzed, she smiled, and the smile lit up the
Madonna face and made it as human as it had seemed divine.

[Illustration: "Lakshmi!" he murmured at last.]

"Forgive me," she began, speaking in English, "I am afraid I have
disturbed you, but--" She paused, apparently confused by the directness of
his gaze. The faint pink upon her cheek deepened.

"Who are you?" he demanded in his own tongue.

Her look of non-comprehension steadied him, at least outwardly, though it
did not check the fierce, painful beating of his pulses. He repeated the
question in pure though hesitating English.

"I am an Englishwoman," she answered at once, "and have lost my way. For
hours--it seems hours, at any rate--I have been wandering hither and
thither, trying to find my party, with whom I was enjoying an excursion.
By some chance I came across this temple, and hoped to meet some one who
might help me. You see, I am a stranger in this part of the world. I--I
hope I have done no wrong?"

She looked at him pleadingly, but he ignored her question. It never
occurred to him to doubt her explanation, or wonder at the unlikeliness of
the chance which should have led her through the intricate paths to this
hallowed spot.

"You are English?" he echoed. The fever in his blood was subsiding, but,
like some great crisis, it was leaving him changed. It had swept him out
of the world of languorous, enchanted dreams into a world of not less
enchanted reality.

"I fear I am presumptuous," she began again; "but are you not the Rajah?
If so, I am certain you must be very, very angry. For the Rajah--so I have
been told--does not love the English."

She smiled again, meeting his unwavering gaze with a frank good-humor
which for him was more wonderful even than her beauty. No woman--and for
that matter, no man--had ever dared to look him in the eyes with such a
laughing, fearless challenge.

"Yes, I am the Rajah," he answered. Then, after a pause, he added with
great simplicity, "You are very beautiful."

She laughed outright, and the laugh, which rang like the peal of a silver
bell through the vaulted chamber, filled him with a sudden sense of her
danger. She stood with her back turned indifferently on the golden image,
an Unbeliever whose shod feet were defiling the sacred precincts, an
object, then, for hatred and revenge--not for him, truly. In his eyes she
was still an emissary from Brahma, and thus in herself half sacred; but he
knew well enough that such would not be the opinion of the few fierce
priests who worshiped in the temple.

"You are not safe here," he said, with an energy which was new to him.
"Come!"

He led her hurriedly out of the sanctuary into the great entrance hall.
There he slackened speed and waited until she reached his side.

"For a foreigner it is not safe to enter the temple," he explained. "Had
any one but myself found you, I could not answer for the consequences."

"They would have harmed me?"

"It is possible."

"That would have been terrible!" she said, glancing at him with eyes that
expressed rather a daring courage than fear.

"Most terrible," he assented earnestly.

"Yet--you also, Your Highness, you have also the same reasons for anger.
My intrusion, innocent though it was, must have been equally offensive to
you."

We have the adventurous fancy that gives us "A Gentleman of France,"
"The Master of Ballantrae," "Micah Clarke," "The Raiders," "The
Prisoner of Zenda," and the truly primeval or troglodyte imagination
which, as we read of a fight between a knob-nosed Kaffir dwarf and
a sacred crocodile, brings us in touch with the first hearers of
Heracles's or Beowulf's or Grettir's deeds, "so strange that the
jaws of the listeners fall apart."

Thus we possess outlets for escape from ourselves and from to-day.
The
touch sent a flood of fire through his young veins. He drew back with a
courtesy which surprised himself. He had never been taught that courtesy
toward a woman could ever be required of him. Of women he had heard little
save that they were inferior, in intellect and judgment no more than
slaves, and his curiosity had at once been satiated. He sought things
above him--those beneath him excited no more than indifference. But this
woman was neither an inferior nor a slave. Her free, erect carriage,
steadfast, fearless eyes proclaimed the equal. So much his instinct taught
him in those brief moments, and his eager curiosity concerning her grew
and deepened. Every now and again his gaze sought her face, drinking in
with an almost passionate thirst the fine detail of her profile, compared
to which his dreams were poor and lifeless. Once it chanced that she also
glanced at him, and that they looked at each other for less than a
breathing space full in the eyes.

"I fear you are angry, Your Highness," she said earnestly. "I must have
offended against your laws even more than I know."

"Why do you think I am angry?" he asked.

"You have scarcely spoken."

"Forgive me! That is no sign of anger. I am still overcome with the
strangeness of it all. You are the first English person I have ever met."

She stood still, with an exclamation of surprise.

"Is that possible? I thought all Indian princes mixed with English people.
Many, indeed, go to England to be educated--"

"So I have heard," he broke in, with a faint haughtiness. "I am not one of
them."

"Yet you speak the language so perfectly!" she said.

A gleam of naive pleasure shone out of his dark eyes.

"I am glad you think so. My--one of my ministers taught me."

They walked on again. Here and there she stopped to look at some curious
plant--always a little in advance of him--so that he had opportunity to
study the hundred things about her which confirmed his wondering,
increasing admiration. Slight as she was, there was yet a gracefully
controlled strength in every movement. In his own mind, poor as it
necessarily was in comparisons, he compared her to a young doe he had once
startled from its resting-place. There was the same fragile beauty, the
same grace, the same high-strung energy. In nothing was she like the women
painted for him by his father's hand--things for idle, sensuous pleasure,
never for serious action.

Plunged in a happy confusion of thought, he had once more relapsed into
silence, from which she startled him with a question evidently connected
with their previous conversation.

"And so you have lived all your life in this lovely garden?" she said,
looking up at him with a grave wonder in her eyes.

"All my life," he answered.

"You have never seen anything of the world?"

"Never." He felt the pity in her tone, and added, with a shamefacedness
curiously in contrast with his former hauteur: "But I have read much."

"That is not the same thing," she returned. "No book could make you
understand how wonderful and beautiful things are."

He looked at her, and for a second time their eyes met.

"You are right," he said. "Hitherto I have thought myself all-wise. I have
studied hard, and I believed there was nothing I did not know. Now I see
that there are wonders in the world of which I have never even dreamed."

Her glance wavered beneath the undisguised admiration in his eyes and
voice. Then she asked gently:

"Now that you have seen, will you not leave your hermitage? Surely it is
wrong to shut one's heart against the world in which one lives. There is
so much work to be done, so much to learn, and you have been granted power
and wealth, Your Highness. The call upon your help is greater than upon
others."

His brows knitted.

"Do you hate us so?" she asked.

"Hate you?" he repeated wonderingly. "Why should I hate you?"

"Yet, from your tone, I judged that you had kept seclusion because
intercourse with my country-people meant defilement," she said boldly.

A flush crept up under his dark skin.

"Those are things I can not explain," he said; "but they have nothing to
do with hatred. I have heard much of the English heroes. Their deeds of
daring and self-sacrifice have filled my heart with love and veneration. I
know that they are the greatest and noblest people of the earth. I love
great and noble people. I do not hate them."

"I am glad," she said.

They had reached the gates which opened out on to the highroad, and as
though by mutual consent both came to a standstill.

"Your Highness has been most good to me," she went on. "I can find my way
perfectly now. I am only puzzled to know how I should ever have lost it so
much as to have wandered into your garden."

"Some sentry must have slept," he remarked grimly.

"But you will not punish any one?"

"Whoever it was, he was only the servant of destiny, like us all," he
said. "No harm shall come to him." He paused, and then added with a slight
effort: "One of the sentries shall accompany you."

"No, no," she answered energetically. "That is not necessary. I would
rather go alone."

He pointed upward to the sky, whose blue was deepening into the violet
shades of night.

"It will be dark before you reach your destination," he said. "Are you not
afraid?"

She laughed merrily.

"Of what should I be afraid? There are no maneaters about here, as I
understand. As for men, I am prepared to encounter at least six of them.
Look!" She drew from the bosom of her dress a small revolver of exquisite
workmanship, and held it out to him. "It has all six chambers loaded," she
added.

He took the weapon, pretending to examine it; but his pulses had
recommenced their painful beating, and he saw nothing but her face.

"Are all Englishwomen so brave and beautiful?"

This time she did not laugh at the simplicity of the question.

"Come and see," she answered boldly. He said nothing, and she went on: "At
any rate, I must go now. My people will be very anxious, and I have so
much to tell them. They will envy me the privilege I have enjoyed of
seeing your wonderful gardens. I shall tell them how kind you have been to
a foolish wanderer."

"If the gardens please you, they are always open to you," he said.

She shook her head sadly.

"I am afraid it is not possible. You see, I could not come alone.
Propriety will forgive me this once, because it was an accident--a second
time, and my reputation would be gone for ever." She held out her hand
frankly. "So it must be good-by for ever!"

An instant he hesitated, torn between a deep ingrained principle and
desire. Then he took the small hand in his own.

"It will not be good-by for ever," he said. "We shall meet again."

"I should be glad. We have been quite good friends, haven't we? But you
see, you will be in a garden into which I may not enter, and I in a world
which for you is forbidden ground. I am afraid there is no hope."

"Nevertheless, we shall meet again," he repeated.

"Why are you so certain?"

He smiled dreamily.

"Nothing in this world happens without purpose," he answered. "So much my
books and eyes have taught me. We do not drift aimlessly into each other's
lives. We are borne on the breast of a strong current which flows out of
the river of Fate, and whether we meet for good or evil is according to
the will of God. But of one thing I am sure: it must be for good or evil."

For a moment she said nothing. Her face was turned away from him, and when
at last she spoke, her voice had lost something of its daring certainty.

"I hope, then, our meeting is for our good," she said.

"I feel that it is," he answered.

He led her past the bewildered, terrified sentry on to the grey, dusty
highroad. It was the first time that his feet had crossed the threshold.

"I shall watch you till you are out of sight," he said. "Good-by."

"Good-by--and thank you!"

According to his word, he stood where she had left him, his eyes fixed
immovably, like those of a bronze statue, on the slight, elastic figure,
as it hurried toward the lights of the distant Station. When at last the
purple mist had swallowed her from his sight, he looked up toward the
heavens.

Just where the mist ended and the clear sky began, the evening star rose
in its first splendor and shone through the dry atmosphere, signaling to
its fellows that night was come. One by one others followed. As time
passed, the moon in a cloud of silver lifted herself in stately progress
above the black outline of the jungle and touched with her first beams the
filigree minarets of the temple.

Nehal Singh bowed his head in prayer.

"Oh, Lord Brahma, I thank thee!"

A short-lived breath of evening air caught up the passionate murmur of his
voice and mingled it with the rustling of the Sacred Tree whose restless,
shimmering, silver leaves hung above his head. He understood their whisper
as he listened. It was the accents of the god to whom he prayed, and all
the poetic mysticism of his nature responded to the call.

"Oh, Lord Brahma, Creator, I thank thee!" he repeated; then turned, and
with head still bowed, passed back through the high marble gates.


Such a reply did not satisfy "my lord," who declared that his opinion
of the composition as ungrammatical and faulty would be unchanged
unless Haydn could give him some better reason for his innovations
and errors.

This nettled Haydn, who suggested that the pupil (?)

"Missy look wonderful
to-night--wonderful!"

Beatrice examined herself carefully and critically, without any show of
impatience. Only a close observer would have noticed that her eyes had the
strained, concentrated look of a person whose thoughts are centered
elsewhere than on the immediate subject.

"Yes, that will do," she assented, after a moment. "You have done extra
well to-night. You can go."

"Not help missy with dress?"

"No, you can go. I shall only want you again when I come back."

The ayah fidgeted with the garments that lay scattered about the room, but
an imperative gesture hastened her exit, and she slipped silently from the
room, drawing the curtains after her.

Beatrice watched her departure in the glass, and then, turning in her
chair, looked at the languid, exhausted figure upon the couch.

"Now, if you have anything to say, mother, say it," she said. "We are
quite alone."

"I have a great deal to say," Mrs. Cary began, in a tone of extreme
injury, "and first of all, I must ask you not to interrupt me in the way
you did just now before the--the what-do-you-call-it?--the ayah. I can not
and will not stand being corrected before my own servants."

"I did not correct you," Beatrice returned coldly. "I stopped you from
making disclosures to ears which know enough English to understand more
than is good for either of us, and whose discretion is on a par with that
of our late friend, Mary Jane. It seems impossible to make you realize
that English is not a dead language."

