"Well, gentlemen, are we ready?" said Mr. Stickatit again. They were
all ready, and so Mr. Stickatit began.

I will not give an acute critic any opportunity for telling me that
the will, as detailed by me, was all illegal. I have not by me the
ipsissima verba; nor can I get them now, as I am very far from
Doctors' Commons. So I will give no verbal details at all.

The will, moreover, was very long--no less than fifteen folios. And
that amount, though it might not be amiss in a three-volume edition,
would be inconvenient when the book comes to be published for
eighteen-pence. But the gist of the will was as follows.

It was dated in the October last gone by, at the time when George was
about to start for Egypt, and when Lady Harcourt had already left her
husband. It stated that he, George Bertram, senior, of Hadley, being
in full use of all his mental faculties, made this as his last will
and testament. And then he willed and devised--

Firstly, that George Stickatit, junior, of the firm of Day and
Stickatit, and George Bertram, junior, his nephew, should be his
executors; and that a thousand pounds each should be given to them,
provided they were pleased to act in that capacity.

When Sir Lionel heard that George was named as one of the executors,
he looked up at his son triumphantly; but when the thousand pounds
were named, his face became rather long, and less pleasant than
usual. A man feels no need to leave a thousand pounds to an executor
if he means to give him the bulk of his fortune.

Secondly, he left three hundred pounds a year for life to his
dear, old, trusty servant, Samuel Pritchett. Mr. Pritchett put his
handkerchief up to his face, and sobbed audibly. But he would sooner
have had two or three thousand pounds; for he also had an ambition to
leave money behind him.

Thirdly, he bequeathed five hundred pounds a year for life to Mary
Baker, late of Littlebath, and now of Hadley; and the use of the
house at Hadley if she chose to occupy it. Otherwise, the house was
to be sold, and the proceeds were to go to his estate.

Sir Lionel, when he heard this, made a short calculation in his mind
whether it would now be worth his while to marry Miss Baker; and he
decided that it would not be worth his while.

Fourthly, he gave to his executors above-named a sum of four thousand
pounds, to be invested by them in the Three per Cent. Consols, for
the sole use and benefit of his granddaughter, Caroline Harcourt. And
the will went on to say, that he did this, although he was aware that
sufficient provision had already been made for his granddaughter,
because he feared that untoward events might make it expedient that
she should have some income exclusively her own.

Sir Henry, when this paragraph was read--this paragraph from which
his own name was carefully excluded--dashed his fist down upon the
table, so that the ink leaped up out of the inkstand that stood
before the lawyer, and fell in sundry blots upon the document. But
no one said anything. There was blotting-paper at hand, and Mr.
Stickatit soon proceeded.

In its fifth proviso, the old man mentioned his nephew George. "I
wish it to be understood," he said, "that I love my nephew, George
Bertram, and appreciate his honour, honesty, and truth." Sir Lionel
once more took heart of grace, and thought that it might still be
all right. And George himself felt pleased; more pleased than he had
thought it possible that he should have been at the reading of that
will. "But," continued the will, "I am not minded, as he is himself
aware, to put my money into his hands for his own purposes." It then
went on to say, that a further sum of four thousand pounds was given
to him as a token of affection.

Sir Lionel drew a long breath. After all, five thousand pounds was
the whole sum total that was rescued out of the fire. What was five
thousand pounds? How much could he expect to get from such a sum as
that? Perhaps, after all, he had better take Miss Baker. But then her
pittance was only for her life. How he did hate his departed brother
at that moment!

Poor Pritchett wheezed and sighed again. "Ah!" said he to himself.
"Half a million of money gone; clean gone! But he never would take my
advice!"

But George felt now that he did not care who looked at him, who
commiserated him. The will was all right. He did not at that moment
wish it to be other than that the old man had made it. After all
their quarrels, all their hot words and perverse thoughts towards
each other, it was clear to him now that his uncle had, at any rate,
appreciated him. He could hear the remainder of it quite unmoved.

There were some other legacies to various people in the City, none of
them being considerable in amount. The time has come to assert
ourselves and put a stop to their stuck-up nonsense. Perhaps if we
had nothing better to do than talking or writing, we could do it
better than they.

Anyhow, theyre the failures and refuse of business (hardly a man
of them that didnt begin in an office) and we're the successes of
it.
Thank God I havnt failed yet at anything; and I dont believe I
should fail at literature if it would pay me to turn my hand
to it.
BENTLEY. Hear, hear!

MRS TARLETON.Now Mr. Bertram had been a member of
the Honourable Company of Fishmongers.

And that was the end of the will. And Mr. Stickatit, having completed
the reading, folded it up, and put it back into the envelope. Sir
Henry, the moment the reading was over, again dashed his fist upon
the table. "As heir-at-law," said he, "I shall oppose that document."

"I think you'll find it all correct," said Mr. Stickatit, with a
little smile.

"And I think otherwise, sir," said the late solicitor-general, in a
voice that made them all start. "Very much otherwise. That document
is not worth the paper on which it is written. And now, I warn you
two, who have been named as executors, that such is the fact."

Sir Lionel began to consider whether it would be better for him that
the will should be a will, or should not be a will. Till he had done
so, he could not determine with which party he would side. If that
were no will, there might be a previous one; and if so, Bertram
might, according to that, be the heir. "It is a very singular
document," said he; "very singular."

But Sir Henry wanted no allies--wanted no one in that room to side
with him. Hostility to them all was his present desire; to them
and to one other--that other one who had brought upon him all this
misfortune; that wife of his bosom, who had betrayed his interests
and shattered his hopes.

"I believe there is nothing further to detain us at the present
moment," said Mr. Stickatit. "Mr. Bertram, perhaps you can allow me
to speak to you somewhere for five minutes?"

"I shall act," said George.

"Oh, of course. That's of course," said Stickatit. "And I also."

"Stop one moment, gentlemen," shouted Harcourt again. "I hereby give
you both warning that you have no power to act."

"Perhaps, sir," suggested Stickatit, "your lawyer will take any steps
he may think necessary?"

"My lawyer, sir, will do as I bid him, and will require no suggestion
from you. And now I have another matter to treat of. Mr. Bertram,
where is Lady Harcourt?"

Bertram did not answer at once, but stood with his back still against
the chimney-piece, thinking what answer he would give.

"Where, I say, is Lady Harcourt? Let us have no juggling, if you
please. You will find that I am in earnest."

"I am not Lady Harcourt's keeper," said George, in a very low tone of
voice.

"No, by G----! Nor shall you be. Where is she? If you do not answer
my question, I shall have recourse to the police at once."

Sir Lionel, meaning to make things pleasant, now got up, and went
over to his son. He did not know on what footing, with reference to
each other, his son and Lady Harcourt now stood; but he did know that
they had loved each other, and been betrothed for years; he did know,
also, that she had left her husband, and that that husband and his
son had been the closest friends. It was a great opportunity for
him to make things pleasant. He had not the slightest scruple as to
sacrificing that "dear Caroline" whom he had so loved as his future
daughter-in-law.

"George," said he, "if you know where Lady Harcourt is, it will be
better that you should tell Sir Henry. No properly-thinking man will
countenance a wife in disobeying her husband."

"Father," said George, "Lady Harcourt is not in my custody. She is
the judge of her own actions in this matter."

"Is she?" said Sir Henry. "She must learn to know that she is not;
and that very shortly. Do you mean to tell me where she is?"

"I mean to tell you nothing about her, Sir Henry."

"George, you are wrong," said Sir Lionel. "If you know where Lady
Harcourt is, you are bound to tell him. I really think you are."

"I am bound to tell him nothing, father; nor will I. I will have no
conversation with him about his wife. It is his affair and hers--and
that, perhaps, of a hundred other people; but it certainly is not
mine. Nor will I make it so."

"Then you insist on concealing her?" said Sir Henry.

"I have nothing to do with her. I do not know that she is concealed
at all."

"You know where she is?"

"I do. But, believing as I do that she would rather not be disturbed,
I shall not say where you would find her."

"I think you ought, George."

"Father, you do not understand this matter."

"You will not escape in that way, sir. Here you are named as her
trustee in this will--"

"I am glad that you acknowledge the will, at any rate," said Mr.
Stickatit.

"Who says that I acknowledge it? I acknowledge nothing in the will.
But it is clear, from that document, that she presumes herself to be
under his protection. It is manifest that that silly fool intended
that she should be so. Now I am not the man to put up with this. I
ask you once more, Mr. Bertram, will you tell me where I shall find
Lady Harcourt?"

"No, I will not."

"Very well; then I shall know how to act. Gentlemen, good-morning.
Mr. Stickatit, I caution you not to dispose, under that will, of
anything of which Mr. Bertram may have died possessed." And so
saying, he took up his hat, and left the house.

And what would he have done had Bertram told him that Lady Harcourt
was staying at Mr. Jones's, in the red brick house on the other side
of the Green? What can any man do with a recusant wife? We have often
been told that we should build a golden bridge for a flying enemy.
And if any one can be regarded as a man's enemy, it is a wife who is
not his friend.

After a little while, Sir Lionel went away with Mr. Pritchett.
Bertram asked them both to stay for dinner, but the invitation was
not given in a very cordial manner. At any rate, it was not accepted.

"Good-bye, then, George," said Sir Lionel. "I suppose I shall see you
before I leave town. I must say, you have made a bad affair of this
will."

"Good-bye, Mr. George; good-bye," said Mr. Pritchett. "Make my
dutiful compliments to Miss Baker--and to the other lady."

"Yes, I will, Mr. Pritchett."

"Ah, dear! well. You might have had it all, instead of the
fishmongers' children, if you had chosen, Mr. George."

