Produced by David Widger


CAPTAINS ALL

By W.W. Jacobs


BOB'S REDEMPTION

[Illustration: "Bob's Redemption."]

"GRATITOODE!" said the night-watchman, with a hard laugh.  "_Hmf!_  Don't
talk to me about gratitoode; I've seen too much of it.  If people wot
I've helped in my time 'ad only done arf their dooty--arf, mind you--I
should be riding in my carriage."

Forgetful of the limitations of soap-boxes he attempted to illustrate his
remark by lolling, and nearly went over backwards.  Recovering himself by
an effort he gazed sternly across the river and smoked fiercely.  It was
evident that he was brooding over an ill-used past.

'Arry Thomson was one of them, he said, at last.  For over six months I
wrote all 'is love-letters for him, 'e being an iggernerant sort of man
and only being able to do the kisses at the end, which he always insisted
on doing 'imself: being jealous.  They had now shifted from her husband
away. The doctors predicted an improvement, but the Marquis did not
believe in these conjectures, founded on prophecies. Like all people,
for whom the joy of life no longer has, perhaps, saw in death a happy
deliverance. In the beginning of 1819, life was cruel to them
than ever before. At the moment, where they enjoyed the negative
happiness, the they knew had won, she looked terrible abyss before:
her husband had gradually weaned her.

This is so cool a warm and very selfish love could bring more misery
than they bar fine at all, and all wisdom could foresee.
We 'ad words about it--naturally--and I did
ruin it then to the extent of a couple o' ribs.  I went to see 'im in the
horsepittle--place I've always been fond of--and the langwidge he used to
me was so bad that they sent for the Sister to 'ear it.

That's on'y two out of dozens I could name.  Arf the unpleasantnesses in
my life 'ave come out of doing kindnesses to people, and all the
gratitoode I've 'ad for it I could put in a pint-pot with a pint o' beer
already in it.

The only case o' real gratitoode I ever heard of 'appened to a shipmate
o' mine--a young chap named Bob Evans.  Coming home from Auckland in a
barque called the _Dragon Fly_ he fell overboard, and another chap named
George Crofts, one o' the best swimmers I ever knew, went overboard arter
'im and saved his life.

We was hardly moving at the time, and the sea was like a duck pond, but
to 'ear Bob Evans talk you'd ha' thought that George Crofts was the
bravest-'arted chap that ever lived.  He 'adn't liked him afore, same as
the rest of us, George being a sly, mean sort o' chap; but arter George
'ad saved his life 'e couldn't praise 'im enough.  He said that so long
as he 'ad a crust George should share it, and wotever George asked 'im he
should have.

The unfortnit part of it was that George took 'im at his word, and all
the rest of the v'y'ge he acted as though Bob belonged to 'im, and by the
time we got into the London river Bob couldn't call his soul 'is own.  He
used to take a room when he was ashore and live very steady, as 'e was
saving up to get married, and as soon as he found that out George invited
'imself to stay with him.

"It won't cost you a bit more," he ses, "not if you work it properly."

Bob didn't work it properly, but George having saved his life, and never
letting 'im forget it, he didn't like to tell him so.  He thought he'd
let 'im see gradual that he'd got to be careful because of 'is gal, and
the fust evening they was ashore 'e took 'im along with 'im there to tea.

Gerty Mitchell--that was the gal's name--'adn't heard of Bob's accident,
and when she did she gave a little scream, and putting 'er arms round his
neck, began to kiss 'im right in front of George and her mother.

"You ought to give him one too," ses Mrs. Mitchell, pointing to George.

George wiped 'is mouth on the back of his 'and, but Gerty pretended not
to 'ear.

"Fancy if you'd been drownded!" she ses, hugging Bob agin.

"He was pretty near," ses George, shaking his 'ead.  "I'm a pore swimmer,
but I made up my mind either to save 'im or else go down to a watery
grave myself."

He wiped his mouth on the back of his 'and agin, but all the notice Gerty
took of it was to send her young brother Ted out for some beer.  Then
they all 'ad supper together, and Mrs. Mitchell drank good luck to George
in a glass o' beer, and said she 'oped that 'er own boy would grow up
like him.  "Let 'im grow up a good and brave man, that's all I ask," she
ses.  "I don't care about 'is looks."

"He might have both," ses George, sharp-like.  "Why not?"

Mrs. Mitchell said she supposed he might, and then she cuffed young Ted's
ears for making a noise while 'e was eating, and then cuffed 'im agin for
saying that he'd finished 'is supper five minutes ago.

George and Bob walked 'ome together, and all the way there George said
wot a pretty gal Gerty was and 'ow lucky it was for Bob that he 'adn't
been drownded.  He went round to tea with 'im the next day to Mrs.
Mitchell's, and arter tea, when Bob and Gerty said they was going out to
spend the evening together, got 'imself asked too.

They took a tram-car and went to a music-hall, and Bob paid for the three
of 'em.  George never seemed to think of putting his 'and in his pocket,
and even arter the music-hall, when they all went into a shop and 'ad
stewed eels, he let Bob pay.

As I said afore, Bob Evans was chock-full of gratefulness, and it seemed
only fair that he shouldn't grumble at spending a little over the man wot
'ad risked 'is life to save his; but wot with keeping George at his room,
and paying for 'im every time they went out, he was spending a lot more
money than 'e could afford.

"You're on'y young once, Bob," George said to him when 'e made a remark
one arternoon as to the fast way his money was going, "and if it hadn't
ha' been for me you'd never 'ave lived to grow old."

Wot with spending the money and always 'aving George with them when they
went out, it wasn't long afore Bob and Gerty 'ad a quarrel.  "I don't
like a pore-spirited man," she ses.  "Two's company and three's none,
and, besides, why can't he pay for 'imself?  He's big enough.  Why should
you spend your money on 'im?  He never pays a farthing."

Bob explained that he couldn't say anything because 'e owed his life to
George, but 'e might as well 'ave talked to a lamp-post.  Then put them
in their old legs again in almost youthful movement and entered precisely
at the moment on the stairs, when the spouses began to go up the stairs.
Aunt and niece threw a quick glance.

"Good day, dear aunt," cried the Colonel , the old lady hugged and kissed
them with haste. "I bring you as a young lady that you take into
your custody should. I trust you to keep my jewel. My Julie is neither
flirtatious nor jealous, she is an angel of gentleness. - But it is
here hopefully for the child's lap, "he added, is less incisive." Wretch,
"replied the Marquise, him a mocking glance zuwerfend.

It was the first with a certain amiable grace Julien kiss on the mouth.
The young woman stood and seemed thoughtful as more curious than
embarrassed. "We are therefore closer to each other to know, my
dear heart?"

Said the Marquise. "You did not take too much fear of me.

In dealing with young people give me any trouble, not to be old. "Before
they came into the saloon, had been the Marquis after the usual
custom of the province of a breakfast for their guests ordered, but
the Count bade talkativeness of his aunt stop by her in a serious
tone that he could be her only devote so much time, how to change
the horses would be needed.

The three relatives were soon in the salon, and the count had to
hurry to his aunt by the political and military events to teach,
he urged, for his wife to seek her protection.

Meanwhile, the aunt looked between their ongoing narrative her nephew and
niece back and forth. From the undesirable separation she said is that
the latter is so pale and sad look. It made it a face as if she wanted
to say: 'Look, look!

The young people seem very nice to have.

"At this moment we heard on the old, quiet courtyard, between the grass
patches has proliferated, the cracking of whips. Viktor again kissed the
marquise and hurried out." Farewell, my love, "he said to his wife, who
followed him to the car, and gave her a kiss."

Oh, Victor, let me ride even further, "she replied in gentle tone. "I've
never left." "What do you want?" "Well, if you want to have it so, so
leb 'wohl," returned Julie.

The car disappeared. "You have my poor Victor is very dear?" Asked
the Marquise and her niece saw it with one of those inquiring glances,
as she likes old women to young judge.

"Ah, Madame," replied Julie, "we must make a man love when you married him."
This phrase was a tone of naivety that gives equal time to a very
chaste heart full of deep secrets could.

A woman who Duclos a girlfriend and a Marshal Richelieu was, had to feel
moved, in the mystery of this young marriage follicle. Aunt and niece
were at that moment on the Torschwelle and saw the coach after moving
them. The eyes of the Countess expressed not from what the Marquise to
understand love. The good lady was a Provençalin and in their feelings
overflowing been something. "You have made a good-for-nothing from my
nephew into yarn draw?" She asked her niece. The countess trembled
involuntarily, as in look and tone of the old coquette seemed a deeper
knowledge of Victor's character to betray, as they perhaps even
possessed.

In their agitation, adopted Ms. D'Aiglemont refuge at that kind of adjustment,
which, as it is clumsy, but the only way forward is naïve heart, if
they are suffering.

"Yes, knock 'im down," ses the big man, taking hold o' George's cap and
rumpling his 'air.

Pore George, who was never much good with his fists, hit 'im in the
chest, and the next moment he was on 'is back in the middle o' the road
wondering wot had 'appened to 'im.  By the time 'e got up the other man
was arf a mile away; and young Ted stepped up and wiped 'im down with a
pocket-'andkerchief while Gerty explained to 'im 'ow she saw 'im slip on
a piece o' banana peel.

"It's 'ard lines," she ses; "but never mind, you frightened 'im away,
and I don't wonder at it.  You do look terrible when you're angry,
George; I didn't know you."

She praised 'im all the way 'ome, and if it 'adn't been for his mouth and
nose George would 'ave enjoyed it more than 'e did.  She told 'er mother
how 'e had flown at a big man wot 'ad insulted her, and Mrs. Mitchell
shook her 'ead at 'im and said his bold spirit would lead 'im into
trouble afore he 'ad done.

They didn't seem to be able to make enough of 'im, and next day when he
went round Gerty was so upset at the sight of 'is bruises that he thought
she was going to cry.  When he had 'ad his tea she gave 'im a cigar she
had bought for 'im herself, and when he 'ad finished smoking it she
smiled at him, and said that she was going to take 'im out for a pleasant
evening to try and make up to 'im for wot he 'ad suffered for 'er.

"We're all going to stand treat to each other," she ses.  "Bob always
would insist on paying for everything, but I like to feel a bit
independent.  Give and take--that's the way I like to do things."

"There's nothing like being independent," ses George.  "Bob ought to ha'
known that."

"I'm sure it's the best plan," ses Gerty.  "Now, get your 'at on.  We're
going to a theayter, and Ted shall pay the 'bus fares."

George wanted to ask about the theayter, but 'e didn't like to, and arter
Gerty was dressed they went out and Ted paid the 'bus fares like a man.

"Here you are," ses Gerty, as the 'bus stopped outside the theayter.
"Hurry up and get the tickets, George; ask for three upper circles."

She bustled George up to the pay place, and as soon as she 'ad picked out
the seats she grabbed 'old of the tickets and told George to make haste.

"Twelve shillings it is," ses the man, as George put down arf a crown.

"Twelve?" ses George, beginning to stammer.  "Twelve?  Twelve?  Twel--?"

"Twelve shillings," ses the man; "three upper circles you've 'ad."

George was going to fetch Gerty back and 'ave cheaper seats, but she 'ad
gone inside with young Ted, and at last, arter making an awful fuss, he
paid the rest o' the money and rushed in arter her, arf crazy at the idea
o' spending so much money.

In this elegant, beautiful women crowded salons triumphed Julie now on
Komtesse.

Spirit Realm, vivid, deliberately, she had the most outstanding men of the
evening to get together. The major annoyances of the women was their
very untadelhaft toilet, and they all envied by a rock cut, a waist
shape, the effect is generally to the genius of an unknown seamstress
excessive, because the women always prefer to believe the art and science
as a seamstress to the grace and perfection of those who are so
constructed that it is the work of this now well seamstress can bear.

As Julie stood up to the romance of the piano to sing Desdemona, the
men ran from all the salons came to this famous voice to hear for so
long not erklungen, and one was a deep silence. The Marquise felt
uneasy violently when she heads to the door and insist that all eyes
looked to be stapled.

They looked through the eyes of her husband, threw him a flirtatious glance
and saw with pleasure that he is at this moment in his own love felt
very flattered. Happy about this victory, she delighted in the first part
of the "Al piu Salice + +" the whole assembly.

Never before had the Malibran or pasta can hear a song of such completion
of the feeling and emphasis. But when they wanted to proceed, she saw among
the groups around and saw Arthur, whose views they do not unrelated left.

"You are
good to me, George.  I could go on eating 'em all night, but you mustn't
fling your money away like this always."

"I'll see to that," ses George, very bitter.

"I thought we was going to stand treat to each other?  That was the idea,
I understood."

"So we are," ses Gerty.  "Ted stood the 'bus fares, didn't he?"

"He did," ses George, "wot there was of 'em; but wot about you?"

"Me?" ses Gerty, drawing her 'ead back and staring at 'im.  "Why, 'ave
you forgot that cigar already, George?"

George opened 'is mouth, but 'e couldn't speak a word.  He sat looking at
'er and making a gasping noise in 'is throat, and fortunately just as 'e
got 'is voice back the curtain went up agin, and everybody said,
"_H'sh!_"

He couldn't enjoy the play at all, 'e was so upset, and he began to see
more than ever 'ow wrong he 'ad been in taking Bob's gal away from 'im.
He walked downstairs into the street like a man in a dream, with Gerty
sticking to 'is arm and young Ted treading on 'is heels behind.

"Now, you mustn't waste any more money, George," ses Gerty, when they got
outside.  "We'll walk 'ome."

George 'ad got arf a mind to say something about a 'bus, but he
remembered in time that very likely young Ted hadn't got any more money.
Then Gerty said she knew a short cut, and she took them, walking along
little, dark, narrow streets and places, until at last, just as George
thought they must be pretty near 'ome, she began to dab her eyes with 'er
pocket-'andkerchief and say she'd lost 'er way.

"You two go 'ome and leave me," she ses, arf crying.  "I can't walk
another step."

"Where are we?" ses George, looking round.

"I don't know," ses Gerty.  "I couldn't tell you if you paid me.  I must
'ave taken a wrong turning.  Oh, hurrah!  Here's a cab!"

Afore George could stop 'er she held up 'er umbrella, and a 'ansom cab,
with bells on its horse, crossed the road and pulled up in front of 'em.
Ted nipped in first and Gerty followed 'im.

"Tell 'im the address, dear, and make 'aste and get in," ses Gerty.

George told the cabman, and then he got in and sat on Ted's knee, partly
on Gerty's umbrella, and mostly on nothing.

"You are good to me, George," ses Gerty, touching the back of 'is neck
with the brim of her hat.  "It ain't often I get a ride in a cab.  All
the time I was keeping company with Bob we never 'ad one once.  I only
wish I'd got the money to pay for it."

George, who was going to ask a question, stopped 'imself, and then he
kept striking matches and trying to read all about cab fares on a bill in
front of 'im.

"'Ow are we to know 'ow many miles it is?" he ses, at last.

"I don't know," ses Gerty; "leave it to the cabman.  It's his bisness,
ain't it?  And if 'e don't know he must suffer for it."

There was hardly a soul in Gerty's road when they got there, but afore
George 'ad settled with the cabman there was a policeman moving the crowd
on and arf the winders in the road up.  By the time George had paid 'im
and the cabman 'ad told him wot 'e looked like, Gerty and Ted 'ad
disappeared indoors, all the lights was out, and, in a state o' mind that
won't bear thinking of, George walked 'ome to his lodging.

[Illustration: "Afore George had settled with the cabman, there was a
policeman moving the crowd on."]

Bob was asleep when he got there, but 'e woke 'im up and told 'im about
it, and then arter a time he said that he thought Bob ought to pay arf
because he 'ad saved 'is life.

"Cert'nly not," ses Bob.  "We're quits now; that was the arrangement.
I only wish it was me spending the money on her; I shouldn't grumble."

George didn't get a wink o' sleep all night for thinking of the money he
'ad spent, and next day when he went round he 'ad almost made up 'is mind
to tell Bob that if 'e liked to pay up the money he could 'ave Gerty
back; but she looked so pretty, and praised 'im up so much for 'is
generosity, that he began to think better of it.  One thing 'e was
determined on, and that was never to spend money like that agin for fifty
Gertys.

There was a very sensible man there that evening that George liked very
much.  His presence away the Phantom of the metaphysical Vernünftelei.
Such transformations are the kind that accompanies a young man and a
young woman of thirty years, even a rapid, stormy love must go
through, but there always comes a moment when the clouds disappear,
where the reasons for a single, final thought shrivel , which is
mixed with a desire and gives it vigor.

The longer the resistance has been so powerful is the voice of love. So
here ends this perspective or much more - if it is allowed, the painting
one of their picturesque expression to borrow - the "most exposed
muscle«-made study.

(That story places more the dangers and the mechanism of love differ
in that they represent.)

But from this moment on, each day brought new colors this skeleton, dressed
it with the grace of youth, it was the meat and the movements life and
infuses him to shine, the beauty of feeling and the charms of life.

Karl was Mrs d'Aiglemont thoughtful, and asked in trembling tone, the
sweet magic of the heart lent special urgency: "What do you want?" - But
they are herded to answer.

This delicious question betrayed a perfect conformity of souls, and in
the wonderful instinct of woman, the Marquise notion that they are
in some sense a concession would show if they are now complaints
or anstimmte expression gave her misfortune.

And if each one of these words all the two had understood meaning,
because it was not already with one foot in the abyss?

She read with a sharp, clear view inside and silent Vandenesse followed
their example and also remained silent. "I'm suffering," she said finally,
full horror on the high importance of a moment where the language
of the eyes completely superseded the speech, to which both were
not capable.

"madam," replied Karl lovable in Tone, but you still listened to his violent
agitation, "soul and body, everything hangs together. If you were lucky,
they would be young and fresh.

Why do you refuse to love everything from the return, which has robbed
you love? They believe that life is the moment to end, where it
is, for you, only starts.

Do you trust the care of a friend. It is so sweet, loved to be. "" I am
already old, "she said," nothing would excuse me, I wanted to cease to
suffer, as usual. BTW, love must be, you say?

Well well, which I may not and I can not. Except you, the friendship a
little joy into my life brings me like no man, no man would be able to
erase my memories.

They left young Ted and Charlie to stay near the station when they got to
the Palace, Uncle Joe 'aving forgotten to say where he'd meet 'em, but
train arter train came in without 'im, and at last the two boys gave it
up.

"We're sure to run across 'im sooner or later," ses Gerty.  "Let's 'ave
something to eat; I'm so hungry."

George said something about buns and milk, but Gerty took 'im up sharp.
"Buns and milk?" she ses.  "Why, uncle would never forgive us if we
spoilt his treat like that."

She walked into a refreshment place and they 'ad cold meat and bread and
pickles and beer and tarts and cheese, till even young Ted said he'd 'ad
enough, but still they couldn't see any signs of Uncle Joe.  They went on
to the roundabouts to look for 'im, and then into all sorts o' shows at
sixpence a head, but still there was no signs of 'im, and George had 'ad
to start on a fresh bit o' paper to put down wot he'd spent.

"I suppose he must ha' been detained on important business," ses Gerty,
at last.

"Unless it's one of 'is jokes," ses Mrs. Mitchell, shaking her 'ead.
"You know wot your uncle is, Gerty."

"There now, I never thought o' that," ses Gerty, with a start; "p'r'aps
it is."

"Joke?"  ses George, choking and staring from one to the other.

"I was wondering where he'd get the money from," ses Mrs. The study
asked him about his involuntary exile hinweggetröstet, and at the same
time, he has thoroughly healed up. It is said that he had two years of
almost non-spoken, very gently breathed and slept in a stall.
ses George, 'ardly able to speak; "do you mean to tell me he
never meant to come?"

"I'm afraid not," ses Mrs. Mitchell, "knowing wot he is.  But don't you
worry; I'll give him a bit o' my mind when I see 'im."

George Crofts felt as though he'd burst, and then 'e got his breath, and
the things 'e said about Uncle Joe was so awful that Mrs. Mitchell told
the boys to go away.

"How dare you talk of my uncle like that?" ses Gerty, firing up.

"You forget yourself, George," ses Mrs. Mitchell.  "You'll like 'im when
you get to know 'im better."

"Don't you call me George," ses George Crofts, turning on 'er.  "I've
been done, that's wot I've been.  I 'ad fourteen pounds when I was paid
off, and it's melting like butter."

"Well, we've enjoyed ourselves," ses Gerty, "and that's what money was
given us for.  People who are the same we love we do not. Between two who
love should be offset differences, gaps be filled.

This appeal of the 1789 Love is gone. Our satiety, stringless our morals
are the result of the political system. In Italy at least, that's all
different.

There are the women nor malicious animals, dangerous sirens without
reason, their lusts, their lusts are their only logic.
"They won't put up with no nonsense, I can tell you," ses Mrs. Mitchell.

She called the boys to her, and then she and Gerty, arter holding their
'eads very high and staring at George, went off and left 'im alone.  When
I looked at it carefully, however, I noticed the white collar of her shirt
a very insignificant difference, but later made me an entire novel in the
past and an entire drama in the future could be overlooked.
Bob was so dazed he couldn't make head or tail out of it, but 'e went
round to see Gerty the first thing next morning, and she explained things
to him.

"I don't know when I've enjoyed myself so much," she ses, wiping her
eyes, "but I've had enough gadding about for once, and if you come round
this evening we'll have a nice quiet time together looking at the
furniture shops."