Preston and I had arranged that we would walk up and let the
ladies ride. But as soon as they had taken their places I
heard myself called. We declared our purpose, Preston and I;
but Miss Pinshon said the ground was damp and she preferred I
should ride; and ordered me in. I obeyed, bitterly
disappointed; so much disappointed that I had the utmost
trouble not to let it be seen. For a little while I did not
know what we were passing. Then curiosity recovered itself.
The carriage was slowly making its way up a rough road. On
each side the wooded banks of the dell shut us in; and these
banks seemed to slope upward as well as the road, for though
we mounted and mounted, the sides of the dell grew no lower.
After a little, then, the hollow of the dell began to grow
wider, and its sides softly shelving down; and through the
trees on our left we could see a house, standing high above
us, but on ground which sloped towards the dell, which rose
and widened and spread out to meet it. This sloping ground was
studded with magnificent live oaks; each holding its place in
independent majesty, making no interference with the growth of
the rest. Some of these trees had a girth that half a dozen
men with their arms outstretched in a circle could not span;
they were green in spite of the winter; branching low, and
spreading into stately, beautiful heads of verdure, while grey
wreaths of moss hung drooping from some of them. The house was
seen not very distinctly among these trees; it showed low, and
in a long extent of building. I have never seen a prettier
approach to a house than that at Magnolia. My heart was full
of the beauty, this first time.

"This is Magnolia, Daisy," said my aunt. "This is your house."

"It appears a fine place," said Miss Pinshon.

"It is one of the finest on the river. This is your property,
Daisy."

"It is papa's," I answered.

"Well, — it belongs to your mother, and so you may say it
belongs to your father; but it is yours for all that. From
the Pantry Shelf
Keeping the pantry shelf supplied with foods that are easily
prepared and served is one of the things which mark the
careful housewife. The Veribest list of prepared foods embraces
soups, meats, baked beans and many varieties of potted ham, veal,
chicken, etc., all of which are perfect.

Their use means a saving of time, fuel and energy--with satisfaction
for the whole family.

CHICKEN MOUSSÉ

One cup of chicken stock (made from Armour's Chicken Bouillon Cubes),
one half teaspoon of salt, a pinch of celery salt, one cup of
Armour's Veribest Boned Chicken, two teaspoons of granulated gelatine,
two tablespoons of cold water, one cup of beaten cream, one tablespoon
of chopped olives, and whites of two eggs.

This was at a corner of the building, which
stretched in a long, low line towards the river. A verandah
skirted all that long front. As soon as I was out of the
carriage I ran to the furthest end. I found the verandah
turned the corner; the lawn too. All along the front, it
sloped to the dell; at the end of the house, it sloped more
gently and to greater distance down to the banks of the river.
I could not see the river itself. The view of the dell at my
left hand was lovely. A little stream which ran in the bottom
had been coaxed to form a clear pool in an open spot, where
the sunlight fell upon it, surrounded by a soft wilderness of
trees and climbers. Sweet branches of jessamine waved there in
their season; and a beautiful magnolia had been planted or
cherished there, and carefully kept in view of the house
windows. But the wide lawns, on one side and on the other,
grew nothing but the oaks; the gentle slope was a playground
for sunshine and shadow, as I first saw it; for then the
shadows of the oaks were lengthening over the grass, and the
waving grey wreaths of moss served sometimes as a foil,
sometimes as an her, to the sunbeams. I stood in a trance of
joy and sorrow; they were fighting so hard for the mastery;
till I knew that my aunt and Miss Pinshon had come up behind
me.

"This is a proud place!" my governess remarked.

I believe I looked at her. My aunt laughed; said she must not
teach me that; and led the way back to the entrance of the
house. All along the verandah I noticed that the green blinded
long windows made other entrances for whoever chose them.

The door was open for us already, and within was a row of dark
faces of men and women, and a show of white teeth that looked
like a welcome. I wondered aunt Gary did not say more to
answer the welcome; she only dropped a few careless words as
she went in, and asked if dinner was ready. I looked from one
to another of the strange faces and gleaming rows of teeth.
Arrange those utensils and raw materials in constant use close
at hand, placing utensils used in same kind of work together.
In storeroom and pantry arrange shelves in certain order, with
things seldom used on highest shelves and those used oftener
on lower shelves.I did not hear my aunt's answer; but I
stopped and turned to the woman and laid my little hand in her
withered palm. I don't know what there was in that minute;
only I know that whereas I touched one hand, I touched a great
many hearts. Then and there began my good understanding with
all the coloured people on my mother's estate of Magnolia.
There was a general outburst of satisfaction and welcome. He
observed this for about half an hour, when it began to look
as if several gas-lights were in the room and some one was
turning the gas on and off very rapidly.

After this he went to bed, and was disturbed shortly before midnight
by hearing that the Tower was in flames.The room indeed was a room I had
never seen before; yet according to the mystery of such
things, the inanimate surroundings bore the mark of the tastes
and habits I had grown up among all my life. A great splendid
fire was blazing in the chimney; a rich carpet was on the
floor; the furniture was luxurious though not showy, and there
was plenty of it. So there was a plenty of works of art, in
home and foreign manufacture. Comfort, elegance, prettiness,
all around; and through the clear, glass of the long windows
the evergreen oaks on the lawn showed like guardians of the
place. I stood at one of them, with the pressure of that joy
and sorrow filling my childish heart.

My aunt presently called me from the window, and bade me let
Margaret take off my things. I got leave to go up stairs with
Margaret and take them off there. So I ran up the low easy
flight of stairs — they were wooden and uncarpeted — to a
matted gallery lit from the roof, with here and there a window
in a recess looking upon the lawn. Many rooms opened into this
gallery. I went from one to another. Here were great wood
fires burning too; here were snowy white beds, with light
muslin hangings; and dark cabinets and wardrobes; and mats on
the floors, with thick carpets and rugs laid down here and
there. And on one side and on the other side the windows
looked out upon the wide lawn, with its giant oaks hung with
grey wreaths of moss. My heart grew sore straitened. It was a
hard evening, that first evening at Magnolia; with the
loveliness and the brightness, the warm attraction, and the
bitter cold sense of loneliness. I longed to throw myself down
and cry. SERGEANT FIPS, of the Scotch Fusileer (Qy. _Few
sillier_) Guards, was at a public-house on Tower-hill, when,
happening to go to the door, he observed a large quantity of thick
smoke issuing from one of the windows of the Tower.

But
then came somebody whom I was obliged to hear, shouting
"Daisy" along the gallery. I faced him with a great effort. He
wanted to know what I was doing, and how I liked it, and where
my room was.

