Produced by Brendan Lane, Garrett Alley and PG Distributed Proofreaders


The Worshipper of the Image


By
RICHARD LE GALLIENNE


JOHN LANE: THE BODLEY HEAD
LONDON AND NEW YORK
1900

THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, CAMBRIDGE, U.S.A.

TO SILENCIEUX

THIS TRAGIC FAIRY-TALE


Contents


CHAPTER

I. SMILING SILENCE

II. THE COMING OF SILENCIEUX

III. THE NORTHERN SPHINX

IV. AT THE RISING OF THE MOON

V. SILENCIEUX SPEAKS

VI. THE THREE BLACK PONDS

VII. THE LOVERS OF SILENCIEUX

VIII. A STRANGE KISS FOR SILENCIEUX

IX. THE WONDERFUL WEEK

X. SILENCIEUX WHISPERS

XI. WONDER IN THE WOOD

XII. AUTUMN IN THE VALLEY

XIII. THE HUMAN SACRIFICE

XIV. A SONG OF THE LITTLE DEAD

XV. SILENCIEUX ALONE IN THE WOOD

XVI. THE FIRST TALK ON THE HILLS

XVII. ANTONY ALONE ON THE HILLS

XVIII. THE SECOND TALK ON THE HILLS

XIX. LAST TALK ON THE HILLS

XX. ANTONY'S JUDGMENT UPON SILENCIEUX

XXI. "RESURGAM!"

XXII. THE STRANGENESS OF ANTONY

XXIII. BEATRICE FULFILS HER DESTINY


The Worshipper of the Image


CHAPTER I


SMILING SILENCE

Evening was in the wood, still as the dreaming bracken, secretive,
moving softly among the pines as a young witch gathering simples. She
wore a hood of finely woven shadows, yet, though she drew it close,
sunbeams trooping westward flashed strange lights across her haunted
face.

Pupils who begin by "learning their letters" will be found spelling out
a word (naming over the letters) in order to arrive at the pronunciation.
Attention must be focused on the _sounds only_, at first.
When the consonant sounds are mastered by every member of the class, and
they have gained some proficiency in pronouncing words by blending
these with the short and long vowel sounds, the _names_ of the
letters may be taught, and the alphabet committed to memory in
order.

While as a rule, most children learn the majority of the letters
incidentally by the end of the first year, it often happens that some
remain ignorant of the alphabetical order until they come to use
the dictionary, and are greatly handicapped.

_To Associate the Name of the Letter With Its Sound._

(1) The teacher names the letter as she points to it and the children
give the corresponding sound; (2) As the teacher sounds the letter,
pupils name the letter sounded. (3) Repeat with the letters erased
from the board.

Oral spelling may begin _after_ the sounds have first been mastered--and
as soon as the names of the letters are taught. Spell only the phonetic
words at first. The lists of families of words which have been written
from dictation may now be spelled orally.

The spelling recitation may be both oral and written, but written
spelling should predominate the first year. Unphonetic words should be
taught by visualizing--getting the form of the word as a whole.
Then he said to
himself, with a smile in which was the delight of a success: "A
vase-shaped beetle with deer's horns."

The phrase delighted him. He set the insect down on the path, tenderly.
He had done with it. He had carved it in seven words. The little model
might now touch its delicate way among the ferns at peace.

"A vase-shaped beetle with deer's horns," he repeated as he walked on,
and then the gathering gloom of the wood suggested an addition: "And
some day I shall find in the wood that moth of which I have dreamed
since childhood--the dark moth with the face of death between his
wings."

The châlet stood on a little clearing, in a little circle of pines. From
it the ground sloped down towards the valley, and at some distance
beneath smoke curled from a house lost amid clouds of foliage, the
abounding green life of this damp and brooding hollow. A great window
looking down the woodside filled one side of the châlet, and the others
were dark with books, an occasional picture or figured jar lighting up
the shadow. A small fire flickered beneath a quaintly devised mantel,
though it was summer--for the mists crept up the hill at night and
chilled the souls of the books. A great old bureau, with a wonderful
belly of mahogany, filled a corner of the room, breathing antique
mystery and refinement. At one end of it, on a small vacant space of
wall, hung a cast, apparently the death-mask of a woman, by which the
eye was immediately attracted with something of a shock and held by a
curious fascination. The face was smiling, a smile of great peace, and
also of a strange cunning. One other characteristic it had: the woman
looked as though at any moment she would suddenly open her eyes, and if
you turned away from her and looked again, she seemed to be smiling to
herself because she had opened them that moment behind your back, and
just closed them again in time.

It was a face that never changed and yet was always changing.

She looked doubly strange in the evening light, and her smile softened
and deepened as the shadows gathered in the room.

Antony came and stood in front of her.

"Silencieux," he whispered, "I love you, Silencieux. Smiling Silence, I
love you. All day long on the moors your smile has stolen like a
moonbeam by my side--"

As he spoke, from far down the wood came the gentle sound of a woman's
voice calling "Antony," and coming nearer as it called.

With a shade of impatience, Antony bent nearer to the image and kissed
it.

"Good-bye, Silencieux," he whispered, "Good-bye, until the rising of the
moon."

Then he passed out on to the little staircase that led down into the
wood, and called back to the approaching voice: "I am coming,
Beatrice,"--'Beatrice' being the name of his wife.

As he called, a shaft of late sunlight suddenly irradiated the tall
slim form of a woman coming up the wood. She wore no hat, and the sun
made a misty glory of her pale gold hair. She seemed a fairy romantic
thing thus gliding in her yellow silk gown through the darkening pines.
And her face was the face of the image, feature for feature. There was
on it too the same light, the same smile.

"Antony," she called, as they drew nearer to each other, "where in the
wide world have you been? Dinner has been waiting for half-an-hour."

"Dinner!" he said, laughing, and kissing her kindly. "Fancy! the High
Muses have made me half-an-hour late for dinner. Beauty has made me
forget my dinner. Disgraceful!"

"I don't mind your forgetting dinner, Antony--but you might have
remembered me."

"Do you think I could remember Beauty and forget you? Yes! you _are_
beautiful to-night, Silen--Beatrice. You look like a lady one meets
walking by a haunted well in some old Arthurian tale."

"Hush!" said Beatrice, "listen to the night-jar. He is worth a hundred
nightingales."

"Yes; what a passion is that!" said Antony, "so sincere, and yet so
fascinating too."

"'Yet,' do you say, Antony? If different colored pencils are used, the
same pages can be used a number of times.

When the "m" sound is being taught let all words beginning with that sound
be marked with black; at another seat work period, words beginning with
"b" are marked with "green;" and again, words beginning with "f"
sound are marked with blue pencils, etc.

Underline digraphs, blended consonants, and phonograms.

2.

The teacher writes a phonogram on the board and below it all the consonant
sounds from which words may be built. Pupils write the entire words.

3.

Phonograms are written on the board; pupils supply consonants and
write out the words.

4.

Have a number of phonograms and three or four sets of consonants in
envelopes. Give an envelope to each child and let him build the
words on his desk. Duplicate copies can be made on a hectograph, one
set for each lesson; then if one envelope from each set is preserved,
those miscellaneous lessons can be used in review for a long time,
each child using a different set each time.

5.

Write on the board lists of words ending in various phonograms and let
the children re-write them, arranging in columns according to phonograms.

6. Write families from memory.

GENERAL SUGGESTIONS
1. At least two daily periods should be given to phonics. The first lessons
will be short, but after some advance has been made, ten to fifteen
minutes should be given.

2.

As far as possible let the words for phonic drill be those that will occur
in the new reading lessons.

3. Constantly review all familiar sounds, phonograms, digraphs, blends,
etc., when met in new words, and so teach pupils to apply their
knowledge of phonics.

4.

Teaching them to "pantomime" the sounds--representing them mutely
by movement of the lips, tongue and palate, will aid them in silent
study at their seats.

5.

By the end of the first year the pupil's phonetic knowledge, combined
with his vocabulary of sight words and his power to discover a new word,
either phonetically or by the context, ought to enable him to read
independently any primer, and to read during the year from eight to
twelve or more primers and first readers.

6.

In reading, pupils should be taught to get the meaning chiefly by
context--by the parts which precede or follow the difficult word
and are so associated with it as to throw light upon its meaning.

7.

When a word cannot be pronounced phonetically, the teacher should assist
by giving the sound needed, but the pupil will soon discover that by
using his wits in phonics as in other things, he can get the new word
for himself by the sense of what he is reading, e.g., in the sentence,
"The farmer came into the field" he meets the new word "field." Naturally
a second year pupil, who has learned the reasons for sounding will
apply the long sound of "i;"--as he reads it does not make sense, so
he tries short "i." Still the sentence is meaningless, so he tries
again with "e" and reads a sentence which satisfies him, because
the meaning is clear.

If the first year pupil pronounces the word "coat" as co-at (recognizing
the last combination as a member of the "at" family) the teacher will
underline and call his attention to the digraph "oa" which he has
already learned to pronounce as long "o." Most pupils however, meeting
the word in a sentence--as, "The caterpillar's coat is
green"--would, if reading thotfully recognize the word by the
context.

8.

Drill on obscure sounds should be omitted the first year.

Unphonetic words should be taught as sight words: as: one, many, been,
said, they, ought, eight.

9.

Begin to combine words and syllables into longer words as soon as possible:
door-step, in-deed, hand-some, be-fore, ham-mer-ing, in-no-cent,
for-get-ful, car-pen-ter, side-walk, mis-take.

10.

Give time increasingly to analytic-synthetic word study, e.g.--"eight"
and "rain" are taught as sight words.

eigh t r ain Analysis: eigh ain w eigh p ain w eight pl ain Synthesis:
n eigh com plain n eigh bor com plain ing 

ARTICULATION
Exercises to correct faulty articulation and secure flexibility
should be given frequently.

Poor girl--" and she turned again to the
image as it lay upon the table,--"see how the hair lies moulded round
her ears with the water, and how her eyelashes stick to her cheek--Poor
girl."

"But see how happy she looks. Why should we pity one who can smile like
that? See how peaceful she looks;" and with a sudden whim, Antony took
the image and set it lying back on a soft cushion in a corner of the
couch, at the same time throwing round its neck his black cloak, which
he had cast off as he came in.

The image nestled into the cushion as though it had veritably been a
living woman weary for sleep, and softly smiling that it was near at
last. So comfortable she seemed, you could have sworn she breathed.

Antony lifted her head once or twice with his fingers, to delight
himself with seeing her sink back luxuriously once more.

Beatrice grew more and more white.

"Antony, please stop. I cannot bear it. She looks so terribly alive."

At that moment Antony's touch had been a little too forcible, the image
hung poised for a moment and then began to fall in the direction of
Beatrice.

"Oh, she is falling," she almost screamed, as Antony saved the cast from
the floor. "For God's sake, stop!"

"How childish of you, Beatrice. She is only plaster. I never knew you
such a baby."

"I cannot help it, Antony. I know it is foolish, but I cannot help it. I
think living in this place has made me morbid. She seems so alive--so
evil, so cruel. I am sorry you bought her, Antony. I cannot bear to look
at her. Won't you take her away? Take her up into the wood. Keep her
there. Take her now. I shall not be able to sleep all night if I know
she is in the house."

She was half hysterical, and Antony soothed her gently.

"Yes, yes, dear. I'm sorry. I'll take her up the wood now this minute.
Wait till I light the lantern. Poor Beatrice, I never dreamed she would
affect you so. I loved her, dear--because I love you; but I would rather
break her in pieces than that she should make you unhappy. Though to
break any image of you, dear," he added tenderly, "would seem a kind of
sacrilege. You know how I love you, Beatrice, don't you?"

"Of course I do, dear; and it was sweet of you to buy her for my sake,
and I'm quite silly to-night. To-morrow I shall think nothing about her.
Still, dear, she does frighten me, I can't tell why. There seems
something malignant about her, something that threatens our happiness.
Oh, how silly I am--"

Meanwhile, Antony had lit an old brass lantern, and presently he was
flashing his way up among the dark sounds of the black old wood, with
that ghostly face tenderly pressed against his side.

He stopped once to turn his lantern upon her. How mysterious she looked,
here in the night, under the dark pines!

He too felt a little haunted as he climbed his châlet staircase and
unlocked the door, every sound he made echoing fatefully in the silent
wood; and when he had found a place for the image and hung her there,
she certainly looked a ghostly companion for the midnight lamp, in the
middle of a wood.

How strangely she smiled, the smile almost of one taking possession.

No wonder Beatrice had been frightened. Was there some mysterious life
in the thing, after all? Why should these indefinite forebodings come
over him as he looked at her!--But he was growing as childish as
Beatrice. Surely midnight, a dark wood, a lantern, and a death-mask,
with two owls whistling to each other across the valley, were enough to
account for any number of forebodings! But Antony shivered, for all
that, as he locked the door and hastened back again down the wood.


CHAPTER III


THE NORTHERN SPHINX

Antony had not written a poem to his wife since their little girl Wonder
had been born, now some four years ago. Surely it was from no lack of
love, this silence, but merely due to the working of what would seem to
be a law of the artistic temperament: that to turn a muse into a wife,
however long and faithfully loved, is to bid good-bye to the muse. But a
day or two after the coming of Silencieux, Antony found himself suddenly
inspired once more to sing of his wife. It was the best poem he had
written for a long time, and when it was finished, he came down the wood
impatient to read it to Beatrice. This was the poem, which he called
"The Northern Sphinx":--

  Sphinx of the North, with subtler smile
    Than hers who in the yellow South,
    With make-believe mysterious mouth,
  Deepens the _ennui_ of the Nile;

  And, with no secret left to tell,
    A worn and withered old coquette,
    Dreams sadly that she draws us yet,
  With antiquated charm and spell:

  Tell me your secret, Sphinx,--for mine!--
    What means the colour of your eyes,
    Half innocent and all so wise,
  Blue as the smoke whose wavering line

  Curls upward from the sacred pyre
    Of sacrifice or holy death,
    Pale twisting wreaths of opal breath,
  From fire mounting into fire.

  What is the meaning of your hair?
    That little fairy palace wrought
    With many a grave fantastic thought;
  I send a kiss to wander there,

  To climb from golden stair to stair,
    Wind in and out its cunning bowers,--
    O garden gold with golden flowers,
  O little palace built of hair!

  The meaning of your mouth, who knows?
    O mouth, where many meanings meet--
    Death kissed it stern, Love kissed it sweet,
  And each has shaped its mystic rose.

  Mouth of all sweets, whose sweetness sips
    Its tribute honey from all hives,
    The sweetest of the sweetest lives,
  Soft flowers and little children's lips;

  Yet rather learnt its heavenly smile
    From sorrow, God's divinest art,
    Sorrow that breaks and breaks the heart,
  Yet makes a music all the while.

  Ah! what is that within your eyes,
    Upon your lips, within your hair,
    The sacred art that makes you fair,
  The wisdom that hath made you wise?

  Tell me your secret, Sphinx,--for mine!--
    The mystic word that from afar
    God spake and made you rose and star,
  The _fiat lux_ that bade you shine.

While Antony read, Beatrice's face grew sadder and sadder. When he had
finished she said:--

"It is very beautiful, Antony--but it is not written for me."

"What can you mean, Beatrice? Who else can it be written for?"

"To the Image of me that you have set up in my place."

"Beatrice, are you going mad?"

"It is quite true, all the same. Time will show. Perhaps you don't know
it yourself as yet, but you will before long."

"But, Beatrice, the poem shows its own origin. Has your image blue eyes,
or curiously coiled hair--"

"Oh, yes, of course, you thought of me. You filled in from me. But the
inspiration, the wish to write it, came from the image--"

"It is certainly true that I love to look at it, as I love to look at a
picture of you--because it is you--"

"As yet, no doubt, but you will soon love it for its own sake. You are
already beginning."

"I love an image! You are too ridiculous, Beatrice."

"Does it really seem so strange, dear? I sometimes think you have never
loved anything else."

Antony had laughed down Beatrice's fancies, yet all the time she had
been talking he was conscious that the idea she had suggested was
appealing to him with a perverse fascination.

To love, not the literal beloved, but the purified stainless image of
her,--surely this would be to ascend into the region of spiritual love,
a love unhampered and untainted by the earth.

As he said this to himself, his mind, ever pitilessly self-conscious,
knew it was but a subterfuge, a fine euphemism for a strange desire
which he had known was already growing within him; for when Beatrice had
spoken of his loving an image, it was no abstract passion he had
conceived, but some fanciful variation of earthly love--a love of
beauty centring itself upon some form midway between life and death,
inanimate and yet alive, human and yet removed from the accidents of
humanity.

To love an image with one's whole heart! If only one could achieve
that--and never come out of the dream.

These thoughts gave him a new desire to look again at the image. He felt
that in some way she would be changed, and he hastened up the wood in a
strange expectancy.


CHAPTER IV


AT THE RISING OF THE MOON

But a week or two more, and Beatrice's prophecy had progressed so far
towards fulfilment, that Antony was going about the woods and the moors
saying over to himself the name he had found for the Image, as we saw in
the first chapter; and his love for Silencieux, begun more or less as a
determined self-illusion, grew more and more of a reality. Every day new
life welled into Silencieux's face, as every day life ebbed from the
face of Beatrice, surely foreseeing the coming on of what she had
feared. For the love he gave to Silencieux Antony must take away from
Beatrice, from whom as the days went by he grew more and more withdrawn.

It was true that the long lonely days which he spent in the wood bore
fruit in a remarkable productiveness. Never had his imagination been so
enkindled, or his pen so winged. But this very industry, the proofs of
which he would each evening bring down the wood for that fine judgment
of Beatrice's, which, in spite of all, still remained more to him than
any other praise--this very industry was the secret confirmation for
Beatrice's sad heart. No longer the inspirer, she was yet, she bitterly
told herself, honoured among women as a critic. Her heart might bleed,
and her eyes fill with tears, as he read; but then, as he would say, the
Beauty, the Music! Is it Beautiful? Is it Music? If it be that, no
matter how it has been made! Let us give thanks for creation, though it
involves the sacrifice of our own most tender and sacred feelings. To
set mere personal feelings against Beauty--human tears against an
immortal creation! Did he spare his own feelings? Indeed he did not.

On the night when we first met him bidding good-bye to Silencieux "until
the rising of the moon," he had sat through dinner eating but little,
feverishly and somewhat cruelly gay. Though he was as yet too kind to
admit it to himself, Beatrice was beginning to bore him, not merely by
her sadness, which his absorption prevented his realising except in
flashes, but by her very resemblance to the Image--of which, from having
been the beloved original, she was, in his eyes, becoming an indifferent
materialisation. The sweet flesh he had loved so tenderly became an
offence to him, as a medium too gross for the embodiment of so beautiful
a face. Such a face as Silencieux's demanded a more celestial porcelain.

Dinner at last finished, he made an excuse to Beatrice for leaving her
alone once more at the end as he had during all the rest of the day,
and hastened to keep his tryst with Silencieux. During dinner the
conscious side of his mind had been luxuriating in the romantic sound of
"until the rising of the moon,"--for he was as yet a long way from being
quite simple even with Silencieux,--and the idea of his going out with
serious eagerness to meet one who, if she was as he knew a living being,
was an image too, delighted his sense of fantastic make-believe.

There is in all love that element of make-believe. Every woman who is
loved is partly the creation of her lover's fancy. He consciously
siderealises her, and with open eyes magnifies her importance to his
life. Antony but made believe and magnified uncommonly--and his dream of
vivifying white plaster was perhaps less desperate than the dreams of
some, that would breathe the breath of life into the colder clay of some
beloved woman, who seems spontaneously to live but is dead all the
while.

Silencieux appeared to be dead, but beneath that eternal smile, as
Beatrice had divined, as Antony was learning, she was only too terribly
alive. Yes! Antony's was the easier dream.

The moon and Antony came up the wood together from opposite ends, and
when Antony entered his châlet Silencieux was already waiting for him,
her head crowned with a moonbeam. He kissed her softly and took her with
him out into the ferns.


CHAPTER V


SILENCIEUX SPEAKS

So long as the moon held, Antony stole up the wood each night to meet
Silencieux--"at the rising of the moon." Sometimes he would lie in a
hollow with her head upon his knee, and gaze for an hour at a time,
entranced, into her face. He would feign to himself that she slept, and
he would hold his breath lest he should awaken her. Sometimes he would
say in a tender whisper, not loud enough for her to hear:--

"It is cold to-night, Silencieux. See, my cloak will keep you warm."

Once as he did this she heaved a gentle sigh, as though thanking him.

At other times he would place her against the gable of the châlet, so
that the moonlight fell upon her, and then he would plunge into the
wood and walk its whole length, so that, as he wound his way back
through the intervening brakes, her face would come and go, glimmering
away off through the leafage, beckoning to him to return. And once he
thought he heard her call his name very softly through the wood.

That may have been an illusion, but it was during these days that he did
actually hear her speak for the first time. He had been writing till
past midnight, with her smile just above him, and when he had turned out
the lamp and was moving to the door through the vague flickering light
of the fire, he distinctly heard a voice very luxurious and tender say
"Antony," just behind him. It was hardly more than a whisper, but its
sweetness thrilled his blood, and half in joy and fear he turned to her
again. But she was only smiling inscrutably as before, and she spoke no
more for that night.


CHAPTER VI


THE THREE BLACK PONDS

At the bottom of the valley, approached by sunken honeysuckle lanes that
seemed winding into the centre of the earth, lay three black ponds,
almost hidden in a _cul-de-sac_ of woodland. Though long since
appropriated by nature, made her own by moss and rooted oaks, they were
so set one below the other, with green causeways between each, that an
ancient art, long since become nature, had evidently designed and dug
them, years, perhaps centuries, ago. So long dead were the old
pond-makers that great trees grew now upon the causeways, and vast
jungles of rush and water grasses choked the trickling overflows from
one pond to the other. Once, it was said, when the earth of those parts
had been rich in iron, these ponds had driven great hammers,--but long
before the memory of the oldest cottager they had rested from their
labours, and lived only the life of beauty and silence. the star which
had stood over the dome of the cathedral was now before him, as at
first, and seemed to waver and tremble, as if beckoning him on.

So, although his feet seemed bound to the spot, and his heart was still
throbbing with the deep feelings the cathedral service had created in
him, remembering the words of Balthazar, "we must follow the star," he
slowly and reluctantly walked on.

[Sidenote: The Just Shall Live by Faith]
In the meantime Melchoir also had followed faithfully the path along
which the star seemed to lead.

Through forests in which he almost lost his way, across rivers difficult
and dangerous to ford--still he followed on. At length Melchoir's star
seemed to tarry over the spire of a gothic church, into which the
people were going in throngs.

Waiting a moment, to be sure that the star was actually standing still,
Melchoir went in with the rest. In this place was no altar, such as Gaspard
saw; no image on the cross; no white-robed priests; no swinging censers.
But, as Melchoir entered he heard strains from the organ, and a chorus
of voices was singing an anthem beginning with the words, "Te Deum
Laudamus." And when the anthem came to a close, a man clothed in a
black robe, such as scholars were wont to wear, rose in his place upon
a platform elevated above the people, and began to speak to them
about the kingdom of Christ.

Melchoir listened in eager expectancy. [Sidenote: The Truth Shall Make
You Free] "The kingdom of the Christ," the preacher said, "is the
kingdom of the truth, and the truth is to be continued and kept
alive by the strength of man's belief.

Those things which have been handed down by holy men and sacred oracles
since Christ was here upon the earth, are the truths by which we
live.

How can Christ live except He live in our beliefs?

Why did the Father of all intrust us with our reasons, unless it were
that we should make them the instruments of our faith and our salvation?
Let us therefore stand in our places, while we recite together the
articles of our holy faith."
These and many such words did the scholar-preacher declare.

And as he sat there with the people, Melchoir felt the weight of the
solemn and earnest words, and he said: "So at last have I come to
the end of my search.

The kingdom of Christ is in the mind of man.

His kingdom is the kingdom of the truth."

[Sidenote: More Light Shall Break Forth]
Then he followed the throngs as they went forth from the church;
but the star which had tarried over the lofty spire was now before
him, and the opal light wavered and trembled, as if beckoning him
on; and the words of the preacher, "we must believe," seemed to
blend with the words of Balthazar, "we must follow the star."

So, reluctantly and slowly he followed on.

[Sidenote: Thy Sacramental Liturgies]
But Balthazar--whither went he, following the star? Over many a
rugged way, through many a tangled thicket, through valleys and
over hills.

His star tarried over no cathedrals; it lingered over no Gothic
spires. It seemed capricious and restless and tireless. At times it seemed
intent on coming to a pause over the head of some human being, but perhaps
it was because these human beings themselves were so restless and
so busy that the star could not accomplish its intent.

For Balthazar saw these men and women hurrying hither and thither
on errands of mercy, or deeds of justice; he saw them ferreting out
great wrongs, laying heavy blows on the backs of men who oppressed
and defrauded their fellow men.

At length Balthazar seemed to understand the movements of the star, and,
drawing nearer, he would seem to hear these men repeating cheering
and encouraging words to one another.

"Pure religion and undefiled," he heard one exclaiming, "is to visit the
fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself
unspotted from the world."

And another echoed, "Inasmuch as we do it to the least of these, we do
it unto Christ."

[Sidenote: The Joy of Doing Good] 
"Ah!

thought Balthazar as he listened, I see the meaning of it now; I am
coming to the end of my search. The kingdom of Christ--I have found
it. It is in the deeds of men; it is in the conscience and the serving
will.

Devotion to right, this is the law of the kingdom of Christ."

Then Balthazar turned to go in search of his comrades again; but behold!
the opal star was trembling, as if beckoning him on.

So, still doubting if he had reached the end of his search, he
followed the star.

[Sidenote: The Paths Converge]
Thus Gaspard, Melchoir and Balthazar, each following the star, at
last approached each other.

The star of each seemed to melt and blend into the star of the others, and
the opal light stood at last in the center of the group. Gaspard
exclaimed: "I have found that which we all were seeking. The kingdom
of Christ is in the imagination; Christ lives in what man feels."
"Nay," said Melchoir, "I have followed the star, and I have found what
we sought. The kingdom of Christ is in the reason of man. Christ lives
in what man believes."
"But," cried Balthazar, "my star has led me to a different end.

The kingdom of Christ is in the will of man.

Christ lives in what man does."
"The truth," once more exclaimed Melchoir, "is the law of the kingdom."

"Not truth," declared Balthazar, "but justice, righteousness,
goodness and purity--these are its laws and its marks."

"Nay, comrades beloved, hearken to me," answered Gaspard, "it is
the miracle of the divine presence.

It is God among men, realized in the holy mass.

I beheld it all in yonder cathedral."
But lo!

once more the star began to tremble and to change its place.

"Let us follow the star!" Balthazar whispered.

"We will follow it," echoed the other two.

[Sidenote: Once More the Quest]
Then the star led them on, and they followed together until they came
at length to the doorway of a little cottage; and within the cottage
they saw a woman bending over a cradle, and in the cradle a little child
lay sleeping. She was a peasant woman; her clothing was not rich; the
furnishing of the cottage was humble and scanty. The cradle itself was
rude, as if put together by hands unskilful in tasks like that. But
when the mother looked at her babe a sweet smile played about her lips,
and a light was in her eyes. Then all suddenly the three men remembered
another scene long before, when they were bearers of gold and
frankincense and myrrh to another babe.

[Sidenote: He That Loveth Knoweth God]
And while they stood and wondered by the door, there came a strong
and sturdy peasant, broad-shouldered, roughly clad, his face browned
in the sun, his hands hardened with toil.

He came and stood beside the woman, and they bent together over the cradle
of the sleeping child, and the man drew the woman tenderly toward him
and kissed her brow.

And still the three men lingered; for behold! the star stood still above
the child, and they dared not speak. But the heart of Gaspard was
saying in silence, "There is something greater than the repeated
miracle of the mass."

And Melchoir was thinking, "There is something mightier even than
the mind; something superior to naked truth."

[Sidenote: For God Is Love]
And Balthazar was confessing to himself that he had found something
more potent even than the righteous deed.

For here they all beheld how life was made sweet and blessed and
holy by the power of love; and by love for a little child, in whom
was all weakness and helplessness, whose only voice was a cry, but
who was all strong and mighty with the power of God, because he
could transform roughness into tenderness, and selfishness into
loving care, and poverty itself into gifts of gold and fragrant
myrrh.

"Truly, my comrades," Balthazar said, "love is the greatest of all."

"And now I understand," said Gaspard, "how the weak things of the world
can confound the mighty."
"And I," added Melchoir, "see what it means for God to come to earth in
the form of a little child."
And so they turned away, and the radiance of the star was round about
them, and they were saying to each other: "Our search at last is
ended."
[*] Reprinted with the permission of "The Sketching Club," Indianapolis,
Ind.

LITTLE GRETCHEN AND THE WOODEN SHOE[*]

By Elizabeth Harrison

Once upon a time, a long time ago, far away across the great ocean,
in a country called Germany, there could be seen a small log hut
on the edge of a great forest, whose fir trees extended for miles
and miles to the north. This little house, made of heavy hewn logs, had
but one room in it.

A rough pine door gave entrance to this room, and a small square
window admitted the light.

At the back of the house was built an old-fashioned stone chimney,
out of which in winter curled a thin, blue smoke, showing that there was
not very much fire within.

Small as the house was, it was large enough for two people who lived in
it. I want to tell you a story today about these two people. One was an
old gray-haired woman, so old that the little children of the
village, nearly half a mile away, often wondered whether she had come
into the world with the huge mountains and the giant fir trees, which
stood like giants back of her small hut. Her face was wrinkled all
over with deep lines, which, if the children could only have read
aright, would have told them of many years of cheerful, happy,
self-sacrifice; of loving, anxious, watching beside sick-beds; of
quiet endurance of pain, of many a day of hunger and cold, and of
a thousand deeds of unselfish love for other people; but, of course,
they could not read this strange handwriting.

They only knew that she was old and wrinkled, and that she stooped
as she walked.

None of them seemed to fear her, for her smile was always cheerful,
and she had a kindly word for each of them if they chanced to meet her
on her way to and from the village. With this old, old woman lived a
very little girl.

So bright and happy was she that the travellers who passed by the
lonesome little house on the edge of the forest often thought of
a sunbeam as they saw her.

These two people were known in the village as Granny Goodyear and
Little Gretchen.

The winter had come and the frost had snapped off many of the smaller
branches of the pine trees in the forest. Gretchen and her granny
were up by daybreak each morning. After their simple breakfast of
oatmeal, Gretchen would run to the little closet and fetch Granny's
old woolen shawl, which seemed almost as old as Granny herself. Gretchen
always claimed the right to put the shawl over Granny's head, even
though she had to climb onto the wooden bench to do it. After carefully
pinning it under Granny's chin, she gave her a good-bye kiss, and
Granny started out for her morning's work in the forest.

This work was nothing more nor less than the gathering up of the
twigs and branches which the autumn winds and winter frosts had
thrown upon the ground.

These were carefully gathered into a large bundle which Granny tied
together with a strong linen band.

She then managed to lift the bundle to her shoulder and trudged off
to the village with it.

Here she sold the fagots for kindling wood to the people of the
village. Sometimes she would get only a few pence each day, and sometimes
a dozen or more, but on this money little Gretchen and she managed
to live; they had their home, and the forest kindly furnished the
wood for the fire which kept them warm in winter.

In the summer time Granny had a little garden at the back of the house,
where she raised, with little Gretchen's help, a few potatoes and
turnips and onions. These she carefully stored away for winter use. To
this meagre supply, the pennies, gained by selling the twigs
from the forest, added the oatmeal for Gretchen and a little black
coffee for Granny. Meat was a thing they never thought of having. It
cost too much money. Still, Granny and Gretchen were very happy,
because they loved each other dearly.

Sometimes Gretchen would be left alone all day long in the hut, because
Granny would have some work to do in the village after selling her
bundle of sticks and twigs. It was during these long days that little
Gretchen had taught herself to sing the song which the wind sang
to the pine branches.

In the summer time she learned the chirp and twitter of the birds, until
her voice might almost be mistaken for a bird's voice, she learned to
dance as the swaying shadows did, and even to talk to the stars
which shone through the little square window when Granny came home
late or too tired to talk.

Sometimes, when the weather was fine, or her Granny had an extra bundle
of knitted stockings to take to the village, she would let little Gretchen
go along with her. It chanced that one of these trips to the town came
just the week before Christmas, and Gretchen's eyes were delighted
by the sight of the lovely Christmas trees which stood in the window
of the village store.

It seemed to her that she would never tire of looking at the knit
dolls, the woolly lambs, the little wooden shops with their queer,
painted men and women in them, and all the other fine things. She had
never owned a plaything in her whole life; therefore, toys which you and
I would not think much of seemed to her very beautiful.

That night, after their supper of baked potatoes was over, and little
Gretchen had cleared away the dishes and swept up the hearth, because
Granny dear was so tired, she brought her own little wooden stool and
placed it very near Granny's feet and sat down upon it, folding her
hands on her lap. Granny knew that this meant that she wanted to be
told about something, so she smilingly laid away the large Bible which
she had been reading, and took up her knitting, which was as much as to
say: "Well, Gretchen, dear, Granny is ready to listen."

"Granny," said Gretchen slowly, "It's almost Christmas time, isn't it?"

"Yes, dearie," said Granny, "only five days more now," and then she
sighed, but little Gretchen was so happy that she did not notice Granny's
sigh.

"What do you think, Granny, I'll get this Christmas?"

said she, looking up eagerly into Granny's face.

"Ah, child, child," said Granny, shaking her head, "you'll have no
Christmas this year. We are too poor for that."
"Oh, but Granny," interrupted little Gretchen, "think of all the beautiful
toys we saw in the village today. Surely Santa Claus has sent enough
for every little child."
"Ah, dearie, those toys are for people who can pay for them, and we have
no money to spend for Christmas toys."
"Well, Granny," said Gretchen, "perhaps some of the little children who
live in the great house on the hill at the other end of the village,
will be willing to share some of their toys with me.

They will be glad to give some to a little girl who has none."

"Dear child, dear child," said Granny, leaning forward and stroking
the soft, shiny hair of the little girl, "your heart is full of
love.

You would be glad to bring a Christmas to every child; but their heads
are so full of what they are going to get that they forget all about
anybody else but themselves." Then she sighed and shook her head.

"Well, Granny," said Gretchen, her bright, happy tone of voice growing a
little less joyous, "perhaps the dear Santa Claus will show some
of the village children how to make presents that do not cost money,
and some of them may surprise me Christmas morning with a present.

And, Granny, dear," added she, springing up from her low stool, "can't
I gather some of the pine branches and take them to the old sick man
who lives in the house by the mill, so that he can have the sweet
smell of our forest in his room all Christmas day?"

"Yes, dearie," said Granny, "you may do what you can to make the Christmas
bright and happy, but you must not expect any present yourself."

"Oh, but, Granny," said little Gretchen, her face brightening, "you
forgot all about the shining Christmas angels, who came down to
earth and sang their wonderful song the night the beautiful
Christ-Child was born!

  They are so loving and good that _they_ will
    not forget any little child. I
      shall ask my dear
    stars tonight to tell them of
    us.
  You know," she added, with a look of relief, "the stars are so very
high that they must know the angels quite well as they come and go
with their messages from the loving God."

  Granny sighed as she half whispered. "Poor child, poor
    child!" but Gretchen threw
      her arm around
    Granny's neck and gave her
    a hearty kiss, saying as she did so:
  "Oh, Granny, Granny, you don't talk to the stars often enough,
else you would not be sad at Christmas time."

  Then she danced all around the room, whirling
    her little skirts about
      her to show
    Granny how the wind had
    made the snow dance that day. She looked
  so droll and funny that Granny forgot her cares and worries and
laughed with little Gretchen over her new snow dance.

The days passed on and the morning before Christmas Eve came.

Gretchen having tidied up the little room--for Granny had taught
her to be a careful little housewife--was off to the forest, singing
a birdlike song, almost as happy and free as the birds themselves.

She was very busy that day preparing a surprise for Granny.

First, however, she gathered the most beautiful of the fir branches
within her reach to take the next morning to the old sick man who
lived by the mill.

The day was all too short for the happy little girl.

When Granny came trudging wearily home that night, she found the
frame of the doorway covered with green pine branches.

"It is to welcome you, Granny!

It is to welcome you!"

cried Gretchen; "our dear old home wanted to give you a Christmas
welcome.

Don't you see, the branches of the evergreen make it look as if it
were smiling all over, and it is trying to say, 'A happy Christmas
to you Granny'."

Granny laughed and kissed the little girl, as they opened the door
and went in together.

Here was a new surprise for Granny.

The four posts of the wooden bed, which stood in one corner of the
room, had been trimmed by the busy little fingers, with smaller and
more flexible branches of the pine trees.

A small bouquet of red mountain ash berries stood at each side of
the fireplace, and these, together with the trimmed posts of the
bed, gave the plain old room quite a festive look.

Gretchen laughed and clapped her hands and danced about until the house
seemed full of music to poor, tired Granny, whose heart had been sad as
she turned toward their home that night, thinking of the
disappointment that must come to loving little Gretchen the next
morning.

After supper was over little Gretchen drew her stool up to Granny's
side, and laying her soft, little hands on Granny's knee asked to
be told once again the story of the coming of the Christ-Child; how
the night that he was born the beautiful angels had sung their
wonderful song, and how the whole sky had become bright with a
strange and glorious light, never seen by the people of earth before.

Gretchen had heard the story many, many times before, but she never grew
tired of it, and now that Christmas Eve had come again, the happy
little child wanted to hear it once more.

When Granny had finished telling it the two sat quiet and silent for a
little while thinking it over; then Granny rose and said that it
was time for her to go to bed.

She slowly took off her heavy wooden shoes, such as are worn in
that country, and placed them beside the hearth.

Gretchen looked thoughtfully at them for a minute or two, and then she
said, "Granny, don't you think that _somebody_ in all this wide
world will think of us tonight?"

"Nay, Gretchen, I do not think any one will."
"Well, then, Granny," said Gretchen, "the Christmas angels will, I
know; so I am going to take one of your wooden shoes and put it on
the windowsill outside, so that they may see it as they pass by.

Her face was alive again, alive too with a softness of womanhood he had
never seen before.

"Forgive me, Antony," she said. "I loved you all the time."

What else need Silencieux say!

"But it was so strange," said Antony after a while, "so strange. I
could have borne the pain, if only I could have understood."

"Shall I tell you the reason, Antony?"

"Yes."

"It was because I saw in your eyes a thought of Beatrice. For a moment
your thoughts had forsaken me and gone to pity Beatrice. I saw it in
your eyes."

"Poor Beatrice!" said Antony. "It is little indeed I give her. Could you
not spare her so little, Silencieux?"

"I can spare her nothing. You must be all mine, Antony--your every
thought and hope and dream. So long as there is another woman in the
world for you except me, I cannot be yours in the depths of my being,
nor you mine. There must always be something withheld. It will never be
perfect, until--"

"Until when?"

"Until, Antony,"--and Silencieux lowered her voice to an awful
whisper,--"until you have made for me the human sacrifice."

"The human sacrifice!"

"Yes, Antony,--all my lovers have done that for me. They were not really
mine till then. Some have brought me many such offerings. Antony, when
will you bring me the human sacrifice?"

"O Silencieux!"

Antony's heart chilled with terror at Silencieux's words. It was against
this that the voices had warned him as he came up the wood. O that he
had never seen Silencieux more, never heard her poisonous voice again!

As one fleeing before the shadow of uncommitted sin that gains upon him
at each stride, Antony fled from the place, and sought the moors. The
moon was near its setting, and soon the dawn would throw open the
eastern doors of the sky. He walked on and on, waiting, praying for,
stifling for the light; and, at last, with a freshening of the air, and
faint sounds of returning consciousness from distant farms, it came.

High over a lake of ethereal silver welling up out of space, hung the
morning star, shining as though its heart would break, bright as a tear
that must slip down the face of heaven and fall amid the grass.

As Antony looked up at it, his soul escaped from its prison of dark
thought, and such an exaltation had come with the quickening light, that
it seemed as though the body, with little more than pure aspiration to
wing it, might follow the soul's flight to that crystal sphere.

In that moment, Antony knew that the love in the soul of man is mated
only with the infinite universe. In no marriage less than that shall it
find lasting fulfilment of itself. No single face, however beautiful, no
single human soul, however vast, can absorb it. Silencieux, Beatrice,
Wonder, himself, all faded away, in a trance-like sense of a stupendous
passion, an august possession. He felt that within him which rose up
gigantic from the earth, and towered into eyries of space, from whence
that morning star seemed like a dewdrop glittering low down upon the
earth.

It was the god in him that knew itself for one brief space, a moment's
awakening in the sleep of fact.

Could a god so great, so awakened, be again the slave of one earthly
face?

Yes, the greater the god, the greater the slave; and so it was that,
falling plumb down from that skyey exaltation, human again with the
weakness that follows divine moments, Antony returned from the morning
star to Silencieux.

Her face was bathed in the delicate early sunlight and looked very pure
and gentle, and he kissed her.

Surely those terrible words had been an illusion of the dark hours.
Silencieux had never said them. He kissed her again.

"I love you, Silencieux," he said. And then she spoke.

"If you love me, Antony," she said, "if you love me--"

"O what, Silencieux?" he cried, his heart growing cold once more.

"Come nearer, Antony. Put your ear to my lips--Antony, if you love
me--the human sacrifice."

"O God," he cried, "here in the sunlight--It is true--"

And, a man with the doom of his nature heavy upon him, he once more went
out into the wood.


CHAPTER XI


WONDER IN THE WOOD

A few days after this, little Wonder, playing about the garden, had
slipped away from her nurse, and, pleased in her little soul at her
cleverness, had found her way up to her father's châlet. Antony was
sitting at his desk, writing, with his door open.

"Daddy," suddenly came a little voice from the bottom of the staircase,
"Daddy, where are you?"

Antony rose and went to the door.

"Come in, little Wonder. Well, it is a clever girl to come all the way
up the wood by herself."

"Yes, Daddy," said the self-possessed little girl, as she toddled into
the châlet and looked round wonderingly at the books and pictures. Then
presently:

"Daddy, what do you do all day in the wood?"

"I make beautiful things."

"Show me some."

Antony showed her a page of his beautiful manuscript.

"Why, those are only words, silly Daddy!"

"But words, little Wonder, are the most beautiful things in the world.
Listen--" and he took the child on his knee. "Listen:--

  In Xanadu did Kubla Khan
  A stately pleasure-dome decree:
  Where Alph, the sacred river, ran
  Through caverns measureless to man
      Down to a sunless sea.

The child had inherited a love of beautiful sound, and, though she
understood nothing of the meaning, the music charmed her, and she
nestled close to her father, with wide eyes.

"Say some more, Daddy."

The sobbing cadences of the greatest of Irish songs came to Antony's
mind, and he crooned a verse or two at random:

  All day long, in unrest,
  To and fro, do I move.
  The very soul within my breast
  Is wasted for you, love!
  The heart in my bosom faints
  To think of you, my queen,
  My life of life, my saint of saints,
      My dark Rosaleen!
      My own Rosaleen!
  To hear your sweet and sad complaints,
  My life, my love, my saint of saints,
      My dark Rosaleen!....

  Over dews, over sands,
  Will I fly for your weal:
  Your holy delicate white hands
  Shall girdle me with steel.
  At home in your emerald bowers,
  From morning's dawn till e'en,

  You'll pray for me, my flower of flowers,
      My dark Rosaleen!
      My fond Rosaleen!
  You'll think of me thro' daylight hours,
  My virgin flower, my flower of flowers,
      My dark Rosaleen!

  I could scale the blue air,
  I could plough the high hills,
  Oh, I could kneel all night in prayer
      To heal your many ills!
  And one beamy smile from you
  Would float like light between
  My toils and me, my own, my true,
      My dark Rosaleen!
      My fond Rosaleen!
  Would give me life and soul anew,
  A second life, a soul anew,
      My dark Rosaleen!

Wonder, child-like, wearied with the length of the verses, and suddenly
the white face of Silencieux caught her eye.

"Who is that lady, Daddy?"

"That is Silencieux."

"What a pretty name! Is she a kind lady, Daddy?"

"Sometimes."

"She is very beautiful. She is like little mother. But her face is so
white. She makes me frightened. Hold me, Daddy--" and she crouched in
his arms.

"You mustn't be frightened of her, Wonder. She loves little girls. See
how she is smiling at you. She wants to be friends with you. She wants
you to kiss her, little Wonder."

"Oh, no! no!" almost screamed the little girl.

But suddenly a cruel whim to insist came over the father, and,
half-coaxingly and half-forcibly, he held her up to the image, stroking
its white cheek to reassure her.

The wind was drifting the snow outside and howling down the chimney, but
it only made Babouscka's fire burn more brightly.

"How glad I am that I may stay indoors!"

said Babouscka, holding her hands out to the bright blaze.

But suddenly she heard a loud rap at her door.

She opened it and her candle shone on three old men standing outside
in the snow.

Their beards were as white as the snow, and so long that they reached the
ground.

Their eyes shone kindly in the light of Babouscka's candle, and
their arms were full of precious things--boxes of jewels, and
sweet-smelling oils, and ointments.

"We have traveled far, Babouscka," said they, "and we stop to tell
you of the Baby Prince born this night in Bethlehem.

He comes to rule the world and teach all men to be loving and true. We
carry Him gifts.
Come with us, Babouscka!"
But Babouscka looked at the driving snow, and then inside at her cozy
room and the crackling fire. "It is too late for me to go with you, good
sirs," she said, "the weather is too cold."

She went inside again and shut the door, and the old men journeyed on to
Bethlehem without her. But as Babouscka sat by her fire, rocking, she
began to think about the little Christ Child, for she loved all
babies.

"Tomorrow I will go to find Him," she said; "tomorrow, when it is light,
and I will carry Him some toys."
So when it was morning Babouscka put on her long cloak, and took her
staff, and filled a basket with the pretty things a baby would
like--gold balls, and wooden toys, and strings of silver cobwebs--and
she set out to find the Christ Child.

But, oh! Babouscka had forgotten to ask the three old men the road
to Bethlehem, and they had traveled so far through the night that she
could not overtake them. Up and down the roads she hurried, through woods
and fields and towns, saying to whomsoever she met: "I go to find the
Christ Child. Where does he lie? I bring some pretty toys for His
sake."

But no one could tell her the way to go, and they all said: "Farther on,
Babouscka, farther on." So she traveled on, and on, and on for years and
years--but she never found the little Christ Child.

They say that old Babouscka is traveling still, looking for Him. When
it comes Christmas eve, and the children are lying fast asleep, Babouscka
comes softly through the snowy fields and towns, wrapped in her long
cloak and carrying her basket on her arm. With her staff she raps
gently at the doors and goes inside and holds her candle close to
the little children's faces.

"Is He here?" she asks. "Is the little Christ Child here?" And then she
turns sorrowfully away again, crying: "Farther on, farther on." But
before she leaves she takes a toy from her basket and lays it
beside the pillow for a Christmas gift.

"For His sake," she says softly and then hurries on through
the years and forever in search of the little Christ Child.

[*] From "For the Children's Hour," by Bailey and Lewis. Used by permission
of the authors and also the publishers--Milton Bradley Company.

THE BOY WITH THE BOX

By Mary Griggs Van Voorhis

It was an ideal Christmas day.

The sun shone brightly but the air was crisp and cold, and snow and ice
lay sparkling everywhere. A light wind, the night before, had swept the
blue, icebound river clean of scattering snow; and, by two o'clock in
the afternoon, the broad bend near Creighton's mill was fairly
alive with skaters.

The girls in gay caps and scarfs, the boys in sweaters and mackinaws
of every conceivable hue, with here and there a plump, matronly
figure in a plush coat or a tiny fellow in scarlet, made a picture
of life and brilliancy worthy of an artist's finest skill.
Tom Reynolds moved in and out among the happy throng, with swift,
easy strokes, his cap on the back of his curly head, and his brown
eyes shining with excitement. Now and again, he glanced down with
pardonable pride, at the brand new skates that twinkled beneath his
feet. "Jolly Ramblers," sure enough "Jolly Ramblers" they were!Near where she walked, stood, in the midst of a small meadow overgrown
with nettles, the blackened ruin of a cottage long since destroyed by
fire. On the edge of the little sandy lane, perilously near the feet of
the passer-by, was its forgotten well, the mouth choked with weeds and
briers.

In her absorption Beatrice had almost walked into it. Now she parted the
bushes and looked down. A stone fell as she looked, making a sepulchral
echo. What a place to hide one's sorrow in! No one would think of
looking there. Antony might think she had gone away, or he might drag
the three black ponds, but here it was unlikely any one would come. And
in a little while--a very little while--Antony would forget, or
sometimes make himself happy with his unhappiness.

Ah! but Wonder! No, if Antony needed her no more, Wonder did. She must
stay for Wonder's sake. And perhaps, who could say, Antony might yet
need her, might come to her some day and say "Beatrice," with the old
voice. To be really necessary to Antony again, if only for one little
hour,--yes! she could wait and suffer for that.


CHAPTER XIII


THE HUMAN SACRIFICE

The valley was an ill place even for the body, a lair of rheums and
agues; and disembodied fevers waited in wells for the sunk pail. For the
valley was very beautiful, beautiful with that green beauty that only
comes of damp and decay.

Late one October night, Antony, alone with Silencieux, as was now again
his custom, was surprised to hear footsteps coming hastily up the wood,
and even more surprised at the sudden unusual appearance of Beatrice.

"I am sorry to disturb you, Antony," she said, noting with a pang how
the lamp had been arranged to throw a vivid light upon Silencieux, "but
I want you to come down and look at Wonder. I'm afraid she is ill."

"Wonder, ill!" exclaimed Antony, rising with a start, "I will come at
once;" and they went together.

Wonder was lying in her bed, with flushed cheeks and bright yet heavy
eyes.

"Wonder, my little Wonder," said Antony caressingly, as he bent over
her. "Does little Wonder feel ill?"

"Yes, Daddy. I feel so sick, Daddy."

"Never mind; she will be better to-morrow." But he had noticed how
burning hot were her hands, and how dry were her fresh little lips.

"I must go for the doctor at once," he said to his wife, when they were
outside the room. The father, so long asleep, had sprung awake at the
first hint of danger to the little child that in his neglectful way he
loved deeply all the time; and, in spite of the danger to Wonder, a
faint joy stirred in Beatrice's heart to see him thus humanly aroused
once more.

"Kiss me, Beatrice," he said, as he set out upon his errand. "Don't be
anxious, it will be all right." It was the first time he had kissed his
wife for many days.

The doctor's was some three miles away across the moor. It was a bright
starlit night, and Antony, who knew the moor well, had no difficulty in
making his way at a good pace along the mossy tracks. Presently he gave
a little cry of pain and stood still.

"O God," he cried, "it cannot be that. Oh, it cannot."

At that moment for the first time a dreadful thought had crossed his
mind. Suddenly a memory of that afternoon when he had bade Wonder kiss
Silencieux flashed upon him; and once more he heard himself saying:
"Silencieux, I bring you my little child."

But he had never meant it so. It had all been a mad fancy. What was
Silencieux herself but a wilful, selfish dream? He saw it all now. How
could a lifeless image have power over the life of his child?

And yet again, was Silencieux a lifeless image? And still again, if she
were an image, was it not always to an image that humanity from the
beginning had been sacrificed? Yes; perhaps if Silencieux were only an
image there was all the more reason to fear her.

When he returned he would go to Silencieux, go on his knees and beg for
the life of his child. Silencieux had been cruel, but she could hardly
be so cruel as that.

He drove back across the moor by the doctor's side.

"I have always thought you unwise to live in that valley," said the
doctor. "It's pretty, but like most pretty places, it's unhealthy.
Nature can seldom be good and beautiful at the same time." The doctor
was somewhat of a philosopher.

"Your little girl needs the hills. In fact you all do. Your wife isn't
half the woman she was since you took her into the valley. You don't
look any better for it, either. No, sir, believe me, beauty's all very
well, but it's not good to live with--And, by the way, have you had your
well looked at lately? That valley is just a beautiful sewer for the
drainage of the hills; a very market-town for all the germs and bacilli
of the district."

And the doctor laughed, as, curiously enough, people always do at jests
about bacilli.

But when he looked at Wonder, he took a more serious view of bacilli.

"You must have your well looked to at once," he said. "Your little girl
is very ill. She must be kept very quiet, and on no account excited."

Beatrice and Antony took it in turns to watch by Wonder's bed that
night, and once while Beatrice was watching, Antony found time to steal
up the wood with his prayer to Silencieux.

Never had she looked more mask-like, more lifeless.

"Silencieux," he cried, "I wickedly brought you my little child. O give
her back to me again! I cannot bear it. I cannot give her to you,
Silencieux. Take me, if you will. I will gladly die for you. But spare
her. O give her back to me, Silencieux!"

But the image was impassive and made no sign.

"Silencieux," he implored, "speak, for I know you hear me. Are you a
devil, Silencieux; a devil I have worshipped all this time? God help me!
Have you no pity,--what is her little flower-life to you? Why should you
snatch it out of the sun--"

But Silencieux made no sign.

Then Antony grew angry in his remorse: "I hate you, Silencieux. Never
will I look on your face again. You are an evil dream that has stolen
from me the truth of life. I have broken a true heart that loved me,
that would have died for me--for your sake; just to watch your loveless
beauty, to hear the cold music of your voice. You are like the moon that
turns men mad, a hollow shell of silver drawing all your light from the
sun of life, a silver shadow of the golden sun."

But prayer and reproach were alike in vain. Silencieux remained
unheeding, and Antony returned to watch by Beatrice's side, with a heart
that had now no hope, and a soul weighed down with the sense of
irrevocable sin. There lay the little life he had murdered, delivered up
to the Moloch of Art. No sorrow, no agonies, were now of any avail for
ever. Little Wonder would surely die, and all the old lost opportunities
of loving her could never return. He had loved the shadow. This was a
part of the price.

Day after day the cruel fever consumed Wonder as fire consumes a flower.
Unto Us a Child Is Born--Phebe A. Curtiss 153
XX. The Star--Florence M. Kingsley 159

THE LEGEND OF THE "WHITE GIFTS"
As Told by Phebe A.

Curtiss

A great many years ago in a land far away from us there was a certain
king who was dearly beloved by all of his people. Men admired him because
he was strong and just. In all of his dealings they knew they could depend
upon him. Every matter that came to his consideration was
carefully weighed in his mind and his decisions were always wise.
Women trusted him because he was pure and true, with lofty thoughts
and high ambitions, and the children loved him because of his
gentleness and tenderness toward them. He was never so burdened with
affairs of state that he could not stop to speak a pleasant word of
greeting to the tiniest child, and the very poorest of his subjects
knew they could count upon his interest in them.

This deep-seated love and reverence for their king made the people of
this country wish very much for a way in which to give expression to
it so that he would understand it.

Many consultations were held and one after another the plans suggested
were rejected, but at last a most happy solution was found. It was
rapidly circulated here and there and it met with the most hearty
approval everywhere.

It was a plan for celebrating the King's birthday.

Of course, that had been done in many lands before, but there were
certain features about this celebration which differed materially
from anything that had ever been tried. They decided that on the King's
birthday the people should all bring him gifts, but they wanted in some
way to let him know that these gifts were the expression of a love on
the part of the giver which was pure and true and unselfish, and
in order to show that, it was decided that each gift should be a
"White Gift."

The King heard about this beautiful plan, and it touched his heart in a
wonderful way. He decided that he would do his part to carry out the
idea and let his loving subjects know how much he appreciated their
thoughtfulness.

You can just imagine the excitement there was all over the land as
the King's birthday drew near.

All sorts of loving sacrifices had been made and everyone was anxious
to make his gift the very best he had to offer. At last the day dawned,
and eagerly the people came dressed in white and carrying their white
gifts. To their surprise they were ushered into a great, big room--the
largest one in the palace. They stood in silence when they first
entered it, for it was beautiful beyond all expression.

It was a _white_ room;--the floor was white marble; the ceiling looked
like a mass of soft, white fluffy clouds; the walls were hung with
beautiful white silken draperies, and all the furnishings were
white. In one end of the room stood a stately white throne, and seated
upon it was their beloved ruler and he was clad in shining white
robes, and his attendants--all dressed in white--were grouped around
him.

Then came the presentation of the gifts. What a wealth of them there
was--and how different they were in value. In those days it was just as
it is now--there were many people who had great wealth, and they brought
gifts which were generous in proportion to their wealth.

One brought a handful of pearls, another a number of carved ivories.

There were beautiful laces and silks and embroideries, all in pure white,
and even splendid white chargers were brought to his majesty.

But many of the people were poor--some of them very poor--and their
gifts were quite different from those I have been telling about. Some
of the women brought handfuls of white rice, some of the boys
brought their favorite white pigeons, and one dear little girl
smilingly gave him a pure white rose.

It was wonderful to watch the King as each one came and kneeled before
him as he presented his gift. He never seemed to notice whether the
gift was great or small; he regarded not one gift above another
so long as all were white. Never had the King been so happy as he was
that day and never had such real joy filled the hearts of the
people.
They decided to use the same plan every year, and so it came to pass
that year after year on the King's birthday the people came from here
and there and everywhere and brought their white gifts--the gifts
which showed that their love was pure, strong, true and without
stain, and year after year the King sat in his white robes on the
white throne in the great white room and it was always the same--he
regarded not one gift above another so long as all were _white_.

HER BIRTHDAY DREAM[*]
By Nellie C. King

Marcia Brownlow came out of the church, and walked rapidly down the
street.

She seemed perturbed; her gray eyes flashed, and on her cheeks glowed two
red spots. She was glad she was not going home, so she wouldn't have to
take a car, but could walk the short distance to Aunt Sophy's, where
she had been invited to dine and visit with her special chum,
Cousin Jack--who was home from college for the short Thanksgiving
vacation.

She slowed up as she reached her destination, and waited a little before
going in--she wanted to get calmed down a bit, for she didn't want
her friend to see her when she felt so "riled up."

Back of it was a secret reluctance to meet Jack--he was so different since
the Gipsy Smith revival; of course, he was perfectly lovely, and
unchanged toward her, but--somehow, she felt uncomfortable in his
presence--and she didn't enjoy having her self-satisfaction disturbed.

As she entered the dining-room, she was greeted with exclamations
of surprise and pleasure.

"Why, Marcia!" said Aunt Sophia; "we had given you up! I almost never
knew of your being late in keeping an appointment."
"You must excuse me, Auntie; and lay this offense to the charge of our
Sunday school superintendent," answered Marcia.

"I suppose Mr. Robinson is laying his plans for Christmas," remarked
Uncle John.

"He believes in taking time by the forelock--and a very commendable
habit it is, too."

"Yes," answered Marcia laconically.

Jack glanced at her keenly. "Is there anything new in the Christmas
line?" he asked.

The gray eyes grew black, and the red spots burned again, as
Marcia replied: "Well, I should think so--he proposes to turn things
topsy-turvy!"
"My! What does he want to do?" inquired Cousin Augusta.

"Oh, he calls it the 'White Gift Christmas'; but the long and short
of the matter is, that he proposes to 'turn down' Santa Claus, and
all the old time-honored customs connected with Christmas that are
so dear to the hearts of the children, and have the school do the
giving.

He has a big banner hung up in the Sunday school room bearing the words,
'Gifts for the Christ-Child'."

"An excellent idea," exclaimed Uncle John, "but I don't see much of an
innovation about that; you have always made the children's giving a
part of your Christmas celebration, have you not?"
"Certainly!" rejoined Marcia. "They have always brought their little gifts
for the poor, and that is all right; but this time there are no gifts
to the Sunday school at all."
"Not even to the Primary School?" asked Augusta.

"Well," admitted Marcia, "Mr.

Robinson gave the children their choice today, whether they would
have the old Christmas or the 'White Gift Christmas,' and they all
voted for the new idea."

"Why then should the children be obliged to have gifts, if they don't
want them?" laughed Augusta.

"Oh, children are always taken with novelty, and Mr. Robinson told it to
them in such a way that fancy was captivated; but I don't think
they really understood what they were giving up."

"Marcia, it seems to me that your are emphasizing the wrong side of the
subject if I understand it aright," said Jack.

"Why, do you know about it?" asked Marcia, in surprise.

"Not much," replied Jack; "but I read the White Gift story in the
'Sunday School Times,' and the report of the Painesville experiment."
"Well, Jack, tell us what you know about this mysterious 'White Gift',"
commanded his father.

"I would rather Marcia should tell it, father; I know so little."

"Oh, go on, Jack," urged Marcia; "you can't possibly know less
about it than I do, for I confess I was so full of the disappointment
of the little ones that the other side of it didn't impress me
very much."

"Well, as I remember it," said Jack, "the gist of the plan is this--that
Christmas is Christ's birthday, and we should make our gifts to him,
instead of to one another; and the idea of the White Gift was
suggested by the story of the Persian king named Kublah Khan, who
was a wise and good ruler, and greatly beloved.

On his birthday his subjects kept what they called the 'White Feast.'

This was celebrated in an immense great white banqueting-hall, and each
one of his subjects brought to their king a white gift to express that
the love and loyalty of their hearts was without stain. The rich
brought white chargers, ivory and alabaster; the poor brought white
pigeons, or even a measure of rice; and the great king regarded all
gifts alike, so long as they were white.

Have I told it right, cousin?" queried Jack.

"Yes, I think so.

It is a beautiful thought, I must confess, and might be all right
in a large, rich Sunday school; but in a mission school like ours
I am sure it will be a failure.

It will end in our losing our scholars. I don't believe in taking up new
ideas without considering whether they are adapted to our needs
or not.

But please, dear folkses, don't let us say anything more about it,"
pleaded Marcia, and so the subject was dropped.

That evening as Jack Thornton bade his cousin good-bye, he placed
in her hand a little package, saying: "I am so sorry, Marcia, that
I can't be here for your birthday, but here is my remembrance.

Now don't you dare open it before Tuesday, and, dear, you may be
sure it is a 'white gift,' and may you have a 'white birthday'." And
before she could say a word, he had opened the door, and was
gone.

Touched by his thoughtful gift and his words, she said to herself:
"A 'white birthday!'

I always have perfectly beautiful birthdays." And so she did; for
she was always looking out for other people's birthdays, and making
much of them; and so she always got the gospel measure:
"Give, and it shall be given unto you; good measure, pressed down, and
shaken together, and running over, shall man give into your bosom."
But these thoughts were crowded out by the pressure of things to
be done--father and mother had gone into the country to visit a
sick friend, and the younger brothers and sisters surrounded her
and clamored for songs and Bible stories, and as she was a good
older sister she devoted herself to them until their bedtime.

Then, turning out the lights, she sat down in an easy chair before the
library grate, and yielded herself to the spell of the quiet hour.

The strained, irritated nerves relaxed, and a strange, sweet peace
stole over her. As she gazed dreamily into the fire, a star seemed to
rise out of the glowing coals, and beam at her with a beautiful
soft radiance, and the words of the Evangel came into her mind: "And
when they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceeding joy; and when they
were come into the house they saw the young child, with Mary his
mother, and they fell down and worshipped him; and when they had
opened their treasures they presented unto him gifts, gold,
frankincense and myrrh."

She repeated the words over and over to herself. How simple and restful
they were; how direct and genuine and satisfying was this old-time
giving!

There it was--Gifts for the Christ-Child--"They presented unto him gifts,
gold, frankincense and myrrh." She remembered reading somewhere that
the gold represented our earthly possessions, the frankincense
typified our service and the myrrh our suffering for his sake.

As she gazed into the fire, and mused, she fell asleep, and all these
thoughts were woven into the fabric of a dream--and who shall say that
God does not speak to his children still in dreams?

She dreamed that it was the morning of her birthday. She heard cheery
voices in the hall calling out to one another: "This is Marcia's
birthday. Wish you many returns of the day!" There was an excited
running to and fro between the different rooms, and gleeful exclamations--but
no one came near her!

She sat up in bed listening, and wondering what it could mean! Why, mother
always came into her room, and folded her to her heart, and said
those precious things that only a mother can say; and the children
always scrambled to see who should be the first to give sister a
birthday kiss.

Were they playing some joke on her? She would be quiet and watch, and so
not be taken unawares.

Presently they went trooping happily downstairs into the dining-room,
and she heard father's voice say: "Good morning, children; I wish
you many happy returns of Marcia's birthday."

What did it all mean? Was she going crazy? Or were they just going to
surprise her by some novel way of celebrating her birthday? She arose,
and with trembling fingers dressed herself hastily, and stole softly
down the stairs, and looked into the dining-room. Hush!--father was
asking a blessing. He returned thanks for dear Marcia's birthday, and
asked that it should be a happy day for them all.

Beside each plate save her own, were various packages; and these were
opened amid ejaculations of surprise and pleasure, and sundry hugs
and kisses.

After the first burst of happiness had subsided, Marcia braced
herself and entered the dining-room, saying with forced gayety: "Good
morning, dear ones all."

They looked up with blank, unanswering faces, and said: "Good morning,
Marcia"--that was all.

But Marcia's heart leaped at the recognition of her presence, for
she had begun to fear that she was dead, and that it was her spirit
that was wandering about.

She stooped and kissed her mother, who murmured abstractedly, "Yes,
dear," never once looking up from the presents she was examining.

With a sinking heart she turned away from her mother and went and
stood behind her father's chair, and leaning over whispered in his
ear:
"Dear father, have you forgotten that this is my birthday?"

He answered kindly but absent-mindedly: "Why, daughter, am I likely
to forget it with all these tokens around me?"

--and he waved his hand toward the gifts piled around his plate.

This was almost more than Marcia could bear, for father was always specially
tender and attentive to her on her birthday. She always sat on his
knee a while; and he told her what a joy and comfort she was to him, and
he always paid her some pretty compliment that made her girlish heart
swell with innocent pride, for every girl knows that compliments
from one's father are a little sweeter than any others.

In vain she hung around waiting for some clue to this mysterious, unnatural
conduct of the family. They were all absorbed in plans for spending
this birthday--Marcia's birthday, but no reference whatever was made to
what she liked; no one consulted her as to what she wanted to do, or
to have done. The boys were going skating in the forenoon; the little
girls were to invite four of their friends to help serve the first
dinner in the new doll's house, and in the afternoon father would take
them all for an automobile ride into the country to a dear friend's--all
but Marcia, who couldn't bear to get into an auto since a terrible
accident she had been in a few weeks ago.

A troop of her girl friends came in, and in a conventional way wished her
"many happy returns" of the day; and then proceeded to ignore her, and
gave gifts to other members of the family. "It is a wonder," thought
Marcia, bitterly, "that they didn't have a birthday party for
Marcia with Marcia left out."

And so it went on all through that strange, miserable day; while they
were all busy celebrating her birthday, she herself was neglected and
ignored as she sat in the quiet house alone in the twilight--for she
had no heart to light the gas--just homesick for the personal love
which had characterized all her birthdays and all her home life
heretofore, there came a timid knock on the door, and as Marcia
opened it, there stood little crippled Joe, one of her scholars in
the Mission Sunday school.

As he saw her, he gave a little exclamation of surprise and delight, and
said: "O Miss Marshay! I hearn last night 'twas yer berthday today, an'
I wanted to guv yer suthin' white, like Mr. Robinson he told us 'bout,
don't yer know?--an' 'caus yer has allers treated me so white--'n'--'n'
I didn't hev nuthin', 'n so I axed Him, ye know, what yer telled
us 'bout in Sunday school--Jesus; who died on the cross, and who's
allers willin' to help a poor feller--an' I axed Him to help me get
suthin' real nice 'n' white fer uer birthday; 'n I kep' me eyes
peeled all day 'xpectin' it, 'n just now a reel swell feller buyed
a paper of me, 'n then he guv he this here bunch uv white sweet
smellin' posies, 'thout my sayin' a word.

Here they be, Miss Marshay fer yer. Giminy, teacher, ain't them purty?

An' O, teacher--He made 'm in the fust place 'n had the man guv
them to me, 'n so I reckon He 'n me's pardners in this here white
gift bizness." And he held up in his thin, grimy hand a bunch of white,
sweet-scented violets.

Marcia's first impulse was to catch up the little fellow and his gift
in her arms, and baptize them with a flood of tears from her own
overcharged heart!

Happiness is such a frightened thing that it flies at
the sound of its own name. And yet of what shall we speak if not our
happiness? Of our sorrows we can keep silence, but our joys we long to
utter.

So Beatrice spoke of her great happiness to Antony, and told him too of
her old great unhappiness and her longing for death.

"What a strange and terrible dream it has been--but thank God, we are
out in the daylight at last," said Antony. "O my little Beatrice, to
think that I could have forsaken you like that! Surely if you had come
and taken me by the hands and looked deep into my eyes, and called me
out of the dream, I must have awakened, for, cruel as it was, the dream
was but part of a greater dream, the dream of my love for you--"

"But I understand it all now," he continued, "see it all. Do you
remember saying that perhaps I had never loved anything but images all
my life? It was quite true. Since I can remember, when I thought I loved
something I was sure to find sooner or later that I loved less the
object itself than what I could say about it, and when I had said
something beautiful, something I could remember and say over and over to
myself, I cared little if the object were removed. The spiritual essence
of it seemed to have passed over into my words, and I loved the
reincarnation best. Only at last have I awakened to realities, and the
shadows flee away. The worshipper of the Image is dead within me. But
alas! that little Wonder had to die first--"

"I used to tell myself," he went on, "that human life, however
exquisite, without art to eternalise it, was like a rose showering its
petals upon the ground. For so brief a space the rose stood perfect,
then fell in a ruin of perfume. Wonderful moments had human life, but
without art were they not like pearls falling into a gulf? So I said:
there is nothing real but art. The material of art passes--human love,
human beauty--but art remains. It is the image, not the reality, that
is everlasting. I will live in the image."

"But I know now," he once more resumed, "that there is a higher
immortality than art's,--the immortality of love. The immortality of art
indeed is one of those curious illusions of man's self-love which a
moment's thought dispels. Art, who need be told, is as dependent for its
survival on the survival of its physical media as man's body itself--and
though the epic and the great canvas escape combustion for a million
years, they must burn at last, burn with all the other accumulated
shadows of time. What we call immortality in art is but the shadow of
the soul's immortality; but the immortality of love is that of the soul
itself--"

"O Antony," interrupted Beatrice, "you really believe that now? You will
never doubt it again?"

"We never doubt what we have really seen, and I had never seen before,"
answered Antony, taking her hand and looking deep into her eyes, "never
seen it as I see it now."

"And you will never doubt it again?"

"Never."

"Whatever that voice should say to you?"

"I shall never hear that voice again."

"O Antony, is it really true? You have come back to me. I can hardly
believe it."

"Listen, Beatrice; when we return to the Valley, return only to leave it
for ever, I will take the Image and smash it in a hundred pieces--for I
hate it now as much as I once loved it. Fear not; it will never trouble
our peace again."

The mention of the valley was a momentary cloud on Beatrice's happiness,
but as she looked into Antony's resolute love-lit face, it melted away.


CHAPTER XX


ANTONY'S JUDGMENT UPON SILENCIEUX

So the weeks and months went by for those two upon the hills, and the
soul of Antony grew stronger day by day, and his love with it--and the
face of Beatrice was like a bird singing. At last the spring came, and
the snow was no more needed to keep warm the flowers. With the flowers
came the snowdrop-soul of Wonder, and the thoughts of mother and father
turned to the place of kind old trees and tender country bells, where in
the unflowering November they had laid her. These dark months the chemic
earth had been busy with the little body they loved, and by this time
Wonder would be many violets.

"Let us go to Wonder," they said; "she is awake now."

So they went to Wonder, and found her surrounded, in her earth cradle,
by a great singing of birds, and blossoms and green leaves innumerable.
It was more like a palace than a graveyard, and they went away happy for
their little one.

There remained now to take leave of the valley, which indeed looked its
loveliest, as though to allure them to remain. Some days they must stay
to make the necessary preparations for their departure. Among these, in
Antony's mind, the first and most necessary was that destruction of
Silencieux which he had promised himself and his wife upon the hills.

The first afternoon Beatrice noted him take a great hammer, and set out
up the wood. She gave him a look of love and trust as he went--though
there was a secret tremor in her heart, for she knew, perhaps better
than he, how strong was the power of Silencieux.

But in Antony's heart was no misgiving, or backsliding. In those months
on the hills he had realised human love, in the love of a true and
tender and fairy-like woman, and he knew that no illusions, however
specious, were worth that reality--a reality with all the magic of an
illusion. He gripped the hammer in his hand joyfully, eager to smite
featureless the face which had so misled him, brought such tragic sorrow
to those he had loved.

Still, for all his unshaken purpose, it was strange to see again the
face that had meant so much to him, around which his thoughts had
circled consciously or unconsciously all these absent weeks.

Seldom has a face seen again after long separation seemed so
disenchanted as Silencieux's. Was this she whom he had worshipped, she
who had told him in that strange voice of her immortal lovers, she with
whom he had sung by the sea, she with whom he had danced those strange
dances in the town, she who had whispered low that awful command, she to
whom he had sacrificed his little child?

She was just a dusty, neglected cast--nothing more.

Wonder's voice came back to him: "No, Daddy, they tasted of dust"--and
at that thought he gripped the hammer ready to strike.

And yet, even thus, she was a beautiful work of man's hands, and Antony,
hating to destroy beauty, still forbore to strike--just as he would have
shrunk from breaking in pieces a shapely vase. Then, too, the
resemblance to Beatrice took him again. Crudely to smash features so
like hers seemed a sort of mimic murder. So he still hesitated. Was
there no other way? Then the thought came to him: "Bury her." It pleased
him. Yes, he would bury her.

So, having found a spade, he took her from the wall, and looked from
his door into the wood, pondering where her grave should be. A whitebeam
at a little distance made a vivid conflagration of green amid the sombre
boles of the pines. Pinewoods rely on their undergrowth--bracken and
whortleberry and occasional bushes--for their spring illuminations, and
the whitebeam shone as bright in that wood as a lamp in the dark.

"I will bury her beneath the whitebeam," said Antony, and he carried her
thither.

Soon the grave was dug amid the pushing fronds of the young ferns, and
taking one long look at her, Antony laid her in the earth, and covered
her up from sight. Was it only fancy that as he turned away a faint
music seemed to arise from the ground, forming into the word "Resurgam"
as it died away?

"It is done," said Antony to Beatrice. "But I could not break her, she
looked so like you; so I buried her in the wood."

Beatrice kissed him gratefully. But her heart would have been more
satisfied had Silencieux been broken.


CHAPTER XXI


"RESURGAM!"

"Resurgam!"

Had his senses deceived him? They must have deceived him. And yet that
music at least had seemed startlingly near, sudden, and sweet, as though
one should tread upon a harp in the grass. For the next day or two
Antony could not get it out of his ears, and often, like a sweet wail
through the wood, he seemed to hear the word "Resurgam."

Was Silencieux a living spirit, after all,--no mere illusion, but one of
those beautiful demons of evil that do possess the souls of men?

He went and stood by Silencieux's grave. It was just as he had left it.
Only an early yellow butterfly stood fanning itself on the freshly
turned earth.

Was it the soul of Silencieux?

Cursing himself for a madman, he turned away, but had not gone many
yards, when once more--there was that sudden strain of music and the
word "Resurgam" somewhere on the wind.

This time he knew he was not mistaken, but to believe it true--O God, he
must not believe it true. Reality or fancy, it was an evil thing which
he had cast out of his life--and he closed his ears and fled.

Yet, though he loyally strove to quench that music in the sound of
Beatrice's voice, deep in his heart he knew that the night would come
when he would take his lantern and spade, wearily, as one who at length
after hopeless striving obeys once more some imperious weakness--and
look on the face of Silencieux again.

Too surely that night came, and, as in a dream, Antony found himself in
the dark spring night hastening with lantern and spade to Silencieux's
grave. It was only just to look on her face again, to see if she really
lived like a vampire in the earth; and were she to be alive, he vowed to
kill her where she lay--for into his life again he knew she must not
come.

As he neared the whitebeam, a gust of wind blew out his lantern, and he
stood in the profound darkness of the trees. While he attempted to
relight it, he thought he saw a faint light at the foot of the
whitebeam, as of a radiance welling out of the earth; but he dismissed
it as fancy.

Then, having relit the lantern, he set the spade into the ground, and
speedily removed the soil from the white face below. As he uncovered it,
the wind again extinguished the lantern, and there, to his amazement and
terror, was the face of Silencieux shining radiantly in the darkness.
The hole in which she lay brimmed over with light, as a spring wells
out of the hillside. Her face was almost transparent with brightness,
and presently she spoke low, with a voice sweeter than Antony had ever
heard before. It was the voice of that magic harp at the bottom of the
sea, it was the voice that had told him of her lovers, the voice of
hidden music that had cried "Resurgam" through the wood.

"Antony," she said, "sing me songs of little Wonder."

And, forgetting all but the magic of her voice, the ecstasy of being
hers again, Antony carried her with him to the châlet, and setting her
in her accustomed place, gazed at her with his whole soul.

"Sing me songs of little Wonder," she repeated.

"You bid me sing of little Wonder!" cried Antony, half in terror of this
beautiful evil face that drew him irresistibly as the moon, "you, who
took her from me!"

"Who but I should bid you sing of Wonder?" answered Silencieux. "I
loved her. That was why I took her from you, that by your grief she
should live for ever. There is no one but I who can give you back your
little Wonder--no one but I who can give you back anything you have
lost. If you love me faithfully, Antony--there is nothing you can lose
but in me you will find it again."

Antony bowed his head, his heart breaking for Beatrice--but who is not
powerless against his own soul?

"Listen," said Silencieux again. "Once on a time there was a beautiful
girl who died, and from her grave grew a wonderful flower, which all the
world came to see. 'Yet it seems a pity,' said one, 'that so beautiful a
girl should have died.' 'Ah,' said a poet standing by, 'there was no
other way of making the flower!'"

And again, as Antony still kept silence in his agony, Silencieux said,
"Listen."

"Listen, Antony. You have hidden yourself away from me, you have put
seas and lands between us, you have denied me with bitter curses, you
have vowed to thrust me from your life, you have given your allegiance
to the warm and pretty humanity of a day, and reviled the august cold
marble of immortality. But it is all in vain. In your heart of hearts
you love no human thing, you love not even yourself, you love only the
eternal spirit of beauty in all things, you love only me. Me you may
sacrifice, your own heart you may deny, in the weakness of human pity
for human love; but, should this be, your life will be in secret broken,
purposeless, and haunted, and to me at last you will come, at the
end--at the end and too late. This is your own heart's voice; you know
if it be true."

"It is true," moaned Antony.

"Many men and many loves are there in this world," continued
Silencieux, "and each knows the way of his own love, nor shall anything
turn him from it in the end. Here he may go and thither he may turn, but
in the end there is only one way of joy for each, and in that way must
he go or perish. Many faces are fair upon the earth, but for each man is
a face fairest of all, for which, unless he win it, each must go
desolate forever--"

"Face of Eternal Beauty," said Antony, "there is but one face for me for
ever. It is yours."

       *       *       *       *       *

On the morrow Beatrice saw once more that light in Antony's face which
made her afraid. He had brought with him some sheets of paper on which
were written the songs of little Wonder Silencieux had bidden him sing.
They were songs of grief so poignant and beautiful one grew happy in
listening to them, and Antony forgot all in the joy of having made
them. He read them to Beatrice in an ecstasy. Her face grew sadder and
sadder as he read. When he had finished she said:--

"Antony!--Silencieux has risen again."

"O Beatrice, Beatrice--I would do anything in the world for you--but I
cannot live without her."


CHAPTER XXII


THE STRANGENESS OF ANTONY

From this moment Silencieux took possession of Antony as she had never
taken it before. Never had he been so inaccessibly withdrawn into his
fatal dream. Beatrice forgot her own bitter sorrow in her fear for him,
so wrought was he with the fires that consumed him. Some days she almost
feared for his reason, and she longed to watch over him, but his old
irritation at her presence had returned.

Still, as it grew, it complained: "Oh! how I wish I were as tall as
the other trees; then I would spread out my branches on every side, and
my crown would overlook the wide world around. I should have the birds
building their nests on my boughs, and when the wind blew, I should
bow with stately dignity, like my tall companions."

So discontented was the tree, that it took no pleasure in the warm
sunshine, the birds, or the rosy clouds that floated over it morning
and evening.

Sometimes in winter, when the snow lay white and glittering on the
ground, there was a little hare that would come springing along, and jump
right over the little tree's head; then how mortified it would feel.

Two winters passed; and when the third arrived, the tree had grown so tall
that the hare was obliged to run round it. Yet it remained unsatisfied,
and would exclaim, "Oh! to grow, to grow; if I could but keep on growing
tall and old! There is nothing else worth caring for in the world."
In the autumn the woodcutters came, as usual, and cut down several
of the tallest trees; and the young fir, which was now grown to its
full height, shuddered as the noble trees fell to the earth with a
crash.

After the branches were lopped off, the trunks looked so slender and
bare that they could scarcely be recognized. Then they were placed, one
upon another, upon wagons, and drawn by horses out of the forest.

"Where could they be going? What would become of them?" The young fir
tree wished very much to know.

So in the spring, when the swallows and the storks came, it asked,
"Do you know where those trees were taken?

Did you meet them?"

The swallows knew nothing; but the stork, after a little reflection,
nodded his head, and said, "Yes, I think I do. As I flew from Egypt,
I saw several new ships, and they had fine masts that smelt like
fir.

These must have been the trees; and I assure you they were stately; they
sailed right gloriously!"
"Oh, how I wish I were tall enough to go on the sea," said the fir
tree.As he spoke he snatched a dagger from among some bibelots on his mantel,
and drew it from its sheath.

"You are proud of your martyrs," he laughed; "see, I will bleed to death
for your sake. In God's name speak."

But Silencieux spoke nothing at all.

Then Beatrice, watching in terror, seeing by his face that he would
really kill himself, ran round to the door and broke in, crying, "O my
poor Antony!" but already he had plunged the dagger amid the veins of
his left wrist, and was watching the blood gush out with a strange
delight.

As Beatrice burst in, he looked up at her, and mistook her for
Silencieux.

"Ah!" he said, "you speak at last. You love me now, when it is too
late--when I am dying."

As he said this his face grew white and he fainted away.

For many days Antony lay unconscious, racked by terrible delirium. The
doctor called it brain fever. It was not the common form, he said, but a
more dangerous form, to which only imaginative men were subject. It was
a form of madness all the more malignant because the sufferer, and
particularly his friends, might go for years without suspecting it. The
doctor gave the disease no name.

During his illness Antony spoke to Beatrice all the time as Silencieux,
but one day, when he was nearly well again, he suddenly turned upon her
in enraged disappointment, with a curious harshness he had never shown
before, as though the gentleness of his soul had died during his
illness, and exclaimed:--"Why, you are not Silencieux, after all!"

Pupils usually have difficulty with words ending in sts, dth, pth. Lists
of such words should be drilled upon:--
Nests, vests, posts, hosts, boasts, fists, mists, frosts, length,
breadth, depth.

"He thrusts his fists against the posts, And still insists he sees
the ghosts."

(If necessary show the pupils how to adjust the vocal organs to
make the different sounds.)

m, n, ng (nasal)
p, b, w, m (lips) f, v (lips and teeth) t, d, s, z, n (tongue and hard
palate.) j, ch, (tongue and hard palate-back) k, g, ng (tongue and
soft palate.) y, l (tongue, hard palate and soft palate.) p, b, d,
t, j, k, h, g, ch (momentary) w, f, v, s, l, r, y, th, sh (continuous)

The majority of children learn the sounds by imitation and
repetition.

The above is to help the teacher in giving the sounds correctly.

SECOND YEAR

_I. Review Single and Blended Consonants, Digraphs, Short and Long
Vowels, and All Phonograms._ 

_II.

Continue Pronouncing Exercises, Teaching New Phonograms._
Continue word study by the analytic-synthetic process.

These phonic drills will deal largely with the new words that occur
in the daily reading lessons.

_III. Syllabication._

In mastering the pronunciation of new words, pupils should acquire the
habit of analyzing them into syllables.

The ear must be trained to _hear_ syllables, they should be _separately
pronounced_, and _clearly imaged_.

This makes for effective spelling later. Most of the difficulties in
spelling are removed when the habit of breaking up a complex word into
its elements is acquired.

re mem ber ther mom e ter sep a rate in de pen dence dan de lion mul
ti pli ca tion beau ti ful re frig er a tor

_IV. Teach the Long Vowel Sounds._
We have found that the short vowels predominate in the English
language.

The long vowel sounds come next in frequency. When the child has mastered
the letters and combinations representing these two sounds, he is able
to recognize a large majority of the phonetic words in our language.

Phonetic words follow definite rules of pronunciation. These rules are
not to be formally taught in the first and second years, but pointed
out by examples, so that the visual and auditory image may be
associated.

Then noting how full of blossom were the lanes, and how sweet was the
night air, and smitten through all her senses with the song and perfume
of the world she was about to leave, she found her way, with a strange
gladness of release, to the Three Black Ponds.

It was moonlight, and the dwarf oak-trees made druid shadows all along
the leafy galleries that overhung the pools. The pools themselves shone
with a startling silver--so hushed, so dreamy was all that surrounded
them that there seemed something of an unnatural wakefulness, a daylight
observation, in their brilliant surfaces,--and on them, as last year,
the lilies floated like the crowns of sunken queens. But the third pool
lay more in shadow, and by that, as it seemed to Beatrice, a light was
shining.

Yes, a light was shining and a voice was calling. "Mother," it called,
"little Mother. I am waiting for you. Here, little Mother. Here by the
water-lilies we could not gather."

Beatrice, following the voice, stepped along the causeway and sank among
the lilies; and as she sank she seemed to see Antony bending over the
pond, saying: "How beautiful she looks, how beautiful, lying there among
the lilies!"

       *       *       *       *       *

On the morrow, when they had drawn Beatrice from the pond, with lilies
in her hair, Antony bent over her and said:--

"It is very sad--Poor little Beatrice--but how beautiful! It must be
wonderful to die like that."

And then again he said: "She is strangely like Silencieux."

Then he walked up the wood, in a great serenity of mind. He had lost
Wonder, but she lived again in his songs. He had lost Beatrice, but he
had her image--did she not live for ever in Silencieux?

So he went up the wood, whistling softly to himself--but lo! when he
opened his châlet door, there was a strange light in the room. The eyes
of Silencieux were wide open, and from her lips hung a dark moth with
the face of death between his wings.

THE END