The next morning when I entered the Emperor's room he did not mention
this visit of the Empress; but I found him suffering and dejected, and
sighs which he could not repress issued from his breast.  He did not
speak during the whole time his toilet lasted, and as soon as it was
completed entered his cabinet.  This was the day on which Josephine was
to leave the Tuileries for Malmaison, and all persons not engaged in
their duties assembled in the vestibule to see once more this dethroned
empress whom all hearts followed in her exile.  Enter Page from
dining-room.

PAGE.--Miss Prior! please, the ladies are coming from the
dining-room.
Mrs. B. have had her two glasses of port, and her ladyship is now
a-telling the story about the Prince of Wales when she danced with
him at Canton House.A concert of inexpressible lamentations
arose as this adored woman crossed the short space which separated her
from her carriage, and entered it without even a glance at the palace she
was--quitting--quitting forever;--the blinds were immediately lowered,
and the horses set off at full speed.


CHAPTER XXIV.

The marriage of the Emperor to Marie Louise was the first step in a new
career.  He flattered himself that it would be as glorious as that he had
just brought to a close, but it was to be far otherwise.  Before entering
on a recital of the events of the year 1810, I shall narrate some
recollections, jotted down at random, which, although I can assign them
no precise date, were, nevertheless, anterior to the period we have now
reached.

The Empress Josephine had long been jealous of the beautiful Madame
Gazani, one of her readers, and treated her coldly; and when she
complained to the Emperor, he spoke to Josephine on the subject, and
requested her to show more consideration for her reader, who deserved it
on account of her attachment to the person of the Empress, and added that
she was wrong in supposing that there was between Madame Gazani and
himself the least liaison.  The Empress, without being convinced by this
last declaration of the Emperor, had nevertheless become much more
cordial to Madame Gazani, when one morning the Emperor, who apparently
was afraid the beautiful Genoese might obtain some ascendency over her,
suddenly entered the Empress's apartment, and said to her, "I do not wish
to see Madame Gazani here longer; she must return to Italy."  This time
it was the good Josephine who defended her reader.  There were already
rumors of a divorce; and the Empress remarked to his Majesty, "You know
well, my friend, that the best means of being rid of Madame Gazani's
presence is to allow her to remain with me.  Let me keep her, then.
We can weep together; she and I understand each other well."

From this time the Empress was a firm friend of Madame Gazani, who
accompanied her to Malmaison and Navarre.  What increased the kind
feelings of the Empress for this lady was that she thought her distressed
by the Emperor's inconstancy.  For my part, I have always believed that
Madame Gazani's attachment to the Emperor was sincere, and her pride must
have suffered when she was dismissed; but she had no difficulty in
consoling herself in the midst of the homage and adoration which
naturally surrounded such a pretty woman.

The name of the Empress Josephine recalls two anecdotes which the Emperor
himself related to me.  The outrageous extravagance in the Empress's
household was a continual vexation to him, and he had dismissed several
furnishers of whose disposition to abuse Josephine's ready credulity he
had ample proof.

One morning he entered the Empress's apartments unannounced, and found
there assembled several ladies holding a secret toilet council, and a
celebrated milliner making an official report as to all the handsomest
and most elegant novelties.  She was one of the very persons whom the
Emperor had expressly forbidden to enter the palace; and he did not
anticipate finding her there.  Yet he made no outburst; and Josephine,
who knew him better than any one else, was the only one who understood
the irony of his look as he retired, saying, "Continue ladies; I am sorry
to have disturbed you."  The milliner, much astonished that she was not
put rudely out of the door, hastened to retire; but when she reached the
last step of the stairs leading to the apartments of her Majesty the
Empress, she encountered an agent of the police, who requested her as
politely as possible to enter a cab which awaited her in the Court of the
Carrousel.  In vain she protested that she much preferred walking; the
agent, who had received precise instructions, seized her arm in such a
manner as to prevent all reply, and she was obliged to obey, and to take
in this unpleasant company the road to Bicetre.

Some one related to the Emperor that this arrest had caused much talk in
Paris, and that he was loudly accused of wishing to restore the Bastile;
that many persons had visited the prisoner, and expressed their sympathy,
and there was a procession of carriages constantly before the prison.

His Majesty took no notice of this, and was much amused by the interest
excited in this seller of topknots, as he called her.  "I will," said his
Majesty on this subject, "let the gossips talk, who think it a point of
honor to ruin themselves for gewgaws; but I want this old Jewess to learn
that I put her inside because she had forgotten that I told her to stay
outside."

Another celebrated milliner also excited the surprise and anger of his
Majesty one day by observations which no one in France except this man
would have had the audacity to make.  The Emperor, who was accustomed, as
I have said, to examine at the end of every month the accounts of his
household, thought the bill of the milliner in question exorbitant, and
ordered me to summon him.  I sent for him; and he came in less than ten
minutes, and was introduced into his Majesty's apartment while he was at
his toilet.  "Monsieur," said the Emperor, his eyes fixed on the account,
"your prices are ridiculous, more ridiculous, if possible, than the
silly, foolish people who think they need your goods.  Reduce this to a
reasonable amount or I will do it myself."  The merchant, who held in his
hand the duplicate of his bill, began to explain article by article the
price of his goods, and concluded the somewhat long narration with a mild
surprise that the sum total was no more.  The Emperor, whom I was
dressing during all this harangue, could hardly restrain his impatience;
and I had already foreseen that this singular scene would end
unpleasantly, when the milliner filled up the measure of his assurance by
taking the unparalleled liberty of remarking to his Majesty that the sum
allowed for her Majesty's toilet was insufficient, and that there were
simple citizens' wives who spent more than that.  I must confess that at
this last impertinence I trembled for the shoulders of this imprudent
person, and watched the Emperor's movements anxiously.  Nevertheless, to
my great astonishment, he contented himself with crumpling in his hand
the bill of the audacious milliner, and, his arms folded on his breast,
made two steps towards him, pronouncing this word only, "Really!"  with
such an accent and such a look that the merchant rushed to the door, and
took to his heels without waiting for a settlement.

The Emperor did not like me to leave the chateau, as he wished always to
have me within call, even when my duties were over and he did not need
me; and I think it was with this idea of detaining me that his Majesty
several times gave me copying to do.  Sometimes, also, the Emperor wished
notes to be taken while he was in bed or in his bath, and said to me,
"Constant, take a pen and write;" but I always refused, and went to
summon M. de Meneval.  I have already stated that the misfortunes of the
Revolution had caused my education to be more imperfect than it should
have been; but even had it been as good as it is defective, I much doubt
whether I would ever have been able to write from the Emperor's
dictation.  oh, how thankful he was!

GEORGE.--I don't know whether it was for a black man.

Mary, get us another pot of marmalade.

MARY.--I don't know, Master George.

GEORGE.--I WILL have another pot of marmalade. If you don't, I'll--I'll
smash everything--I will.

BELLA.--Oh, you naughty, rude boy!

GEORGE.--Hold YOUR tongue! I WILL have it. Mary shall go and get
it.

MRS. P.--Do humor him, Mary; and I'm sure my poor children at
home will be the better for it.

GEORGE.--There's your basket! now put this cake in, and this pat of
butter, and this sugar. Hurray, hurray! Oh, what jolly fun! Tell Adolphus
and Amelia I sent it to them--tell 'em they shall never want for anything
as long as George Kicklebury Milliken, Esq., can give it 'em. Did
Adolphus like my gray coat that I didn't want?

MISS P.--You did not give him your new gray coat?

GEORGE.--Don't you speak to me; I'm going to school--I'm not going
to have no more governesses soon.

MRS. P.--Oh, my dear Master George, what a nice coat it is, and how
well my poor boy looked in it!

MISS P.--Don't, mamma! I pray and entreat you not to take the things!

Enter JOHN from dining-room with a tray.

JOHN.--Some cream, some jelly, a little champagne, Miss Prior; I thought
you might like some.

GEORGE.--Oh, jolly! give us hold of the jelly! give us a glass of
champagne.

JOHN.--I will not give you any.

GEORGE.--I'll smash every glass in the room if you don't; I'll cut my
fingers; I'll poison myself--there! I'll eat all this sealing-wax if
you don't, and it's rank poison, you know it is.

MRS. P.--My dear Master George! [Exit JOHN.]
GEORGE.--Ha, ha! I knew you'd give it me; another boy taught me
that.

BELLA.--And a very naughty, rude boy.

GEORGE.--He, he, he! hold your tongue Miss! And said he always got wine
so; and so I used to do it to my poor mamma, Mrs. Prior. Usedn't
to like mamma much.

BELLA.--Oh, you wicked boy!

GEORGY.--She usedn't to see us much. She used to say I tried her
nerves:
what's nerves, Mrs. Prior? Give us some more champagne! Will have it. Ha,
ha, ha! ain't it jolly? Now I'll go out and have a run in the garden.
[Runs into garden].

MRS. P.--And you, my dear?
BELLA.--I shall go and resume the perusal of the "Pilgrim's Progress,"
which my grandpapa, Mr. Bonnington, sent me. [Exit ARABELLA.]
MISS P.--How those children are spoilt! Goodness; what can I do?
If I correct one, he flies to grandmamma Kicklebury; if I speak to
another, she appeals to grandmamma Bonnington. When I was alone
with them, I had them in something like order. Now, between the one
grandmother and the other, the children are going to ruin, and so
would the house too, but that Howell--that odd, rude, but honest
and intelligent creature, I must say--keeps it up. It is wonderful
how a person in his rank of life should have instructed himself so.
He really knows--I really think he knows more than I do myself.
MRS. P.--Julia dear!

MISS P.--What is it, mamma?
MRS. P.--Your little sister wants some underclothing sadly, Julia
dear, and poor Adolphus's shoes are quite worn out.
MISS P.--I thought so; I have given you all I could, mamma.
MRS. P.--Yes, my love! you are a good love, and generous, heaven
knows, to your poor old mother who has seen better days. If we had
not wanted, would I have ever allowed you to be a governess--a poor
degraded governess? If that brute O'Reilly who lived on our second
floor had not behaved so shamefully wicked to you, and married Miss
Flack, the singer, might you not have been Editress of the Champion
of Liberty at this very moment, and had your Opera box every night?
[She drinks champagne while talking, and excites herself.]
MISS P.--Don't take that, mamma.
MRS. P.--Don't take it? why, it costs nothing; Milliken can afford
it.
Do you suppose I get champagne every day? I might have had it as a
girl when I first married your father, and we kep' our gig and
horse, and lived at Clapham, and had the best of everything. But
the coal-trade is not what it was, Julia. We met with misfortunes,
Julia, and we went into poverty: and your poor father went into the
Bench for twenty-three months--two year all but a month he did--and
my poor girl was obliged to dance at the "Coburg Theatre"--yes you
were, at ten shillings a week, in the Oriental ballet of "The Bulbul
and the Rose:" you were, my poor darling child.
MISS P.--Hush, hush, mamma!
MRS. P.--And we kep' a lodging-house in Bury Street, St. James's,
which your father's brother furnished for us, who was an extensive
oil-merchant.In the promenades at the
theater, in every assemblage whatever, my cousin watched with anxious
solicitude over his purse, watch, and handkerchief; and this habitual
prudence did not abandon him even at the court theater, for just as we
were leaving our box, to mingle with the brilliant crowd which came out
of the pit and descended from the boxes, he said to me with the utmost
coolness, covering with his hand his chain and the seals of his watch,
"After all, it is well to take precautions; one does not know every one
here."

At the time of his marriage the Emperor was more than ever overwhelmed
with petitions, and granted, as I shall relate farther on, a large number
of pardons and petitions.

All petitions sent to the Emperor were handed by him to the aide-de-camp
on duty, who carried them to his Majesty's cabinet, and received orders
to make a report on them the next day; and not even as many as ten times
did I find any petitions in his Majesty's pockets, though I always
examined them carefully, and even these rare instances were owing to the
fact that the Emperor had no aide-de-camp near him when they were
presented.  It is then untrue, as has been so often said and written,
that the Emperor placed in a private pocket, which was called the good
pocket, the petitions he wished to grant, without even examining them.
All petitions which deserved it received an answer, and I remember that I
personally presented a large number to his Majesty; he did not put these
in his pocket, and in almost every instance I had the happiness of seeing
them granted.  I must, however, make an exception of some which I
presented for the Cerf-Berr brothers, who claimed payment for supplies
furnished the armies of the republic; for to them the Emperor was always
inexorable.  I was told that this was because Messieurs Cerf-Berr had
refused General Bonaparte a certain sum which he needed during the
campaign of Italy.

These gentlemen interested me deeply in their cause; and I several times
presented their petition to his Majesty, and in spite of the care I took
to place it in his Majesty's hands only when be was in good humor,
I received no reply.  I nevertheless continued to present the petition,
though I perceived that when the Emperor caught a glimpse of it he always
became angry; and at length one morning, just as his toilet was
completed, I handed him as usual his gloves, handkerchief, and snuff-box,
and attached to it again this unfortunate paper.  His Majesty passed on
into his cabinet, and I remained in the room attending to my duties, and
while busied with these saw the Emperor re-enter, a paper in his hand.
He said to me, "Come, Constant, read this; you will see that you are
mistaken, and the government owes nothing to the Cerf-Berr brothers; so
say nothing more to me about it; they are regular Arabs."  I threw my
eyes on the paper, and read a few words obediently; and though I
understood almost nothing of it, from that moment I was certain that the
claim of these gentlemen would never be paid.  I was grieved at this, and
knowing their disappointment, made them an offer of services which they
refused.  The Cerf-Berr brothers, notwithstanding my want of success,
were convinced of the zeal I had manifested in their service, and thanked
me warmly.  Each time I addressed a petition to the Emperor, I saw M. de
Meneval, whom I begged to take charge of it.  He was very obliging, and
had the kindness to inform me whether my demands could hope for success;
and he told me that as for the Cerf-Berr brothers, he did not think the
Emperor would ever compensate them.

In fact, this family, at one time wealthy, but who had lost an immense
patrimony in advances made to the Directory, never received any
liquidation of these claims, which were confided to a man of great
honesty, but too much disposed to justify the name given him.

Madame Theodore Cerf-Berr on my invitation had presented herself several
times with her children at Rambouillet and Saint-Cloud, to beseech the
Emperor to do her justice.  This respectable mother of a family whom
nothing could dismay, again presented herself with the eldest of her
daughters at Compiegne.  She awaited the Emperor in the forest, and
throwing herself in the midst of the horses, succeeded in handing him her
petition; but this time what was the result?  Madame and Mademoiselle
Cerf-Berr had hardly re-entered the hotel where they were staying, when
an officer of the secret police came and requested them to accompany him.
He made them enter a mean cart filled with straw, and conducted them
under the escort of two gens d'armes to the prefecture of police at
Paris, where they were forced to sign a contract never to present
themselves again before the Emperor, and on this condition were restored
to liberty.

About this time an occasion arose in which I was more successful.
General Lemarrois, one of the oldest of his Majesty's aides-de-camp, a
soldier of well-known courage, who won all hearts by his excellent
qualities, was for some time out of favor with the Emperor, and several
times endeavored to obtain an audience with him; but whether it was that
the request was not made known to his Majesty, or he did not wish to
reply, M. Lemarrois received no answer.  In order to settle the matter he
conceived the idea of addressing himself to me, entreating me to present
his petition at an opportune moment.  I did this, and had the happiness
to succeed; and in consequence M. Lemarrois obtained an audience with
such gratifying results that a short time after he obtained the
governorship of Magdeburg.

The Emperor was absent-minded, and often forgot where he had put the
petitions which were handed to him, and thus they were sometimes left in
his coats, and when I found them there I carried them to his Majesty's
cabinet and handed them to M. de Meneval or M. Fain; and often, too,
the, papers for which he was hunting were found in the apartments of the
Empress.  Sometimes the Emperor gave me papers to put away, and those I
placed in a box of which I alone had the key.  One day there was a great
commotion in the private apartments over a paper which could not be
found.  These were the circumstances:

Near the Emperor's cabinet was a small room in which the secretaries
stayed, furnished with a desk, on which notes or petitions were--often
placed.  This room was usually occupied by the cabinet usher, and the
Emperor was accustomed to enter it if he wished to hold a private
conversation without being overheard by the secretaries.  When the
Emperor entered this room the usher withdrew and remained outside the
door; he was responsible for everything in this room, which was never
opened except by express orders from his Majesty.

Marshal Bessieres had several days before presented to the Emperor a
request for promotion from a colonel of the army which he had warmly
supported.  One morning the marshal entered the little room of which I
have just spoken, and finding his petition already signed lying on the
desk, he carried it off, without being noticed by my wife's uncle who was
on duty.  A few hours after, the Emperor wished to examine this petition
again, and was very sure he had left it in this small room; but it was
not there, and it was thought that the usher must have allowed some one
to enter without his Majesty's orders.  Search was made everywhere in
this room and in the Emperor's cabinet, and even in the apartments of the
Empress, and at last it was necessary to announce to his Majesty that the
search had been in vain; whereupon the Emperor gave way to one of those
bursts of anger which were so terrible though fortunately so rare, which
terrified the whole chateau, and the poor usher received orders never to
appear in his sight again.  At last Marshal Bessieres, having been told
of this terrible commotion, came to accuse himself.  The Emperor was
appeased, the usher restored to favor, and everything forgotten; though
each one was more careful than ever that nothing should be disturbed, and
that the Emperor should find at his finger's end whatever papers he
needed.

The Emperor would not allow any one to be introduced without his
permission, either into the Empress's apartments or his own; and this was
the one fault for which the people of the household could not expect
pardon.  Once, I do not exactly remember when, the wife of one of the
Swiss Guard allowed one of her lovers to enter the apartments of the
Empress; and this unfortunate woman, without the knowledge of her
imprudent mistress, took in soft wax an impression of the key of the
jewel-box which I have already mentioned as having belonged to Queen
Marie Antoinette, and, by means of a false key made from this impression,
succeeded in stealing several articles of jewelry.  The police soon
discovered the author of the robbery who was punished as he deserved,
though another person was also punished who did not deserve it, for the
poor husband lost his place.


CHAPTER XXV


After his divorce from the Empress Josephine, the Emperor appeared much
preoccupied; and as it was known that he thought of marrying again, all
persons at the chateau and in his Majesty's service were greatly
concerned about this marriage, though all our conjectures concerning the
princess destined to share the Imperial crown proved to be wrong.  Some
spoke of a Russian princess, while others said the Emperor would marry
none but a French woman; but no one thought of an Austrian archduchess.
When the marriage had been decided, nothing was spoken of at the court
but the youth, grace, and native goodness of the new Empress.  The
Emperor was very gay, and paid more attention to his toilet, giving me
orders to renew his wardrobe, and to order better fitting coats, made in
a more modern style.  The Emperor also sat for his portrait, which the
Prince de Neuchatel carried to Marie Louise; and the Emperor received at
the same time that of his young wife, with which he appeared delighted.

The Emperor, in order to win Marie Louise's affection, did more
undignified things than he had ever done for any woman.  For instance,
one day when he was alone with Queen Hortense and the Princess Stephanie,
the latter mischievously asked him if he knew how to waltz; and his
Majesty replied that he had never been able to go beyond the first
lesson, because after two or three turns he became so dizzy that he was
compelled to stop.  "When I was at l'ecole militaire," added the Emperor,
"I tried again and again to overcome dizziness which waltzing produced,
but I could not succeed.  Our dancing-master having advised us, in
learning to waltz, to take a chair in our arms instead of a lady, I never
failed to fall with the chair, which I pressed so lovingly that it broke;
and thus the chairs in my room, and that of two or three of my
companions, were destroyed, one after the other."  This tale told in the
most animated and amusing manner by his Majesty excited bursts of
laughter from the two princesses.

When this hilarity had somewhat subsided, Princess Stephanie returned to
the charge, saying, "It really is a pity that your Majesty does not know
how to waltz, for the Germans are wild over waltzing, and the Empress
will naturally share the taste of her compatriots; she can have no
partner but the Emperor, and thus she will be deprived of a great
pleasure through your Majesty's fault."--"You are right!" replied the
Emperor; "well, give me a lesson, and you will have a specimen of my
skill."  Whereupon he rose, took a few turns with Princess Stephanie,
humming the air of the Queen of Prussia; but he could not take more than
two or three turns, and even this he did so awkwardly that it increased
the amusement of these ladies.  Then the Princess of Baden stopped,
saying, "Sire, that is quite enough to convince me that you will never be
anything but a poor pupil.  You were made to give lessons, not to take
them."

Early in March the Prince de Neuchatel set out for Vienna commissioned to
officially request the hand of the Empress in marriage.  The Archduke
Charles, as proxy of the Emperor, married the Archduchess Marie Louise,
and she set out at once for France, the little town of Brannan, on the
frontier between Austria and Bavaria, having been designated as the place
at which her Majesty was to pass into the care of a French suite.  The
road from Strasburg was soon filled with carriages conveying to Brannan.
the household of the new Empress.  Most of these ladies had passed from
the household of the Empress Josephine into that of Marie Louise.

The Emperor wished to see for himself if the trousseau and wedding
presents intended for his new wife were worthy of him and of her,
consequently all the clothing and linen were brought to the Tuileries,
spread out before him, and packed under his own eyes.  The good taste and
elegance of each article were equaled only by the richness of the
materials.  The furnishers and modistes of Paris had worked according to
models sent from Vienna; and when these models were presented to the
Emperor he took one of the shoes, which were remarkably small, and with
it gave me a blow on the cheek in the form of a caress.  "See, Constant,"
said his Majesty, "that is a shoe of good augury.  Have you ever seen a
foot like that?  This is made to be held in the hand."

Her Majesty the Queen of Naples had been sent to Brannan, by the Emperor
to receive the Empress.  Queen Caroline, of whom the Emperor once said
that she was a man among her sisters, as Prince Joseph was a woman among
his brothers, mistook, it is said, the timidity of Marie Louise for
weakness, and thought that she would only have to speak and her young
sister-in-law would hasten to obey.  On her arrival at Brannan the formal
transfer was solemnly made; and the Empress bade farewell to all her
Austrian household, retaining in her service only her first lady of
honor, Madame de Lajanski, who had reared her and never been absent from
her.  Etiquette required that the household of the Empress should be
entirely French, and the orders of the Emperor were very precise in this
regard; but I do not know whether it is true, as has been stated, that
the Empress had demanded and obtained from the Emperor permission to
retain for a year this lady of honor.  However that may be, the Queen of
Naples thought it to her interest to remove a person whose influence over
the mind of the Empress she so much feared; and as the ladies of the
household of her Imperial Majesty were themselves eager to be rid of the
rivalry of Madame de Lajanski, and endeavored to excite still more the
jealousy of her Imperial highness, a positive order was demanded from the
Emperor, and Madame de Lajanski was sent back from Munich to Vienna.
The Empress obeyed without complaint, but knowing who had instigated the
blow, cherished a profound resentment against her Majesty the Queen of
Naples.  The Empress traveled only by short stages, and was welcomed by
fetes in each town through which she passed.  Each day the Emperor sent
her a letter from his own hand, and she replied regularly.  The first
letters of the Empress were very short, and probably cold, for the
Emperor said nothing about them; but afterwards they grew longer and
gradually more affectionate, and the Emperor read them in transports of
delight, awaiting the arrival of these letters with the impatience of a
lover twenty years of age, and always saying the couriers traveled
slowly, although they broke down their horses.

The Emperor returned from the chase one day holding in his hands two
pheasants which he had himself killed, and followed by footmen bearing in
their hands the rarest flowers from the conservatory of Saint-Cloud.  He
wrote a note, and immediately said to his first page, "In ten minutes be
ready to enter your carriage.  You will find there this package which you
will give with your own hand to her Majesty the Empress, with the
accompanying letter.  Above all do not spare the horses; go as fast as
possible, and fear nothing.  The Duke of Vicenza shall say nothing to
you."  The young man asked nothing better than to obey his Majesty; and
strong in this authority, which gave him perfect liberty, he did not
grudge drink money to the postilions, and in twenty-four hours had
reached Strasburg and delivered his message.

I do not know whether he received a reprimand from the grand equerry on
his return; but if there was any cause for this, the latter would not
have failed to bestow it, in spite of the Emperor's assurance to the
first page.  The Duke of Vicenza had organized and kept in admirable
order the service of the stables, where nothing was done except by his
will, which was most absolute; and it was only with the greatest
difficulty that the Emperor himself could change an order which the grand
equerry had given.  For instance, his Majesty was one day en route to
Fontainebleau, and being very anxious to arrive quickly, gave orders to
the outrider who regulated the gait of the horses, to go faster.  This
order he transmitted to the Duke of Vicenza whose carriage preceded that
of the Emperor; and finding that the grand equerry paid no attention to
this order, the Emperor began to swear, and cried to the outrider through
the door, "Let my carriage pass in front, since those in front will not
go on."  The outriders and postilions were about to execute this maneuver
when the grand equerry also put his head out of the door and exclaimed,
"Keep to a trot, the first man who gallops I will dismiss on arriving."
It was well known that he would keep his word, so no one dared to pass,
and his carriage continued to regulate the pace of the others.  
Antonio Abbate, now in the Municipio.
It is interesting to note, as its position in the Gallery allows us to
do, how completely Signorelli has now detached himself from the influence
of his first master--outwardly at least.

No greater contrast could well be, than the unrestful dramatic realism
of the "Crucifixion" on this Standard, and the inspired serenity of the
"Resurrection" of Pier dei Franceschi close by; than the coarsely-conceived
figure of the crucified Christ, with its heavy features and uncouth
limbs, and the spiritual beauty of the risen Saviour.

This "Crucifixion" is the least successful of all Signorelli's renderings
of this subject (with the exception, perhaps, of the Morra fresco), both
from its technical defects of extreme hardness and heavy colour, as
well as from the lack of any real feeling in the painter for his subject.
The unfortunate introduction of the patron saint, posing as Joseph of
Arimathoea, disturbs the harmony of the mood, while his exaggerated
gesture contrasts disagreeably with the apathetic coldness of the
other figures, over-dramatic as their action is. The Christ is treated
deliberately as a study of muscle, and is among the most ignominious of
his types, and the fantastic landscape, with its shadowy rocks and
solid clouds, is badly composed and without existence.

Although there is no trace of the influence of Piero remaining, yet there
is much of Antonio Pollaiuolo, especially in the muscular figure and
bent legs of the Christ.

[Illustration: [_Municipio, Borgo San Sepolcro_
THE CRUCIFIXION]
The two large Saints on the reverse of the Standard are, on the other hand,
imposing and noble figures, splendidly painted in Signorelli's grandest
and most sweeping manner. S. Antonio, in the black habit of the order for
which the banner was executed, stands reading in a book, and by
his side is S. Eligio, the smith-saint, in red mantle and dark-green robe,
holding in one hand the farrier's tool, and in the other the cut-off
horse's hoof of the legend. Below kneel small figures of four brothers
of the Confraternity.

We have now come to the end of the series of works, executed, as
nearly as can be judged, between 1490 and 1499, and with the latter
date have arrived at the time of the painting of the Orvieto frescoes,
which were to be the crowning point in the life's work of the
master.

FOOTNOTES:

[53] "Purg." ii. 37 and 35.

[54] When last heard of by the author it was for sale in England.

[55] The contract, dated June 1494, is transcribed in Pungileoni's "Elogio
Stor. di Giov. Santi.," p. 77.

[56] Vasari, iii. 689.

[57] The MS. is in the possession of Conte Scipione Bicchi-Borghese,
Siena

.

[58] Vasari, iii. 688.

[59] "Die Galerie zu Berlin," p. 46.

CHAPTER V
ORVIETO
There seems to be a moment in the life of every great man in which
he touches the height of his possibilities, and reaches the limits
of his powers of expression. To Signorelli it came late, at an age
when most men begin to feel at least their physical powers on the
wane. The two last frescoes of the Monte Oliveto series indicate
that an immense force lay in reserve, waiting an opportunity for
some wider and freer field of action, than had hitherto presented
itself. That opportunity now came, when, at the age of fifty-nine,
he was called upon to undertake the vast work of these Orvieto
frescoes. With the exception of the Sistine Chapel, no such task
has been achieved at so sustained a pitch of imaginative power and
technical excellence. Whether the subject stirred his dramatic
spirit, or whether the great spaces to be filled gave an expanded
sense of liberty to his genius, or whether his powers, intellectual
and physical, really were at the zenith of their strength; whatever
was the cause, he succeeded in executing a work which ranks among
the greatest monuments of the Renaissance, perhaps should even rank
as the very greatest.After making his toilet, the Emperor
returned to the Empress, and towards noon had breakfast sent up for her
and him, and served near the bed by her Majesty's women.  Throughout the
day he was in a state of charming gayety, and contrary to his usual
custom, having made a second toilet for dinner, wore the coat made by the
tailor of the King of Naples; but next day he would not allow it to be
put on again, saying it was much too uncomfortable.

The Emperor, as may be seen from the preceding details, loved his new
wife most tenderly.  He paid her constant attentions, and his whole
conduct was that of a lover deeply enamoured.  Nevertheless, it is not
true, as some one has said, that he remained three months almost without
working, to the great astonishment of his ministers; for work was not
only a duty with the Emperor, it was both a necessity and an enjoyment,
from which no other pleasure, however great, could distract him; and on
this occasion, as on every other, he knew perfectly well how to combine
the duties he owed to his empire and his army with those due to his
charming wife.

The Empress Marie Louise was only nineteen years old at the period of her
marriage.  Her hair was blond, her eyes blue and expressive, her carriage
noble, and her figure striking, while her hand and foot might have served
as models; in fact, her whole person breathed youth, health, and
freshness.  She was diffident, and maintained a haughty reserve towards
the court; but she was said to be affectionate and friendly in private
life, and one fact I can assert positively is that she was very
affectionate toward the Emperor, and submissive to his will.  In their
first interview the Emperor asked her what recommendations were made to
her on her departure from Vienna.  "To be entirely devoted to you, and to
obey you in all things," which instructions she seemed to find no
difficulty in obeying.

All Signorelli's energies have again gone into the figures of the executioners,
but, fine as they are, they are not treated with the same breadth as in
the earlier picture, albeit the painting is free almost to roughness.
The background, instead of the carved wall, now opens out of the court
into a spacious landscape.

In the "Crucifixion," the group at the foot of the Cross is arranged much
like those of the San Sepolcro, Urbino, and Cortona pictures, but it is
half lost in the confusion of a crowd of mounted soldiers. The impressive
silence and solemnity of these earlier "Pietàs" is changed here to a scene
of noisy turmoil, and the painter's interest is obviously centred on the
movement of this hustling crowd.All that art can furnish to supplement
attractions was practiced by her, but so skillfully that the existence of
this deception could only be suspected at most.  On the contrary, it
never occurred to the mind of the second that she could gain anything by
innocent artifices.  The one was always tempted to infringe upon the
truth, and her first emotion was a negative one.  The other was ignorant
of dissimulation, and every deception was foreign to her.  The first
never asked for anything, but she owed everywhere.  The second did not
hesitate to ask if she needed anything, which was very rarely, and never
purchased anything without feeling herself obliged to pay for it
immediately.  To sum it all up, both were good, gentle wives, and much
attached to their husband."  Such, or very nearly these, were the terms
in which the Emperor spoke of his Empresses.  It can be seen that he drew
the comparison in favor of the second; and with this idea he gave her
credit for qualities which she did not possess, or at least exaggerated
greatly those really belonging to her.

