Nothing now remained upon the rug except Black Donald seated in the
armchair!

Capitola paused; her blood seemed freezing in her veins; her heart
beat thickly; her throat was choked; her head full nearly to
bursting, and her eyes were veiled by a blinding film.

"Come--come--my duck--make haste; it is late; haven't you done
setting the room in order yet?" said Black Donald, impatiently.

"In one moment," said Capitola, coming behind his chair and leaning
upon the back of it.

"Donald," she said, with dreadful calmness, "I will not now call you
Black Donald! I will call you as your poor mother did, when your
young soul was as white as your skin, before she ever dreamed her
boy would grow black with crime! I will call you simply Donald, and
entreat you to hear me for a few minutes."

"Talk on, then, but talk fast, and leave my mother alone! Let the
dead rest!" exclaimed the outlaw, with a violent convulsion of his
bearded chin and lip that did not escape the notice of Capitola, who
hoped some good of this betrayal of feeling.

"Donald," she said, "men call you a man of blood; they say that your
hand is red and your soul black with crime!"

"They may say what they like--I care not!" laughed the outlaw.

"But I do not believe all this of you! I believe that there is good
in all, and much good in you; that there is hope for all, and strong
hope for you!"

"Bosh! Stop talking poetry! 'Tain't in my line, nor yours either!"
laughed Black Donald.

"But truth is in all our lines. Donald, I repeat it, men call you a
man of blood! They say that your hands are red and your soul black
with sin. Black Donald, they call you! But, Donald, you have never
yet stained your soul with a crime as black as that which you think
of perpetrating to-night!"

"It must be one o'clock, and I'm tired," replied the outlaw, with a
yawn.

"All your former acts," continued Capitola, in the same voice of
awful calmness, "have been those of a bold, bad man. This act would
be that of a base one!"

"Take care, girl--no bad names! You are in my power--at my mercy!"

"I know my position, but I must continue. Hitherto you have robbed
mail coaches and broken into rich men's houses. In doing thus you
have always boldly risked your life, often at such fearful odds that
men have trembled at their firesides to hear of it. And even women,
while deploring your crimes, have admired your courage."

"I thank 'em kindly for it! Women always like men with a spice of
the devil in them!" laughed the outlaw.

"No, they do not!" said Capitola, gravely. "They like men of
strength, courage and spirit--but those qualities do not come from
the Evil One, but from the Lord, who is the giver of all good. Your
Creator, Donald, gave you the strength, courage and spirit that all
men and women so much admire; but He did not give you these great
powers that you might use them in the service of his enemy, the
devil!"

"I declare there is really something in that! I never thought of
that before."

"Nor ever thought, perhaps, that however misguided you may have
been, there is really something great and good in yourself that
might yet be used for the good of man and the glory of God!" said
Capitola, solemnly.

"Ha, ha, ha! Oh, you flatterer! Come, have you done? I tell you it
is after one o'clock, and I am tired to death!"

"Donald, in all your former acts of lawlessness your antagonists
were strong men; and as you boldly risked your life in your
depredations, your acts, though bad, were not base! But now your
antagonist is a feeble girl, who has been unfortunate from her very
birth; to destroy her would be an act of baseness to which you never
yet descended."

"Bosh! Who talks of destruction? I am tired of all this nonsense! I
mean to carry you off and there's an end of it!" said the outlaw,
doggedly, rising from his seat.

"Stop!" said Capitola, turning ashen pale. "Stop--sit down and hear
me for just five minutes--I will not tax your patience longer."

The robber, with a loud laugh, sank again into his chair, saying:

"Very well, talk on for just five minutes, and not a single second
longer; but if you think in that time to persuade me to leave this
room to-night without you, you are widely out of your reckoning, my
duck, that's all."

"Donald, do not sink your soul to perdition by a crime that heaven
cannot pardon! Listen to me! I have jewels here worth several
thousand dollars! If you will consent to go I will give them all to
you and let you quietly out of the front door and never say one word
to mortal of what has passed here to-night."

"Ha, ha, ha! Why, my dear, how green you must think me! What hinders
me from possessing myself of your jewels, as well as of yourself!"
said Black Donald, impatiently rising.

"Sit still! The five minutes' grace are not half out yet," said
Capitola, in a breathless voice.

"So they are not! I will keep my promise," replied Black Donald,
laughing, and again dropping into his seat.

"Donald, Uncle pays me a quarterly sum for pocket money, which is at
least five times as much as I can spend in this quiet country place.
It has been accumulating for years until now. I have several
thousand dollars all of my own. You shall have it if you will only
go quietly away and leave me in peace!" prayed Capitola.

"My dear, I intend to take that anyhow--take it as your bridal
dower, you know! For I'm going to carry you off and make an honest
wife of you!"

"Donald, give up this heinous purpose!" cried Capitola, in an agony
of supplication, as she leaned over the back of the outlaw's chair.

"Yes, you know I will--ha--ha--ha!" laughed the robber.

"Man, for your own sake give it up!"

"Ha, ha, ha! for my sake!"

"Yes, for yours! Black Donald, have you ever reflected on death?"
asked Capitola, in a low and terrible voice.

"I have risked it often enough; but as to reflecting upon it--it
will be time enough to do that when it comes! I am a powerful man,
in the prime and pride of life," said the athlete, stretching
himself exultingly.

"Yet it might come--death might come with sudden overwhelming power,
and hurl you to destruction! What a terrible thing for this
magnificent frame of yours, this glorious handiwork of the Creator,
to be hurled to swift destruction, and for the soul that animates it
to be cast into hell!"

"Bosh again! That is a subject for the pulpit, not for a pretty
girl's room. If you really think me such a handsome man, why don't
you go with me at once and say no more about it," roared the outlaw
laughing.

"Black Donald--will you leave my room?" cried Capitola, in an agony
of prayer.

"No!" answered the outlaw, mocking her tone.

"Is there no inducement that I can hold out to you to leave me?"

"None!"

Capitola raised herself from her leaning posture, took a step
backward, so that she stood entirely free from the trap-door, then
slipping her foot under the rug, she placed it lightly on the
spring-bolt, which she was careful not to press; the ample fall of
her dress concealed the position of her foot.

Capitola was now paler than a corpse, for hers was the pallor of a
living horror! Her heart beat violently, her head throbbed, her
voice was broken as she said:

"Man, I will give you one more chance! Oh, man, pity yourself as I
pity you, and consent to leave me!"

"Ha, ha, ha! It is quite likely that I will! Isn't it, now? No, my
duck, I haven't watched and planned for this chance for this long
time past to give it up, now that you are in my power! A likely
story indeed! And now the five minutes' grace are quite up!"

"Stop! Don't move yet! Before you stir, say: 'Lord, have mercy on
me!" said Capitola, solemnly.

"Ha, ha, ha! That's a pretty idea! Why should I say that?"

"Say it to please me! Only say it, Black Donald!"

"But why to please you?"

Frequently a note which should be received in the evening is not
obtained until the following morning--proof of this being given
by the post-marks.

[Illustration]

_General Post Office_. Your complaint shall receive consideration.

_G.P._ You are most kind.

Next, a telegram despatched from one part of London to another part,
sometimes takes eight hours, and the reason given is that the
counter-clerk has a discretionary power to retain telegrams until
he has what he considers a sufficient supply for the messenger to
take out for delivery.

This naturally causes much delay and consequent inconvenience.

_G.P.O._ Your complaint shall receive consideration.

_G.P._ You are too good. Next, the carelessness at Branch Offices is
extremely irritating. For instance, it is often the case that the
words of telegrams have been altered and changed during transmission.

It is unnecessary to point out that such mistakes are liable to
create annoyance, not to say disaster.

_G.P.O._ Your complaint shall receive consideration.

_G.P._ Very many thanks. Then, at offices where females are engaged,
rudeness is very common.

Would-be purchasers of postage-stamps are frequently kept waiting
while the clerks chatter to one another about matters entirely
unconnected with the Department.

And this habit is gaining ground in those offices in which male labour
is only employed, especially in the immediate neighbourhood of St.
Martin's-le-Grand itself.

It is useless to call attention to this practice, as a simple denial
from an official implicated is accepted by the authorities as proof
(almost) positive of his or her innocence.

_G.P.O._ Your complaint shall receive consideration.

_G.P._ Again, thanks for your courtesy.

But about these and many other grievances, the same stereotyped
answer has invariably been received.

_G.P.O._ Your complaint shall receive consideration.

_G.P._ Exactly! That is the very answer.

And it is felt that no other outcome will result from agitation.

It seems utterly impossible to make the officials in charge realise
their responsibility to the taxpayers.

_G.P.O._ Your complaint shall receive consideration.

_G.P._ Of course; the same parrot-cry! And it may be for years, and
it be for ever, before reform is introduced.

The probability is, that the present unsatisfactory condition of
affairs may exist at St.

Martin's-le-Grand until the hour of doom.

_G.P.O._ Your complaint shall receive consideration.

* * * * *

REFLECTION BY A GENERAL READER.

     I have been reading
     books wherein 'tis shown (In diction
     autocratic, sour, un-civil), That nothing
     can be absolutely known, Save that the Universe is wholly evil!

                               And even this poor result is only plain To Genius--which, of course,
is quite a rarity.

_I_ should have thought this would have given it pain, And moved it
to both modesty and charity; But what surprises _me_
(--ZOILUS, to mock sure, Will whip me with sham-epigrams would-be
witty,--) Is that Agnostics seem so awfully pure, And Pessimists
so destitute of pity.

* * * * *
ANNALS OF A WATERING-PLACE
THAT HAS "SEEN ITS DAY."

[Illustration]
The weather which, in Mr. DUNSTABLE's varied experience of
five-and-twenty years, he assures me, has never been so bad, having
at length afforded some indications of "breaking" I make the
acquaintance, through Mrs. COBBLER, of Mr.She had not slept long when she was aroused
from a profound state of insensibility by a loud, impatient knocking
at her door.

She started up wildly and gazed around her. For a minute she could
not remember what were the circumstances under which she had laid
down, or what was that vague feeling of horror and alarm that
possessed her. Then the yawning trapdoor, the remnants of the
supper, and Black Donald's coat, hat and boots upon the floor, drove
in upon her reeling brain the memory of the night of terror!

The knocking continued more loudly and impatiently, accompanied by
the voice of Mrs. Condiment, crying:

"Miss Capitola--Miss Capitola--why, what can be the matter with her?
Miss Capitola!"

"Eh? What? Yes!" answered Capitola, pressing her hands to her
feverish forehead, and putting back her dishevelled hair.

"Why, how soundly you sleep, my dear! I've been calling and rapping
here for a quarter of an hour! Good gracious, child what made you
oversleep yourself so? "

"I--did not get to bed till very late," said Capitola, confusedly.

"Well, well, my dear, make haste now, your uncle is none of the
patientest, and he has been waiting breakfast for some time! Come,
open the door and I will help you to dress, so that you may be ready
sooner."

Capitola rose from the side of the bed, where she had been sitting,
and went cautiously around that gaping trap door to her chamber
door, when she missed the key, and suddenly remembered that it had
been in Black Donald's pocket when he fell. A shudder thrilled her
frame at the thought of that horrible fall.

"Well--well--Miss Capitola, why don't you open the door?" cried the
old lady, impatiently.

"Mrs. Condiment, I have lost the key--dropped it down the trap-door.
Please ask uncle to send for some one to take the lock off--and
don't wait breakfast for me."

"Well, I do think that was very careless, my dear; but I'll go at
once," said the old lady, moving away.

She had not been gone more than ten minutes, when Old Hurricane was
heard, coming blustering along the hall and calling:

"What now, you imp of Satan? What mischief have you been at now?
Opening the trap-door, you mischievous monkey! I wish from the
bottom of my soul you had fallen into it, and I should have got rid
of one trial! Losing your key, you careless baggage! I've a great
mind to leave you locked up there forever."

Thus scolding, Old Hurricane reached the spot and began to ply
screw-drivers and chisels until at length the strong lock yielded,
and he opened the door.

There a vision met his eyes that arrested his steps upon the very
threshold; the remains of a bacchanalian supper; a man's coat and
hat and boots upon the floor; in the midst of the room the great,
square, black opening; and beyond it standing upon the hearth, the
form of Capitola, with disordered dress, dishevelled hair and wild
aspect!

"Oh, uncle, see what I have been obliged to do!" she exclaimed,
extending both her arms down toward the opening with a look of
blended horror and inspiration, such as might have sat upon the
countenance of some sacrificial priestess of the olden time.

"What--what--what!" cried the old man, nearly dumb with amazement.

"Black Donald was in my room last night. He stole from his
concealment and locked the door on the inside and withdrew the key,
thus locking me in with himself, and--" She ceased and struck both
hands to her face, shuddering from head to foot.

"Go on, girl!" thundered Old Hurricane, in an agony of anxiety.

"I escaped harmless--oh, I did, sir--but at what a fearful price!"

"Explain! Explain!" cried Old Hurricane, in breathless agitation.

"I drew him to sit upon the chair on the rug, and"--again she
shuddered from head to foot, "and I sprang the trap and precipitated
him to--oh, heaven of heavens!--where? I know not!"

"But you--you were unharmed?"

"Yes--yes!"

"Oh, Cap! Oh, my dear Cap! Thank heaven for that!"

"But, uncle, where--oh, where did he go?" inquired Capitola, almost
wildly.

"Who the demon cares? To perdition. I hope and trust, with all my
heart and soul!" cried Old Hurricane, with emphasis, as he
approached and looked down the opening.

"Uncle, what is below there?" asked Capitola anxiously, pointing
down the abyss.

"An old cellar, as I have told you long ago, and Black Donald, as
you have just told me. Hilloe there! Are you killed, as you deserve
to be, you atrocious villain?" roared Old Hurricane, stooping down
into the opening.

A feeble distant moan answered him.

"Oh, heaven! He is living! He is living! I have not killed him!"
cried Capitola, clasping her hands.

"Why, I do believe you are glad of it!" exclaimed Old Hurricane, in
astonishment.

"Oh, yes, yes, yes! For it was a fearful thought that I had been
compelled to take a sacred life! to send an immortal soul unprepared
to its account!"

"Well! his neck isn't broken, it appears, or he couldn't groan; but
I hope and trust every other bone in his body is! Mrs. Condiment,
mum! [“MALVOLIO. Infirmity{,} that decays the wise{,} doth eve{r}
make the better fool.
CLOWN. God send you, sir, a speedy infirmity{,} for the better
increasing of your folly.”--Shakespeare. TWELFTH NIGHT{, Act I, Scene
V}.]

445.--Weakness is more hostile to virtue than vice.

446.--What makes the grief of shame and jealousy so acute is that
vanity cannot aid us in enduring them.

447.--Propriety is the least of all laws, but the most obeyed.

[Honour has its supreme laws, to which education is bound to
conform....Those things which honour forbids are more rigorously
forbidden when the laws do not concur in the prohibition, and those
it commands are more strongly insisted upon when they
happen not to be commanded by law.--Montesquieu, {THE SPIRIT OF
LAWS, }b. 4, c. ii.]
448.--A well-trained mind has less difficulty in sub- mitting to than
in guiding an ill-trained mind.

449.

--When fortune surprises us by giving us some great office without
having gradually led us to expect it, or without having raised our
hopes, it is well nigh impossible to occupy it well, and to appear
worthy to fill it.

450.

--Our pride is often increased by what we retrench from our other
faults.

[“The loss of sensual pleasures was supplied and com- pensated by
spiritual pride.”--Gibbon. DECLINE AND FALL, chap. xv.]
451.--No fools so wearisome as those who have some wit.

452.

--No one believes that in every respect he is behind the man he
considers the ablest in the world.

453.--In great matters we should not try so much to create
opportunities as to utilise those that offer themselves.

[Yet Lord Bacon says “A wise man will make more opportunities than
he finds.”

--Essays, {(1625), “Of Ceremonies and Respects”}]

454.--There are few occasions when we should make a bad bargain by
giving up the good on condition that no ill was said of us.

455.--However disposed the world may be to judge wrongly, it far
oftener favours false merit than does justice to true.
456.--Sometimes we meet a fool with wit, never one with
discretion.
457.--We should gain more by letting the world see what we are than
by trying to seem what we are not.
458.--Our enemies come nearer the truth in the opinions they form
of us than we do in our opinion of ourselves.

459.While Mr. Ezy was gone on his errand, Major Warfield, Capitola and
Mrs. Condiment remained below stairs.

It was several hours before the messenger returned with the
constables, and with several neighbors whom interest and curiosity
had instigated to join the party.

As soon as they arrived, a long ladder was procured and carried up
into Capitola's chamber, and let down through the trap-door.
Fortunately it was long enough, for when the foot of the ladder
found the floor of the cellar, the head rested securely against the
edge of the opening.

In a moment the two constables began singly to descend, the foremost
one carrying a lighted candle in his hand.

The remaining members of the party, consisting of Major Warfield,
Capitola, Mrs. Condiment, and some half dozen neighbors, remained
gathered around the open trap-door, waiting, watching, and listening
for what might next happen.

Presently one of the constables called out:

"Major Warfield, sir!"

"Well!" replied Old Hurricane.

"He's a-breathing still, sir; but seems badly hurt, and may be a-
dying, seeing as he's unsensible and unspeakable. What shall we do
long of him?"

"Bring him up! let's have a look at the fellow, at any rate!"
exclaimed Old Hurricane, peremptorily.

"Just so, sir! but some of the gem-men up there'll have to come down
on the ladder and give a lift. He's a dead weight now, I tell your
honor!"

Several of the neighbors immediately volunteered for the service,
and two of the strongest descended the ladder to lend their aid.

On attempting to move the injured man he uttered a cry of pain, and
fainted, and then it took the united strength and skill of four
strong men to raise the huge insensible form of the athlete, and get
him up the ladder. No doubt the motion greatly inflamed his inward
wounds, but that could not be helped. They got him up at last, and
laid out upon the floor a ghastly, bleeding, insensible form, around
which every one gathered to gaze. While they were all looking upon
him as upon a slaughtered wild beast, Capitola alone felt
compassion.

"Uncle, he is quite crushed by his fall. Make the men lay him upon
the bed. Never think of me; I shall never occupy this room again;
its associations are too full of horrors. There, uncle, make them at
once lay him upon the bed."

"I think the young lady is right, unless we mean to let the fellow
die," said one of the neighbors.

"Very well! I have particular reasons of my own for wishing that the
man's life should be spared until he could be brought to trial and
induced to give up his accomplices," said Old Hurricane. Then,
turning to his ward, he said:

"Come along, Capitola. Mrs. Condiment will see that your effects are
transferred to another apartment."

"And you, friends," he continued, addressing the men present, "be so
good, so soon as we have gone, to undress that fellow and put him to
bed, and examine his injuries while I send off for a physician; for
I consider it very important his life should be spared sufficiently
long to enable him to give up his accomplices." And so saying, Old
Hurricane drew the arm of Capitola within his own and left the room.

It was noon before the physician arrived. When he had examined the
patient he pronounced him utterly unfit to be removed, as besides
other serious contusions and bruises, his legs were broken and
several of his ribs fractured.

In a word. It was several weeks before the strong constitution of
the outlaw prevailed over his many injuries, and he was pronounced
well enough to be taken before a magistrate and committed to prison
to await his trial. Alas! his life, it was said, was forfeit by a
hundred crimes, and there could be no doubt as to his fate. He
maintained a self-possessed good-humored and laughingly defiant
manner, and when asked to give up his accomplices, he answered
gaily:

That treachery was a legal virtue which outlaws could not be
expected to know anything about.

Capitola was everywhere lauded for her brave part in the capture of
the famous desperado. But Cap was too sincerely sorry for Black
Donald to care for the applause.


CHAPTER XXI.

A FATAL HATRED.


     "Oh, heaven and all its hosts, he shall not die!"

     "By Satan and his fiends, he shall not live!
      This is no transient flash of fugitive passion,
      His death has been my life for years of misery,
      Which, else I had not lived,
      Upon that thought, and not on food, I fed,
      Upon that thought, and not on sleep, I rested,
      I came to do the deed that must be done,
      Nor thou, nor the sheltering angels could prevent me."

                                     --MATURIN.


The United States army, under General Scott, invested the city of
Mexico.

A succession of splendid victories had marked every stage of their
advance, from the seacoast to the capital. Vera Cruz had fallen;
Cerro-Gordo had been stormed and passed: Xalapa taken; the glorious
triumph of Churubusco had been achieved. The names of Scott, Worth,
Wool, Quitman, Pillow and others were crowned with honor. Others
again, whose humble names and unnoticed heroism have never been
recorded, endured as nobly, suffered as patiently, and fought as
bravely. Our own young hero, Herbert Greyson, had covered himself
with honor.

The war with Mexico witnessed, perhaps, the most rapid promotions of
any other in the whole history of military affairs.

The rapid ascent of our young officer was a striking instance of
this. In two years from the time he had entered the service, with a
lieutenant's commission, he held the rank of major, in the--Regiment
of Infantry.

The specific heat of water being about four times that of air, it
readily takes up the heat of compression.

A properly designed spray system must not be confused with the
numerous devices applied to air cylinders, by means of which water
is introduced.
In some cases the water is merely drawn in through the inlet valves.

In others it passes through the center of the piston and rod,
coming in contact with the interior walls of the air cylinder between
the packing rings.

Introducing water into the air cylinder in _any other way, except
in the form of a spray, has but little effect in cooling
the air during compression._ On the contrary, it is a most fallacious
system, because it introduces all the disadvantages of water injection
without its isothermal influence.And very heavy was this trial to a high spirited young man like
Traverse Rocke, and very fortunate was it for him that he had early
been imbued with that most important truth, that "He who ruleth his
own spirit is greater than he who taketh a city."

But, if Colonel Le Noir crossed the gulf of military etiquette to
harass the poor young soldier, Major Greyson did the same thing for
the more honorable purpose of soothing and encouraging him.

And both Herbert and Traverse hoped that the designs of their
Colonel would be still frustrated by the self-command and patience
of the young private.

Alas! they did not know the great power of evil! They did not know
that nothing less than Divine Providence could meet and overcome it.

They fondly believed that the malignity of Le Noir had resulted in
no other practical evil than in preventing the young soldier's well-
merited advancement, and in keeping him in the humble position of a
private in the ranks.

They were not aware that the discharge of Traverse Rocke had long
ago arrived, but that it had been suppressed through the diabolical
cunning of Le Noir. That letters, messages and packets, sent by his
friends to the young soldier, had found their way into his Colonel's
possession and no further.

And so, believing the hatred of that bad man to have been fruitless
of serious, practical evil, Herbert encouraged his friend to be
patient for a short time longer, when they should see the end of the
campaign, if not of the war.

It was now that period of suspense and of false truce between the
glorious 20th of August and the equally glorious 8th of September,
1847--between the two most brilliant actions of the war, the battle
of Churubusco and the storming of Chapultepec.

The General-in-Chief of the United States forces in Mexico was at
his headquarters in the Archiepiscopal palace of Tacubaya, on the
suburbs, or in the full sight of the city of the Montezumas,
awaiting the issue of the conference between the commissioners of
the hostile governments, met to arrange the terms of a treaty of
peace--that every day grew more hopeless.

General Scott, who had had misgivings as to the good faith of the
Mexicans, had now his suspicions confirmed by several breaches on
the part of the enemy of the terms of the armistice.

--The heat of youth is not more opposed to safety than the coldness
of age.

342.--The accent of our native country dwells in the heart
and mind as well as on the tongue.
343.--To be a great man one should know how to profit by every phase
of fortune.

344.And not to lose time, he began on the same night a series of
reconnaisances, the object of which was to ascertain their best
approach to the city of Mexico, which, in the event of the renewal
of the war, he purposed to carry by assault.

It is not my intention to pretend to describe the siege and capture
of the capital, which has been so often and eloquently described by
grave and wise historians, but rather to follow the fortunes of an
humble private in the ranks, and relate the events of a certain
court-martial, as I learned them from the after-dinner talk of a
gallant officer who had officiated on the occasion.

It was during these early days in September, while the illustrious
General-in-Chief was meditating concluding the war by the assault of
the city of Mexico, that Colonel Le Noir also resolved to bring his
own private feud to an end, and ruin his enemy by a coup-de-diable.

He had an efficient tool for his purpose in the Captain of the
company to which Traverse Rocke belonged. This man, Captain Zuten,
was a vulgar upstart thrown into his command by the turbulence of
war, as the scum is cast up to the surface by the boiling of the
cauldron.

LL.B and J. Hain Friswell
Simpson Low, Son, and Marston, 188, Fleet Street.
1871.

{Translators'} Preface.

Some apology must be made for an attempt “to translate the
untranslatable.”

Not- withstanding there are no less than eight English translations
of La Rochefoucauld, hardly any are readable, none are free from
faults, and all fail more or less to convey the author's meaning.
Though so often translated, there is not a complete English edition
of the Maxims and Reflections. All the translations are confined
exclusively to the Maxims, none include the Reflections. This may
be accounted for, from the fact that most of the trans- lations are
taken from the old editions of the Maxims, in which the Reflections
do not appear.
Until M.The aspect of the young private was so pale, haggard and
despairing that his friend immediately stopped and exclaimed:

"Why Traverse, how ill you look! More fitted for the sick list than
the sentry's duties. What the deuce is the matter?"

The young soldier touched his hat to his superior and answered
sadly, "I am ill, ill in body and mind, sir."

"Pooh!--leave off etiquette when we are alone, Traverse, and call me
Herbert, as usual. Heaven knows, I shall be glad when all this is
over and we fall back into our relative civil positions towards each
other. But what is the matter now, Traverse? Some of Le Noir's
villainy again, of course."

"Of course. But I did not mean to complain, Herbert; that were
childish. I mus' endure this slavery, these insults and persecutions
patiently since I have brought them upon myself."

"Take comfort, Traverse. The war is drawing to a close. Either this
armistice will end in a permanent peace, or when hostilities are
renewed our General will carry the city of Mexico by storm, and
dictate the terms of a treaty from the grand square of the capital.
In either event the war will soon be over, the troops disbanded, and
the volunteers free to go about their business, and Doctor Traverse
Rocke at liberty to pursue his legitimate profession," said Herbert,
cheerfully.

