Produced by Jamie Taylor in memory of Helen Keller.


THE SONG OF
THE STONE WALL


BY
HELEN KELLER


1910
Copyright, 1909, 1910.
_Published October, 1910_.


DEDICATION


When I began “The Song of the Stone Wall,” Dr. Edward Everett Hale
was still among us, and it was my intention to dedicate the poem
to him if it should be deemed worthy of publication. I fancied that
he would like it; for he loved the old walls and the traditions that
cling about them.

As I tried to image the men who had built the walls long ago, it
seemed to me that Dr. Hale was the living embodiment of whatever was
heroic in the founders of New England. He was a great American. He
was also a great Puritan. Was not the zeal of his ancestors upon his
lips, and their courage in his heart? Had they not bequeathed to him
their torch-like faith, their patient fervor of toil and their creed
of equality?

But his bright spirit had inherited no trace of their harshness and
gloom. The windows of his soul opened to the sunlight of a joyous
faith. His optimism and genial humor inspired gladness and good
sense in others. Behind are hills gently rising and covered
with a finer verdure than I expected to see in this climate, and
the scene is enlivened by a number of little clear brooks.

Sir Alexander Macdonald having been an Eton scholar, and being
a gentleman of talents, Dr Johnson had been very well pleased with
him in London. But my fellow traveller and I were now full of the
old Highland spirit, and were dissatisfied at hearing of racked rents
and emigration; and finding a chief not surrounded by his clan. Dr
Johnson said, 'Sir, the Highland chiefs should not be allowed to
go farther south than Aberdeen. A strong-minded man, like Sir James
Macdonald, may be improved by an English education; but in general,
they will be tamed into insignificance.'

We found here Mr Janes of Aberdeenshire, a naturalist. Janes said he
had been at Dr Johnson's in London, with Ferguson the astronomer.

JOHNSON. 'It is strange that, in such distant places, I should meet
with any one who knows me.

I should have thought I might hide myself in Sky.'

Friday, 3d September
This day proving wet, we should have passed our time very uncomfortably,
had we not found in the house two chests of books, which we eagerly
ransacked.

After dinner,
when I alone was left at table with the few Highland gentlemen who
were of the company, having talked with very high respect of Sir
James Macdonald, they were all so much affected as to shed tears.

One of them was Mr Donald Macdonald,
who had been lieutenant of grenadiers in
the Highland regiment, raised by Colonel Montgomery,
now Earl of Eglintoune, in the war before last;
one of those regiments which the
late Lord Chatham prided himself in having brought from 'the
mountains of the north': by doing which
he contributed to extinguish in the Highlands
the remains of disaffection
to the present Royal Family.

From this gentleman's conversation, I
first learnt how very popular his Colonel
was among the Highlanders; of which I had such continued
proofs, during the whole course of
my tour, that on my return I could not help telling the noble Earl
himself, that I did not before know how great a man he was.

On I trudge through pine woods fragrant and cool
And emerge amid clustered pools and by rolling acres of rye.
The wall is builded of field-stones great and small,
Tumbled about by frost and storm,
Shaped and polished by ice and rain and sun;
Some flattened, grooved, and chiseled
By the inscrutable sculpture of the weather;
Some with clefts and rough edges harsh to the touch.
Gracious Time has glorified the wall
And covered the historian stones with a mantle of green.
Sunbeams flit and waver in the rifts,
Vanish and reappear, linger and sleep,
Conquer with radiance the obdurate angles,
Filter between the naked rents and wind-bleached jags.

I understand the triumph and the truth
Wrought into these walls of rugged stone.
They are a miracle of patient hands,
They are a victory of suffering, a paean of pain;
All pangs of death, all cries of birth,
Are in the mute, moss-covered stones;
They are eloquent to my hands.
O beautiful, blind stones, inarticulate and dumb!
In the deep gloom of their hearts there is a gleam
Of the primeval sun which looked upon them
When they were begotten.
So in the heart of man shines forever
A beam from the everlasting sun of God.
Rude and unresponsive are the stones;
Yet in them divine things lie concealed;
I hear their imprisoned chant:--

"We are fragments of the universe,
Chips of the rock whereon God laid the foundation of the world:
Out of immemorial chaos He wrought us.
Out of the sun, out of the tempest, out of the travail of the earth
 we grew.
During the whole of our tour he shewed uncommon
spirit, could not bear to be treated like an old or infirm
man, and was very unwilling to
accept of any assistance, insomuch that, at
our landing at Icolmkill, when Sir Allan
McLean and I submitted to be carried on men's
shoulders from the boat to the shore, as it could
not be brought quite close to
land, he sprang into the sea, and waded vigorously out.

On our arrival at the Saracen's
Head Inn, at Glasgow, I was made happy by good
accounts from home; and Dr Johnson, who had not
received a single letter since we left Aberdeen,
found here a great many, the perusal of which entertained
him much. He enjoyed in imagination
the comforts which we could now command, and seemed to be in high
glee.When Chaos shall again return,
And endless Night shall spread her wings upon a rained world,
We alone shall stand up from the shattered earth,
Indestructible, invincible witnesses of God’s eternal purpose.”

In reflective mood by the wall I wander;
The hoary stones have set my heart astir;
My thoughts take shape and move beside me in the guise
Of the stern men who built the wall in early olden days.
One by one the melancholy phantoms go stepping from me,
And I follow them in and out among the stones.
I think of the days long gone,
Flown like birds beyond the ramparts of the world.
The patient, sturdy men who piled the stones
Have vanished, like the days, beyond the bounds
Of earth and mortal things.
From their humble, steadfast lives has sprung the greatness of my
 nation.
I am bone of their bone, breath of their breath,
Their courage is in my soul.
The wall is an Iliad of granite: it chants to me
Of pilgrims of the perilous deep,
Of fearless journeyings and old forgotten things.
The blood of grim ancestors warms the fingers
That trace the letters of their story;
My pulses beat in unison with pulses that are stilled;
The fire of their zeal inspires me
In my struggle with darkness and pain.
These embossed books, unobliterated by the tears and laughter
 of Time,
Are signed with the vital hands of undaunted men.
I love these monoliths, so crudely imprinted
With their stalwart, cleanly, frugal lives.

From my seat among the stones I stretch my hand and touch
My friend the elm, urnlike, lithesome, tall.
Far above the reach of my exploring fingers
Birds are singing and winging joyously
Through leafy billows of green.
The elm-tree’s song is wondrous sweet;
The words are the ancientest language of trees--
They tell of how earth and air and light
Are wrought anew to beauty and to fruitfulness.
Perhaps a great familiarity with it, which arises
from plenty, makes us more easily part with it.'

After what Dr Johnson had said of St Andrews,
which he had long wished to see, as our oldest university,
and the seat of our Primate in the days of episcopacy, I can
say little. Since the
publication of Dr Johnson's
book, I find that he has been censured for not
seeing here the ancient chapel of St Rule, a
curious piece of sacred architecture.

But this was neither his fault nor mine.
We were both of us abundantly desirous
of surveying such sort of antiquities: but neither of
us knew of this. I am afraid the censure must
fall on those who did not tell us of it.
In every place, where there is any thing worthy
of observation, there should be a short printed
directory for strangers, such as we find in all the
towns of Italy, and in some of the towns in
England. I was told that there is a
manuscript account of St Andrews, by Martin, secretary to
Archbishop Sharp; and that one Douglas has
published a small account of it. I inquired
at a bookseller's, but could not get it. Dr
Johnson's veneration for the Hierarchy is well
known. There is no wonder then, that he was
affected with a strong indignation, while he beheld the ruins
of religious magnificence. I happened to ask where John Knox
was buried. Dr Johnson burst out, 'I hope in the high-way. I have
been looking at his reformations.'
It was a very fine day. Dr Johnson seemed quite wrapt up in the
contemplation of the scenes which were now presented to him.Across the meadow, by the ancient pines,
Where I, the child of life that lived that spring,
Drink in the fragrances of the young year,
The field-wall meets one grimly squared and straight.
Beyond it rise the old tombs, gray and restful,
And the upright slates record the generations.
Stiffly aslant before the northern blasts,
Like the steadfast, angular beliefs
Of those whom they commemorate, the headstones stand,
Cemented deep with moss and invisible roots.
The rude inscriptions charged with faith and love,
Graceless as Death himself, yet sweet as Death,
Are half erased by the impartial storms.
As children lisping words which move to laughter
Are themselves poems of unconscious melody,
So the old gravestones with their crabbed muse
Are beautiful for their halting words of faith,
Their groping love that had no gift of song.
But all the broken tragedy of life
And all the yearning mystery of death
Are celebrated in sweet epitaphs of vines and violets.
Close by the wall a peristyle of pines
Sings requiem to all the dead that sleep.

Beyond the village churchyard, still and calm,
Steeped in the sweetness of eternal morn,
The wall runs down in crumbling cadence
Beside the brook which plays
Through the land like a silver harp.
A wind of ancient romance blows across the field,
A sweet disturbance thrills the air;
The silken skirts of Spring go rustling by,
And the earth is astir with joy.
Up the hill, romping and shaking their golden heads,
Come the little children of the wood.
From ecstasy to ecstasy the year mounts upward.
Up from the south come the odor-laden winds,
Angels and ministers of life,
Dropping seeds of fruitfulness
Into the bosoms of flowers.
Elusive, alluring secrets hide in wood and hedge
Like the first thoughts of love
In the breast of a maiden;
The witchery of love is in rock and tree.
Across the pasture, star-sown with daisies,
I see a young girl--the spirit of spring she seems,
Sister of the winds that run through the rippling daisies.
Sweet and clear her voice calls father and brother,
And one whose name her shy lips will not utter.
But a chorus of leaves and grasses speaks her heart
And tells his name: the birches flutter by the wall;
The wild cherry-tree shakes its plumy head
And whispers his name; the maple
Opens its rosy lips and murmurs his name;
The marsh-marigold sends the rumor
Down the winding stream, and the blue flag
Spread the gossip to the lilies in the lake:
All Nature’s eyes and tongues conspire
In the unfolding of the tale
That Adam and Eve beneath the blossoming rose-tree
Told each other in the Garden of Eden.
Once more the wind blows from the walls,
And I behold a fair young mother;
She stands at the lilac-shaded door
With her baby at her breast;
She looks across the twilit fields and smiles
And whispers to her child: “Thy father comes!”

Life triumphed over many-weaponed Death.
Sorrow and toil and the wilderness thwarted their stout invasion;
But with the ship that sailed again went no retreating soul!
Stubborn, unvanquished, clinging to the skirts of Hope,
They kept their narrow foothold on the land,
And the ship sailed home for more.
With yearlong striving they fought their way into the forest;
Their axes echoed where I sit, a score of miles from the sea.
Slowly, slowly the wilderness yielded
To smiling grass-plots and clearings of yellow corn;
And while the logs of their cabins were still moist
With odorous sap, they set upon the hill
The shrine of liberty for man’s mind,
And by it the shrine of liberty for man’s soul,
The school-house and the church.

The apple-tree by the wall sheds its blossom about me--
A shower of petals of light upon darkness.
From Nature’s brimming cup I drink a thousand scents;
At noon the wizard sun stirs the hot soil under the pines.
Mr Lumisden has written an account of the three
battles in 1745-6, at
once accurate and classical. Talking of the different
Highland corps, the gentlemen who were present wished
to have his opinion which were the best soldiers.
He said, he did not like comparisons
among those corps: they were all best.

He told his conductors, he did
not think it advisable to remain long in any one place;
and that he expected a French ship to come for him
to Lochbroom, among the Mackenzies. It then was
proposed to carry him in one of Malcolm's boats
to Lochbroom, though the distance was fifteen leagues coastwise.

But he thought this would be too dangerous, and
desired that at any rate, they might first endeavour
to obtain intelligence. Upon which young Rasay wrote to his friend,
Mr M'Kenzie of Applecross, but received an answer, that there
was no appearance of any French ship.

It was therefore resolved that they should return to Sky, which
 they
did, and landed in Strath, where they reposed in a
     cow-house belonging to Mr Niccolson of Scorbreck.
The sea was very rough, and the boat took in a
good deal of water. The Wanderer asked
if there was danger, as he was not used
to such a vessel. Upon being told
there was not, he sung an Erse song with much
vivacity. He had by this time acquired a good deal
of the Erse language.

Young Rasay was now dispatched to where Donald
Roy was, that they might get all the intelligence they could; and
the Wanderer, with much earnestness, charged Dr Macleod to have a
boat ready, at a certain place about seven miles off, as he said
he intended it should carry him upon a matter of great consequence;
and gave the doctor a case, containing a silver spoon, knife, and
fork, saying, 'keep you that till I see you', which the doctor
understood to be two days from that time.

But all these orders were only
blinds; for he had another plan in his head, but wisely thought
it safest to trust his secrets to no more persons
than was absolutely necessary.
Having then desired Malcolm to walk with him a little way
from the house, he soon opened his mind, saying,
'I deliver myself to you. Conduct me to the
Laird of M'Kinnon's country.' Malcolm objected
that it was very dangerous, as so many parties
of soldiers were in motion. He answered.
'There is nothing now to be done without
danger.' He then said, that Malcolm
must be the master, and he the servant; so he took the
bag, in which his linen was put up, and carried it
on his shoulder; and observing that his
waistcoat, which was of scarlet tartan, with a gold twist button,
was finer than Malcolm's, which was of a plain ordinary tartan, he
put on Malcolm's waistcoat, and gave him his; remarking at the same
time, that it did not look well that the servant should be better
dressed than the master.

Malcolm, though an excellent walker, found himself excelled
by Prince Charles, who told him, he should not
much mind the parties that were looking for
him, were he once but a musquet shot from them;
but that he was somewhat afraid of the
highlanders who were against him. He was well used to
walking in Italy, in pursuit of game;
and he was even now so keen a sportsman, that, having
observed some partridges, he was going
to take a shot; but Malcolm cautioned him against it, observing
that the firing might be heard by the
tenders who were hovering upon the coast.

As they proceeded through the mountains, taking
many a circuit to avoid any houses,
Malcolm, to try his resolution, asked him what they should do,
should they fall in with a party of soldiers: he answered.

'Fight to be sure!' Having asked
Malcolm if he should be known in his present dress, and
Malcolm having replied he would, he said, 'Then
I'll blacken my face with powder.'
'That,' said Malcolm, 'would discover you
at once.'
'Then,' said he, 'I must be put in
the greatest dishabille
possible.' So he pulled off his wig,
tied a handkerchief round his head, and put
his night-cap over it, tore the ruffles from his
shirt, took the buckles out of his shoes, and made
Malcolm fasten them with strings; but
still Malcolm thought he would be known. 'I have so odd a
face,' said he, 'that no man ever saw me but he would know
me again.'
He seemed unwilling to give credit to the
horrid narrative of men being massacred in cold blood, after victory
had declared for the army commanded by the Duke of Cumberland.

He could not allow himself to think that a general
could be so barbarous.

When they came within two miles of
M'Kinnon's house, Malcolm asked if he chose to see
the laird.
In the dim sanctuary of the pines
The winds murmur their mysteries through dusky aisles--
Secrets of earth’s renewal and the endless cycle of life.
Living things are afoot among the grasses;
The closed fingers of the ferns unfold,
New bees explore new flowers, and the brook
Pours virgin waters from the rushing founts of May.
In the old walls there are sinister voices--
The groans of women charged with witchcraft.
I see a lone, gray, haggard woman standing at bay,
Helpless against her grim, sin-darkened judges.
Terror blanches her lips and makes her confess
Bonds with demons that her heart knows not.
Satan sits by the judgment-seat and laughs.
The gray walls, broken, weatherworn oracles,
Sing that she was once a girl of love and laughter,
Then a fair mother with lullabies on her lips,
Caresses in her eyes, who spent her days
In weaving warmth to keep her brood against the winter cold.
And in her tongue was the law of kindness;
For her God was the Lord Jehovah.
Enemies uprose and swore her accused,
Laid at her door the writhing forms of little children,
And she could but answer: “The Evil One
Torments them in my shape.”
She stood amazed before the tribunal of her church
And heard the gate of God’s house closed against her.
Oh, shuddering silence of the throng,
And fearful the words spoken from the judgment-seat!
She raised her white head and clasped her wrinkled hands:
“Pity me, Lord, pity my anguish!
Nor, since Thou art a just and terrible God,
Forget to visit thy wrath upon these people;
For they have sworn away the life of Thy servant
Who hath lived long in the land keeping Thy commandments.
I am old, Lord, and betrayed;
By neighbor and kin am I betrayed;
A Judas kiss hath marked me for a witch.
Possessed of a devil?  Here be a legion of devils!
Smite them, O God, yea, utterly destroy them that persecute the innocent.”
Before this mother in Israel the judges cowered;
But still they suffered her to die.
Through the tragic, guilty walls I hear the sighs
Of desolate women and penitent, remorseful men.

Sing of happier themes, O many-voiced epic,
Sing how the ages, like thrifty husbandmen, winnow the creeds of
 men,
And leave only faith and love and truth.
Sing of the Puritan’s nobler nature,
Fathomless as the forests he felled,
Irresistible as the winds that blow.
His trenchant conviction was but the somber bulwark
Which guarded his pure ideal.
Resolute by the communion board he stood,
And after solemn prayer solemnly cancelled
And abolished the divine right of kings
And declared the holy rights of man.
Prophet and toiler, yearning for other worlds, yet wise in this;
Scornful of earthly empire and brooding on death,
Yet wrestling life out of the wilderness
And laying stone on stone the foundation of a temporal state!
I see him standing at his cabin-door at eventide
With dreaming, fearless eyes gazing at sunset hills;
In his prophetic sight Liberty, like a bride,
Hasteth to meet her lord, the westward-going man!
He praised the design, but wished there
had been more books, and those better chosen.

About a mile from Monboddo, where you
turn off the road, Joseph was waiting to
tell us my lord expected us to dinner. We drove over a
wild moor.SIR,
Having occasion to write to your fields, I cannot be
forgetful of your willingness and good
affection to his Majesty's service. I
acknowledge to you, and thank you
heartily for it assuring, that in what lies
in my power, you shall find the good. Mean
while, I shall expect that you will
continue your loyal endeavours, in wishing those slack
people that are about you, to appear
more obedient than they do, and loyal in their
prince's service; whereby I assure you,
you shall find me ever
Your faithful friend, MONTROSE.

Petty, 17 April, 1646.
[Footnote: It is observeable that men of the first rank spelt very
ill in the last century. In the first of these letters I have
preserved the original spelling.]Beyond the wall a new-plowed field lies steaming in the sun,
And down the road a merry group of children
Run toward the village school.

Hear, O hear!  In the historian walls
Rises the beat and the tumult of the struggle for freedom.
Sacred, blood-stained walls, your peaceful front
Sheltered the fateful fires of Lexington;
Builded to fence green fields and keep the herds at pasture,
Ye became the frowning breastworks of stern battle;
Lowly boundaries of the freeman’s farm,
Ye grew the rampart of a land at war;
And still ye cross the centuries
Between the ages of monarchs and the age
When farmers in their fields are kings.
From the Revolution the young Republic emerged,
She mounted up as on the wings of the eagle,
She ran and was not weary, and all the children of the world
Joined her and followed her shining path.
A lofty oak will not bend like a supple
willow.

He told me afterwards, he liked firmness in an old man, and was pleased
to see Mr M'Lean so orthodox. 'At his age, it is too
late for a man to be asking himself questions as
to his belief.'
We rode to the northern part of the
island, where we saw the ruins of a church or
chapel.

We then proceeded to a place called Grissipol, or the Rough
 Pool.

At Grissipol we found a good farm house,
belonging to the Laird of Col, and possessed by Mr M'Sweyn.
On the beach here there is a singular variety
of curious stones. I picked up one
very like a small cucumber.

By the by, Dr Johnson told me, that Gay's line in
the Beggar's Opera, 'As men should serve a cucumber,' &c. has
 no waggish
meaning, with reference to men flinging
away cucumbers as too COOLING, which some
have thought; for it has been
a common saying of physicians in England, that a cucumber should
be well sliced, and dressed with pepper and vinegar,
and then thrown out, as good for nothing. Mr
M'Sweyn's predecessors had been in Sky from a very remote
period, upon the estate belonging to M'Leod;
probably before M'Leod had it. The name is certainly
Norwegian, from Sueno, King of Norway. The
present Mr M'Sweyn left Sky upon the
late M'Leod's raising his rents.
He then got this farm from Col.

He appeared to be near fourscore; but
looked as fresh, and was as strong as a man
of fifty. His son Hugh looked older; and, as
Dr Johnson observed, had more the manners of an
old man than he. I had often heard of such instances, but never
saw one before. Mrs M'Sweyn was a decent old gentlewoman. She was
dressed in tartan, and could speak nothing but Erse. She said, she
taught Sir James M'Donald Erse, and would teach me soon.The walls contest the onward march of the wheat;
But the wheat is charged with the life of the world;
Its force is irresistible; onward it sweeps,
An engulfing tide, over all the land,
Till hill and valley, field and plain
Are flooded with its green felicity!
Out of the moist earth it has sprung;
In the gracious amplitudes of her bosom it was nurtured,
And in it is wrought the miracle of life.

Sing, prophetic, mystic walls, of the dreams of the builders;
Sing in thundering tones that shall thrill us
To try our dull discontent, our barren wisdom
Against their propagating, unquenchable, questionless visions.
Sing in renerving refrain of the resolute men,
Each a Lincoln in his smoldering patience,
Each a Luther in his fearless faith,
Who made a breach in the wall of darkness
And let the hosts of liberty march through.

Calm, eternal walls, tranquil, mature,
Which old voices, old songs, old kisses cover,
As mosses and lichens cover your ancient stones,
Teach me the secret of your serene repose;
Tell of the greater things to be,
When love and wisdom are the only creed,
And law and right are one.
Sing that the Lord cometh, the Lord cometh,
The fountain-head and spring of life!
Sing, steady, exultant walls, in strains hallowed and touched with
 fire,
Sing that the Lord shall build us all together.
As living stones build us, cemented together.
May He who knoweth every pleasant thing
That our sires forewent to teach the peoples law and truth,
Who counted every stone blessed by their consecrated hands,
Grant that we remain liberty-loving, substantial, elemental,
And that faith, the rock not fashioned of human hands,
Be the stability of our triumphant, toiling days.