"The officer has not yet given any orders to put the boxes in the
passageways aside, and he will not do so, probably, until they are able
to ascertain whether or not the ship will free itself; under the
circumstances, Alfred, I must delegate you to secure a half-dozen of the
revolvers, or remove them from the box so that we can secrete them
later," said the captain.

As Ralph crawled from the cabin and moved toward the main gangway, the
captain added: "If you remember where one of the ammunition boxes is you
might smuggle it into this room, but proceed very cautiously."

Ralph soon made his way back, carrying with him one of the revolvers.
"There are a dozen in the box," he said, "and I brought one over to show
you. You see, it is the kind from which the cylinder can be removed.
Wouldn't it be a good idea to take the cylinders out of all that we
can't use?"

"Capital idea," said the captain. "If you can find any wire, put it
where you can quickly place your hands on it."

"I found a box of ammunition also," continued Ralph, "but I haven't
tried whether it would fit the revolvers."

An examination revealed the fact that the cartridges were not of the
same calibre. It was, indeed, a terrible disappointment.

"Here it is," said Alfred, as he slipped into the door of the room.

"Ah, this is a different size; you have the right ones, fortunately,"
said the captain.

"Now, let me give you a few words as to the next,----"

A pronounced lurch in the vessel's position interrupted the captain. The
seamen were now rushing around frantically, and talking excitedly.

"Hold your tongues!" shouted the sub-lieutenant.

The vessel was, evidently, moving. Occasionally, there would be a heavy,
rasping sound, and the rear end of the boat would seem to settle down a
few feet.

Hail, future men of Germanopolis!

Let the young generations yet to be Look kindly upon this.

Think how your fathers left their native land,-- Dear German-land! O
sacred hearths and homes!--

And, where the wild beast roams, In patience planned New forest-homes
beyond the mighty sea, There undisturbed and free To live as
brothers of one family.

What pains and cares befell, What trials and what fears, Remember,
and wherein we have done well Follow our footsteps, men of coming
years!

Where we have failed to do Aright, or wisely live, Be warned by us,
the better way pursue, And, knowing we were human, even as you,
Pity us and forgive!

Farewell, Posterity!
Farewell, dear Germany Forevermore farewell!

[From the Latin of Francis DANIEL PASTORIUS in the Germantown
Records. 1688.]

That there was confusion on the part of the crew of the vessel, was
apparent, for the sub-lieutenant shouted one order after the other,
until he seemed to be incoherent, and, as a result, no one knew what was
expected of him or what to do.

Evidently, the captain knew the trouble and how to remedy it, for within
a minute the lights were again in commission, and the captain was
noticed at the main switch. From that point he shouted to the
sub-lieutenant:

"I found a box on the switchboard. It had slipped down and thrown out
the switch bar at the time the boat made the last lurch."

"Thank you for the service," said the sub-lieutenant, to the surprise of
the captain and boys.

As the captain returned to their room he remarked: "The sub-lieutenant
was very polite; probably he would not be so likely to thank me for some
other things I have done."

"What! since you left us two minutes ago?" asked Ralph.

The captain nodded. "But I started to say a few minutes ago," he
continued, "that we ought to have our work planned out ahead and
thoroughly understand each other. There is one thing I must impress on
you, and that is, we must not again be locked up in this room. I have no
faith in the present commander, and would be very much mistaken if he
permits us to have our freedom after we once get free of the nets."

"What must be done if he again orders us locked up?" asked Alfred.

"That brings us to the point where we must make a canvass of the
situation as it confronts us. Let me see; there are three men in
addition to the commander, who need not be reckoned with in a contest.
Fortunately, one of the men is a machinist, and the only other man
except the sub-lieutenant, of any intelligence, is the doctor. I doubt
if he would be a strong factor against us," said the captain.

"The fellow who had charge of the men carrying the boxes is nothing but
a chump," said Ralph. "I wouldn't be afraid of him."

"I am considering more the character of the men who are able to handle
the boat, and who know the intricacies of the mechanism. I can see where
men of that sort will be able to make it very interesting for us if we
should attempt to capture the officers and crew," said the captain
thoughtfully.

It was evident that the vessel was slowly righting itself, for every
minute or two there would be a slight sinking movement, which was very
gratifying.

"Where are the revolvers?" asked the captain.

"I found a dandy place for them, and can get them in a minute, if
wanted," said Ralph.

"Captain, I wanted to ask you some time ago what you meant by saying
that the sub-lieutenant didn't know any more about submarining than he
ought to. What did you mean by that?" asked Alfred.

"One of the things I had in mind was, when he was trying to start the
propellers, that he could have found an easier way to learn whether they
were in the water or not," was the answer.

"How so?" asked Ralph.

"The indicator board in the conning tower shows just how far the vessel
is under water," replied the captain.

"But," said Alfred, "would that tell it correctly if one end of the
vessel should be up and the other down, as this is?"

"Why not? It would indicate how far down in the water the hull would be
amidship, and it would not require much involved calculating to figure
out where the stern of the vessel would be if he knew the angle at which
the hull was resting," answered the captain.

"I would just like to know how far we are down," said Ralph, looking up
the stairway into the conning tower.

"Do you think you could spot the right dial face if you went up?" asked
the captain.

"I think I could," said Ralph, rather doubtingly, it must be admitted.

"Then I'll give you a little hint, if you'd like to try to make an
investigation," said the captain. "Directly forward of the table, which
contains the chart, and below the three levers, you will see a glass
column with red colored liquid in it,----"

"I know what you mean now," said Ralph, interrupting.

"Well, simply get the number on the card on the right side of the glass
column. Do you understand?" remarked the captain.

"Yes; but why not take the numbers on the left side also?" asked Ralph.

"They merely indicate the pressure. Depth below the surface is all we
want," rejoined the captain.

"Well, here goes; and I hope they won't catch me at it," said Ralph, as
he slowly moved out.

"One moment," said the captain, as he put forth a restraining hand.
"What will you do, or how will you act if some one should catch you in
the tower?" Again she looked: between green walls of shade, With low-bent head
as if with sorrow weighed, Daniel Pastorius slowly came and said,
"God's peace be with thee, Anna!"

Then he stood Silent before her, wrestling with the mood Of one who
sees the evil and not good.

Go up
boldly, as though you had a perfect right to, or that you did not
suspect it was a forbidden place; if some one accosts you look at him in
a surprised way, make an apology, and retire; I give you this pointer
because you may be flustrated and unable to make a prompt reply, and
that would show guilt of some kind," said the captain.

Ralph went out and loitered about, gazing at the various pieces of
machinery, and finally stood on the steps of the conning tower, which,
at the angle of the boat in its inclined position, were almost
horizontal. He stretched himself out on the stairs, and turned his head.
From that point he could see the red liquid in the glass column, but it
was difficult to read the figures.

The glare from the electric light interfered with his sight, and before
he had an opportunity to get a glimpse of the figures from his new
position, one of the petty officers crawled along the passageway, and,
noticing him lying on the stairs, peremptorily ordered him to get down.

Ralph glanced at the man, smiled at him, and promptly complied,
chagrined at his failure. As he entered the little room the captain
eagerly questioned him: "What did it say?" he asked.

"That fellow ordered me away before I could make out the figures," said
Ralph, "but I'm going to try it again."

"How near was the liquid from the top of the glass tube?" asked the
captain.

"Well, I should say about so far," replied Ralph, indicating space
between his thumb and finger. "I guess it was about an inch."

"How long do you think the tube is?" asked the captain.

"I think it must be a foot long; probably more," was the answer.

"I asked you to give me an estimate of the length of the entire tube so
as to give me some assurance that you knew the value of an inch. You
were right; those tubes are twelve inches long. Now let me see; I ought
to know what figures are an inch from the top!" remarked the captain
thoughtfully.

"Pardon me, Captain, but how does it come that you know all about these
boats?" asked Alfred.

"I used to be an officer on a French submarine," he replied in a quiet
tone, and immediately proceeded to make certain mental calculations.
Then he continued: "One inch below the top! That is twenty."

"Twenty what?" asked Ralph.

"Twenty feet; the Germans have the English foot on all their boats. I
wonder they didn't think about that, and make a change before starting
out."

"Maybe it's twenty meters," said Alfred, with a slight laugh.

"Oh, no," replied the captain. "That would be too Frenchy for the
Germans. Besides, it would be too much by all odds. I am sure the
conning tower is not more than twenty feet below the surface of the
water."

Fair First-Day mornings, steeped in summer calm, Warm, tender, restful,
sweet with woodland balm, Came to him, like some mother-hallowed
psalm
To the tired grinder at the noisy wheel Of labor, winding off from
memory's reel A golden thread of music.

With no peal

Of bells to call them to the house of praise, The scattered settlers
through green forest-ways Walked meeting-ward.

In reverent amaze
The Indian trapper saw them, from the dim Shade of the alders on
the rivulet's rim, Seek the Great Spirit's house to talk with Him.

A string, or piece of thread will make a
plumb-bob; here it is: now let us see; according to the plumb line the
boat is at an angle of 33 degrees, as nearly as our imperfect device
indicates. There, now this line A shows the top of the boat and B the
base of the conning tower. A line C, from the top of the water to the
center of the conning tower, measuring 20 feet, shows where the water
line is. Do you understand how I am doing it?"

"That is very plain," said Alfred, "and it is an interesting way to get
at it, too. Then how far is the tail of the boat out of the water?"

"I should say it is about nine feet," replied the captain.

"No wonder the propellers didn't do any good when they sent them
spinning!"

"There is one thing I forgot about," said the captain, as he shook his
head. "Why didn't I tell you to note the time. We are in the greatest
danger, I fear."

"Why, what makes you think so?" asked Ralph.

"This accident happened during the night, and we have now been in this
condition for at least four hours. If we are caught here at daylight it
is all up with us," remarked the captain.

"Why, is it any more dangerous then than now?" asked Alfred.

