"Then you would not be content to live here with your wife, and
support yourself from the place?"

"I did not say so--but that it was impossible. Heaven knows I count
wealth as nothing compared to Isabel."

"Then you only think of her, you care nothing for, for "--

Aunt Hannah paused, and put a hand to her throat, as if the words she
suppressed pained her.

"I care for her, and for all that have been kind to her, now or ever,"
he replied, impressively; "most of all I am grateful to yourself."

"Once again," said aunt Hannah, clinging tenaciously to the point
which seemed to interest her so much, "if you could not marry Isabel
Chester without becoming as poor, for instance, as Joseph Esmond
is--would you give up all and marry her?"

"Once again, then, yes, I would."

"And be happy after it?"

"With _her_, yes!"

"But you have never worked?"

"I can learn!"

"You are learned and love to mingle with great men. You are proud, and
this is a poor old house!" She argued so earnestly that he could not
refrain from smiling.

"I fancy, if the need come, I would get along with all these
difficulties, without much regret. But this is idle speculation. In
another month I shall be of age; then no one can claim legal authority
over me or mine. I know there is great wealth to be accounted for, but
have never known how much, or what restrictions are upon it. If it
leaves me at liberty to marry Isabel, and she will give up this cruel
resolve to abandon me, for her sake independence shall be welcome, if
not, then I will answer your questions more promptly than you perhaps
expect."

"That girl will never marry your mother's son--she has taken an oath
against it."

"She shall marry me. Who can help it? Do we not love each other? If
her proud spirit rejects the property, so be it--I care as little for
gold as she does. - Jordan! ¡Jordán! - Cried, rigid horror, while
watching the carpet. Jordan ran into the bedroom, and appear to
view the Alicia gave a shriek of horror. - I, Alicia, soy yo!

Alicia looked at him with loss , looked at the carpet, look again,
and after long time of stupefied confrontation, is serene.

He smiled and took his hand between her husband, trembling patting.

Among his most stubborn hallucination, there was an anthropoid,
supported by the fingers on the carpet, which was fixed on her eyes.

Doctors again to no avail.

  Were there before them a life
    that is just, bleeding every day, hour
  by hour, not knowing quite how.
    In the last Alice stupor while they lay in the press, going from
one to the other wrist inert.

The observed long time in silence and went to the dining room. - ...--
Pst shrugged his doctor discouraged .- It is a serious case ... There
is little to do ... - I am just missing! - Jordan puff. And suddenly
drumming on the table. Subdelirio Alicia was extinguished in anemia,
worsened in the afternoon, but always referred to in the early hours.
During the day I moved his illness, but livid dawn every morning,
in almost fainting.

Appeared only at night is beyond life on new waves of blood. I always
had to evoke the feeling of being collapsed into bed with over a
million pounds. From the third day this fall no more left. I could
barely move his head. He did not want to touch the bed or even to fix
the cushion.

Crepuscular terrors in their advanced form of monsters that are dragged
to the bed and climbed hampered by the bedspread. Lost, then knowledge.
The final two days without ceasing delire half voice. The lights
were still burning in the funeral hall and bedroom. Dying in the
silence of the house, was not heard above the monotonous delirium
that came out of the bed, and choked with the perennial rumor steps
of Jordan.

He died, at last. The maid, who came later to undo the bed, and single,
he looked a bit surprising cushion. - Sir - Jordan called whisper .--
The cushion is stains of blood appeared. Jordan approached rapidly
and doubled in turn.

Indeed, on the sleeve, on both sides of the hole I had left the head
of Alice, had blood stains. - Seem bites - the maid murmured after
a moment of motionless observation. - To lift the light -- said
Jordan.

The servant raised him, but then it dropped, and was looking at it,
livid and trembling.

Without knowing why, Jordan felt the hair was bristling. - What?

- Whispered with a hoarse voice. - Weigh too much - articulated the
maid, while shaking.

Jordán raised him; extraordinarily weighed. They left with him, and
on the dining table and Jordan cut sleeve wrap a pit.

Feathers flew above, and the maid gave a cry of horror with his
mouth open, taking a tense hand side - on fund, among the feathers,
slowly moving hairy legs, had a monstrous animal, a living ball and
viscose.

I was so swollen that he barely uttered the mouth. Night after night,
since Alicia had fallen into bed, had stealthily applied its mouth
- his trunk, or rather - the feel of it, suck blood.

The bite was almost imperceptible. The removal of the cushion daily had
no doubt prevented their development, but since the girl could not move,
the suction was dizzying.

In five days, five nights, had emptied Alicia.

These parasites of birds, tiny in the usual , come to acquire enormous
proportions under certain conditions. Human blood seems to be
particularly favorable, and it is not uncommon to find feathered
pillows. # # The rabid dog EL March 20 this year, residents of a
village in the Chaco Santa Fe chased a man in pursuit of that rabid
download his shotgun on his wife, killed in a shooting at a pawn
that crossed in front of him.

The neighbors, armed, as tracked in the bush like a wild beast, being
finally climbed into a tree, still with his shotgun, yelling and
a horrible way.

Viéronse the need to kill with one stone. * * * * * # March 9 - #
Today is thirty-nine days, hour by hour, the rabid dog entered the night
in our room. If a memory has to endure in my memory, is the two
hours after that time.

The house had no doors but in the living room mom, because you had from
the outset to be afraid, I did not do anything else in the
early days of urgent facility, sawing boards for doors and windows
of his room.

In ours, and waiting for more relief work, my wife has been content
- true that under a little pressure on my part - with magnificent
doors burlap.
But aunt Hannah was earnest in comforting her, and though she gave no
tangible grounds for hope, the confidence that woman of few words
expressed in the future, gave Isabel new strength.

Salina, too, with her warm defence of Frederick's course--her contempt
for vows of any kind--for in this she was an intensely strong-minded
woman--and her detestation of Mrs. Farnham, served to strengthen the
life in that drooping form. In spite of her hopelessness, Isabel grew
perceptibly better; but with this slow gathering of strength came back
the old struggle; nothing had been changed. How could she ever be well
again with this eternal strife between her conscience and her heart?

Cold weather came on, producing no event at the Old Homestead. Uncle
Nathan stationed his easy-chair by the kitchen fire, but insisted on
resigning it to Isabel whenever she came down to sit with the family.
Aunt Hannah became more and more lonesome, but was always keenly
observant, and towards the young girls her kindness was exhibited in a
thousand noiseless ways, that filled their warm hearts with gratitude.
Young Farnham had been to the city, and it was only two evenings
before his birth-day that he returned.

Since the time when Isabel left his house, he had avoided all
conversation with his mother regarding the young girl, and Mrs.
Farnham, after sending the poor girl's wardrobe after her, seemed to
have forgotten that such a being existed, except that she talked to
her son about the ingratitude of the world in general, and of
poorhouse creatures in particular.

The young man had a clear head and a firm will, that might waver to
circumstances, but seldom swerved entirely from its object. His
resolution to marry Isabel Chester was unshaken, even by the firmness
of the young lady herself. He was resolved to conquer the prejudice,
as he thought it, which was the great obstacle to their immediate
union. His mother's consent he did not despair of attaining.

The night after he returned home, Mrs. Farnham was in a state of
remarkable good humor. Frederick had brought her pleasant news from
the city. The house they had been building in one of the avenues was
completed, and ready for its furniture. There was a promise of endless
shopping excursions and important business of all kinds. The lady was
heartily tired of her present still life, and found the prospect of
returning to town, under these circumstances, exhilarating.

"I am glad you are so well pleased," said Frederick, seating himself
among the silken cushions of the couch, upon which his mother had
placed herself; for, as we have said, Mrs. Farnham affected great
splendor even in her country residence.

"I am glad you are pleased, mother, for I wish very much to see you
happy."

"Oh, if it hadn't been for that wicked upstart girl we should always
have been happy, Fred. I'm so grateful that you have got over that
degrading fancy," said Mrs. Farnham, a little anxiously, for with that
low-born cunning which is the wisdom of silly women, she took this
indirect way of ascertaining whether Frederick really held to his
attachment for the wronged girl or not.

"Such a catch as you are, Fred; young, handsome and a millionaire, to
throw yourself away on a pauper, when half the most fashionable girls
in town are dressing and dancing at you."

"Hush, mother," said the young man, I cannot hear you speak lightly of
Isabel, for God willing, if I can win her consent, the day I am of age
makes her my wife."

"Are you crazy, Farnham? how dare you say this to me?"

"Because it's the truth, mother."

"And you _will_ brave me! you _will_ bring a pauper into my house! be
careful, sir, be careful!"

"Mother, in this thing, I must judge for myself. My father, I know,
intended that I should, else why did he leave me, untrammeled as I
am?"

Mrs. Farnham started up--her pale blue eyes gleamed venomously. She
stood for a moment, growing paler, and more repulsive; some evil idea
evidently possessed her.

"Be careful, be careful," she said, shaking her finger at him,
menacingly, "do not provoke me--don't go a step farther, or I will
prove how far you are untrammeled. Another word and there will be no
medium between my love and my hate."

"Mother, are you mad?"

"Mother, indeed! I have been a mother to you. I've done what few
mothers would have the courage to undertake for a child, but what I
have done can be taken back--don't provoke me, I tell you, again,
Frederick Farnham--don't provoke your mother."

"Oh, be a mother, a true-hearted woman," cried Fred, imploringly;
"Isabel will love you; be kind to her."

Mrs. Farnham drew back, and folded her arms in an attitude she had
seen Rachel assume on the stage, and which she deemed very imposing.

"Frederick Farnham, if you marry that girl I will bring you to her
level--I will make a pauper of you."

Frederick smiled; the whole thing struck him as a farce badly played.

"I shall certainly marry her, if she will accept me," he said, coldly.

Mrs. Farnham strode from the room, sweeping by her son with a furious
display of temper. Directly she returned with a folded paper in her
hand.

"Here, sir, is your father's will, made out by his own hand, three
days before his death; we shall prove how far it makes you independent
of your mother."

"My father's will!" exclaimed Frederick, turning white with surprise;
"my father's will in your hands, and produced for the first time!
Madam, explain this."

The stern paleness of his face struck the woman with terror; the
passion that had made her forget everything but revenge, was quenched
beneath his firm glance. She began to tremble, and attempted to hide
the paper in the folds of her dress.

"Promise me to give up this girl, and I will burn it," she said, with
a frightened look. "It was for your sake I kept it back; he wanted to
give your fortune away; I could not stand it, besides no one asked for
the will; promise me, and I'll burn it."

"I will make no promise. If that is my father's will give it to me and
it shall be acted upon, though every cent I have be swept away. Give
me the will, madam."

"No, no, don't ask for it. There is a medium in all things; I was
angry, I did not mean what I said."

"Oblige me, madam, I must see that paper--mother, I will see it!"
exclaimed Frederick, impetuously, as she crumpled the document tightly
in her hand, retreating backward from the room with her eyes fixed
upon his with the expression of a weak child, detected in its
wickedness.

"How dare you, Frederick Farnham, how dare you speak to your mother in
that tone?" she said, in a voice that was half defiant, half
reproachful, still retreating from him.

"It is useless, mother, I demand that paper! It must be placed in the
hand of my guardian."

"It never shall!" cried the mother, darting through the door; and
rushing toward the kitchen with angry swiftness, she dashed the paper
over Salina's shoulder into a huge fire that blazed in the chimney.

Frederick followed her, pale with excitement.

"You have not, mother, you dare not!"

Mrs. Farnham broke into a hysterical laugh.

"It's burned--it's ashes!" she said. "Oh, Frederick, what a mother I
have been to you."

Farnham turned away, muttering gloomily to himself. The old lady
followed him.

"Don't be angry, Fred, I did it for your good, for your own good;
nobody is hurt by it but myself; I lose all authority over you now.
Why, Fred, by that will, if you'd persisted in marrying without my
consent, the whole property would have been--yes, would have been
mine. See what I have sacrificed to you; but there is a medium in
everything but a mother's love. I could have forced you to give up
that girl, but see how I have destroyed my own power. You will
remember this, dear boy, and not break my heart by this low match."

"Mother, if that paper was my father's will, you have committed a
great wrong--a serious legal wrong. I cannot be grateful for it, I can
never respect you again."

Mrs. Farnham began to cry.

"There it is," she said. "If I have done any wrong, it's you that
urged me to it; as for that will, I always meant to keep the just
medium between right and wrong, and let the thing rest in my
writing-desk without saying a word about it. I wouldn't have burned
it--nor have touched it again on any account, but you made me do both.
First you provoked me to bring it out from where it had rested
innocent as a lamb for so many years. Then, as if that wasn't enough,
the way you went on was so dreadful. You drove me to it; what else
could you expect from a mother's love, especially such a mother as I
have been to you, Frederick?"

Farnham was still excited, but sternly thoughtful.

"Mother," he said, "I must know what the will contained. It shall be
acted upon to the very letter. You know its contents; tell me on your
honor as a lady, on your honesty as a woman, all that you remember of
it, word for word."

"No!" said Mrs. Farnham, petulantly, "I won't say a word about it, I
won't own that there ever was a will; but if you'll be quiet,
to-morrow Mr. Wales, my lawyer will be up. I sent for him to meet your
guardian and myself on your birth-day, to help about settling the
affairs, he will talk with you."

"Beit so, mother, but remember this testament must be carried out to
the letter."

"Very well; I'll consult about it, we shall be able to strike a medium
yet. Fred, you may not believe it, but you've got a mother, a true
mother, one in ten thousand, Frederick Farnham."

By the way Mrs. Farnham withdrew, one might have fancied she had done
a meritorious thing in concealing, and at last destroying her
husband's will. Indeed she had convinced herself of this, and went out
with an air of great self-complacency.


CHAPTER XLVII.

SALINA BOWLES' MISSION.


  With an honest purpose, whatever betide,
    She stands like a pillar of native stone,
  Firm and rough, with a cap of pride--
    Till her trust is given, her mission done.

With characteristic reverence for ancient usages, Salina Bowles set
herself resolutely against all cooking-stoves, modern ranges and
inventions of that class. That exemplary female was often heard to
declare that no decent meal could ever be cooked by any of these
new-fangled contrivances. A hickory back log, and good oak-wood
answered her purpose quite well enough. Only give her plenty of them
and she'd cook a dinner with any woman on this side of sundown. From
these prejudices it happened that Salina, in order to prepare the late
dinner with which Mrs. Farnham usually taxed all her culinary genius,
had built a huge wood-fire, and was planting again even on the hearth
before it, when a folded paper flashed over her shoulder, and rushing
through the flames fell behind the back log.

Salina rose promptly upright, gave Mrs. Farnham a sharp look, and
stooped to pick up the comb that had been knocked loose from her hair.
When her eyes fell once again on the young man and his mother, she
began deliberately twisting up her hair, while the brief dialogue we
have recorded passed between them.

After they went out, Salina removed her tin oven from before the fire,
took up a huge pair of tongs and deliberately fished out Mr. Farnham's
will from behind the back-log. It had been a good deal blackened and
scorched at the edges in its passage through the flames, but the
writing was only slightly obliterated. Salina, who had no scruples
against reading a document so obtained, recognized the signature, and
gathered enough from the contents to be certain that it was an
important paper.

She thrust the will into her bosom with great deliberation, replaced
her tin oven on the hearth, and went on with her work as usual. Once
or twice she paused in her occupation, and seemed pondering over some
idea in her mind, but when the other servants came in she said nothing
of the subject of her thoughts. The moment dinner was over, which Mrs.
Farnham partook of alone. Salina put on her sun-bonnet and shawl,
merely saying that "she was going out a spell," and took a short cut
across the fields towards Judge Sharp's house, leaving the Old
Homestead on her right, determined not to visit that till after her
errand was accomplished.

The judge was a little surprised when Salina appeared before him with
a peremptory request that he would leave his women folks and give her
a few words with him alone.

He went into the library and closed the door, wondering in his mind
what could have brought that interesting female into his presence,
with her face so full of mysterious importance.

Salina folded her shawl close over her bosom while she drew forth the
will.

"Here, Judge, you may as well take charge of that concern, I reckon;
being a friend of the family, you'll know best what to do with it."

The Judge unfolded the paper and glanced at the first page. His eyes
began to fill with astonishment.

"Why, where on earth did you get this?" he said.

"I got it honestly, and that's enough; if it's all right I'll go."

"But tell me something more about it," persisted the judge.

"Least said soonest mended; I ain't a female traitor and spy, nor
nothing of that sort! what you've got you've got! It ain't of no
consequence where you got it, or how you got it, it's there, and
that's enough?"

"But, but"--

"I'm in a hurry, the dishes ain't washed up yet."

"Indeed Salina you must tell me!"

Salina folded her blanket-shawl tightly around her upright person.

"Judge Sharp, it's of no use--I'm flint."

With these words that strong-minded female turned, with her nose in
the air, and left the room, planting her footsteps with great
firmness, as if she meant by their very sound to impress the judge
with the strength of her determination.

"I hate the woman like rank poison," she said while wading through the
stubble behind uncle Nat's barn on her way home, "but her name is
Farnham, and it'd be mean as a nigger and meaner too for me to say a
word about that document; let Judge Sharp cipher out his own sums if
he wants to, I ain't a-going to help him--there!"

With this exclamation, the strong-minded woman returned home,
perfectly satisfied with her mission and herself.


CHAPTER XLVIII.

THE DOUBLE CONFESSION.


  Ask her not why her heart has lost its lightness,
    And hoards its dreamy thoughts, serenely still,
  Like some pure lotus flower, that folds its whiteness
    Upon the bosom of its native rill!

"Mary Fuller, what ails you? All this time your eyes are heavy, and
you look every other minute as if just going to cry. What is it all
about?"

This was a long speech for aunt Hannah, and it made Mary start and
blush like a guilty thing, especially as it followed a protracted
silence that had been disturbed only by the click of aunt Hannah's
knitting-needles.

"Matter with me, aunt? Nothing. What makes you think of me at all?"

"Because it is my duty to think of you. Because there is need that
some one should take care of you."

"Of me?" said Mary, blushing to the temples, "what have I done, aunt?"

"What everything of womankind must do, sooner or later, I suppose, my
poor girl."

"What is that, dear aunt?" faltered the girl.

The old lady laid down her knitting, and leaned on the candle-stand
with both her elbows; thus her aged face drew close to that of the
young girl.

"You have begun to love this artist youth, Mary Fuller!" she said, in
a low whisper, for the very name of love pained her old heart as a
sudden shock sends veins of silver along a sheet of ice. "Don't cry,
Mary; don't cry; it is a great misfortune, but no fault. How could you
help it, poor child!"

"Oh! aunt Hannah, how did you find this out?" whispered the
shame-stricken girl, "I thought"--

"That nobody knew it but yourself. Well, well, don't look so
frightened; it's no reason that others know it because I do."

"And Joseph, do you think? do you believe? I would not think it for a
moment," she continued, with the most touching humility, "but he
cannot fancy such a thing--and so I--I did not know but"--

"I think he loves you, Mary Fuller!" answered the old lady, breaking
through her hesitating phrases, in womanly pity of her embarrassment.

Mary started as if a blow had fallen upon her.

"Oh! don't, don't, I dare not believe it. What? me?--me? Please don't
say this, aunt Hannah, it makes the very heart quiver in my bosom."

"I am sure he loves you, Mary, or I would not say it. Do I ever joke?
Am I blind at heart?"

Mary Fuller covered her face, while great sobs of joy broke in her
bosom, and rushed in tears to her eyes.

"Oh! I am faint--I shall die of this great joy--but oh! if you should
be mistaken!"

"But I am _not_. How should _I_ be mistaken? When a mother buries her
child deep in the grave-yard, does she forget what mothers' love is?
Those who forget their youth in happiness may be deceived. I never
can!"

"And you think he loves me?"

Mary leaned forward and laid her clasped hands pleadingly on the
knotted fingers of the old maid.

Aunt Hannah looked down almost tenderly through her spectacles, and a
smile crept over her mouth.

"_I_ know he loves you."

Mary Fuller's radiant face drooped forward at these words, and she
fell to kissing these old hands eagerly, as if the knotted veins were
filled with honey dew upon which her heart feasted.

"Stop, stop!" said aunt Hannah, withdrawing her hands, and laying them
softly on the bowed head of her protege, "don't give way so; remember
Joseph is very feeble yet, from the fever that nearly cost him his
life, and that he has nothing to live on but what he calls his art;
Nathan and I might help him, but we have only a few acres of land to
live on, and are getting older every day. There is not the strength of
one robust man among us all--to say nothing of the poor girl up
stairs."

"But he loves me. Oh! aunt, you are sure of that?"

"But how can he marry you, poor as he is, with no more power to work
than a child?"

"Marry me! I never thought of that," said the girl, lifting her face
all in a glow from her hands, "but he will live here always, and so
will I. Morning and night, and all day long I shall see him, hear his
music, watch the changes of his beautiful, beautiful face. You may
grow old as fast as you like, you and uncle Nat; I can support you, he
will teach me to paint pictures, and we can sell them in the city.
Besides, Joseph can make music on the violin, and I have learned to
write it out on paper. The rich people in New York will give money for
music and pictures like his, I know; you shall not work so hard after
this, aunt Hannah; and as for uncle Nat, he shall snooze in his
easy-chair all day long if he likes."

Aunt Hannah shook her head, and a mist stole over her spectacles. She
was getting very childish in her old age, that stern old maid.

"You are a nice girl, Mary," she said, "and mean right, I know. But
Joseph will never be content to let you support him if you had the
strength. He is very manly and proud with all his softness."

"I know it, aunt, but then remember I am like his sister."

"But sisters do not support their brothers, and men do not like to
take favors where they ought to give them."

"Oh! aunt Hannah, you make me so unhappy. What difference can it make
which does the work where two people love each other?"

"This," answered the old maid; "women were born to look upward with
their hearts and cling to others for support--men were made to give
this support. You cannot change places and be happy!"

"I see, I see," murmured Mary Fuller, thoughtfully, "but Joseph will
get well again; only think how much better he is since he came to the
Old Homestead."

That moment Joseph came in from the garden, where he had been walking
by himself, for the day was fine, and he loved to gratify his eye for
colors, even among the vegetable beds and coarse garden flowers, and
had been quietly enjoying them till the dusk drove him in-doors.

Mary looked toward him wistfully. She remembered that for some days he
had seemed sad and preoccupied, going alone by himself and drawing
only sad strains from his violin.

"Aunt Hannah, I am glad you are here," said the youth, moving slowly
toward his seat by the stand; "I want to talk a little with you!"

Mary had drawn back as he came in; there was no candle lighted, and
she was lost in shadow.

As he spoke, Mary started and would have gone out, but aunt Hannah
extended her hands to prevent it, and the youth sat down sighing
heavily, doubtless unconscious of her presence. Two or three times, as
was his habit when thoughtful, he drew the slender fingers of his
right hand through his hair, scattering the curls back on his temples.
At length he spoke, but with hesitation.

"Aunt!"

"Well, Joseph!" and the old lady began to knit.

"Aunt, I come to say"--He paused, and drew the hand once or twice
across his forehead, as if to sweep aside some inward pain. Aunt
Hannah remained silent, knitting diligently.

"I must go away from here, aunt; you have given me shelter when I most
needed it. Now I must take to the world again."

Mary listened with a sinking heart and parted lips that grew cold and
white with each word. At last a wild sob arose in her throat, and the
veins upon her forehead swelled with the effort she made to suppress
it.

"You wish to leave us, then?" questioned aunt Hannah, coldly, "and
why?"

"My life is idle here, utterly idle and dependent. God did not smite
all the pride from my soul when he took my father. I cannot live on
the toil of two old people whom my own hands should support."

"But you are welcome Joseph; and we love to have you with us."

"I know it--still, this should make me only more anxious to relieve
your generosity of its burden."

"This is not all," said aunt Hannah, mildly, "you keep the principal
reason back for leaving us, tell me what it is?"

"Perhaps I ought--though the reason I have given should be enough.
Yes, aunt, there is another motive--do not laugh at my folly, that I
cannot dwarf myself and become a helpless nonentity, without a
struggle to grasp the blessings so much desired by other men. It has
been a happy time that I have known at the Old Homestead, still what
has it secured to me but unrest, and such disquiet as will follow me
through life, unless I work out a destiny for myself like other men?"

He broke off, hesitating for words, and a faint blush stole over his
face even in the darkness.

Aunt Hannah felt his embarrassment, and had compassion on him.

"I know all about it," she said, quietly, "you love Mary Fuller. She
is a good girl. Why not?"

"Why not?" exclaimed the youth, passionately, "I am penniless? Nay, it
is more than probable that I may never be really strong again."

"That is God's work, but no fault of yours!"

"But how can I support a wife? I who cannot earn bread for myself?"

"You wish to leave Mary then?"

"_Wish_ to leave her! Do the angels wish to flee from paradise, when
all its flowers are in blossom? No, bear with me, good aunt. It may be
folly, but, I have some power. Let me try it. Every year sends a troop
of persons to our country who turn their talent into gold. Why should
not I?"

"And what would you do then?" inquired the old lady.

"What should I do!" exclaimed the youth, with enthusiasm. "Why, return
to you with the money I had earned, and, instead of a burden, become a
protector to your old age."

I can not work.

If you want me for my ticket, I will meet as soon as I heal ... The
butler contemplated that ruin, and not found much in life that was
there. - How is your mind?

- Asked again. - I have twenty pesos still ... On Saturday I gave ...
... I am very sick - you know well that while your account is not
paid, you must remain. ...

Down you can die. Curate here, and fix your mind away. ¿Curarse a
pernicious fever, where it acquired? Certainly not, but that is measurable
can not return, and the butler preferred debtor distant man dead.
Podeley had never ceased to fulfill all, only haughtiness that
allows your employer to a measurable size. - No I care whether or
not you've left to meet!

- said the butler .-- Pay yourself first, and then we'll see! This
injustice to logic and he created the desire for revenge
quickly. It was installed with Caye, whose spirit he knew well,
and both have decided to escape on Sunday. But the next day, Friday,
there was an unusual movement in the Obraje. - There you are! - Cried
the butler, face Podeley .- Last night, three have escaped ...

Is that what you like, no? Those players were also! Like you! But before
going to explode here, leaving the plate! And much care, you
and all who are listening! Ya know! The decision to flee, and its
dangers, for which the monthly needs all its strength, is able to
contain more than a pernicious fever.

On Sunday, moreover, had already arrived, and with false maneuvers
Wash clothes, simulated guitarreos at the ranch of one, the monitoring
could be circumvented, and Caye Podeley and were suddenly a
thousand meters from the station .

While not feel persecuted, not leave the bite, walked Podeley wrong.
And yet ...

The peculiar resonance trájoles forest, far away, a hoarse voice: - At
the head! Get both!

And one time after emerging from a bend of the bite, the foreman and
three laborers running. The hunt began. Caye cocked his gun while
moving. - Entrégate, Ana!

- Gritóles foreman. - Go in the bush - Podeley said .-- I do not have
to force my machete. -- come back or throw you!

- came another voice. - When closer ...-- Caye began winchester .--
A bullet went whistling by the bite. - Get in!

- Caye shouted to his companion. - And parapets behind a tree, unloaded
five shots into the past of his revolver.

An acute clamor "said, while another bullet winchester made the jump
from the tree bark. - Entrégate or I will leave the head ...!

- Go no further! - called Caye Podeley .-- I go to a. ..

And after new download, enter the woods.

The chase, arrested a moment by the explosion, lanzáronse rabid
forward, rifles, blow after winchester coup, the probable course
of the fugitives. 100 meters from the bite, and parallel to it, and
Caye Podeley were walking away, bent to the ground to avoid the
vines.

The pursuers as assumed, but as in the mountain, which has one
hundred attacks against a probability of being stopped by a bullet
in the middle of the forehead, the foreman was satisfied with salvos
of winchester howls and challenging.

In addition, the shots missed today had nice white Thursday night ...
The danger had passed. The fugitives sat, exhausted. Podeley wrapped
the poncho, and leaning on the back of his companion, suffered two
terrible hours Chucho, the backlash of that effort.

Continued the flight, always in sight of the bite, and when night
came, at last , encamped.

"To-morrow will be the tenth," answered Mary.

"Stay together while I go talk with Isabel." With these words the old
woman went up stairs feebly, as if her tears had swept all the
strength from her frame.

Mary and her lover sat down by the hearth and fell into a sweet
fragmentary conversation. Soft low words and broken sentences, the
overflow of two hearts brimful of happiness alone, passed between
them. A strange timidity crept over them. Neither dared approach the
subject of a separation, though both were saddened by it.

Aunt Hannah came down at last, calmer, and with more of her usual cold
manner.

"Help me," said Mary, appealing to her; "oh! aunt, persuade him to
stay with us!"

"To-morrow will be time enough," was the answer. "Go away, now, and
God bless you both!"

Never in her whole life had the voice of aunt Hannah sounded so deep
with meaning, so solemn in its earnestness. It was seldom that she
ever blessed any one aloud, or entered, save passively, into the
devotions of the family--now her benediction had the energy of an
earnest soul in it. The very tones of her voice were changed. She
seemed to have thrown off the icy crust from her heart, and breathed
deeper for it.

Mary and Joseph went out, and sat down together in the starlight, that
fell softly upon them through the apple boughs. They had so many
things to say, and confessions to make; each was timidly anxious to
search the heart of the other, and read all the sweet hidden mysteries
that seemed fathomless there.

Meanwhile aunt Hannah went into the out-room--that in which her sister
Anna died, and kneeling down, with her hands pressed on the bottom of
a chair, broke into a passion so deep and earnest that her whole frame
shook with the agony of her struggle. She arose at length and began to
walk the floor, wringing her hands and moaning as if in pain. Thus she
toiled and struggled in prayer all night, for it was the anniversary
of her sister's anguish and death. Many a softening influence had
crept into that frozen nature, with the young persons who brought
their joys and their sorrows beneath her roof, and now came the solemn
breaking up of her heart. She learned the true method of atonement in
the stillness of that nightwatch. It was the regeneration of a soul.

When the day broke, she stole up to Isabel Chester's room, and kissed
her pallid cheeks as she slept. "Be comforted," she said, smiling down
upon the unconscious face; "be comforted, for the day of your joy is
at hand."


CHAPTER XLIX.

THE DOUBLE BIRTH-DAY.


  Brother awake--my soul is strong with pain--
    And humbled with a night of solemn prayer,
  Never--oh, never, can I rest again,
    Till restitution lifts me from despair!

When aunt Hannah entered uncle Nathan's room he was sound asleep, with
a smile upon his half-open mouth, and two large arms folded lovingly
over his head, as if a sweet morning nap were the most, exquisite
enjoyment known to him. For a moment aunt Hannah stood by the bed-side
with her eyes, full of dark trouble, fixed upon his serene face. When
had she slept so tranquilly? would she ever know an hour of innocent,
child-like slumber like that again?

"Nathan--brother Nathan," she said, in a husky voice that aroused the
old man from its very strangeness; "get up--I have something for you
to do."

"Why, Hannah," said the old man, rubbing his eyes like a great fat
child, "am I late? what is the matter? just give me my clothes there,
and I'll be up before you can get the breakfast on the table. I'm very
sorry, very sorry, indeed; but somehow, I couldn't seem to get asleep,
last night, tired as I was--you know what night it was. Old times keep
me awake nights, Hannah, I think so much just now of poor little
Anna!"

"It isn't late, Nathan," answered the sister, still in her hoarse,
unnatural voice, "but I want you to go up the street, and ask our
minister to come here at ten o'clock."

"The minister! why, what for, sister Hannah? You ain't getting
anxious, nor nothing--I thought the day of regeneration had come, long
ago, with both of us."

"Do not ask me questions, now, brother, but get up and go my errand."

"Yes, yes, of course," answered uncle Nat, eyeing the pale face before
him, anxiously; "I'll do anything that's best."

"When you have seen the minister, go down to Mrs. Farnham's, and ask
them all to come--Mr. Farnham, his mother, and Salina. After that call
for Judge Sharp."

"Do you want them at ten?"

"Yes!"

Aunt Hannah went out, and from that hour till after nine, was shut up
alone in the out-room. The family sat down to breakfast without her,
marvelling why she chose to fast, that morning, all but uncle
Nathan--he remembered that it was the anniversary of his sister's
death; and when he came in from the performance of his errands, there
was a gentle look of tenderness on his face that made those around
long to comfort him.

After breakfast aunt Hannah came forth, still very pale, but with a
look of serene resolution that no one had ever observed on her face
before.

"Children," she said, addressing Joseph and Mary Fuller, "tell me,
once again, that you love one another."

"We do--we do?" cried the young pair, lifting their faces, full of
holy sunshine, to hers, while their hands crept together, and
intertwined unconsciously.

"And you would be glad to marry this girl, Joseph?"

"Marry her!" exclaimed the youth, trembling from head to foot, "how
dare I--how can I?"

"Answer me, Joseph, yes or no, would it make you happy, if within an
hour, this girl could be your wife, to live with you, and love you for
ever and ever?"

"So happy," cried the youth, flushing red to the temples, "so happy
that I dare not think of it."

"And you, Mary Fuller?" she questioned, moving close to the shrinking
girl, and speaking in a low voice, impelled to gentleness by womanly
compassion.

"Oh, do not ask me, dear, dear aunt! you know how it is with me, I
have not dared to think of this."

Aunt Hannah bent down, and kissed that portion of the burning forehead
which Mary's hands had left uncovered.

Mary started, and lifted her moist eyes in amazement. Scarcely in her
life had she seen that cold woman kiss any one before.

Aunt Hannah looked kindly into her eyes, and laying a hand on her
head, addressed Joseph.

"This child is not beautiful, my son," she said, "but she has
something in her face, this moment, worth all the beauty in the
world."

"I know it; I feel the sunshine of her presence," answered the youth.

Before dying here. Nebel became upset all day, and decided to
live far away you can not see Lydia and her mother in more than
two diseased poor.

But in the evening, and as the beasts that begin at that time to
sharpen the nails, the zeal of men began to relax in the waist
lasos chills.

Ate early because the mother, broken, wanted to lie down at once.
There was no means to take only milk. - Oh!

What a revulsion! I can not pass. And want to sacrifice the last years
of my life, which could now die happy? Lidia did not wink. Nebel had
spoken to a few words, and only at the end of his coffee eyes stuck
on it, but fell Lidia yours right away.

Four hours later without noise Nebel opened the door of Lydia. -
Who is!

- the voice sounded suddenly azorica. - Me - Nebel muttered aloud just
sensible.

A movement of clothing, such as a person who suddenly sits up in bed,
he followed his words, and silence reigned again. But when Nebel's hand
touched his arm in the warm darkness, the body shook, then a
serious jolt. * * * * * Then, inert beside the woman who had known
love before he arrived, went to innermost soul of the Nebel, the
pride of his teenage saint not to have ever played, not stealing a
kiss or even a creature who looked radiant with candor.

Thought in the words of Dostojewsky, which until then had not
understood: "There is nothing more beautiful and more strengthened
in life, remember that a cigar."

Nebel had saved, that memory unsullied, immaculate purity of his
eighteen years, and now there, mired up to the cup on a bed
of a servant ... then felt two tears on his neck heavy, silent.

She in turn remember ... And the tears from Lydia continued one after
the other as a watering abhorrent to the grave of their only dream
of happiness.

II For ten days continued in common life, though Nebel was almost
all day outside.

By tacit agreement, he and Lidia were rarely alone, even at night and
returned to see, even then spent a long time silent.
His mother was to give up her trust
as associate guardian, and for the first time in his life, the young
man would have a right to question and act for himself.

The counsellor whom Mrs. Farnham had summoned from the city--a shrewd,
unscrupulous lawyer, was present with his accounts. The young man held
these documents in his hand, with an angry flush upon his brow.

"And so this testament left me still a slave!" he exclaimed,
passionately. "In all things where a man should be free as thought, I
am bound eternally."

"You were only required not to marry against this lady's consent,"
answered the lawyer; "in all things else, as I am informed, this great
property, subject to the lady's dower of course, was left to your
control."

"In all things else!" exclaimed the youth, bitterly. "Why, this is
everything."

"Certainly, certainly," answered the lawyer, "you see now the great
self-sacrifice made by this inestimable lady, when she destroyed the
will, leaving you encumbered only with a moral obligation"

"Which she knew to be fifty times as binding," said Farnham, glancing
sternly at his mother.

"Yes, yes; I knew that your sense of honor would be stronger than
fifty legal documents like that; I depended on your generosity,
Frederick; I drew a medium between the legal tyrant that your papa
made me, and the powerless mother. Fred is noble, I argued; he loved
his father; he will not bow to the law, but will fling all this
fortune back into my lap. I will burn the will and trust to his sense
of duty. There was a medium, sir, you comprehend all its delicate
outlines, I trust."

This was said blandly to the lawyer, who bowed with a look of profound
appreciation.

Farnham stood up firmly. "Mother, in this thing there is no medium
between right and wrong. If my father left his property to me, his
only child, on these conditions they must be enforced." He hesitated
an instant, the crimson mounted to his temples, and he added in a
clear, low voice, "madam, will you say upon your solemn word of honor,
that this was the purport of the will you have burned?"

Mrs. Farnham turned white, her eyes fell, she trembled beneath the
searching glance of her son.

"I--I cannot remember word for word, but as surely as I stand
here, the property would have never been yours by the will,
without--without"--

"Enough," said the young man, "enough that you have said it once, I
submit to the will of my father."

"And you give up this girl. Dear, dear, Frederick!"

"No, madam; I give up the property. You have made us equal; Isabel
would have refused me with this wealth; she will not find the heart to
reject me now."

"Frederick, you are--yes--if this gentleman permits, I must say
it--you are an ingrate!"

"My guardian must be informed of this will and its conditions," said
Farnham.

"I expected this!" exclaimed Mrs. Farnham, addressing the lawyer; "no
regard for his mother, no respect for his dear father's memory. You
see, my friend, what a trial I have had!"

The lawyer looked keenly at young Farnham.

"You had better let this subject rest," he said; "it has been well
managed so far; leave it with this good lady and myself."

"There seems no need of management here," was the firm answer; "my
father's will must be carried out."

"Let me act between you and your gentle mamma, dear sir. She must
yield a little, I see. You have a fancy, I am told, for the young lady
who has been so long an object of her bounty. Suppose your mother can
be induced to withdraw her objections to the match, on condition that
you let this matter of the will rest. It is so unpleasant to a
sensitive nature like hers, this raking up of buried troubles. Consent
to let them rest as they are, and I will undertake to gain consent to
your marriage with this--I must admit--very beautiful young creature.
Say, is it settled?"

"Not yet, or thus," answered the young man, firmly; "I have an
alternative, and I solemnly believe the only one which will win this
noble girl to become my wife. Instead of embezzling my father's
property, which does not belong to me, if I marry her, I can renounce
that which brings so cruel an incumbrance."

"But you will not," said the lawyer.

"Yes, if it is necessary to gain Isabel Chester, I will!" answered the
youth.

"In that case you know the property will become your mother's!"

The young man looked suddenly and searchingly on his mother. His heart
rose indignantly. He could not force himself to respect that woman!

"Have you decided?" inquired the lawyer, smiling.

"Not till I have seen Isabel," answered the youth, looking at his
watch. "Madam, it is half-past nine, and I think we promised that old
man to be at his Homestead at ten; Isabel Chester is there. In her
presence you shall hear my decision."

Mrs. Farnham looked at the lawyer, who almost imperceptibly bent his
head, and she rang the bell for Salina to bring her shawl and bonnet.

Directly the strong-minded one came with an oriental cashmere thrown
over one arm, and a costly bonnet perched on her right hand.

"It's time for us to be a-going if we ever expect to get there, now I
tell you," she said, tossing the lady's garments into her lap, and
tying her own calico hood with superfluous energy; "aunt Hannah is
punctual as the clock, and expects others to be so, too. Come!"

The lawyer had risen, and was quietly fitting a pair of dark gloves to
his hands directly in range of Mrs. Farnham's eye who could not choose
but remark the contrast between those white hands and the dark kid,
while she coquetted with the folds of her shawl.

"Come!" repeated Salina, thrusting her arm through that of the lawyer,
and bearing him forward in spite of all opposition. "Just a beau
apiece. Mr. Farnham will take care of the old lady, and I can get
along with you. Perhaps, however, the adventure of the two robinson
more formal, have less forest as another theater Sunday.

Loopholes here lead to limits on contingency missions, and to this
end dragged Gabriel Benincasa proud of their boot-strom. Benincasa,
having finished his studies in public accounting, he felt
tremendous desire to know the life of the jungle. That his temperament
was not that, but it was a peaceful boy, chubby face and uniformly
pink, because of great prosperity. Accordingly, sane enough
to prefer tea with milk and pastries at random and who knows what
hellish meal the forest.

But just as the bachelor who was always wise, cree of their duty, on
the eve of their wedding, say goodbye to life with a free night's
orgy with their friends, like Benincasa oiled wanted to honor her
life with two or three intense shock of life.

And that is why back up to the Paraná Obrajes, with its famous boot-strom.
Just out of Corrientes, heavy boots had their shoes, because the
alligators from the shore and warming the landscape. But despite this,
the accountant took care of much of his shoe, eliminating scratches
and dirty contacts.

Thus Obraje reached his godfather, and at the time it took to contain
the desenfado his godson. - Where you going now - he asked
surprised. - At the mountain I walk a little - Benincasa answered,
just hung winchester the shoulder. - But unhappy! are unable to take
a step. Follow the bite, if you want ...

Or better yet, leave the gun and tomorrow I will accompany you for
a pawn.

Benincasa resigned. However, it was up to the edge of the forest and
stopped.

Vaguely tried a step inside, and was still.

Metióse his hands in his pockets, and looked carefully that inextricable
tangle, whistling winds weakly truncated.

After seeing the forest again on either side, he returned very disappointed.
The next day, however, toured the bite for about a central league,
and while his gun again fast asleep, Benincasa not regret the trip.
The beasts would come gradually.

They came for the second night - but a character.

Farnham,
said in a low stern voice,

"Have you any objections?"

"_Me_!" exclaimed the lady with a sneer. "What do I care about them!"

"Then you are willing that the ceremony goes on?" persisted the
singular woman, without a change of voice or attitude.

"What earthly objection can I have? of course the ceremony may go on,
what are these people to me?"

The ceremony went on, and with a deep breath of such joy as few human
beings ever know, the husband and wife sat down, almost faint with
excess of emotion.

Isabel Chester had been sitting apart from the group, passive and
feeble, but now and then lifting her great mournful eyes with a look
of unuttered misery to the face of young Farnham.

The first of these eloquent glances brought him to her side.

"Isabel, I will give up all, I came to renounce everything but you,"
he whispered.

She shook her head mournfully and glanced with a shudder towards Mrs.
Farnham.

"Poor or rich I cannot marry her son. It may kill me, but my oath, my
oath! let me rest, let me rest"--

She drew her hand wearily across her forehead and her bright eyes
filled with tears.

"But you are sorry for this oath, my Isabel?"

"Sorry, it is killing me."

He looked down upon the white folds of her muslin wrapper, brightened
as they were by the crimson glow of a dressing-gown that flowed over
it. He saw how thin she had grown, how like wax her delicate hand lay
upon the crimson of her dress, and how mournfully large her eyes had
become.

"This shall not be, it is madness!" he exclaimed aloud and
passionately. "Mother I"--

"Hush!" said aunt Hannah, silencing him with her uplifted hand, "let
_me_ speak!"

She moved a step forward, standing almost in the centre of the room,
with Mrs. Farnham and her lawyer friend on the left, and the clergyman
who stood near the newly married pair on her right. All had a full
view of her face. Her features seemed harder than ever--the expression
on them was stern as granite. Her eyes burned with a settled purpose,
and her whole person was imposing.

For a moment, when all eyes were bent upon her she seemed to falter;
you could see by the choking in her throat and a spasmodic gripe of
her fingers, that the struggle for her first words was agony.

But she did speak, and her voice was so hoarse that it struck those
around her with amazement; nay, a look of awe stole over the faces
turned so earnestly towards her.

"Twenty-one years ago last night, I committed a great wrong in the
face of God and the law," she said; "that woman," here she lifted her
long, boney finger and pointed it towards Mrs. Farnham, "that woman
had wronged me and the being I loved better than myself, and this
filled me with a heathenish thirst for vengeance upon her."

"Me! me! why, did you ever--I never wronged a creature in my whole
life--you know how bland and gentle I always am!" whimpered that lady.

"Be still!" interposed aunt Hannah in the same deep voice. "The
husband of that woman was betrothed to me in my youth."

"I'll never believe that, never--never!" cried Mrs. Farnham, flushing
up angrily.

"Peace, I say, and do not interrupt me again. My parents died leaving
Anna, a little girl pretty as an angel, for Nathan and I to take care
of; she was the dearest, loveliest little thing."

"I'll take my Bible oath of that," cried Salina, reddening suddenly
around the eyes, "I never set eyes on anything half so purty in my
life."

"I gave up all for this child, and so did Nathan; we both agreed to
live single for her sake and be parents to her."

"More fools you," muttered Salina, "as if uncle Nat's wife couldn't
and wouldn't have taken care of a dozen such children, that is, if
he'd only had sense enough to choose a smart--but what's the use, it's
all over now."

This was said in a muttered undertone, and aunt Hannah went on without
heeding it.

"It was a hard struggle, for I was young then, and loved the man I
expected to spend my life with--Nathan too"--

"No matter about me, Hannah, don't mention anything I did; it was hard
at the time, but one gets used to almost everything," cried the old
man, wiping the tears from his eyes with a cotton handkerchief that
Salina handed to him, her own eyes flushing redder and redder from
sympathy.

"I need not speak of him," commenced aunt Hannah, with one look at her
brother's face. "He did his duty; if I had done mine as well, this
hour of shame would not have brought me where I am.

There was originally a clear allusion to the emotional rantings of the
ill with great touch around the house, as soon as I was cooperating
possible, as in those twenty days was not my worry less, think of that
discretion I had to show in this first interview.

Each mouth was to ask, though. - And you - I said smiling mother -
has rested all of the troubles that we gave - Oh, was little! ... And
yet - also finished laughing - would be willing to bear again ... María
Elvira was smiled on them. - Vd. Yes, but I do not, I assure
you! The mother watched with sorrow: - Alas, my daughter! When I
think of the nonsense that you have been ... Anyway - again I welcome
you .-- now - we might say - of the house, and I assure you that
it feels very much Luis María.

The alluded me he put his hand on the shoulder and offered me
cigarettes. - Smoke, smoke, and ignore. -- But Luis Mary - the mother
reproved him, half-serious - to hear that anyone would believe
you're telling lies to Duran! - No, Mama, what you say this is
perfectly fine, but I understand Durán.

What I Luis María understand was that he wanted to cut more or less
sosas pleasantries, but do not thanked at all.

Meanwhile, how many times could, without attracting attention, eyes fixed
on Mary Elvira. At last! And had before me, sound, sound good. I had
hoped and feared that moment forward. There was a beloved shade, or
more precisely, two eyes and thirty centimeters of arm, the rest was
a long-white. And from that darkness, like a cocoon taciturn, was
lifted that contained splendid fresh, cheerful and indifferent, I
do not know.

I watched as you look at a friend's house, where we need to stop a
second eye, if there is something or a sentence says smiling. But
nothing more.

Not the slightest trace of the past, not even looking for affection,
which I had counted as the final triumph of my game. It was a
subject - let alone subject, but be - completely unknown to her.

And think now in the grace that I would remember while watching that
night, those same eyes that I had been frivolous now, eight of my
fingers - And when you're healthy ... still want me?

Farnham's heir must be kept warm,
while ours lay wailing and shivering in my lap.

"I was left alone amid the lightning and thunder and the noise of the
rain; my poor dead sister seemed to call out from the clouds, that I
should help her spirit free from the raging of the tempest--I think
all this worked on my brain, for I sat and looked on the babe with a
stillness that seemed to last for months. I thought of her broken
life--of the poverty she had felt--of that which must follow her
child. I thought of that woman, so paltry, so mean, so utterly
unworthy of care, pampered with wealth, comforted with love, while my
sister, so much her better in everything had died of neglect, I
thought of many things, not connectedly, but in a wild bitter mood
that made me fierce under the wrongs that had been heaped upon us. It
is impossible for me to say how the idea came first, but I resolved
that her child should not be the sufferer. His father was miserably
poor, but he would not, I knew, give up his child. I did not reason,
but these thoughts flashed through my brain, and with them came an
impulse to give her child the destiny which Anna's should escape. I
tore a blanket from the bed; poor Anna did not need it then. I wrapped
it about the child and went forth into the storm. The lightning blazed
along my path, and the thunder boomed over me like minute guns when a
funeral is in motion.

"I knew the house well, and stole in through the back door onward to
the half-lighted chamber of Farnham's wife. Her son lay in a sumptuous
crib under a cloud of lace. I laid Anna's babe on the floor and took
this one from its silken nest. My hands were cold and trembling, but
the dresses were soon changed, and in a few minutes I went out with
Farnham's heir rolled up in my blanket, and Anna's child sleeping
sweetly in the cradle that I had robbed."

Mrs. Farnham started up, pale and trembling.

"What, what! my child rolled up in a blanket! a mean, coarse blanket!"

"Be still," commanded aunt Hannah; "your child has had nothing but
coarse blankets all his life; but he is all the better for that; ask
him if I have not toiled that he and the good man who brought him up
might never want; but I was a feeble woman and could do no more--a
woman weighed down by a sense of the crime which I might repent of
daily, but could not force myself to confess."

"But my child! where is my child, you horrible kidnapper?" cried Mrs.
Farnham. "I will know--but remember, if he's been brought up among
common people and all that, I never will own him."

"Your son," said aunt Hannah, going gently toward Joseph Esmond, and
laying her hand on his shoulder. "This is your son; he is worthy of
any mother's love."

"My son, and married to that thing! I never will own him, don't ask
me, I never will!" cried the excited woman, eyeing the youth,
disdainfully. "He is handsome enough, but I cannot own him for my
son!"

"Mother," said the youth, rising and coming forward, with both hands
extended. "Mother, why will you not love me?"

She had gathered up her shawl, haughtily, and was about to leave the
room; but his voice struck upon her like a spell; the folds of her
shawl dropt downward, and for once, yielding to a warm, natural
impulse, she burst into a passion of tears, and received the youth in
her arms.

"Oh, mother, bear with me; you would, did you know how I have pined
for a mother's love."

She did not speak, but kissed his forehead two or three times, and sat
down subdued, with gentler affections than she had ever shown before.

"Not only to me, mother, but to my wife. Will you not love my wife?"

Mary was drawn forward, for one arm of her husband was around her, and
stood with downcast eyes and flushed cheeks, waiting for the repulse,
which seemed inevitable.

Mrs. Farnham looked at him, and something of the old scorn curled her
lip. Mary slowly lifted her eyes, full of meek solicitude, and even
her mother-in-law's heart was touched.

"Well, well, make him a good wife, and I'll try to love you."

"I," said the youth, whom we have known as young Farnham--"I have no
longer a mother."

"No," said uncle Nat, arising and opening his arms; "but you have an
old uncle and aunt that will divide their last crust with you. Sister,
sister, he looks like Anna, now, with the tears in his eyes."

Aunt Hannah turned; it was the first time in her life that she had
ever looked her nephew full in the face, and now a consciousness of
the wrong she had done made her timid; she stood before him with
downcast eyes, trembling and afraid.

"My aunt, will you not look upon me?"

"I have wronged you," she said. "How will you bear hard work and
want?"

"Ask Isabel if she thinks I cannot bear them with her."

Isabel stood up; her strength came back with the sudden joy that
overwhelmed her, and she held forth her hand to the youth, radiant as
an angel. He led her towards Mrs. Farnham.

"Mother, you will not repulse us, now, when we are alike in condition.
Give us your blessing before we go forth on our struggle with the
world."

All that was good in that woman's nature broke forth with the first
gush of true maternal love; for a moment she forgot herself and held
out her hand.

"Oh, Fred! I hate to give you up altogether; but, then, I really am
not your mother. Don't you see it in his bright hair? in those
beautiful eyes?--we ought to have known he was my son by his face.
But, only think of that horrid woman's bringing him up among all those
low people; but she could not make him like them. There is a medium in
blood, you see. But, when, you took so naturally to our life; really,
I don't see my way clear yet!"

"But won't you speak to Isabel, mother?"

"Isabel! dear me, I should not know her. How do you do, my dear?
Certainly, it's very proper and right that you should marry Fred, now!
It's quite like a romance. Isn't it? Of course, all my objections are
removed."

"And my vow," whispered Isabel; "thank God, we are as free as two wild
birds!"

"And as poor," answered Frederick, smiling, while a shade of sadness
settled on Joseph Esmond's face.

"Not quite so bad as that," said Judge Sharp, stepping forward with a
blackened and scorched paper in his hand, "Young man, on this your
common birth-day, you have attained legal manhood. By Mr. Farnham's
will, which has but lately come into my hands, I find myself called
upon to resign my guardianship over you both; for--with the exception
of his widow's dower, and ten thousand dollars left to this young
lady, Isabel Chester, with direction that she should be brought up and
educated in his own family--Mr. At least that is lucky ...-- whispered,
and bitter at all. - Why - I asked. "No answer, I violently shrugged
his shoulders and looked the other way. She followed my sight. He spent
a minute. - Why?

- Insisted, with that stubbornness and heavy distracted by women, when
they begin to be perfectly comfortable with a man.

I was now, and it was during the brief moments that followed,
standing with the knee on silloncito.

Farnham as
she shrunk cowering in a corner of the room. Even Judge Sharp avoided
looking that way, and Salina planted herself before the pallid woman,
expanding her scant skirts, till they swelled out like a half-open
umbrella, in a prompt effort to screen that guilty form.

"Young men!" and as he spoke Judge Sharp assumed a look of more than
ordinary dignity. "Thank God, that in this great change, he left you
to the influences which have best developed the powers within you.
Now, go forth, my children, with the fair wives you have chosen, and
always remember, that the trials of early life should give strength
and power to manhood."

  THE END.