]

2 THE TRUNK.

THE TRUNK has two important cavities. The upper part, or _chest_,
contains the heart and the lungs, and the lower part, or _abdomen_,
holds the stomach, liver, kidneys, and other organs (Fig. 31). The
principal bones are those of the _spine_, the _ribs_, and the
_hips_.

THE SPINE consists of twenty-four bones, between which are placed pads of
cartilage. [Footnote: These pads vary in thickness from one fourth to one
half an inch. They become condensed by the weight they bear during the
day, so that we are somewhat shorter at evening than in the morning.
Their elasticity causes them to resume their usual size during the night,
or when we lie down for a time.] A canal is hollowed out of the column
for the safe passage of the spinal cord. (See Fig. 50.) Projections
(processes) at the back and on either side are abundant for the attachment
of the muscles. The packing acts as a cushion to prevent any jar from
reaching the brain when we jump or run, while the double curve of the
spine also tends to disperse the force of a fall. Thus on every side the
utmost caution is taken to guard that precious gem in its casket.

THE PERFECTION OF THE SPINE surpasses all human contrivances. Its various
uses seem a bundle of contradictions. A chain of twenty-four bones is made
so stiff that it will bear a heavy burden, and so flexible that it will
bend like rubber; yet, all the while, it transmits no shock, and even
hides a delicate nerve within that would thrill with the slightest touch.
Resting upon it, the brain is borne without a tremor; and, clinging to it,
the vital organs are carried without fear of harm.

FIG. 7.

[Illustration: B, _the first cervical vertebra, the atlas;_ A, _the
atlas, and the second cervical vertebra, the axis;_ e, _the odontoid
process;_ c, _the foramen._]

THE SKULL ARTICULATES with (is jointed to) the spine in a peculiar manner.
On the top of the upper vertebra (atlas [Footnote: Thus called because,
as, in ancient fable, the god Atlas supported the world on his shoulders,
so in the body this bone bears the head.]) are two little hollows
(_a_, _b_, Fig. 7), nicely packed and lined with the synovial
membrane, into which fit the corresponding projections on the lower part
of the skull, and thus the head can rock to and fro. The second vertebra
(axis) has a peg, _e_, which projects through a hole, _c_, in
the first.

FIG. 8.

[Illustration: _The Thorax or Chest._ a, _the sternum;_ b _to_ c, _the
true ribs;_ d _to_ h, _the false ribs;_ g, h, _the floating ribs;_ i, k,
_the dorsal vertebræ._]

The surfaces of both vertebræ are so smooth that they easily glide on each
other, and thus, when we move the head side wise, the atlas turns around
the peg, _e_, of the axis.

THE RIBS, also twenty-four in number, are arranged in pairs on each side
of the chest. At the back, they are all attached to the spine. In front,
the upper seven pairs are tied by cartilages to the breastbone (sternum);
three are fastened to each other and to the cartilage above, and two, the
floating ribs, are loose.

The natural form of the chest is that of a cone diminishing upward. But,
owing to the tightness of the clothing commonly worn, the reverse is often
the case. The long, slender ribs give lightness, [Footnote: If the chest
wall were in one bone thick enough to resist a blow, it would be unwieldy
and heavy As it is, the separate bones bound by cartilages yield
gradually, and diffuse the force among them all, and so are rarely
broken.] the arched form confers strength, and the cartilages impart
elasticity,--properties essential to the protection of the delicate organs
within, and to freedom of motion in respiration. (See note, p. 80.)

FIG. 9.

[Illustration: _The Pelvis._ a, _the sacrum;_ b, b, _the right
and the left innominatum._]

THE HIP BONES, called by anatomists the innominata, or nameless bones,
form an irregular basin styled the _pelvis_ (_pelvis_, a basin).
In the upper part, is the foot of the spinal column--a wedge-shaped bone
termed the _sacrum_ [Footnote: So called because it was anciently
offered in sacrifice.] (sacred), firmly planted here between the
widespreading and solid bones of the pelvis, like the keystone to an arch,
and giving a steady support to the heavy burden above.

3. THE LIMBS.

TWO SETS OF LIMBS branch from the trunk, viz.: the upper, and the lower.
They closely resemble each other. The arm corresponds to the thigh; the
forearm, to the leg; the wrist, to the ankle; the fingers, to the toes.
The fingers and the toes are so much alike that they receive the same
name, _digits_, while the several bones of both have also the common
appellation, _phalanges_. The differences which exist grow out of
their varying uses. The foot is characterized by strength; the hand, by
mobility.

FIG. 10.

[Illustration: _The Shoulder Joint._ a, _the clavicle;_ b,
_the scapula._]

1. THE UPPER LIMBS.--THE SHOULDER.--The bones of the shoulder are the
collar bone (clavicle), and the shoulder blade (scapula). The
_clavicle_ (_clavis_, a key) is a long, slender bone, shaped
like the Italic _f_. It is fastened at one end to the breastbone and
the first rib, and, at the other, to the shoulder blade. (See Fig. 1.) It
thus holds the shoulder joint out from the chest, and gives the arm
greater play. If it be removed or broken, the head of the arm bone will
fall, and the motions of the arm be greatly restricted. [Footnote: Animals
which use the forelegs only for support (as the horse, ox, etc.), do not
possess this bone. "It is found in those that dig, fly, climb and seize."]

THE SHOULDER BLADE is a thin, flat, triangular bone, fitted to the top and
back of the chest, and designed to give a foundation for the muscles of
the shoulder.

THE SHOULDER JOINT.--The arm bone, or _humerus_, articulates with the
shoulder blade by a ball-and-socket joint. Came Wealhtheow forth, queen
of Hrothgar, heedful of courtesy, gold-decked, greeting the guests in hall;
and the high-born lady handed the cup first to the East-Danes' heir
and warden, bade him be blithe at the beer-carouse, the land's beloved
one. Lustily took he banquet and beaker, battle-famed king.

Through the hall then went the Helmings' Lady, to younger and older
everywhere carried the cup, till come the moment when the ring-graced
queen, the royal-hearted, to Beowulf bore the beaker of mead.

She greeted the Geats' lord, God she thanked, in wisdom's words,
that her will was granted, that at last on a hero her hope could
lean for comfort in terrors.

The cup he took, hardy-in-war, from Wealhtheow's hand, and answer
uttered the eager-for-combat.
Beowulf spake, bairn of Ecgtheow: -- "This was my thought, when
my thanes and I bent to the ocean and entered our boat, that I would
work the will of your people fully, or fighting fall in death, in fiend's
gripe fast. I am firm to do an earl's brave deed, or end the days of this
life of mine in the mead-hall here." Well these words to the woman
seemed, Beowulf's battle-boast. -- Bright with gold the stately dame by her
spouse sat down.

Again, as erst, began in hall warriors' wassail and words of power, the
proud-band's revel, till presently the son of Healfdene hastened to seek
rest for the night; he knew there waited fight for the fiend in that
festal hall, when the sheen of the sun they saw no more, and dusk of
night sank darkling nigh, and shadowy shapes came striding on, wan
under welkin.

The first bone of
the thumb, standing apart from the rest, enjoys a special freedom of
motion, and adds greatly to the usefulness of the hand.

FIG. 12.

[Illustration: _Bones of the Hand and the Wrist._]

The first bone (Figs. 11, 12) of each finger is so attached to the
corresponding metacarpal bone as to move in several directions upon it,
but the other phalanges form hinge joints.

The fingers are named in order: the thumb, the index, the middle, the
ring, and the little finger. Their different lengths cause them to fit the
hollow of the hand when it is closed, and probably enable us more easily
to grasp objects of varying size. If the hand clasps a ball, the tips of
the fingers will be in a straight line.

The hand in its perfection belongs only to man. Its elegance of outline,
delicacy of mold, and beauty of color have made it the study of artists;
while its exquisite mobility and adaptation as a perfect instrument have
led many philosophers to attribute man's superiority even more to the hand
than to the mind. [Footnote: How constantly the hand aids us in explaining
or enforcing a thought! We affirm a fact by placing the hand as if we
would rest it firmly on a body; we deny by a gesture putting the false or
erroneous proposition away from us; we express doubt by holding the hand
suspended, as if hesitating whether to take or reject. When we part from
dear friends, or greet them again after long absence, the hand extends
toward them as if to retain, or to bring them sooner to us. If a recital
or a proposition is revolting, we reject it energetically in gesture as in
thought. In a friendly adieu we wave our good wishes to him who is their
object; but when it expresses enmity, by a brusque movement we sever every
tie. He had tested Hygelac's hardihood, the proud one's prowess, would prove
it no longer, defied no more those fighting-wanderers nor hoped from the
seamen to save his hoard, his bairn and his bride: so he bent him again,
old, to his earth-walls. Yet after him came with slaughter for Swedes
the standards of Hygelac o'er peaceful plains in pride advancing,
till Hrethelings fought in the fenced town. {39a} Then Ongentheow
with edge of sword, the hoary-bearded, was held at bay, and the
folk-king there was forced to suffer Eofor's anger.

--THE HIP--The thigh bone, or _femur_, is the
largest and necessarily the strongest in the skeleton, since at every step
it has to bear the weight of the whole body. It articulates with the hip
bone by a ball-and-socket joint. Unlike the shoulder joint, the cup here
is deep, thus affording less play, but greater strength. It fits so
tightly that the pressure of the air largely aids in keeping the bones in
place. [Footnote: In order to test this, a hole was bored through a hip
bone, so as to admit air into the socket, the thigh bone at once fell out
as far as the ligaments would permit. An experiment was also devised
whereby a suitably prepared hip joint was placed under the receiver of an
air pump. On exhausting the air, the weight of the femur caused it to drop
out of the socket, while the readmission of the air raised it to its
place. Without this arrangement, the adjacent muscles would have been
compelled to bear the additional weight of the thighbone every time it was
raised. Now the pressure of the air rids them of this unnecessary burden,
and hence they are less easily fatigued--WEBER] Indeed, when the muscles
are cut away, great force is required to detach the limbs.

THE KNEE is strengthened by the patella_, or kneepan (_patella_,
little dish), a chestnut-shaped bone firmly fastened over the joint.

The shin bone, or _tibia_, the large, triangular bone on the inner
side of the leg, articulates both with the femur and the foot by hinge
joints. The kneejoint is so made, however, as to admit of a slight rotary
motion when the limb is not extended.

