  But at Oxney Colne, on the borders of
Dartmoor, there were few to appreciate her, and it seemed as though she
herself had but little idea of carrying her talent further afield, so
that it might not remain for ever wrapped in a blanket.

She was a pretty girl, tall end slender, with dark eyes and black hair.
Her eyes were perhaps too round for regular beauty, and her hair was
perhaps too crisp; her mouth was large and expressive; her nose was
finely formed, though a critic in female form might have declared it to
be somewhat broad.  But her countenance altogether was wonderfully
attractive--if only it might be seen without that resolution for
dominion which occasionally marred it, though sometimes it even added
to her attractions.

It must be confessed on behalf of Patience Woolsworthy, that the
circumstances of her life had peremptorily called upon her to exercise
dominion.  She had lost her mother when she was sixteen, and had had
neither brother nor sister.  She had no neighbours near her fit either
from education or rank to interfere in the conduct of her life,
excepting always Miss La Smyrger.  Miss Le Smyrger would have done
anything for her, including the whole management of her morals and of
the parsonage household, had Patience been content with such an
arrangement.  But much as Patience had ever loved Miss Le Smyrger, she
was not content with this, and therefore she had been called on to put
forth a strong hand of her own.  She had put forth this strong hand
early, and hence had come the character which I am attempting to
describe.  But I must say on behalf of this girl, that it was not only
over others that she thus exercised dominion.  In acquiring that power
she had also acquired the much greater power of exercising rule over
herself.

But why should her father have been ignored in these family
arrangements?  Perhaps it may almost suffice to say, that of all living
men her father was the man best conversant with the antiquities of the
county in which he lived.  He was the Jonathan Oldbuck of Devonshire,
and especially of Dartmoor, without that decision of character which
enabled Oldbuck to keep his womenkind in some kind of subjection, and
probably enabled him also to see that his weekly bills did not pass
their proper limits.  Our Mr. Oldbuck, of Oxney Colne, was sadly
deficient in these.  As a parish pastor with but a small cure, he did
his duty with sufficient energy, to keep him, at any rate, from
reproach.  He was kind and charitable to the poor, punctual in his
services, forbearing with the farmers around him, mild with his brother
clergymen, and indifferent to aught that bishop or archdeacon might
think or say of him.  I do not name this latter attribute as a virtue,
but as a fact.  But all these points were as nothing in the known
character of Mr. Woolsworthy, of Oxney Colne.  He was the antiquarian
of Dartmoor.  That was his line of life.  It was in that capacity that
he was known to the Devonshire world; it was as such that he journeyed
about with his humble carpet-bag, staying away from his parsonage a
night or two at a time; it was in that character that he received now
and again stray visitors in the single spare bedroom--not friends asked
to see him and his girl because of their friendship--but men who knew
something as to this buried stone, or that old land-mark.  In all these
things his daughter let him have his own way, assisting and encouraging
him.  That was his line of life, and therefore she respected it.  But
in all other matters she chose to be paramount at the parsonage.

Mr. Woolsworthy was a little man, who always wore, except on Sundays,
grey clothes--clothes of so light a grey that they would hardly have
been regarded as clerical in a district less remote.  He had now
reached a goodly age, being full seventy years old; but still he was
wiry and active, and showed but few symptoms of decay.  His head was
bald, and the few remaining locks that surrounded it were nearly white.
But there was a look of energy about his mouth, and a humour in his
light grey eye, which forbade those who knew him to regard him
altogether as an old man.  - said the questioning -. I could not forget
one of my best friends, whose songbook also given by him, and I made
my delight worth reading to keep my soul and refine the Portuguese
language, which was the first to speak.

A pretty girl, I have said, was Patience Woolsworthy; and one,
too, in many ways remarkable.  She had taken her outlook into life,
weighing the things which she had and those which she had not, in a
manner very unusual, and, as a rule, not always desirable for a young
lady.  The things which she had not were very many.  She had not
society; she had not a fortune; she had not any assurance of future
means of livelihood; she had not high hope of procuring for herself a
position in life by marriage; she had not that excitement and pleasure
in life which she read of in such books as found their way down to
Oxney Colne Parsonage.  It would be easy to add to the list of the
things which she had not; and this list against herself she made out
with the utmost vigour.  The things which she had, or those rather
which she assured herself of having, were much more easily counted.
She had the birth and education of a lady, the strength of a healthy
woman, and a will of her own.  Such was the list as she made it out for
herself, and I protest that I assert no more than the truth in saying
that she never added to it either beauty, wit, or talent.

I began these descriptions by saying that Oxney Colne would, of all
places, be the best spot from which a tourist could visit those parts
of Devonshire, but for the fact that he could obtain there none of the
accommodation which tourists require.  A brother antiquarian might,
perhaps, in those days have done so, seeing that there was, as I have
said, a spare bedroom at the parsonage.  Any intimate friend of Miss Le
Smyrger's might be as fortunate, for she was equally well provided at
Oxney Combe, by which name her house was known.  But Miss Le Smyrger
was not given to extensive hospitality, and it was only to those who
were bound to her, either by ties of blood or of very old friendship,
that she delighted to open her doors.  As her old friends were very few
in number, as those few lived at a distance, and as her nearest
relations were higher in the world than she was, and were said by
herself to look down upon her, the visits made to Oxney Combe were few
and far between.

