"I thank you," said Florizel, once more addressing the functionary;
"I am sorry to have deranged you for so small a matter."

And he dismissed him with a movement of his hand.

"And now," added the Prince, turning to Francis, "give me the
diamond."

Without a word the casket was handed over.

"You have done right," said Florizel, "your sentiments have
properly inspired you, and you will live to be grateful for the
misfortunes of to-night.  A man, Mr. Scrymgeour, may fall into a
thousand perplexities, but if his heart be upright and his
intelligence unclouded, he will issue from them all without
dishonour.  Let your mind be at rest; your affairs are in my hand;
and with the aid of heaven I am strong enough to bring them to a
good end.  Follow me, if you please, to my carriage."

So saying the Prince arose and, having left a piece of gold for the
waiter, conducted the young man from the cafe and along the
Boulevard to where an unpretentious brougham and a couple of
servants out of livery awaited his arrival.

"This carriage," said he, "is at your disposal; collect your
baggage as rapidly as you can make it convenient, and my servants
will conduct you to a villa in the neighbourhood of Paris where you
can wait in some degree of comfort until I have had time to arrange
your situation.  You will find there a pleasant garden, a library
of good authors, a cook, a cellar, and some good cigars, which I
recommend to your attention.  Jerome," he added, turning to one of
the servants, "you have heard what I say; I leave Mr. Scrymgeour in
your charge; you will, I know, be careful of my friend."

Francis uttered some broken phrases of gratitude.

"It will be time enough to thank me," said the Prince, "when you
are acknowledged by your father and married to Miss Vandeleur."

And with that the Prince turned away and strolled leisurely in the
direction of Montmartre.  He hailed the first passing cab, gave an
address, and a quarter of an hour afterwards, having discharged the
driver some distance lower, he was knocking at Mr. Vandeleur's
garden gate.

It was opened with singular precautions by the Dictator in person.

"Who are you?" he demanded.

"You must pardon me this late visit, Mr. Vandeleur," replied the
Prince.

"Your Highness is always welcome," returned Mr. Vandeleur, stepping
back.

The Prince profited by the open space, and without waiting for his
host walked right into the house and opened the door of the SALON.
Two people were seated there; one was Miss Vandeleur, who bore the
marks of weeping about her eyes, and was still shaken from time to
time by a sob; in the other the Prince recognised the young man who
had consulted him on literary matters about a month before, in a
club smoking-room.

"Good evening, Miss Vandeleur," said Florizel; "you look fatigued.
Mr. Rolles, I believe?  I hope you have profited by the study of
Gaboriau, Mr. Rolles."

But the young clergyman's temper was too much embittered for
speech; and he contented himself with bowing stiffly, and continued
to gnaw his lip.

"To what good wind," said Mr. Vandeleur, following his guest, "am I
to attribute the honour of your Highness's presence?"

"I am come on business," returned the Prince; "on business with
you; as soon as that is settled I shall request Mr. Rolles to
accompany me for a walk.  Mr. Rolles," he added with severity, "let
me remind you that I have not yet sat down."

The clergyman sprang to his feet with an apology; whereupon the
Prince took an armchair beside the table, handed his hat to Mr.
Vandeleur, his cane to Mr. Rolles, and, leaving them standing and
thus menially employed upon his service, spoke as follows:-

"I have come here, as I said, upon business; but, had I come
looking for pleasure, I could not have been more displeased with my
reception nor more dissatisfied with my company.  You, sir,"
addressing Mr. Rolles, "you have treated your superior in station
with discourtesy; you, Vandeleur, receive me with a smile, but you
know right well that your hands are not yet cleansed from
misconduct.  I do not desire to be interrupted, sir," he added
imperiously; "I am here to speak, and not to listen; and I have to
ask you to hear me with respect, and to obey punctiliously.  At the
earliest possible date your daughter shall be married at the
Embassy to my friend, Francis Scrymgeour, your brother's
acknowledged son.  You will oblige me by offering not less than ten
thousand pounds dowry.  At the second bar of the Lost Chord the
awful pain that was gradually gnawing away at his vitals seemed
to lose its poignancy in the face of the greater suffering, and
physical relief was instant.

As the musician proceeded the internal disorder yielded gradually to
the external and finally passed away entirely, leaving him so far
from prostrated that by one A.M. he was out of bed and actually
girding himself with a shotgun and an Indian Club to go upstairs
for a physical encounter with the cornetist."

"And you reason from this that Sullivan's Lost Chord is a cure for
Cholera morbus, eh?"

sneered the Doctor.

"It would seem so," said the Idiot.

"While the music continued my friend was a well man ready to go out
and fight like a warrior, but when the cornetist stopped--the
colic returned and he had to fight it out in the old way.

In these episodes in my own experience I find ample justification
for my belief and that of others that some day the music cure for
human ailments will be recognized and developed to the full.
Families going off to the country for the summer instead of taking
a medicine-chest along with them will go provided with a music-box
with cylinders for mumps, measles, summer complaint, whooping-cough,
chicken-pox, chills and fever and all the other ills the flesh is
heir to.

Scientific experiment will demonstrate before long what composition
will cure specific ills. If a baby has whooping-cough, an anxious
mother, instead of ringing up the Doctor, will go to the
piano and give the child a dose of Hiawatha. If a small boy
goes swimming and catches a cold in his head and is down with a
fever, his nurse, an expert on the accordeon, can bring him back
to health again with three bars of Under the Bamboo Tree after each
meal.

Instead of dosing kids with cod liver oil when they need a tonic,
they will be set to work at a mechanical piano and braced up on
Narcissus.

There'll Be a Hot Time In The Old Town To-Night will become an
effective remedy for a sudden chill. People suffering from sleeplessness
can dose themselves back to normal conditions again with Wagner the
way I did. Tchaikowski, to be well Tshaken before taken, will be
an effective remedy for a torpid liver, and the man or woman who
suffers from lassitude will doubtless find in the lively airs of
our two-step composers an efficient tonic to bring their vitality
up to a high standard of activity.

Nothing in it? Why, Doctor, there's more in it that's in sight to-day
that is promising and suggestive of great things in the future
than there was of the principle of gravitation in the rude act
of that historic pippin that left the parent tree and swatted Sir
Isaac Newton on the nose."

"And the Drug Stores will be driven out of business, I presume,"
said the Doctor.

"No," said the Idiot.

"They will substitute music for drugs, that is all. Every man who
can afford it will have his own medical phonograph or music-box,
and the drug stores will sell cylinders and records for them instead
of quinine, carbonate of soda, squills, paregoric and other nasty
tasting things they have now.

This alone will serve to popularize sickness and instead of being
driven out of business their trade will pick up."
"And the Doctor? And the Doctor's gig and all the appurtenances of
his profession--what becomes of them?" demanded the Doctor.

"We'll have to have the Doctor just the same to prescribe for us,
only he will have to be a musician, but the gig--I'm afraid that
will have to go," said the Idiot.

"And why, pray?" asked the Doctor. "Because there are no more drugs
must the physician walk?"
"Not at all," said the Idiot. "But he'd be better equipped if
he drove about in a piano-organ, or if he preferred an auto on a
steam calliope."

THE OCTOPUSSYCAT[4]
BY KENYON COX

I love Octopussy, his arms are so long; There's nothing in nature
so sweet as his song.
'Tis true I'd not touch him--no, not for a farm!
If I keep at a distance he'll do me no harm.

The tone in which he uttered these last words was eloquent in the
ears of the young clergyman; and for some minutes after the Prince
had turned away he stood on the threshold following with his eyes
the retreating figure and invoking the blessing of heaven upon a
man so excellent in counsel.

For several hours the Prince walked alone in unfrequented streets.
His mind was full of concern; what to do with the diamond, whether
to return it to its owner, whom he judged unworthy of this rare
possession, or to take some sweeping and courageous measure and put
it out of the reach of all mankind at once and for ever, was a
problem too grave to be decided in a moment.  The manner in which
it had come into his hands appeared manifestly providential; and as
he took out the jewel and looked at it under the street lamps, its
size and surprising brilliancy inclined him more and more to think
of it as of an unmixed and dangerous evil for the world.

"God help me!" he thought; "if I look at it much oftener, I shall
begin to grow covetous myself."

At last, though still uncertain in his mind, he turned his steps
towards the small but elegant mansion on the river-side which had
belonged for centuries to his royal family.  The arms of Bohemia
are deeply graved over the door and upon the tall chimneys;
passengers have a look into a green court set with the most costly
flowers, and a stork, the only one in Paris, perches on the gable
all day long and keeps a crowd before the house.  Grave servants
are seen passing to and fro within; and from time to time the great
gate is thrown open and a carriage rolls below the arch.  For many
reasons this residence was especially dear to the heart of Prince
Florizel; he never drew near to it without enjoying that sentiment
of home-coming so rare in the lives of the great; and on the
present evening he beheld its tall roof and mildly illuminated
windows with unfeigned relief and satisfaction.

As he was approaching the postern door by which he always entered
when alone, a man stepped forth from the shadow and presented
himself with an obeisance in the Prince's path.

"I have the honour of addressing Prince Florizel of Bohemia?" said
he.

"Such is my title," replied the Prince.  "What do you want with
me?"

"I am," said the man, "a detective, and I have to present your
Highness with this billet from the Prefect of Police."

The Prince took the letter and glanced it through by the light of
the street lamp.  It was highly apologetic, but requested him to
follow the bearer to the Prefecture without delay.

"In short," said Florizel, "I am arrested."

"Your Highness," replied the officer, "nothing, I am certain, could
be further from the intention of the Prefect.  You will observe
that he has not granted a warrant.  It is mere formality, or call
it, if you prefer, an obligation that your Highness lays on the
authorities."

"At the same time," asked the Prince, "if I were to refuse to
follow you?"

"I will not conceal from your Highness that a considerable
discretion has been granted me," replied the detective with a bow.

"Upon my word," cried Florizel, "your effrontery astounds me!
Yourself, as an agent, I must pardon; but your superiors shall
dearly smart for their misconduct.  What, have you any idea, is the
cause of this impolitic and unconstitutional act?  You will observe
that I have as yet neither refused nor consented, and much may
depend on your prompt and ingenuous answer.  Let me remind you,
officer, that this is an affair of some gravity."

"Your Highness," said the detective humbly, "General Vandeleur and
his brother have had the incredible presumption to accuse you of
theft.  _August tenth_
This do be the hottest summer in many years and lest I forget to
set it down more mad dogs than can well be handled. My wife very
hystericky and forever in a smock and declareth she would be dead
and married life a delusion, the which opinion I take small issue
with having my hands full of business and Lasselle forever at my
heels with our affair of the mine not to speak of H.

Nevil which waileth continually over how he was caught short in the
month of June. Beshrew me if I repent not of June on mine own behalf
but am determined to live properly and so have despatched a
messenger to my cousin Sarah Badminton asking that she come to keep
mine house.

One thing was certain.  He could not give the required assurance to
the detective.  He must gain time.

His hesitation had not lasted a second.

"Be it so," said he, "let us walk together to the Prefecture."

The man once more bowed, and proceeded to follow Florizel at a
respectful distance in the rear.

"Approach," said the Prince.  "I am in a humour to talk, and, if I
mistake not, now I look at you again, this is not the first time
that we have met."

"I count it an honour," replied the officer, "that your Highness
should recollect my face.  It is eight years since I had the
pleasure of an interview."

"To remember faces," returned Florizel, "is as much a part of my
profession as it is of yours.  Indeed, rightly looked upon, a
Prince and a detective serve in the same corps.  We are both
combatants against crime; only mine is the more lucrative and yours
the more dangerous rank, and there is a sense in which both may be
made equally honourable to a good man.  I had rather, strange as
you may think it, be a detective of character and parts than a weak
and ignoble sovereign."

The officer was overwhelmed.

"Your Highness returns good for evil," said he.  "To an act of
presumption he replies by the most amiable condescension."

"How do you know," replied Florizel, "that I am not seeking to
corrupt you?"

"Heaven preserve me from the temptation!" cried the detective.

"I applaud your answer," returned the Prince.  "It is that of a
wise and honest man.  The world is a great place and stocked with
wealth and beauty, and there is no limit to the rewards that may be
offered.  Such an one who would refuse a million of money may sell
his honour for an empire or the love of a woman; and I myself, who
speak to you, have seen occasions so tempting, provocations so
irresistible to the strength of human virtue, that I have been glad
to tread in your steps and recommend myself to the grace of God.
"I don't see how any one but a professional actor, or a person
with your dramatic gifts, can do that part at all--it's so sort of
ripping and--and intense, you know.

I look forward to your rendition of it with a good deal of pleasurable
anticipation."
"You don't expect me to do it, do you?" asked Amidon.

"Why, who else?" was the counter-question. "We can't be expected
to play on the bench the best man in Pennsylvania in that part,
can we?"
"Come, Brassfield," said the Sovereign Pontiff, "get on your regalia
for the Catacombs.

We are about to begin."

"Oh, say, now!" said Amidon, trying to be off-hand about it,
"you must get somebody else."
"What's that! Some one else? Very likely we shall! Very likely!"
thus the Sovereign Pontiff with fine scorn.The city was already sunk in slumber;
had it not been for the infinity of lights and the outline of
buildings on the starry sky, they might have been alone beside some
country river.

"An officer," began Prince Florizel, "a man of courage and conduct,
who had already risen by merit to an eminent rank, and won not only
admiration but respect, visited, in an unfortunate hour for his
peace of mind, the collections of an Indian Prince.  Here he beheld
a diamond so extraordinary for size and beauty that from that
instant he had only one desire in life:  honour, reputation,
friendship, the love of country, he was ready to sacrifice all for
this lump of sparkling crystal.  For three years he served this
semi-barbarian potentate as Jacob served Laban; he falsified
frontiers, he connived at murders, he unjustly condemned and
executed a brother-officer who had the misfortune to displease the
Rajah by some honest freedoms; lastly, at a time of great danger to
his native land, he betrayed a body of his fellow-soldiers, and
suffered them to be defeated and massacred by thousands.  In the
end, he had amassed a magnificent fortune, and brought home with
him the coveted diamond.

"Years passed," continued the Prince, "and at length the diamond is
accidentally lost.  It falls into the hands of a simple and
laborious youth, a student, a minister of God, just entering on a
career of usefulness and even distinction.  Upon him also the spell
is cast; he deserts everything, his holy calling, his studies, and
flees with the gem into a foreign country.  Cyanide Whiffles
stand out like a crab's. Besides these extraordinary furbishments,
Mr. Williams had his mustache waxed to fine points and his back hair
was precious with the luster and richness which accompany the use
of the attar of Third Avenue roses combined with the bear's grease
dispensed by basement barbers on that fashionable thoroughfare.

In sharp contrast to this scintillating entrance was the coming of
the Reverend Mr.

Thankful Smith, who had been disheveled by the heat, discolored by a
dusty evangelical trip to Coney Island, and oppressed by an attack
of malaria which made his eyes bloodshot and enriched his respiration
with occasional hiccoughs and that steady aroma which is said to
dwell in Weehawken breweries.

"We have spoken of corruption," said the Prince.  "To me this
nugget of bright crystal is as loathsome as though it were crawling
with the worms of death; it is as shocking as though it were
compacted out of innocent blood.  I see it here in my hand, and I
know it is shining with hell-fire.  I have told you but a hundredth
part of its story; what passed in former ages, to what crimes and
treacheries it incited men of yore, the imagination trembles to
conceive; for years and years it has faithfully served the powers
of hell; enough, I say, of blood, enough of disgrace, enough of
broken lives and friendships; all things come to an end, the evil
like the good; pestilence as well as beautiful music; and as for
this diamond, God forgive me if I do wrong, but its empire ends to-
night."

The Prince made a sudden movement with his hand, and the jewel,
describing an arc of light, dived with a splash into the flowing
river.

"Amen," said Florizel with gravity.  "I have slain a cockatrice!"

"God pardon me!" cried the detective.  "What have you done?  I am a
ruined man."

At last the family came to the rolling, green Yadkin Valley in North
Carolina.

There were a few houses there already, but it was much wilder than
in Pennsylvania.

Father Boone said, "This is good farming land. We will stop here."
Daniel looked all about him."And now
let us go forward to the Prefecture."

