Father Charlevoix's portrait appears to us somewhat too black, and
he does not seem to estimate at its true value the great discovery
which we owe to Cavelier de la Sale; a discovery, which has nothing
like it, we do not say equal to it, except that of the river Amazon,
by Orellana, in the 16th century, and that of the Congo, by Stanley,
in the 19th. However this may be, no sooner had he arrived in the
country, than he set himself, with extraordinary application, to
study the native idioms, and to associate with the savages in order
to render himself familiar with their manners and habits. At the
same time he gathered from the trappers a mass of information on the
situation of the rivers and lakes. He communicated his projects of
exploration to M. de Frontenac, who encouraged him, and gave him the
command of a fort constructed at the outlet of the lake into the St.
Lawrence. In the meantime, one Jolyet arrived at Quebec. He brought
the news that in company with Father Marquette and four other
persons, he had reached a great river called the Mississippi,
flowing towards the south. Cavelier de la Sale very soon understood
what advantage might be derived from an artery of this importance,
especially if the Mississippi had, as he believed, its mouth in the
Gulf of Mexico. By the lakes and the Illinois, an affluent of the
Mississippi, it was easy to effect a communication between the St.
Lawrence, and the Sea of the Antilles. What marvellous profit would
France derive from this discovery! La Sale explained the project
which he had conceived to the Count of Frontenac, and obtained from
him very pressing letters of recommendation to the Minister of
Marine. On arriving in France, La Sale learned the death of Colbert;
but he remitted to his son, the Marquis of Seignelay, who had
succeeded him, the despatches of which he was the bearer. This
project, which appeared to rest upon solid foundations, could not
fail to please a young minister. Accordingly, Seignelay presented La
Sale to the king, who caused letters of nobility to be prepared for
him, granted him the Seignory of Catarocouy, and the government of
the fort which he had built, with the monopoly of commerce in the
countries which he might discover.

La Sale had also found means to procure the patronage of the Prince
de Conti, who asked him to take with him the Chevalier Tonti, son of
the inventor of the Tontine, in whom he felt an interest. He was for
La Sale a precious acquisition. Tonti, who had made a campaign in
Sicily, where his hand had been carried off by the explosion of a
grenade, was a brave and skilful officer, who always showed himself
extremely devoted.

La Sale and Tonti embarked at Rochelle, on July 14th, 1678, carrying
with them about thirty men, workmen and soldiers, and a Recollet
(monk), Father Hennepin, who accompanied them in all their voyages.

Then La Sale, being conscious that the execution of his project
required more considerable resources than those which were at his
disposal, constructed a boat upon the Lake Erie, and devoted a whole
year to scouring the country, visiting the Indians, and carrying on
an active trade in furs, which he stored in his fort of Niagara,
while Tonti pursued the same course in other directions. At length,
towards the middle of August, of the year 1679, his boat, the
_Griffon_, being prepared for sailing, he embarked on the Lake Erie,
with thirty men, and three Fathers, Recollets, for Machillimackinac.
In crossing the lakes St. Clair and Huron, he experienced a violent
storm, which caused the desertion of some of his people, whom,
however, Tonti brought back to him. La Sale arrived at
Machillimackinac, and very soon entered the Green Bay. But during
this time his creditors at Quebec had sold all that he possessed,
and the _Griffon_, which he had despatched, laden with furs, to the
fort of Niagara, was either lost or pillaged by the Indians; which
of these took place has never been precisely ascertained. For
himself, although the departure of the _Griffon_ had displeased his
companions, he continued his route, and reached the river St. Joseph,
where he found an encampment of Miamis, and where Tonti speedily
rejoined him. Their first care was to construct a fort on this spot.
Then they crossed the dividing line of the water between the basin
of the great lakes, and that of the Mississippi; they subsequently
reached the river of the Illinois, an affluent on the left of that
great river. With his small band of followers, upon whose fidelity
he could not entirely depend, the situation of La Sale was critical,
in the midst of an unknown country, and among a powerful nation, the
Illinois, who, at first allies of France, had been prejudiced and
excited against us by the Iroquois and the English, jealous of the
progress of the Canadian colony.

Nevertheless, it was necessary, at all cost, to attach to himself
these Indians, who from their situation, were able to hinder all
communication between La Sale and Canada. In order to strike their
imagination, Cavelier de la Sale proceeds to their encampment, where
more than 3000 men are assembled. He has but twenty men, but he
traverses their village haughtily, and stops at some distance. The
Illinois, who have not yet declared war, are surprised. They advance
towards him, and overwhelm him with pacific demonstrations. So
versatile is the spirit of the savages! Such an impression does
every mark of courage make upon them! Without delay, La Sale takes
advantage of their friendly dispositions, and erects upon the very
site of their camp, a small fort, which he calls Crèvecoeur, in
allusion to the troubles which he has already experienced. There he
leaves Tonti with all his people, and he himself, anxious about the
fate of the _Griffon_, returns with three Frenchmen and one Indian,
to the fort of Catarocouy, separated by 500 leagues from Crèvecoeur.
Before setting out, he had detached with Father Hennepin, one of his
companions named Dacan, on a mission to reascend the Mississippi
beyond the river of the Illinois, and if possible, to its source.
"These two travellers," says Father Charlevoix, "set out from the
fort of Crèvecoeur, on February 28th, and having entered the
Mississippi, ascended it as far as 46 degrees of north latitude.
There they were stopped by a considerable waterfall, extending quite
across the river, to which Father Hennepin gave the name of St.
Anthony of Padua. Then they fell, I know not by what mischance, into
the hands of the Sioux, who kept them for a long time prisoners."

On his journey back to Catarocouy, La Sale, having discovered a new
site appropriate to the construction of a fort, summoned Tonti
thither, who immediately set to work, while La Sale continued his
route. This is Fort St. Louis. On his arrival at Catarocouy, La Sale
learned news which would have broken down a man of a less hardy
temperament. --_Farming News_.

Give us the poor cows every time.

* * * * *
From a Church paper:--
"'EARLY CHRISTIANS.' I am sorry you cannot get these from
the Army and Navy Stores."

It sounds like the old tiger story.

* * * * *
"A certain company commander, looking out of his quarters, saw
several Germans in possession of a dump not far away.
Although still in his sleeping clothes, he seized his trench tick and
rushed towards them. Why they did not fire upon him is one of those
little mysteries which will probably never be explained."--_Daily
Paper_.

Unless by the learned author of _Minor Horrors of War_, who knows all
about the fauna of the trenches.

* * * * *
THE PERFECT CUSTOMER.

It was a very ordinary country sale of work. The Countess of Bilberry
declared it open in a neat little speech, and then bought
generously from every stall: her daughter, whose smile nobody could
resist, did a fine trade with raffle tickets for the record
pumpkin produced by the local allotments: Mrs. Dodd, the Rector's
wife, presided over a pair of scales and a strictly rationed tea, and
all the rest of the village sold vegetables and socks and
pincushions, and tried to pretend that antimacassars and shaving
tidies and woolwork waistbelts were the most desirable things in the
world when they were made by wounded men at the nearest Red Cross
Hospital, in whose aid the sale was held.

But there was one unique figure amongst all the folk who knew each
other, and each other's clothes, and each other's clothes' cost,
so well. She arrived at the Village Hall in a pony-carriage, drawn
by the ugliest little pony that ever sniffed oats. She was very quietly
and very tastefully dressed, and, instead of concentrating on the
well-laden stalls of garden produce or the orderly stacks of knitted
comforts, or the really useful baskets, she went straight to the
stall which even Mrs.

Dodd, who had the kindest heart in the countryside, had been
compelled to relegate to a dark corner. There was woolwork run riot
over cushions of incredible hardness; there were candle-shades
guaranteed to catch alight at the mere sight of a match; there were
crochet dressing-table mats, and there was a three-legged
stool on which even a fairy could not have sat without danger
of a break-down.

The youngest Miss Dodd, a severely practical young lady of sixteen,
who was presiding at this stall, jumped up in surprise at
the sight of a customer, and in doing so knocked over a glass
box bound with red and white and blue ribbon, with "Handkerchiefs"
painted across the corner in a design of forget-me-nots.

There was very little glass box left when she picked it up, and
the splinters had made a good many little craters in the surface
of a big bowl of clotted cream, labelled "Positively the last appearance
for the Duration of the War," which was at the corner of the next
stall.
The little stranger said that she would take the box and the damaged
cream too; she bought a whole family of crochet mats with centres
of orange woollen loops; three pincushions made of playing cards
discharged as no longer fit for active service; a table-centre with
pen-painting of the Allied flags, and a letter-case with the badges
of the Dominions worked in wool and "Across the sea, A letter from
thee," straggling wearily across one corner.He set out,
therefore, and received from Seignelay a kindly welcome. The
minister had not been much influenced by the letters of M. de la
Barre; he was aware that men could not accomplish great achievements
without wounding much self-love, nor without making numerous enemies.
La Sale took the opportunity to explain to him his project of
discovering the mouth of the Mississippi by sea, in order to open a
way for French vessels, and to found an establishment there. The
minister entered into these views, and gave him a commission which
placed Frenchmen and savages under his orders, from Fort St. Louis
to the sea. At the same time the commandant of the squadron which
was to transport him to America, was to be under his authority, and
to furnish him on his disembarkation with all the succours which he
might require, provided that nothing was done to the prejudice of
the king. Four vessels, one of them a frigate of forty guns,
commanded by M. de Beaujeu were to carry 280 persons, including the
crews, to the mouth of the Mississippi, to form the nucleus of the
new colony. Soldiers and artisans had been very badly chosen, as was
perceived when too late, and no one knew his business. Setting sail
from La Rochelle, on July 24th, 1684, the little squadron was almost
immediately obliged to return to port, the bowsprit of the frigate
having broken suddenly in the very finest weather. This inexplicable
accident was the commencement of misunderstanding between M. de
Beaujeu and M. de la Sale. The former could scarcely be pleased to
see himself subordinated to a private individual, and did not
forgive Cavelier this. Nothing however would have been more easy
than to decline the command. La Sale had not the gentleness of
manner and the politeness necessary to conciliate his companions.
The disagreement did but gather force during the voyage by reason of
the obstacles raised by M. de Beaujeu to the rapidity and secrecy of
the expedition. The annoyances of La Sale had indeed become so great
when he arrived at St. Domingo, that he fell seriously ill. He
recovered, however, and the expedition set sail again on November
25th. A month later, it was off Florida; but, as "La Sale had been
assured that in the Gulf of Mexico, all the currents bore eastwards,
he did not doubt that the mouth of the Mississippi must be far to
the west; an error which was the source of all his misfortunes."

La Sale then steered to the west, and passed by, without perceiving
it, without deigning even to attend to certain signs which he was
asked to observe, the mouth of the Mississippi. When he perceived
his mistake, and entreated M. de Beaujeu to turn back, the latter
would no longer consent. La Sale, seeing that he could make no
impression upon the contradictory mind of his companion, decided to
disembark his men and his provisions in the Bay of St. Bernard. Yet,
in this very last act, Beaujeu manifested an amount of culpable
ill-will, which did as little honour to his judgment as to his
patriotism. Not only was he unwilling to land all the provisions,
under the pretext that certain of them being at the bottom of the
hold, he had no time to change his stowage, but further he gave
shelter on board his own ship to the master and crew of the
transport, laden with the stores, utensils, and implements necessary
for a new establishment, people whom everything seems to convict of
having purposely cast their vessel upon shore. At the same time, a
number of savages took advantage of the disorder caused by the
shipwreck of the transport, to plunder everything on which they
could lay their hands. Nevertheless, La Sale, who had the talent of
never appearing depressed by misfortune, and who found in his own
genius resources adapted to the circumstances of the case, ordered
the works of the establishment to be begun. In order to give courage
to his companions, he more than once took part with his own hands in
the work; but very slow progress was made, in consequence of the
ignorance of the workmen. The hon. Member having expressed a
hope that the Peers would grant reciprocal facilities to the
Commons, Mr. HOGGE kindly suggested that the Government should
grant him "all the privileges of the House of Lords." But Mr.
BONAR LAW declined to deprive the House of Commons in that way of
one of its brightest ornaments; so the "Mad Hatter" will not be
called upon just yet awhile to exchange his traditional headgear
for a coronet.

I presume some Members of Parliament know what "non-ferrous metals"
are, and what is the object of the Bill which the Government has
introduced to deal with them. But the views which they took on the
subject were so obscurely divergent that all I could gather from
the debate was that in some way or other the measure was intended
to be a nasty knock for German trade. That was good enough
for the House at large, which passed the Second Reading by a
substantial majority.

[Illustration: A HORRIBLE MENACE. MR. JOSEPH KING.]
_Wednesday, December 12th_.--Mr. PRINGLE, having asserted that
candidates for appointments under the War Office were successful
simply on account of possessing a "pull" with the Selection Department,
was quietly reminded by the UNDER-SECRETARY that he himself had
attempted to use his influence on behalf of a candidate.
Mr. PRINGLE was righteously indignant. He had never asked favours
of the War Office; he had merely "recommended men personally known
to me." This delicate distinction, which should have convinced
Members of Mr.De la Sale, uneasy at not
seeing his nephew return, set out to seek him on the morning of the
19th, with Father Anastase. The assassins, seeing him approach, lay
in ambush in a thicket, and one of them shot him in the head, and
stretched him on the ground stark dead. Thus perished Cavelier de la
Sale, "a man of a capacity," says Father Charlevoix, "of a largeness
of mind, of a courage and firmness of soul, which might have led him
to the achievement of something great, if with so many great
qualities, he had known how to master his gloomy and atrabilious
disposition, and to soften the severity or rather the harshness of
his nature...." Many calumnies had been spread abroad against him;
but it is necessary so much the more to be on our guard against all
these malevolent reports "as it is only too common to exaggerate the
defects of the unfortunate, to impute to them even some which they
had not, especially when they have given occasion for their
misfortune, and have not known how to make themselves beloved. As I
anticipated I had some surprises.

A few important business memoranda, a sugar form, two income
tax demands, a number of private letters and an unpaid coal account
made up the collection. There was really nothing I could part with.Unhappily,
these are usually the most numerous, and in some degree the voice of
the public."

[Illustration: Assassination of La Sale.]

We have but little to add to these last wise words. La Sale knew not
how to obtain pardon for his first success. We have related
subsequently by what concurrence of circumstances his second
enterprise miscarried. He died, the victim it may be said, of the
jealousy and malevolence of the Chevalier de Beaujeu. It is to this
slight cause that we owe the failure to found in America a powerful
colony, which would very soon have been found in a condition to
compete with the English establishments.

We have narrated the beginning of the English colonies. The events
which took place in England were highly favourable to them. The
religious persecutions, the revolutions of 1648 and 1688, furnished
numerous recruits, who, animated by an excellent spirit, set
themselves to work, and transported to the other side of the
Atlantic the arts, the industry, and in a short time the prosperity,
of the mother country. Then there was an antimacassar in purple and
magenta sateen, with yellow daffodils making a brave attempt to
flourish in unlikely surroundings.

At the next stall she bought a photograph frame which had lost its
prop in an unequal contest with a tea-tray which had collapsed from
the heartiness of the Rector's clapping at the conclusion of the
Countess's speech; and a Noah's Ark from which the star performer
and his very best beasts had somehow disappeared.

Then the little lady paused before the live-stock stall.
The Spaniards had extended their conquests; but, far from acting
like the English, they had reduced the Indians to slavery. Instead
of applying themselves to the cultivation appropriate to the variety
of the climates and of the countries of which they had made
themselves masters, they sought only in the produce of the mines the
resources and prosperity which they should have endeavoured to
obtain from the land. If a country can thus rapidly attain
prodigious wealth, yet this factitious system cannot last long. With
the mines a prosperity which does not renew itself, must ere long
become exhausted. The Spaniards could not fail to experience the sad
result.

