I remained as a kind of semi-prisoner, tolerated because of Nokomee's
position and her affection for me. Nokomee, I learned, was "of the
blood," though there were few surviving of her family to carry on the
power and prestige she would have inherited. Yet, she was "of the blood"
and entitled to all the respect and obedience the Zervs gave even to
their old ruler.

He was an attenuated skeleton of a man, with weary eyes and trembling
hands, and I grew more and more sure that the inactivity against their
usurpers visible in the valley beneath was due more to his age and
timorous nature than to any inability to turn the tables. They seemed to
hold the "Schrees" in contempt, yet never took any action against them,
so that I wondered if the contempt were justified or was an inherited,
sublimated hatred.

The supplies, rifles and ammunition which had been left on our horses
when we entered the cavern of the golden image, had been brought to
Nokomee's cavern and locked in a small chamber before my eyes. It was
all there. As the time dragged on, I chafed at the inactivity, fought
against the barriers of language and alien custom that separated me from
these people, struggled to overcome their indifference and their, to me,
impossible waiting for _what_ I did not understand.

Finally I could wait no longer. In the night, I burst the lock of the
closet with a bar, took out a rifle and .45 and two belts of cartridges.
I slid over the lip of the ledge that hid us from the city's eyes. I was
going to see for myself what we were hiding from, what we were waiting
for, was going to take my chances with the dangers in that place they
had built and from which they now hid. I had pressed Nokomee for
explanations and promises of future participation in their life and
activities, and I had been refused for the last time! Like a runaway, I
slid down the steep cliff face, putting as much space between the Zervs
and myself as rapidly as I could.

The night was dark as pitch. I had left Nokomee asleep in her chamber. I
had avoided Holaf, who still kept a kind of amused watch over my
activities, and I was free. Free to explore that weird city of plodding
lives, of strange unexplained sounds, of ominously hidden activity!

Scrambling, sliding, worrying in the dimness, I finally reached the less
precipitous slopes of the base of the cliff. As I stopped to get a
bearing on the direction of the city, above me came a slithering, a soft
feminine exclamation, and down upon me came a perfumed weight, knocking
me sprawling in the grass.

My eyes quickly adjusted, I crawled to the dim shape struggling to her
feet. Her face was not Nokomee's, as I had at first thought. Those
enormous shadowed eyes, that thin lovely nose, the flower-fragile lips,
the mysterious allure--were the woman whom Nokomee had described as a
"Zoorph" and whom she had both feared and despised. I spoke sharply in
the tongue of the Zervs. I had learned enough under Nokomee's tutelage
to carry on a conversation.

"Why do you follow me, Zoorph?"

"Because I am weary of being cooped up with those who do not trust me,
just as you. I want to find a new, exciting thing; just as do you. Even
if it is death or worse, I want it. I am alive, as are you."

I put down the dislike and distrust the girl Nokomee had aroused in me
against her. Perhaps she _had_ been merely jealous of her.

"Don't you _know_ what could happen in the city?" To me it was curious
that she should want to go where the others feared to go.

"I know no better than you what awaits there, and I do not believe what
they have told me of the Schrees. They are not wholly human, but neither
are they evil wholly, as the Zervs suppose."

"Why do the Zervs wait, instead of trying to do something for
themselves? They speak of the threat of these raiders, yet they do not
try to help me bring others of my people here to stop the threat they
speak of so fearfully. I do not understand."

"The old ruler thinks the ships will come and drive them off from his
city. But he is wrong, they will never come. It is like waiting for the
moon to fall. The raiders' ships will return, and they will be stronger
than ever. But not a ship of the Zervs remains in neighboring space to
succor us. Yet he hopes, and his followers wait. Hemorrhages occur in
the skin, retina, pleura, peritoneum, etc.
Headache, dizziness, short breathing, and fainting may occur from
the anemia.

The liver may be enlarged. The blood shows a great increase in the white
cells. Sometimes they are more numerous than the red blood cells.
(b) Lymphatic type is rare, various groups of the lymph glands are enlarged,
usually separate, but sometimes matted together; others, such as
the tonsils may become large.

The blood shows an increase of the white cells, but less than in
the other form."A Zoorph is a member of a cult; a student of mysteries not understood
by the many. The others have a superstition about us, that we destroy
souls and make others slaves to our will. It is stupid, but it is like
all superstitions--hard to disprove because so vague in nature." She
flickered impossible eyelashes at me languishingly, in perfect coquetry.
"You don't think me dangerous to your soul, do you?"

I didn't. I thought her a very charming and talented woman, whom I
wanted to know much better. I said so, and she laughed.

"You are wiser than I thought, to see through their lies. They are good
people, but like all people everywhere, they have their little
insanities, their beliefs and their intolerances."

Yet within me there was a little warning shudder borne of the strange
power of her eyes on my own, of the chill of the night, of many little
past-observed strangenesses in her ways, in the fear the Zervs bore for
her ... I reserved something of caution. She saw this in my eyes and
smiled sadly, and that sad and understanding smile was perfectly
calculated to dispel my last doubt of her. I slid closer across the
grass, to lie beside her.

"What could I gain by a knowledge of what lies in the city, Zoorph?" I
asked.

"My name is _Carna_, stranger. In that city you can learn whether there
is danger for your people in what the Schrees plan on earth. We could
not tell that, for we do not know enough about your own race's
abilities. You could steal a vehicle to take you to your own rich
cities. And as for me, I could go with you, to practice my arts in your
cities and become rich and famous."

"What are your arts, Carna?"

"Nothing you would call spectacular, perhaps. I can read thought, I can
foretell the future, and I can sometimes make things happen fortunately,
if I try very hard. Such things, very unsubstantial arts, not like your
gun which kills. Subtle things, like making men fall in love with me,
perhaps."

She laughed into my eyes and I got abruptly to my feet. She was telling
the truth in the last sentence, and I did not blame Nokomee for fearing
her power.

"Let us see, then, Carna, what the night can give us. I cannot wait
forever for chance to bring me freedom. Come," I bent and helped her to
her feet, very pleasant and clinging her grasp on my arm, very soft and
utterly smooth the flesh of her arm in my hand, very graceful and lovely
her swift movement to rise. My heart was beating wildly, she was a kind
I understood, but could not resist any the better for knowing. Or was I
unkind, and she but starved for kindness and human sympathy, so long
among a people who disliked and feared her?

We walked along in the darkness, the distant moving lights of that city
closer each step, and a dread in my breast at what I would find there, a
dread that grew. Beside me Carna was silent, her face lovely and glowing
in the night, her step graceful as a deer's.

We circled the high wall of white marble keeping some twenty feet away,
where the grass gave knee-high cover we could drop into instantly. We
came around to the far side from the cliff, and stopped where a paved
highway ran smooth, like pebbled glass, straight across the valley. I
glanced at Carna, she gestured toward the open gate in the wall, and
smiled a daring word.

"In...?"

"In!" I answered, and like two kids, hand in hand, we stole through the
shadowed gateway, sliding quickly out of the light, standing with our
backs to the wall, looking up the long, dim-lit way along which a myriad
dark doorways told of life. But it was seemingly deserted. Carna
whispered softly:

"When it was ours, the night was gay with life and love, now--_it is
death!_"

"Death or taxes, we're going to take a look."

We stole along the shadowed side of the street, the moon was up,
shedding much too bright a light now for comfort. Perhaps a hundred
yards along that strange street we went, I letting the Zoorph lead the
way, for I had an idea she must know the city and have some plan, or she
would not be here. If she meant to use me to escape into my world, I was
all for her.


Then, from ahead, came the sound of feet, many of them in unison. We
darted into a doorway, crouched behind a balustrade. Nearer came the
feet, and I peered between the interstices of the screening balustrade.
The feet came on; slow, rhythmic, marching without zest or pause or
break, perfection without snap. As the first marching figure came into
sight in the moonlight, I shuddered to the core with something worse
than fear.

For they were men who were no longer men! When Barto and Polter and
Noldi had been carried off unconscious, Nokomee had told me:

"They are not my people. They go their way and we go ours. Time has made
us a people divided. Time, _and a cruel science_."

These were the mole-men, the crab-men, the creatures built for specific
purposes as tools are built. Each _thing_ bore on his back a bale of
goods, or a bar of metal, a burden sizeable enough for two ordinary men.
They were strong, and they were silent and smooth-moving as machines. I
realized they _were_ machines--made out of flesh.

"Are these slaves, or what?" I asked Carna.

"These were once the slaves, or workmen of the race of Zervs. They now
serve the Schrees, for they are mindless, in a way. They are not
important. It is those who guard and guide them I wait to see. I have
not yet seen a Schree, but only heard the Zervs describe them."

The nightmare procession went on for minutes, long minutes that were to
me a nightmare. Yet I realized that if I had been raised to the idea of
humankind made into machines, it would not be revolting--not after they
had been hereditarily moulded for centuries into what they were. Yet
what a crime it was, what they might have been if left to develop as
nature intended, rather than as man cruelly mal-intended. They must have
been once specially selected for strength as well as beauty, for about
them was a sad and terrible grace, a remainder of noble chiseling of
brow and nostril, distorted as by a fiend into the horror that it
was--these had once been a noble race!

"Do you feel the terrible horror of this sight?" I asked Carna.

"Always I have felt the horror that was done to them in the past. It is
_still_ done to man. Look, there are the three who came with you, and
fell into the hands _of the priests_. They are the thing that the Zervs
_really fear_, yet they live with it, and have done so for centuries.
They can despise the Schrees, but they are as bad themselves--look!"

I followed with my eye her pointing finger. Yes, that figure _was_
hulking Barto, and I almost yelled "Jake, snap out of it!" before I
remembered my own peril.

Then he came into the full light, and passed not twenty feet away. I
leaned against the railing of stone, sick as a dog and retching. They
had made him over, with some unknown aborted science of an evil world!
Jake was clubfooted, lumbering, with his jaws grown into great jowls of
bone, his arms elongated and ending in hooks. Two of the fingers, or the
thumb and finger had been enlarged or grafted into a bone-like semblance
of a crab's claw. What he was going to be when they got through, I
didn't know, but neither did Jake. He didn't know anything! He clumped
along, his crossed eyes unmoving, his back bent with a weight heavy for
even his broad shoulders--a man no longer, but a mindless zombie. A
cross-eyed zombie!

I cursed silently, tearing my hands against the stone as I resisted the
impulse to fire and fire again upon those hopping, thin, white things
that came after.

"Just _what_ are those hopping things?"

"They are a separate race, who have lived with both Zervs and with
Schrees. They are a part of our life. You have dogs, horses, machines.
We have _Jivros_--that is, priests--and we have the workmen we call
Shinros, and too, we have the Zoorphs!" She laughed a little as I stared
at her. "Do not worry, the Zoorphs are not really so different. But the
Schrees and Shinros _are_ different."

"Damned, beastly, demoniac life it must be."

"To you, who expect things to be like your knowledge tells you it must
be. To us, it is our way. For a Zerv, or for a Schree, it is a good way.
The Jivros do the supervisory work, the Shinros do the hard work, and
the Schrees take it easy and enjoy life. Why do you have machines?"

"Machines are not alive. That is different."

"Neither are the Shinros alive, they only seem so. They do not know what
they have lost--it is much as if they had died.

"But come, I must show you where we can get a ship to take us away from
this and into your world. I have a life to live, I want to _live_ it!
You--have a message to deliver to your people, or they will become the
Shinros of the whole race of Schrees. I do not like to think what can
happen to your world!"


I followed her again on our furtive way among the shadows. She was
swift and sure, and made good time. She knew where she was going. It was
a broad open space deep within the city. On three sides were wide closed
doors like hangar doors. The fourth was a massive structure of rose
granite, beetling above us, a monstrous shape in the dimness, throwing a
shadow half across the paved space. We raced across the shadow toward
the nearest doorway, flattened against it, listening for life inside.
Carna worked on the catch of the door, after a second slid the door
aside slowly, carefully. Inside I could see a shimmering smoothness,
round, higher than my head, a top-shaped object. I guessed that this was
the ship she meant to steal from the Schrees. Suddenly the door she was
sliding open scraped, and emitted a shrill, high-pitched sound. I did
not know if it was an alarm activated by the opening door or just rust
on the rails and wheels of the door mechanism. Carna cried:

"Hurry, get into the ship, we must take off at once. They will come;
they must have heard that sound!"

I ducked into the darkness, circled the bulging shape, looking for an
opening. Smooth, there seemed no way I could find.

"Here it is, help me open it," Carna panted behind me.

I leaped to her side. She was twisting at an inset handle around which
faint lines indicated the door edge. I pulled her aside, took hold of
the handle, twisted hard. It bent, then gave, and the door swung easily
open in my hands. We tumbled in. Carna raced through the first chamber,
and even as I got the door closed, the floor lifted under my feet
easily, drifted out of the wide doorway, shot upward so quickly I was
thrown to the floor. I lay there, the increasing acceleration pressing
me hard against the cool metal. After a time I struggled up, made my way
to the woman's side.

Ahead was the moonlit range of mountains. Carna was setting a course
straight along the ridge of them, heading southward.

"How far will this thing fly?" I asked.

"It will fly around your world many times, if I want it to."

"What kind of fuel does it use?" I asked incredulously.

"I don't know what that is. It uses a substance we call Ziss. It is a
good fuel."

"It must be!"

I looked back along the ridge of the mountain's top toward the valley we
had left. We were in a bubble on the top of the flat, circular ship; one
could see in any direction. Back there a series of glowing round shapes
shot upward, came after us in a long curve that would bring them ahead
of us on our course. Carna changed her course to parallel the pursuit,
and they changed again, to intercept her new direction. Again she
changed, circling farther west.

But it was no use! Rapidly they overhauled us.

"Can't you get more speed out of it?" I shouted at her, for they were
very close.

"We have been unlucky, my friend. This ship is not in good shape. There
is something wrong with it. I cannot make it go as it should, or there
is something I do not know...."

Swiftly they came up with us, over us, and beams of light shot from them
down upon us. They may become chronic and they are very liable
to do so. Some of them may disappear.

PHYSICIANS' TREATMENT for Nerve Tumor.--The severe forms should
be cut out; others can be let alone.

NEURITIS (Inflammation of the Nerves. Neura-Nerves;
Itis-Inflammation.
Inflammation of the Bundles of Nerve Fibres).--Nagel describes it
as "an inflammation of the nerves of an acute or chronic nature,
associated with more or less degeneration, change in the nerve
fibrils of the affected nerves."If you submit
meekly, it may be I can talk to someone and save you. I have ways. I
understand them. They will be glad to get me, and I will tell them _you_
know many things they need to know. I can save your life. Later we can
try again, in another ship. Next time we will not be so unlucky."

It sounded like sense, and I looked into her deep eyes searchingly. She
meant well. Perhaps she could do what she said. I did not know these
aliens; she was almost one of them.

As the door opened in the side, I lay the rifle down, stood with crossed
arms as the thin, hopping horrors came near.


These things had _never_ been men. They had faces that were empty of
features, just flat, shiny, gray eyes, two holes where they breathed, no
mouth that I could see. There was a long neck around which the collar of
their white robe was gathered in folds. Their hands were horny, like an
insect's claws. They were not human, they were only four-limbed, and
walked--or hopped--in an erect position. There the resemblance ceased.

They led us out, Carna rattling off a series of sounds I could hardly
follow. Something about:

"We had to flee from the Zervs, we did not believe you would take us in,
we had to steal a ship. I am Carna, a Zoorph of the first grade, and
this man is a native of the United States, the greatest country of this
earth. Do not harm him, he can help you if he wishes."

Her words must have had quite an effect, for the weird, insect-like men
examined me with their eyes as we hurried along, across the hangar
space, into the big building of rose granite. Within twenty minutes we
were entering a tremendous room, and Carna nudged me.

"Their boss, Carl! Look impressed."

It was easy to look impressed. I _was_ mightily impressed by the _She_
on the throne!

       *       *       *

I had no eyes for the score or so of Schrees that surrounded the massive
carved chair, even though I was curious about their difference from men.
Above them were her sleepy eyes, wide almonds, molten and wise,
incandescent with intense inner fire above a mouth that was a wide,
scarlet oval torn into the whitely-glowing face.

A great black pelt softened the harsh lines of the throne, framed her
chalk-white body so that it curved starkly sensual, dominating the great
chamber with beauty. It was a beauty one knew this woman used as a tool,
a weapon, keen and polished and ready, and it struck at me swift as a
great serpent, the fires behind her eyes driving the blow.

She wore a kind of sark of shadowy black veil, sewn over with sparkling
bits of gem. It was in truth but an effective ornament for the proud
firm breasts, the narrow waist, the arch of the hips and the curves of
her thighs. Inadvertently I let out a low whistle of approbation and
astonishment. Carna, beside me, nudged me sharply, and I snapped out of
it.

The purple, lazy lids of her eyes moved, the slow weary-wise gaze
centered on me, her hand moved. In two strides a man from the
throne-side had me by the arm, and another seized my other, tugged me
forward to her feet, thrust me down on my knees. Still, I looked.
Curiosity and something more held me in a grip I couldn't shake.

This was more than a woman, I sensed. There was an awe of her throbbing
in me. Not fear--something deeper, something one feels before the
unexplainable, something one feels gazing at the moon and wondering; an
ominous, deep, thrilling and unexplainable emotion.

Closer, I could see her firm flesh was dusted over with a glittering
powder, the soft curves of her hair swept back to mingle and lose
themselves in the black fur of the pelt so that the night-black hair
seemed to spread everywhere about her and melt into the shadows.

Her hands were sinuous as serpents, the fingers tapering, the nails very
long like the Chinese. Her nose was exquisite, but thin-edged, and with
a cruel line on each side that vanished when she spoke.

"It is death to strangers in this valley...." she mused, not speaking to
me or to anyone, but with a cruel intent to toy with me in the words,
mocking, waiting for me to answer.

"I have been long on the way," I answered, in much the same tone, as
though we were speaking of some one not present.

"The way to death is sometimes long, and sometimes short. And, too,
there are things worse than death. But what was it you came here
seeking?"

"I did not know, until just now," I answered, still looking at her eyes,
which glanced at me, then away, then back again. She was interested in
spite of her apparent weariness with routine--or perhaps with life
itself.

"Now that you know, will you tell me?" She smiled a little, not a good
smile, but a secret jest with herself. An appearance of extreme evil sat
for a moment on her face, then went again, like the wind. Her voice was
grave, careless, yet modulated with an extreme care as if she spoke to a
child.

"I seek the wisdom I see in your eyes, to know what is and why it
wearies you. I want to know a great many things, about your people and
what they do here, what they mean to mine, what your plans may be--a
great many things I need now."

The sleepiness left her eyes, and she bent toward me with the grace of a
great cat and the shadows circling her eyes lifted a little. Wise,
aloof, indifferent, yet she did not know what I was, or what I meant,
and she meant to find out.

"So you know...." she mused, as if to herself.

"I know you are from space. I know it has been a long long time since
you first touched here; your people, that is. I know that you drove the
Zervs from this city and took it for your own. But that is all."

"It is too much. You cannot leave here." Her voice was sharp, and I was
surprised to learn that she had even considered letting me go free. It
was encouraging, after the dire pictures the Zervs and Nokomee had drawn
for me of these Schrees.

I looked curiously at them, the Zervs had called them "not human." They
_were_ different, as a negro is different from a white, or an Oriental
from a Finn. Their eyes were wide-set and a little prominent, their ears
thinner and smaller, their necks very long and supple--different still
from the Zervs. Yet they were a human race. I had misunderstood--or I
had not yet met those whom the Zervs called Schree.


Carna had knelt beside me, and I murmured to her:

"Are these the Schrees, or something else?"

"These are the high-class Schrees, they are very like the Zervs in
appearance. The other classes of the Schrees at sometime in the past
were changed by medical treatments into a different appearance. It was a
way of fixing the caste system permanently--understand?" She answered me
swiftly, in a whisper, and the woman on the throne frowned as she
noticed our conversation.

Her eyes fixed ours as she said, with a curiously excited inflection, no
longer bored with us: "Take these two to the place of questioning. I
will supervise the proceeding. I must know what these two intended here,
whether others of this man's people understand us."

"We're in for it!" said Carna, and I knew what she meant. Jerked to our
feet, we were hurried from the big throne room, down a corridor, through
a great open door which closed behind us.

That place! It was a laboratory out of Mr. Hyde's nightmares.

Up until now I had accepted the many divergencies and peculiarities of
the Zervs, the priestly insect-men, the monstrous workers--all the
variance of this colony from space--as only to be expected of another
planet's races. I had consciously tried to resist the impact of horror
on my mind, had tried to put it aside as a natural reaction and one
which did not necessarily mean that this expedition from space was a
horrible threat to men. I had tried to accept their ways as not
necessarily monstrous, but as a different way of life that _could_ be as
good a way as our own if I once understood it. There were attractive
points about the Zervs and even about these Schrees' rulers which bore
out this impulse toward tolerance in me.

But in this laboratory--or _abattoir_--some nameless, ominous aura or
smell or electric force--what it was I know not--struck at my already
staggering understanding with a final blow.

Now at last I met the real Schrees! I knew without asking. SECONDARY
DEMENTIA follows after some other form of insanity,--chiefly melancholia
or mania. Dementia may be acute or chronic.

SENILE (OLD AGE) DEMENTIA may be Primary.--Acute dementia attacks both
sexes, but it occurs most often in females, though in a milder
degree. It is a disease of youth, being rarely seen beyond thirty
years of age. It seems to depend often upon exhausting influences
operating at a period of rapid growth. Monotony of thought and
feeling or want of mental food can also induce it.It was also increasingly plain that the
four-limbed insect creatures had in the beginning been the cultured
race, been the fathers of the science and culture of this race, had
through the centuries lost their dominance to the Zervs and the Schree's
upper classes--had retained the "priest" role as their own place in
society. It was perhaps at that time that their science had brought the
Schree type into existence. There were perhaps a hundred of them at work
in the big chamber--a chamber bewilderingly filled with hanging surgical
non-glare lights, filling the place with a shadowless illumination,
revealing great, gurgling bottles of fluid with tubes and gleaming metal
rods; pulsing elastic bulbs; throbbing little pumps, with row on row of
gauges and dials and little levers along the walls.

There were a score of ominous-looking operating tables, some occupied,
some empty, about them gathered group after group of white-masked
Schrees. These were taller than men, near seven feet, with very bony
arms and legs, a skeletal structure altered into attenuation, with
high, narrow skulls, great liquid eyes, no brows, hairless skulls
showing bare and pointed above the white surgical masks.

Very like the Jivro caste, yes, but different as men are different from
insect. They walked with a long graceful stride, not hopping as the
priests' class. Their eyes were mournful and liquid with a dog-like
softness, their hands were snake-quick and long, they looked like
sad-faced ghouls busy about the dismemberment of a corpse--a corpse of
someone they had loved, and they appearing very sad about the necessity.
Such was their appearance; mournful, ghoulish, yet human and warm in a
repressed, frustrated way.

The tall, sad-eyed Schrees turned from the preparation of two rigs like
dental chairs, except that they were not that at all, but only similarly
surrounded with gadgetry incomprehensible to me. We had stood isolated,
waiting, with four guards between us and the door.

As we were each placed in one of these chairs, our wrists and ankles
fastened with straps of metal, I expected almost any horrible torture to
be inflicted upon us.

They shot a beam of energy through my head and I heard words, sentences,
a rapid expounding of alien grammar and pronunciation which sank deep
into my brain. My memory was being ineradicably written upon with all
the power needed to make of me whatever they wanted. But apparently
their only purpose now was to give me a complete understanding of their
language. An hour, two, swept by, and now the heretofore almost
unintelligible gibberish about me became to my ears distinct and
understandable words. I was now acquainted with the tongue of the
Schrees, far better than little Nokomee had taught me the somewhat
different tongue of the Zervs.

Then they wrapped about my waist and chest a strong net of metal mesh,
and I knew that now something strenuous was going to occur, for I could
not move a muscle because of the complete wrapping of metal mesh.


Now a metal disk was set to swinging in front of my nose so that I could
not see what they were doing to my companion. I watched the metal disk,
and saw behind it the tall swaying figure of the Queen enter and
approach. She stopped a few feet from my chair, and her eyes were intent
upon me. Then a light flashed blindingly in the reflecting disk, it went
back and forth faster and faster, and I felt a strong vibration of
energy pass in a beam through my head, throbbing, throbbing ... darkness
engulfed me. It was a darkness that was a black whirlwind of emotion.
The sense of the desertion by humankind, by God and mercy and
rationality swept through me and overwhelmed my inner self. I will never
forget the utter agony of shrieking pain and loss that formed a whirling
ocean of darkness into which I dived....

In this maelstrom of seeming destruction I lost all grip, had no will,
was at sea mentally. Into this shrieking hurricane of madness a calm
voice intruded. I recognized a familiar note--it was the ruler herself,
her voice no longer bored, but with a cruel curiosity that I knew meant
to be satisfied if it killed me.

"Tell me what your people intend to do about the flying saucers they
speak of in their newspapers?"

"They do not believe they exist; they are told they are delusions," I
heard myself answering. I was surprised to hear my voice, for it came
with no conscious volition on my part.

"That is for the public; that is a lie. But what do the powers behind
the scenes intend to do about them?"

"They are searching for them, to learn all they can about them. They do
not understand where they come from, but they have some information.
They suspect they are from space, and are afraid of them."

"And they sent you here to learn what you could. They brought you the
golden statuette to help you gain an entry, did they not?"

I tried to resist the impulse to tell the truth, for I could realize
that if she thought I had the power of my government behind me, my fate
might be different than if I did not. I tried to say "yes, they sent
me," but I could not! I answered like an automaton:

"No, my government has no knowledge of my expedition. I came purely to
get gold and for no other reason. Mining is my business."

She gave a little exclamation of frustration. Then after a pause she
asked:

"Do you think our way of life and your own could live together in peace,
could grow to be one?"

Again I made futile efforts to hide my revulsion and fear of them all.
It was no use. The flood of force pouring through my head was more
effective than any truth serum.

"No, to me you are horrors, and my people would never consent to live at
peace with you. You could never conquer us. Until the last of our
cultured members were dead they would resist the horrible practices of
your culture."

"That is as I surmised," she mused. "But I would have you tell me why
this is so. What is it you find so revolting about us."

"What have you done to my companions? Do you think men want that to
happen to them?"

"That was a punishment for entering here without permission. That would
not happen to any but enemies."

"Men could never accept the altering of the shapes of workers, the
tinkering with the hereditary form of their children, the artificial
grafting upon our race of revolting and unnecessary form changes. Your
whole science is a degeneration of wisdom into evil, tampering with life
itself. You are horrors, and you do not know it."

I could hear her steps as she turned and left, tapping angrily upon the
floor. After her I could hear the shuffling, heavier tread of her
retinue. As the flood of vibration ceased, I began to curse aloud for
the undiplomatic truths I had been forced to utter. In seconds my arms
were free, and I was led out, a tall grim-faced guard on each side, with
a firm grip on my arms. I wondered what was happening to the lovely
Zoorph, but I did not get a chance to look. I was thrown into a cell,
and the heavy wooden door shut. The thud of a bar dropped in place
punctuated the evening's experience with a glum finality.

       *       *       *

I lay for hours with my mind in a whirl from the effects of the truth
ray. Jivros, or insect-priests, moved phantom-like before my sleepless
eyes, watching from the dark and waiting. Gradually my thinking became
more normal, and I began a systematic analysis and summing up of what I
had learned of these people. There were but a few members of the ruling
groups, and it was evident the rule was split between the Jivro caste of
the insect men and some normal-appearing groups who had divided the
power with them in the past. Under these were the Schrees, and under
these the malformed working caste or castes. The Schrees had contact
with some space-state, the Zervs were outcasts of the ruler caste who
had been driven from that space-state--perhaps more than one
planet--sometime in the past and had hid out upon earth until recently
located by the power that ruled on their home planets. Now they were
fugitive and nearly powerless, and I knew the Zervs were few in number
from my own observation. There were perhaps a hundred, perhaps two
hundred. They had contact with some of the Jivros with whom they were
familiar, but the appearance of Jake and Noldi and Polter among the
workmen in the city told me that these Jivros could be traitors to them,
could be giving new allegiance to the conquerors of the Zervs. My mind
centered on two facts. The Jivro caste were the real source of the evil
in these people. It was their unnatural attitude toward human life which
had made this race the horror it was, and they were still exercising
that evil influence.

Morning came through a high barred window, and after a while food came,
slid beneath the door. I did not see the bearer of the food, though I
called out in curiosity. He did not answer, only shuffled wearily away.

