Transcribed from the 1869 London National Society edition by David Price,
email ccx074@pglaf.org


WOMEN AND POLITICS.


BY THE
REV. CANON KINGSLEY.

_REPRINTED FROM_ '_MACMILLAN'S MAGAZINE_.'

Published by the London National Society for Women's Suffrage.

LONDON:
PRINTED BY
SPOTTISWOODE & CO., NEW-STREET SQUARE, FARRINGDON STREET
AND 80 PARLIAMENT STREET, WESTMINSTER
1869.


WOMEN AND POLITICS. {3}


Somewhat more than 300 years ago, John Knox, who did more than any man to
mould the thoughts of his nation--and indeed of our English Puritans
likewise--was writing a little book on the 'Regiment of Women,' in which
he proved woman, on account of her natural inferiority to man, unfit to
rule.

Quin. Marry, our play is the most lamentable comedy, and most cruel death
of Pyramus and Thisby.

Bot. A very good piece of work, I assure you, and a merry. Now, good Peter
Quince, call forth your actors by the scrowl.

Masters, spread yourselves.

Quin. Answer as I call you. Nick Bottom the weaver!

Bot. Ready: Name what part I am for, and proceed.

Quin. You, Nick Bottom, are set down for Pyramus.

Bot. What is Pyramus, a lover, or a tyrant?

Quin. A lover that kills himself most gallantly for love.

Bot. That will ask some tears in the true performing of it: If I do
it let the audience look to their eyes; I will move storms; I will
condole in some measure. To the rest; yet, my chief humour is for
a tyrant; I could play Ercles rarely, or a part to tear a cat in.

"To make all split the raging rocks and shivering shocks shall break the
locks of prison-gates, and Phibbus carr shall shine from far, and make
and mar the foolish fates!" This was lofty. Now name the rest of the
players. This is Ercles vein, a tyrant's vein; a lover is more
condoling.

Quin. Francis Flute, the bellows-mender.

Flu. Here, Peter Quince.

Quin. Flute, you must take Thisby on you.

Flu. What is Thisby, a wand'ring knight?

Quin. It is the Lady that Pyramus must love.

Flu. Nay, faith, let not me play a woman, I have a beard coming.

Quin. That's all one, you shall play it in a mask, and you may speak
small as you will.

Bot. An I may hide my face, let me play Thisby too; I'll speak in a
monstrous little voice; Thisne, Thisne, ah Pyramus my lover dear,
thy Thisby dear, and lady dear.

Quin. No, no, you must play Pyramus; and Flute, you Thisby.

Bot. Well, proceed.

Quin. Robin Starveling, the Taylor.

Star. Here, Peter Quince.
Quin. Robin Starveling, you must play Thisby's mother:
Tom Snowt, the tinker.

Snowt. Here, Peter Quince.
Quin. You, Pyramus's father; myself, Thisby's father; Snug the
joiner, you the Lion's part; I hope there is a play fitted.
Snug. Have you the Lion's part written? Pray you, if it be, give
it me, for I am slow of study.
Quin. You may do it extempore, for it is nothing but roaring.
Bot. Let me play the Lion too, I will roar, that I will do any man's
heart good to hear me. I will roar, that I will make the Duke say,
let him roar again, let him roar again!
Quin. If you should do it too terribly, you would fright the Dutchess
and the Ladies, that they would shriek, and that were enough to
hang us all.

All. That would hang us every mother's son.
Bot. I grant you, friends, if you should fright the Ladies out of
their wits, they would have no more discretion but to hang us; but
I will aggravate my voice so, that I will roar you as gently as any
sucking dove; I will roar you an 'twere any nightingale.
Quin. You can play no part but Pyramus, for Pyramus is a sweet fac'd
man, a proper man as one shall see in a summer's day; a most lovely
gentleman-like man: therefore you must needs play Pyramus.
Bot. Well, I will undertake it. What beard were I best to play it
in?

Quin. Why what you will.
Bot. I will discharge it in either your straw-colour'd beard, your
orange-tawny beard, your purple-in-grain beard, or your
French-crown-colour'd beard, your perfect yellow.
Quin. Some of your French-crowns have no hair at all, and then you
will play bare-fac'd. But, masters here are your parts, and I am
to intreat you, request you, and desire you to con them by to-morrow
night; and meet me in the palace-wood, a mile without the town, by
moonlight, there we will rehearse; for if we meet in the city, we
shall be dog'd with company, and our devices known.In England, the
passionate loyalty with which Elizabeth was regarded, at least during the
latter part of her reign, scattered to the winds all John Knox's
arguments against the 'Regiment of Women;' and a literature sprang up in
which woman was set forth no longer as the weakling and the temptress,
but as the guide and the inspirer of man.  Whatever traces of the old
foul leaven may be found in Beaumont and Fletcher, Massinger, or Ben
Jonson, such books as Sidney's 'Arcadia,' Lyly's 'Euphues,' Spenser's
'Fairy Queen,' and last, but not least, Shakespeare's Plays, place the
conception of woman and of the rights of woman on a vantage-ground from
which I believe it can never permanently fall again--at least until
(which God forbid) true manhood has died out of England.  To a boy whose
notions of his duty to woman had been formed, not on Horace and Juvenal,
but on Spenser and Shakespeare,--as I trust they will be some day in
every public school,--Mr. John Stuart Mill's new book would seem little
more than a text-book of truths which had been familiar and natural to
him ever since he first stood by his mother's knee.

I say this not in depreciation of Mr. Mill's book.  I mean it for the
very highest praise.  M. Agassiz says somewhere that every great
scientific truth must go through three stages of public opinion.  Men
will say of it, first, that it is not true; next, that it is contrary to
religion; and lastly, that every one knew it already.  The last assertion
of the three is often more than half true.  In many cases every one ought
to have known the truth already, if they had but used their common sense.
The great antiquity of the earth is a case in point.  Forty years ago it
was still untrue; five-and-twenty years ago it was still contrary to
religion.  Now every child who uses his common sense can see, from
looking at the rocks and stones about him, that the earth is many
thousand, it may be many hundreds of thousands of years old; and there is
no difficulty now in making him convince himself, by his own eyes and his
own reason, of the most prodigious facts of the glacial epoch.

And so it ought to be with the truths which Mr. Mill has set forth.  If
the minds of lads can but be kept clear of Pagan brutalities and mediaeval
superstitions, and fed instead on the soundest and noblest of our English
literature, Mr. Mill's creed about women will, I verily believe, seem to
them as one which they have always held by instinct; as a natural
deduction from their own intercourse with their mothers, their aunts,
their sisters: and thus Mr. Mill's book may achieve the highest triumph
of which such a book is capable; namely--that years hence young men will
not care to read it, because they take it all for granted.

There are those who for years past have held opinions concerning women
identical with those of Mr. Mill.  They thought it best, however, to keep
them to themselves; trusting to the truth of the old saying, 'Run not
round after the world.  If you stand still long enough, the world will
come round to you.'  And the world seems now to be coming round very fast
towards their standing-point; and that not from theory, but from
experience.  As to the intellectual capacity of girls when competing with
boys (and I may add as to the prudence of educating boys and girls
together), the experience of those who for twenty years past have kept up
mixed schools, in which the farmer's daughter has sat on the same bench
with the labourer's son, has been corroborated by all who have tried
mixed classes, or have, like the Cambridge local examiners, applied to
the powers of girls the same tests as they applied to boys; and still
more strikingly by the results of admitting women to the Royal College of
Science in Ireland, where young ladies have repeatedly carried off prizes
for scientific knowledge against young men who have proved themselves, by
subsequent success in life, to have been formidable rivals.  On every
side the conviction seems growing (a conviction which any man might have
arrived at for himself long ago, if he would have taken the trouble to
compare the powers of his own daughters with those of his sons), that
there is no difference in kind, and probably none in degree, between the
intellect of a woman and that of a man; and those who will not as yet
assent to this are growing more willing to allow fresh experiments on the
question, and to confess that, after all (as Mr. Fitch well says in his
report to the Schools Inquiry Commission), 'The true measure of a woman's
right to knowledge is her capacity for receiving it, and not any theories
of ours as to what she is fit for, or what use she is likely to make of
it.'

This is, doubtless, a most important concession.  For if it be allowed to
be true of woman's capacity for learning, it ought to be--and I believe
will be--allowed to be true of all her other capacities whatsoever.  From
which fresh concession results will follow, startling no doubt to those
who fancy that the world always was, and always will be, what it was
yesterday and to-day: but results which some who have contemplated them
steadily and silently for years past, have learnt to look at not with
fear and confusion, but with earnest longing and high hope.

However startling these results may be, it is certain from the books, the
names whereof head this article, that some who desire their fulfilment
are no mere fanatics or dreamers.  They evince, without exception, that
moderation which is a proof of true earnestness.  Mr. Mill's book it is
almost an impertinence in me to praise.  I shall not review it in detail.
It is known, I presume, to every reader of this Magazine, either by
itself or reviews: but let me remind those who only know the book through
reviews, that those reviews (however able or fair) are most probably
written by men of inferior intellect to Mr. Mill, and by men who have not
thought over the subject as long and as deeply as he has done; and that,
therefore, if they wish to know what Mr. Mill thinks, it would be wisest
for them to read Mr. Mill himself--a truism which (in these days of
second-hand knowledge) will apply to a good many books beside.  But if
they still fancy that the advocates of 'Woman's Rights' in England are of
the same temper as certain female clubbists in America, with whose
sayings and doings the public has been amused or shocked, then I beg them
to peruse the article on the 'Social Position of Women,' by Mr. Boyd
Kinnear; to find any fault with it they can; and after that, to show
cause why it should not be reprinted (as it ought to be) in the form of a
pamphlet, and circulated among the working men of Britain to remind them
that their duty toward woman coincides (as to all human duties) with
their own palpable interest.  I beg also attention to Dr. Hodgson's
little book, 'Lectures on the Education of Girls, and Employment of
Women;' and not only to the text, but to the valuable notes and
references which accompany them.  Or if any one wish to ascertain the
temper, as well as the intellectual calibre of the ladies who are
foremost in this movement, let them read, as specimens of two different
styles, the Introduction to 'Woman's Work, and Woman's Culture,' by Mrs.
Butler, and the article on 'Female Suffrage,' by Miss Wedgewood, at p.
247.  I only ask that these two articles should be judged on their own
merits--the fact that they are written by women being ignored meanwhile.
After that has been done, it may be but just and right for the man who
has read them to ask himself (especially if he has had a mother), whether
women who can so think and write, have not a right to speak, and a right
to be heard when they speak, of a subject with which they must be better
acquainted than men--woman's capacities, and woman's needs?

If any one who has not as yet looked into this 'Woman's Question' wishes
to know how it has risen to the surface just now, let them consider these
words of Mrs. Butler.  For if we miss our musical pitch, we shall be all
'sham'd and abandon'd.

   Quin. Ay, ay! Nothing goes down so well as a little of your sol, fa,
   and long quaver; therefore let us be in our airs--and for better
   assurance I have got the pitch pipe.

Bot.Then, my Queen, in silence sad, Trip
   we after the night's shade, We the globe can compass soon,
   Swifter than the wand'ring moon.
   
   Queen. Come, my lord, and in our flight, Tell me, how it came this
night, That I sleeping here was found, With yon mortal on the
ground.Thus a demand for employment has led naturally to a demand for improved
education, fitting woman for employment; and that again has led,
naturally also, to a demand on the part of many thoughtful women for a
share in making those laws and those social regulations which have, while
made exclusively by men, resulted in leaving women at a disadvantage at
every turn.  They ask--and they have surely some cause to ask--What
greater right have men to dictate to women the rules by which they shall
live, than women have to dictate to men?  All they demand--all, at least,
that is demanded in the volumes noticed in this review--is fair play for
women; 'A clear stage and no favour.'  Let 'natural selection,' as Miss
Wedgwood well says, decide which is the superior, and in what.  Let it,
by the laws of supply and demand, draught women as well as men into the
employments and positions for which they are most fitted by nature.  To
those who believe that the laws of nature are the laws of God, the _Vox
Dei in rebus revelata_; that to obey them is to prove our real faith in
God, to interfere with them (as we did in social relations throughout the
Middle Ages, and as we did till lately in commercial relations likewise)
by arbitrary restrictions is to show that we have no faith in God, and
consider ourselves wise enough to set right an ill-made universe--to them
at least this demand must seem both just and modest.

Meanwhile, many women, and some men also, think the social status of
women is just now in special peril.  The late extension of the franchise
has admitted to a share in framing our laws many thousands of men of that
class which--whatever be their other virtues, and they are many--is most
given to spending their wives' earnings in drink, and personally
maltreating them; and least likely--to judge from the actions of certain
trades--to admit women to free competition for employment.  Further
extension of the suffrage will, perhaps, in a very few years, admit many
thousands more.  And it is no wonder if refined and educated women, in an
age which is disposed to see in the possession of a vote the best means
of self-defence, should ask for votes, for the defence, not merely of
themselves, but of their lowlier sisters, from the tyranny of men who are
as yet--to the shame of the State--most of them altogether uneducated.

As for the reasonableness of such a demand, I can only say--what has been
said elsewhere--that the present state of things, 'in which the franchise
is considered as something so important and so sacred that the most
virtuous, the most pious, the most learned, the most wealthy, the most
benevolent, the most justly powerful woman, is refused it, as something
too precious for her; and yet it is entrusted, freely and hopefully, to
any illiterate, drunken, wife-beating ruffian who can contrive to keep a
home over his head,' is equally unjust and absurd.

There may be some sufficient answer to the conclusion which conscience
and common sense, left to themselves, would draw from this statement of
the case as it now stands: but none has occurred to me which is not
contrary to the first principle of a free government.

This I presume to be: that every citizen has a right to share in choosing
those who make the laws; in order to prevent, as far as he can, laws
being made which are unjust and injurious to him, to his family, or to
his class; and that all are to be considered as 'active' citizens, save
the criminal, the insane, or those unable to support themselves.  The
best rough test of a man's being able to support himself is, I doubt not,
his being able to keep a house over his head, or, at least, a permanent
lodging; and that, I presume, will be in a few years the one and
universal test of active citizenship, unless we should meanwhile obtain
the boon of a compulsory Government education, and an educational
franchise founded thereon.  But, it must be asked--and answered also--What
is there in such a test, even as it stands now, only partially applied,
which is not as fair for women as it is for men?  Queen. Come, wait
upon him, lead him to my bow'r.
The moon, methinks, looks with a watry eye, And when she weeps, weep
ev'ry little flower, Lamenting some enforced chastity.
Tie up my love's tongue, bring him silently. [Exeunt.

SCENE Another part of the Wood.

Enter Oberon.

Ob. I wonder if Titania be awak'd:
Then what it was that next came in her eye, Which she must doat on in
extremity?

Enter Puck.

Here comes my messenger! how now, mad sprite!
What night-rule now about this haunted grove?

Puck. My mistress with a mortal is in love.

Ob. This falls out well and fortunate in truth; Now to my Queen, and
beg her Indian youth:
And then I will her charmed eye release From mortals view, and all things
shall be peace.
Away, away, make no delay, We may effect this business yet ere day. [Exit
Puck.

AIR.

Up and down, up and down, We will trip it up and down.
We will go through field and town, We will trip it up and down.
[Exit Oberon.

SCENE The Wood and Bower.
Enter Queen of Fairies, Bottom; Fairies attending and the King
behind them.

Queen. Come, sit thee down upon this flowery bed.
Say wilt thou hear some music sweet dove.
Bot. I have a reasonable good ear in music.
DUET. By 1st and 2d Fairy.
Welcome, welcome to this place, Favorite of the Fairy Queen; Zephyrs,
play around his face, Wash, ye dews, his graceful mien.
Pluck the wings from butterflies, To fan the moon-beams from his
eyes; Round him in eternal spring Grashoppers and crickets sing.
By the spangled starlight sheen, Nature's joy he walks the green;
Sweet voice, fine shape, and graceful mien, Speak him thine, O Fairy
Queen!

Queen. Or say, sweet love, what thou desir'st to eat.
I have a ventrous Fairy that shall seek The squirrels hoard, and
fetch thee new nuts.
Bot. I pray you, let none of your people stir me; I have an exposition
of sleep come upon me.
Queen. Sleep thou, and I will wind thee in my arms; Fairies begone,
and be always away.
So doth the woodbine the sweet honeysuckle Gently entwist.
O how I love thee! how I doat on thee! [They sleep.
Enter Puck, at one door, Oberon and 1st Fairy at another.
Ob. Welcome, good Robin! See'st thou this sweet sight?Who does not know, if he knows
anything of society, the truth of Mr. Butler's words?--'It is a very
generally accepted axiom, and one which it seems has been endorsed by
thoughtful men, without a sufficiently minute examination into the truth
of it, that a man--in the matter of maintenance--means generally a man, a
wife and children; while a woman means herself alone, free of dependence.
A closer inquiry into the facts of life would prove that conclusions have
been too hastily adopted on the latter head.  I believe it may be said
with truth that there is scarcely a female teacher in England, who is not
working for another or others besides herself,--that a very large
proportion are urged on of necessity in their work by the dependence on
them of whole families, in many cases of their own aged parents,--that
many hundreds are keeping broken-down relatives, fathers, and brothers,
out of the workhouse, and that many are widows supporting their own
children.  A few examples, taken at random from the lists of governesses
applying to the Institution in Sackville Street, London, would illustrate
this point.  And let it be remembered that such cases are the rule, and
not the exception.  Indeed, if the facts of life were better known, the
hollowness of this defence of the inequality of payment would become
manifest; for it is in theory alone that in families man is the only
bread-winner, and it is false to suppose that single women have no
obligations to make and to save money as sacred as those which are
imposed on a man by marriage; while there is this difference, that a man
may avoid such obligation if he pleases, by refraining from marriage,
while the poverty of parents, or the dependence of brothers and sisters,
are circumstances over which a woman obliged to work for others has no
control.'

True: and, alas! too true.  But what Mr. Butler asserts of governesses
may be asserted, with equal truth, of hundreds of maiden aunts and maiden
sisters who are not engaged in teaching, but who spend their money, their
time, their love, their intellect, upon profligate or broken-down
relations, or upon their children; and who exhibit through long years of
toil, anxiety, self-sacrifice, a courage, a promptitude, a knowledge of
business and of human nature, and a simple but lofty standard of duty and
righteousness, which if it does not fit them for the franchise, what can?

It may be, that such women would not care to use the franchise, if they
had it.  That is their concern, not ours.  Voters who do not care to vote
may be counted by thousands among men; some of them, perhaps, are wiser
than their fellows, and not more foolish; and take that method of showing
their wisdom.  Be that as it may, we are no more justified in refusing a
human being a right, because he may not choose to exercise it, than we
are in refusing to pay him his due, because he may probably hoard the
money.

Why then may you leave a casement of the great chamber window, where we
play, open, and the moon may shine in at the casement.

Quin. Ay, or else one must come in with a bush of throns and a lanthern;
and say he comes to disfigure or to present the person of moon-shine.
Then there is another thing; we must have a wall in the great chamber,
for Pyramus and Thisby (says the story) did talk through the chink of a
wall.

Snug. You can never bring in a wall. What say you, Bottom?

Bot. Some man or other must present wall; and let him have some
plaster, or some loome, or some rough-cast, about him, to signify
wall: Or let him hold his fingers thus, and through the cranny shall
Pyramus and Thisby whisper.

Quin. If that may be, then all is well.Might
not (as Mr. Boyd Kinnear urges in an article as sober and rational as it
is earnest and chivalrous) their purity and earnestness help to make what
is now called politics somewhat more pure, somewhat more earnest?  Might
not the presence of the voting power of a few virtuous, experienced, well-
educated women, keep candidates, for very shame, from saying and doing
things from which they do not shrink, before a crowd of men who are, on
the average, neither virtuous, experienced, or well-educated, by
wholesome dread of that most terrible of all earthly punishments--at
least in the eyes of a manly man--the fine scorn of a noble woman?  Might
not the intervention of a few women who are living according to the
eternal laws of God, help to infuse some slightly stronger tincture of
those eternal laws into our legislators and their legislation?  What
women have done for the social reforms of the last forty years is known,
or ought to be known, to all.  Might not they have done far more, and
might not they do far more hereafter, if they, who generally know far
more than men do of human suffering, and of the consequences of human
folly, were able to ask for further social reforms, not merely as a boon
to be begged from the physically stronger sex, but as their will, which
they, as citizens, have a right to see fulfilled, if just and possible?
Woman has played for too many centuries the part which Lady Godiva plays
in the old legend.  It is time that she should not be content with
mitigating by her entreaties or her charities the cruelty and greed of
men, but exercise her right, as a member of the State, and (as I believe)
a member of Christ and a child of God, to forbid them.

As for any specific difference between the intellect of women and that of
men, which should preclude the former meddling in politics, I must
confess that the subtle distinctions drawn, even by those who uphold the
intellectual equality of women, have almost, if not altogether, escaped
me.  The only important difference, I think, is, that men are generally
duller and more conceited than women.  The dulness is natural enough, on
the broad ground that the males of all animals (being more sensual and
selfish) are duller than the females.  The conceit is easily accounted
for.  The English boy is told from childhood, as the negro boy is, that
men are superior to women.  The negro boy shows his assent to the
proposition by beating his mother, the English one by talking down his
sisters.  That is all.

But if there be no specific intellectual difference (as there is actually
none), is there any practical and moral difference?  I use the two
epithets as synonymous; for practical power may exist without acuteness
of intellect: but it cannot exist without sobriety, patience, and
courage, and sundry other virtues, which are 'moral' in every sense of
that word.

I know of no such difference.  There are, doubtless, fields of political
action more fitted for men than for women; but are there not again fields
more fitted for women than for men?--fields in which certain women, at
least, have already shown such practical capacity, that they have
established not only their own right, but a general right for the able
and educated of their sex, to advise officially about that which they
themselves have unofficially mastered.  Who will say that Mrs. Fry, or
Miss Nightingale, or Miss Burdett Coutts, is not as fit to demand pledges
of a candidate at the hustings on important social questions as any male
elector; or to give her deliberate opinion thereon in either House of
Parliament, as any average M.P. or peer of the realm?  And if it be said
that these are only brilliant exceptions, the rejoinder is, What proof
have you of that?  You cannot pronounce on the powers of the average till
you have tried them.  These exceptions rather prove the existence of
unsuspected and unemployed strength below.  If a few persons of genius,
in any class, succeed in breaking through the barriers of routine and
prejudice, their success shows that they have left behind them many more
who would follow in their steps if those barriers were but removed.  This
has been the case in every forward movement, religious, scientific, or
social.  A daring spirit here and there has shown his fellow-men what
could be known, what could be done; and behold, when once awakened to a
sense of their own powers, multitudes have proved themselves as capable,
though not as daring, as the leaders of their forlorn hope.  Dozens of
geologists can now work out problems which would have puzzled Hutton or
Werner; dozens of surgeons can perform operations from which John Hunter
would have shrunk appalled; and dozens of women, were they allowed,
would, I believe, fulfil in political and official posts the hopes which
Miss Wedgwood and Mr. Boyd Kinnear entertain.

But, after all, it is hard to say anything on this matter, which has not
been said in other words by Mr. Come from the farthest steep of
India?
But that, forsooth, the bouncing Amazon, Your buskin'd mistress, and
your warrior love, To Theseus must be wedded; and you come To give
their bed joy and prosperity.

   Ob. How canst thou thus, for shame, Titania, Glance at my credit
   with Hippolita, Knowing I know thy love to Theseus?
   Didst thou not lead him through the glimmering night From Perigune,
   whom he ravished, And make him, with fair Egle, break his faith
   With Ariadne and Antiopa?
   
   Queen. These are the forgeries of jealousy:
   And never since that middle summer's spring Met we on hill, in dale,
   forest, or mead, To dance our ringlets to the whistling wind, But with
   thy brawls thou hast disturb'd our sport.
   The spring, the summer, The chiding autumn, angry winter, change Their
   wonted liveries; and the amazed world By their increase now knows not
   which is which; And this same progeny of evil comes From our debate,
   from our dissention, We are their parents and original.
   
   Ob. Do you amend it then, it lies in you.
   Why should Titania cross her Oberon?
   I do but beg a little changling boy To be my henchman.
   
   Queen.

Set your heart at rest, The Fairy-land buys not the child of me.
His mother was a votress of my order, And in the spiced Indian air by night
Full often she hath gossipt by my side; And sat with me on Neptune's
yellow sands.
Marking th' embarked traders of the flood, When we have laught to see
the sails conceive, And grow big-bellied with the wanton wind; Which
she, with pretty and with swimming gait, Would imitate, and sail upon
the land, To fetch me trifles, and return again As from a voyage rich
with merchandize; But she being mortal of that boy did die, And for her
sake I do rear up her boy, And for her sake I will not part with
him.

Ob. How long within this wood intend you stay?

Queen. Perchance till after Theseus' wedding-day.
If you will patiently dance in our round, And see our moon-light revels,
go with us; If not, shun me, and I will spare your haunts.

Ob. Give me that boy, and I'll go with thee.

Queen. Not for thy Fairy kingdom.

AIR. DUET.
Queen. Away, away, I will not stay, But fly from rage and thee.
King. Begone, begone, You'll feel anon What 'tis to injure me.
Queen. Away, false man!
Do all you can, I scorn your jealous rage!
King. We will not part; Take you my heart!
Give me your favourite page.

Queen. I'll keep my page!
King. And I my rage!
Nor shall you injure me.

Queen. Away, away!
I will not stay, But fly from rage and thee.
Both. Away, away, &c. [Exe. Queen, &c.
Ob. Well, go thy way; thou shalt not from this grove, Till I torment
thee for this injury-- My gentle Puck, come hither:
There is a flow'r, the herb I shew'd thee once, The juice of it on
sleeping eyelids laid, Will make a man or woman madly doat Upon the
next live creature that it sees.
Fetch me that herb, and be thou here again Ere the leviathan can
swim a league.
Puck. I'll put a girdle round about the earth In forty minutes.
[Exit.

Ob.Startling as this may sound to some, I assert that it is true.

We must recollect that the just complaints of the insufficient education
of girls proceed almost entirely from that 'lower-upper' class which
stocks the professions, including the Press; that this class furnishes
only a small portion of the whole number of voters; that the vast
majority belong (and will belong still more hereafter) to other classes,
of whom we may say, that in all of them the girls are better educated
than the boys.  They stay longer at school--sometimes twice as long.  They
are more open to the purifying and elevating influences of religion.
Their brains are neither muddled away with drink and profligacy, or
narrowed by the one absorbing aim of turning a penny into five farthings.
They have a far larger share than their brothers of that best of all
practical and moral educations, that of family life.  Any one who has had
experience of the families of farmers and small tradesmen, knows how
boorish the lads are, beside the intelligence, and often the refinement,
of their sisters.  The same rule holds (I am told) in the manufacturing
districts.  Even in the families of employers, the young ladies are, and
have been for a generation or two, far more highly cultivated than their
brothers, whose intellects are always early absorbed in business, and too
often injured by pleasure.  The same, I believe, in spite of all that has
been written about the frivolity of the girl of the period, holds true of
that class which is, by a strange irony, called 'the ruling class.'  I
suspect that the average young lady already learns more worth knowing at
home than her brother does at the public school.  Those, moreover, who
complain that girls are trained now too often merely as articles for the
so-called 'marriage market,' must remember this--that the great majority
of those who will have votes will be either widows, who have long passed
all that, have had experience, bitter and wholesome, of the realities of
life, and have most of them given many pledges to the State in the form
of children; or women who, by various circumstances, have been early
withdrawn from the competition of this same marriage-market, and have
settled down into pure and honourable celibacy, with full time, and
generally full inclination, to cultivate and employ their own powers.  I
know not what society those men may have lived in who are in the habit of
sneering at 'old maids.'  My experience has led me to regard them with
deep respect, from the servant retired on her little savings to the
unmarried sisters of the rich and the powerful, as a class pure,
unselfish, thoughtful, useful, often experienced and able; more fit for
the franchise, when they are once awakened to their duties as citizens,
than the average men of the corresponding class.  I am aware that such a
statement will be met with 'laughter, the unripe fruit of wisdom.'  But
that will not affect its truth.

Let me say a few words more on this point.  There are those who, while
they pity the two millions and a half, or more, of unmarried women
earning their own bread, are tempted to do no more than pity them, from
the mistaken notion that after all it is their own fault, or at least the
fault of nature.  They ought (it is fancied) to have been married: or at
least they ought to have been good-looking enough and clever enough to be
married.  They are the exceptions, and for exceptions we cannot
legislate.  We must take care of the average article, and let the refuse
take care of itself.  I have put plainly, it may be somewhat coarsely, a
belief which I believe many men hold, though they are too manly to
express it.  But the belief itself is false.  It is false even of the
lower classes.  Among them, the cleverest, the most prudent, the most
thoughtful, are those who, either in domestic service or a few--very few,
alas!--other callings, attain comfortable and responsible posts which
they do not care to leave for any marriage, especially when that marriage
puts the savings of their life at the mercy of the husband--and they see
but too many miserable instances of what that implies.  The very
refinement which they have acquired in domestic service often keeps them
from wedlock.  'I shall never marry,' said an admirable nurse, the
daughter of a common agricultural labourer.  'After being so many years
among gentlefolk, I could not live with a man who was not a scholar, and
did not bathe every day.'

There are things in this Comedy of Pyramus and Thisby, that will never
please. First, Pyramus must draw a sword to kill himself, which the
Ladies cannot abide. How answer you that?

Snout. By'rlaken, a parlous fear!

Starv. I believe we must leave the killing out, when all is done.

Bot. Not a whit; I have a device to make all well; write me a prologue,
and let the prologue seem to say, we will do no harm with our swords, and
that Pyramus is not kill'd indeed; and for more better assurance
tell them, that I Pyramus am not Pyramus, but Bottom the weaver:
this will put them out of fear.

Quin. Well, we will have such a prologue, and it shall be written in eight
and six.

Bot. No, make it two more; let it be written in eight and eight.

Snout.

Will not the Ladies be afraid of the Lion?

Starv. I fear it, I promise you.

Bot. Masters, you ought to consider with yourselves; to bring in, heaven
shield us! a Lion among Ladies, is a most dreadful thing; for there
is not a more fearful wildfowl than your Lion, living; and we ought
to look to it.
Snout. Therefore another prologue must tell he is not a Lion.
Bot. Nay, you must name his name, and half his face must be seen
through the lion's neck; and he himself must speak through, saying
thus, or to the same defect: Ladies, or fair Ladies, I would wish
you, or I would request you, or I would intreat you, not to fear,
not to tremble; my life for yours; if you think I come hither as a
lion, it were pity of my life; no, I am no such thing; I am a man
as other men are; and there indeed let him name his name, and tell
them plainly, He is Snug the Joiner.They are independent and
self-supporting units of the State, owing to it exactly the same
allegiance as, and neither more nor less than, men who have attained
their majority.  They are favoured by no privilege, indulgence, or
exceptional legislation from the State, and they ask none.  They expect
no protection from the State save that protection for life and property
which every man, even the most valiant, expects, since the carrying of
side-arms has gone out of fashion.  They prove themselves daily, whenever
they have simple fair play, just as capable as men of not being a burden
to the State.  They are in fact in exactly the same relation to the State
as men.  Why are similar relations, similar powers, and similar duties
not to carry with them similar rights?  To this question the common sense
and justice of England will have soon to find an answer.  I have
sufficient faith in that common sense and justice, when once awakened, to
face any question fairly, to anticipate what that answer will be.

* * * * *

_Spottiswoode & Co._, _Printers_, _New-street Square and_ 30 _Parliament
Street_.


Footnotes:


{3}  'The Subjection of Women.'  By John Stuart Mill.--'Woman's Work and
Woman's Culture.'  Edited by Josephine Butler.--'Education of Girls, and
Employment of Women.'  By W. B. Hodgson, LD.D.--'On the Study of Science
by Women.'  By Lydia Ernestine Becker.  (_Contemporary Review_, March
1869.)