Produced by Tapio Riikonen and David Widger


PASSAGES FROM THE ENGLISH NOTE-BOOKS

OF

NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE


VOL. II.


PASSAGES FROM HAWTHORNE'S ENGLISH NOTE-BOOKS.


I should not dare to detach my gaze, well knowing that beyond the
dark clouds the sweet Sun still shines.

So far, O my God, I understand Thy Love for me. But Thou knowest how often
I forget this, my only care. I stray from Thy side, and my scarcely
fledged wings become draggled in the muddy pools of earth; then I lament
"like a young swallow,"[19] and my lament tells Thee all, and I remember,
O Infinite Mercy! that "Thou didst not come to call the just, but
sinners.
In a few moments, a tall gentleman with white hair came in,--a
fine and intelligent-looking man, whom I guessed to be one of those who
were to meet me.  He walked about, glancing at the periodicals; and soon
entered Mr. Tupper, and, without seeing me, exchanged warm greetings with
the white-haired gentleman.  "I suppose," began Mr. Tupper, "you have
come to meet--"  Now, conscious that my name was going to be spoken, and
not knowing but the excellent Mr. Tupper might say something which he
would not, quite like me to overhear, I advanced at once, with
outstretched hand, and saluted him.  He expressed great joy at the
recognition, and immediately introduced me to Mr. Hall.

The dining-room was pretty large and lofty, and there were sixteen guests
at table, most of them authors, or people connected with the press; so
that the party represented a great deal of the working intellect of
London at this present day and moment,--the men whose plays, whose songs,
whose articles, are just now in vogue.  Mr. Tom Taylor was one of the
very few whose writings I had known anything about.  He is a tall,
slender, dark young man, not English-looking, and wearing colored
spectacles, so that I should readily have taken him for an American
literary man.  I did not have much opportunity of talking with him, nor
with anybody else, except Dr. ------, who seemed a shrewd, sensible man,
with a certain slight acerbity of thought.  Mr. Herbert Ingram, recently
elected member of Parliament, was likewise present, and sat on Bennoch's
left.

It was a very good dinner, with an abundance of wine, which Bennoch sent
round faster than was for the next day's comfort of his guests.  It is
singular that I should thus far have quite forgotten W------ H--------,
whose books I know better than those of any other person there.  He is a
white-headed, stout, firm-looking, and rather wrinkled-faced old
gentleman, whose temper, I should imagine, was not the very sweetest in
the world.  There is all abruptness, a kind of sub-acidity, if not
bitterness, in his address; he seemed not to be, in short, so genial as I
should have anticipated from his books.

As soon as the cloth was removed, Bennoch, without rising from his chair,
made a speech in honor of his eminent and distinguished guest, which
illustrious person happened to be sitting in the selfsame chair that I
myself occupied.  I have no recollection of what he said, nor of what I
said in reply, but I remember that both of us were cheered and applauded
much more than the occasion deserved.  Then followed about fifty other
speeches; for every single individual at table was called up (as Tupper
said, "toasted and roasted"), and, for my part, I was done entirely brown
(to continue T-----'s figure).  Everybody said something kind, not a word
or idea of which can I find in my memory.  Certainly, if I never get any
more praise in my life, I have had enough of it for once.  I made another
little bit of a speech, too, in response to something that was said in
reference to the present difficulties between England and America, and
ended, as a proof that I deemed war impossible, with drinking success to
the British army, and calling on Lieutenant Shaw, of the Aldershott Camp,
to reply.  I am afraid I must have said something very wrong, for the
applause was vociferous, and I could hear the gentlemen whispering about
the table, "Good!" "Good!" "Yes, he is a fine fellow,"--and other such
ill-earned praises; and I took shame to myself, and held my tongue
(publicly) the rest of the evening.  But in such cases something must be
allowed to the excitement of the moment, and to the effect of kindness
and goodwill, so broadly and warmly displayed; and even a sincere man
must not be held to speak as if he were under oath.

We separated, in a blessed state of contentment with one another, at
about eleven; and (lest I should starve before morning) I went with Mr.
D------ to take supper at his house in Park Lane.  Mr. D------ is a pale
young gentleman, of American aspect, being a West-Indian by birth.  He is
one of the principal writers of editorials for the Times.  We were
accompanied in the carriage by another gentleman, Mr. M------, who is
connected with the management of the same paper.  He wrote the letters
from Scutari, which drew so much attention to the state of the hospitals.
Mr. D------ is the husband of the former Miss ------, the actress, and
when we reached his house, we found that she had just come home from the
theatre, and was taking off her stage-dress.  Anon she came down to the
drawing-room,--a seemingly good, simple, and intelligent lady, not at all
pretty, and, I should think, older than her husband.  She was very kind
to me, and told me that she had read one of my books--The House of the
Seven Gables--thirteen years ago; which I thought remarkable, because I
did not write it till eight or nine years afterwards.

The principal talk during supper (which consisted of Welsh-rabbit and
biscuits, with champagne and sodawater) was about the Times, and the two
contributors expressed vast admiration of Mr. ------, who has the chief
editorial management of the paper.  It is odd to find how little we
outsiders know of men who really exercise a vast influence on affairs,
for this Mr. ------ is certainly of far more importance in the world than
a minister of state.  He writes nothing himself; but the character of the
Times seems to depend upon his intuitive, unerring judgment; and if ever
he is absent from his post, even for a day or two, they say that the
paper immediately shows it.  In reply to my questions, they appeared to
acknowledge that he was a man of expediency, but of a very high
expediency, and that he gave the public the very best principles which it
was capable of receiving.  Perhaps it may be so: the Times's articles are
certainly not written in so high a moral vein as might be wished; but
what they lack in height they gain in breadth.  Every sensible man in
England finds his own best common-sense there; and, in effect, I think
its influence is wholesome.

Apropos of public speaking, Dr. ------ said that Sir Lytton Bulwer asked
him (I think the anecdote was personal to himself) whether he felt his
heart beat when he was going to speak.  "Yes."  "Does your voice frighten
you?"  "Yes."  "Do all your ideas forsake you?"  "Yes."  "Do you wish the
floor to open and swallow you?"  "Yes."  "Why, then, you'll make an
orator!"  Dr. ------  told of Canning, too, how once, before rising to
speak in the House of Commons, he bade his friend feel his pulse, which
was throbbing terrifically.  "I know I shall make one of my best
speeches," said Canning, "because I'm in such an awful funk!"  President
Pierce, who has a great deal of oratorical power, is subject to a similar
horror and reluctance.


REFORM-CLUB DINNER.


April 5th.--On Thursday, at eight o'clock, I went to the Reform Club, to
dine with Dr. ------.  The waiter admitted me into a great basement hall,
with a tessellated or mosaic or somehow figured floor of stone, and
lighted from a dome of lofty height.  In a few minutes Dr. ------
appeared, and showed me about the edifice, which is very noble and of a
substantial magnificence that was most satisfactory to behold,--no
wood-work imitating better materials, but pillars and balustrades of
marble, and everything what it purports to be.  The reading-room is very
large, and luxuriously comfortable, and contains an admirable library:
there are rooms and conveniences for every possible purpose; and whatever
material for enjoyment a bachelor may need, or ought to have, he can
surely find it here, and on such reasonable terms that a small income
will do as much for him as a far greater one on any other system.

In a colonnade, on the first floor, surrounding the great basement hall,
there are portraits of distinguished reformers, and black niches for
others yet to come.  Joseph Hume, I believe, is destined to fill one of
these blanks; but I remarked that the larger part of the portraits,
already hung up, are of men of high rank,--the Duke of Sussex, for
instance; Lord Durham, Lord Grey; and, indeed, I remember no commoner.
In one room, I saw on the wall the fac-simile, so common in the United
States, of our Declaration of Independence.

Descending again to the basement hall, an elderly gentleman came in, and
was warmly welcomed by Dr. ------.  He was a very short man, but with
breadth enough, and a back excessively bent,--bowed almost to deformity;
very gray hair, and a face and expression of remarkable briskness and
intelligence.  His profile came out pretty boldly, and his eyes had the
prominence that indicates, I believe, volubility of speech, nor did he
fail to talk from the instant of his appearance; and in the tone of his
voice, and in his glance, and in the whole man, there was something
racy,--a flavor of the humorist.  His step was that of an aged man, and
he put his stick down very decidedly at every footfall; though as he
afterwards told me that he was only fifty-two, he need not yet have been
infirm.  But perhaps he has had the gout; his feet, however, are by no
means swollen, but unusually small.  Dr. ------ introduced him as Mr.
Douglas Jerrold, and we went into the coffee-room to dine.

The coffee-room occupies one whole side of the edifice, and is provided
with a great many tables, calculated for three or four persons to dine
at; and we sat down at one of these, and Dr. ------ ordered some
mulligatawny soup, and a bottle of white French wine.  The waiters in the
coffee-room are very numerous, and most of them dressed in the livery of
the Club, comprising plush breeches and white-silk stockings; for these
English Reformers do not seem to include Republican simplicity of manners
in their system.  Neither, perhaps, is it anywise essential.

After the soup, we had turbot, and by and by a bottle of Chateau Margaux,
very delectable; and then some lambs' feet, delicately done, and some
cutlets of I know not what peculiar type; and finally a ptarmigan, which
is of the same race of birds as the grouse, but feeds high up towards the
summits of the Scotch mountains.  Then some cheese, and a bottle of
Chambertin.  It was a very pleasant dinner, and my companions were both
very agreeable men; both taking a shrewd, satirical, yet not ill-natured,
view of life and people, and as for Mr. Douglas Jerrold, he often
reminded me of E---- C------, in the richer veins of the latter, both by
his face and expression, and by a tincture of something at once wise and
humorously absurd in what he said.  But I think he has a kinder, more
genial, wholesomer nature than E----, and under a very thin crust of
outward acerbity I grew sensible of a very warm heart, and even of much
simplicity of character in this man, born in London, and accustomed
always to London life.

I wish I had any faculty whatever of remembering what people say; but,
though I appreciate anything good at the moment, it never stays in my
memory; nor do I think, in fact, that anything definite, rounded,
pointed, separable, and transferable from the general lump of
conversation was said by anybody.  I recollect that they laughed at
Mr. ------, and at his shedding a tear into a Scottish river, on occasion
of some literary festival. . . . They spoke approvingly of Bulwer, as
valuing his literary position, and holding himself one of the brotherhood
of authors; and not so approvingly of Charles Dickens, who, born a
plebeian, aspires to aristocratic society.  But I said that it was easy
to condescend, and that Bulwer knew he could not put off his rank, and
that he would have all the advantages of it in spite of his authorship.
We talked about the position of men of letters in England, and they said
that the aristocracy hated and despised and feared them; and I asked why
it was that literary men, having really so much power in their hands,
were content to live unrecognized in the State.

Douglas Jerrold talked of Thackeray and his success in America, and said
that he himself purposed going and had been invited thither to lecture.
I asked him whether it was pleasant to a writer of plays to see them
performed; and he said it was intolerable, the presentation of the
author's idea being so imperfect; and Dr. ------ observed that it was
excruciating to hear one of his own songs sung.  Jerrold spoke of the
Duke of Devonshire with great warmth, as a true, honest, simple, most
kind-hearted man, from whom he himself had received great courtesies and
kindnesses (not, as I understood, in the way of patronage or essential
favors); and I (Heaven forgive me!) queried within myself whether this
English reforming author would have been quite so sensible of the Duke's
excellence if his Grace had not been a duke.  But indeed, a nobleman, who
is at the same time a true and whole-hearted man, feeling his brotherhood
with men, does really deserve some credit for it.

In the course of the evening, Jerrold spoke with high appreciation of
Emerson; and of Longfellow, whose Hiawatha he considered a wonderful
performance; and of Lowell, whose Fable for Critics he especially
admired.  I mentioned Thoreau, and proposed to send his works to Dr.
------, who, being connected with the Illustrated News, and otherwise a
writer, might be inclined to draw attention to then.  Douglas Jerrold
asked why he should not have them too.  I hesitated a little, but as he
pressed me, and would have an answer, I said that I did not feel quite so
sure of his kindly judgment on Thoreau's books; and it so chanced that I
used the word "acrid" for lack of a better, in endeavoring to express my
idea of Jerrold's way of looking at men and books.  It was not quite what
I meant; but, in fact, he often is acrid, and has written pages and
volumes of acridity, though, no doubt, with an honest purpose, and from a
manly disgust at the cant and humbug of the world.  Jerrold said no more,
and I went on talking with Dr. ------; but, in a minute or two, I became
aware that something had gone wrong, and, looking at Douglas Jerrold,
there was an expression of pain and emotion on his face.  By this time a
second bottle of Burgundy had been opened (Clos Vougeot, the best the
Club could produce, and far richer than the Chambertin), and that warm
and potent wine may have had something to do with the depth and vivacity
of Mr. Jerrold's feelings.  But he was indeed greatly hurt by that little
word "acrid."  "He knew," he said, "that the world considered him a sour,
bitter, ill-natured man; but that such a man as I should have the sane
opinion was almost more than he could bear."  As he spoke, he threw out
his arms, sank back in his seat, and I was really a little apprehensive
of his actual dissolution into tears.  Hereupon I spoke, as was good
need, and though, as usual, I have forgotten everything I said, I am
quite sure it was to the purpose, and went to this good fellow's heart,
as it came warmly from my own.  I do remember saying that I felt him to
be as genial as the glass of Burgundy which I held in my hand; and I
think that touched the very right spot; for he smiled, and said he was
afraid the Burgundy was better than he, but yet he was comforted.  Dr.
------ said that he likewise had a reputation for bitterness; and I
assured him, if I might venture to join myself to the brotherhood of two
such men, that I was considered a very ill-natured person by many people
in my own country.  Douglas Jerrold said he was glad of it.

We were now in sweetest harmony, and Jerrold spoke more than it would
become me to repeat in praise of my own books, which he said he admired,
and he found the man more admirable than his books!  I hope so,
certainly.

We now went to the Haymarket Theatre, where Douglas Jerrold is on the
free list; and after seeing a ballet by some Spanish dancers, we
separated, and betook ourselves to our several homes.  I like Douglas
Jerrold very much.


April 8th.--On Saturday evening, at ten o'clock, I went to a supper-party
at Mr. D------'s, and there met five or six people,--Mr. Faed, a young
and distinguished artist; Dr. Eliotson, a dark, sombre, taciturn,
powerful-looking man, with coal-black hair, and a beard as black,
fringing round his face; Mr. Charles Reade, author of Christie Johnstone
and other novels, and many plays,--a tall man, more than thirty,
fair-haired, and of agreeable talk and demeanor.

On April 6th, I went to the Waterloo station, and there meeting Bennoch
and Dr. ------, took the rail for Woking, where we found Mr. Hall's
carriage waiting to convey us to Addlestone, about five miles off.  On
arriving we found that Mr. and Mrs. Hall had not yet returned from
church.  Their place is an exceedingly pretty one, and arranged in very
good taste.  The house is not large; but is filled, in every room, with
fine engravings, statuettes, ingenious prettinesses or beautifulnesses in
the way of flower-stands, cabinets, and things that seem to have bloomed
naturally out of the characters of its occupants.  There is a
conservatory connected with the drawing-room, and enriched with lovely
plants, one of which has a certain interest as being the plant on which
Coleridge's eyes were fixed when he died.  This conservatory is likewise
beautified with several very fine casts of statues by modern sculptors,
among which was the Greek Slave of Powers, which my English friends
criticised as being too thin and meagre; but I defended it as in
accordance with American ideas of feminine beauty.  From the conservatory
we passed into the garden, but did not minutely examine it, knowing that
Mr. Hall would wish to lead us through it in person.  So, in the mean
time, we took a walk in the neighborhood, over stiles and along by-paths,
for two or three miles, till we reached the old village of Chertsey.  In
one of its streets stands an ancient house, gabled, and with the second
story projecting over the first, and bearing an inscription to the
purport that the poet Cowley had once resided, and, I think, died there.
Thence we passed on till we reached a bridge over the Thames, which at
this point, about twenty-five miles from London, is a narrow river, but
looks clean and pure, and unconscious what abominations the city sewers
will pour into it anon.  WE TEN
Or
The Story of the Roses 
by 
BARBARA YECHTON
Author of "Ingleside," "A Matter of Honor," "Gentle-Heart Stories,"
"Two Knights-Errant," "Little Saint Hilary," "Christine's Inspiration"
With Illustrations by Minna Brown 

[Illustration: "'OH, PAPA!

_PAPA_! SURELY YOU ARE NOT GOING TO _BURN_ THE _FETICH_!'"]

New York Dodd, Mead and Company 1896 Copyright, 1896, by Dodd, Mead
and Co.

All rights reserved.

University Press:
John Wilson and Son, Cambridge, U.S.A.

TO MY DEAR ONES.

_"Thou hast done well thy part, if Thou hast done thy best; As sure as I
am God, I answer For the rest."_

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER PAGE
I. ROSES AND ROSES 1
II. IN THE STUDY 17
III. CONCERNING A PERFORMANCE 25
IV. AND A FETICH 43
V. A FRACAS AND AN ARRIVAL 53
VI. DISPOSING OF A FETICH 72
VII. NEW FRIENDS 92
VIII. A RESOLUTION 109

IX. MAX'S WARD 123
X. IN THE SCHOOLROOM 145
XI. AN AFTERNOON RECEPTION 165
XII. IN THE SHADOW 182

XIII. THROUGH THE SHADOW 200
XIV. A MISSION OF THREE 213
XV. SOME MINORS 230

XVI. AND A MAJOR 254
XVII. NORA'S SECRET 274
XVIII. EXPERIENCES AT ENDICOTT BEACH 283
XIX. HIS BROTHER'S KEEPER 322
XX. A SOLEMN PROMISE 346
XXI. THROUGH THE SLOUGH OF DESPOND 367
XXII. AUF WIEDERSEHEN 378

WE TEN, OR THE STORY OF THE ROSES.

I.

ROSES AND ROSES.

TOLD BY JACK.

When papa said positively that only Phil could go to college,
we all felt so badly for Felix that we held a council in the schoolroom
that very afternoon. At least, six of us did; the other four had been
ruled out by Felix, who declared that "kids were not allowed in council."
Paul and Mädel didn't mind so much,--they're the twins, they're only seven
years old; nor did Alan,--he's the baby; but Kathie was awfully mad: you
see, she's nearly ten, and she does love to hear all that's going
on.
When she gets crying, there's no stopping her, and I tell you she made
things pretty lively round that schoolroom for a little while.
How she did howl! We were so afraid she'd start Alan, and that the noise
would reach papa's study; good-bye then to our council. We got provoked
with Kathie; it was so silly of her to stand there crying like a big
baby, and keeping us back that way.

First Phil called out, "You just stop, this minute, Kathie!" and then,
when she kept right on, he threw the old sofa pillow at her, and
told her to go smother herself; Nora said, "Horrid child!"

in her most disgusted tone, and Nannie and Betty coaxed and coaxed,
trying to quiet her.

[Illustration: "THE SCHOOLROOM VIXEN."]
But nothing had any effect until Felix limped over to his easel.
Felix is lame,--dear old Fee!--but my! isn't he clever! Greek and Latin
are just as easy as--as--anything to him, and he writes stories and
poems,--though nobody knows this 'cept us children and Miss Marston,
and we wouldn't tell for the world,--and he paints the most _beautiful_
pictures you ever saw. Well, as I was telling you, he limped over to
his easel, and took up his brush. "Just keep that charming expression
on your face a few minutes longer, Kathie," he said, "until I get it on
canvas; and I'll paint your picture as the 'Schoolroom Vixen,' and send
it to the Academy. That's right, open your mouth _just_ a little
wider--what a wonderful cavern!

--hullo! why'd you stop crying? I'm not half through."
That quieted my lady! You see she was afraid he was in earnest; and after
Nannie had wiped her eyes for her, and given her the last piece of chocolate
in her box, off she went to the other end of the room, and began playing
house with the twins and Alan under the schoolroom table, as nicely
as you please.

Then the council began. Nannie said it was called to discuss "ways
and means." I suppose by that she meant to see if there was any way that
Felix could go to college too; but, as usual, in a very little while
everybody began to take "sides," and then, the first thing we knew, we
were all talking at the same time, and just as loud as ever we
could.
That's a way we have,--all talking and nobody listening. What a din
there was, until Felix scrambled up on a chair and pounded on the
floor with his cane, and shouted out louder than anybody else: "Who
_am_ I talking to? I _will_ be heard!" That made everybody laugh, and
brought us back to business; but in a few minutes we were just as bad
again.

We're the greatest family for taking sides that you ever heard of, and we
do get so excited over things! Anybody that didn't know would surely think
we were quarrelling, when really we'd just be having a discussion.
I can't see where we got it from, for dear mamma was always just as
sweet and gentle, and goodness knows papa doesn't say ten words in a
day, and those in the very quietest voice. I can't explain it, but it's
a fact all the same that we are a noisy family,--even Nora. Miss
Marston--she's our governess--says it's very vulgar to be noisy, and that
we ought to be ashamed to be so boisterous; but nurse declares--and
I think she's right--that the reason is 'cause "the whole kit an'
crew" (she means us) "come just like steps, one after the other,
an' one ain't got any more right to rule than the other."

You see Phil is seventeen and Alan is five, and between them we eight
come in; so we are "just like steps," as she says.

[Illustration: "PLAYING HOUSE WITH THE TWINS AND ALAN UNDER THE SCHOOLROOM
TABLE."]
Perhaps I'd better tell you a little about each of us, so you'll
understand as I go on: Well, to begin, Phil is a big strong fellow, and
just as full of fun and mischief as he can stick; he just _loves_ to
play practical jokes, but he isn't so fond of study, I can tell you,
and that vexes papa, 'cause he's got it all laid out that Phil's to
be a lawyer. Being the eldest, he seems to think he can order us children
round as he pleases, and of course we won't stand it, and that makes
trouble sometimes.

But Phil's generous; he'd give us anything he's got, particularly to
Felix, he thinks so much of him,--though of course he wouldn't say
so,--so we get along pretty well with him.

Next come Felix and Nannie; they're twins too. I've told you 'most everything
about Fee already. He's awfully cross sometimes, when he isn't well,
and, as Nora says, he really orders us about more than Phil does;
but somehow we don't mind it, 'cause, with all his queerness, he's
the life of the house, and he's got some ways that just make us
love him dearly: mamma used to call him her "lovable crank."

Nannie is devoted to Felix; they're always together. They're trying to
teach themselves the violin, and she reads the same books and studies the
same lessons as he does, to keep up with him; she's clever, too,
now I tell you,--- I'd never get my Greek and Latin perfect if she
didn't help me,--though she doesn't make any fuss over it. Nannie is
an awfully nice girl,--I don't know what we'd do without her; since mamma
died, she's all the time looking after us children, and making
things go smoothly. She doesn't "boss" us a bit, and yet, somehow, she
gets us to do lots of things.
She is real pretty, too,--her eyes are so brown and shiny. It's queer, but
we don't any of us mind telling Nannie when we get into scrapes; she talks
to us at the time, and makes us feel sorry and ashamed, but she never makes
us feel small while she's doing it, and we never hear of it again.

But you wouldn't catch us doing that to Nora!

She comes next, you know, and she's really _very_ pretty, though we
never tell her so, 'cause she's so stuck up already. Felix puts her
into lots of his pictures, and I heard Max Derwent say once that she
was beautiful. Max is papa's friend; he is a grown-up man, though he
isn't as old as papa. He used to come here a lot, and we children like him
first-rate; but now he's in Europe. Well, to come back to Nora: she likes
to be called Eleanor, but we don't do it; she is so fussy and so
very proper that Felix has nick-named her Miss Prim, and we _do_
call her that.

Miss Marston thinks Nora is the best behaved of us all; and sometimes,
when Nannie is in papa's study, she lets her go in the drawing-room and
entertain people that call. You should see the airs that Nora puts on
when she comes upstairs after these occasions; it's too killing for
anything! We boys make lots of fun of her, but she doesn't care a
jot.

And yet, isn't it queer! with all her primness and fine airs, of us all,
Nora cares most for Phil, and he's so untidy and rough; she almost runs
her legs off waiting on him, and half the time he doesn't even say
thank you!

The next after Nora is Betty, our "long-legged tomboy," as Felix
calls her, 'cause she is so tall and so full of mischief.

Just to look at her you'd think she was as mild as a lamb; but in
reality she's wilder than all of us boys put together. I've seen her
slide down the banisters of three flights of stairs, one flight after
the other, balancing papa's breakfast tray on one palm; and for
warwhoops and the ability to make the most hideous faces, she goes ahead
of anything I've ever heard or seen. She is as bad as Phil for playing
jokes, and when she gets in one of her wild moods, the only way Miss
Marston can manage her is to threaten to take her to papa's study;
that brings her to terms every time. For that matter, we none of us
like to go there, though I'm sure papa never scolds, as some people's
fathers do,--I almost wish he would sometimes; he just looks at us; but,
all the same, we don't like to go to the study.

I hope you won't think from what I've said that Betty is a disagreeable
girl, for she isn't at all; I'm really very fond of her, and we're
together a great deal, because I am the next in age to her. She's
awfully quick-tempered, and flies into a rage for almost nothing; but
she's very honest, and she'll own up to a fault like a soldier.

Once in a while we have a falling out, but not often, 'cause I won't
quarrel.
Nannie says that I give in sometimes when I oughtn't to,--she means when
it isn't right to; I guess that's my fault, but I do hate to squabble
with any one,--it's such a bother. I don't know what to tell you about
myself, except that I'm not very bright at my books, though I love to read
stories. It does seem so strange that we shouldn't all be smart, when
papa, as everybody knows, is such a wonderfully clever man. I'm Jack, or,
rather,--to give my full name,--John Minot Rose. I think that's
rather a nice name, but you can't think what fun the whole family make
of it; they call me "a Jack rose," and "Jacqueminot," and "Rosebud,"
and a "sweet-scented flower," and all sorts of absurd names.
Of course it's very silly of them. Betty gets furious over it; but I don't
really care, so what's the use of being angry.

Kathie comes next to me; she is a nice little girl, only she does love
to tattle things, and that makes trouble sometimes. She's very gentle, and
just as pretty as a picture, with her long light curls and pretty, big
blue eyes; but my! isn't she obstinate! She doesn't fly into rages, like
Betty, but she keeps persisting and persisting till she carries her point,
and when she once starts in crying, you may make up your mind she isn't
going to stop in a hurry. But she doesn't mean to be naughty, I'm sure;
and she's the most polite child, and so willing to do things for
people!

Then come the other twins, Paul and Mädel. Paul is a standing joke
with us, he's so solemn; and yet he says such bright, funny things,
in his slow way, that we have to laugh: we call him the "Judge." Mädel
is a little darling, just as jolly and round and sweet as she can be;
nurse says she's going to be a second Nannie. We all make a great deal of
her,--much more than we do of Alan; for though he's the baby, he's so
independent that he doesn't like to be petted.

So now you know all about the Roses; it does seem as if I'd been a long
time telling about them, but you see there are such a lot of us.

Well, to go back to the council. Fee was awfully cut up over his
disappointment, and cranky too; but nobody minded what he said, until,
all at once, Nora got in a tantrum, and declared he was "acting _very_
mean to Phil," that he needn't always expect to have things his own
way, and that papa was perfectly right to give Phil the first chance.
That set Fee off, and in about two minutes we were all mixed up
in the fuss,--taking "sides," you know; that is, all but Phil,--he just
sat hunched up on the arm of the old sofa, swinging one of his long
legs, and scowling, and chewing away on a piece of straw he'd pulled out
of the whisk-broom, and he didn't say a word until Nora turned on him, and
asked him, very indignantly, how he could sit there and let Felix bully
her in that way. Then all at once he seemed to get very mad and
just pitched into Fee.

I don't remember what he said, and I'm glad that I don't, 'cause I
_know_ Phil didn't mean a word of it; but Felix felt awfully hurt. He
got two bright red spots on his cheeks, and he set his lips tight
together, and when Phil stopped to catch his breath, after an unusually
long speech, he got up and pushed his chair back. "It is so pleasant
to hear one's family's honest opinion of one's self," he remarked, in
that sarcastic way he has. "I shall try to remember all that you've said,"
bowing to Phil and Nora, "and I shall endeavour to profit by it. And
as long as I'm such a contemptible and useless member of the community,
I'll relieve you of my company." His voice shook so he could hardly say
the last words, and he started for the door, stumbling over the furniture
as he went. Between you and me, I think his eyes were full of tears, and
that they blurred his glasses so he couldn't see,--did I tell
you that Felix is near-sighted? Well, he is.

"Oh, Phil, how _could_ you say such mean things to your own brother!"

cried out Nannie; and with that she flew after Felix.

That cooled Phil down, and if he didn't turn on Nora! "It's all your fault,"
he said angrily; "you just nagged me on to it. You're never happy unless
you're quarrelling."
This was pretty true, but I don't think it was at all nice of Phil to say
so, and I felt very sorry for Nonie when she burst out crying. Betty
and I were trying to quiet her, when in walked Miss Marston, to know
what all that loud noise and banging of doors meant. We didn't tell
her about the _fracas_, 'cause, though she's pretty good in a way, she
isn't at all the person one would want to tell things to. She carried
the little ones off for their early dinner, and Nora and Betty
too,--"to help," she said.

But I stayed in the schoolroom.

I knew if I went down stairs they'd just keep me trotting about waiting
on them all, and that's such a nuisance! so I curled up on the sofa and
read for a while.

The fire was so bright, and everything was so cozy, that I did wish
some of the others would come in and enjoy it. I was really pleased
when Major and Whiskers came walking in and settled down near me.
They're our dog and cat, and they're good playfellows with us; but
they will fight with each other now and then. At first I enjoyed
my story immensely; it was about a boy who was having the wildest
kind of adventures among the Indians.

I wouldn't go through such exciting times for anything; but I enjoy
reading about 'em, when I'm all safe and comfortable at home.

Well, when it grew too dark to read, I laid my book down and began to think,
and presently it seemed as if a whole pack of Indians were dancing
like wild round me, in full war-paint and feathers, and nipping little
pieces out of my arms and legs. I stood it as long as I could, and then I
began to hit out at 'em. All at once one of the creatures commenced
flourishing his tomahawk at me, getting nearer and nearer all the time.
"I _have_ tried, but I can't get in," he said, grinning horribly, and
the voice sounded just like Phil's; "he's locked his door, and he won't
even answer me,--he's madder than hornets."
[Illustration: "'WHY, _JACK_!' SAID NANNIE."]
"I'm sure you can't blame him: what you said was very unkind, Phil; I
didn't think it of you!" The voice was certainly Nannie's; and yet there
was that horrid old Indian still nipping me.

"I know it, Nan; you needn't rub it in," groaned Phil,--the Indian. "But
really, I didn't mean one word of it, and he ought to have known
that.
Why, Fee's got more brains than the whole crowd of us put together, and if
only one of us can go to college, he ought to be that one. I've
screwed up my courage, and I'm going to speak to father about it."

"Oh, Phil, don't, please don't; it'll be no use. You know there is no
changing papa when his mind is made up. Better let things stand as they
are until Max gets home; it won't be very long, you know. And besides,
I'm sure Felix wouldn't let you give up college for him. But you're a
dear, generous boy, to propose it."
"No, I'm not; I'm a great clumsy, cantankerous animal.

Now if I could only talk as Felix can, I wouldn't mind interviewing the
_pater_ to-morrow; but just as sure as I undertake to say anything
to him, I get so nervous and confused that I act like a fool, and
that provokes him.
He seems to paralyse me. But, all the same, I'm going to talk to him
about this matter to-morrow, Nannie,"--the Indian's voice sank so low
that I could hardly hear it; "I have a feeling that mother would want Fee
to go to college."
I sat up and rubbed my arms that had gone to sleep, and looked
around; I was still on the old sofa, and just a few feet away from
me sat Phil, on the edge of the schoolroom table, and Nannie in a
chair beside him.
Confused and only half awake as I was, my one idea was to slip away
quietly and not let 'em know I'd heard what they had been saying,
for I was sure they wouldn't like that. Nannie says I ought to have
spoken right out; but I do hate to make people feel uncomfortable.
So I swung myself softly to my feet, and--landed hard on Whiskers's
tail!
Of course, after that, there was no hiding that I was there. Poor
Whiskers gave a howl of pain, and, flying at Major, boxed the solemn
old doggie's ears, much to his surprise and wrath, and they had a
free fight on the spot.
"Why, _Jack_!" said Nannie; and I got hot all over, for I just felt
by her tone that she thought I'd been listening.
"Our Jacqueminot, I declare!" cried Phil. "You are a nice young
rosebud, I must say, to be snooping around this way! Come here,
sir!"
He made a dive for me, but I drew back. "I _didn't_ listen!" I
called out. And then I remembered that I really had, only I thought
it was the Indians talking; and, dipping under his arm, I rushed
out of the room as hard as I could go, before he could catch
me.

II.

IN THE STUDY.

TOLD BY JACK.I was
going away without seeing any more than this; but the verger, a friendly
old gentleman, with a hearty Scotch way of speaking, told me that the
crypts were what chiefly interested strangers; and so he guided me down
into the foundation-story of the church, where there is an intricacy and
entanglement of immensely massive and heavy arches, supporting the
structure above.  The view through these arches, among the great shafts
of the columns, was very striking.  In the central part is a monument; a
recumbent figure, if I remember rightly, but it is not known whom it
commemorates.  There is also a monument to a Scotch prelate, which seems
to have been purposely defaced, probably in Covenant times.  These
intricate arches were the locality of one of the scenes in "Rob Roy,"
when Rob gives Frank Osbaldistone some message or warning, and then
escapes from him into the obscurity behind.  In one corner is St. Mungo's
well, secured with a wooden cover; but I should not care to drink water
that comes from among so many old graves.

After viewing the cathedral, I got back to the hotel just in time to go
from thence to the steamer wharf, and take passage up the Clyde.  There
was nothing very interesting in this little voyage.  We passed many
small iron steamers, and some large ones; and green fields along the
river-shores, villas, villages, and all such suburban objects; neither am
I quite sure of the name of the place we landed at, though I think it was
Bowling.  Here we took the railway for Balloch; and the only place or
thing I remember during this transit was a huge bluff or crag, rising
abruptly from a river-side, and looking, in connection with its vicinity
to the Highlands, just such a site as would be taken for the foundation
of a castle.  On inquiry it turned out that this abrupt and double-headed
hill (for it has two summits, with a cleft between) is the site of
Dumbarton Castle, for ages one of the strongest fortresses in Scotland,
and still kept up as a garrisoned place.  At the distance and point of
view at which we passed it, the castle made no show.

Arriving at Balloch, we found it a small village, with no marked
features, and a hotel, where we got some lunch, and then we took a stroll
over the bridge across the Levers, while waiting for the steamer to take
us up Loch Lomond.  It was a beautiful afternoon, warm and sunny; and
after walking about a mile, we had a fine view of Loch Lomond, and of the
mountains around and beyond it,--Ben Lomond among the rest.  It is vain,
at a week's distance, to try to remember the shapes of mountains; so I
shall attempt no description of them, and content myself with saying that
they did not quite come up to my anticipations.  In due time we returned
to our hotel, and found in the coffee-room a tall, white-haired,
venerable gentleman, and a pleasant-looking young lady, his daughter.
They had been eating lunch, and the young lady helped her father on with
his outside garment, and his comforter, and gave him his stick, just as
any other daughter might do,--all of which I mention because he was a
nobleman; and, moreover, had engaged all the post-horses at the inn, so
that we could not continue our travels by land, along the side of Loch
Lomond, as we had first intended.  At four o'clock the railway train
arrived again, with a very moderate number of passengers, who (and we
among them) immediately embarked on board a neat little steamer which was
waiting for us.

The day was bright and cloudless; but there was a strong, cold breeze
blowing down the lake, so that it was impossible, without vast
discomfort, to stand in the bow of the steamer and look at the scenery.
I looked at it, indeed, along the sides, as we passed, and on our track
behind; and no doubt it was very fine; but from all the experience I have
had, I do not think scenery can be well seen from the water.  At any
rate, the shores of Loch Lomond have faded completely out of my memory;
nor can I conceive that they really were very striking.  At a year's
interval, I can recollect the cluster of hills around the head of Lake
Windermere; at twenty years' interval, I remember the shores of Lake
Champlain; but of the shores of this Scottish lake I remember nothing
except some oddly shaped rocks, called "The Cobbler and his Daughter," on
a mountain-top, just before we landed.  But, indeed, we had very
imperfect glimpses of the hills along the latter part of the course,
because the wind had grown so very cold that we took shelter below, and
merely peeped at Loch Lomond's sublimities from the cabin-windows.

The whole voyage up Loch Lomond is, I think, about thirty-two miles; but
we landed at a place called Tarbet, much short of the ultimate point.
There is here a large hotel; but we passed it, and walked onward a mile
or two to Arroquhar, a secluded glen among the hills, where is a new
hotel, built in the old manor-house style, and occupying the site of what
was once a castle of the chief of the MacFarlanes.  Over the portal is a
stone taken from the former house, bearing the date 1697.  There is a
little lake near the house, and the hills shut in the whole visible scene
so closely that there appears no outlet nor communication with the
external world; but in reality this little lake is connected with Loch
Long, and Loch Long is an arm of the sea; so that there is water
communication between Arroquhar and Glasgow.  We found this a very
beautiful place; and being quite sheltered from all winds that blew, we
strolled about late into the prolonged twilight, and admired the outlines
of the surrounding hills, and fancied resemblances to various objects in
the shapes of the crags against the evening sky.  The sun had not set
till nearly, if not quite, eight o'clock; and before the daylight had
quite gone, the northern lights streamed out, and I do not think that
there was much darkness over the glen of Arroquhar that night.  At all
events, before the darkness came, we withdrew into the coffee-room.

We had excellent beds and sleeping-rooms in this new hotel, and I
remember nothing more till morning, when we were astir betimes, and had
some chops for breakfast.  Then our host, Mr. Macregor, who is also the
host of our hotel at Glasgow, and has many of the characteristics of an
American landlord, claiming to be a gentleman and the equal of his
guests, took us in a drosky, and drove us to the shore of Loch Lomond, at
a point about four miles from Arroquhar.  The lake is here a mile and a
half wide, and it was our object to cross to Inversnaid, on the opposite
shore; so first we waved a handkerchief, and then kindled some straw on
the beach, in order to attract the notice of the ferryman at Inversnaid.
It was half an hour before our signals and shoutings resulted in the
putting off of a boat, with two oarsmen, who made the transit pretty
speedily; and thus we got across Loch Lomond.  At Inversnaid there is a
small hotel, and over the rock on which it stands a little waterfall
tumbles into the lake,--a very little one, though I believe it is
reckoned among the other picturesque features of the scene.

We were now in Rob Roy's country, and at the distance of a mile or so,
along the shore of the lake, is Rob Roy's cave, where he and his
followers are supposed to have made their abode in troublous times.
While lunch was getting ready, we again took the boat, and went thither.
Landing beneath a precipitous, though not very lofty crag, we clambered
up a rude pathway, and came to the mouth of the cave, which is nothing
but a fissure or fissures among some great rocks that have tumbled
confusedly together.  There is hardly anywhere space enough for half a
dozen persons to crowd themselves together, nor room to stand upright.
On the whole, it is no cave at all, but only a crevice; and, in the
deepest and darkest part, you can look up and see the sky.  It may have
sheltered Rob Roy for a night, and might partially shelter any Christian
during a shower.

Returning to the hotel, we started in a drosky (I do not know whether
this is the right name of the vehicle, or whether it has a right name,
but it is a carriage in which four persons sit back to back, two before
and two behind) for Aberfoyle.  The mountain-side ascends very steeply
from the inn door, and, not to damp the horse's courage in the outset, we
went up on foot.  The guide-book says that the prospect from the summit
of the ascent is very fine; but I really believe we forgot to turn round
and look at it.  All through our drive, however, we had mountain views in
plenty, especially of great Ben Lomond, with his snow-covered head, round
which, since our entrance into the Highlands, we had been making a
circuit.  Nothing can possibly be drearier than the mountains at this
season; bare, barren, and bleak, with black patches of withered heath
variegating the dead brown of the herbage on their sides; and as regards
trees the hills are perfectly naked.  There were no frightful precipices,
no boldly picturesque features, along our road; but high, weary slopes,
showing miles and miles of heavy solitude, with here and there a highland
hut, built of stone and thatched; and, in one place, an old gray, ruinous
fortress, a station of the English troops after the rebellion of 1715;
and once or twice a village of hills, the inhabitants of which, old and
young, ran to their doors to stare at us.  For several miles after we
left Inversnaid, the mountain-stream which makes the waterfall brawled
along the roadside.  All the hills are sheep-pastures, and I never saw
such wild, rough, ragged-looking creatures as the sheep, with their black
faces and tattered wool.  The little lambs were very numerous, poor
things, coming so early in the season into this inclement region; and it
was laughable to see how invariably, when startled by our approach, they
scampered to their mothers, and immediately began to suck.  It would seem
as if they sought a draught from the maternal udder, wherewith to fortify
and encourage their poor little hearts; but I suppose their instinct
merely drove them close to their dams, and, being there, they took
advantage of their opportunity.  These sheep must lead a hard life during
the winter; for they are never fed nor sheltered.

The day was sunless, and very uncomfortably cold; and we were not sorry
to walk whenever the steepness of the road gave us cause.  I do not
remember what o'clock it was, but not far into the afternoon, when we
reached the Baillie Nicol-Jarvie Inn at Aberfoyle; a scene which is much
more interesting in the pages of Rob Roy than we found it in reality.
Here we got into a sort of cart, and set out, over another hill-path, as
dreary as or drearier than the last, for the Trosachs.  On our way, we
saw Ben Venue, and a good many other famous Bens, and two or three lochs;
and when we reached the Trosachs, we should probably have been very much
enraptured if our eyes had not already been weary with other mountain
shapes.  But, in truth, I doubt if anybody ever does really see a
mountain, who goes for the set and sole purpose of seeing it.  Nature
will not let herself be seen in such cases.  You must patiently bide her
time; and by and by, at some unforeseen moment, she will quietly and
suddenly unveil herself, and for a brief space allow you to look right
into the heart of her mystery.  But if you call out to her peremptorily,
"Nature! unveil yourself this very moment!" she only draws her veil the
closer; and you may look with all your eyes, and imagine that you see all
that she can show, and yet see nothing.  Thus, I saw a wild and confused
assemblage of heights, crags, precipices, which they call the Trosachs,
but I saw them calmly and coldly, and was glad when the drosky was ready
to take us on to Callender.  The hotel at the Trosachs, by the by, is a
very splendid one, in the form of an old feudal castle, with towers and
turrets.  All among these wild hills there is set preparation for
enraptured visitants; and it seems strange that the savage features do
not subside of their own accord, and that there should still be cold
winds and snow on the top of Ben Lomond, and rocks and heather, and
ragged sheep, now that there are so many avenues by which the commonplace
world is sluiced in among the Highlands.  I think that this fashion of
the picturesque will pass away.

We drove along the shore of Lake Vennachar, and onward to Callender,
which I believe is either the first point in the Lowlands or the last in
the Highlands.  It is a large village on the river Teith.  We stopped
here to dine, and were some time in getting any warmth into our benumbed
bodies; for, as I said before, it was a very cold day.  Looking from the
window of the hotel, I saw a young man in Highland dress, with bare
thighs, marching through the village street towards the Lowlands, with a
martial and elastic step, as if he were going forth to conquer and occupy
the world.  I suppose he was a soldier who had been absent on leave,
returning to the garrison at Stirling.  I pitied his poor thighs, though
he certainly did not look uncomfortable.

After dinner, as dusk was coming on and we had still a long drive before
us (eighteen miles, I believe), we took a close carriage and two horses,
and set off for Stirling.  The twilight was too obscure to show many
things along the road, and by the time we drove into Stirling we could
but dimly see the houses in the long street in which stood our hotel.
There was a good fire in the coffee-room, which looked like a
drawing-room in a large old-fashioned mansion, and was hung round with
engravings of the portraits of the county members, and a master of
fox-hounds, and other pictures.  We made ourselves comfortable with some
tea, and retired early.

In the morning we were stirring betimes, and found Stirling to be a
pretty large town, of rather ancient aspect, with many gray stone houses,
the gables of which are notched on either side, like a flight of stairs.
The town stands on the slope of a hill, at the summit of which, crowning
a long ascent, up which the paved street reaches all the way to its gate,
is Stirling Castle.  Of course we went thither, and found free entrance,
although the castle is garrisoned by five or six hundred men, among whom
are barelegged Highlanders (I must say that this costume is very fine and
becoming, though their thighs did look blue and frost-bitten) and also
some soldiers of other Scotch regiments, with tartan trousers.  Almost
immediately on passing the gate, we found an old artillery-man, who
undertook to show us round the castle.  Only a small portion of it seems
to be of great antiquity.  The principal edifice within the castle wall
is a palace, that was either built or renewed by James VI.; and it is
ornamented with strange old statues, one of which is his own.  The old
Scottish Parliament House is also here.  The most ancient part of the
castle is the tower, where one of the Earls of Douglas was stabbed by a
king, and afterwards thrown out of the window.  In reading this story,
one imagines a lofty turret, and the dead man tumbling headlong from a
great height; but, in reality, the window is not more than fifteen or
twenty feet from the garden into which he fell.  This part of the castle
was burned last autumn; but is now under repair, and the wall of the
tower is still stanch and strong.  We went up into the chamber where the
murder took place, and looked through the historic window.

Then we mounted the castle wall, where it broods over a precipice of many
hundred feet perpendicular, looking down upon a level plain below, and
forth upon a landscape, every foot of which is richly studded with
historic events.  There is a small peep-hole in the wall, which Queen
Mary is said to have been in the habit of looking through.  Many others
were put to torture and perished on the rack.
Hélène, surrendering herself to the dominion of guilty love, developed
the ferocity of a tigress.

Sigismond, King of Poland, taking advantage of the general discontent
of the Russians under the sway of Hélène, formed an alliance with the
horde upon the lower waters of the Don, and invaded Russia, burning and
destroying with mercilessness which demons could not have surpassed.
Prince Telennef headed an army to repel them. The pen wearies in describing
the horrors of these scenes. One hundred thousand Russians are now
flying before one hundred and fifty thousand Polanders.

Hundreds of miles of territory are ravaged. Cities and villages are
stormed, plundered, burned; women and children are cut down and trampled
beneath the feet of cavalry, or escape shrieking into the forests,
where they perish of exposure and starvation. But an army of recruits
comes to the aid of the Russians. And now one hundred and fifty
thousand Polanders are driven before two hundred thousand Russians.
They sweep across the frontier like dust driven by the tornado. And now
the cities and villages of Poland blaze; her streams run red with blood.
The Polish wives and daughters in their turn struggle, shriek and
die.

From exhaustion the warfare ceases.

The two antagonists, moaning and bleeding, wait for a few years but to
recover sufficient strength to renew the strife, and then the brutal,
demoniac butchery commences anew. Such is the history of man.

In this brief, but bloody war, the city of Staradoub, in Russia, was besieged
by an army of Poles and Tartars. The assault was urged with the most
desperate energy and fearlessness. The defense was conducted with equal
ferocity. Thousands fell on both sides in every mangled form of
death. At last the besiegers undermined the walls, and placing beneath
hundreds of barrels of gunpowder, as with the burst of a volcano,
uphove the massive bastions to the clouds. They fell in a storm of ruin
upon the city, setting it on fire in many places.
Through the flames and over the smouldering ruins, Poles and Tartars,
blackened with smoke and smeared with blood, rushed into the city, and
in a few hours thirteen thousand of the inhabitants were weltering in their
gore. None were left alive. And this is but a specimen of the wars which
raged for ages. The world now has but the faintest conception of the
seas of blood and woe through which humanity has waded to attain
even its present feeble recognition of fraternity.

In this, as in every war with Poland, Russia was gaining, ever wresting
from her rival the provinces of Lithuania, and attaching them to the
gigantic empire. In the year 1534, Hélène commenced the enterprise of
surrounding the whole of Moscow with a ditch, and a wall capable of
resisting the batterings of artillery. An Italian engineer, named Petrok
Maloi, superintended these works. The foundation of the walls was laid
with imposing religious ceremonies. The wall was crowned with four towers
at the opening of the four gates. Hélène was so conscious of the
importance of augmenting the population of Russia, that she offered land
and freedom from taxes for a term of years to all who would
migrate into her territory from Poland. Perhaps also she had a double
object, wishing to weaken a rival power. Much counterfeit coin was found
to be in circulation. The regent issued an edict, that any one
found guilty of depreciating the current standard of coin, should be
punished with death, and this death was to be barbarously inflicted
by first cutting off the hands of the culprit, and then pouring melted
lead through a tunnel down his throat.

On the 3d of April, 1538, Hélène, in the prime of life, and with all her
sins in full vigor and unrepented, retired to her bed at night,
suddenly and seriously sick. Some one had succeeded in administering to
her a dose of poison.

She shrieked for a few hours in mortal agony, and soon after the
hour of twelve was tolled, her spirit ascended to meet God in judgment.
Being dead, she had no favors to confer and no terrors to execute;
and her festering remains were the same day hurried ignominiously
to the grave.

Her paramour, Telennef, alone wept over her death.

Russia rejoiced, and yet with trembling. Whose strong arm would now seize
the helm of the tempest-torn ship of State, no one could tell.

The young prince, Ivan IV., was but seven years of age at the
death of his mother Hélène. For several days there was ominous silence
in Moscow, the stillness which precedes the storm. The death of the
regent had come so suddenly, so unexpectedly, that none were prepared for
it. A week passed away, during which time parties were forming and
conspiracies ripening, while Telennef was desperately endeavoring to retain
that power which he had so despotically wielded in conjunction
with his royal mistress.

The prince Vassili Schouisky, who had occupied the first place in the
councils of Vassili, opened the drama.
Having secured the coöperation of a large number of nobles, he declared
himself the head of the government, arrested all the favorites of Hélène,
and threw Telennef, bound with chains, into a dungeon. There he was left
to die of starvation--barbarity, which, though in accordance with
that brutal age, even all the similar excesses of Telennef could
not justify.

The beautiful sister of Telennef, Agrippene by name, was torn from the
saloons her loveliness had embellished, and was imprisoned for life
in a convent. The victims of the cruelty of Hélène, who were still
languishing in prison, were set at liberty.

Schouisky was a widower, and in the fiftieth year of his age.

He wished to strengthen his power by engaging the coöperation of
the still formidable energies of the horde at Kezan, and accordingly
married, quite hurriedly, the daughter of the czar of the horde.

But the regal diadem proved to him but a crown of thorns. Conspiracy
succeeded conspiracy, and Schouisky felt compelled to enlist all the
terrors of the dungeon, the scaffold and the block to maintain his
place. Six months only passed away, ere he too was writhing upon the
royal couch in the agonies of death, whether paralyzed by poison or smitten
by the hand of God, the day of judgment alone can reveal.

Ivan Schouisky, the brother of the deceased usurper, now stepped
into the dangerous post which death had so suddenly rendered vacant.
He was a weak man, assuming the most pompous airs, quite unable to
discriminate between imposing grandeur and ridiculous parade. He soon
became both despised and detested. This state of things encouraged the
two hordes of Kezan and Tauride to unite, and with an army of a
hundred thousand men they penetrated Russia almost unopposed, burning
and plundering in all directions.

Under these circumstances the metropolitan bishop, Joseph, a man of sincere
piety and of very elevated character, and who enjoyed in the highest
degree the confidence both of the aristocracy and of the people,
presented himself before the council, urged the incapacity of Ivan
Schouisky to govern, and proposed that Ivan Belsky, a nobleman of
great energy and moral worth, should be chosen regent.

The proposal was carried by acclamation.

So unanimous was the vote, so cordial was the adoption of the republican
principle of election, that Ivan Schouisky was powerless and was merely
dismissed.

The new regent, sustained by the clergy and the aristocracy, governed
the State with wisdom and moderation. All kinds of persecution
ceased, and vigorous measures were adopted for the promotion of the public
welfare. Old abuses were repressed; vicious governors deposed, and the
rising flames of civil strife were quenched. Even the hitherto unheard-of
novelty of trial by jury was introduced. Jurors were chosen from among
the most intelligent citizens.

Though there was some bitter opposition among the corrupt nobles to
these salutary reforms, the clergy, as a body, sustained them, and
so did also even a majority of the lords. It was Christianity and
the church which introduced these humanizing measures.

Among the innumerable tragedies of those days, let one be mentioned
illustrative of the terrific wrongs to which all are exposed under a
despotic government. There was a young prince, Dmitri, a child,
grandson of Vassili the blind, whose claims to the throne were feared.
He was thrown into prison and there forgotten. For forty-nine years he had
now remained in a damp and dismal dungeon. He had committed no crime. He
was accused of no crime. It was only feared that restive nobles
might use him as an instrument for the furtherance of their plans. All
the years of youth and of manhood had passed in darkness and misery.
No beam of the sun ever penetrated his tomb. All unheeded the tides of
life surged in the world above him, while his mind with his body was
wasting away in the long agony.

"O who can tell what days, what nights he spent, Of tideless, waveless,
sailless, shoreless woe."
Mercy now entered his cell, but it was too late even for that angel
visitant to bring a gleam of joy. His friends were all dead. His name
was forgotten on earth. He knew nothing of the world or of its ways.
His mind was enfeebled, and even the slender stock of knowledge
which he had possessed as a child, had vanished away.

They broke off his chains and removed him from his dungeon to a comfortable
chamber. The poor old man, dazzled by the light and bewildered by the
change, lingered joylessly and without a smile for a few weeks and
died.
Immortality alone offers a solution for these mysteries. "After death
cometh the judgment."
The Christian bishop, Joseph, and Ivan Belsky, the regent, in cordial
coöperation, endeavored in all things to promote prosperity and
happiness.

Again there was a coalition of the Tartars for the invasion of
Russia.

The three hordes, in Kezan, in the Tauride and at the mouth of the Volga,
united, and in an army one hundred thousand strong, with numerous cavalry
and powerful artillery, commenced their march. The Russian troops were
hastily collected upon the banks of the Oka, there to take their stand
and dispute the passage of the stream. By order of the clergy, prayers
were offered incessantly in the churches by day and by night, that God
would avert this terrible invasion. The young prince, Ivan IV., was now
ten years of age.

The citizens of Moscow were moved to tears and to the deepest enthusiasm
on hearing their young prince, in the church of the Assumption, offer
aloud and fervently the prayer,
"Oh heavenly Father! thou who didst protect our ancestors against the cruel
Tamerlane, take us also under thy holy protection--us in childhood and
orphanage. Our mind and our body are still feeble, and yet the nation
looks to us for deliverance."
Accompanied by the metropolitan Joseph, he entered the council and said,

"The enemy is approaching. Decide for me whether it be best that I should
remain here or go to meet the foe."
With one voice they exclaimed, "Prince, remain at Moscow."
They then took a solemn oath to die, if necessary, for their prince.
The citizens came forward in crowds and volunteered for the defense of the
walls. The faubourgs were surrounded with pallisades, and batteries of
artillery were placed to sweep, in all directions, the approaches to the
city. The enthusiasm was so astonishing that the Russian annalists
ascribe it to a supernatural cause. On the 30th of July, 1541, the Tartar
army appeared upon the southern banks of the Oka, crowning all the
heights which bordered the stream. Immediately they made an attempt to
force the passage. But the Russians, thoroughly prepared for the assault,
repelled them with prodigious slaughter. Night put an end to the
contest. The Russians were elated with their success, and waited eagerly
for the morning to renew the strife. They even hoped to be able to cross
the river and to sweep the camp of their foes. The fires of their bivouacs
blazed all the night, reinforcements were continually arriving, and their
songs of joy floated across the water, and fell heavily upon the hearts
of the dismayed Tartars.

At midnight the khan, and the whole host, conscious of their peril,
commenced a precipitate retreat, in their haste abandoning many guns
and much of their baggage. The Russians pursued the foe, but were not
able to overtake them, so rapidly did they retrace their steps.

The news of the expulsion of the enemy spread rapidly through Russia.

The conduct of the grand prince everywhere excited the most lively
enthusiasm.

He entered the church, and in an affecting prayer returned thanks to
God for the deliverance. The people, with unanimity, exclaimed,

"Grand prince, your angelic prayers and your happy star have caused
us to triumph."
Awful, however, were the woes which fell upon those people who were
on the line of march of the barbaric Tartars.

Ivan Belsky, the regent, had now attained the highest degree of good fortune,
and in his own conscience, and in the general approbation of the people,
he found ample recompense for his deeds of humanity, and his patriotic
exertions. But envy, that poison of society, raised up against him
enemies. Ivan Schouisky, who had been deposed by vote of the council,
organized a conspiracy among the disaffected nobles, and on the night of
the 3d of January, 1542, three hundred cavaliers surrounded the residences
of the regent and of the metropolitan bishop, seized them and hurried
them to prison, and in the prison finished their work by the
assassination of Ivan Belsky.

Ivan Schouisky, sustained by the sabers of his partisans, reassumed the
government.

A new metropolitan bishop, Macaire was appointed to take the place of
Joseph, who was deposed and imprisoned.

The clergy, overawed, were silent.

The reign of silence was again commenced, and all the posts of honor and
influence were placed in the hands of the partisans of Schouisky. The
government, such as it was, was now in the hands of a triumvirate consisting
of Ivan, André and Feodor. Not a syllable of opposition would these men
endure, and the dungeon and the assassin's poignard silenced all murmurs.
The young prince, Ivan IV., was now thirteen years of age. He was
endowed by nature with a mind of extraordinary sagacity and force,
but his education had been entirely neglected, and the scenes of perfidy
and violence he was continually witnessing were developing, a character
which menaced Russia with many woes.

The infamous Schiouskies sought to secure the friendship of the young
prince by ministering, in every possible way, to his pleasures. They led
him to the chase, encouraged whatever disposition he chanced to manifest,
and endeavored to train him in a state of feebleness and ignorance which
might promote their ambitious plans. The Kremlin became the scene of
constant intrigues. Cabal succeeded cabal. The position of the triumvirate
became, month after month, more perilous.

The young prince gave decisive indications of discontent. It began to be
whispered into his ears that it was time for him to assume the reins
of government, and he was assured that all Russia was waiting, eager
to obey his orders. The metropolitan bishop, either from a sense of
justice or of policy, also espoused the cause of the youthful sovereign.
It was evident that another party was rising into power.

On the 29th of December, 1534, Ivan IV. went with a large party of his lords
to the chase. Instructed beforehand in the measures he was to adopt,
he, quite unexpectedly to the triumvirate, summoned all his lords
around him, and, assuming an imperious and threatening tone, declared
that the triumvirate had abused his extreme youth, had trampled upon
justice, and, as culprits, deserved to die.

In his great clemency, however, he decided to spare the lives of two,
executing only one as an example to the nation. The oldest of the
three, André
Schouisky, was immediately seized and handed over to the conductors of
the hounds.

They set the dogs upon him, and he was speedily torn to pieces in the
presence of the company, and his mangled remains were scattered over the
plain.

The partisans of Schouisky, terrified by this deed, were afraid to utter a
murmur. The nobles generally were alarmed, for it was evident that though
they had escaped the violence of the triumvirate, they had fallen into
hands equally to be dreaded. Confiscations and other acts of rigor
rapidly succeeded, and the young prince, still too youthful to govern
by the decision of his own mind, was quite under the control of the
Glinskys, through whose council he had shaken off the triumvirate
of the Schouiskies. Ivan IV. now made the tour of his kingdom, but with
no other object than the promotion of his personal gratification.

Most of his time was devoted to the excitements of the chase in the savage
forests which spread over a large portion of his realms. He was always
surrounded by a brilliant staff of nobles, and the sufferings of the
people were all concealed from his view. The enormous expenses of his
court were exacted from the people he visited, and his steps were
followed by lamentations.

In the year 1546, Ivan attained the eighteenth year of his age, and made
great preparations for his coronation. The imposing rites were to be
performed at Moscow. On the 16th of January, the grand prince entered
one of the saloons of his palaces while the nobles, the princes,
the officers of the court, all richly dressed, were assembled in
the ante-chamber. The confessor of the grand prince, having received
from Ivan IV. a crucifix, placed it upon a plate of gold with the
crown and other regalia, and conveyed them to the church of the
Assumption accompanied by the grand equerry, Glinsky, and other
important personages of the court. Soon after, the grand prince
also repaired to the church. He was preceded by an ecclesiastic
holding in his hand a crucifix, and sprinkling to the right and to
the left holy water upon the crowd.
Ivan IV., surrounded by all the splendors of his court, entered the
church, where he was encircled by the ecclesiastics, and received
the benediction of the metropolitan bishop. A hymn was then sang
by the accumulated choirs, which astounded the audience; after which
mass was celebrated. In the midst of the cathedral, a platform was
erected, which was ascended by twelve steps. Upon this platform
there were two thrones of equal splendor, covered with cloth of
gold, one for the monarch, the other for the metropolitan bishop.
In front of the stage there was a desk, richly decorated, upon which
were placed the crown regalia. The monarch and the bishop took their
seats. The bishop, rising, pronounced a benediction upon the monarch,
placed the crown upon his head, the scepter in his hand, and then,
with a loud voice, prayed that God would endow this new David with
the influences of the Holy Spirit, establish his throne in
righteousness, and render him terrible to evil doers and a benefactor
to those who should do well.Reaching Melrose . . . . without alighting, we set off for


ABBOTSFORD,


three miles off.  The neighborhood of Melrose, leading to Abbotsford, has
many handsome residences of modern build and very recent date,--suburban
villas, each with its little lawn and garden ground, such as we see in
the vicinity of Liverpool.  I noticed, too, one castellated house, of no
great size, but old, and looking as if its tower were built, not for
show, but for actual defence in the old border warfare.

We were not long in reaching Abbotsford.  The house, which is more
compact, and of considerably less extent than I anticipated, stands in
full view from the road, and at only a short distance from it, lower down
towards the river.  Its aspect disappointed me; but so does everything.
It is but a villa, after all; no castle, nor even a large manor-house,
and very unsatisfactory when you consider it in that light.  Indeed, it
impressed me, not as a real house, intended for the home of human
beings,--a house to die in or to be born in,--but as a plaything,--
something in the same category as Horace Walpole's Strawberry Hill.  The
present owner seems to have found it insufficient for the actual purposes
of life; for he is adding a wing, which promises to be as extensive as
the original structure.

We rang at the front door (the family being now absent), and were
speedily admitted by a middle-aged or somewhat elderly man,--the butler,
I suppose, or some upper servant,--who at once acceded to our request to
be permitted to see the house.  We stepped from the porch immediately
into the entrance-hall; and having the great Hall of Battle Abbey in my
memory, and the ideal of a baronial hall in my mind, I was quite taken
aback at the smallness and narrowness and lowness of this; which,
however, is a very fine one, on its own little scale.  In truth, it is
not much more than a vestibule.  The ceiling is carved; and every inch of
the walls is covered with claymores, targets, and other weapons and
armor, or old-time curiosities, tastefully arranged, many of which, no
doubt, have a history attached to them,--or had, in Sir Walter's own
mind.  Our attendant was a very intelligent person, and pointed out much
that was interesting; but in such a multitudinous variety it was almost
impossible to fix the eye upon any one thing.  Probably the apartment
looked smaller than it really was, on account of being so wainscoted and
festooned with curiosities.  I remember nothing particularly, unless it
be the coal-grate in the fireplace, which was one formerly used by
Archbishop Sharpe, the prelate whom Balfour of Burley murdered.  Either
in this room or the next one, there was a glass case containing the suit
of clothes last worn by Scott,--a short green coat, somewhat worn, with
silvered buttons, a pair of gray tartan trousers, and a white hat.  It
was in the hall that we saw these things; for there too, I recollect,
were a good many walking-sticks that had been used by Scott, and the
hatchet with which he was in the habit of lopping branches from his
trees, as he walked among them.

From the hall we passed into the study;--a small room, lined with the
books which Sir Walter, no doubt, was most frequently accustomed to refer
to; and our guide pointed out some volumes of the Moniteur, which he used
while writing the history of Napoleon.  Probably these were the driest
and dullest volumes in his whole library.  About mid-height of the walls
of the study there is a gallery, with a short flight of steps for the
convenience of getting at the upper books.  A study-table occupied the
centre of the room, and at one end of the table stands an easy-chair,
covered with morocco, and with ample space to fling one's self back.  The
servant told me that I might sit down in this chair, for that Sir Walter
sat there while writing his romances, "and perhaps," quoth the man,
smiling, "you may catch some inspiration."  What a bitter word this would
have been if he had known me to be a romance-writer!  "No, I never shall
be inspired to write romances!" I answered, as if such an idea had never
occurred to me.  I sat down, however.  This study quite satisfied me,
being planned on principles of common-sense, and made to work in, and
without any fantastic adaptation of old forms to modern uses.

Next to the study is the library, an apartment of respectable size, and
containing as many books as it can hold, all protected by wire-work.  I
did not observe what or whose works were here; but the attendant showed
us one whole compartment full of volumes having reference to ghosts,
witchcraft, and the supernatural generally.  It is remarkable that Scott
should have felt interested in such subjects, being such a worldly and
earthly man as he was; but then, indeed, almost all forms of popular
superstition do clothe the ethereal with earthly attributes, and so make
it grossly perceptible.

The library, like the study, suited me well,--merely the fashion of the
apartment, I mean,--and I doubt not it contains as many curious volumes
as are anywhere to be met with within a similar space.  The drawing-room
adjoins it; and here we saw a beautiful ebony cabinet, which was
presented to Sir Walter by George IV.; and some pictures of much
interest,--one of Scott himself at thirty-five, rather portly, with a
heavy face, but shrewd eyes, which seem to observe you closely.  There is
a full-length of his eldest son, an officer of dragoons, leaning on his
charger; and a portrait of Lady Scott,--a brunette, with black hair and
eyes, very pretty, warm, vivacious, and un-English in her aspect.  I am
not quite sure whether I saw all these pictures in the drawing-room, or
some of them in the dining-room; but the one that struck me most--and
very much indeed--was the head of Mary, Queen of Scots, literally the
head cut off and lying on a dish.  It is said to have been painted by an
Italian or French artist, two days after her death.  The hair curls or
flows all about it; the face is of a death-like hue, but has an
expression of quiet, after much pain and trouble,--very beautiful, very
sweet and sad; and it affected me strongly with the horror and
strangeness of such a head being severed from its body.  Methinks I
should not like to have it always in the room with me.  I thought of the
lovely picture of Mary that I had seen at Edinburgh Castle, and reflected
what a symbol it would be,--how expressive of a human being having her
destiny in her own hands,--if that beautiful young Queen were painted as
carrying this dish, containing her own woful head, and perhaps casting a
curious and pitiful glance down upon it, as if it were not her own.

Also, in the drawing-room, there was a plaster cast of Sir Walter's face,
taken after death; the only one in existence, as our guide assured us.
It is not often that one sees a homelier set of features than this; no
elevation, no dignity, whether bestowed by nature or thrown over them by
age or death; sunken cheeks, the bridge of the nose depressed, and the
end turned up; the mouth puckered, and no chin whatever, or hardly any.
The expression was not calm and happy; but rather as if he were in a
perturbed slumber, perhaps nothing short of nightmare.  I wonder that the
family allow this cast to be shown,--the last record that there is of
Scott's personal reality, and conveying such a wretched and unworthy idea
of it.

Adjoining the drawing-room is the dining-room, in one corner of which,
between two windows, Scott died.  It was now a quarter of a century since
his death; but it seemed to me that we spoke with a sort of hush in our
voices, as if he were still dying here, or had but just departed.  I
remember nothing else in this room.  The next one is the armory, which is
the smallest of all that we had passed through; but its walls gleam with
the steel blades of swords, and the barrels of pistols, matchlocks,
firelocks, and all manner of deadly weapons, whether European or
Oriental; for there are many trophies here of East Indian warfare.  "I have
never given the Good God aught but love; it is with Love He will
repay.

AFTER MY DEATH I WILL LET FALL A SHOWER OF ROSES."
At another time she interrupted a Sister, who was speaking to her of the
happiness of Heaven, by the sublime words: "It is not that which
attracts me."
"And what attracts you?" asked the other. "Oh! it is Love! To love, to
be beloved, and _to return to earth to win love for our Love!"_
One evening, she welcomed Mother Agnes of Jesus with an extraordinary
expression of joy: "Mother!" she said, "some notes from a concert far away
have just reached my ears, and have made me think that soon I shall be
listening to the wondrous melodies of Paradise. The thought, however,
gave me but a moment's joy--one hope alone makes my heart beat fast:
the Love that I shall receive and the Love I shall be able to give!

"I feel that my mission is soon to begin--my mission to make others love
God as I love Him . . . to each souls my _little way_ . . .

I WILL SPEND MY HEAVEN IN DOING GOOD UPON EARTH.

Nor is this impossible, since from the very heart of the Beatific Vision,
the Angels keep watch over us. No, there can be no rest for me until
the end of the world.

But when the Angel shall have said: 'Time is no more!' then I shall
rest, then I shall be able to rejoice, because the number of the elect
will be complete."
"And what is this _little way_ that you would teach to souls?"
"IT IS THE WAY OF SPIRITUAL CHILDHOOD, THE WAY OF TRUST AND ABSOLUTE
SELF-SURRENDER.

I want to point out to them the means that I have always found so perfectly
successful, to tell them that there is but one thing to do here below:
we must offer Jesus _the flowers of little sacrifices_ and win
Him by a caress. That is how I have won Him, and that is why I shall
be made so welcome."
"Should I guide you wrongly by my _little way_ of love," she said to a
novice, "do not fear that I shall allow you to continue therein;
I should soon come back to the earth, and tell you to take another
road.

If I do not return, then believe in the truth of these my words: We
can never have too much confidence in the Good God, He is so mighty,
so merciful.

As we hope in Him so shall we receive."
On the eve of the feast of Our Lady of Mount Carmel, a novice said to
her: "I think that if you were to die to-morrow, after Holy Communion, I
should be quite consoled--it would be such a beautiful death!" Thérèse
answered quickly: "Die after Holy Communion! Upon a great feast! Nay,
not so. _In my 'little way' everything is most ordinary; all that I do,
little souls must be able to do likewise."_
And to one of her missionary brothers she wrote: "What draws me to
my Heavenly Home is the summons of my Lord, together with the hope
that at length I shall love Him as my heart desires, and shall be
able to make Him loved by a multitude of souls who will bless Him
throughout eternity."
And in another letter to China: "I trust fully that I shall not
remain idle in Heaven; my desire is to continue my work for the
Church and for souls.However, having no guide-book, we were
none the wiser for what we saw out of the window of the rail-carriage;
but, now and then, a castle appeared, on a commanding height, visible for
miles round, and seemingly in good repair,--now, in some low and
sheltered spot, the gray walls of an abbey; now, on a little eminence,
the ruin of a border fortress, and near it the modern residence of the
laird, with its trim lawn and shrubbery.  We were not long in coming to


BERWICK,


a town which seems to belong both to England and Scotland, or perhaps is
a kingdom by itself, for it stands on both sides of the boundary river,
the Tweed, where it empties into the German Ocean.  From the railway
bridge we had a good view over the town, which looks ancient, with red
roofs on all the gabled houses; and it being a sunny afternoon, though
bleak and chill, the sea-view was very fine.  The Tweed is here broad,
and looks deep, flowing far beneath the bridge, between high banks.  This
is all that I can say of Berwick (pronounced Berrick), for though we
spent above an hour at the station waiting for the train, we were so long
in getting our dinner, that we had not time for anything else.  I
remember, however, some gray walls, that looked like the last remains of
an old castle, near the railway station.  We next took the train for

NEWCASTLE,

the way to which, for a considerable distance, lies within sight of the
sea; and in close vicinity to the shore we saw Holy Isle, on which are
the ruins of an abbey.  Norham Castle must be somewhere in this
neighborhood, on the English shore of the Tweed.  It was pretty late in
the afternoon--almost nightfall--when we reached Newcastle, over the
roofs of which, as over those of Berwick, we had a view from the railway,
and like Berwick, it was a congregation of mostly red roofs; but, unlike
Berwick (the atmosphere over which was clear and transparent), there came
a gush of smoke from every chimney, which made it the dimmest and
smokiest place I ever saw.  This is partly owing to the iron founderies
and furnaces; but each domestic chimney, too, was smoking on its own
account,--coal being so plentiful there, no doubt, that the fire is
always kept freshly heaped with it, reason or none.  Out of this
smoke-cloud rose tall steeples; and it was discernible that the town
stretched widely over an uneven surface, on the banks of the Tyne, which
is navigable up hither ten miles from the sea for pretty large vessels.

We established ourselves at the Station Hotel, and then walked out to see
something of the town; but I remember only a few streets of duskiness and
dinginess, with a glimpse of the turrets of a castle to which we could
not find our way.  So, as it was getting twilightish and very cold, we
went back to the hotel, which is a very good one, better than any one I
have seen in the South of England, and almost or quite as good as those
of Scotland.  The coffee-room is a spacious and handsome apartment,
adorned with a full-length portrait of Wellington, and other pictures,
and in the whole establishment there was a well-ordered alacrity and
liberal provision for the comfort of guests that one seldom sees in
English inns.  There are a good many American guests in Newcastle, and
through all the North.

An old Newcastle gentleman and his friend came into the smoking-room, and
drank three glasses of hot whiskey-toddy apiece, and were still going on
to drink more when we left them.  These respectable persons probably went
away drunk that night, yet thought none the worse of themselves or of one
another for it.  It is like returning to times twenty years gone by for a
New-Englander to witness such simplicity of manners.

The next morning, May 8th, I rose and breakfasted early, and took the
rail soon after eight o'clock, leaving Mr. Bowman behind; for he had
business in Newcastle, and would not follow till some hours afterwards.
There is no use in trying to make a narrative of anything that one sees
along an English railway.  All I remember of this tract of country is
that one of the stations at which we stopped for an instant is called
"Washington," and this is, no doubt, the old family place, where the De
Wessyngtons, afterwards the Washingtons, were first settled in England.
Before reaching York, first one old lady and then another (Quaker) lady
got into the carriage along with me; and they seemed to be going to York,
on occasion of some fair or celebration.  This was all the company I had,
and their advent the only incident.  It was about eleven o'clock when I
beheld York Cathedral rising huge above the old city, which stands on the
river Ouse, separated by it from the railway station, but communicating
by a ferry (or two) and a bridge.  I wandered forth, and found my way
over the latter into the ancient and irregular streets of

YORK,

crooked, narrow, or of unequal width, puzzling, and many of them bearing
the name of the particular gate in the old walls of the city to which
they lead.  There were no such fine, ancient, stately houses as some of
those in Shrewsbury were, nor such an aspect of antiquity as in Chester;
but still York is a quaint old place, and what looks most modern is
probably only something old, hiding itself behind a new front, as
elsewhere in England.

I found my way by a sort of instinct, as directly as possible, to


YORK MINSTER.


It stands in the midst of a small open space,--or a space that looks
small in comparison with the vast bulk of the cathedral.  I was not so
much impressed by its exterior as I have usually been by Gothic
buildings; because it is rectangular in its general outline and in its
towers, and seems to lack the complexity and mysterious plan which
perplexes and wonder-strikes me in most cathedrals.  Doubtless, however,
if I had known better how to admire it, I should have found it wholly
admirable.  At all events, it has a satisfactory hugeness.  Seeking my
way in, I at first intruded upon the Registry of Deeds, which occupies a
building patched up against the mighty side of the cathedral, and hardly
discernible, so small the one and so large the other.  I finally hit upon
the right door, and I felt no disappointment in my first glance around at
the immensity of enclosed space;--I see now in my mind's eye a dim length
of nave, a breadth in the transepts like a great plain, and such an airy
height beneath the central tower that a worshipper could certainly get a
good way towards heaven without rising above it.  I only wish that the
screen, or whatever they call it, between the choir and nave, could be
thrown down, so as to give us leave to take in the whole vastitude at
once.  I never could understand why, after building a great church, they
choose to sunder it in halves by this mid-partition.  But let me be
thankful for what I got, and especially for the height and massiveness of
the clustered pillars that support the arches on which rests the central
tower.  I remember at Furness Abbey I saw two tall pillars supporting a
broken arch, and thought it, the most majestic fragment of architecture
that could possibly be.  But these pillars have a nobler height, and
these arches a greater sweep.  What nonsense to try to write about a
cathedral!

There is a great, cold bareness and bleakness about the interior; for
there are very few monuments, and those seem chiefly to be of
ecclesiastical people.  I saw no armed knights, asleep on the tops of
their tombs; but there was a curious representation of a skeleton, at
full length, under the table-slab of one of the monuments.  The walls are
of a grayish hue, not so agreeable as the rich dark tint of the inside of
Westminster Abbey; but a great many of the windows are still filled with
ancient painted glass, the very small squares and pieces of which are
composed into splendid designs of saints and angels, and scenes from
Scripture.

There were a few watery blinks of sunshine out of doors, and whenever
these came through the old painted windows, some of the more vivid colors
were faintly thrown upon the pavement of the cathedral,--very faintly, it
is true; for, in the first place, the sunshine was not brilliant; and
painted glass, too, fades in the course of the ages, perhaps, like all
man's other works.  There were two or three windows of modern
manufacture, and far more magnificent, as to brightness of color and
material beauty, than the ancient ones; but yet they looked vulgar,
glaring, and impertinent in comparison, because such revivals or
imitations of a long-disused art cannot have the good faith and
earnestness of the originals.  Indeed, in the very coloring, I felt the
same difference as between heart's blood and a scarlet dye.  It is a
pity, however, that the old windows cannot be washed, both inside and
out, for now they have the dust of centuries upon them.

The screen or curtain between the nave and choir has eleven carved
figures, at full length, which appeared to represent kings, some of them
wearing crowns, and bearing sceptres or swords.  They were in wood, and
wrought by some Gothic hand.  These carvings, and the painted windows,
and the few monuments, are all the details that the mind can catch hold
of in the immensity of this cathedral; and I must say that it was a
dreary place on that cold, cloudy day.  I doubt whether a cathedral is a
sort of edifice suited to the English climate.  The first buildings of
the kind were probably erected by people who had bright and constant
sunshine, and who desired a shadowy awfulness--like that of a forest,
with its arched wood-paths--into which to retire in their religious
moments.

In America, on a hot summer's day, how delightful its cool and solemn
depths would be!  The painted windows, too, were evidently contrived, in
the first instance, by persons who saw how effective they would prove
when a vivid sun shone through them.  But in England, the interior of a
cathedral, nine days out of ten, is a vast sullenness, and as chill as
death and the tomb.  At any rate, it was so to-day, and so thought one of
the old vergers, who kept walking as briskly as he could along the width
of the transepts.  There were several of these old men when I first came
in, but they went off, all but this one, before I departed.  None of them
said a word to me, nor I to them; and admission to the Minster seems to
be entirely free.

After emerging from this great gloom, I wandered to and fro about York,
and contrived to go astray within no very wide space.  If its history be
authentic, it is an exceedingly old city, having been founded about a
thousand years before the Christian era.  There used to be a palace of
the Roman emperors here, and the Emperor Severus died here, as did some
of his successors; and Constantine the Great was born here.  I know not
what, if any, relics of those earlier times there may be; but York is
still partly surrounded with a wall, and has several gates, which the
city authorities take pains to keep in repair.  I grow weary in my
endeavor to find my way back to the railway, and inquired it of one of
the good people of York,--a respectable, courteous, gentlemanly person,--
and he told me to walk along the walls.  Then he went on a considerable
distance; but seemed to repent of not doing more for me; so he waited
till I came up, and, walking along by my side, pointed out the castle,
now the jail, and the place of execution, and directed me to the
principal gateway of the city, and instructed me how to reach the ferry.
The path along the wall leads, in one place, through a room over the arch
of a gateway,--a low, thick-walled, stone apartment, where doubtless the
gatekeeper used to lodge, and to parley with those who desired entrance.

I found my way to the ferry over the Ouse, according to this kind
Yorkist's instructions.  The ferryman told me that the fee for crossing
was a halfpenny, which seemed so ridiculously small that I offered him
more; but this unparalleled Englishman declined taking anything beyond
his rightful halfpenny.  This seems so wonderful to me that I can hardly
trust my own memory.

Reaching the station, I got some dinner, and at four o'clock, just as I
was starting, came Mr. Bowman, my very agreeable and sensible travelling
companion.  Our journeying together was ended here; for he was to keep on
to London, and I to return to Liverpool.  So we parted, and I took the
rail westward across England, through a very beautiful, and in some
degree picturesque, tract of country, diversified with hills, through the
valleys and vistas of which goes the railroad, with dells diverging from
it on either hand, and streams and arched bridges, and old villages, and
a hundred pleasant English sights.  After passing Rochdale, however, the
dreary monotony of Lancashire succeeded this variety.  Between nine and
ten o'clock I reached the Tithebarn station in Liverpool.  Ever since
until now, May 17th, I have employed my leisure moments in scribbling off
the journal of my tour; but it has greatly lost by not having been
written daily, as the scenes and occurrences were fresh.  The most
picturesque points can be seized in no other way, and the hues of the
affair fade as quickly as those of a dying dolphin; or as, according to
Audubon, the plumage of a dead bird.

One thing that struck me as much as anything else in the Highlands I had
forgotten to put down.  In our walk at Balloch, along the road within
view of Loch Lomond and the neighboring hills, it was a brilliant
sunshiny afternoon, and I never saw any atmosphere so beautiful as that
among the mountains.  It was a clear, transparent, ethereal blue, as
distinct as a vapor, and yet by no means vaporous, but a pure,
crystalline medium.  I have witnessed nothing like this among the
Berkshire hills nor elsewhere.

York is full of old churches, some of them very antique in appearance,
the stones weather-worn, their edges rounded by time, blackened, and with
all the tokens of sturdy and age-long decay; and in some of them I
noticed windows quite full of old painted glass, a dreary kind of minute
patchwork, all of one dark and dusty hue, when seen from the outside.
Yet had I seen them from the interior of the church, there doubtless
would have been rich and varied apparitions of saints, with their glories
round their heads, and bright-winged angels, and perhaps even the
Almighty Father himself, so far as conceivable and representable by human
powers.  It requires light from heaven to make them visible.  If the
church were merely illuminated from the inside,--that is, by what light a
man can get from his own understanding,--the pictures would be invisible,
or wear at best but a miserable aspect.


LIVERPOOL.


May 24th.--Day before yesterday I had a call at the Consulate from one of
the Potentates of the Earth,--a woolly-haired negro, rather thin and
spare, between forty and fifty years of age, plainly dressed; at the
first glimpse of whom, I could readily have mistaken him for some ship's
steward, seeking to enter a complaint of his captain.  However, this was
President Roberts, of Liberia, introduced by a note from Mrs. O'Sullivan,
whom he has recently met in Madeira.  I was rather favorably impressed
with him; for his deportment was very simple, and without any of the
flourish and embroidery which a negro might be likely to assume on
finding himself elevated from slavery to power.  He is rather shy,
reserved, at least, and undemonstrative, yet not harshly so,--in fine,
with manners that offer no prominent points for notice or criticism;
although I felt, or thought I felt, that his color was continually before
his mind, and that he walks cautiously among men, as conscious that every
new introduction is a new experiment.  He is not in the slightest degree
an interesting man (so far as I discovered in a very brief interview),
apart from his position and history; his face is not striking, nor so
agreeable as if it were jet black; but there may be miles and miles of
depth in him which I know nothing of.  Our conversation was of the most
unimportant character; for he had called merely to deliver the note, and
sat only a few minutes, during which he merely responded to my
observations, and originated no remarks.  Intelligence, discretion,
tact--these are probably his traits; not force of character and
independence.

The same day I took the rail from the Little Street station for


MANCHESTER,


to meet Bennoch, who had asked me thither to dine with him.  I had never
visited Manchester before, though now so long resident within twenty
miles of it; neither is it particularly worth visiting, unless for the
sake of its factories, which I did not go to see.  It is a dingy and
heavy town, with very much the aspect of Liverpool, being, like the
latter, built almost entirely within the present century.  I stopped at
the Albion Hotel, and, as Bennoch was out, I walked forth to view the
city, and made only such observations as are recorded above.  Opposite
the hotel stands the Infirmary,--a very large edifice, which, when
erected, was on the outskirts, or perhaps in the rural suburbs, of the
town, but it is now almost in its centre.  In the enclosed space before
it stands the statue of Peel, and sits a statue of Dr. Dalton, the
celebrated chemist, who was a native of Manchester.

Returning to the hotel, I sat down in the room where we were to dine, and
in due time Bennoch made his appearance, with the same glow and friendly
warmth in his face that I had left burning there when we parted in
London.  If this man has not a heart, then no man ever had.  I like him
inexpressibly for his heart and for his intellect, and for his flesh and
blood; and if he has faults, I do not know them, nor care to know them,
nor value him the less if I did know them.  He went to his room to dress;
and in the mean time a middle-aged, dark man, of pleasant aspect, with
black hair, black eyebrows, and bright, dark eyes came in, limping a
little, but not much.  He seemed not quite a man of the world, a little
shy in manner, yet he addressed me kindly and sociably.  I guessed him to
be Mr. Charles Swain, the poet, whom Mr. Bennoch had invited to dinner.
Soon came another guest whom Mr. Swain introduced to me as Mr. ------,
editor of the Manchester Examiner.  Then came Bennoch, who made us all
regularly acquainted, or took for granted that we were so; and lastly
appeared a Mr. W------, a merchant in Manchester, and a very intelligent
man; and the party was then complete.  Mr. Swain, the poet, is not a man
of fluent conversation; he said, indeed, very little, but gave me the
impression of amiability and simplicity of character, with much feeling.

Mr. W------ is a very sensible man.  He has spent two or three years in
America, and seems to have formed juster conclusions about us than most
of his countrymen do.  He is the only Englishman, I think, whom I have
met, who fairly acknowledges that the English do cherish doubt, jealousy,
suspicion, in short, an unfriendly feeling, towards the Americans.  It is
wonderful how every American, whatever class of the English he mingles
with, is conscious of this feeling, and how no Englishman, except this
sole Mr. W------, will confess it.  He expressed some very good ideas,
too, about the English and American press, and the reasons why the Times
may fairly be taken as the exponent of British feeling towards us, while
the New York Herald, immense as its circulation is, can be considered, in
no similar degree or kind, the American exponent.

These became more numerous in the edition of 1588; but the multitude of
classical texts which at times encumber Montaigne's text, only dates
from the posthumous edition of 1595, he had made these collections in
the four last years of his life, as an amusement of his "idleness."--Le
Clerc. They grow, however, more sparing in the Third Book.]

beyond my purpose and first method, upon the account of idleness and
the humour of the age. If it misbecome me, as I believe it does,
'tis no matter; it may be of use to some others. Such there are who
quote Plato and Homer, who never saw either of them; and I also have taken
things out of places far enough distant from their source. Without
pains and without learning, having a thousand volumes about me in the
place where I write, I can presently borrow, if I please, from a dozen
such scrap-gatherers, people about whom I do not much trouble myself,
wherewith to trick up this treatise of Physiognomy; there needs
no more but a preliminary epistle of a German to stuff me with quotations.
And so it is we go in quest of a tickling story to cheat the foolish
world. These lumber pies of commonplaces, wherewith so many furnish
their studies, are of little use but to common subjects, and serve but
to show us, and not to direct us: a ridiculous fruit of learning, that
Socrates so pleasantly discusses against Euthydemus. I have seen books
made of things that were never either studied or understood; the author
committing to several of his learned friends the examination of this
and t'other matter to compile it, contenting himself, for his share,
with having projected the design, and by his industry to have tied together
this faggot of unknown provisions; the ink and paper, at least, are his.
This is to buy or borrow a book, and not to make one; 'tis to show men
not that he can make a book, but that, whereof they may be in
doubt, he cannot make one.

A president, where I was, boasted that he had amassed together two
hundred and odd commonplaces in one of his judgments; in telling which,
he deprived himself of the glory he had got by it: in my opinion, a
pusillanimous and absurd vanity for such a subject and such a person.

I do the contrary; and amongst so many borrowed things, am glad
if I can steal one, disguising and altering it for some new
service; at the hazard of having it said that 'tis for want of understanding
its natural use; I give it some particular touch of my own hand, to the
end it may not be so absolutely foreign. These set their thefts in show
and value themselves upon them, and so have more credit with the
laws than I have:
we naturalists I think that there is a great and incomparable
preference in the honour of invention over that of allegation.

If I would have spoken by learning, I had spoken sooner; I had written
of the time nearer to my studies, when I had more wit and better memory,
and should sooner have trusted to the vigour of that age than of this,
would I have made a business of writing.

And what if this gracious favour --[His acquaintance with Mademoiselle
de Gournay.]

--which Fortune has lately offered me upon the account of this work,
had befallen me in that time of my life, instead of this, wherein
'tis equally desirable to possess, soon to be lost!

Two of my acquaintance, great men in this faculty, have, in my opinion,
lost half, in refusing to publish at forty years old, that they might
stay till threescore. Maturity has its defects as well as green years, and
worse; and old age is as unfit for this kind of business as any other. He
who commits his decrepitude to the press plays the fool if he think
to squeeze anything out thence that does not relish of dreaming,
dotage, and drivelling; the mind grows costive and thick in growing
old.

I deliver my ignorance in pomp and state, and my learning meagrely and
poorly; this accidentally and accessorily, that principally and
expressly; and write specifically of nothing but nothing, nor of any science
but of that inscience. I have chosen a time when my life, which I am
to give an account of, lies wholly before me; what remains has
more to do with death; and of my death itself, should I find it a
prating death, as others do, I would willingly give an account at
my departure.

Socrates was a perfect exemplar in all great qualities, and I am
vexed that he had so deformed a face and body as is said, and so unsuitable
to the beauty of his soul, himself being so amorous and such an admirer
of beauty: Nature did him wrong. There is nothing more probable than the
conformity and relation of the body to the soul:

"Ipsi animi magni refert, quali in corpore locati sint: multo enim a corpore
existunt, qux acuant mentem: multa qua obtundant;"
["It is of great consequence in what bodies minds are placed, for many
things spring from the body that may sharpen the mind, and many
that may blunt it."--Cicero, Tusc. Quaes., i. 33.]
this refers to an unnatural ugliness and deformity of limbs; but we call
ugliness also an unseemliness at first sight, which is principally lodged
in the face, and disgusts us on very slight grounds: by the complexion,
a spot, a rugged countenance, for some reasons often wholly inexplicable,
in members nevertheless of good symmetry and perfect. The deformity, that
clothed a very beautiful soul in La Boetie, was of this predicament:
that superficial ugliness, which nevertheless is always the most imperious,
is of least prejudice to the state of the mind, and of little certainty
in the opinion of men. The other, which is never properly called
deformity, being more substantial, strikes deeper in. Not every shoe of
smooth shining leather, but every shoe well-made, shews the shape
of the foot within.

As Socrates said of his, it betrayed equal ugliness in his soul, had
he not corrected it by education; but in saying so, I hold he was
in jest, as his custom was; never so excellent a soul formed itself.

I cannot often enough repeat how great an esteem I have for beauty,
that potent and advantageous quality; he (La Boetie) called it "a
short tyranny," and Plato, "the privilege of nature."

We have nothing that excels it in reputation; it has the first place in
the commerce of men; it presents itself in the front; seduces and
prepossesses our judgments with great authority and wonderful
impression. Phryne had lost her cause in the hands of an excellent
advocate, if, opening her robe, she had not corrupted her judges by the
lustre of her beauty. And I find that Cyrus, Alexander, and Caesar, the
three masters of the world, never neglected beauty in their greatest
affairs; no more did the first Scipio. The same word in Greek signifies
both fair and good; and the Holy Word often says good when it means fair:
I should willingly maintain the priority in good things, according to
the song that Plato calls an idle thing, taken out of some ancient poet:
"health, beauty, riches." Aristotle says that the right of command
appertains to the beautiful; and that, when there is a person whose beauty
comes near the images of the gods, veneration is equally due to him. To
him who asked why people oftener and longer frequent the company of
handsome persons: "That question," said he, "is only to be asked by the
blind." Most of the philosophers, and the greatest, paid for their
schooling, and acquired wisdom by the favour and mediation of their beauty.
Not only in the men that serve me, but also in the beasts, I consider it
within two fingers' breadth of goodness.

And yet I fancy that those features and moulds of face, and those
lineaments, by which men guess at our internal complexions and our fortunes
to come, is a thing that does not very directly and simply lie
under the chapter of beauty and deformity, no more than every good
odour and serenity of air promises health, nor all fog and stink
infection in a time of pestilence.

Such as accuse ladies of contradicting their beauty by their manners, do
not always hit right; for, in a face which is none of the best,
there may dwell some air of probity and trust; as, on the contrary, I have
read, betwixt two beautiful eyes, menaces of a dangerous and malignant
nature. There are favourable physiognomies, so that in a crowd of victorious
enemies, you shall presently choose, amongst men you never saw before, one
rather than another to whom to surrender, and with whom to intrust
your life; and yet not properly upon the consideration of beauty.

A person's look is but a feeble warranty; and yet it is something considerable
too; and if I had to lash them, I would most severely scourge the wicked
ones who belie and betray the promises that nature has planted in their
foreheads; I should with greater severity punish malice under a mild
and gentle aspect.

It seems as if there were some lucky and some unlucky faces; and I believe
there is some art in distinguishing affable from merely simple faces,
severe from rugged, malicious from pensive, scornful from melancholic,
and such other bordering qualities.
There are beauties which are not only haughty, but sour, and others that
are not only gentle, but more than that, insipid; to prognosticate from
them future events is a matter that I shall leave undecided.

I have, as I have said elsewhere as to my own concern, simply and
implicitly embraced this ancient rule, "That we cannot fail in
following Nature," and that the sovereign precept is to conform
ourselves to her.

I have not, as Socrates did, corrected my natural composition by the force
of reason, and have not in the least disturbed my inclination by
art; I have let myself go as I came: I contend not; my two principal
parts live, of their own accord, in peace and good intelligence,
but my nurse's milk, thank God, was tolerably wholesome and good.

Shall I say this by the way, that I see in greater esteem than 'tis
worth, and in use solely among ourselves, a certain image of scholastic
probity, a slave to precepts, and fettered with hope and fear? I would
have it such as that laws and religions should not make, but perfect
and authorise it; that finds it has wherewithal to support itself without
help, born and rooted in us from the seed of universal reason, imprinted
in every man by nature. That reason which strengthens Socrates from his
vicious bend renders him obedient to the gods and men of authority in
his city:
courageous in death, not because his soul is immortal, but because
he is mortal. 'Tis a doctrine ruinous to all government, and much more
hurtful than ingenious and subtle, which persuades the people that a
religious belief is alone sufficient, and without conduct, to satisfy
the divine justice.

Use demonstrates to us a vast distinction betwixt devotion and conscience.

I have a favourable aspect, both in form and in interpretation:

"Quid dixi, habere me? imo habui, Chreme."
["What did I say? that I have? no, Chremes, I had." --Terence, Heaut.,
act i., sec. 2, v. 42.]
"Heu! tantum attriti corporis ossa vides;"
["Alas! of a worn body thou seest only the bones"]
and that makes a quite contrary show to that of Socrates. It has often
befallen me, that upon the mere credit of my presence and air, persons
who had no manner of knowledge of me have put a very great confidence
in me, whether in their own affairs or mine; and I have in foreign
parts thence obtained singular and rare favours.

But the two following examples are, peradventure, worth particular relation.
A certain person planned to surprise my house and me in it; his scheme
was to come to my gates alone, and to be importunate to be let in. I
knew him by name, and had fair reason to repose confidence in him, as
being my neighbour and something related to me. I caused the gates to be
opened to him, as I do to every one. There I found him, with every
appearance of alarm, his horse panting and very tired. He entertained
me with this story:

"That, about half a league off, he had met with a certain enemy of his,
whom I also knew, and had heard of their quarrel; that his enemy had
given him a very brisk chase, and that having been surprised in disorder,
and his party being too weak, he had fled to my gates for refuge; and
that he was in great trouble for his followers, whom (he said) he concluded
to be all either dead or taken." I innocently did my best to comfort,
assure, and refresh him. Shortly after came four or five of his
soldiers, who presented themselves in the same countenance and
affright, to get in too; and after them more, and still more, very well
mounted and armed, to the number of five-and-twenty or thirty, pretending
that they had the enemy at their heels. This mystery began a little
to awaken my suspicion; I was not ignorant what an age I lived
in, how much my house might be envied, and I had several examples of
others of my acquaintance to whom a mishap of this sort had happened.
But thinking there was nothing to be got by having begun to do a
courtesy, unless I went through with it, and that I could not
disengage myself from them without spoiling all, I let myself go
the most natural and simple way, as I always do, and invited them
all to come in.

And in truth I am naturally very little inclined to suspicion and
distrust; I willingly incline towards excuse and the gentlest
interpretation; I take men according to the common order, and do
not more believe in those perverse and unnatural inclinations,
unless convinced by manifest evidence, than I do in monsters and
miracles; and I am, moreover, a man who willingly commit myself to
Fortune, and throw myself headlong into her arms; and I have hitherto
found more reason to applaud than to blame myself for so doing,
having ever found her more discreet about, and a greater friend to,
my affairs than I am myself.

There are some actions in my life whereof the conduct may justly be
called difficult, or, if you please, prudent; of these, supposing the third
part to have been my own, doubtless the other two-thirds were
absolutely hers. We make, methinks, a mistake in that we do not
enough trust Heaven with our affairs, and pretend to more from our own
conduct than appertains to us; and therefore it is that our designs so
often miscarry. Heaven is jealous of the extent that we attribute to the
right of human prudence above its own, and cuts it all the shorter by
how much the more we amplify it. The last comers remained on
horseback in my courtyard, whilst their leader, who was with me
in the parlour, would not have his horse put up in the stable, saying
he should immediately retire, so soon as he had news of his men. He saw
himself master of his enterprise, and nothing now remained but its
execution.
He has since several times said (for he was not ashamed to tell the
story himself) that my countenance and frankness had snatched the
treachery out of his hands. He again mounted his horse; his followers,
who had their eyes intent upon him, to see when he would give the signal,
being very much astonished to find him come away and leave his prey
behind him.

Another time, relying upon some truce just published in the army,
I took a journey through a very ticklish country.

I had not ridden far, but I was discovered, and two or three parties
of horse, from various places, were sent out to seize me; one of them
overtook me on the third day, and I was attacked by fifteen or twenty
gentlemen in vizors, followed at a distance by a band of foot-soldiers.
I was taken, withdrawn into the thick of a neighbouring forest, dismounted,
robbed, my trunks rifled, my money-box taken, and my horses and equipage
divided amongst new masters.
We had, in this copse, a very long contest about my ransom, which they
set so high, that it was manifest that I was not known to them.
They were, moreover, in a very great debate about my life; and, in
truth, there were various circumstances that clearly showed the danger I
was in:

"Tunc animis opus, AEnea, tunc pectore firmo."
["Then, AEneas, there is need of courage, of a firm heart."

--AEneid, vi. 261.]
I still insisted upon the truce, too willing they should have the gain of
what they had already taken from me, which was not to be despised,
without promise of any other ransom. After two or three hours that we had
been in this place, and that they had mounted me upon a horse that
was not likely to run from them, and committed me to the guard of
fifteen or twenty harquebusiers, and dispersed my servants to
others, having given order that they should carry us away prisoners several
ways, and I being already got some two or three musket-shots from the
place,
"Jam prece Pollucis, jam Castoris, implorata,"
["By a prayer addressed now to Pollux, now to Castor." --Catullus, lxvi.
65.]
behold a sudden and unexpected alteration; I saw the chief return to me
with gentler language, making search amongst the troopers for my
scattered property, and causing as much as could be recovered to be restored
to me, even to my money-box; but the best present they made was
my liberty, for the rest did not much concern me at that time. The
true cause of so sudden a change, and of this reconsideration, without
any apparent impulse, and of so miraculous a repentance, in such a
time, in a planned and deliberate enterprise, and become just by
usage (for, at the first dash, I plainly confessed to them of what
party I was, and whither I was going), truly, I do not yet rightly
understand.

The most prominent amongst them, who pulled off his vizor and told me
his name, repeatedly told me at the time, over and over again, that I
owed my deliverance to my countenance, and the liberty and boldness
of my speech, that rendered me unworthy of such a misadventure, and should
secure me from its repetition. 'Tis possible that the Divine goodness
willed to make use of this vain instrument for my preservation; and
it, moreover, defended me the next day from other and worse ambushes,
of which these my assailants had given me warning. The last of these two
gentlemen is yet living himself to tell the story; the first was killed
not long ago.

If my face did not answer for me, if men did not read in my eyes and in
my voice the innocence of intention, I had not lived so long without
quarrels and without giving offence, seeing the indiscreet whatever comes
into my head, and to judge so rashly of things. This way may, with reason,
appear uncivil, and ill adapted to our way of conversation; but I have
never met with any who judged it outrageous or malicious, or that
took offence at my liberty, if he had it from my own mouth; words repeated
have another kind of sound and sense. Nor do I hate any person; and I
am so slow to offend, that I cannot do it, even upon the account
of reason itself; and when occasion has required me to sentence
criminals, I have rather chosen to fail in point of justice than to do
it:

"Ut magis peccari nolim, quam satis animi ad vindicanda peccata habeam."

The pavement is elaborately
ornamented; the ceiling is to be brilliantly gilded and painted, as it
was of yore, and the tracery and sculptures around the walls are to be
faithfully renewed from what remains of the original patterns.

After viewing the chapter-house, the verger--an elderly man of grave,
benign manner, clad in black and talking of the cathedral and the
monuments as if he loved them--led us again into the nave of the
cathedral, and thence within the screen of the choir.  The screen is as
poor as possible,--mere barren wood-work, without the least attempt at
beauty.  In the chancel there are some meagre patches of old glass, and
some of modern date, not very well worth looking at.  We saw several
interesting monuments in this part of the cathedral,--one belonging to
the ducal family of Somerset, and erected in the reign of James I.; it is
of marble, and extremely splendid and elaborate, with kneeling figures
and all manner of magnificence,--more than I have seen in any monument
except that of Mary of Scotland in Westminster Abbey.  The more ancient
tombs are also very numerous, and among them that of the Bishop who
founded the cathedral.  Within the screen, against the wall, is erected a
monument, by Chantrey, to the Earl of Malmesbury; a full-length statue of
the Earl in a half-recumbent position, holding an open volume and looking
upward,--a noble work,--a calm, wise, thoughtful, firm, and not
unbenignant face.  Beholding its expression, it really was impossible not
to have faith in the high character of the individual thus represented;
and I have seldom felt this effect from any monumental bust or statue,
though I presume it is always aimed at.

I am weary of trying to describe cathedrals.  It is utterly useless;
there is no possibility of giving the general effect, or any shadow of
it, and it is miserable to put down a few items of tombstones, and a bit
of glass from a painted window, as if the gloom and glory of the edifice
were thus to be reproduced.  Cathedrals are almost the only things (if
even those) that have quite filled out my ideal here in this old world;
and cathedrals often make me miserable from my inadequacy to take them
wholly in; and, above all, I despise myself when I sit down to describe
them.

We now walked around the Close, which is surrounded by some of the
quaintest and comfortablest ecclesiastical residences that can be
imagined.  These are the dwelling-houses of the Dean and the canons, and
whatever other high officers compose the Bishop's staff; and there was
one large brick mansion, old, but not so ancient as the rest, which we
took to be the Bishop's palace.  I never beheld anything--I must say
again so cosey, so indicative of domestic comfort for whole centuries
together,--houses so fit to live in or to die in, and where it would be
so pleasant to lead a young wife beneath the antique portal, and dwell
with her till husband and wife were patriarchal,--as these delectable old
houses.  They belong naturally to the cathedral, and have a necessary
relation to it, and its sanctity is somehow thrown over them all, so that
they do not quite belong to this world, though they look full to
overflowing of whatever earthly things are good for man.  These are
places, however, in which mankind makes no progress; the rushing tumult
of human life here subsides into a deep, quiet pool, with perhaps a
gentle circular eddy, but no onward movement.  The same identical
thought, I suppose, goes round in a slow whirl from one generation to
another, as I have seen a withered leaf do in the vortex of a brook.  In
the front of the cathedral there is a most stately and beautiful tree,
which flings its verdure upward to a very lofty height; but far above it
rises the tall spire, dwarfing the great tree by comparison.

When the cathedral had sufficiently oppressed us with its beauty, we
returned to sublunary matters, and went wandering about Salisbury in
search of a luncheon, which we finally took in a confectioner's shop.
Then we inquired hither and thither, at various livery-stables, for a
conveyance to Stonehenge, and at last took a fly from the Lamb Hotel.
The drive was over a turnpike for the first seven miles, over a bare,
ridgy country, showing little to interest us.  We passed a party of seven
or eight men, in a coarse uniform dress, resembling that worn by convicts
and apparently under the guardianship of a stout, authoritative, yet
rather kindly-looking man with a cane.  Our driver said that they were
lunatics from a neighboring asylum, out for a walk.

Seven miles from Salisbury, we turned aside from the turnpike, and drove
two miles across Salisbury Plain, which is an apparently boundless extent
of unenclosed land, treeless and houseless.  It is not exactly a plain,
but a green sea of long and gentle swells and subsidences, affording
views of miles upon miles to a very far horizon.  We passed large flocks
of sheep, with the shepherds watching them; but the dogs seemed to take
most of the care of the flocks upon their own shoulders, and would
scamper to turn the sheep when they inclined to stray whither they should
not; and then arose a thousand-fold bleating, not unpleasant to the ear;
for it did not apparently indicate any fear or discomfort on the part of
the flock.  The sheep and lambs are all black-faced, and have a very
funny expression.  As we drove over the plain (my seat was beside the
driver), I saw at a distance a cluster of large gray stones, mostly
standing upright, and some of them slightly inclined towards each other,
--very irregular, and so far off forming no very picturesque or
noteworthy spectacle.  Of course I knew at once that this was

STONEHENGE,

and also knew that the reality was going to dwindle wofully within my
ideal, as almost everything else does.  When we reached the spot, we
found a picnic-party just finishing their dinner, on one of the
overthrown stones of the druidical temple; and within the sacred circle
an artist was painting a wretched daub of the scene, and an old shepherd
--the very Shepherd of Salisbury Plain sat erect in the centre of the
ruin.

There never was a ruder thing than Stonehenge made by mortal hands.  It
is so very rude that it seems as if Nature and man had worked upon it
with one consent, and so it is all the stranger and more impressive from
its rudeness.  The spectator wonders to see art and contrivance, and a
regular and even somewhat intricate plan, beneath all the uncouth
simplicity of this arrangement of rough stones; and certainly, whatever
was the intellectual and scientific advancement of the people who built
Stonehenge, no succeeding architects will ever have a right to triumph
over them; for nobody's work in after times is likely to endure till it
becomes a mystery as to who built it, and how, and for what purpose.
Apart from the moral considerations suggested by it, Stonehenge is not
very well worth seeing.  Materially, it is one of the poorest of
spectacles, and when complete, it must have been even less picturesque
than now,--a few huge, rough stones, very imperfectly squared, standing
on end, and each group of two supporting a third large stone on their
tops; other stones of the same pattern overthrown and tumbled one upon
another; and the whole comprised within a circuit of about a hundred feet
diameter; the short, sheep-cropped grass of Salisbury Plain growing among
all these uncouth bowlders.  I am not sure that a misty, lowering day
would not have better suited Stonehenge, as the dreary midpoint of the
great, desolate, trackless plain; not literally trackless, however, for
the London and Exeter Road passes within fifty yards of the ruins, and
another road intersects it.

After we had been there about an hour, there came a horseman within the
Druid's circle,--evidently a clerical personage by his white neckcloth,
though his loose gray riding pantaloons were not quite in keeping.  He
looked at us rather earnestly, and at last addressed Mrs. ------, and
announced himself as Mr. Hinchman,--a clergyman whom she had been trying
to find in Salisbury, in order to avail herself of him as a cicerone; and
he had now ridden hither to meet us.  He told us that the artist whom we
found here could give us more information than anybody about Stonehenge;
for it seems he has spent a great many years here, painting and selling
his poor sketches to visitors, and also selling a book which his father
wrote about the remains.  This man showed, indeed, a pretty accurate,
acquaintance with these old stones, and pointed out, what is thought to
be the altar-stone, and told us of some relation between this stone and
two other stones, and the rising of the sun at midsummer, which might
indicate that Stonehenge was a temple of solar worship.  He pointed out,
too, to how little depth the stones were planted in the earth, insomuch
that I have no doubt the American frosts would overthrow Stonehenge in a
single winter; and it is wonderful that it should have stood so long,
even in England.  I have forgotten what else he said; but I bought one of
his books, and find it a very unsatisfactory performance, being chiefly
taken up with an attempt to prove these remains to be an antediluvian
work, constructed, I think the author says, under the superintendence of
Father Adam himself!  Before our departure we were requested to write our
names in the album which the artist keeps for the purpose; and he pointed
out Ex-President Fillmore's autograph, and those of one or two other
Americans who have been here within a short time.  It is a very curious
life that this artist leads, in this great solitude, and haunting
Stonehenge like the ghost of a Druid; but he is a brisk little man, and
very communicative on his one subject.

Mr. Hinchman rode with us over the plain, and pointed out Salisbury
spire, visible close to Stonehenge.  Under his guidance we returned by a
different road from that which brought us thither,--and a much more
delightful one.  I think I never saw such continued sylvan beauty as this
road showed us, passing through a good deal of woodland scenery,--fine
old trees, standing each within its own space, and thus having full
liberty to outspread itself, and wax strong and broad for ages, instead
of being crowded, and thus stifled and emaciated, as human beings are
here, and forest-trees are in America.  Hedges, too, and the rich, rich
verdure of England; and villages full of picturesque old houses,
thatched, and ivied, or perhaps overrun with roses,--and a stately
mansion in the Elizabethan style; and a quiet stream, gliding onward
without a ripple from its own motion, but rippled by a large fish darting
across it; and over all this scene a gentle, friendly sunshine, not
ardent enough to crisp a single leaf or blade of grass.  Nor must the
village church be forgotten, with its square, battlemented tower, dating
back to the epoch of the Normans.  We called at a house where one of Mrs.
------'s pupils was residing with her aunt,--a thatched house of two
stories high, built in what was originally a sand-pit, but which, in the
course of a good many years, has been transformed into the most
delightful and homelike little nook almost that can be found in England.
A thatched cottage suggests a very rude dwelling indeed; but this had a
pleasant parlor and drawing-room, and chambers with lattice-windows,
opening close beneath the thatched roof; and the thatch itself gives an
air to the place as if it were a bird's nest, or some such simple and
natural habitation.  The occupants are an elderly clergyman, retired from
professional duty, and his sister; and having nothing else to do, and
sufficient means, they employ themselves in beautifying this sweet little
retreat--planting new shrubbery, laying out new walks around it, and
helping Nature to add continually another charm; and Nature is certainly
a more genial playfellow in England than in my own country.  She is
always ready to lend her aid to any beautifying purpose.

Leaving these good people, who were very hospitable, giving tea and
offering wine, we reached Salisbury in time to take the train for
Southampton.


June 18th.--Yesterday we left the Castle Hotel, after paying a bill of
twenty pounds for a little more than a week's board.  In America we could
not very well have lived so simply, but we might have lived luxuriously
for half the money.  This Castle Hotel was once an old Roman castle, the
landlord says, and the circular sweep of the tower is still seen towards
the street, although, being painted white, and built up with modern
additions, it would not be taken for an ancient structure.  There is a
dungeon beneath it, in which the landlord keeps his wine.

J----- and I, quitting the hotel, walked towards Shinley along the
water-side, leaving the rest of the family to follow in a fly.  There are
many traces, along the shore, of the fortifications by which Southampton
was formerly defended towards the water, and very probably their
foundations may be as ancient as Roman times.  Lloyd George can speak
well of the services of Germany to the world, all is not lost. It is
pleasant to be able to quote these passages from an interview reported
in the _Daily News_ of January 25, 1916:

"Mr. Lloyd George is not among those who imagine they are doing their
country a service by decrying everything German. 'I think,' he said,
'that America and all of us should realise that there were two Germanies
before the war.

On the one hand, there was the industrial, the commercial, and the
intellectual Germany, and in a most remarkable way she had blended the
three elements.

That Germany was rendering a great service to civilisation. It was
conquering the world by the success of its methods and of its example,
and that conquest would have proved a very genuine blessing. It would
have been the means of saving some of the terrible waste from which
most of the social evils of humanity spring. As an ardent social reformer,
I freely confess that I myself was learning a good deal from that
side of Germany, particularly in the direction of municipal and
national organisation.'" Mr. Lloyd George goes on to say that the other
Germany, the military Germany, had overthrown the Germany from which he
had drawn inspiration. Our task then surely is to help to reduce
military dominance everywhere and to help to set free that Germany whose
peaceful conquest of the world "would have proved a very genuine blessing."

That Germany was, and still is, a Germany of simple hearts, of men
and women who can love well.

I have talked to many British-born wives of interned men. Over and over
again I have heard the same story. "I could not have had a better
husband, and the children could not have had a better father." That
is why many English wives have already gone to Germany to their husband's
families.

It is time we got rid of grotesque caricatures of the German people.

Such caricatures always represent the outlook of war-time, but they
do not make for a lasting peace.

There is a great German people, and that people and ours should find each
other's hearts. I am not so much concerned as to the Germany of brilliant
science and industrious commerce. That is good, but there is something
better: It is the Germany of loving husbands and true comrades, of true
wives and devoted mothers.
It is the heart that rules the world, and we need the true hearts
in Germany, England, France, and over all the world to recognise
each other.

The one prayer for us all in every land in these days surely is, "Lord,
that our eyes may be opened!" When we can pray that prayer, we shall
begin to see the war to a peace of the heart--the only peace that
will not be a "patched-up peace."

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 40: Lieut. Dr. Kutscher writes with obvious pleasure of the
_grande loterie de Noël_ shared out by the officers to the children
of C. in France. The children's parties went on, too, in the New
Year. (_Int. Review_, 10th Aug., 1915).]
[Footnote 41: Cf. p. 161. These are simply examples of the wild passions
war engenders, and there is not always the sergeant at hand who says "Drop
that or I shoot you." One side may be decidedly worse than the other
(as seems, _e.g._, to have been the case in the American Civil
War), but this does not alter the character of what war does for human
nature.]
[Footnote 42: See p. 36.]
[Footnote 43: "An English Girl's Adventures in Hostile Germany,"
pp. 58 and 124. For other incidents see p. 212.]
[Footnote 44: See above, p. 55. For further examples of civilian
kindness see pp. 212 ff.]
[Footnote 45: It is disconcerting to one's pride to learn that while
the sale of German newspapers in England was entirely "verboten"
in 1916, English newspapers may still be readily obtained in Germany
in the autumn of 1918.

Why are we so afraid of the other side being known?]

[Footnote 46: Cf. p. 169.]
[Footnote 47: The war has greatly increased that number.]

[Footnote 48: My aim is not political, and I do not, therefore, touch
upon the many later utterances. The protests, for example, against
the unfairness of the Brest-Litovsk Peace have in Reichstag and Press
been numerous and emphatic. For such facts the reader should consult the
"Cambridge Magazine."]
[Footnote 49: We were allowed to suppose that the Lusitania carried no
munitions, the Germans were encouraged to believe that she carried mounted
guns. Both views were incorrect. The _New York Evening Post_
(quoted by the _Labour Leader_) published the "manifest" of the number
of cases of ammunition carried.]
[Footnote 50: Ernest Poole in "Cassell's Magazine," No. 42.]
[Footnote 51: This seems unavoidable. "At last things quieted down a
bit, but many wounded had to be brought in between the firing
lines--dangerous work, as both sides are liable to fire if they are
seen."--An R.A.M.C. Officer in the _Times_.]
[Footnote 52: From "The Pageant of War," by Lady Margaret Sackville.]

[Footnote 53: Cf. too p. 108.]
[Footnote 54: "There is no reason to suppose that he had seen
Germany." wrote Mr.

George Long in Sir William Smith's "Dictionary of Greek Biography and
Mythology."]
[Footnote 55: Further, we must remember that "The Red Cross on a white field
is not a magic mantle that can ward off shells fired by an artillerist
at a target which he cannot see, nor against flyers dropping bombs from
thousands of feet in the air.
'Bomb-dropping flyers are the terror of the doctors and wounded behind the
lines,' remarked a doctor to me."--Karl von Wiegand, in the _New York
World_, August 17, 1916. ("Cambridge Magazine," _Oct_. 7, 1916.)]

[Footnote 56: "Church towers in a flat country are the only observation
points, and so they are used, and so they are shelled."--Ernest Poole, in
"Cassell's Magazine," No. 42, p.
27.]
[Footnote 57: From "Is It To Be Hate?" (Allen and Unwin), a pamphlet
which I wrote in 1915. On many points there dealt with my second thoughts
are different, as are those of many others.
We have learned much since then.]
[Footnote 58: The public is extraordinarily innocent as regards this kind
of information. It would form an interesting subject for post-war analysis.]

[Footnote 59: Cf. p. 157.]
[Footnote 60: From "Is It To Be Hate?" by the Author.]
[Footnote 61: _La guerre devant Le Palais._ Par Gabriel Mourey.
Paris. Ollendorff 2f.--_Times_ Literary Supplement, Aug. 19, 1915.]
[Footnote 62: Cf. M. Mourey on the Uhlans at Compiègne, p. 206.]
[Footnote 63: See also p. 104.]
[Footnote 64: p. 90.]

[Footnote 65: "England," "Germany," "France," etc., in these connections
actually stand for a very small group of diplomats controlling foreign
policy. The association of the names unfortunately makes us think of the
countries as a whole, a word fallacy that leads to illimitable
disaster.]
[Footnote 66: p. 91.]
[Footnote 67: The variability of war stories may be observed also in the
columns of the _Times_ during the Crimean War. The truth is, no doubt,
that great local differences of treatment occur, and that stories to the
discredit of an enemy are more welcomed than stories in his favour.]

[Footnote 68: In the _International Review_ of August 10, 1915, an
Austrian lady, Charlotte Frankl, gives an account of the warm-hearted
help she received in France, and the even greater kindness she and others
received in England: "Not one of us had had unhappy experiences in
England."]
[Footnote 69: War was declared upon Austria May 23, 1915, and though formal
declaration of war against Germany was delayed for more than a year, the
obvious fact was that Italy had taken sides with the enemy.]
[Footnote 70: Cf. p. 199.]
[Footnote 71: The British Chemical Society expelled its honorary German
and Austrian Fellows, men who had worked for the whole of humanity. The
German Chemical Society was asked by some of its members to expel
an English Honorary Fellow who had attacked German men of science
with exceptional virulence.

The Society adopted the dignified course of taking no action amidst the
passions of war.]
[Footnote 72: "Whatever Mr. Ernest Lissauer and his fellows may have set
before themselves in their Tyrtæan poems of hate, in any case it can
be said of them that they knew not what they did.... They did not
know, though they should have known ...
that the solidarity of the nations ... has to-day already become such that
no great nation can aim at the very conditions of existence of another
without damaging itself at the same time."--Ed. Bernstein in _Das Forum_
Jan., 1915.]
[Footnote 73: This is one view. Others who have seen German life during
the war report a real solidarity of the people, a solidarity which later
developments and revelations of Entente proposals has certainly not
diminished.]
[Footnote 74: From "Is It To Be Hate?" by Harold Picton (Allen and
Unwin). See footnote p. 203.]

APPENDIX

Mme. F. L. Cyon had some rather important experiences at Lille at the time
of the German attack and during the German occupation.

She is a woman of singularly cool mentality, and her evidence may be
compared with that of Dr. Ella Scarlett-Synge in a widely distant war
area.

Mme. Cyon has very kindly placed her notes of her experiences at my
disposal. As the notes record also a point of view as to war in general,
it has seemed more fitting to print them as an appendix. No statement
of this kind is unbiased, for the pacifist has his own bias. Yet I am
quite certain that everything set down by Mme. Cyon has been set down
in complete sincerity and with unusual absence of mental distortion. The
record is that made by a quiet worker amidst circumstances where few
people remained sane.

THE MENTAL HAVOC WROUGHT BY THE WAR.

BY FRANÇOISE LAFITTE CYON.

During the months of September, October, November, and December, 1914,
I undertook a journey in Northern France; going first to Lille, thence to
Maubeuge, and returning to England via Brussels, Malines, Antwerp, and
Holland.

I was at Lille on October 13, 1914, when the Germans took the town.

During the first three months of my stay in France I was engaged
in nursing work at the military hospital 105 at Lille.

In the early part of December I travelled as well as I could, sometimes
tramping and sometimes making use of peasants' carts and local tramways,
until I eventually reached Holland.

It is not, however, my intention to speak much of my adventures or of the
war itself, but rather to depict, to the best of my ability, the
effect which the dreadful events of our doings have had on the minds of
the men and women I have met with over there; be they French, Belgian,
or German. This article will be an attempt to give a series of short
studies in psychology, rather than a dramatic account of a perilous
journey.

I wish my readers to bear in mind at the outset that after October 13 I
was in German territory, where, from that date onwards, I met with
two kinds of people. On the one hand, the oppressors or Germans; on
the other hand, the oppressed, namely, the French, Belgian, and a
few English.

For a psychological study to be of value, such a distinction is useful to
begin with, for one seldom finds the same frame of mind in the victor and
the vanquished, in the oppressor and the oppressed.

Whilst endeavouring to give facts, I must distinguish between three
types of people whom I met during my journey. First, civilians, French
and Belgian; secondly, the hospital staff, doctors and nurses, mostly
French, with the exception of two German doctors; thirdly, the
military, officers and men, French and German, with a few British.

I am obliged to make this division in order to make myself clear,
as the events of the war do not seem to affect the people of these three
divisions in the same way.

In what follows I shall for the most part depict types.

I met first with the civilian population. When I reached Lille, I found
life there much as usual, excepting that all appeared very quiet.
But a few days after my arrival Lille began to show an extraordinary
and sad animation.

The town, which had already given shelter to many refugees from
Valenciennes and villages thereabouts, was suddenly crowded by the
exodus of the inhabitants of Orchies; the latter town, it was
reported, had been completely burnt to the ground by the Germans,
only thirty houses having been left standing.

Life in Lille became horrible. In the streets one met long processions
of miserable creatures, looking haggard and exhausted. Here was a woman
with three tiny children, two of them in a dilapidated perambulator,
the other she carried in her arms. She looked grey with the dust of
the road: I followed her. She was going to the office of some local
paper, whence these poor refugees were directed where to go to find food
and shelter. Waiting at the door of the office were such numbers of these
worn-out human beings that many of them, too tired to stand any longer,
were sitting on the pavement whilst the children were eating pieces
of bread.

One morning I followed the crowd going to get bread at the town hall. I saw
a little boy of four standing at his mother's side while she talked
with another woman. The mother's basket had been put down on the pavement
and a round loaf of bread was partly coming out of it. The little
mite kneeled down on the ground and, going at it with all his might, he
began to eat off the loaf in a way which told a long, sad tale.

But what one met with amongst one's friends was often more horrible
than the sights in the streets.

The tale of the destruction of Orchies had been believed almost everywhere
before any explanation had been forthcoming, and in these days hatred
began to rear its head when people talked of the Germans.

"If they had burned Orchies," said one of my acquaintances, "it is because
we are too tolerant with them. To brutes we must speak only the language
of brutes. We treat their prisoners like guests; let us put them all
against the wall and shoot them and their wounded, too."
When I replied that we should have little right to complain of German
atrocities if we did what they are reported to do, I was looked at as too
soft and as if I were a woman without patriotic feeling. My friend
told me this as politely as his temper allowed.

I left him and went into the street to try to find some distraction from
his hatred.

I chanced to meet a woman of Orchies and inquired what had happened
there. I give her tale as told to me, though I have not been able
to verify it.

"The Germans," said she, "behaved quite well the first time they
came into our town.

They were kind to the children and even gave them sweets and toys, but
on their second visit they found that some of their wounded had had
their ears cut off and they ordered that Orchies should be set on
fire."
"It was monstrous," she added, "but I know that an African soldier was
found with a necklace of sixty ears, which he had certainly taken
somewhere. This, too, was monstrous. I do not excuse the Germans for
their crime--I have lost everything myself--but if we allow their
wounded to be mutilated at such times, what can we expect?

Who can say which side is the more barbarous? I must tell you that the
officer ordered to set fire to Orchies was also told to arrest the
mayor and some other men and to have them shot. However, he gave them
timely warning to evacuate Orchies and to make good their escape, so no
one was hurt."
How far this story was true I never knew, but the effect of it on my
fellow creatures I had seen too well, and I went away bearing on my
heart the words of the woman of Orchies: "Who can say which side is the
more barbarous?"
On October 7 we heard that the Germans were outside the city and in many
quarters fear was added to the anguish already overburdening the
hearts of so many. Yet one woman, hearing the Germans were near, exclaimed,
"Say what you like, these men are just like our French men.

War is war; you cannot expect it to be anything but cruel and barbarous.
The Germans are no enemies of mine."
Her words made a bad impression on the listeners, and it was well that
the kind-hearted soul had three brothers in the French Army or she
would have been regarded with much suspicion.
An old lady of my acquaintance almost lost her head with fright.
"How dare they," she said, speaking of the French, "let the Germans
take Lille?" 
"What then," said I, "of Rheims?"
"Yes, Rheims, I know it was horrible! But Lille, the most beautiful
town of the North, it is a crime to make it suffer."
Whilst discussing with me the doings of the French Army the old
lady had often argued that Rheims and Arras had had to suffer because
this was necessary to the success of the French operations. Recalling
her own words, I asked: "But what could you say if for the good of
the common cause Lille must suffer as did Rheims and Arras?"
But in her terror, forgetful of what she had said previously, she
only exclaimed: "Lille! It is a crime. What shall we do? How shall
we live?"
And I could see fear in her eyes, fear for her belongings as well
as for her life, fear which made her forget for a moment the "good
cause of this war" as she had often put it to me, fear which made
her heart give out a note of real selfishness.
So far as I can remember it was on October 8 that all the gates of
the city were closed, and that there was fighting on the Grand
Boulevard, the great wide thoroughfare which connects Lille with
its sister-cities of Roubaix and Tourcoing. There was also fighting
near one of the gates.
On the following day, on returning from my work in Hospital 105,
the people with whom I was living told me of the terrible spectacle
they had witnessed when they had gone to get news of some relations
living near the gate where the fight had taken place. One woman
said:
"The fight was on the bridge, which was covered in the evening with
the dead bodies of Germans, amongst them two wounded men whom the
Germans had left behind. By the bridge there is an inn, and we have
been told that five men, civilians, who were there, killed the two
'Boches' by strangling them. This makes two less of them!"
I looked at her in horror, thinking that fright had turned her
brain. I could find no words to reply. I turned to go to my own
room, when she added:
"In any case, the 'Boches' won't know of it for the bodies are
buried under a heap of stones."
I left her with the words of the woman of Orchies echoing through
my brain: "Who can tell which side is the more barbarous?"
Some of these people I had known before the war to be peaceful,
quiet citizens; they now appeared to me to have suddenly turned
into devils.Very
little of the wine probably comes out as it goes in, or is exactly what
it pretends to be.  I went back to Mr. ------'s office, and we drove
together to make some calls jointly and separately.  I went alone to Mrs.
Heywood's; afterwards with Mr. ------ to the American minister's, whom we
found at home; and I requested of him, on the part of the Americans at
Liverpool, to tell me the facts about the American gentleman being
refused admittance to the Levee.  The ambassador did not seem to me to
make his point good for having withdrawn with the rejected guest.


July 9th. (Our wedding-day.)--We were invited yesterday evening to Mrs.
S. C. Hall's, where Jenny Lind was to sing; so we left Blackheath at
about eight o'clock in a brougham, and reached Ashley Place, as the dusk
was gathering, after nine.  The Halls reside in a handsome suite of
apartments, arranged on the new system of flats, each story constituting
a separate tenement, and the various families having an entrance-hall in
common.  The plan is borrowed from the Continent, and seems rather alien
to the traditionary habits of the English; though, no doubt, a good
degree of seclusion is compatible with it.  Mr. Hall received us with the
greatest cordiality before we entered the drawing-room.  Mrs. Hall, too,
greeted us with most kindly warmth.  Jenny Lind had not yet arrived; but
I found Dr. Mackay there, and I was introduced to Miss Catherine
Sinclair, who is a literary lady, though none of her works happen to be
known to me.  Soon the servant announced Madam Goldschmidt, and this
famous lady made her appearance, looking quite different from what I
expected.  Mrs. Hall established her in the inner drawing-room, where was
a piano and a harp; and shortly after, our hostess came to me, and said
that Madam Goldschmidt wished to be introduced to me.  There was a gentle
peremptoriness in the summons, that made it something like being
commanded into the presence of a princess; a great favor, no doubt, but
yet a little humbling to the recipient.  However, I acquiesced with due
gratitude, and was presented accordingly.  She made room for me on the
sofa, and I sat down, and began to talk.

Jenny Lind is rather tall,--quite tall, for a woman,--certainly no
beauty, but with sense and self-reliance in her aspect and manners.  She
was suffering under a severe cold, and seemed worn down besides, so
probably I saw her under disadvantages.  Her conversation is quite
simple, and I should have great faith in her sincerity; and there is
about her the manner of a person who knows the world, and has conquered
it.  She said something or other about The Scarlet Letter; and, on my
part, I paid her such compliments as a man could pay who had never heard
her sing. . . . Her conversational voice is an agreeable one, rather
deep, and not particularly smooth.  She talked about America, and of our
unwholesome modes of life, as to eating and exercise, and of the
ill-health especially of our women; but I opposed this view as far as I
could with any truth, insinuating my opinion that we are about as healthy
as other people, and affirming for a certainty that we live longer.  In
good faith, so far as I have any knowledge of the matter, the women of
England are as generally out of health as those of America; always
something has gone wrong with them; and as for Jenny Lind, she looks wan
and worn enough to be an American herself.  This charge of ill-health is
almost universally brought forward against us nowadays,--and, taking the
whole country together, I do not believe the statistics will bear it out.

The rooms, which were respectably filled when we arrived, were now
getting quite full.  I saw Mr. Stevens, the American man of libraries,
and had some talk with him; and Durham, the sculptor; and Mr. and Mrs.
Hall introduced me to various people, some of whom were of note,--for
instance, Sir Emerson Tennent, a man of the world, of some parliamentary
distinction, wearing a star; Mr. Samuel Lover, a most good-natured,
pleasant Irishman, with a shining and twinkling visage; Miss Jewsbury,
whom I found very conversable.  She is known in literature, but not to
me.  We talked about Emerson, whom she seems to have been well acquainted
with while he was in England; and she mentioned that Miss Martineau had
given him a lock of hair; it was not her own hair, but a mummy's.

After our return, Mrs. ------ told us that Miss Jewsbury had written,
among other things, three histories, and as she asked me to introduce her
to S-----, and means to cultivate our acquaintance, it would be well to
know something of them.  We were told that she is now employed in some
literary undertaking of Lady Morgan's, who, at the age of ninety, is
still circulating in society, and is as brisk in faculties as ever.  I
should like to see her ladyship, that is, I should not be sorry to see
her; for distinguished people are so much on a par with others, socially,
that it would be foolish to be overjoyed at seeing anybody whomsoever.

Leaving out the illustrious Jenny Lind, I suspect that I was myself the
greatest lion of the evening; for a good many persons sought the felicity
of knowing me, and had little or nothing to say when that honor and
happiness was conferred on them.  It is surely very wrong and
ill-mannered in people to ask for an introduction unless they are
prepared to make talk; it throws too great an expense and trouble on the
wretched lion, who is compelled, on the spur of the moment, to convert a
conversable substance out of thin air, perhaps for the twentieth time
that evening.  I am sure I did not say--and I think I did not hear said--
one rememberable word in the course of this visit; though, nevertheless,
it was a rather agreeable one.  In due season ices and jellies were
handed about; and some ladies and gentlemen--professional, perhaps--were
kind enough to sing songs, and play on the piano and harp, while persons
in remote corners went on with whatever conversation they had in hand.
Then came supper; but there were so many people to go into the
supper-room that we could not all crowd thither together, and, coming
late, I got nothing but some sponge-cake and a glass of champagne,
neither of which I care for.  After supper, Mr. Lover sang some Irish
songs, his own in music and words, with rich, humorous effect, to which
the comicality of his face contributed almost as much as his voice and
words.  The Lord Mayor looked in for a little while, and though a
hard-featured Jew enough, was the most picturesque person there.


July 10th.--Mrs. Heywood had invited me to dinner last evening. . . .
Her house is very finely situated, overlooking Hyde Park, and not a great
way from where Tyburn tree used to stand.  When I arrived, there were no
guests but Mr. and Mrs. D------; but by and by came Mr. Monckton Milnes
and lady, the Bishop of Lichfield, Mr. Tom Taylor, Mr. Ewart, M. P., Sir
Somebody Somerville, Mr. and Mrs. Musgrave, and others.  Mr. Milnes, whom
I had not seen for more than a year, greeted me very cordially, and so
did Mr. Taylor.  I took Mrs. Musgrave in to dinner.  She is an Irish
lady, and Mrs. Heywood had recommended her to me as being very
conversable; but I had a good deal more talk with Mrs. M------, with whom
I was already acquainted, than with her.  Mrs. The authorities stated that
it had never been necessary, in recent times at least, to place a British
prisoner under arrest. On the whole, the camp struck me as being as
nearly ideal as it is possible for a place of detention of this kind to
be.Speaking of full dress, the Bishop wore
small-clothes and silk stockings, and entered the drawing-room with a
three-cornered hat, which he kept flattened out under his arm.  He asked
the briefest blessing possible, and, sitting at the ultra end of the
table, I heard nothing further from him till he officiated as briefly
before the cloth was withdrawn.  Mrs. M------ talked about Tennyson, with
whom her husband was at the University, and whom he continues to know
intimately.  She says that he considers Maud his best poem.  He now lives
in the Isle of Wight, spending all the year round there, and has recently
bought the place on which he resides.  She was of opinion that he would
have been gratified by my calling on him, which I had wished to do, while
we were at Southampton; but this is a liberty which I should hardly
venture upon with a shy man like Tennyson,--more especially as he might
perhaps suspect me of doing it on the score of my own literary character.

But I should like much to see him  Mr. Tom Taylor, during dinner, made
some fun for the benefit of the ladies on either side of him.  I liked
him very well this evening.

When the ladies had not long withdrawn, and after the wine had once gone
round, I asked Mr. Heywood to make my apologies to Mrs. Heywood, and took
leave; all London lying betwixt me and the London Bridge station, where I
was to take the rail homeward.  At the station I found Mr. Bennoch, who
had been dining with the Lord Mayor to meet Sir William Williams, and we
railed to Greenwich, and reached home by midnight.  Mr. and Mrs. Bennoch
have set out on their Continental journey to-day,--leaving us, for a
little space, in possession of what will be more like a home than
anything that we shall hereafter find in England.

This afternoon I had taken up the fourth volume of Jerdan's
Autobiography,--wretched twaddle, though it records such constant and
apparently intimate intercourse with distinguished people,--and was
reading it, between asleep and awake, on the sofa, when Mr. Jerdan
himself was announced.  I saw him, in company with Mr. Bennoch, nearly
three years ago, at Rock Park, and wondered then what there was in so
uncouth an individual to get him so freely into polished society.  He now
looks rougher than ever,--time-worn, but not reverend; a thatch of gray
hair on his head; an imperfect set of false teeth; a careless apparel,
checked trousers, and a stick, for he had walked a mile or two from his
own dwelling.

I suspect--and long practice at the Consulate has made me keen-sighted--
that Mr. Jerdan contemplated some benefit from my purse; and, to the
extent of a sovereign or so, I would not mind contributing to his
comfort.  He spoke of a secret purpose of Mr. ------ and himself to
obtain me a degree or diploma in some Literary Institution,--what one I
know not, and did not ask; but the honor cannot be a high one, if this
poor old fellow can do aught towards it.  I am afraid he is a very
disreputable senior, but certainly not the less to be pitied on that
account; and there was something very touching in his stiff and infirm
movement, as he resumed his stick and took leave, waving me a courteous
farewell, and turning upon me a smile, grim with age, as he went down the
steps.  In that gesture and smile I fancied some trace of the polished
man of society, such as he may have once been; though time and hard
weather have roughened him, as they have the once polished marble pillars
which I saw so rude in aspect at Netley Abbey.

Speaking of Dickens last evening, Mr. ------ mentioned his domestic
tastes,--how he preferred home enjoyments to all others, and did not
willingly go much into society.  Mrs. ------, too, the other day told us
of his taking on himself all possible trouble as regards his domestic
affairs. . . . There is a great variety of testimony, various and
varied, as to the character of Dickens.  I must see him before I finally
leave England.


July 13th.--On Friday morning (11th), at nine o'clock, I took the rail
into town to breakfast with Mr. Milnes.  As he had named a little after
ten as the hour, I could not immediately proceed to his house, and so
walked moderately over London Bridge and into the city, meaning to take a
cab from Charing Cross, or thereabouts.  Passing through some street or
other, contiguous to Cheapside, I saw in a court-yard the entrance to the
Guildhall, and stepped in to look at it.  It is a spacious hall, about
one hundred and fifty feet long, and perhaps half as broad, paved with
flagstones which look worn and some of them cracked across; the roof is
very lofty and was once vaulted, but has been shaped anew in modern
times.  There is a vast window partly filled with painted glass,
extending quite along each end of the hall, and a row of arched windows
on either side, throwing their light from far above downward upon the
pavement.  This fashion of high windows, not reaching within twenty or
thirty feet of the floor, serves to give great effect to the large
enclosed space of an antique hall.  Against the walls are several marble
monuments; one to the Earl of Chatham, a statue of white marble, with
various allegorical contrivances, fronting an obelisk or pyramid of dark
marble; and another to his son, William Pitt, of somewhat similar design
and of equal size; each of them occupying the whole space, I believe,
between pavement and ceiling.  There is likewise a statue of Beckford, a
famous Lord Mayor,--the most famous except Whittington, and that one who
killed Wat Tyler; and like those two, his fame is perhaps somewhat
mythological, though he lived and bustled within less than a century.  He
is said to have made a bold speech to the King; but this I will not
believe of any Englishman--at least, of any plebeian Englishman--until I
hear it.  But there stands his statue in the Guildhall in the act of
making his speech, as if the monstrous attempt had petrified him.

Lord Nelson, too, has a monument, and so, I think, has some other modern
worthy.  At one end of the hall, under one of the great painted windows,
stand three or four old statues of mediaeval kings, whose identities I
forget; and in the two corners of the opposite end are two gigantic
absurdities of painted wood, with grotesque visages, whom I quickly
recognized as Gog and Magog.  They stand each on a pillar, and seem to be
about fifteen feet high, and look like enormous playthings for the
children of giants; and it is strange to see them in this solemn old
hall, among the memorials of dead heroes and statesmen.  There is an
annual banquet in the Guildhall, given by the Lord Mayor and sheriffs,
and I believe it is the very acme of civic feasting.

After viewing the hall, as it still lacked something of ten, I continued
my walk through that entanglement of city streets, and quickly found
myself getting beyond my reckoning.  I cannot tell whither I went, but I
passed through a very dirty region, and I remember a long, narrow,
evil-odored street, cluttered up with stalls, in which were vegetables
and little bits of meat for sale; and there was a frowzy multitude of
buyers and sellers.  Still I blundered on, and was getting out of the
density of the city into broader streets, but still shabby ones, when,
looking at my watch, I found it to be past ten, and no cab-stand within
sight.  It was a quarter past when I finally got into one; and the driver
told me that it would take half an hour to go from thence to Upper Brook
Street; so that I was likely to exceed the license implied in Mr.
Milnes's invitation.  Whether I was quite beyond rule I cannot say; but
it did not lack more than ten minutes of eleven when I was ushered up
stairs, and I found all the company assembled.  However, it is of little
consequence, except that if I had come early, I should have been
introduced to many of the guests, whom now I could only know across the
table.  Mrs. Milnes greeted me very kindly, and Mr. Milnes came towards
me with an elderly gentleman in a blue coat and gray pantaloons,--with a
long, rather thin, homely visage, exceedingly shaggy eyebrows, though no
great weight of brow, and thin gray hair, and introduced me to the
Marquis of Lansdowne.  The Marquis had his right hand wrapped up in a
black-silk handkerchief; so he gave me his left, and, from some
awkwardness in meeting it, when I expected the right, I gave him only
three of my fingers,--a thing I never did before to any person, and it is
droll that I should have done it to a Marquis.  He addressed me with
great simplicity and natural kindness, complimenting me on my works, and
speaking about the society of Liverpool in former days.  Lord Lansdowne
was the friend of Moore, and has about him the aroma communicated by the
memories of many illustrious people with whom he has associated.

Mr. Ticknor, the Historian of Spanish Literature, now greeted me.  Mr.
Milnes introduced me to Mrs. Browning, and assigned her to me to conduct
into the breakfast-room.  She is a small, delicate woman, with ringlets
of dark hair, a pleasant, intelligent, and sensitive face, and a low,
agreeable voice.  She looks youthful and comely, and is very gentle and
lady-like.  And so we proceeded to the breakfast-room, which is hung
round with pictures; and in the middle of it stood a large round table,
worthy to have been King Arthur's, and here we seated ourselves without
any question of precedence or ceremony.  On one side of me was an elderly
lady, with a very fine countenance, and in the course of breakfast I
discovered her to be the mother of Florence Nightingale.  One of her
daughters (not Florence) was likewise present.  Mrs. Milnes, Mrs.
Browning, Mrs. Nightingale, and her daughter were the only ladies at
table; and I think there were as many as eight or ten gentlemen, whose
names--as I came so late--I was left to find out for myself, or to leave
unknown.

It was a pleasant and sociable meal, and, thanks to my cold beef and
coffee at home, I had no occasion to trouble myself much about the fare;
so I just ate some delicate chicken, and a very small cutlet, and a slice
of dry toast, and thereupon surceased from my labors.  Mrs. Browning and
I talked a good deal during breakfast, for she is of that quickly
appreciative and responsive order of women with whom I can talk more
freely than with any man; and she has, besides, her own originality,
wherewith to help on conversation, though, I should say, not of a
loquacious tendency.  She introduced the subject of spiritualism, which,
she says, interests her very much; indeed, she seems to be a believer.
Mr. Browning, she told me, utterly rejects the subject, and will not
believe even in the outward manifestations, of which there is such
overwhelming evidence.  We also talked of Miss Bacon; and I developed
something of that lady's theory respecting Shakespeare, greatly to the
horror of Mrs. Browning, and that of her next neighbor,--a nobleman,
whose name I did not hear.  On the whole, I like her the better for
loving the man Shakespeare with a personal love.  We talked, too, of
Margaret Fuller, who spent her last night in Italy with the Brownings;
and of William Story, with whom they have been intimate, and who, Mrs.
Browning says, is much stirred about spiritualism.  Really, I cannot help
wondering that so fine a spirit as hers should not reject the matter,
till, at least, it is forced upon her.  I like her very much.

Mrs. Nightingale had been talking at first with Lord Lansdowne, who sat
next her, but by and by she turned to nee, and began to speak of London
smoke   Then, there being a discussion about Lord Byron on the other side
of the table, she spoke to me about Lady Byron, whom she knows
intimately, characterizing her as a most excellent and exemplary person,
high-principled, unselfish, and now devoting herself to the care of her
two grandchildren,--their mother, Byron's daughter, being dead.  Lady
Byron, she says, writes beautiful verses.  Somehow or other, all this
praise, and more of the same kind, gave me an idea of an intolerably
irreproachable person; and I asked Mrs. Nightingale if Lady Byron were
warm-hearted.  With some hesitation, or mental reservation,--at all
events, not quite outspokenly,--she answered that she was.

I was too much engaged with these personal talks to attend much to what
was going on elsewhere; but all through breakfast I had been more and
more impressed by the aspect of one of the guests, sitting next to
Milnes.  He was a man of large presence,--a portly personage,
gray-haired, but scarcely as yet aged; and his face had a remarkable
intelligence, not vivid nor sparkling, but conjoined with great
quietude,--and if it gleamed or brightened at one time more than another,
it was like the sheen over a broad surface of sea.  There was a somewhat
careless self-possession, large and broad enough to be called dignity;
and the more I looked at him, the more I knew that he was a distinguished
person, and wondered who.  He might have been a minister of state; only
there is not one of them who has any right to such a face and presence.
At last,--I do not know how the conviction came,--but I became aware that
it was Macaulay, and began to see some slight resemblance to his
portraits.  But I have never seen any that is not wretchedly unworthy of
the original.  As soon as I knew him, I began to listen to his
conversation, but he did not talk a great deal, contrary to his usual
custom; for I am told he is apt to engross all the talk to himself.
Probably he may have been restrained by the presence of Ticknor, and Mr.
Palfrey, who were among his auditors and interlocutors; and as the
conversation seemed to turn much on American subjects, he could not well
have assumed to talk them down.  I am glad to have seen him,--a face fit
for a scholar, a man of the world, a cultivated intelligence.

After we left the table, and went into the library, Mr. Browning
introduced himself to me,--a younger man than I expected to see,
handsome, with brown hair.  He is very simple and agreeable in manner,
gently impulsive, talking as if his heart were uppermost.  He spoke of
his pleasure in meeting me, and his appreciation of my books; and--which
has not often happened to me--mentioned that The Blithedale Romance was
the one he admired most.  I wonder why.  I hope I showed as much pleasure
at his praise as he did at mine; for I was glad to see how pleasantly it
moved him.  After this, I talked with Ticknor and Miles, and with Mr.
Palfrey, to whom I had been introduced very long ago by George Hillard,
and had never seen him since.  We looked at some autographs, of which Mr.
Milnes has two or three large volumes.  I recollect a leaf from Swift's
Journal to Stella; a letter from Addison; one from Chatterton, in a most
neat and legible hand; and a characteristic sentence or two and signature
of Oliver Cromwell, written in a religious book.  There were many curious
volumes in the library, but I had not time to look at them.

I liked greatly the manners of almost all,--yes, as far as I observed,--
all the people at this breakfast, and it was doubtless owing to their
being all people either of high rank or remarkable intellect, or both.
An Englishman can hardly be a gentleman, unless he enjoy one or other of
these advantages; and perhaps the surest way to give him good manners is
to make a lord of him, or rather of his grandfather or great-grandfather.
In the third generation, scarcely sooner, he will be polished into
simplicity and elegance, and his deportment will be all the better for
the homely material out of which it is wrought and refined.  The Marquis
of Lansdowne, for instance, would have been a very commonplace man in the
common ranks of life; but it has done him good to be a nobleman.  Not
that his tact is quite perfect.  In going up to breakfast, he made me
precede him; in returning to the library, he did the same, although I
drew back, till he impelled me up the first stair, with gentle
persistence.  By insisting upon it, he showed his sense of condescension
much more than if, when he saw me unwilling to take precedence, he had
passed forward, as if the point were not worth either asserting or
yielding.  Heaven knows, it was in no humility that I would have trodden
behind him.  But he is a kind old man; and I am willing to believe of the
English aristocracy generally that they are kind, and of beautiful
deportment; for certainly there never can have been mortals in a position
more advantageous for becoming so.  I hope there will come a time when we
shall be so; and I already know a few Americans, whose noble and delicate
manners may compare well with any I have seen.

I left the house with Mr. Palfrey.  He has cone to England to make some
researches in the State Paper Office, for the purposes of a work which he
has in hand.  He mentioned to me a letter which he had seen, written from
New England in the time of Charles II. and referring to the order sent by
the minister of that day for the appearance of Governor Bellingham and my
ancestor on this side of the water.  The signature of this letter is an
anagram of my ancestor's name.  The letter itself is a very bold and able
one, controverting the propriety of the measure above indicated; and Mr.
Palfrey feels certain that it was written by my aforesaid ancestor.  I
mentioned my wish to ascertain the place in England whence the family
emigrated; and Mr. Palfrey took me to the Record Office, and introduced
me to Mr. Joseph Hunter,--a venerable and courteous gentleman, of
antiquarian pursuits.  The office was odorous of musty parchments,
hundreds of years old.  Mr. Hunter received me with great kindness, and
gave me various old records and rolls of parchment, in which to seek for
my family name; but I was perplexed with the crabbed characters, and soon
grew weary and gave up the quest.  He says that it is very seldom that an
American family, springing from the early settlers, can be satisfactorily
traced back to their English ancestry.


July 16th.--Monday morning I took the rail from Blackheath to London.  It
is a very pleasant place, Blackheath, and far more rural than one would
expect, within five or six miles of London,--a great many trees, making
quite a mass of foliage in the distance; green enclosures; pretty villas,
with their nicely kept lawns, and gardens, with grass-plots and flower
borders; and village streets, set along the sidewalks with ornamental
trees; and the houses standing a little back, and separated one from
another,--all this within what is called the Park, which has its
gateways, and the sort of semi-privacy with which I first became
acquainted at Rock Park.

From the London Bridge station I took a cab for Paddington, and then had
to wait above two hours before a train started for Birkenhead.  Meanwhile
I walked a little about the neighborhood, which is very dull and
uninteresting; made up of crescents and terraces, and rows of houses that
have no individuality, and second-rate shops,--in short, the outskirts of
the vast city, when it begins to have a kind of village character but no
rurality or sylvan aspect, as at Blackheath.  My journey, when at last we
started, was quite unmarked by incident, and extremely tedious; it being
a slow train, which plods on without haste and without rest.  At about
ten o'clock we reached Birkenhead, and there crossed the familiar and
detestable Mersey, which, as usual, had a cloudy sky brooding over it.
Mrs. Blodgett received me most hospitably, but was impelled, by an
overflow of guests, to put me into a little back room, looking into
the court, and formerly occupied by my predecessor, General
Armstrong. . . . She expressed a hope that I might not see his
ghost,--nor have I, as yet.

Speaking of ghosts, Mr. H. A. B------ told me a singular story to-day of
an apparition that haunts the Times Office, in Printing-House Square.  A
Mr. W------ is the engineer of the establishment, and has his residence
in the edifice, which is built, I believe, on the site of Merchant
Taylor's school,--an old house that was no longer occupied for its
original purpose, and, being supposed haunted, was left untenanted.  The
father-in-law of Mr. W------, an old sea-captain, came on a visit to him
and his wife, and was put into their guest-chamber, where he passed the
night.  The next morning, assigning no very satisfactory reason, he cut
his visit short and went away.  Shortly afterwards, a young lady came to
visit the W------'s; but she too went away the next morning,--going first
to make a call, as she said, to a friend, and sending thence for her
trunks.  Mrs. W------ wrote to this young lady, asking an explanation.
The young lady replied, and gave a singular account of an apparition,--
how she was awakened in the night by a bright light shining through the
window, which was parallel to the bed; then, if I remember rightly, her
curtains were withdrawn, and a shape looked in upon her,--a woman's
shape, she called it; but it was a skeleton, with lambent flames playing
about its bones, and in and out among the ribs.  Other persons have since
slept in this chamber, and some have seen the shape, others not.  Mr.
W------ has slept there himself without seeing anything.  He has had
investigations by scientific people, apparently under the idea that the
phenomenon might have been caused by some of the Times's work-people,
playing tricks on the magic-lantern principle; but nothing satisfactory
has thus far been elucidated.  Mr. B------ had this story from Mrs.
Gaskell. . . . Supposing it a ghost, nothing else is so remarkable as
its choosing to haunt the precincts of the Times newspaper.


July 29th.--On Saturday, 26th, I took the rail from the Lime Street
station for London, via the Trent Valley, and reached Blackheath in the
evening. . . .

I was grieved at this, but, at the moment her soul took its flight to
Heaven, my feelings were completely changed. In an instant I was filled
with an indescribable joy and fervour, as if the soul of our blessed
Foundress made me share in the happiness she already enjoyed--for I am
quite convinced she went straight to Heaven. I had said to her some
time previously: "You will not go to Purgatory, dear Mother." "I hope
not," she answered sweetly. Certainly God would not disappoint a hope
so full of humility; and the proof that He did not, lies in the many
favours we have received.

The Sisters hastened to claim something belonging to our beloved Mother,
and you know what a precious relic is mine.

During her agony I had noticed a tear glistening like a beautiful
diamond.
That tear, the last she shed on this earth, did not fall, I still
saw it shining when her body was exposed in the choir.

When evening came, I made bold to approach unseen, with a little piece of
linen, and I now have the happiness of possessing the last tear of a
Saint.

I attach no importance to my dreams, and indeed, they seldom have any
special meaning, though I do often wonder how it is that, as I think of
God all the day, my mind does not dwell on Him more in my sleep. Generally
I dream of the woods and the flowers, the brooks and the sea, and nearly
always of pretty children; or I chase birds and butterflies such as I
have never seen. But, if my dreams are sometimes poetical, they are
never mystical.

However, one night after Mother Genevieve's death, I had a more consoling
one. I thought I saw her giving to each of us something that had
belonged to herself. When my turn came, her hands were empty, and I was
afraid I was not to receive anything; but she looked at me lovingly, and
said three times: "To you I leave my heart."
About a month after that seraphic death, towards the close of the
year 1891, an epidemic of influenza raged in the Community; I only had
it slightly and was able to be about with two other Sisters.
It is impossible to imagine the heartrending state of our Carmel throughout
those days of sorrow. The worst sufferers were nursed by those who
could hardly drag themselves about; death was all around us, and, when
a Sister had breathed her last, we had to leave her instantly.

My nineteenth birthday was saddened by the death of Mother Sub-Prioress;
I assisted with the infirmarian during her agony, and two more deaths
quickly followed. I now had to do the Sacristy work single-handed,
and I wonder sometimes how I was equal to it all.

One morning, when it was time to rise, I had a presentiment that Sister
Magdalen was no more. The dormitory was quite in darkness, no one was
leaving her cell. I decided, however, to go in to Sister Magdalen, and
I found her dressed, but lying dead on her bed. I was not in the
least afraid, and running to the Sacristy I quickly brought a blessed
candle, and placed on her head a wreath of roses. Amid all this desolation
I felt the Hand of God and knew that His Heart was watching over us. Our
dear Sisters left this life for a happier one without any struggle; an
expression of heavenly joy shone on their faces, and they seemed only
to be enjoying a pleasant sleep.

During all these long and trying weeks I had the unspeakable
consolation of receiving Holy Communion every day. How sweet it was! For
a long time Jesus treated me as a spoilt child, for a longer time than
His more faithful Spouses. He came to me daily for several months after
the influenza had ceased, a privilege not granted to the Community. I had
not asked this favour, but I was unspeakably happy to be united day after
day to my Beloved.

Great was my joy in being allowed to touch the Sacred Vessels and prepare
the Altar linen on which Our Lord was to be laid. I felt that I must
increase in fervour, and I often recalled those words addressed to deacons
at their ordination: "Be you holy, you who carry the Vessels of
the Lord."
What can I tell you, dear Mother, about my thanksgivings after
Communion? There is no time when I taste less consolation. But
this is what I should expect.

I desire to receive Our Lord, not for my own satisfaction, but simply
to give Him pleasure.

I picture my soul as a piece of waste ground and beg Our Blessed Lady
to take away my imperfections--which are as heaps of rubbish--and to
build upon it a splendid tabernacle worthy of Heaven, and adorn it with
her own adornments. Then I invite all the Angels and Saints to come and
sing canticles of love, and it seems to me that Jesus is well pleased
to see Himself received so grandly, and I share in His joy. But all this
does not prevent distractions and drowsiness from troubling me, and not
unfrequently I resolve to continue my thanksgiving throughout the
day, since I made it so badly in choir.

You see, dear Mother, that my way is not the way of fear; I can always
make myself happy, and profit by my imperfections, and Our Lord Himself
encourages me in this path. Once, contrary to my usual custom, I felt
troubled when I approached the Holy Table.
For several days there had not been a sufficient number of Hosts, and I had
only received a small part of one; this morning I foolishly thought: "If
the same thing happens to-day, I shall imagine that Jesus does not care
to come into my heart." I approached the rails. What a joy awaited me! The
Priest hesitated a moment, then gave me two entire Hosts. Was this not
a sweet response?

I have much to be thankful for. I will tell you quite openly what the
Lord has done for me. He has shown unto me the same mercy as unto King
Solomon. All my desires have been satisfied; not only my desires of
perfection, but even those of which I understood the vanity, in theory,
if not in practice. I had always looked on Sister Agnes of Jesus as
my model, and I wished to be like her in everything. She used to paint
exquisite miniatures and write beautiful poems, and this inspired me
with a desire to learn to paint,[4] and express my thoughts in verse,
that I might do some good to those around me. But I would not ask for these
natural gifts, and my desire remained hidden in my heart.

Jesus, too, had hidden Himself in this poor little heart, and He was pleased
to show me once more the vanity of all that passes. To the great
astonishment of the Community, I succeeded in painting several pictures
and in writing poems which have been a help to certain souls. And just as
Solomon, "turning to all the works which his hand had wrought, and to
the labours wherein he had laboured in vain, saw in all things vanity and
vexation of mind,"[5] so experience showed me that the sole happiness
of earth consists in lying hidden, and remaining in total ignorance of
created things. I understood that without love even the most brilliant
deeds count for nothing. These gifts, which Our Lord lavished upon me, far
from doing me any harm, drew me towards Him; I saw that He alone is
unchangeable, He alone can fill the vast abyss of my desires.

Talking of my desires, I must tell you about others of quite a
different kind, which the Divine Master has also been pleased to grant:
childish desires, like the wish for snow on my clothing day.
You know, dear Mother, how fond I am of flowers. When I made myself
a prisoner at the age of fifteen, I gave up for ever the delights of
rambling through meadows bright with the treasures of spring. Well, I
never possessed so many flowers as I have had since entering the
Carmel. In the world young men present their betrothed with beautiful
bouquets, and Jesus did not forget me.
For His Altar I received, in abundance, all the flowers I loved best:
cornflowers, poppies, marguerites--one little friend only was missing, the
purple vetch. I longed to see it again, and at last it came to gladden
me and show that, in the least as in the greatest, God gives a
hundred-fold, even in this life, to those who have left all for His
Love.

But one desire, the dearest of all, and for many reasons the most
difficult, remained unfulfilled.

It was to see Céline enter the Carmel of Lisieux. However, I had made
a sacrifice of my longing, and committed to God alone the future of my
loved sister. I was willing she should be sent to far distant lands
if it must be so; but I wanted above all things to see her like
myself, the Spouse of Jesus.

I suffered deeply, aware that she was exposed in the world to dangers
I had never even known. My affection for her was maternal rather than
sisterly, and I was filled with solicitude for the welfare of her soul.

She was to go one evening with my aunt and cousins to a dance. I know not
why, but I felt more anxious than usual, and I shed many tears, imploring
Our Lord to hinder her dancing. And this was just what happened; for He
did not suffer His little Spouse to dance that evening, although
as a rule she did so most gracefully. And, to the astonishment of
everyone, her partner, too, found that he was only able to walk
gravely up and down with Mademoiselle. The poor young man slipped
away in confusion, and did not dare appear again that evening. This unique
occurrence increased my confidence in Our Lord, and showed me clearly that
He had already set His seal on my sister's brow.

On July 29, 1894, God called my saintly and much-tried Father to
Himself.

For the last two years of his life he was completely paralysed; so my
uncle took him into his house and surrounded him with the tenderest care.
He became quite helpless and was only able to visit us once during the
whole course of his illness. It was a sad interview.

At the moment of parting, as we said good-bye, he raised his eyes,
and pointing upwards said in a voice full of tears: "In Heaven!"
Now that he was with God, the last ties which kept his consoling Angel
in the world were broken. Angels do not remain on this earth; when they
have accomplished their mission, they return instantly to Heaven. That
is why they have wings. Céline tried therefore to fly to the Carmel;
but the obstacles seemed insurmountable. One day, when matters
were going from bad to worse, I said to Our Lord after Holy Communion:
"Thou knowest, dear Jesus, how earnestly I have desired that the trials
my Father endured should serve as his purgatory.

I long to know if my wish is granted. I do not ask Thee to speak to me, I
only want a sign.
Thou knowest how much opposed is Sister N. to Céline's entering; if she
withdraw her opposition, I shall regard it as an answer from Thee, and
in this way I shall know that my Father went straight to Heaven."
God, Who holds in His Hand the hearts of His creatures, and inclines
them as He will, deigned in His infinite mercy and ineffable condescension
to change that Sister's mind. She was the first person I met after my
thanksgiving, and, with tears in her eyes, she spoke of Céline's entrance,
which she now ardently desired. Shortly afterwards the Bishop set every
obstacle aside, and then you were able, dear Mother, without any
hesitation, to open our doors to the poor little exile.[6]
Now I have no desire left, unless it be to love Jesus even unto
folly! It is Love alone that draws me. I no longer wish either
for suffering or death, yet both are precious to me. Long did I call
upon them as the messengers of joy. I have suffered much, and I
have thought my barque near indeed to the Everlasting Shore. From
earliest childhood I have imagined that the Little Flower would be gathered
in its springtime; now, the spirit of self-abandonment alone is my guide.
I have no other compass, and know not how to ask anything with eagerness,
save the perfect accomplishment of God's designs upon my soul. I can
say these words of the Canticle of our Father, St. John of the Cross:

"I drank deep in the cellar of my Friend, And, coming forth again,
Knew naught of all this plain, And lost the flock I erst was wont
to tend.

My soul and all its wealth I gave to be His Own; No more I tend my flock,
all other work is done, And all my exercise is Love alone."[7]
Or rather:

"Love hath so wrought in me Since I have known its sway, That
all within me, whether good or ill, It makes subservient to the end
it seeks, And soon transforms my soul into itself."[8]
Full sweet is the way of Love. It is true one may fall and be unfaithful
to grace; but Love, knowing how to profit by everything, quickly
consumes whatever is displeasing to Jesus, leaving in the heart only a
deep and humble peace. I have obtained many spiritual lights through
the works of St. John of the Cross.
When I was seventeen and eighteen they were my only food; but, later on,
and even now, all spiritual authors leave me cold and dry. However
beautiful and touching a book may be, my heart does not respond, and
I read without understanding, or, if I understand, I cannot meditate.
In my helplessness the Holy Scriptures and the _Imitation_ are of
the greatest assistance; in them I find a hidden manna, genuine and pure.
But it is from the Gospels that I find most help in the time of prayer;
from them I draw all that I need for my poor soul. I am always discovering
in them new lights and hidden mysterious meanings. I know and I have
experienced that "the Kingdom of God is within us

."[9] Our Lord has no need of books or teachers to instruct our
souls. He, the Teacher of Teachers, instructs us without any noise
of words. I have never heard Him speak, yet I know He is within me. He is
there, always guiding and inspiring me; and just when I need them, lights,
hitherto unseen, break in. This is not as a rule during my prayers, but
in the midst of my daily duties. Sometimes, however, as this evening,
at the close of a meditation spent in utter dryness, a word of comfort
is given to me: "Here is the Master I give thee, He will teach
thee all that thou shouldst do.

I wish thee to read in the Book of Life in which is contained the
science of love. . . ."[10]
The Science of Love! How sweetly do these words echo in my soul!
That science alone do I desire. Having given all my substance for it, like
the Spouse in the Canticles, "I think that I have given nothing."[11]
After so many graces, may I not sing with the Psalmist that "the Lord
is good, that His Mercy endureth for ever"?[12]
It seems to me that if everyone were to receive such favours God would be
feared by none, but loved to excess; that no one would ever commit the
least wilful fault--and this through love, not fear.

Yet all souls cannot be alike.

It is necessary that they should differ from one another in order that
each Divine Perfection may receive its special honour. To me, He has given
His Infinite Mercy, and it is in this ineffable mirror that I contemplate
his other attributes. Therein all appear to me radiant with Love. His
Justice, even more perhaps than the rest, seems to me to be clothed with
Love. What joy to think that Our Lord is just, that is to say, that He
takes our weakness into account, that He knows perfectly the frailty
of our nature! Of what, then, need I be afraid?

Will not the God of Infinite Justice, Who deigns so lovingly to pardon
the sins of the Prodigal Son, be also just to me "who am always
with Him"?[13]
In the year 1895 I received the grace to understand, more than ever, how
much Jesus desires to be loved. Thinking one day of those who offer
themselves as victims to the Justice of God, in order to turn aside the
punishment reserved for sinners by taking it upon themselves, I felt
this offering to be noble and generous, but was very far from feeling
myself drawn to make it. "O my Divine Master," I cried from the bottom
of my heart, "shall Thy Justice alone receive victims of holocaust? Has
not Thy Merciful Love also need thereof? On all sides it is ignored,
rejected . . .

the hearts on which Thou wouldst lavish it turn to creatures, there to
seek their happiness in the miserable satisfaction of a moment, instead
of casting themselves into Thine Arms, into the unfathomable furnace
of Thine Infinite Love.

"O my God! must Thy Love which is disdained lie hidden in Thy Heart?
Methinks, if Thou shouldst find souls offering themselves as victims
of holocaust to Thy Love, Thou wouldst consume them rapidly;
Thou wouldst be well pleased to suffer the flames of infinite
tenderness to escape that are imprisoned in Thy Heart.

"If Thy Justice--which is of earth--must needs be satisfied, how
much more must Thy Merciful Love desire to inflame souls, since
_"Thy mercy reacheth even to the Heavens"_?

[14] O Jesus! Let me be that happy victim--consume Thy holocaust
with the Fire of Divine Love!"
Dear Mother, you know the love, or rather the oceans of grace which
flooded my soul immediately after I made that Act of Oblation on
June 9, 1895.

From that day I have been penetrated and surrounded with love. Every
moment this Merciful Love renews me and purifies me, leaving in my soul
no trace of sin. I cannot fear Purgatory; I know I do not merit to
enter, even, into that place of expiation with the Holy Souls, but I
also know that the fire of Love is more sanctifying than the fire of
Purgatory. I know that Jesus could not wish useless suffering for
us, and He would not inspire me with the desires I feel, were He not
willing to fulfill them.
______________________________ 
[1] Psalm 102[103]:14

.

[2] Phil. 4:7.

[3] This letter, the style of which may seem strange to English ears,
is modelled closely on the formal and quaint letters whereby French
parents of the better class announce to their friends the marriage of
their children. Such letters of _"faire-part"_ are issued in the name
of relatives to the third or fourth degree.
[Ed.]
[4] Thérèse had kept this wish hidden in her heart from the days of her
childhood, and later in life she made the following confidence:
"I was ten the day Papa told Céline that she was to begin painting
lessons. I felt quite envious. Then he turned to me and said: 'Well,
little Queen, would you like to learn painting too?' I was going to say:
'Yes, indeed I should,' when Marie remarked that I had not the same
taste for it as Céline. She carried her point, and I said nothing,
thinking it was a splendid opportunity to make a big sacrifice for Our
Lord; I was so anxious to learn, that even now I wonder how I was
able to keep silence."
[5] Eccl. 2:11.

[6] Céline entered the Convent on September 14, 1894, and took the name
of Sister Genevieve of St. Teresa.

[7] Spiritual Canticle: Stanzas 18 and 20.

[8] Hymn to the Deity.

[9] Luke 17:21.

[10] Revelation of Our Lord to Bd. Margaret Mary.

[11] Cant. 8:7.

[12] Psalm 103[104]:1.

[13] Luke 15:31.

[14] Cf. Psalm 35[36]:6.

______________________________

CHAPTER IX THE NIGHT OF THE SOUL
Dear Mother, I thought I had written enough, and now you wish for more
details of my religious life. I will not argue, but I cannot help smiling
when I have to tell you things that you know quite as well as I do.
Nevertheless, I will obey. I do not ask what use this manuscript can
be to any one, I assure you that even were you to burn it before
my eyes, without having read it, I should not mind in the least.

The opinion is not uncommon in the Community that you have always
indulged me, ever since I entered the Convent; however, "Man seeth those
things that appear, but the Lord beholdeth the heart."[1] Dear Mother,
once again I thank you for not having spared me.
Jesus knew well that His Little Flower needed the life-giving water
of humiliation--it was too weak to take root otherwise, and to you it
owes so great a blessing. But for some months, the Divine Master has
entirely changed His method of cultivating His Little Flower. Finding no
doubt that it has been sufficiently watered, He now allows it to
expand under the warm rays of a brilliant sun. He smiles on it, and this
favour also comes through you, dear Mother, but far from doing it harm,
those smiles make the Little Flower grow in a wondrous way. Deep
down in its heart it treasures those precious drops of dew--the mortifications
of other days--and they remind it that it is small and frail. Even were
all creatures to draw near to admire and flatter it, that would not add a
shade of idle satisfaction to the true joy which thrills it, on
realising that in God's Eyes it is but a poor, worthless thing, and nothing
more.

When I say that I am indifferent to praise, I am not speaking, dear
Mother, of the love and confidence you show me; on the contrary I am
deeply touched thereby, but I feel that I have now nothing to fear, and
I can listen to those praises unperturbed, attributing to God all
that is good in me. If it please Him to make me appear better than I am,
it is nothing to me, He can act as He will. My God, how many ways dost
Thou lead souls! We read of Saints who left absolutely nothing at their
death, not the least thing by which to remember them, not even a
single line of writing; and there are others like our holy Mother,
St.

Teresa, who have enriched the Church with their sublime teaching, and have
not hesitated to reveal "the secrets of the King,"[2] that He may be
better known and better loved.

Which of these two ways is more pleasing to Our Lord? It seems to me that
they are equally so.

All those beloved by God have followed the inspiration of the Holy Ghost,
who commanded the prophets to write: "Tell the just man that all is
well."[3] Yes, all is well when one seeks only the Master's Will, and so
I, poor Little Flower, obey my Jesus when I try to please you, who
represent him here on earth.
You know it has ever been my desire to become a Saint, but I have
always felt, in comparing myself with the Saints, that I am as far
removed from them as the grain of sand, which the passer-by tramples
underfoot, is remote from the mountain whose summit is lost in the
clouds.
Instead of being discouraged, I concluded that God would not inspire
desires which could not be realised, and that I may aspire to
sanctity in spite of my littleness. For me to become great is
impossible. I must bear with myself and my many imperfections; but
I will seek out a means of getting to Heaven by a little way--very
short and very straight, a little way that is wholly new. We live
in an age of inventions; nowadays the rich need not trouble to climb
the stairs, they have lifts instead. Well, I mean to try and find
a lift by which I may be raised unto God, for I am too tiny to climb
the steep stairway of perfection. I have sought to find in Holy
Scripture some suggestion as to what this lift might be which I so
much desired, and I read these words uttered by the Eternal Wisdom
Itself: "Whosoever is a little one, let him come to Me."[4] Then I
drew near to God, feeling sure that I had discovered what I sought;
but wishing to know further what He would do to the little one, I
continued my search and this is what I found: "You shall be carried
at the breasts and upon the knees; as one whom the mother caresseth,
so will I comfort you."[5]
Never have I been consoled by words more tender and sweet. Thine
Arms, then, O Jesus, are the lift which must raise me up even unto
Heaven. To get there I need not grow; on the contrary, I must remain
little, I must become still less. O my God, thou hast gone beyond
my expectation, and I . . . "I will sing Thy mercies! Thou hast
taught me, O Lord, from my youth and till now I have declared Thy
wonderful works, and thus unto old age and grey hairs."[6]
What will this old age be for me? It seems to me that it could as
well be now as later: two thousand years are no more in the Eyes
of the Lord than twenty years . . . than a single day! But do not
think, dear Mother, that your child is anxious to leave you, and
deems it a greater grace to die in the morning rather than in the
evening of life; to please Jesus is what [s]he really values and
desires above all things. Now that He seems to come near and draw
her to His Heavenly Home, she is glad; she has understood that God
has need of no one to do good upon earth, still less of her than
of others. Meantime I know your will, dear Mother. You wish me to
carry out, at your side, a work which is both sweet and easy,[7]
and this work I shall complete in Heaven. You have said to me, as
Our Lord said to St. Peter: "Feed my lambs." I am amazed, for I
feel that I am so little. I have entreated you to feed your little
lambs yourself and to keep me among them. You have complied in part
with my reasonable wish, and have called me their companion, rather
than their mistress, telling me nevertheless to lead them through
fertile and shady pastures, to point out where the grass is sweetest
and best, and warn them against the brilliant but poisonous flowers,
which they must never touch except to crush under foot.
How is it, dear Mother, that my youth and inexperience have not
frightened you? Are you not afraid that I shall let your lambs stray
afar? In acting as you have done, perhaps you remembered that Our
Lord is often pleased to give wisdom to little ones.
On this earth it is rare indeed to find souls who do not measure
God's Omnipotence by their own narrow thoughts.Those old battlemented walls around
the quadrangles; many gables; the windows with stone pavilions, so very
antique, yet some of them adorned with fresh flowers in pots,--a very
sweet contrast; the ivy mantling the gray stone; and the infinite repose,
both in sunshine and shadow,--it is as if half a dozen bygone centuries
had set up their rest here, and as if nothing of the present time ever
passed through the deeply recessed archway that shuts in the College from
the street.  Not but what people have very free admittance; and many
parties of young men and girls and children came into the gardens while
we were there.

These gardens of New College are indescribably beautiful,--not gardens in
an American sense, but lawns of the richest green and softest velvet
grass, shadowed over by ancient trees, that have lived a quiet life here
for centuries, and have been nursed and tended with such care, and so
sheltered from rude winds, that certainly they must have been the
happiest of all trees.  Such a sweet, quiet, sacred, stately seclusion--
so age-long as this has been, and, I hope, will continue to be--cannot
exist anywhere else.  One side of the garden wall is formed by the
ancient wall of the city, which Cromwell's artillery battered, and which
still retains its pristine height and strength.  At intervals, there are
round towers that formed the bastions; that is to say, on the exterior
they are round towers, but within, in the garden of the College, they are
semicircular recesses, with iron garden-seats arranged round them.  The
loop-holes through which the archers and musketeers used to shoot still
pierce through deep recesses in the wall, which is here about six feet
thick.  I wish I could put into one sentence the whole impression of this
garden, but it could not be done in many pages.

We looked also at the outside of the wall, and Mr. Parker, deeply skilled
in the antiquities of the spot, showed us a weed growing,--here in little
sprigs, there in large and heavy festoons,--hanging plentifully downward
from a shallow root.  It is called the Oxford plant, being found only
here, and not easily, if at all, introduced anywhere else.  It bears a
small and pretty blue flower, not altogether unlike the forget-me-not,
and we took some of it away with us for a memorial.  We went into the
chapel of New College, which is in such fresh condition that I think it
must be modern; and yet this cannot be, since there are old brasses
inlaid into tombstones in the pavement, representing mediaeval
ecclesiastics and college dignitaries; and busts against the walls, in
antique garb; and old painted windows, unmistakable in their antiquity.
But there is likewise a window, lamentable to look at, which was painted
by Sir Joshua Reynolds, and exhibits strikingly the difference between
the work of a man who performed it merely as a matter of taste and
business, and what was done religiously and with the whole heart; at
least, it shows that the artists and public of the last age had no
sympathy with Gothic art.  In the chancel of this church there are more
painted windows, which I take to be modern, too, though they are in much
better taste, and have an infinitely better effect, than Sir Joshua's.
At any rate, with the sunshine through them, they looked very beautiful,
and tinted the high altar and the pavement with brilliant lines.

The sacristan opened a tall and narrow little recess in the wall of the
chancel, and showed it entirely filled with the crosier of William of
Wickham.  It appears to be made of silver gilt, and is a most rich and
elaborate relic, at least six feet high.  Modern art cannot, or does not,
equal the chasing and carving of this splendid crosier, which is enriched
with figures of saints and, apostles, and various Gothic devices,--very
minute, but all executed as faithfully as if the artist's salvation had
depended upon every notch he made in the silver. . . .

Leaving New College, Bennoch and I, under Mr. Parker's guidance, walked
round Christ Church meadows, part of our way lying along the banks of the
Cherwell, which unites with the Isis to form the Thames, I believe.  The
Cherwell is a narrow and remarkably sluggish stream; but is deep in
spots, and capriciously so,--so that a person may easily step from
knee-deep to fifteen feet in depth.  A gentleman present used a queer
expression in reference to the drowning of two college men; he said "it
was an awkward affair."  I think this is equal to Longfellow's story of
the Frenchman who avowed himself very much "displeased" at the news of
his father's death.  At the confluence of the Cherwell and Isis we saw a
good many boats, belonging to the students of the various colleges; some
of them being very large and handsome barges, capable of accommodating a
numerous party, with room on board for dancing and merry-making.  Some of
them are calculated to be drawn by horses, in the manner of canal-boats;
others are propellable by oars.  It is practicable to perform the voyage
between Oxford and London--a distance of about one hundred and thirty
miles--in three days.  The students of Oxford are famous boatmen; there
is a constant rivalship, on this score, among the different colleges; and
annually, I believe, there is a match between Oxford and Cambridge.  The
Cambridge men beat the Oxonians in this year's trial.

On our return into the city, we passed through Christ Church, which, as
regards the number of students, is the most considerable college of the
University.  It has a stately dome; but my memory is confused with
battlements, towers, and gables, and Gothic staircases and cloisters.  If
there had been nothing else in Oxford but this one establishment, my
anticipations would not have been disappointed.  The bell was tolling for
worship in the chapel; and Mr. Parker told us that Dr. Pusey is a canon,
or in some sort of dignity, in Christ Church, and would soon probably
make his appearance in the quadrangle, on his way to chapel; so we walked
to and fro, waiting an opportunity to see him.  --Cicero, De Divin., ii.]

"Sanitatis patrocinium est, insanientium turba."
["The multitude of fools is a protection to the wise." --St. Augustine,
De Civit. Dei, vi. 10.]
'Tis hard to resolve a man's judgment against the common opinions: the
first persuasion, taken from the very subject itself, possesses the
simple, and from them diffuses itself to the wise, under the authority
of the number and antiquity of the witnesses. For my part, what
I should not believe from one, I should not believe from a hundred
and one: and I do not judge opinions by years.

'Tis not long since one of our princes, in whom the gout had spoiled
an excellent nature and sprightly disposition, suffered himself to be
so far persuaded with the report made to him of the marvellous operations
of a certain priest who by words and gestures cured all sorts of diseases,
as to go a long journey to seek him out, and by the force of his mere
imagination, for some hours so persuaded and laid his legs asleep, as to
obtain that service from them they had long time forgotten. Had fortune
heaped up five or six such-like incidents, it had been enough to have
brought this miracle into nature. There was afterwards discovered so
much simplicity and so little art in the author of these performances,
that he was thought too contemptible to be punished, as would be
thought of most such things, were they well examined:

"Miramur ex intervallo fallentia."
["We admire after an interval (or at a distance) things that deceive."--Seneca,
Ep., 118, 2.]
So does our sight often represent to us strange images at a distance
that vanish on approaching near:
"Nunquam ad liquidum fama perducitur."

["Report is never fully substantiated." --Quintus Curtius, ix. 2.]
'Tis wonderful from how many idle beginnings and frivolous causes such
famous impressions commonly, proceed.

This it is that obstructs information; for whilst we seek out causes and
solid and weighty ends, worthy of so great a name, we lose the true ones;
they escape our sight by their littleness. And, in truth, a very prudent,
diligent, and subtle inquisition is required in such searches, indifferent,
and not prepossessed. To this very hour, all these miracles and strange
events have concealed themselves from me: I have never seen greater
monster or miracle in the world than myself: one grows familiar with
all strange things by time and custom, but the more I frequent and the
better I know myself, the more does my own deformity astonish me, the
less I understand myself.

The principal right of advancing and producing such accidents is reserved
to fortune. Passing the day before yesterday through a village two
leagues from my house, I found the place yet warm with a miracle
that had lately failed of success there, where with first the neighbourhood
had been several months amused; then the neighbouring provinces
began to take it up, and to run thither in great companies of all sorts
of people.
A young fellow of the place had one night in sport counterfeited the voice
of a spirit in his own house, without any other design at present, but
only for sport; but this having succeeded with him better than he
expected, to extend his farce with more actors he associated with him
a stupid silly country girl, and at last there were three of them of
the same age and understanding, who from domestic, proceeded to public,
preachings, hiding themselves under the altar of the church, never
speaking but by night, and forbidding any light to be brought.

From words which tended to the conversion of the world, and threats of
the day of judgment (for these are subjects under the authority and
reverence of which imposture most securely lurks), they proceeded
to visions and gesticulations so simple and ridiculous that--nothing could
hardly be so gross in the sports of little children. Yet had fortune
never so little favoured the design, who knows to what height this juggling
might have at last arrived? These poor devils are at present in prison,
and are like shortly to pay for the common folly; and I know not whether
some judge will not also make them smart for his. We see clearly
into this, which is discovered; but in many things of the like
nature that exceed our knowledge, I am of opinion that we ought to
suspend our judgment, whether as to rejection or as to reception.From the kitchen we went to the chapel, which is the cathedral of Oxford,
and well worth seeing, if there had not been so many other things to see.
It is now under repair, and there was a great heap of old wood-work and
panelling lying in one of the aisles, which had been stripped away from
some of the ancient pillars, leaving them as good as new.  There is a
shrine of a saint, with a wooden canopy over it; and some painted glass,
old and new; and a statue of Cyril Jackson, with a face of shrewdness and
insight; and busts, as mural monuments.

Our next visit was to


MERTON COLLEGE,


which, though not one of the great colleges, is as old as any of them,
and looks exceedingly venerable.  We were here received by a friend of
Mr. Spiers, in his academic cap, but without his gown, which is not worn,
except in term time.  He is a very civil gentleman, and showed us some
antique points of architecture,--such as a Norman archway, with a passage
over it, through which the Queen of Charles I. used to go to chapel; and
an edifice of the thirteenth century, with a stone roof, which is
considered to be very curious.

How ancient is the aspect of these college quadrangles! so gnawed by time
as they are, so crumbly, so blackened, and so gray where they are not
black,--so quaintly shaped, too, with here a line of battlement and there
a row of gables; and here a turret, with probably a winding stair inside;
and lattice-windows, with stone mullions, and little panes of glass set
in lead; and the cloisters, with a long arcade, looking upon the green or
pebbled enclosure.  The quality of the stone has a great deal to do with
the apparent antiquity.  It is a stone found in the neighborhood of
Oxford, and very soon begins to crumble and decay superficially, when
exposed to the weather; so that twenty years do the work of a hundred, so
far as appearances go.  If you strike one of the old walls with a stick,
a portion of it comes powdering down.  The effect of this decay is very
picturesque, and is especially striking, I think, on edifices of classic
architecture, such as some of the Oxford colleges are, greatly enriching
the Grecian columns, which look so cold when the outlines are hard and
distinct.  The Oxford people, however, are tired of this crumbly stone,
and when repairs are necessary, they use a more durable material, which
does not well assort with the antiquity into which it is intruded.

Mr. E------ showed us the library of Merton College.  It occupies two
sides of an old building, and has a very delightful fragrance of ancient
books.  The halls containing it are vaulted, and roofed with oak, not
carved and ornamented, but laid flat, so that they look very like a grand
and spacious old garret.  All along, there is a row of alcoves on each
side, with rude benches and reading-desks, in the simplest style, and
nobody knows how old.  The books look as old as the building.  The more
valuable were formerly chained to the bookcases; and a few of them have
not yet broken their chains.  It was a good emblem of the dark and
monkish ages, when learning was imprisoned in their cloisters, and
chained in their libraries, in the days when the schoolmaster had not yet
gone abroad.  Mr. E------ showed us a very old copy of the Bible; and a
vellum manuscript, most beautifully written in black-letter and
illuminated, of the works of Duns Scotus, who was a scholar of Merton
College.

He then showed us the chapel, a large part of which has been renewed and
ornamented with pictured windows and other ecclesiastical splendor, and
paved with encaustic tiles, according to the Puseyite taste of the day;
for Merton has adopted the Puseyite doctrines, and is one of their chief
strongholds in Oxford.  If they do no other good, they at least do much
for the preservation and characteristic restoration of the old English
churches; but perhaps, even here, there is as much antiquity spoiled as
retained.  In the portion of the chapel not yet restored, we saw the rude
old pavement, inlaid with gravestones, in some of which were brasses,
with the figures of the college dignitaries, whose dust slumbered
beneath; and I think it was here that I saw the tombstone of
Anthony-a-Wood, the gossiping biographer of the learned men of Oxford.

From the chapel we went into the college gardens, which are very
pleasant, and possess the advantage of looking out on the broad verdure
of Christ Church meadows and the river beyond.  We loitered here awhile,
and then went to Mr. ------'s rooms, to which the entrance is by a fine
old staircase.  They had a very comfortable, aspect,--a wainscoted parlor
and bedroom, as nice and cosey as a bachelor could desire, with a good
collection of theological books; and on a peg hung his gown, with a red
border about it, denoting him to be a proproctor.  He was kind enough to
order a lunch, consisting of bread and cheese, college ale, and a certain
liquor called "Archdeacon." . . . . We ate and drank, . . . . and,
bidding farewell to good Mr. E------, we pursued our way to the


RATCLIFFE LIBRARY.


This is a very handsome edifice, of a circular shape; the lower story
consisting altogether of arches, open on all sides, as if to admit
anybody to the learning here stored up.  I always see great beauty and
lightsomeness in these classic and Grecian edifices, though they seem
cold and intellectual, and not to have had their mortar moistened with
human life-blood, nor to have the mystery of human life in them, as
Gothic structures do.  The library is in a large and beautiful room, in
the story above the basement, and, as far as I saw, consisted chiefly or
altogether of scientific works.  I saw Silliman's Journal on one of the
desks, being the only trace of American science, or American learning or
ability in any department, which I discovered in the University of
Oxford.  After seeing the library, we went to the top of the building,
where we had an excellent view of Oxford and the surrounding country.
Then we went to the Convocation Hall, and afterwards to the theatre,
where S----- sat down in the Chancellor's chair, which is very broad, and
ponderously wrought of oak.  I remember little here, except the
amphitheatre of benches, and the roof, which seems to be supported by
golden ropes, and on the wall, opposite the door, some full-length
portraits, among which one of that ridiculous coxcomb, George IV., was
the most prominent.  These kings thrust themselves impertinently forward
by bust, statue, and picture, on all occasions, and it is not wise in
them to show their shallow foreheads among men of mind.


THE BODLEIAN LIBRARY.


Mr. Spiers tried to get us admittance to the Bodleian Library; but this
is just the moment when it is closed for the purpose of being cleaned; so
we missed seeing the principal halls of this library, and were only
admitted into what was called the Picture Gallery.  This, however,
satisfied all my desires, so far as the backs of books are concerned, for
they extend through a gallery, running round three sides of a quadrangle,
making an aggregate length of more than four hundred feet,--a solid array
of bookcases, full of books, within a protection of open iron-work.  Up
and down the gallery there are models of classic temples; and about
midway in its extent stands a brass statue of Earl Pembroke, who was
Chancellor of the University in James I's time; not in scholarly garb,
however, but in plate and mail, looking indeed like a thunderbolt of war.
I rapped him with my knuckles, and he seemed to be solid metal, though, I
should imagine, hollow at heart.  A thing which interested me very much
was the lantern of Guy Fawkes.  It was once tinned, no doubt, but is now
nothing but rusty iron, partly broken.  As this is called the Picture
Gallery, I must not forget the pictures, which are ranged in long
succession over the bookcases, and include almost all Englishmen whom the
world has ever heard of, whether in statesmanship or literature, I saw a
canvas on which had once been a lovely and unique portrait of Mary of
Scotland; but it was consigned to a picture-cleaner to be cleansed, and,
discovering that it was painted over another picture, he had the
curiosity to clean poor Mary quite away, thus revealing a wishy-washy
woman's face, which now hangs in the gallery.  I am so tired of seeing
notable things that I almost wish that whatever else is remarkable in
Oxford could be obliterated in some similar manner.

From the Bodleian we went to


THE TAYLOR INSTITUTE,


which was likewise closed; but the woman who had it in charge had
formerly been a servant of Mr. Spiers, and he so overpersuaded her that
she finally smiled and admitted us.  It would truly have been a pity to
miss it; for here, on the basement floor, are the original models of
Chantrey's busts and statues, great and small; and in the rooms above are
a far richer treasure,--a large collection of original drawings by
Raphael and Michael Angelo.  These are far better for my purpose than
their finished pictures,--that is to say, they bring me much closer to
the hands that drew them and the minds that imagined them.  It is like
looking into their brains, and seeing the first conception before it took
shape outwardly (I have somewhere else said about the same thing of such
sketches).  I noticed one of Raphael's drawings, representing the effect
of eloquence; it was a man speaking in the centre of a group, between
whose ears and the orator's mouth connecting lines were drawn.  Raphael's
idea must have been to compose his picture in such a way that their
auricular organs should not fail to be in a proper relation with the
eloquent voice; and though this relation would not have been individually
traceable in the finished picture, yet the general effect--that of deep
and entranced attention--would have been produced.

In another room there are some copies of Raphael's cartoons, and some
queer mediaeval pictures, as stiff and ugly as can well be conceived, yet
successful in telling their own story.  We looked a little while at
these, and then, thank Heaven! went home and dressed for dinner.  I can
write no more to-day.  Indeed, what a mockery it is to write at all!

[Here follows the drive to Cumnor Place, Stanton Harcourt, Nuneham
Courtney, Godstowe, etc.,--already published in Our Old Home.--ED.]


September 9th.--The morning after our excursion on the Thames was as
bright and beautiful as many preceding ones had been.  After breakfast
S----- and I walked a little about the town, and bought Thomas a Kempis,
in both French and English, for U----. . . . Mr. De la Motte, the
photographer, had breakfasted with us, and Mr. Spiers wished him to take
a photograph of our whole party.  So, in the first place, before the rest
were assembled, he made an experimental group of such as were there; and
I did not like my own aspect very much.  Afterwards, when we were all
come, he arranged us under a tree in the garden,--Mr. and Mrs. Spiers,
with their eldest son, Mr. and Mrs. Hall and Fanny, Mr. Addison, my wife
and me,--and stained the glass with our figures and faces in the
twinkling of an eye; not S-----'s face, however, for she turned it away,
and left only a portion of her bonnet and dress,--and Mrs. Hall, too,
refused to countenance the proceeding.  But all the rest of us were
caught to the life, and I was really a little startled at recognizing
myself so apart from myself, and done so quickly too.

This was the last important incident of our visit to Oxford, except that
Mr. Spiers was again most hospitable at lunch.  Never did anybody attend
more faithfully to the comfort of his friends than does this good
gentleman.  But he has shown himself most kind in every possible way, and
I shall always feel truly grateful.  No better way of showing our sense
of his hospitality, and all the trouble he has taken for us (and our
memory of him), has occurred to us, than to present him with a set of my
Tales and Romances; so, by the next steamer, I shall write to Ticknor and
Fields to send them, elegantly bound, and S----- will emblazon his coat
of arms in each volume.  He accompanied us and Mr. and Mrs. Hall to the
railway station, and we left Oxford at two o'clock.

It had been a very pleasant visit, and all the persons whom we met were
kind and agreeable, and disposed to look at one another in a sunny
aspect.  I saw a good deal of Mr. Hall.  He is a thoroughly genuine man,
of kind heart and true affections, a gentleman of taste and refinement,
and full of humor.

On the Saturday after our return to Blackheath, we went to


HAMPTON COURT,


about which, as I have already recorded a visit to it, I need say little
here.  But I was again impressed with the stately grandeur of Wolsey's
great Hall, with its great window at each end, and one side window,
descending almost to the floor, and a row of windows on each side, high
towards the roof, and throwing down their many-colored light on the stone
pavement, and on the Gobelin tapestry, which must have been gorgeously
rich when the walls were first clothed with it.  I fancied, then, that no
modern architect could produce so fine a room; but oddly enough, in the
great entrance-hall of the Euston station, yesterday, I could not see how
this last fell very much short of Wolsey's Hall in grandeur.  We were
quite wearied in passing through the endless suites of rooms in Hampton
Court, and gazing at the thousands of pictures; it is too much for one
day,--almost enough for one life, in such measure as life can be bestowed
on pictures.  It would have refreshed us had we spent half the time in
wandering about the grounds, which, as we glimpsed at them from the
windows of the Palace, seemed very beautiful, though laid out with an
antique formality of straight lines and broad gravelled paths.  Before
the central window there is a beautiful sheet of water, and a fountain
upshooting itself and plashing into it, with a continuous and pleasant
sound.  How beautifully the royal robe of a monarchy is embroidered!
Palaces, pictures, parks!  They do enrich life; and kings and
aristocracies cannot keep these things to themselves, they merely take
care of them for others.  Even a king, with all the glory that can be
shed around him, is but the liveried and bedizened footman of his people,
and the toy of their delight.  I am very glad that I came to this country
while the English are still playing with such a toy.

Yesterday J----- and I left Blackheath, and reached Liverpool last night.
The rest of my family will follow in a few days; and so finishes our
residence in Bennoch's house, where I, for my part, have spent some of
the happiest hours that I have known since we left our American home.
It is a strange, vagabond, gypsy sort of life,--this that we are leading;
and I know not whether we shall finally be spoiled for any other, or
shall enjoy our quiet Wayside, as we never did before, when once we reach
it again.

The evening set in misty and obscure; and it was dark almost when J-----
and I arrived at the landing stage on our return.  I was struck with the
picturesque effect of the high tower and tall spire of St. Nicholas,
rising upward, with dim outline, into the duskiness; while midway of its
height the dial-plates of an illuminated clock blazed out, like two great
eyes of a giant.


September 13th.--On Saturday my wife, with all her train, arrived at Mrs.
B------'s; and on Tuesday--vagabonds as we are--we again struck our tent,
and set out for


SOUTHPORT.


I do not know what sort of character it will form in the children,--this
unsettled, shifting, vagrant life, with no central home to turn to,
except what we carry in ourselves.  It was a windy day, and, judging by
the look of the trees, on the way to Southport, it must be almost always
windy, and with the blast in one prevailing direction; for invariably
their branches, and the whole contour and attitude of the tree, turn from
seaward, with a strangely forlorn aspect.  Reaching Southport, we took an
omnibus, and under the driver's guidance came to our tall stone house,
fronting on the sands, and styled "Brunswick Terrace." . . . .

The English system of lodging-houses has its good points; but it is,
nevertheless, a contrivance for bearing the domestic cares of home about
with you whithersoever you go; and immediately you have to set about
producing your own bread and cheese.  However, Fanny took most of this
trouble off our hands, though there was inevitably the stiffness and
discomfort of a new housekeeping on the first day of our arrival; besides
that, it was cool, and the wind whistled and grumbled and eddied into the
chinks of the house.

The whole letter, written on parchment, is still preserved in the archives
of the monarchy.

"The foundation of all virtue," he wrote, "is the fear of God and the
love of man. O my dear children, praise God and love your fellow-men.

It is not fasting, it is not solitude, it is not a monastic life which
will secure for you the divine approval--it is doing good to your
fellow-creatures alone. Never forget the poor. Take care of them,
and ever remember that your wealth comes from God, and that it is
only intrusted to you for a short time.

Do not hoard up your riches; that is contrary to the precepts of the
Saviour. Be a father to the orphans, the protectors of widows, and never
permit the powerful to oppress the weak. Never take the name of God in
vain, and never violate your oath. Do not envy the triumph of the
wicked, or the success of the impious; but abstain from everything that
is wrong.
Banish from your hearts all the suggestions of pride, and remember that we
are all perishable--to-day full of life, to-morrow in the tomb. Regard
with horror, falsehood, intemperance and impurity--vices equally dangerous
to the body and to the soul. Treat aged men with the same respect with
which you would treat your parents, and love all men as your
brothers.

"When you make a journey in your provinces, do not suffer the members of
your suite to inflict the least injury upon the inhabitants. Treat with
particular respect strangers, of whatever quality, and if you can
not confer upon them favors, treat them with a spirit of benevolence,
since, upon the manner with which they are treated, depends the
evil or good report which they will take back with them to their
own land.

Salute every one whom you meet. Love your wives, but do not permit them
to govern you. When you have learned any thing useful, endeavor to
imprint it upon your memory, and be always seeking to acquire information.
My father spoke five languages, a fact which excited the admiration
of strangers.

"Guard against idleness, which is the mother of all vices. Man ought always
to be occupied. When you are traveling on horseback, instead of allowing
your mind to wander upon vain thoughts, recite your prayers, or, at least,
repeat the shortest and best of them all: '_Oh, Lord, have mercy
upon us

.'_ Never retire at night without falling upon your knees before God
in prayer, and never let the sun find you in your bed. Always go to church
at an early hour in the morning to offer to God the homage of your first
and freshest thoughts. This was the custom of my father and of all the
pious people who surrounded him.
With the first rays of the sun they praised the Lord, and exclaimed, with
fervor, 'Condescend, O Lord, with thy divine light to illumine my soul.'"

The faults of Monomaque were those of his age, _non vitia hominis, sed vitia
soeculi_; but his virtues were truly Christian, and it can hardly be
doubted that, as his earthly crown dropped from his brow, he received
a brighter crown in heaven. The devastations of the barbarians in
that day were so awful, burning cities and churches, and massacring women
and children, that they were regarded as enemies of the human race, and
were pursued with exterminating vengeance.

Monomaque left several children and a third wife. One of his wives,
Gyda, was a daughter of Harold, King of England. His oldest son, Mstislaf,
succeeded to the crown. His brothers received, as their inheritance,
the government of extensive provinces. The new monarch, inheriting
the energies and the virtues of his illustrious sire, had long been
renowned. The barbarians, east of the Volga, as soon as they heard of the
death of Monomaque, thought that Russia would fall an easy prey to
their arms.

In immense numbers they crossed the river, spreading far and wide the most
awful devastation. But Mstislaf fell upon them with such impetuosity that
they were routed with great slaughter and driven back to their wilds. Their
chastisement was so severe that, for a long time, they were
intimidated from any further incursions. With wonderful energy, Mstislaf
attacked many of the tributary nations, who had claimed a sort of
independence, and who were ever rising in insurrection. He speedily
brought them into subjection to his sway, and placed over them
rulers devoted to his interests. In the dead of winter an expedition
was marched against the Tchoudes, who inhabited the southern shores of the
bay of Finland. The men were put to death, the cities and villages burned;
the women and children were brought away as captives and incorporated
with the Russian people.

Mstislaf reigned but about four years, when he suddenly died in
the sixtieth year of his age. His whole reign was an incessant warfare
with insurgent chiefs and barbarian invaders. There is an awful record,
at this time, of the scourge of famine added to the miseries of war. All
the northern provinces suffered terribly from this frown of God. Immense
quantities of snow covered the ground even to the month of May. The
snow then melted suddenly with heavy rains, deluging the fields with
water, which slowly retired, converting the country into a wide-spread
marsh. It was very late before any seed could be sown.

The grain had but just begun to sprout when myriads of locusts appeared,
devouring every green thing. A heavy frost early in the autumn destroyed
the few fields the locusts had spared, and then commenced the horrors of
a universal famine. Men, women and children, wasted and haggard, wandered
over the fields seeking green leaves and roots, and dropped dead in their
wanderings. The fields and the public places were covered with
putrefying corpses which the living had not strength to bury. A fetid
miasma, ascending from this cause, added pestilence to famine, and woes
ensued too awful to be described.

Immediately after the death of Mstislaf, the inhabitants of Kief assembled
and invited his brother Vladimirovitch to assume the crown.

This prince then resided at Novgorod, which city he at once left for
the capital. He proved to be a feeble prince, and the lords of the
remote principalities, assuming independence, bade defiance to his
authority. There was no longer any central power, and Russia, instead of
being a united kingdom, became a conglomeration of antagonistic
states; every feudal lord marshaling his serfs in warfare against
his neighbor.

In the midst of this state of universal anarchy, caused by the weakness
of a virtuous prince who had not sufficient energy to reign, Vladimirovitch
died in 1139.

The death of the king was a signal for a general outbreak--a multitude
of princes rushing to seize the crown. Viatcheslaf, prince of a large
province called Pereiaslavle, was the first to reach Kief with his army.
The inhabitants of the city, to avoid the horrors of war, marched in
procession to meet him, and conducted him in triumph to the throne.
Viatcheslaf had hardly grasped the scepter and stationed his army
within the walls, when from the steeples of the city the banners
of another advancing host were seen gleaming in the distance, and
soon the tramp of their horsemen, and the defiant tones of the
trumpet were heard, as another and far more mighty host encircled
the city.

This new army was led by Vsevolod, prince of a province called Vouychegorod.
Viatcheslaf, convinced of the impossibility of resisting such a power
as Vsevolod had brought against Kief, immediately consented to retire,
and to surrender the throne to his more powerful rival. Vsevolod entered
the city in triumph and established himself firmly in power.

There is nothing of interest to be recorded during his reign of seven
years, save that Russia was swept by incessant billows of flame and blood.
The princes of the provinces were ever rising against his authority.
Combinations were formed to dethrone the king, and the king formed
combinations to crush his enemies. The Hungarians, the Swedes, the Danes,
the Poles, all made war against this energetic prince; but with an iron
hand he smote them down. Toil and care soon exhausted his frame, and he
was prostrate on his dying bed. Bequeathing his throne to his brother Igor,
he died, leaving behind him the reputation of having been one of the most
energetic of the kings of this blood deluged land.

Igor was fully conscious of the perils he thus inherited. He was very
unpopular with the inhabitants of Kief, and loud murmurs greeted his
accession to power. A conspiracy was formed among the most influential
inhabitants of Kief, and a secret embassage was sent to the grand
prince, Ysiaslaf, a descendant of Monomaque, inviting him to come,
and with their aid, take possession of the throne. The prince attended
the summons with alacrity, and marched with a powerful army to Kief.
Igor was vanquished in a sanguinary battle, taken captive, imprisoned
in a convent, and Ysiaslaf became the nominal monarch of
Russia.

Sviatoslaf, the brother of Igor, overwhelmed with anguish in view of his
brother's fall and captivity, traversed the expanse of Russia to enlist
the sympathies of the distant princes, to march for the rescue of the
captive. He was quite successful. An allied army was soon raised, and,
under determined leaders, was on the march for Kief. The king, Ysiaslaf,
with his troops, advanced to meet them. In the meantime Igor, crushed
by misfortune, and hopeless of deliverance, sought solace for his woes
in religion. "For a long time," said he, "I have desired to
consecrate my heart to God. Even in the height of prosperity this was my
strongest wish. What can be more proper for me now that I am at
the very gates of the tomb?"

For eight days he laid in his cell, expecting every moment to breathe
his last. He then, reviving a little, received the tonsure from
the hands of the bishop, and renouncing the world, and all its
cares and ambitions, devoted himself to the prayers and devotions of the
monk.

The king pressed Sviatoslaf with superior forces, conquered him in several
battles, and drove him, a fugitive, into dense forests, and into distant
wilds. Sviatoslaf, like his brother, weary of the storms of life,
also sought the solace which religion affords to the weary and the
heart-stricken. Pursued by his relentless foe, he came to a little
village called Moscow, far back in the interior. This is the first
intimation history gives of this now renowned capital of the most
extensive monarchy upon the globe. A prince named Georges reigned here,
over the extensive province then called Souzdal, who received the
fugitive with heartfelt sympathy. Aided by Georges and several of the
surrounding princes, another army was raised, and Sviatoslaf commenced
a triumphal march, sweeping all opposition before him, until he
arrived a conqueror before the walls of Novgorod.

The people of Kief, enraged by this success of the foe of their popular
king, rose in a general tumult, burst into a convent where Igor was found
at his devotions, tied a rope about his neck, and dragged him, a
mutilated corpse, through the streets.

The king, Ysiaslaf, called for a _levy en masse_, of the inhabitants of
Kief, summoned distant feudal barons with their armies to his banner, and
marched impetuously to meet the conquering foe. Fierce battles ensued,
in which Sviatoslaf was repeatedly vanquished, and retreated to
Souzdal again to appeal to Georges for aid. Ysiaslaf summoned the
Novgorodians before him, and in the following energetic terms
addressed them:

"My brethren," said he, "Georges, the prince of Souzdal, has insulted
Novgorod. I have left the capital of Russia to defend you. Do you wish
to prosecute the war? The sword is in my hands. Do you desire peace? I
will open negotiations."
"War, war," the multitude shouted.

"You are our monarch, and we will all follow you, from the youngest to
the oldest."
A vast army was immediately assembled on the shores of the lake of
Ilmen, near the city of Novgorod, which commenced its march of three
hundred miles, to the remote realms of Souzdal.

Georges was unprepared to meet them. He fled, surrendering his country to
be ravaged by the foe. His cities and villages were burned, and seven
thousand of his subjects were carried captive to Kief. But Georges was not
a man to bear such a calamity meekly. He speedily succeeded in forming
an alliance with the barbarian nations around him, and burning with
rage, followed the army of the retiring foe. He overtook them near the
city of Periaslavle. It was the evening of the 23d of August. The
unclouded sun was just sinking at the close of a sultry day, and the
vesper chants were floating through the temples of the city. The
storm of war burst as suddenly as the thunder peals of an autumnal
tempest.

The result was most awful and fatal to the king. His troops were dispersed
and cut to pieces. Ysiaslaf himself with difficulty escaped and reached
the ramparts of Kief. The terrified inhabitants entreated him not to
remain, as his presence would only expose the city to the horror of
being taken by storm.

"Our fathers, our brothers, our sons," they said, "are dead upon the
field of battle, or are in chains. We have no arms. Generous prince, do
not expose the capital of Russia to pillage. Flee for a time to
your remote principalities, there to gather a new army. You know that we
will never rest contented under the government of Georges.

We will rise in revolt against him, as soon as we shall see your
standards approaching."

Ysiaslaf fled, first to Smolensk, some three hundred miles distant, and
thence traversed his principalities seeking aid. Georges entered Kief in
triumph. Calling his warriors around him, he assigned to them the
provinces which he had wrested from the feudal lords of the king.

Hungary, Bohemia and Poland then consisted of barbaric peoples just
emerging into national existence. The King of Hungary had married Euphrosine,
the youngest sister of Ysiaslaf. He immediately sent to his brother-in-law
ten thousand cavaliers. The Kings of Bohemia and of Poland also entered
into an alliance with the exiled prince, and in person led the armies
which they contributed to his aid. A war of desperation ensued. It was
as a conflict between the tiger and the lion.

The annals of those dark days contained but a weary recital of deeds of
violence, blood and woe, which for ten years desolated the land.
All Russia was roused. Every feudal lord was leading his vassals to the
field. There were combinations and counter-combinations
innumerable. Cities were taken and retaken; to-day, the banners of
Ysiaslaf float upon the battlements of Kief; to-morrow, those banners are
hewn down and the standards of Georges are unfurled to the breeze.
Now, we see Ysiaslaf a fugitive, hopeless, in despair. Again, the rolling
wheel of fortune raises him from his depression, and, with the
strides of a conqueror, he pursues his foe, in his turn vanquished
and woe-stricken.

But
"The pomp of heraldry, the pride of power, And all that beauty, all that
wealth e'er gave, Alike await the inevitable hour; The paths of
glory lead but to the grave."
Death, which Ysiaslaf had braved in a hundred battles, approached
him by the slow but resistless march of disease.

For a few days the monarch tossed in fevered restlessness on his bed at
Kief, and then, from his life of incessant storms on earth, his spirit
ascended to the God who gave it. Georges was, at that time, in the
lowest state of humiliation. His armies had all perished, and he was
wandering in exile, seeking new forces with which to renew the
strife.

Rostislaf, grand prince of Novgorod, succeeded to the throne. But Georges,
animated by the death of Ysiaslaf, soon found enthusiastic adventurers
rallying around his banners. He marched vigorously to Kief, drove Rostislaf
from the capital and seized the scepter. But there was no lull in the
tempest of human ambition. Georges had attained the throne by the
energies of his sword, and, acting upon the principle that "to the
victors belong the spoils," he had driven from their castles all
the lords who had been supporters of the past administration. He
had conferred their mansions and their territories upon his followers.
Human nature has not materially changed. Those in office were
fighting to retain their honors and emoluments. Those out of office
were struggling to attain the posts which brought wealth and renown.
The progress of civilization has, in our country, transferred this
fierce battle from the field to the ballot-box. It is, indeed, a
glorious change. The battle can be fought thus just as effectually,
and infinitely more humanely. It has required the misery of nearly
six thousand years to teach, even a few millions of mankind, that
the ballot-box is a better instrument for political conflicts than
the cartridge-box.Melville, as he always does, began to reason of Providence and
futurity, and of everything else that lies beyond human ken. . . . He
has a very high and noble nature, and is better worth immortality than
the most of us. . . . On Saturday we went to Chester together.  I love
to take every opportunity of going to Chester; it being the one only
place, within easy reach of Liverpool, which possesses any old English
interest.

We went to


THE CATHEDRAL.


Its gray nave impressed me more than at any former visit.  Passing into
the cloisters, an attendant took possession of us, and showed us about.

Within the choir there is a profusion of very rich oaken carving, both on
the screen that separates it from the nave, and on the seats and walls;
very curious and most elaborate, and lavished (one would say) most
wastefully, where nobody would think of looking for it,--where, indeed,
amid the dimness of the cathedral, the exquisite detail of the
elaboration could not possibly be seen.  Our guide lighted some of the
gas-burners, of which there are many hundreds, to help us see them; but
it required close scrutiny, even then.  It must have been out of the
question, when the whole means of illumination were only a few smoky
torches or candles.  There was a row of niches, where the monks used to
stand, for four hours together, in the performance of some of their
services; and to relieve them a little, they were allowed partially to
sit on a projection of the seats, which were turned up in the niche for
that purpose; but if they grew drowsy, so as to fail to balance
themselves, the seat was so contrived as to slip down, thus bringing the
monk to the floor.  These projections on the seats are each and all of
them carved with curious devices, no two alike.  The guide showed us one,
representing, apparently, the first quarrel of a new-married couple,
wrought with wonderful expression.  Indeed, the artist never failed to
bring out his idea in the most striking manner,--as, for instance, Satan,
under the guise of a lion, devouring a sinner bodily; and again in the
figure of a dragon, with a man halfway down his gullet, the legs hanging
out.  The carver may not have seen anything grotesque in this, nor
intended it at all by way of joke; but certainly there would appear to be
a grim mirthfulness in some of the designs.  One does not see why such
fantasies should be strewn about the holy interior of a cathedral, unless
it were intended to contain everything that belongs to the heart of man,
both upward and downward.

In a side aisle of the choir, we saw a tomb, said to be that of the
Emperor Henry IV. of Germany, though on very indistinct authority.  This
is an oblong tomb, carved, and, on one side, painted with bright colors
and gilded.  During a very long period it was built and plastered into
the wall, and the exterior side was whitewashed; but, on being removed,
the inner side was found to have been ornamented with gold and color, in
the manner in which we now see it.  If this were customary with tombs, it
must have added vastly to the gorgeous magnificence, to which the painted
windows and polished pillars and ornamented ceilings contributed so much.
In fact, a cathedral in its fresh estate seems to have been like a
pavilion of the sunset, all purple and gold; whereas now it more
resembles deepest and grayest twilight.

Afterwards, we were shown into the ancient refectory, now used as the
city grammar-school, and furnished with the usual desks and seats for the
boys.  In one corner of this large room was the sort of pulpit or
elevated seat, with a broken staircase of stone ascending to it, where
one of the monks used to read to his brethren, while sitting at their
meals.  The desks were cut and carved with the scholars' knives, just as
they used to be in the school-rooms where I was a scholar.  Thence we
passed into the chapter-house, but, before that, we went through a small
room, in which Melville opened a cupboard, and discovered a dozen or two
of wine-bottles; but our guide told us that they were now empty, and
never were meant for jollity, having held only sacramental wine.  In the
chapter-house, we saw the library, some of the volumes of which were
antique folios.  There were two dusty and tattered banners hanging on the
wall, and the attendant promised to make us laugh by something that he
would tell us about them.  The joke was that these two banners had been
in the battle of Bunker Hill; and our countrymen, he said, always
smiled on hearing this.  He had discovered us to be Americans by the
notice we took of a mural tablet in the choir, to the memory of a
Lieutenant-Governor Clarke, of New York, who died in Chester before the
Revolution.  From the chapter-house he ushered us back into the nave,
ever and anon pointing out some portion of the edifice more ancient than
the rest, and when I asked him how he knew this, he said that he had
learnt it from the archaeologists, who could read off such things like a
book.  This guide was a lively, quick-witted man, who did his business
less by rote, and more with a vivacious interest, than any guide I ever
met.

After leaving the cathedral we sought out the Yacht Inn, near the
water-gate.  This was, for a long period of time, the principal inn of
Chester, and was the house at which Swift once put up, on his way to
Holyhead, and where he invited the clergy to come and sup with him.  We
sat down in a small snuggery, conversing with the landlord.  The Chester
people, according to my experience, are very affable, and fond of talking
with strangers about the antiquities and picturesque characteristics of
their town.  It partly lives, the landlord told us, by its visitors, and
many people spend the summer here on account of the antiquities and the
good air.  He showed us a broad, balustraded staircase, leading into a
large, comfortable, old-fashioned parlor, with windows looking on the
street and on the Custom House that stood opposite.  This was the room
where Swift expected to receive the clergy of Chester; and on one of the
window-panes were two acrid lines, written with the diamond of his ring,
satirizing those venerable gentlemen, in revenge for their refusing his
invitation.  The first line begins rather indistinctly; but the writing
grows fully legible, as it proceeds.

The Yacht Tavern is a very old house, in the gabled style.  The timbers
and framework are still perfectly sound.  In the same street is the
Bishop's house (so called as having been the residence of a prelate long
ago), which is covered with curious sculpture, representing Scriptural
scenes.  And in the same neighborhood is the county court, accessible by
an archway, through which we penetrated, and found ourselves in a
passage, very ancient and dusky, overlooked from the upper story by a
gallery, to which an antique staircase ascended, with balustrades and
square landing-places.  A printer saw us here, and asked us into his
printing-office, and talked very affably; indeed, he could have hardly
been more civil, if he had known that both Melville and I have given a
good deal of employment to the brethren of his craft.


December 15th.--An old gentleman has recently paid me a good many
visits,--a Kentucky man, who has been a good deal in England and Europe
generally without losing the freshness and unconventionality of his
earlier life.  He was a boatman, and afterwards captain of a steamer on
the Ohio and Mississippi; but has gained property, and is now the owner
of mines of coal and iron, which he is endeavoring to dispose of here in
England.  A plain, respectable, well-to-do-looking personage, of more
than seventy years; very free of conversation, and beginning to talk with
everybody as a matter of course; tall, stalwart, a dark face, with white
curly hair and keen eyes; and an expression shrewd, yet kindly and
benign.  He fought through the whole War of 1812, beginning with General
Harrison at the battle of Tippecanoe, which he described to me.  He says
that at the beginning of the battle, and for a considerable time, he
heard Tecumseh's voice, loudly giving orders.  There was a man named
Wheatley in the American camp, a strange, incommunicative person,--a
volunteer, making war entirely on his own book, and seeking revenge for
some relatives of his, who had been killed by the Indians.  In the midst
of the battle this Wheatley ran at a slow trot past R------ (my
informant), trailing his rifle, and making towards the point where
Tecumseh's voice was heard.  The fight drifted around, and R------ along
with it; and by and by he reached a spot where Wheatley lay dead, with
his head on Tecumseh's breast.  Tecumseh had been shot with a rifle, but,
before expiring, appeared to have shot Wheatley with a pistol, which he
still held in his hand.  R------ affirms that Tecumseh was flayed by the
Kentucky men on the spot, and his skin converted into razor-straps.  I
have left out the most striking point of the narrative, after all, as
R------ told it, viz. that soon after Wheatley passed him, he suddenly
ceased to hear Tecumseh's voice ringing through the forest, as he gave
his orders.  He was at the battle of New Orleans, and gave me the story
of it from beginning to end; but I remember only a few particulars in
which he was personally concerned.  He confesses that his hair bristled
upright--every hair in his head--when he heard the shouts of the British
soldiers before advancing to the attack.  His uncomfortable sensations
lasted till he began to fire, after which he felt no more of them.  It
was in the dusk of the morning, or a little before sunrise, when the
assault was made; and the fight lasted about two hours and a half, during
which R------ fired twenty-four times; and said he, "I saw my object
distinctly each time, and I was a good rifle-shot."  He was raising his
rifle to fire the twenty-fifth time, when an American officer, General
Carroll, pressed it down, and bade him fire no more.  "Enough is enough,"
quoth the General.  so should I complain of any inward acquisition. It were
almost better never, than so late, to become an honest man, and well
fit to live, when one has no longer to live. I, who am about to make
my exit out of the world, would easily resign to any newcomer, who should
desire it, all the prudence I am now acquiring in the world's commerce;
after meat, mustard.
I have no need of goods of which I can make no use; of what use is
knowledge to him who has lost his head?

'Tis an injury and unkindness in fortune to tender us presents that
will only inspire us with a just despite that we had them not in their
due season. Guide me no more; I can no longer go. Of so many parts as
make up a sufficiency, patience is the most sufficient. Give the
capacity of an excellent treble to the chorister who has rotten lungs,
and eloquence to a hermit exiled into the deserts of Arabia. There needs
no art to help a fall; the end finds itself of itself at the conclusion
of every affair. My world is at an end, my form expired; I am totally
of the past, and am bound to authorise it, and to conform my outgoing to
it. I will here declare, by way of example, that the Pope's late ten days'
diminution
[Gregory XIII., in 1582, reformed the Calendar, and, in consequence, in
France they all at once passed from the 9th to the 20th December.]
has taken me so aback that I cannot well reconcile myself to it; I belong
to the years wherein we kept another kind of account. So ancient and
so long a custom challenges my adherence to it, so that I am constrained
to be somewhat heretical on that point incapable of any, though
corrective, innovation. My imagination, in spite of my teeth,
always pushes me ten days forward or backward, and is ever murmuring
in my ears: "This rule concerns those who are to begin to be."

If health itself, sweet as it is, returns to me by fits, 'tis rather to
give me cause of regret than possession of it; I have no place left
to keep it in. Time leaves me; without which nothing can be possessed.
Oh, what little account should I make of those great elective dignities
that I see in such esteem in the world, that are never conferred but upon
men who are taking leave of it; wherein they do not so much regard
how well the man will discharge his trust, as how short his
administration will be: from the very entry they look at the exit. In
short, I am about finishing this man, and not rebuilding another. By
long use, this form is in me turned into substance, and fortune into
nature.

I say, therefore, that every one of us feeble creatures is excusable in
thinking that to be his own which is comprised under this measure;
but withal, beyond these limits, 'tis nothing but confusion; 'tis the
largest extent we can grant to our own claims. The more we amplify our
need and our possession, so much the more do we expose ourselves to the
blows of Fortune and adversities. The career of our desires ought to be
circumscribed and restrained to a short limit of the nearest and most
contiguous commodities; and their course ought, moreover, to be
performed not in a right line, that ends elsewhere, but in a circle,
of which the two points, by a short wheel, meet and terminate in
ourselves.

Actions that are carried on without this reflection--a near and
essential reflection, I mean--such as those of ambitious
and avaricious men, and so many more as run point-blank, and to whose
career always carries them before themselves, such actions, I say; are
erroneous and sickly.

Most of our business is farce:

"Mundus universus exercet histrioniam." --[Petronius Arbiter, iii. 8.]
We must play our part properly, but withal as a part of a borrowed
personage; we must not make real essence of a mask and outward appearance;
nor of a strange person, our own; we cannot distinguish the skin from
the shirt: 'tis enough to meal the face, without mealing the breast. I
see some who transform and transubstantiate themselves into as many
new shapes and new beings as they undertake new employments; and who
strut and fume even to the heart and liver, and carry their state
along with them even to the close-stool: I cannot make them distinguish
the salutations made to themselves from those made to their
commission, their train, or their mule:

"Tantum se fortunx permittunt, etiam ut naturam dediscant."
["They so much give themselves up to fortune, as even to unlearn nature."--Quintus
Curtius, iii. 2.]
They swell and puff up their souls, and their natural way of speaking,
according to the height of their magisterial place. The Mayor of Bordeaux
and Montaigne have ever been two by very manifest separation.
Because one is an advocate or a financier, he must not ignore the knavery
there is in such callings; an honest man is not accountable for the
vice or absurdity of his employment, and ought not on that account refuse
to take the calling upon him: 'tis the usage of his country, and
there is money to be got by it; a man must live by the world; and
make his best of it, such as it is.

But the judgment of an emperor ought to be above his empire, and see and
consider it as a foreign accident; and he ought to know how to enjoy
himself apart from it, and to communicate himself as James and
Peter, to himself, at all events.

I cannot engage myself so deep and so entire; when my will gives me to
anything, 'tis not with so violent an obligation that my judgment is
infected with it. In the present broils of this kingdom, my own interest
has not made me blind to the laudable qualities of our adversaries,
nor to those that are reproachable in those men of our party. Others
adore all of their own side; for my part, I do not so much as excuse most
things in those of mine: a good work has never the worst grace with me
for being made against me. The knot of the controversy excepted, I have
always kept myself in equanimity and pure indifference:

"Neque extra necessitates belli praecipuum odium gero;"
["Nor bear particular hatred beyond the necessities of war."]
for which I am pleased with myself; and the more because I see
others commonly fail in the contrary direction. Such as extend their
anger and hatred beyond the dispute in question, as most men do, show
that they spring from some other occasion and private cause; like one who,
being cured of an ulcer, has yet a fever remaining, by which it
appears that the ulcer had another more concealed beginning. The reason
is that they are not concerned in the common cause, because it
is wounding to the state and general interest; but are only nettled by
reason of their particular concern. This is why they are so especially
animated, and to a degree so far beyond justice and public reason:

"Non tam omnia universi, quam ea, quae ad quemque pertinent, singuli
carpebant."
["Every one was not so much angry against things in general, as against
those that particularly concern himself." --Livy, xxxiv. 36.]
I would have the advantage on our side; but if it be not, I shall not
run mad. I am heartily for the right party; but I do not want to be
taken notice of as an especial enemy to others, and beyond the
general quarrel.

I marvellously challenge this vicious form of opinion: "He is of the
League because he admires the graciousness of Monsieur de Guise; he
is astonished at the King of Navarre's energy, therefore he is a
Huguenot; he finds this to say of the manners of the king, he is therefore
seditious in his heart." And I did not grant to the magistrate himself
that he did well in condemning a book because it had placed a heretic
--[Theodore de Beza.]--amongst the best poets of the time. Shall we not
dare to say of a thief that he has a handsome leg?

If a woman be a strumpet, must it needs follow that she has a foul smell?
Did they in the wisest ages revoke the proud title of Capitolinus they
had before conferred on Marcus Manlius as conservator of religion
and the public liberty, and stifle the memory of his liberality, his
feats of arms, and military recompenses granted to his valour, because
he, afterwards aspired to the sovereignty, to the prejudice of the laws
of his country?
If we take a hatred against an advocate, he will not be allowed the
next day to be eloquent. I have elsewhere spoken of the zeal that pushed
on worthy men to the like faults. For my part, I can say, "Such an
one does this thing ill, and another thing virtuously and well." So in the
prognostication or sinister events of affairs they would have every one
in his party blind or a blockhead, and that our persuasion and
judgment should subserve not truth, but to the project of our
desires.

I should rather incline towards the other extreme; so much I fear being
suborned by my desire; to which may be added that I am a little
tenderly distrustful of things that I wish.

I have in my time seen wonders in the indiscreet and prodigious facility
of people in suffering their hopes and belief to be led and governed,
which way best pleased and served their leaders, despite a hundred mistakes
one upon another, despite mere dreams and phantasms. I no more wonder
at those who have been blinded and seduced by the fooleries of
Apollonius and Mahomet. Their sense and understanding are absolutely
taken away by their passion; their discretion has no more any other choice
than that which smiles upon them and encourages their cause.
I had principally observed this in the beginning of our intestine
distempers; that other, which has sprung up since, in imitating,
has surpassed it; by which I am satisfied that it is a quality
inseparable from popular errors; after the first, that rolls,
opinions drive on one another like waves with the wind: a man is
not a member of the body, if it be in his power to forsake it, and
if he do not roll the common way.

But, doubtless, they wrong the just side when they go about to assist
it with fraud; I have ever been against that practice: 'tis only
fit to work upon weak heads; for the sound, there are surer and more
honest ways to keep up their courage and to excuse adverse
accidents.

Heaven never saw a greater animosity than that betwixt Caesar and
Pompey, nor ever shall; and yet I observe, methinks, in those
brave souls, a great moderation towards one another: it was a
jealousy of honour and command, which did not transport them to a
furious and indiscreet hatred, and was without malignity and detraction:
in their hottest exploits upon one another, I discover some remains of
respect and good-will: and am therefore of opinion that, had, it
been possible, each of them would rather have done his business
without the ruin of the other than with it.

Take notice how much otherwise matters went with Marius and Sylla.

We must not precipitate ourselves so headlong after our affections and
interests. As, when I was young, I opposed myself to the progress of
love which I perceived to advance too fast upon me, and had a care lest
it should at last become so pleasing as to force, captivate, and wholly
reduce me to its mercy: so I do the same upon all other occasions where
my will is running on with too warm an appetite. I lean opposite to the
side it inclines to; as I find it going to plunge and make itself
drunk with its own wine; I evade nourishing its pleasure so far, that
I cannot recover it without infinite loss. Souls that, through their
own stupidity, only discern things by halves, have this happiness, that
they smart less with hurtful things: 'tis a spiritual leprosy that
has some show of health, and such a health as philosophy does not
altogether contemn; but yet we have no reason to call it wisdom,
as we often do.

And after this manner some one anciently mocked Diogeries, who, in the
depth of winter and quite naked, went embracing an image of snow
for a trial of his endurance: the other seeing him in this position, "Art
thou now very cold?" said he. "Not at all," replied Diogenes. "Why,
then," pursued the other, "what difficult and exemplary thing dost thou
think thou doest in embracing that snow?" To take a true measure of
constancy, one must necessarily know what the suffering is.

But souls that are to meet with adverse events and the injuries of fortune,
in their depth and sharpness, that are to weigh and taste them according
to their natural weight and bitterness, let such show their skill in
avoiding the causes and diverting the blow. What did King Cotys do?
He paid liberally for the rich and beautiful vessel that had been presented
to him, but, seeing it was exceedingly brittle, he immediately broke
it betimes, to prevent so easy a matter of displeasure against his servants.
In like manner, I have willingly avoided all confusion in my affairs,
and never coveted to have my estate contiguous to those of my
relations, and such with whom I coveted a strict friendship; for
thence matter of unkindness and falling out often proceeds.

I formerly loved hazardous games of cards and dice; but have long since
left them off, only for this reason that, with whatever good air I carried
my losses, I could not help feeling vexed within. A man of honour, who
ought to be touchily sensible of the lie or of an insult, and who is
not to take a scurvy excuse for satisfaction, should avoid occasions
of dispute.
I shun melancholy, crabbed men, as I would the plague; and in
matters I cannot talk of without emotion and concern I never meddle,
if not compelled by my duty:

"Melius non incipient, quam desinent."
["They had better never to begin than to have to desist." --Seneca, Ep.,
72.]
The surest way, therefore, is to prepare one's self beforehand for
occasions.

I know very well that some wise men have taken another way, and have not
feared to grapple and engage to the utmost upon several subjects these are
confident of their own strength, under which they protect themselves in
all ill successes, making their patience wrestle and contend with
disaster:

"Velut rupes, vastum quae prodit in aequor, Obvia ventorum furiis,
expostaque ponto, Vim cunctam atque minas perfert coelique marisque;
Ipsa immota manens."
["As a rock, which projects into the vast ocean, exposed to the
furious winds and the raging sea, defies the force and menaces of sky and
sea, itself unshaken."--Virgil, AEneid, x. 693.]
Let us not attempt these examples; we shall never come up to them. They
set themselves resolutely, and without agitation, to behold the ruin
of their country, which possessed and commanded all their will: this is
too much, and too hard a task for our commoner souls. Cato gave up the
noblest life that ever was upon this account; we meaner spirits
must fly from the storm as far as we can; we must provide for sentiment,
and not for patience, and evade the blows we cannot meet. Zeno,
seeing Chremonides, a young man whom he loved, draw near to sit down
by him, suddenly started up; and Cleanthes demanding of him the
reason why he did so, "I hear," said he, "that physicians especially
order repose, and forbid emotion in all tumours."

Socrates does not say: "Do not surrender to the charms of beauty; stand
your ground, and do your utmost to oppose it." "Fly it," says he; "shun
the fight and encounter of it, as of a powerful poison that darts and
wounds at a distance." And his good disciple, feigning or reciting, but,
in my opinion, rather reciting than feigning, the rare perfections
of the great Cyrus, makes him distrustful of his own strength to resist
the charms of the divine beauty of that illustrous Panthea, his captive,
and committing the visiting and keeping her to another, who could
not have so much liberty as himself. And the Holy Ghost in like
manner:

"Ne nos inducas in tentationem."
["Lead us not into temptation."--St. Matthew, vi. 13.]
We do not pray that our reason may not be combated and overcome by
concupiscence, but that it should not be so much as tried by it;
that we should not be brought into a state wherein we are so much as
to suffer the approaches, solicitations, and temptations of sin: and
we beg of Almighty God to keep our consciences quiet, fully and perfectly
delivered from all commerce of evil.

Such as say that they have reason for their revenging passion, or any
other sort of troublesome agitation of mind, often say true, as things
now are, but not as they were: they speak to us when the causes of their
error are by themselves nourished and advanced; but look backward--recall
these causes to their beginning--and there you will put them to a nonplus.
Will they have their faults less, for being of longer continuance;
and that of an unjust beginning, the sequel can be just?
Whoever shall desire the good of his country, as I do, without fretting
or pining himself, will be troubled, but will not swoon to see it
threatening either its own ruin, or a no less ruinous continuance;
poor vessel, that the waves, the winds, and the pilot toss and steer
to so contrary designs!

"In tam diversa magister Ventus et unda trahunt."
He who does not gape after the favour of princes, as after a thing he
cannot live without, does not much concern himself at the coldness of
their reception and countenance, nor at the inconstancy of their wills.

He who does not brood over his children or his honours with a slavish
propension, ceases not to live commodiously enough after their loss.
He who does good principally for his own satisfaction will not be much
troubled to see men judge of his actions contrary to his merit.

A quarter of an ounce of patience will provide sufficiently against
such inconveniences.

I find ease in this receipt, redeeming myself in the beginning as good
cheap as I can; and find that by this means I have escaped much trouble
and many difficulties. With very little ado I stop the first sally of
my emotions, and leave the subject that begins to be troublesome before
it transports me. He who stops not the start will never be able
to stop the course; he who cannot keep them out will never, get them
out when they are once got in; and he who cannot arrive at the beginning
will never arrive at the end of all. Nor will he bear the fall who
cannot sustain the shock:
"Etenim ipsae se impellunt, ubi semel a ratione discessum est;
ipsaque sibi imbecillitas indulget, in altumque provehitur imprudens,
nec reperit locum consistendi."
["For they throw themselves headlong when once they lose their
reason; and infirmity so far indulges itself, and from want of
prudence is carried out into deep water, nor finds a place to shelter
it."Skipton is an ancient town, and has an ancient though well-repaired
aspect, the houses being built of gray stone, but in no picturesque
shapes; the streets well paved; the site irregular and rising gradually
towards Skipton Castle, which overlooks the town, as an old lordly castle
ought to overlook the feudal village which it protects.  The castle was
built shortly after the Conquest by Robert de Romeli, and was afterwards
the property and residence of the famous Cliffords.  We met an honest
man, as we approached the gateway, who kindly encouraged us to apply for
admittance, notwithstanding it was Good Friday; telling us how to find
the housekeeper, who would probably show us over the castle.  So we
passed through the gate, between two embattled towers; and in the castle
court we met a flock of young damsels, who had been rambling about the
precincts.  They likewise directed us in our search for the housekeeper,
and S-----, being bolder than I in such assaults on feudal castles, led
the way down a dark archway, and up an exterior stairway, and, knocking
at a door, immediately brought the housekeeper to a parley.

She proved to be a nowise awful personage, but a homely, neat, kindly,
intelligent, and middle-aged body.  She seemed to be all alone in this
great old castle, and at once consented to show us about,--being, no
doubt, glad to see any Christian visitors.  The castle is now the
property of Sir R. Tufton; but the present family do not make it their
permanent residence, and have only occasionally visited it.  Indeed, it
could not well be made an eligible or comfortable residence, according to
modern ideas; the rooms occupying the several stories of large round
towers, and looking gloomy and sombre, if not dreary,--not the less so
for what has been done to modernize them; for instance, modern
paper-hangings, and, in some of the rooms, marble fireplaces.  They need
a great deal more light and higher ceilings; and I rather imagine that
the warm, rich effect of glowing tapestry is essential to keep one's
spirit cheerful in these ancient rooms.  Modern paper-hangings are too
superficial and wishy-washy for the purpose.  Tapestry, it is true, there
is now, completely covering the walls of several of the rooms, but all
faded into ghastliness; nor could some of it have been otherwise than
ghastly, even in its newness, for it represented persons suffering
various kinds of torture, with crowds of monks and nuns looking on.  In
another room there was the story of Solomon and the Queen of Sheba, and
other subjects not to be readily distinguished in the twilight that was
gathering in these antique chambers.  We saw, too, some very old
portraits of the Cliffords and the Thanets, in black frames, and the
pictures themselves sadly faded and neglected.  The famous Countess Anne
of Pembroke, Dorset, and Montgomery was represented on one of the leaves
of a pair of folding doors, and one of her husbands, I believe, on the
other leaf.  There was the picture of a little idiot lordling, who had
choked himself to death; and a portrait of Oliver Cromwell, who battered
this old castle, together with almost every other English or Welsh castle
that I ever saw or heard of.  The housekeeper pointed out the grove of
trees where his cannon were planted during the siege.  There was but
little furniture in the rooms; amongst other articles, an antique chair,
in which Mary, Queen of Scots, is said to have rested.

The housekeeper next took us into the part of the castle which has never
been modernized since it was repaired, after the siege of Cromwell.  This
is a dismal series of cellars above ground, with immensely thick walls,
letting in but scanty light, and dim staircases of stone; and a large
hall, with a vast fireplace, where every particle of heat must needs have
gone up chimney,--a chill and heart-breaking place enough.  Quite in the
midst of this part of the castle is the court-yard,--a space of some
thirty or forty feet in length and breadth, open to the sky, but shut
completely in on every side by the buildings of the castle, and paved
over with flat stones.  Out of this pavement, however, grows a yew-tree,
ascending to the tops of the towers, and completely filling, with its
branches and foliage, the whole open space between them.  Some small
birds--quite a flock of them--were twittering and fluttering among the
upper branches.  We went upward, through two or three stories of dismal
rooms,--among others, through the ancient guard-room,--till we came out
on the roof of one of the towers, and had a very fine view of an
amphitheatre of ridgy hills which shut in and seclude the castle and the
town.  The upper foliage was within our reach, close to the parapet of
the tower; so we gathered a few twigs as memorials.  The housekeeper told
us that the yew-tree is supposed to be eight hundred years old, and,
comparing it with other yews that I have seen, I should judge that it
must measure its antiquity by centuries, at all events.  It still seems
to be in its prime.

Along the base of the castle, on the opposite side to the entrance, flows
a stream, sending up a pleasant murmur from among the trees.  The
housekeeper said it was not a stream, but only a "wash," whatever that
may be; and I conjecture that it creates the motive-power of some
factory-looking edifices, which we saw on our first arrival at Skipton.

We now took our leave of the housekeeper, and came homeward to our inn,
where I have written the foregoing pages by a bright fire; but I think I
write better descriptions after letting the subject lie in my mind a day
or two.  It is too new to be properly dealt with immediately after coming
from the scene.

The castle is not at all crumbly, but in excellent repair, though so
venerable.  There are rooks cawing about the shapeless patches of their
nests, in the tops of the trees.  In the castle wall, as well as in the
round towers of the gateway, there seem to be little tenements, perhaps
inhabited by the servants and dependants of the family.  They looked in
very good order, with tokens of present domesticity about them.  The
whole of this old castle, indeed, was as neat as a new, small dwelling,
in spite of an inevitable musty odor of antiquity.


April 11th.--This morning we took a carriage and two horses, and set out
for


BOLTON PRIORY,


a distance of about six miles.  The morning was cool, with breezy clouds,
intermingled with sunshine, and, on the whole, as good as are nine tenths
of English mornings.  J----- sat beside the driver, and S----- and I in
the carriage, all closed but one window.  As we drove through Skipton,
the little town had a livelier aspect than yesterday when it wore its
Good Friday's solemnity; but now its market-place was thronged,
principally with butchers, displaying their meat under little movable
pent-houses, and their customers.  The English people really like to
think and talk of butcher's meat, and gaze at it with delight; and they
crowd through the avenues of the market-houses and stand enraptured round
a dead ox.

We passed along by the castle wall, and noticed the escutcheon of the
Cliffords or the Thanets carved in stone over the portal, with the motto
Desormais, the application of which I do not well see; these ancestral
devices usually referring more to the past, than to the future.  There is
a large old church, just at the extremity of the village, and just below
the castle, on the slope of the hill.  The gray wall of the castle
extends along the road a considerable distance, in good repair, with here
and there a buttress, and the semicircular bulge of a tower.

The scenery along the road was not particularly striking,--long slopes,
descending from ridges; a generally hard outline of country, with not
many trees, and those, as yet, destitute of foliage.  It needs to be
softened with a good deal of wood.  There were stone farm-houses, looking
ancient, and able to last till twice as old.  Instead of the hedges, so
universal in other parts of England, there were stone fences of good
height and painful construction, made of small stones, which I suppose
have been picked up out of the fields through hundreds of years.  They
reminded me of old Massachusetts, though very unlike our rude stone
walls, which, nevertheless, last longer than anything else we build.
Another New England feature was the little brooks, which here and there
flowed across our road, rippling over the pebbles, clear and bright.  I
fancied, too, an intelligence and keenness in some of the Yorkshire
physiognomies, akin to those characteristics in my countrymen's faces.

We passed an ancient, many-gabled inn, large, low, and comfortable,
bearing the name of the Devonshire House, as does our own hotel, for the
Duke of Devonshire is a great proprietor in these parts.  A mile or so
beyond, we came to a gateway, broken through what, I believe, was an old
wall of the Priory grounds; and here we alighted, leaving our driver to
take the carriage to the inn.  Passing through this hole in the wall, we
saw the ruins of the Priory at the bottom of the beautiful valley about a
quarter of a mile off; and, well as the monks knew how to choose the
sites of their establishments, I think they never chose a better site
than this,--in the green lap of protecting hills, beside a stream, and
with peace and fertility looking down upon it on every side.  The view
down the valley is very fine, and, for my part, I am glad that some
peaceable and comfort-loving people possessed these precincts for many
hundred years, when nobody else knew how to appreciate peace and comfort.

The old gateway tower, beneath which was formerly the arched entrance
into the domain of the Priory, is now the central part of a hunting-seat
of the Duke of Devonshire, and the edifice is completed by a wing of
recent date on each side.  A few hundred yards from this hunting-box are
the remains of the Priory, consisting of the nave of the old church,
which is still in good repair, and used as the worshipping-place of the
neighborhood (being a perpetual curacy of the parish of Skipton), and the
old ruined choir, roofless, with broken arches, ivy-grown, but not so
rich and rare a ruin as either Melrose, Netley, or Furness.  Its
situation makes its charm.  It stands near the river Wharfe,--a broad and
rapid stream, which hurries along between high banks, with a sound which
the monks must have found congenial to their slumberous moods.  It is a
good river for trout, too; and I saw two or three anglers, with their
rods and baskets, passing through the ruins towards its shore.  It was in
this river Wharfe that the boy of Egremont was drowned, at the Strid, a
mile or two higher up the stream.

In the first place, we rambled round the exterior of the ruins; but, as I
have said, they are rather bare and meagre in comparison with other
abbeys, and I am not sure that the especial care and neatness with which
they are preserved does not lessen their effect on the beholder.
Neglect, wildness, crumbling walls, the climbing and conquering ivy;
masses of stone lying where they fell; trees of old date, growing where
the pillars of the aisles used to stand,--these are the best points of
ruined abbeys.  But, everything here is kept with such trimness that it
gives you the idea of a petrifaction.  Decay is no longer triumphant; the
Duke of Devonshire has got the better of it.  The grounds around the
church and the ruins are still used for burial, and there are several
flat tombstones and altar tombs, with crosiers engraved or carved upon
them, which at first I took to be the memorials of bishops or abbots, and
wondered that the sculpture should still be so distinct.  On one,
however, I read the date 1850 and the name of a layman; for the
tombstones were all modern, the humid English atmosphere giving them
their mossy look of antiquity, and the crosier had been assumed only as a
pretty device.

Close beside the ruins there is a large, old stone farm-house, which must
have been built on the site of a part of the Priory,--the cells,
dormitories, refectory, and other portions pertaining to the monks' daily
life, I suppose, and built, no doubt, with the sacred stones.  Such was
the young Polish noblewoman's eventual devotion to the father of her
boy, that throughout his subsequent life in Europe she ran every risk to
be near her idol, and actually followed him to Elba.
Their son, the Count Walewski, was a devoted Frenchman, and a man of
quality, filling, with dignity, important offices in the service of his
country.

CHAPTER II
CHECK TO THE GRAND ARMY: EYLAU[2]
[Footnote 2: References more specifically valuable for this and the
next chapter are Häusser, Czartoryski, Marbot, Lejeune, Oudinot,
Lettow-Vorbeck, Sir R. Wilson, with the Castlereagh Letters and
Napoleon's Correspondence.]
Napoleon's Preparations -- His Clever Strategy -- The Plan Discovered
by the Russians -- The Armies at Eylau -- Failure of Napoleon's Tactics
-- The Battle Indecisive -- The French Army Demoralized -- Napoleon's
Anxiety -- His Army in Winter Quarters -- The Emperor's Activity --
Rearrangement of his Forces -- An Envoy from the Shah of Persia --
Reinforcements from France and Germany -- The Neutrality of Austria.

[Sidenote: 1807]
It was not a very rude shock to his sensuous ease, however, when on
January twenty-seventh, 1807, Napoleon received the news of Bennigsen's
march. In a general way he had been aware for some days that the enemy
was moving, but he believed they had no other intention than to
derive what immediate advantage could be had from Ney's rashness.
In the absence of fuller information he had not changed his opinion,
but the army was nevertheless put in readiness, the trains were
equipped, and orders were issued for abandoning temporarily the
siege of Dantzic and for the complete occupation of Thorn.Inquiring
further, I found that it was the Clapham family, and another that was
called Morley, that were so buried; and then it occurred to me that this
was the vault Wordsworth refers to in one of his poems,--the burial-place
of the Claphams and Mauleverers, whose skeletons, for aught I know, were
even then standing upright under our feet.  It is but a narrow place,
perhaps a square of ten feet.  We saw little or nothing else that was
memorable, unless it were the signature of Queen Adelaide in a visitors'
book.

On our way back to Skipton it rained and hailed, but the sun again shone
out before we arrived.  We took the train for Leeds at half past ten, and
arrived there in the afternoon, passing the ruined Abbey of Kirkstall on
our way.  The ruins looked more interesting than those of Bolton, though
not so delightfully situated, and now in the close vicinity of
manufactories, and only two or three miles from Leeds.  We took a dish of
soup, and spent a miserable hour in and about the railway station of
Leeds; whence we departed at four, and reached


YORK


in an hour or two.  We put up at the Black Swan, and before tea went out,
on the cool bright edge of evening, to get a glimpse of the cathedral,
which impressed me more grandly than when I first saw it, nearly a year
ago.  Indeed, almost any object gains upon me at the second sight.  I
have spent the evening in writing up my journal,--an act of real virtue.

After walking round the cathedral, we went up a narrow and crooked
street, very old and shabby, but with an antique house projecting as much
as a yard over the pavement on one side,--a timber house it seemed to be,
plastered over and stained yellow or buff.  There was no external door,
affording entrance into this edifice; but about midway of its front we
came to a low, Gothic, stone archway, passing right through the house;
and as it looked much time-worn, and was sculptured with untraceable
devices, we went through.  There was an exceedingly antique, battered,
and shattered pair of oaken leaves, which used doubtless to shut up the
passage in former times, and keep it secure; but for the last centuries,
probably, there has been free ingress and egress.  Indeed, the portal
arch may never have been closed since the Reformation.  Within, we found
a quadrangle, of which the house upon the street formed one side, the
others being composed of ancient houses, with gables in a row, all
looking upon the paved quadrangle, through quaint windows of various
fashion.  An elderly, neat, pleasant-looking woman now came in beneath
the arch, and as she had a look of being acquainted here, we asked her
what the place was; and she told us, that in the old Popish times the
prebends of the cathedral used to live here, to keep them from doing
mischief in the town.  The establishment, she said, was now called "The
College," and was let in rooms and small tenements to poor people.  
--Characteristic Anecdotes.--The Presentation of the Embassador.--The
Tzar Visits England.--Life at Deptford.--Illustrious Foreigners
Engaged in His Service.--Peter Visits Vienna.--The Game of Landlord.--Insurrection
in Moscow.--Return of the Tzar, and Measures of Severity.--War with
Sweden.--Disastrous Defeat of Narva.--Efforts to Secure the Shores of the
Baltic.

--Designs Upon the Black Sea.

CHAPTER XX.

CONQUESTS AND ACHIEVEMENTS OF PETER THE GREAT.

From 1702 TO 1718.

Peter takes Lake Lagoda and the Neva.

--Foundation of St.
Petersburg.--Conquest of Livonia.--Marienburg Taken by Storm.--The
Empress Catharine.--Extraordinary Efforts in Building St.
Petersburg.--Threat of Charles XII.--Deposition of Augustus.--Enthronement
of Stanislaus.--Battle of Pultowa.--Flight of Charles XII. to
Turkey.--Increased Renown of Russia.--Disastrous Conflict with the
Turks.--Marriage of Alexis.--His Character.--Death of his Wife.--The
Empress Acknowledged.--Conquest of Finland.--Tour of the Tzar to
Southern Europe.

CHAPTER XXI.

THE TRIAL AND CONDEMNATION OF ALEXIS, AND DEATH OF THE TZAR.

From 1718 to 1725.

The Tzar's Second Visit to Holland.--Reception in France.--Description
of Catharine.--Domestic Grief.--Conduct of Alexis.--Letters from His
Father.--Flight To Germany.--Thence to Naples.--Envoys Sent to Bring
Him Back.--Alexis Excluded from the Succession.--His Trial for
Treason.--Condemnation and Unexpected Death.--New Efforts of the
Tzar for the Welfare of Russia.

--Sickness of Peter.--His Death.--Succession of the Empress Catharine.--Epitaph
to the Emperor.

CHAPTER XXII.

THE REIGN OF CATHARINE I., ANNE, THE INFANT IVAN AND ELIZABETH.

From 1725 TO 1769.

Energetic Reign of Catharine.--Her Sudden Death.--Brief Reign of Peter
II.--Difficulties of Hereditary Succession.--A Republic
Contemplated.--Anne, Daughter of Ivan.--The Infant Ivan Proclaimed
King.--His Terrible Doom.--Elizabeth, Daughter of Peter the Great,
Enthroned.--Character of Elizabeth.--Alliance with Maria Theresa.--Wars
with Prussia.--Great Reverses of Frederic of Prussia.--Desperate
Condition of Frederic.--Death of Elizabeth.--Succession of Peter
III.

CHAPTER XXIII.

PETER III. AND HIS BRIDE.

From 1728 TO 1762.

Lineage of Peter III.--Chosen by Elizabeth as her Successor.--The
Bride Chosen for Peter.--Her Lineage.--The Courtship.--The
Marriage.--Autobiography of Catharine.--Anecdotes of Peter.--His Neglect
of Catharine and his Debaucheries.--Amusements of the Russian Court.--Military
Execution of a Rat.--Accession of Peter III. to the Throne.

--Supremacy of Catharine.--Her Repudiation Threatened.--The
Conspiracy.--Its Successful Accomplishment.

CHAPTER XXIV.

THE CONSPIRACY; AND ACCESSION OF CATHARINE II.

From 1762 to 1765.

Peter III. at Oranienbaum.--Catharine at Peterhof.--The Successful
Accomplishment of the Conspiracy.--Terror of Peter.--His Vacillating and
Feeble Character.--Flight to Cronstadt.--Repulse.--Heroic Counsel of
Munich.--Peter's Return to Oranienbaum.--His Suppliant Letters to
Catharine.--His Arrest.--Imprisonment.--Assasination.--Proclamation
of the Empress.--Her Complicity in the Crime.--Energy of Catharine's
Administration.

--Her Expansive Views and Sagacious Policy.--Contemplated Marriage with
Count Orlof.

CHAPTER XXV.

REIGN OF CATHARINE II.

From 1765 to 1774.

Energy of Catharine's Administration.--Titles of Honor Decreed to Her.--Code
of Laws Instituted.--The Assassination of the Empress Attempted.--Encouragement
of Learned Men.--Catharine Inoculated for the Small-Pox.

--New War with Turkey.--Capture of Crimea.--Sailing of the Russian
Fleet.--Great Naval Victory.--Visit of the Prussian Prince Henry.--The
Sleigh Ride.--Plans for the Partition of Poland.--The Hermitage.--Marriage
of the Grand Duke Paul.--Correspondence with Voltaire and
Diderot.

CHAPTER XXVI.

REIGN OF CATHARINE II.

From 1774 to 1781.

Peace with Turkey.--Court of Catharine II.--Her Personal Appearance and
Habits.--Conspiracy and Rebellion.--Defeat of the Rebels.--Magnanimity
of Catharine II.--Ambition of the Empress.--Court Favorite.--Division of
Russia into Provinces.--internal Improvements.--New Partition of
Poland.--Death of the Wife of Paul.--Second Marriage of the Grand
Duke.--Splendor of the Russian Court.--Russia and Austria Secretly
Combine to Drive the Turks out of Europe.--The Emperor Joseph II.

CHAPTER XXVII.

TERMINATION OF THE REIGN OF CATHARINE II.

From 1781 to 1786.

Statue of Peter the Great.--Alliance Between Austria and Russia.--Independence
of the Crimea--The Khan of the Crimea.--Vast Preparations for War.--National
Jealousies.--Tolerant Spirit of Catharine.--Magnificent Excursion to
the Crimea.--Commencement of Hostilities.--Anecdote of Paul.--Peace.--New
Partition of Poland.--Treaty with Austria and France.--Hostility to Liberty
in France.

--Death of Catharine.

--Her Character.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

THE REIGN OF PAUL I.

From 1796 to 1801.

Accession of Paul I. to the Throne.--Influence of Hereditary Transmission
of Power.--Extravagance of Paul.--His Despotism.--The Horse Court
Martialed.--Progress of the French Revolution.--Fears and Violence
of Paul.--Hostility to Foreigners.--Russia Joins the Coalition Against
France.--March of Suwarrow.--Character of Suwarrow.--Battle on the
Adda.--Battle of Novi.--Suwarrow marches on the Rhine.--His Defeat and
Death.--Paul Abandons the Coalition and Joins France.--Conspiracies at
St. Petersburg.

CHAPTER XXIX.

ASSASSINATION OF PAUL AND ACCESSION OF ALEXANDER.

From 1801 to 1807.

Assassination of Paul I.--Implication of Alexander in the
Conspiracy.--Anecdotes.--Accession of Alexander.--The French
Revolution.--Alexander Joins Allies Against France.--State of
Russia.--Useful Measures of Alexander.--Peace of Amiens.--Renewal
of Hostilities.--Battle of Austerlitz.--Magnanimity of Napoleon.--New
Coalition.--Ambition of Alexander.--Battles of Jena and Eylau.--Defeat
of the Russians.

CHAPTER XXX.

REIGN OF ALEXANDER I.

From 1807 to 1825.

The Field of Eylau.--Letter to the King of Prussia.--Renewal of the
War--Discomfiture of the Allies.--Battle of Friedland.--The Raft at
Tilsit.--Intimacy of the Emperors.--Alexander's Designs upon
Turkey.--Alliance Between France and Russia.--Object of the Continental
System.--Perplexities of Alexander.--Driven by the Nobles to War.

--Results of the Russian Campaign.--Napoleon Vanquished.--Last Days
of Alexander.--His Sickness and Death.

CHAPTER XXXI.

NICHOLAS.

From 1825 to 1855.

Abdication of Constantine.--Accession of Nicholas.--Insurrection
Quelled.

--Nicholas and the Conspirator.--Anecdote.--The Palace of Peterhof.--The
Winter Palace.--Presentation at Court.--Magnitude of Russia.--Description
of the Hellespont and Dardanelles.--The Turkish Invasion.--Aims
of Russia.--Views of England and France.--Wars of Nicholas.--The Polish
Insurrection.--War of the Crimea.--Jealousies of the Leading
Nations.--Encroachments.--Death of Nicholas.--Accession of Alexander
II.

CHAPTER I.

PARENTAGE AND BIRTH OF RUSSIA.

From 600 B.C. to A.D. 910.

Primeval Russia.--Explorations of the Greeks.--Scythian Invasion.--Character
of the Scythians.--Sarmatia.--Assaults upon the Roman Empire.--Irruption
of the Alains.--Conquests of Trajan.--The Gothic Invasion.--The Huns.--Their
Character and Aspect.--The Devastations of Attila.--The Avars.--Results
of Comminglings of these Tribes.--Normans.--Birth of the Russian
Empire.--The Three Sovereigns Rurik, Sineous and Truvor.--Adventures
of Ascolod and Dir.--Introduction of Christianity.--Usurpation of
Oleg.--His Conquests.--Expedition Against Constantinople.

Those vast realms of northern Europe, now called Russia, have been
inhabited for a period beyond the records of history, by wandering tribes
of savages. These barbaric hordes have left no monuments of their existence.
The annals of Greece and of Rome simply inform us that they were there.
Generations came and departed, passing through life's tragic drama,
and no one has told their story.

About five hundred years before the birth of our Saviour, the Greeks,
sailing up the Bosphorus and braving the storms of the Black Sea,
began to plant their colonies along its shores.

Instructed by these colonists, Herodotus, who wrote about four hundred
and forty years before Christ, gives some information respecting the
then condition of interior Russia. The first great irruption into
the wastes of Russia, of which history gives us any record, was about
one hundred years before our Saviour. An immense multitude of conglomerated
tribes, taking the general name of Scythians, with their wives and
their children, their flocks and their herds, and their warriors,
fiercer than wolves, crossed the Volga, and took possession of the
whole country between the Don and the Danube.

These barbarians did not molest the Greek colonies, but, on the contrary,
were glad to learn of them many of the rudiments of civilization. Some
of these tribes retained their ancestral habits of wandering herdsmen,
and, with their flocks, traversed the vast and treeless plains, where
they found ample pasture. Others selecting sunny and fertile valleys,
scattered their seed and cultivated the soil. Thus the Scythians were
divided into two quite distinct classes, the herdsmen and the
laborers.
The tribes who then peopled the vast wilds of northern Europe and
Asia, though almost innumerable, and of different languages and
customs, were all called, by the Greeks, Scythians, as we have given
the general name of Indians to all the tribes who formerly ranged
the forests of North America. The Scythians were as ferocious a
race as earth has ever known. They drank the blood of their enemies;
tanned their skins for garments; used their skulls for drinking
cups; and worshiped a sword as the image or emblem of their favorite
deity, the God of War. Philip of Macedon was the first who put any
check upon their proud spirit. He conquered them in a decisive
battle, and thus taught them that they were not invincible. Alexander
the Great assailed them and spread the terror of his arms throughout
all the region between the Danube and the Dnieper. Subsequently the
Roman legions advanced to the Euxine, and planted their eagles upon
the heights of the Caucasus.
The Roman historians seem to have dropped the Scythian name, and
they called the whole northern expanse of Europe and Asia, Sarmatia,
and the barbarous inhabitants Sarmatians. About the time of our
Saviour, some of these fierce tribes from the banks of the Theiss
and the Danube, commenced their assaults upon the frontiers of the
Roman empire. This was the signal for that war of centuries, which
terminated in the overthrow of the throne of the Cæsars. The Roman
Senate, enervated by luxury, condescended to purchase peace of these
barbarians, and nations of savages, whose names are now forgotten,
exacted tribute, under guise of payment for alliance, from the proud
empire. But neither bribes, nor alliances, nor the sword in the
hands of enervated Rome, could effectually check the incursions of
these bands, who were ever emerging, like wolves, from the mysterious
depths of the North.
In the haze of those distant times and remote realms, we catch dim
glimpses of locust legions, emerging from the plains and the ravines
between the Black Sea and the Caspian, and sweeping like a storm
cloud over nearly all of what is now called Russia. These people,
to whom the name of Alains was given, had no fixed habitations;
they conveyed their women and children in rude carts. Their
devastations were alike extended over Europe and Asia, and in the
ferocity of their assaults they were as insensible to death as wild
beasts could be.
In the second century, the emperor Trajan conquered and took
possession of the province of Dacia, which included all of lower
Hungary, Transylvania, Moldavia, Wallachia and Bessarabia. The
country was divided into Roman provinces, over each of which a
prefect was established. In the third century, the Goths, from the
shores of the Baltic, came rushing over the wide arena, with the
howling of wolves and their gnashing of teeth. They trampled down
all opposition, with their war knives drove out the Romans, crossed
the Black Sea in their rude vessels, and spread conflagration and
death throughout the most flourishing cities and villages of Bythinia,
Gallacia and Cappadocia.
The famous temple of Diana at Ephesus, these barbarians committed
to the flames. They overran all Greece and took Athens by storm.
As they were about to destroy the precious libraries of Athens, one
of their chieftains said,
"Let us leave to the Greeks their books, that they, in reading them
may forget the arts of war; and that we thus may more easily be
able to hold them in subjection."
These Goths established an empire, extending from the Black Sea to
the Baltic, and which embraced nearly all of what is now European
Russia.
Towards the close of the fourth century, another of these appalling
waves of barbaric inundation rolled over northern Europe. The Huns,
emerging from the northern frontiers of China, traversed the immense
intervening deserts, and swept over European Russia, spreading
everywhere flames and desolation. The historians of that day seem
to find no language sufficiently forcible to describe the hideousness
and the ferocity of these savages. They pressed down on the Roman
empire as merciless as wolves, and the Cæsars turned pale at the
recital of their deeds of blood.
It is indeed a revolting picture which contemporaneous history gives
us of these barbarians. In their faces was concentrated the ugliness
of the hyena and the baboon. They tattooed their cheeks, to prevent
the growth of their beards. They were short, thick-set, and with
back bones curved almost into a semicircle. Herbs, roots and raw
meat they devoured, tearing their food with their teeth or hewing
it with their swords. To warm and soften their meat, they placed
it under their saddles when riding. Nearly all their lives they
passed on horseback.
Wandering incessantly over the vast plains, they had no fixed
habitations, but warmly clad in the untanned skins of beasts, like
the beasts they slept wherever the night found them. They had no
religion nor laws, no conception of ideas of honor; their language
was a wretched jargon, and in their nature there seemed to be no
moral sense to which compassion or mercy could plead.
Such were the Huns as described by the ancient historians. The Goths
struggled against them in vain. They were crushed and subjugated.
The king of the Goths, Hermanric, in chagrin and despair, committed
suicide, that he might escape slavery. Thousands of the Goths, in
their terror, crowded down into the Roman province of Thrace, now
the Turkish province of Romania. The empire, then in its decadence,
could not drive them back, and they obtained a permanent foothold
there. The Huns thus attained the supremacy throughout all of
northern Europe.
There were then very many tribes of diverse names peopling these
vast realms, and incessant wars were waged between them. The
domination which the Huns attained was precarious, and not distinctly
defined.
The terrible Attila ere long appears as the king of these Huns,
about the middle of the fifth century. This wonderful barbarian
extended his sway from the Volga to the Rhine, and from the Bosphorus
to the shores of the Baltic. Where-ever he appeared, blood flowed
in torrents. He swept the valley of the Danube with flame and sword,
destroying cities, fortresses and villages, and converting the whole
region into a desert. At the head of an army of seven hundred
thousand men, he plunged all Europe into dismay. Both the Eastern
and Western empire were compelled to pay him tribute. He even invaded
Gaul, and upon the plains of Chalons was defeated in one of the
most bloody battles ever fought in Europe. Contemporary historians
record that one hundred and six thousand dead were left upon the
field. With the death of Attila, the supremacy of the Huns vanished.
The irruption of the Huns was a devastating scourge, which terrified
the world. Whole nations were exterminated in their march, until
at last the horrible apparition disappeared, almost as suddenly as
it arose.We went in, and
found ourselves in a large and lofty hall, with an oaken roof and a stone
pavement, and the farther end was partitioned off as a court of justice.
In that portion of the hall the Judge was on the bench, and a trial was
going forward; but in the hither portion a mob of people, with their hats
on, were lounging and talking, and enjoying the warmth of the stoves.
The window over the judgment-seat had painted glass in it, and so, I
think, had some of the hall windows.  At the end of the hall hung a great
picture of Paul defending himself before Agrippa, where the Apostle
looked like an athlete, and had a remarkably bushy black beard.  Between
two of the windows hung an Indian bell from Burmah, ponderously thick and
massive.  Both the picture and the bell had been presented to the city as
tokens of affectionate remembrance by its children; and it is pleasant to
think that such failings exist in these old stable communities, and that
there are permanent localities where such gifts can be kept from
generation to generation.

At four o'clock we left the city of York, still in a pouring rain.  The
Black Swan, where we had been staying, is a good specimen of the old
English inn, sombre, quiet, with dark staircases, dingy rooms, curtained
beds,--all the possibilities of a comfortable life and good English fare,
in a fashion which cannot have been much altered for half a century.  It
is very homelike when one has one's family about him, but must be
prodigiously stupid for a solitary man.

We took the train for Manchester, over pretty much the same route that I
travelled last year.  Many of the higher hills in Yorkshire were white
with snow, which, in our lower region, softened into rain; but as we
approached Manchester, the western sky reddened, and gave promise of
better weather.  We arrived at nearly eight o'clock, and put up at the
Palatine Hotel.  In the evening I scrawled away at my journal till past
ten o'clock; for I have really made it a matter of conscience to keep a
tolerably full record of my travels, though conscious that everything
good escapes in the process.  In the morning we went out and visited the


MANCHESTER CATHEDRAL,


a particularly black and grimy edifice, containing some genuine old wood
carvings within the choir.  We stayed a good while, in order to see some
people married.  One couple, with their groomsman and bride's-maid, were
sitting within the choir; but when the clergyman was robed and ready,
there entered five other couples, each attended by groomsman and
bride's-maid.  They all were of the lower orders; one or two respectably
dressed, but most of them poverty-stricken,--the men in their ordinary
loafer's or laborer's attire, the women with their poor, shabby shawls
drawn closely about them; faded untimely, wrinkled with penury and care;
nothing fresh, virgin-like, or hopeful about them; joining themselves to
their mates with the idea of making their own misery less intolerable by
adding another's to it.  All the six couple stood up in a row before the
altar, with the groomsmen and bride's-maids in a row behind them; and
the clergyman proceeded to marry them in such a way that it almost
seemed to make every man and woman the husband and wife of every other.
However, there were some small portions of the service directed towards
each separate couple; and they appeared to assort themselves in their
own fashion afterwards, each one saluting his bride with a kiss.  The
clergyman, the sexton, and the clerk all seemed to find something funny
in this affair; and the woman who admitted us into the church smiled too,
when she told us that a wedding-party was waiting to be married.  But I
think it was the saddest thing we have seen since leaving home; though
funny enough if one likes to look at it from a ludicrous point of view.
This mob of poor marriages was caused by the fact that no marriage fee is
paid during Easter.

This ended the memorable things of our tour; for my wife and J----- left
Manchester for Southport, and I for Liverpool, before noon.


April 19th.--On the 15th, having been invited to attend at the laying of
the corner-stone of


MR. BROWNE'S FREE LIBRARY,


I went to the Town Hall, according to the programme, at eleven o'clock.
There was already a large number of people (invited guests, members of
the Historical Society, and other local associations) assembled in the
great hall-room, and one of these was delivering an address to Mr. Browne
as I entered.  Approaching the outer edge of the circle, I was met and
cordially greeted by Monckton Milnes, whom I like, and who always reminds
me of Longfellow, though his physical man is more massive.  While we were
talking together, a young man approached him with a pretty little
expression of surprise and pleasure at seeing him there.  He had a
slightly affected or made-up manner, and was rather a comely person.  Mr.
Milnes introduced him to me as Lord ------.  Hereupon, of course, I
observed him more closely; and I must say that I was not long in
discovering a gentle dignity and half-imperceptible reserve in his
manner; but still my first impression was quite as real as my second one.
He occupies, I suppose, the foremost position among the young men of
England, and has the fairest prospects of a high course before him;
nevertheless, he did not impress me as possessing the native qualities
that could entitle him to a high public career.  He has adopted public
life as his hereditary profession, and makes the very utmost of all his
abilities, cultivating himself to a determined end, knowing that he shall
have every advantage towards attaining his object.  His natural
disadvantages must have been, in some respects, unusually great; his
voice, for instance, is not strong, and appeared to me to have a more
positive defect than mere weakness.  Doubtless he has struggled manfully
against this defect; and it made me feel a certain sympathy, and, indeed,
a friendliness, for which he would not at all have thanked me, had he
known it.  I felt, in his person, what a burden it is upon human
shoulders, the necessity of keeping up the fame and historical importance
of an illustrious house; at least, when the heir to its honors has
sufficient intellect and sensibility to feel the claim that his country
and his ancestors and his posterity all have upon him.  Lord ------ is
fully capable of feeling these claims; but I would not care, methinks, to
take his position, unless I could have considerably more than his
strength.

In a little while we formed ourselves into a procession, four in a row,
and set forth from the Town Hall, through James Street, Lord Street, Lime
Street, all the way through a line of policemen and a throng of people;
and all the windows were alive with heads, and I never before was so
conscious of a great mass of humanity, though perhaps I may often have
seen as great a crowd.  But a procession is the best point of view from
which to see the crowd that collects together.  The day, too, was very
fine, even sunshiny, and the streets dry,--a blessing which cannot be
overestimated; for we should have been in a strange trim for the banquet,
had we been compelled to wade through the ordinary mud of Liverpool.  The
procession itself could not have been a very striking object.  In
America, it would have had a hundred picturesque and perhaps ludicrous
features,--the symbols of the different trades, banners with strange
devices, flower-shows, children, volunteer soldiers, cavalcades, and
every suitable and unsuitable contrivance; but we were merely a trail of
ordinary-looking individuals, in great-coats, and with precautionary
umbrellas.  The only characteristic or professional costume, as far as I
noticed, was that of the Bishop of Chester, in his flat cap and
black-silk gown; and that of Sir Henry Smith, the General of the
District, in full uniform, with a star and half a dozen medals on his
breast.  Mr. Browne himself, the hero of the day, was the plainest and
simplest man of all,--an exceedingly unpretending gentleman in black;
small, white-haired, pale, quiet, and respectable.  I rather wondered why
he chose to be the centre of all this ceremony; for he did not seem
either particularly to enjoy it, or to be at all incommoded by it, as a
more nervous and susceptible man might have been.

The site of the projected edifice is on one of the streets bordering on
St. George's Hall; and when we came within the enclosure, the
corner-stone, a large square of red freestone, was already suspended
over its destined place.  It has a brass plate let into it, with an
inscription, which will perhaps not be seen again till the present
English type has grown as antique as black-letter is now.  Two or three
photographs were now taken of the site, the corner-stone, Mr. Browne, the
distinguished guests, and the crowd at large; then ensued a prayer from
the Bishop of Chester, and speeches from Mr. Holme, Mr. Browne, Lord
------, Sir John Pakington, Sir Henry Smith, and as many others as there
was time for.  Lord ------ acquitted himself very creditably, though
brought out unexpectedly, and with evident reluctance.  I am convinced
that men, liable to be called on to address the public, keep a constant
supply of commonplaces in their minds, which, with little variation, can
be adapted to one subject about as well as to another; and thus they are
always ready to do well enough, though seldom to do particularly well.

From the scene of the corner-stone, we went to St. George's Hall, where a
drawing-room and dressing-room had been prepared for the principal
guests.  Before the banquet, I had some conversation with Sir James Kay
Shuttleworth, who had known Miss Bronte very intimately, and bore
testimony to the wonderful fidelity of Mrs. Gaskell's life of her.  He
seemed to have had an affectionate regard for her, and said that her
marriage promised to have been productive of great happiness; her husband
being not a remarkable man, but with the merit of an exceeding love for
her.

Mr. Browne now took me up into the gallery, which by this time was full
of ladies; and thence we had a fine view of the noble hall, with the
tables laid, in readiness for the banquet.  I cannot conceive of anything
finer than this hall: it needs nothing but painted windows to make it
perfect, and those I hope it may have one day or another.

At two o'clock we sat down to the banquet, which hardly justified that
name, being only a cold collation, though sufficiently splendid in its
way.  In truth, it would have been impossible to provide a hot dinner for
nine hundred people in a place remote from kitchens.  The principal table
extended lengthwise of the hall, and was a little elevated above the
other tables, which stretched across, about twenty in all.  Before each
guest, besides the bill of fare, was laid a programme of the expected
toasts, among which appeared my own name, to be proposed by Mr. Monckton
Milnes.  These things do not trouble me quite as much as they used,
though still it sufficed to prevent much of the enjoyment which I might
have had if I could have felt myself merely a spectator.  My left-hand
neighbor was Colonel Campbell of the Artillery; my right-hand one was Mr.
Picton, of the Library Committee; and I found them both companionable
men, especially the Colonel, who had served in China and in the Crimea,
and owned that he hated the French.  We did not make a very long business
of the eatables, and then came the usual toasts of ceremony, and
afterwards those more peculiar to the occasion, one of the first of which
was "The House of Stanley," to which Lord ------ responded.  It was a
noble subject, giving scope for as much eloquence as any man could have
brought to bear upon it, and capable of being so wrought out as to
develop and illustrate any sort of conservative or liberal tendencies
which the speaker might entertain.  There could not be a richer
opportunity for reconciling and making friends betwixt the old system of
society and the new; but Lord ------ did not seem to make anything of it.
I remember nothing that he said excepting his statement that the family
had been five hundred years connected with the town of Liverpool.  I wish
I could have responded to "The House of Stanley," and his Lordship could
have spoken in my behalf.  None of the speeches were remarkably good; the
Bishop of Chester's perhaps the best, though he is but a little man in
aspect, not at all filling up one's idea of a bishop, and the rest were
on an indistinguishable level, though, being all practised speakers, they
were less hum-y and ha-y than English orators ordinarily are.

I was really tired to death before my own turn came, sitting all that
time, as it were, on the scaffold, with the rope round my neck.  At last
Monckton Milnes was called up and made a speech, of which, to my dismay,
I could hardly hear a single word, owing to his being at a considerable
distance, on the other side of the chairman, and flinging his voice,
which is a bass one, across the hall, instead of adown it, in my
direction.  I could not distinguish one word of any allusions to my
works, nor even when he came to the toast, did I hear the terms in which
he put it, nor whether I was toasted on my own basis, or as representing
American literature, or as Consul of the United States.  At all events,
there was a vast deal of clamor; and uprose peers and bishop, general,
mayor, knights and gentlemen, everybody in the hall greeting me with all
the honors.  I had uprisen, too, to commence my speech; but had to sit
down again till matters grew more quiet, and then I got up, and proceeded
to deliver myself with as much composure as I ever felt at my own
fireside.  It is very strange, this self-possession and clear-sightedness
which I have experienced when standing before an audience, showing me my
way through all the difficulties resulting from my not having heard
Monckton Milnes's speech; and on since reading the latter, I do not see
how I could have answered it better.  My speech certainly was better
cheered than any other; especially one passage, where I made a colossus
of Mr. Browne, at which the audience grew so tumultuous in their applause
that they drowned my figure of speech before it was half out of my mouth.

After rising from table, Lord ------ and I talked about our respective
oratorical performances; and he appeared to have a perception that he is
not naturally gifted in this respect.  I like Lord ------, and wish that
it were possible that we might know one another better.  If a nobleman
has any true friend out of his own class, it ought to be a republican.
Nothing further of interest happened at the banquet, and the next morning
came out the newspapers with the reports of my speech, attributing to me
a variety of forms of ragged nonsense, which, poor speaker as I am, I was
quite incapable of uttering.


May 10th.--The winter is over, but as yet we scarcely have what ought to
be called spring; nothing but cold east-winds, accompanied with sunshine,
however, as east-winds generally are in this country.  All milder winds
seem to bring rain.  The grass has been green for a month,--indeed, it
has never been entirely brown,--and now the trees and hedges are
beginning to be in foliage.  Weeks ago the daisies bloomed, even in the
sandy grass-plot bordering on the promenade beneath our front windows;
and in the progress of the daisy, and towards its consummation, I saw the
propriety of Burns's epithet, "wee, modest, crimson-nipped flower,"--its
little white petals in the bud being fringed all round with crimson,
which fades into pure white when the flower blooms.  At the beginning of
this month I saw fruit-trees in blossom, stretched out flat against stone
walls, reminding me of a dead bird nailed against the side of a barn.
But it has been a backward and dreary spring; and I think Southport, in
the course of it, has lost its advantage over the rest of the Liverpool
neighborhood in point of milder atmosphere.  The east-wind feels even
rawer here than in the city.

Nevertheless, the columns, of the Southport Visitor begin to be well
replenished with the names of guests, and the town is assuming its aspect
of summer life.  To say the truth, except where cultivation has done its
utmost, there is very little difference between winter and summer in the
mere material aspect of Southport; there being nothing but a waste of
sand intermixed with plashy pools to seaward, and a desert of
sand-hillocks on the land side.  But now the brown, weather-hardened
donkey-women haunt people that stray along the reaches, and delicate
persons face the cold, rasping, ill-tempered blast on the promenade, and
children dig in the sands; and, for want of something better, it seems to
be determined that this shall be considered spring.

Southport is as stupid a place as I ever lived in; and I cannot but
bewail our ill fortune to have been compelled to spend so many months on
these barren sands, when almost every other square yard of England
contains something that would have been historically or poetically
interesting.  Our life here has been a blank.  There was, indeed, a
shipwreck, a month or two ago, when a large ship came ashore within a
mile from our windows; the larger portion of the crew landing safely on
the hither sands, while six or seven betook themselves to the boat, and
were lost in attempting to gain the shore, on the other side of the
Ribble.  After a lapse of several weeks, two or three of their drowned
bodies were found floating in this vicinity, and brought to Southport for
burial; so that it really is not at all improbable that Milton's Lycidas
floated hereabouts, in the rise and lapse of the tides, and that his
bones may still be whitening among the sands.

In the same gale that wrecked the above-mentioned vessel, a portion of a
ship's mast was driven ashore, after evidently having been a very long
time in and under water; for it was covered with great barnacles, and
torn sea-weed, insomuch that there was scarcely a bare place along its
whole length; clusters of sea-anemones were sticking to it, and I know
not what strange marine productions besides.  J----- at once recognized
the sea-anemones, knowing them by his much reading of Gosse's Aquarium;
and though they must now have been two or three days high and dry out of
water, he made an extempore aquarium out of a bowl, and put in above a
dozen of these strange creatures.  In a little while they bloomed out
wonderfully, and even seemed to produce young anemones; but, from some
fault in his management, they afterwards grew sickly and died.  S-----
thinks that the old storm-shattered mast, so studded with the growth of
the ocean depths, is a relic of the Spanish Armada which strewed its
wrecks along all the shores of England; but I hardly think it would have
taken three hundred years to produce this crop of barnacles and
sea-anemones.  A single summer might probably have done it.

Yesterday we all of us except R----- went to Liverpool to see the
performances of an American circus company.  I had previously been, a day
or two before, with J-----, and had been happy to perceive that the fact
of its being an American establishment really induced some slight
swelling of the heart within me.  It is ridiculous enough, to be sure,
but I like to find myself not wholly destitute of this noble weakness,
patriotism.  Biography, 268 IV. Miscellaneous, 268

LETTERS, &c.

LETTER I.

_The Christian's Mark._

"Forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth unto
those things which are before, I _press_ towards the mark for the
prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus."

--PHIL. 3:13, 14.

MY DEAR SISTER,
Ever since the death of our dear mother, I have felt a deep interest
in your welfare. And your being left, while young, in a measure dependent
upon me, has increased my affection for you. You have now left my roof,
to sojourn among strangers. You have little knowledge of the world, and
your religious experience has been short. I trust, therefore, you
will cordially receive a few hints from one whose fraternal affection
has been strengthened by many peculiar circumstances, and who, for many
years, has not ceased to remember you in his prayers.

Young Christians, when they first obtain peace and comfort in Christ, are
prone to think the struggle over, the victory won. But nothing can be
farther from the truth. They have but just enlisted under the banner
of the great Captain of their salvation, in a warfare which will never
cease till they shall have obtained the final victory over sin and death,
and entered into the joy of their Lord. This mistake often leads them
to be satisfied with what they have already experienced, and to cease
that constant inward strife and earnestness, which they exercised while
under conviction, before they found "joy and peace in believing." They see
such a heavenly sweetness in divine things, that they think it impossible
they should "lose the relish all their days." This begets self-confidence,
and they trust in their own strength to keep where they are, instead
of eagerly pressing forward, in the strength of Christ, after higher
attainments.

The consequence is, they soon lose their lively sense of divine things,
backslide from God, and become cold and barren in their religious affections.
A little child, when it first begins to walk, is safe while it keeps hold
of the hand of its mother, or faithful nurse. But, when it begins to feel
confident of its own strength, and lets go its hold, it soon totters
and falls. So with the Christian. He is safe while he keeps a firm hold
of Christ's hand. But the moment he attempts to walk alone, he stumbles
and falls.

The Scriptures represent the grace of God in the heart, as a growing
principle.

It is compared to a mustard-seed, which is the least of all seeds. But,
when it springs up, it rises and spreads its branches, till it becomes
the greatest of all herbs. The beauty and appropriateness of this figure
will not be appreciated, unless we take into consideration the luxuriant
growth of plants in Eastern countries. The Jews have a fable of a
mustard-tree whose branches were so extensive as to cover a tent. There
are two things that no one would expect to see, in the growth of such a
plant: (1.) To spring at once into full maturity. (2.) To become stationary
in its growth, before it arrives at maturity. If it ceases to grow, it
must wither away and die.

The spiritual reign of Christ in the heart is also compared to a _little
leaven_, which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal,
till the whole was leavened.

It was so little at first that it was said to be _hid_. It could not be
seen. So grace, when first implanted in the heart, is often so little in
degree, and so much buried up in remaining corruption, that it can scarcely
be discovered at all. But the moment the leaven begins to work, it
increases without ceasing, till the whole is leavened.

Again; Christ says, "the water that I shall give him shall be _in him_ a
well of water, _springing up into everlasting life_." When these words
were uttered, our Lord was sitting upon a deep well, in conversation with
the woman of Samaria. As his custom was, he drew instruction from
the objects around him.

He directed her attention away from the water which can only quench
animal thirst, to that living water which refreshes the soul. But she,
not understanding him, wished to know how he could obtain _living
water_ from a deep well, without anything to draw with. In order to show
the superiority of the water of life, he told her that those who drank it
should have it _in them_, constantly springing up of itself, as if the
waters of the well should rise up and overflow, without being drawn. The
very idea of a _living spring_ seems to cut off the hope of backsliders.
You remember the cold spring that used to flow from the rock, before our
father's door. The severest drought never affected it, and in the coldest
season of a northern winter it was never frozen. Oft, as I rose in the
morning, when the chilling blasts whistled around our dwelling, and
everything seemed sealed up with perpetual frost, the ice and snow would
be smoking around the spring. Thus, like a steady stream, let your
graces flow, unaffected by the drought or barrenness of others, melting
the icy hearts around you.

This "_living water_," in the soul, is intended to represent the indwelling
of the Holy Spirit. In the new birth, there is formed a holy union
between the Spirit of God and the faculties of the soul, so that every
correct feeling, with every good act, is produced by the Holy Spirit
acting in unison with those faculties. Hence, our bodies are called the
temple of the Holy Ghost, and he is said to dwell in us. What a solemn
truth! What holy fear and carefulness ought we to feel continually;
and how softly should we walk before the Lord of Hosts!

"The righteous," says David, "shall flourish like a palm-tree; he shall
_grow_ like a cedar in Lebanon." But if the cedar should cease to grow
as soon as it springs up, it would never become a tree. It must wither
and die.--Again; it is said, "Ye shall _go forth and grow up as calves of
the stall_." A healthy calf, that is fed in the stall, cannot but grow
and thrive. And surely the Lord has furnished us, in his holy word,
abundant food for our spiritual growth and nourishment. If the calf is
diseased, or if he refuses to eat, he will pine away and die; and so with
us. The apostle Paul speaks of _growing up_ into Christ, in all things;
and of _increasing_ in the knowledge of God. By this he evidently
means, that experimental knowledge of God in our hearts, by which
we are changed into his image.

The apostle Peter exhorts us to "_grow_ in the grace, and in the knowledge
of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ." Again, he directs us to feed
upon the sincere and simple truths of the gospel, as the infant
is nourished by its mother's milk, and to _grow_ thereby.

As conversion is called being "born again," the young convert is
very properly compared to a "new-born babe." As a babe is least when
first born, so the Christian, when first converted, has the least grace;
unless, indeed, he becomes diseased, and pines away, like a sickly infant.
And such is truly the deplorable case of the backslider.

The motives which urge us to seek and maintain an elevated standard
of piety are the highest that can be presented to our minds. _The glory
of God requires it._ This is the greatest possible good. It is the
manifestation of the divine perfections to his intelligent creatures.
This manifestation is made by discovering to them his works of creation,
providence, and grace, and by impressing his moral image upon their
hearts. In this their happiness consists. In promoting his own glory,
therefore, God exercises the highest degree of disinterested benevolence.
Nothing can add to his happiness; nothing can diminish it.
If the whole creation were blotted out, and God were the only Being in
the universe, he would still be perfectly glorious and happy in
himself.
There can be, therefore, no selfishness in his desiring his own
glory.

It is the good of the creature alone that is promoted by it. A desire to
glorify God must, then, be the ruling principle of all your conduct, the
moving spring of all your actions. But how is the glory of God promoted
by your growth in grace?

1. It is manifested to yourself, by impressing his image upon your heart;
and by giving you a spiritual discovery of the excellence, purity and
loveliness, of his moral character.

2. It is manifested to others, so far as you maintain a holy life and
conversation; for thereby the moral image of Christ is exhibited. The
glory of Christ is manifested by the holy walk of his people, just as
the glory of the sun appears by the reflected light of the moon.

3. The glory of God is promoted by making others acquainted with the
exhaustless riches of free grace, and bringing them to Christ; for, by
that means, they receive spiritual light to behold the beauty and glory
of the divine perfections, and his image is stamped upon their souls.
But your usefulness in this respect depends mainly upon the measure of
grace you have in your own heart. The reason why many Christians
do so little good in the world is, that they have so little piety.
If you would be eminently useful, you must be eminently holy.

But, you may ask, "What is the standard at which I must aim?" I answer:

The law of God is the only true standard of moral excellence; and you
have the pattern of that law carried out in action, in the perfect life
of our blessed Lord and Master. No standard short of this will answer
the requirements of the word of God. "He that abideth in him, ought
himself also so to walk, EVEN AS HE WALKED." All that we fall short of
this is _sin_. There is no want of ability in the case, but what arises
from our own voluntary wickedness of heart. Christ says that he came not
to _destroy_ the law, but to fulfil it. "We are not released from the
_obligation_ of perfect obedience; though grace has taken away the
_necessity_ of such obedience as the ground of our acceptance with God."
The law is not made void, but established, by grace. We cannot be _saved_
by our obedience; because we have already broken the law, and we cannot
mend it. But, while we trust alone in Christ, independent of anything
in ourselves, for justification before God, the signs or evidences of our
faith must be found within us. There must be a new and holy principle
in our hearts; and just as far as this principle prevails, so far it will
show itself in obedience to the law of God.
There is no resting-place, in the agonizing conflict, till we are
"_holy as God is holy_." I do not say that Christians ever do become
perfectly holy in this life. The contrary appears, from the testimony
both of Scripture and experience, to be the universal fact. But this
is the measure of obligation, and we should strive after it with all
the earnestness of which we are capable.

We must not settle down contented with our attainments, while one sin
remains unsubdued in our hearts. The Scriptures are full of this doctrine.
The apostle Paul expresses far more earnestness of desire after higher
attainments in the divine life than is ever felt by such Christians as
have only a feeble and glimmering hope of entering the abodes of the
blessed. "If _by any means_," says he, "I might attain unto the
resurrection of the dead;" or that state of perfect holiness which the
saints will have attained at the resurrection. And the kind of effort
which he put forth to obtain the object of his desires is most forcibly
described in the passage quoted at the beginning of this letter. In
view of this standard, you will be able to see, in some measure, the
exceeding sinfulness of sin; and it will drive you more entirely out
of yourself to the cross of Christ. You will see the necessity of daily
renewing your repentance, submission, and faith.

You see, from what the apostle says of his own experience, that high
spiritual attainments are not to be expected without great labor and
strife. True piety is indeed the work of the Holy Spirit; but the fact
that God works in us to will and to do of his good pleasure, is made the
ground of Paul's exhortation to work out our own salvation with fear
and trembling.

The attainments of eminent saints are too generally looked upon
as out of the reach of common Christians. They seem to think God is not
willing to give all his children the same measure of grace. But he
could not have said more than he has in his holy word, to convince them
to the contrary. "Open thy mouth _wide_, and I will fill it."

Our Lord repeatedly assures us that God is more willing to give good
things to those that ask him, than earthly parents are to give good
gifts to their children. And whoever will read the lives of such eminent
Christians as Edwards, Whitefield, Brainerd, Martyn, Payson, Mrs. Edwards,
Mrs.
Anthony, Mrs. Huntington, James B. Taylor, and many others which might
be mentioned,--and take notice of the means which they used, will not
be surprised at their attainments. The Bible represents the Christian
as in the constant exercise of holy affections; and we should never rest
with anything short of this. Some of the persons I have mentioned did
arrive at such a state of feeling. President Edwards enjoyed, for many
years, the constant light of God's countenance, and habitual communion
with him. And so did Mrs. Edwards, James B. Taylor, and many others.

She, for a long time, enjoyed, as she said, "THE RICHES OF FULL ASSURANCE."
She felt "an uninterrupted and entire resignation to God, with respect
to health or sickness, ease or pain, life or death; and an entire
resignation of the lives of her nearest earthly friends."

She also felt a "sweet peace and serenity of soul, without a cloud
to interrupt it; a continual rejoicing in all the works of nature
and Providence; a wonderful access to God by prayer, sensibly
conversing with him, as much as if God were here on earth; frequent,
plain, sensible, and immediate answers to prayer; all tears wiped
away; all former troubles and sorrows of life forgotten, except
sorrow for sin; doing everything for God's glory, with a continual
and uninterrupted cheerfulness, peace, and joy."

At the same time, she engaged in the common duties of life with great
diligence, considering them as a part of the service of God; and, when
done from this motive, she said they were as delightful as prayer
itself. She also showed an "extreme anxiety to avoid every sin,
and to discharge every moral obligation; she was most exemplary in
the performance of every social and relative duty; exhibited great
inoffensiveness of life and conversation; great meekness, benevolence,
and gentleness of spirit; and avoided, with remarkable conscientiousness,
all those things which she regarded as failings in her own character."

How did these persons arrive at this eminence in the Christian
life?
Although by free sovereign grace, yet it was by no miracle. If you
will use the same means, you may attain the same end. In the early
part of his Christian life, President Edwards says,--"I felt a
_burning desire_ to be, in everything, a _complete_ Christian, and
conformed to the blessed image of Christ. I had an eager thirsting
after _progress_ in these things, which put me upon pursuing and
_pressing_ after them.The first stage of
our journey to-day was to Grantham, through a country the greater part of
which was as level as the Lincolnshire landscapes have been, throughout
our experience of them.  We saw several old villages, gathered round
their several churches; and one of these little communities, "Little
Byforth," had a very primitive appearance,--a group of twenty or thirty
dwellings of stone and thatch, without a house among them that could be
so modern as a hundred years.  It is a little wearisome to think of
people living from century to century in the same spot, going in and out
of the same doors, cultivating the same fields, meeting the same faces,
and marrying one another over and over again; and going to the same
church, and lying down in the same churchyard,--to appear again, and go
through the same monotonous round in the next generation.

At Grantham, our route branches off from the main line; and there was a
delay of about an hour, during which we walked up into the town, to take
a nearer view of a tall gray steeple which we saw from the railway
station.  The streets that led from the station were poor and
commonplace; and, indeed, a railway seems to have the effect of making
its own vicinity mean.  We noticed nothing remarkable until we got to the
marketplace, in the centre of which there is a cross, doubtless of great
antiquity, though it is in too good condition not to have been recently
repaired.  It consists of an upright pillar, with a pedestal of half a
dozen stone steps, which are worn hollow by the many feet that have
scraped their hobnailed shoes upon them.  Among these feet, it is highly
probable, may have been those of Sir Isaac Newton, who was a scholar of
the free school of this town; and when J----- scampered up the steps, we
told him so.  Visible from the market-place also stands the Angel Inn,
which seems to be a wonderfully old inn, being adorned with gargoyles and
other antique sculpture, with projecting windows, and an arched entrance,
and presenting altogether a frontispiece of so much venerable state that
I feel curious to know its history.  Had I been aware that the chief
hotel of Grantham were such a time-honored establishment, I should have
arranged to pass the night there, especially as there were interesting
objects enough in the town to occupy us pleasantly.  The church--the
steeple of which is seen over the market-place, but is removed from it by
a street or two--is very fine; the tower and spire being adorned with
arches, canopies, and niches,--twelve of the latter for the twelve
Apostles, all of whom have now vanished,--and with fragments of other
Gothic ornaments.  The jackdaws have taken up their abodes in the
crevices and crannies of the upper half of the steeple.

We left Grantham at nearly seven, and reached


NOTTINGHAM


just before eight.  The castle, situated on a high and precipitous rock,
directly over the edge of which look the walls, was visible, as we drove
from the station to our hotel.  We followed the advice of a railway
attendant in going first to the May Pole, which proved to be a commercial
inn, with the air of a drinking-shop, in a by-alley; and, furthermore,
they could not take us in.  So we drove to the George the Fourth, which
seems to be an excellent house; and here I have remained quiet, the size
of the town discouraging me from going out in the twilight which was fast
coming on after tea.  These are glorious long days for travel; daylight
fairly between four in the morning and nine at night, and a margin of
twilight on either side.


May 29th.--After breakfast, this morning, I wandered out and lost myself;
but at last found the post-office, and a letter from Mr. Wilding, with
some perplexing intelligence.  Nottingham is an unlovely and
uninteresting town.  The castle I did not see; but, I happened upon a
large and stately old church, almost cathedralic in its dimensions.  On
returning to the hotel, we deliberated on the mode of getting to Newstead
Abbey, and we finally decided upon taking a fly, in which conveyance,
accordingly, we set out before twelve.  It was a slightly overcast day,
about half intermixed of shade and sunshine, and rather cool, but not so
cool that we could exactly wish it warmer.  Our drive to Newstead lay
through what was once a portion of Sherwood Forest, though all of it, I
believe, has now become private property, and is converted into fertile
fields, except where the owners of estates have set out plantations.  We
have now passed out of the fen-country, and the land rises and falls in
gentle swells, presenting a pleasant, but not striking, character of
scenery.  I remember no remarkable object on the road,--here and there an
old inn, a gentleman's seat of moderate pretension, a great deal of tall
and continued hedge, a quiet English greenness and rurality, till,
drawing near


NEWSTEAD ABBEY,


we began to see copious plantations, principally of firs, larches, and
trees of that order, looking very sombre, though with some intermingling
of lighter foliage.  It was after one when we reached "The Hut,"--a
small, modern wayside inn, almost directly across the road from the
entrance-gate of Newstead.  The post-boy calls the distance ten miles
from Nottingham.  He also averred that it was forbidden to drive visitors
within the gates; so we left the fly at the inn, and set out to walk from
the entrance to the house.  There is no porter's lodge; and the grounds,
in this outlying region, had not the appearance of being very primly
kept, but were well wooded with evergreens, and much overgrown with
ferns, serving for cover for hares, which scampered in and out of their
hiding-places.  The road went winding gently along, and, at the distance
of nearly a mile, brought us to a second gate, through which we likewise
passed, and walked onward a good way farther, seeing much wood, but as
yet nothing of the Abbey.  At last, through the trees, we caught a
glimpse of its battlements, and saw, too, the gleam of water, and then
appeared the Abbey's venerable front.  It comprises the western wall of
the church, which is all that remains of that fabric,--a great, central
window, entirely empty, without tracery or mullions; the ivy clambering
up on the inside of the wall, and hanging over in front.  The front of
the inhabited part of the house extends along on a line with this church
wall, rather low, with battlements along its top, and all in good keeping
with the ruinous remnant.  We met a servant, who replied civilly to our
inquiries about the mode of gaining admittance, and bade us ring a bell
at the corner of the principal porch.  We rang accordingly, and were
forthwith admitted into a low, vaulted basement, ponderously wrought with
intersecting arches, dark and rather chilly, just like what I remember to
have seen at Battle Abbey; and, after waiting here a little while, a
respectable elderly gentlewoman appeared, of whom we requested to be
shown round the Abbey.  She courteously acceded, first presenting us to a
book in which to inscribe our names.

I suppose ten thousand people, three fourths of them Americans, have
written descriptions of Newstead Abbey; and none of them, so far as I
have read, give any true idea of the place; neither will my description,
if I write one.  In fact, I forget very much that I saw, and especially
in what order the objects came.  In the basement was Byron's bath,--a
dark and cold and cellarlike hole, which it must have required good
courage to plunge into; in this region, too, or near it, was the chapel,
which Colonel Wildman has decorously fitted up, and where service is now
regularly performed, but which was used as a dog's kennel in Byron's
time.

After seeing this, we were led to Byron's own bedchamber, which remains
just as when he slept in it,--the furniture and all the other
arrangements being religiously preserved.  It was in the plainest
possible style, homely, indeed, and almost mean,--an ordinary
paper-hanging, and everything so commonplace that it was only the deep
embrasure of the window that made it look unlike a bedchamber in a
middling-class lodging-house.  It would have seemed difficult,
beforehand, to fit up a room in that picturesque old edifice so that it
should be utterly void of picturesqueness; but it was effected in this
apartment, and I suppose it is a specimen of the way in which old
mansions used to be robbed of their antique character, and adapted to
modern tastes, before mediaeval antiquities came into fashion.  Some
prints of the Cambridge colleges, and other pictures indicating Byron's
predilections at the time, and which he himself had hung there, were on
the walls.  This, the housekeeper told us, had been the Abbot's chamber,
in the monastic time.  Adjoining it is the haunted room, where the
ghostly monk, whom Byron introduces into Don Juan, is said to have his
lurking-place.  It is fitted up in the same style as Byron's, and used to
be occupied by his valet or page.  No doubt in his Lordship's day, these
were the only comfortable bedrooms in the Abbey; and by the housekeeper's
account of what Colonel Wildman has done, it is to be inferred that the
place must have been in a most wild, shaggy, tumble-down condition,
inside and out, when he bought it.

It is very different now.  After showing us these two apartments of Byron
and his servant, the housekeeper led us from one to another and another
magnificent chamber fitted up in antique style, with oak panelling, and
heavily carved bedsteads, of Queen Elizabeth's time, or of the Stuarts,
hung with rich tapestry curtains of similar date, and with beautiful old
cabinets of carved wood, sculptured in relief, or tortoise-shell and
ivory.  The very pictures and realities, these rooms were, of stately
comfort; and they were called by the name of kings,--King Edward's, King
Charles II's, King Henry VII's chamber; and they were hung with beautiful
pictures, many of them portraits of these kings.  The chimney-pieces were
carved and emblazoned; and all, so far as I could judge, was in perfect
keeping, so that if a prince or noble of three centuries ago were to come
to lodge at Newstead Abbey, he would hardly know that he had strayed out
of his own century.  And yet he might have known by some token, for there
are volumes of poetry and light literature on the tables in these royal
bedchambers, and in that of Henry VII.  I saw The House of the Seven
Gables and The Scarlet Letter in Routledge's edition.

Certainly the house is admirably fitted up; and there must have been
something very excellent and comprehensive in the domestic arrangements
of the monks, since they adapt themselves so well to a state of society
entirely different from that in which they originated.  The library is a
very comfortable room, and provocative of studious ideas, though lounging
and luxurious.  It is long, and rather low, furnished with soft couches,
and, on the whole, though a man might dream of study, I think he would be
most likely to read nothing but novels there.  I know not what the room
was in monkish times, but it was waste and ruinous in Lord Byron's.
Here, I think, the housekeeper unlocked a beautiful cabinet, and took out
the famous skull which Lord Byron transformed into a drinking-goblet.  It
has a silver rim and stand, but still the ugly skull is bare and evident,
and the naked inner bone receives the wine.  I should think it would hold
at least a quart,--enough to overpower any living head into which this
death's-head should transfer its contents; and a man must be either very
drunk or very thirsty, before he would taste wine out of such a goblet.
I think Byron's freak was outdone by that of a cousin of my own, who once
solemnly assured me that he had a spittoon made out of the skull of his
enemy.  The ancient coffin in which the goblet-skull was found was shown
us in the basement of the Abbey.

There was much more to see in the house than I had any previous notion
of; but except the two chambers already noticed, nothing remained the
least as Byron left it.  Yes, another place there was,--his own small
dining-room, with a table of moderate size, where, no doubt, the
skull-goblet has often gone its rounds.  Colonel Wildman's dining-room
was once Byron's shooting-gallery, and the original refectory of the
monks.  It is now magnificently arranged, with a vaulted roof, a
music-gallery at one end, suits of armor and weapons on the walls, and
mailed arms extended, holding candelabras.  There are one or two painted
windows, commemorative of the Peninsular war, and the battles in which
the Colonel and his two brothers fought,--for these Wildmen seem to
have been mighty troopers, and Colonel Wildman is represented as a
fierce-looking mustachioed hussar at two different ages.  The housekeeper
spoke of him affectionately, but says that he is now getting into years,
and that they fancy him failing.  He has no children.  He appears to have
been on good terms with Byron, and had the latter ever returned to
England, he was under promise to make his first visit to his old home,
and it was in such an expectation that Colonel Wildman had kept Byron's
private apartments in the same condition in which he found them.  Byron
was informed of all the Colonel's fittings up and restorations, and when
he introduces the Abbey in Don Juan, the poet describes it, not as he
himself left it, but as Colonel Wildman has restored it.  There is a
beautiful drawing-room, and all these apartments are adorned with
pictures, the collection being especially rich in portraits by Sir Peter
Lely,--that of Nell Gwynn being one, who is one of the few beautiful
women whom I have seen on canvas.

We parted with the housekeeper, and I with a good many shillings, at the
door by which we entered; and our next business was to see the private
grounds and gardens.  A little boy attended us through the first part of
our progress, but soon appeared the veritable gardener,--a shrewd and
sensible old man, who has been very many years on the place.  There was
nothing of special interest as concerning Byron until we entered the
original old monkish garden, which is still laid out in the same fashion
as the monks left it, with a large, oblong piece of water in the centre,
and terraced banks rising at two or three different stages with perfect
regularity around it; so that the sheet of water looks like the plate of
an immense looking-glass, of which the terraces form the frame.  It seems
as if, were there any giant large enough, he might raise up this mirror
and set it on end.  In the monks' garden, there is a marble statue of
Pan, which, the gardener told us, was brought by the "Wicked Lord"
(great-uncle of Byron) from Italy, and was supposed by the country people
to represent the Devil, and to be the object of his worship,--a natural
idea enough, in view of his horns and cloven feet and tail, though this
indicates, at all events, a very jolly devil.  There is also a female
statue, beautiful from the waist upward, but shaggy and cloven-footed
below, and holding a little cloven-footed child by the hand.  This, the
old gardener assured us, was Pandora, wife of the above-mentioned Pan,
with her son.  Not far from this spot, we came to the tree on which Byron
carved his own name and that of his sister Augusta.  It is a tree of twin
stems,--a birch-tree, I think,--growing up side by side.  One of the
stems still lives and flourishes, but that on which he carved the two
names is quite dead, as if there had been something fatal in the
inscription that has made it forever famous.  The names are still very
legible, although the letters had been closed up by the growth of the
bark before the tree died.  They must have been deeply cut at first.

There are old yew-trees of unknown antiquity in this garden, and many
other interesting things; and among them may be reckoned a fountain of
very pure water, called the "Holy Well," of which we drank.  There are
several fountains, besides the large mirror in the centre of the garden;
and these are mostly inhabited by carp, the genuine descendants of those
which peopled the fish-ponds in the days of the monks.  Coming in front
of the Abbey, the gardener showed us the oak that Byron planted, now a
vigorous young tree; and the monument which he erected to his
Newfoundland dog, and which is larger than most Christians get, being
composed of a marble, altar-shaped tomb, surrounded by a circular area of
steps, as much as twenty feet in diameter.  The gardener said, however,
that Byron intended this, not merely as the burial-place of his dog, but
for himself too, and his sister.  I know not how this may have been, but
this inconvenience would have attended his being buried there, that, on
transfer of the estate, his mortal remains would have become the property
of some other man.

We had now come to the empty space,--a smooth green lawn, where had once
been the Abbey church.  The length had been sixty-four yards, the
gardener said, and within his remembrance there had been many remains of
it, but now they are quite removed, with the exception of the one
ivy-grown western wall, which, as I mentioned, forms a picturesque part
of the present front of the Abbey.  Through a door in this wall the
gardener now let us out. . . .

In the evening our landlady, who seems to be a very intelligent woman, of
a superior class to most landladies, came into our parlor, while I was
out, and talked about the present race of Byrons and Lovelaces, who have
often been at this house.  There seems to be a taint in the Byron blood
which makes those who inherit it wicked, mad, and miserable.  Even
Colonel Wildman comes in for a share of this ill luck, for he has almost
ruined himself by his expenditure on the estate, and by his lavish
hospitality, especially to the Duke of Sussex, who liked the Colonel, and
used often to visit him during his lifetime, and his Royal Highness's
gentlemen ate and drank Colonel Wildman almost up.  So says our good
landlady.  At any rate, looking at this miserable race of Byrons, who
held the estate so long, and at Colonel Wildman, whom it has ruined in
forty years, we might see grounds for believing in the evil fate which is
supposed to attend confiscated church property.  Nevertheless, I would
accept the estate, were it offered me.

. . . . Glancing back, I see that I have omitted some items that were
curious in describing the house; for instance, one of the cabinets had
been the personal property of Queen Elizabeth.  It seems to me that the
fashion of modern furniture has nothing to equal these old cabinets for
beauty and convenience.  In the state apartments, the floors were so
highly waxed and polished that we slid on them as if on ice, and could
only make sure of our footing by treading on strips of carpeting that
were laid down.


June 7th.--We left Nottingham a week ago, and made our first stage to
Derby, where we had to wait an hour or two at a great, bustling,
pell-mell, crowded railway station.  It was much thronged with second and
third class passengers, coming and departing in continual trains; for
these were the Whitsuntide holidays, which set all the lower orders of
English people astir.  This time of festival was evidently the origin of
the old "Election" holidays in Massachusetts; the latter occurring at the
same period of the year, and being celebrated (so long as they could be
so) in very much the same way, with games, idleness, merriment of set
purpose, and drunkenness.  After a weary while we took the train for


MATLOCK,


via Ambergate, and arrived of the former place late in the afternoon.
The village of Matlock is situated on the banks of the Derwent, in a
delightful little nook among the hills, which rise above it in steeps,
and in precipitous crags, and shut out the world so effectually that I
wonder how the railway ever found it out.  Indeed, it does make its
approach to this region through a long tunnel.  It was a beautiful, sunny
afternoon when we arrived, and my present impressions are, that I have
never seen anywhere else such exquisite scenery as that which surrounds
the village.  The street itself, to be sure, is commonplace enough, and
hot, dusty, and disagreeable; but if you look above it, or on either
side, there are green hills descending abruptly down, and softened with
woods, amid which are seen villas, cottages, castles; and beyond the
river is a line of crags, perhaps three hundred feet high, clothed with
shrubbery in some parts from top to bottom, but in other places
presenting a sheer precipice of rock, over which tumbles, as it were, a
cascade of ivy and creeping plants.  It is very beautiful, and, I might
almost say, very wild; but it has those characteristics of finish, and of
being redeemed from nature, and converted into a portion of the adornment
of a great garden, which I find in all English scenery.  Not that I
complain of this; on the contrary, there is nothing that delights an
American more, in contrast with the roughness and ruggedness of his
native scenes,--to which, also, he might be glad to return after a while.

We put up at the old Bath Hotel,--an immense house, with passages of such
extent that at first it seemed almost a day's journey from parlor to
bedroom.  The house stands on a declivity, and after ascending one pair
of stairs, we came, in travelling along the passageway, to a door that
opened upon a beautifully arranged garden, with arbors and grottos, and
the hillside rising steep above.  During all the time of our stay at
Matlock there was brilliant sunshine, and, the grass and foliage being in
their freshest and most luxuriant phase, the place has left as bright a
picture as I have anywhere in my memory.

The morning after our arrival we took a walk, and, following the sound of
a church-bell, entered what appeared to be a park, and, passing along a
road at the base of a line of crags, soon came in sight of a beautiful
church.  I rather imagine it to be the place of worship of the Arkwright
family, whose seat is in this vicinity,--the descendants of the famous
Arkwright who contributed so much towards turning England into a cotton
manufactory.  We did not enter the church, but passed beyond it, and over
a bridge, and along a road that ascended among the hills and finally
brought us out by a circuit to the other end of Matlock village, after a
walk of three or four miles.  In the afternoon we took a boat across the
Derwent,--a passage which half a dozen strokes of the oars accomplished,
--and reached a very pleasant seclusion called "The Lovers' Walk."  A
ferriage of twopence pays for the transit across the river, and gives the
freedom of these grounds, which are threaded with paths that meander and
zigzag to the top of the precipitous ridge, amid trees and shrubbery, and
the occasional ease of rustic seats.  It is a sweet walk for lovers, and
was so for us; although J-----, with his scramblings and disappearances,
and shouts from above, and headlong scamperings down the precipitous
paths, occasionally frightened his mother.  After gaining the heights,
the path skirts along the precipice, allowing us to see down into the
village street, and, nearer, the Derwent winding through the valley so
close beneath us that we might have flung a stone into it.  These crags
would be very rude and harsh if left to themselves, but they are quite
softened and made sweet and tender by the great deal of foliage that
clothes their sides, and creeps and clambers over them, only letting a
stern face of rock be seen here and there, and with a smile rather than a
frown.

The next day, Monday, we went to see the grand cavern.  The entrance is
high up on the hillside, whither we were led by a guide, of whom there
are many, and they all pay tribute to the proprietor of the cavern.
There is a small shed by the side of the cavern mouth, where the guide
provided himself and us with tallow candles, and then led us into the
darksome and ugly pit, the entrance of which is not very imposing, for it
has a door of rough pine boards, and is kept under lock and key.  This is
the disagreeable phase-one of the disagreeable phases--of man's conquest
over nature in England,--cavern mouths shut up with cellar doors,
cataracts under lock and key, precipitous crags compelled to figure in
ornamented gardens,--and all accessible at a fixed amount of shillings or
pence.  It is not possible to draw a full free breath under such
circumstances.  When you think of it, it makes the wildest scenery look
like the artificial rock-work which Englishmen are so fond of displaying
in the little bit of grass-plot under their suburban parlor windows.
However, the cavern was dreary enough and wild enough, though in a mean
sort of way; for it is but a long series of passages and crevices,
generally so narrow that you scrape your elbows, and so low that you hit
your head.  It has nowhere a lofty height, though sometimes it broadens
out into ample space, but not into grandeur, the roof being always within
reach, and in most places smoky with the tallow candles that have been
held up to it.  A very dirty, sordid, disagreeable burrow, more like a
cellar gone mad than anything else; but it served to show us how the
crust of the earth is moulded.  This cavern was known to the Romans, and
used to be worked by them as a lead-mine.  Derbyshire spar is now taken
from it; and in some of its crevices the gleam of the tallow candles is
faintly reflected from the crystallizations; but, on the whole, I felt
like a mole, as I went creeping along, and was glad when we came into the
sunshine again.  I rather think my idea of a cavern is taken from the one
in the Forty Thieves, or in Gil Blas,--a vast, hollow womb, roofed and
curtained with obscurity.  This reality is very mean.

Leaving the cavern, we went to the guide's cottage, situated high above
the village, where he showed us specimens of ornaments and toys
manufactured by himself from Derbyshire spar and other materials.  There
was very pretty mosaic work, flowers of spar, and leaves of malachite,
and miniature copies of Cleopatra's Needle, and other Egyptian monuments,
and vases of graceful pattern, brooches, too, and many other things.  The
most valuable spar is called Blue John, and is only to be found in one
spot, where, also, the supply is said to be growing scant.  We bought a
number of articles, and then came homeward, still with our guide, who
showed us, on the way, the Romantic Rocks.  These are some crags which
have been rent away and stand insulated from the hillside, affording a
pathway between it and then; while the places can yet be seen where the
sundered rocks would fit into the craggy hill if there were but a Titan
strong enough to adjust them again.  It is a very picturesque spot, and
the price for seeing it is twopence; though in our case it was included
in the four shillings which we had paid for seeing the cavern.  The
representative men of England are the showmen and the policemen; both
very good people in their way.

Returning to the hotel, J----- and his mother went through the village to
the river, near the railway, where J----- set himself to fishing, and
caught three minnows.  I followed, after a while, to fetch them back, and
we called into one or two of the many shops in the village, which have
articles manufactured of the spar for sale.  Some of these are nothing
short of magnificent.  There was an inlaid table, valued at sixty
guineas, and a splendid ornament for any drawing-room; another, inlaid
with the squares of a chess-board.  We heard of a table in the possession
of the Marquis of Westminster, the value of which is three hundred
guineas.  It would be easy and pleasant to spend a great deal of money in
such things as we saw there; but all our purchases in Matlock did not
amount to more than twenty shillings, invested in brooches, shawl-pins,
little vases and toys, which will be valuable to us as memorials on the
other side of the water.  After this, we visited a petrifying cave, of
which there are several hereabouts.  The process of petrifaction requires
some months, or perhaps a year or two, varying with the size of the
article to be operated upon.  The articles are placed in the cave, under
the drippings from the roof, and a hard deposit is formed upon them, and
sometimes, as in the case of a bird's-nest, causes a curious result,--
every straw and hair being immortalized and stiffened into stone.  
Diderot sat at the table of the empress, and daily held long social
interviews with her, conversing upon politics, philosophy, legislation,
freedom of conscience and the rights of nations.
Catharine was charmed with the enthusiasm and eloquence of her guest,
but she perfectly appreciated the genius and the puerility combined in his
character.

"Diderot," said she, "is a hundred years old in many respects, but
in others he is no more than ten."

The following letter from Catharine to Diderot, written with all the freedom
of the most confidential correspondence, gives a clearer view of the
character of Catharine's mind, and of her energy, than any description
could give.

"Now we are speaking of haughtiness, I have a mind to make a general
confession to you on that head. I have had great successes during this
war; that I am glad of it, you will very naturally conclude. I
find that Russia will be well known by this war. It will be seen how
indefatigable a nation it is; that she possesses men of eminent merit,
and who have all the qualities which go to the forming of heroes. It
will be seen that she is deficient in no resources, but that she can defend
herself and prosecute a war with vigor whenever she is unjustly
attacked.

"Brimful of these ideas, I have never once thought of Catharine, who, at
the age of forty-two, can increase neither in body nor in mind, but,
in the natural order of things, ought to remain, and will remain, as she
is. Do her affairs go on well?

she says, so much the better. If they prosper less, she would employ all
her faculties to put them in a better train.

"This is my ambition, and I have none other. What I tell you, is the
truth. I will go further, and say that, for the sparing of human blood,
I sincerely wish for peace. But this peace is still a long way off,
though the Turks, from different motives, are ardently desirous of it.
Those people know not how to go about it.

"I wish as much for the pacification of the unreasonable contentions of
Poland. I have to do there with brainless heads, each of which, instead
of contributing to the common peace, on the contrary, throws impediments
in the way of it by caprice and levity. My embassador has published
a declaration adapted to open their eyes. But it is to be presumed that
they will rather expose themselves to the last extremity than adopt,
without delay, a wise and consistent rule of conduct. The vortices
of Descartes never existed anywhere but in Poland. There every head is a
vortex turning continually around itself. It is stopped by chance
alone, and never by reason or judgment.

"I have not yet received your _Questions_,[21] or your watches from
Ferney. I have no doubt that the work of your artificers is perfect, since
they work under your eyes. Do not scold your rustics for having sent me
a surplus of watches. The expense of them will not ruin me. It would
be very unfortunate for me if I were so far reduced as not to have,
for sudden emergencies, such small sums whenever I want them.
Judge not, I beseech you, of our finances by those of the other ruined
potentates of Europe. Though we have been engaged in war for three years,
we proceed in our buildings, and every thing else goes on as in a time of
profound peace. It is two years since any new impost was levied. The
war, at present, has its fixed establishment; that once regulated, it
never disturbs the course of other affairs. If we capture another Kesa
or two, the war is paid for.

[Footnote 21: Questions sur l'Encyclopedie.]
"I shall be satisfied with myself whenever I meet with your approbation,
monsieur. I likewise, a few weeks ago, read over again my instructions for
the code, because I then thought peace to be nearer at hand than it is,
and I found that I was right in composing them. I confess that this code
will give me a considerable deal of trouble before it is brought to
that degree of perfection at which I wish to see it. But no matter, it
must be completed.

"Perhaps, in a little time, the khan of the Crimea will be brought to me
in person. I learn, this moment, that he did not cross the sea with the
Turks, but that he remained in the mountains with a very small number
of followers, nearly as was the case with the Pretender, in Scotland,
after the defeat at Culloden. If he comes to me, we will try to
polish him this winter, and, to take my revenge of him, I will make
him dance, and he shall go to the French comedy.

"Just as I was about to fold up this letter, I received yours of the 10th
of July, in which you inform me of the adventure that happened to my
'Instruction'[22] in France. I knew that anecdote, and even the
appendix to it, in consequence of the order of the Duke of Choiseul. I
own that I laughed on reading it in the newspapers, and I found that I
was amply revenged."
[Footnote 22: Her majesty's instruction for a code of laws.]

CHAPTER XXVI.

REIGN OF CATHARINE II.

From 1774 to 1781.

Peace with Turkey.--Court of Catharine II.--Her Personal Appearance
and Habits.--Conspiracy and Rebellion.--Defeat of the Rebels.--Magnanimity
of Catharine II.--Ambition of the Empress.--Court Favorite.--Division of
Russia into Provinces.--Internal Improvements.--New Partition of
Poland.--Death of the Wife of Paul.--Second Marriage of the Grand
Duke.--Splendor of the Russian Court.--Russia and Austria Secretly
Combine to Drive the Turks out of Europe.--The Emperor Joseph II.

In 1774 peace was concluded with Turkey, on terms which added greatly to
the renown and grandeur of Russia. By this treaty the Crimea was severed
from the Ottoman Porte, and declared to be independent. Russia obtained
the free navigation of the Black Sea, the Bosporus and the Dardanelles.
Immense tracts of land, lying on the Euxine, were ceded to Russia, and
the Grand Seignior also paid Catharine a large sum of money to
defray the expenses of the war.

No language can describe the exultation which this treaty created in St.
Petersburg. Eight days were devoted, by order of the empress, to feasts
and rejoicings.

The doors of the prisons were thrown open, and even the Siberian
exiles were permitted to return.

The court of Catharine II. at this period was the most brilliant in Europe.
In no other court was more attention paid to the most polished and
agreeable manners. The expenditure on her court establishment amounted
to nearly four millions of dollars a year. In personal appearance the
empress was endowed with the attractions both of beauty and of queenly
dignity. A cotemporary writer thus describes her:

"She is of that stature which is necessarily requisite to perfect
elegance of form in a lady. She has fine large blue eyes, with eyebrows
and hair of a brownish color. Her mouth is well-proportioned, chin
round, with a forehead regular and open. Her hands and arms are round
and white, and her figure plump. Her bosom is full, her neck high, and
she carries her head with peculiar grace.

"The empress never wears rich clothes except on solemn festivals,
when her head and corset are entirely set with brilliants, and she
wears a crown of diamonds and precious stones.

Her gait is majestic; and, in the whole of her form and manner there is
something so dignified and noble, that if she were to be seen without
ornament or any outward marks of distinction, among a great number of
ladies of rank, she would be immediately esteemed the chief. She seems
born to command, though in her character there is more of liveliness
than of gravity.
She is courteous, gentle, benevolent and outwardly devout."
Like almost every one who has attained distinction, Catharine was very
systematic in the employment of her time. She usually rose at about
five o'clock both in summer and winter; and what seems most remarkable,
prepared her own simple breakfast, as she was not fond of being waited
upon. But a short time was devoted to her toilet. From eight to eleven
in the forenoon she was busy in her cabinet, signing commissions and
issuing orders of various purport. The hour, from eleven to twelve, was
daily devoted to divine worship in her chapel.
Then, until one o'clock, she gave audience to the ministers of the
various departments. From half past one till two she dined. She then
returned to her cabinet, where she was busily employed in cares of state
until four o'clock, when she took an airing in a coach or sledge. At
six she usually exhibited herself for a short time to her subjects at the
theater, and at ten o'clock she retired. Court balls were not
unfrequently given, but the empress never condescended to dance, though
occasionally she would make one at a game of cards.
She, however, took but little interest in the game, being much more
fond of talking with the ladies, generals and ministers who surrounded
her.

Even from these court balls the very sensible empress usually retired,
by a side door, at ten o'clock.

The empress informed herself minutely of every thing which concerned
the administration of government.

Her ministers were merely instruments in her hands executing her imperial
will. All matters relating to the army, the navy, the finances, the
punishment of crime and to foreign affairs, were reported to her by her
ministers, and were guided by her decisions.

There must always be, in every government, an opposition party--that
is, a party who wish to eject from office those in power, that they
themselves may enjoy the loaves and fishes of governmental favor.
This is peculiarly the case in an empire where a large class of haughty
nobles are struggling for the preëminence. Many of the bigoted clergy
were exasperated by the toleration which the empress enjoined, and
they united with the disaffected lords in a conspiracy for a revolution.
The clergy in the provinces had great influence over the unlettered
boors, and the conspiracy soon assumed a very threatening aspect. The
first rising of rebellion was by the wild population scattered along the
banks of the Don. The rebellion was headed by an impostor, who declared
that he was Peter III., and that, having escaped from those who had
attempted his assassination, he had concealed himself for a long time,
waiting for vengeance. This barbaric chieftain, who was called Pugatshef,
very soon found himself at the head of fourteen thousand fierce
warriors, and commenced ravaging oriental Russia. For a season his march
was a constant victory. Many thousand Siberian exiles escaped from
their gloomy realms and joined his standards. So astonishing was his
success, that even Catharine trembled. Pugatshef waged a war of extermination
against the nobles who were the supporters of Catharine, in cold blood
beheading their wives and children, and conferring their titles and estates
upon his followers. The empress found it necessary to rouse all
her energies to meet this peril. She issued a manifesto, which was
circulated through all the towns of the empire, and raised a large
army, which was dispatched to crush the rebellion.

Battle after battle ensued, until, at last, in a decisive conflict, the
hosts of Pugatshef were utterly cut up.

Still, this indefatigable warrior soon raised another army from the
untamed barbarians of the Don, and, rapidly descending the Volga,
attacked, by surprise, some Russian regiments encamped upon its banks,
and routed them with fearful slaughter. The astronomer, Lovitch, a member
of the imperial academy of sciences at St. Petersburg, was, at that time,
under the protection of these regiments, surveying the route for a canal
between the Don and the Volga. Pugatshef ordered his dragoons to thrust
their pikes into the unfortunate man, and raise him upon them into the
air, "in order," said he, "that he may be nearer the stars." They did
this, and then cut him to pieces with their sabers.

The troops of Catharine pursued the rebels, encountered them in some
intricate passes of the mountains, whence escape was impossible, and
overwhelmed them with destruction. Their vigorous leader, leaping from
crag to crag, escaped, swam the Volga, crossed, in solitude, vast
deserts, and made new attempts to rally partisans around him.

But his last hour was sounded. Deserted by all, he was wandering from
place to place, pursued like a wild beast, when some of his own
confederates, basely betraying him, seized him, after a violent
struggle, put him in irons, and delivered him to one of the officers
of the Russian army.
The wretched man, preserving impenetrable silence, was conveyed to Moscow
in an iron cage. Refusing to eat, food was forced down his stomach.
The empress immediately appointed a commission for the trial of the
rebel. She instructed the court to be satisfied with whatever voluntary
confession of his crime he might make, forbidding them to apply the
torture, or to require him to name his accomplices. The culprit was
sentenced to have his hands and feet cut off, and then to be quartered.
By order of the empress, however, he was first beheaded.
Eight of his accomplices were also executed, eighteen underwent the
knout, and were then exiled to Siberia. Thus terminated a rebellion
which cost the lives of more than a hundred thousand men.

Over those wide regions, whose exact boundaries are even now scarcely
known, numerous nations are scattered, quite distinct in language, religion
and customs, and so separated by almost impassable deserts, that they
know but little of each other. These wilds, peopled by war-loving races,
afford the most attractive field for military adventures. The energy
and sagacity with which Catharine crushed this formidable rebellion
added greatly to her renown.

Tranquillity being restored, the empress, in order to crown a general
pardon, forbade any further allusion whatever to be made to the rebellion,
consigning all its painful events to utter oblivion. She even
forbade the publication of the details of the trial, saying,
"I shall keep the depositions of Pugatshef secret, that they may not aggravate
the disgrace of those who spurred him on."
The empress was ambitious to make her influence felt in every European
movement, and she was conscious that, in order to command the respect of
other courts, she must ever have a formidable army at her disposal.
In all the great movements of kings and courts this wonderful woman
performed her part with dignity which no monarch, male or female,
has ever surpassed.

It is strange that it has taken so many centuries for the nations to learn
that peace, not war, enriches realms.

Had Russia abstained from those wars in which she has unnecessarily
engaged, she might now have been the most wealthy and powerful
nation on the globe.

Admitting that there have been many wars which, involving her national
existence, she could not have avoided, still she has squandered countless
millions of money and of lives in battles which were quite unnecessary.
Russia, like the United States, is safe from all attacks from without. Had
Russia employed the yearly earnings of the empire in cultivating the
fields, rearing towns, and in extending the arts of industry and refinement,
infinitely more would have been accomplished for her happiness and renown
than by the most brilliant conquests. But Catharine, in her high
ambition, seemed to be afraid that Europe might forget her, and she was
eager to have her voice heard in the deliberations of every cabinet,
and to have her banners unfurled in the march of every army.

There was an office, in the court of the empress, sanctioned by time in
Russia, which has not existed in any other court in Europe. It perhaps
originated from the fact that for about three fourths of a century Russia
was almost exclusively governed by women. The court favorite was not merely
the prime minister, but the confidential friend and companion of the
empress.

On the day of his installation he received a purse containing one hundred
thousand dollars, and a salary of twelve thousand dollars a month. A
marshal was also commissioned to provide him a table of twenty-four
covers, and to defray all the expenses of his household. The twelve thousand
dollars a month were for what the ladies call _pin money_. The favorite
occupied in the palace an apartment beneath that of the empress, to
which it communicated by a private stair-case. He attended the empress
on all parties of amusement, at the opera, the theater, balls, promenades
and excursions of pleasure, and he was not allowed to leave the palace
without express permission. It was also understood that he should pay
no attention to any lady but the empress.

The year 1775 dawned upon Russia with peace at home and abroad.
Catharine devoted herself anew to the improvement of her subjects in
education and all physical comforts. Prince Gregory Orlof had been for
many years the favorite of the empress, but he was now laid aside, and
Count Potemkin took his place.

Catharine now divided her extensive realms into forty-three great provinces,
over each of which a governor was appointed. These provinces
embraced from six to eight hundred thousand inhabitants.
There was then a subdivision into districts or circles, as they
were called. There were some ten of these districts in each province,
and they contained from forty to sixty thousand inhabitants. An
entire system of government was established for each province, with
its laws and tribunals, that provision might be made for every thing
essential to the improvement and embellishment of the country. The
governors of these provinces were invested with great dignity and
splendor.

The gubernatorial courts, if they may so be called, established centers
of elegance and refinement, which it was hoped would exert a powerful
influence in polishing a people exceedingly rude and uncultivated.
There were also immense advantages derived from the uniform administration
of justice thus established. This new division of the empire was the
most comprehensive reform Russia had yet experienced.
Thus the most extensive empire on the globe, with its geographical
divisions so vast and dissimilar, was cemented into one homogeneous body
politic.

Until this great reform the inhabitants of the most distant provinces had
been compelled to travel to Petersburg and Moscow in their appeals to the
tribunals of justice. Now there were superior courts in all the provinces,
and inferior courts in all the districts. In all important cases
there was an appeal to the council of the empress. Russian ships, laden
with the luxuries of the Mediterranean, passed through the Dardanelles
and the Bosporus, and landed their precious freights upon the shores of
Azof, from whence they were transported into the heart of Russia,
thus opening a very lucrative commerce.

The Polish nobles, a very turbulent and intractable race of men, were
overawed by the power of Catharine, and the masses of the Polish
people were doubtless benefited by their transference to new
masters.
Russia was far more benignant in its treatment of the conquered
provinces, than were her banditti accomplices, Prussia and Austria.
The road to China, traversed by caravans, was long and perilous,
through pathless and inhospitable wilds, where, for leagues, no
inhabitant could be seen, and yet where a fertile soil and a genial
clime promised, to the hand of industry, all the comforts and
luxuries of life. All along this road she planted villages, and,
by the most alluring offers, induced settlers to establish themselves
on all portions of the route. Large sums of money were expended in
rendering the rivers navigable.
In the year 1776, the grand duchess, consort of Paul, who was heir
to the throne, died in childbirth, and was buried in the same grave
with her babe. About the same time Prince Henry of Prussia visited
the Russian court to confer with Catharine upon some difficulties
which had arisen in the demarcations of Poland. It will be remembered
that in the division which had now taken place, the whole kingdom
had not been seized, but a remnant had been left as the humble
patrimony of Poniatowski, the king. In this interview with the
empress, Prince Henry said,
"Madam, I see one sure method of obviating all difficulty. It may
perhaps be displeasing to you on account of Poniatowski.[23] But
you will nevertheless do well to give it your approbation, since
compensations may be offered to that monarch of greater value to
him than the throne which is continually tottering under him. The
remainder of Poland must be partitioned."
[Footnote 23: Poniatowski had been formerly a favorite of the
empress.]
The empress cordially embraced the plan, and the annihilation of
Poland was decreed. It was necessary to move slowly and with caution
in the execution of the plan. In the meantime, as the grand duchess
had died, leaving no heir to the empire, the empress deemed it a
matter of the utmost moment to secure another wife for the Grand
Duke Paul, lest Russia should be exposed to the perils of a disputed
succession. Natalia was hardly cold in her grave ere the empress
proposed to Prince Henry, that his niece, the princess of Wirtemberg,
should become the spouse of the grand duke.It is very striking in appearance, being ornamented with a
balustrade, on which are large globes of stone, and a great lion and
unicorn curiously sculptured on the opposite side.  While we waited here,
staring about us, a man approached, and offered to show us the interior.
He seemed to be in charge of the College buildings.  We accepted his
offer, and were led first up this stone staircase, and into a large and
stately hall, panelled high towards the ceiling with dark oak, and
adorned with elaborately carved cornices, and other wood-work.  There was
a long reading-table towards one end of the hall, on which were laid
pamphlets and periodicals; and a venerable old gentleman, with white head
and bowed shoulders, sat there reading a newspaper.  This was the
Principal of the University, and as he looked towards us graciously, yet
as if expecting some explanation of our entrance, I approached and
apologized for intruding on the plea of our being strangers and anxious
to see the College.  He made a courteous response, though in exceedingly
decayed and broken accents, being now eighty-six years old, and gave us
free leave to inspect everything that was to be seen.  This hall was
erected two years after the Restoration of Charles II., and has been the
scene, doubtless, of many ceremonials and high banquetings since that
period; and, among other illustrious personages, Queen Victoria has
honored it with her presence.  Thence we went into several recitation or
lecture rooms in various parts of the buildings; but they were all of an
extreme plainness, very unlike the rich old Gothic libraries and chapels
and halls which we saw in Oxford.  Indeed, the contrast between this
Scotch severity and that noble luxuriance, and antique majesty, and rich
and sweet repose of Oxford, is very remarkable, both within the edifices
and without.  But we saw one or two curious things,--for instance, a
chair of mahogany, elaborately carved with the arms of Scotland and other
devices, and having a piece of the kingly stone of Scone inlaid in its
seat.  This chair is used by the Principal on certain high occasions, and
we ourselves, of course, sat down in it.  Our guide assigned to it a date
preposterously earlier than could have been the true one, judging either
by the character of the carving or by the fact that mahogany has not been
known or used much more than a century and a half.

Afterwards he led us into the Divinity Hall, where, he said, there were
some old portraits of historic people, and among them an original picture
of Mary, Queen of Scots.  There was, indeed, a row of old portraits at
each end of the apartment,--for instance, Zachariah Boyd, who wrote the
rhyming version of the Bible, which is still kept, safe from any critical
eye, in the library of the University to which he presented this, besides
other more valuable benefactions,--for which they have placed his bust in
a niche in the principal quadrangle; also, John Knox makes one of the row
of portraits; and a dozen or two more of Scotch worthies, all very dark
and dingy.  As to the picture of Mary of Scotland, it proved to be not
hers at all, but a picture of Queen Mary, the consort of William III.,
whose portrait, together with that of her sister, Queen Anne, hangs in
the same row.  We told our guide this, but he seemed unwilling to accept
it as a fact.  There is a museum belonging to the University; but this,
for some reason or other, could not be shown to us just at this time, and
there was little else to show.  We just looked at the gardens, but,
though of large extent, they are so meagre and bare--so unlike that
lovely shade of the Oxford gardens--that we did not care to make further
acquaintance with them.

Then we went back to our hotel, and if there were not already more than
enough of description, both past and to come, I should describe George's
Square, on one side of which the hotel is situated.  A tall column rises
in the grassy centre of it, lifting far into the upper air a fine statue
of Sir Walter Scott, which we saw to great advantage last night, relieved
against the sunset sky; and there are statues of Sir John Moore, a native
of Glasgow, and of James Watt, at corners of the square.  Glasgow is
certainly a noble city.

After lunch we embarked on board the steamer, and came up the Clyde.  Ben
Lomond, and other Highland hills, soon appeared on the horizon; we passed
Douglas Castle on a point of land projecting into the river; and, passing
under the precipitous height of Dumbarton Castle, which we had long
before seen, came to our voyage's end at this village, where we have put
up at the Elephant Hotel.


July 2d.--After tea, not far from seven o'clock, it being a beautiful
decline of day, we set out to walk to


DUMBARTON CASTLE,


which stands apart from the town, and is said to have been once
surrounded by the waters of the Clyde.  The rocky height on which the
castle stands is a very striking object, bulging up out of the Clyde,
with abrupt decision, to the elevation of five hundred feet.  The summit
is cloven in twain, the cleft reaching nearly to the bottom on the side
towards the river, but not coming down so deeply on the landward side.
It is precipitous all around; and wherever the steepness admits, or does
not make assault impossible, there are gray ramparts round the hill, with
cannon threatening the lower world.  Our path led its beneath one of
these precipices several hundred feet sheer down, and with an ivied
fragment of ruined wall at the top.  A soldier who sat by the wayside
told us that this was called the "Lover's Leap," because a young girl, in
some love-exigency, had once jumped down from it, and came safely to the
bottom.  We reached the castle gate, which is near the shore of the
Clyde, and there found another artillery soldier, who guided us through
the fortress.  He said that there were now but about a dozen soldiers
stationed in the castle, and no officer.

The lowest battery looks towards the river, and consists of a few
twelve-pound cannon; but probably the chief danger of attack was from the
land, and the chief pains have been taken to render the castle defensible
in that quarter.  There are flights of stone stairs ascending up through
the natural avenue, in the cleft of the double-summited rock; and about
midway there is an arched doorway, beneath which there used to be a
portcullis,--so that if an enemy had won the lower part of the fortress,
the upper portion was still inaccessible.  Where the cleft of the rock
widens into a gorge, there are several buildings, old, but not
appertaining to the ancient castle, which has almost entirely
disappeared.  We ascended both summits, and, reaching the loftiest point
on the right, stood upon the foundation of a tower that dates back to the
fifth century, whence we had a glorious prospect of Highlands and
Lowlands; the chief object being Ben Lomond, with its great dome, among a
hundred other blue and misty hills, with the sun going down over them;
and, in another direction, the Clyde, winding far downward through the
plain, with the headland of Dumbeck close at hand, and Douglas Castle at
no great distance.  On the ramparts beneath us the soldier pointed out
the spot where Wallace scaled the wall, climbing an apparently
inaccessible precipice, and taking the castle.  The principal parts of
the ancient castle appear to have been on the other and lower summit of
the hill, and thither we now went, and traced the outline of its wall,
although none of it is now remaining.  Here is the magazine, still
containing some powder, and here is a battery of eighteen-pound guns,
with pyramids of balls, all in readiness against an assault; which,
however, hardly any turn of human affairs can hereafter bring about.  The
appearance of a fortress is kept up merely for ceremony's sake; and these
cannon have grown antiquated.  Moreover, as the soldier told us, they are
seldom or never fired, even for purposes of rejoicing or salute, because
their thunder produces the singular effect of depriving the garrison of
water.  There is a large tank, and the concussion causes the rifts of the
stone to open, and thus lets the water out.  Above this battery, and
elsewhere about the fortress, there are warders' turrets of stone,
resembling great pepper-boxes.  When Dr. Johnson visited the castle, he
introduced his bulky person into one of these narrow receptacles, and
found it difficult to get out again.  A gentleman who accompanied him was
just stepping forward to offer his assistance, but Boswell whispered him
to take no notice, lest Johnson should be offended; so they left him to
get out as he could.  He did finally extricate himself, else we might
have seen his skeleton in the turret.  Boswell does not tell this story,
which seems to have been handed down by local tradition.

The less abrupt declivities of the rock are covered with grass, and
afford food for a few sheep, who scamper about the heights, and seem to
have attained the dexterity of goats in clambering.  I never knew a purer
air than this seems to be, nor a lovelier golden sunset.

Descending into the gorge again, we went into the armory, which is in one
of the buildings occupying the space between the two hill-tops.  It
formerly contained a large collection of arms; but these have been
removed to the Tower of London, and there are now only some tattered
banners, of which I do not know the history, and some festoons of
pistols, and grenades, shells, and grape and canister shot, kept merely
as curiosities; and, far more interesting than the above, a few
battle-axes, daggers, and spear-heads from the field of Bannockburn; and,
more interesting still, the sword of William Wallace.  It is a
formidable-looking weapon, made for being swayed with both hands, and,
with its hilt on the floor, reached about to my chin; but the young girl
who showed us the armory said that about nine inches had been broken off
the point.  The blade was not massive, but somewhat thin, compared with
its great length; and I found that I could blandish it, using both hands,
with perfect ease.  It is two-edged, without any gaps, and is quite brown
and lustreless with old rust, from point to hilt.

These were all the memorables of our visit to Dumbarton Castle, which is
a most interesting spot, and connected with a long series of historical
events.  It was first besieged by the Danes, and had a prominent share in
all the warfare of Scotland, so long as the old warlike times and manners
lasted.  Our soldier was very intelligent and courteous, but, as usual
with these guides, was somewhat apocryphal in his narrative; telling us
that Mary, Queen of Scots, was confined here before being taken to
England, and that the cells in which she then lived are still extant,
under one of the ramparts.  The fact is, she was brought here when a
child of six years old, before going to France, and doubtless scrambled
up and down these heights as freely and merrily as the sheep we saw.

We now returned to our hotel, a very nice one, and found the street of
Dumbarton all alive in the summer evening with the sports of children and
the gossip of grown people.  There was almost no night, for at twelve
o'clock there was still a golden daylight, and Yesterday, before it died,
must have met the Morrow.

In the lower part of the fortress there is a large sun-dial of stone,
which was made by a French officer imprisoned here during the Peninsular
war.  It still numbers faithfully the hours that are sunny, and it is a
lasting memorial of him, in the stronghold of his enemies.


INVERANNAN.


Evening.--After breakfast at Dumbarton, I went out to look at the town,
which is of considerable size, and possesses both commerce and
manufactures.  There was a screw-steamship at the pier, and many
sailor-looking people were seen about the streets.  There are very few
old houses, though still the town retains an air of antiquity which one
does not well see how to account for, when everywhere there is a modern
front, and all the characteristics of a street built to-day.  Turning
from the main thoroughfare I crossed a bridge over the Clyde, and gained
from it the best view of the cloven crag of Dumbarton Castle that I had
yet found.  The two summits are wider apart, more fully relieved from
each other, than when seen from other points; and the highest ascends
into a perfect pyramid, the lower one being obtusely rounded.  There seem
to be iron-works, or some kind of manufactory, on the farther side of the
bridge; and I noticed a quaint, chateau-like mansion, with hanging
turrets standing apart from the street, probably built by some person
enriched by business.

We left Dumbarton at noon, taking the rail to Balloch, and the steamer to
the head of Loch Lomond.

Wild mountain scenery is not very good to describe, nor do I think any
distinct impressions are ever conveyed by such attempts; so I mean to be
brief in what I saw about this part of our tour, especially as I suspect
that I have said whatever I knew how to say in the record of my former
visit to the Highlands.  As for Loch Lomond, it lies amidst very striking
scenery, being poured in among the gorges of steep and lofty mountains,
which nowhere stand aside to give it room, but, on the contrary, do their
best to shut it in.  It is everywhere narrow, compared with its length of
thirty miles; but it is the beauty of a lake to be of no greater width
than to allow of the scenery of one of its shores being perfectly enjoyed
from the other.  The scenery of the Highlands, so far as I have seen it,
cannot properly be called rich, but stern and impressive, with very hard
outlines, which are unsoftened, mostly, by any foliage, though at this
season they are green to their summits.  They have hardly flesh enough to
cover their bones,--hardly earth enough to lie over their rocky
substance,--as may be seen by the minute variety,--the notched and jagged
appearance of the profile of their sides and tops; this being caused by
the scarcely covered rocks wherewith these great hills are heaped
together.

Our little steamer stopped at half a dozen places on its voyage up the
lake, most of them being stations where hotels have been established.
Morally, the Highlands must have been more completely sophisticated by
the invention of railways and steamboats than almost any other part of
the world; but physically it can have wrought no great change.  These
mountains, in their general aspect, must be very much the same as they
were thousands of years ago; for their sides never were capable of
cultivation, nor even with such a soil and so bleak an atmosphere could
they have been much more richly wooded than we see them now.  I saw both
proofs and free confessions, and I know not what insensible mark upon
the miserable creature: I examined and talked with her and the rest as
much and as long as I would, and gave the best and soundest attention I
could, and I am not a man to suffer my judgment to be made captive by
prepossession. In the end, and in all conscience, I should rather have
prescribed them hellebore than hemlock;
"Captisque res magis mentibus, quam consceleratis similis visa;"
["The thing was rather to be attributed to madness, than malice." ("The
thing seemed to resemble minds possessed rather than guilty.") --Livy,
viii, 18.]
justice has its corrections proper for such maladies. As to the oppositions
and arguments that worthy men have made to me, both there, and often in
other places, I have met with none that have convinced me, and that
have not admitted a more likely solution than their conclusions.
It is true, indeed, that the proofs and reasons that are founded upon
experience and fact, I do not go about to untie, neither have they any
end; I often cut them, as Alexander did the Gordian knot. After all,
'tis setting a man's conjectures at a very high price upon them to cause
a man to be roasted alive.

We are told by several examples, as Praestantius of his father, that being
more profoundly, asleep than men usually are, he fancied himself to be a
mare, and that he served the soldiers for a sumpter; and what he fancied
himself to be, he really proved. If sorcerers dream so materially;
if dreams can sometimes so incorporate themselves with effects, still I
cannot believe that therefore our will should be accountable to justice;
which I say as one who am neither judge nor privy councillor, and who
think myself by many degrees unworthy so to be, but a man of the common
sort, born and avowed to the obedience of the public reason, both
in its words and acts. He who should record my idle talk as being to the
prejudice of the pettiest law, opinion, or custom of his parish, would
do himself a great deal of wrong, and me much more; for, in what I say,
I warrant no other certainty, but that 'tis what I had then in my
thought, a tumultuous and wavering thought. All I say is by way of discourse,
and nothing by way of advice:

"Nec me pudet, ut istos fateri nescire, quod nesciam;"
["Neither am I ashamed, as they are, to confess my ignorance of what
I do not know."--Cicero, Tusc. Quaes., i. 25.]
I should not speak so boldly, if it were my due to be believed; and so I
told a great man, who complained of the tartness and contentiousness
of my exhortations. Perceiving you to be ready and prepared on one part,
I propose to you the other, with all the diligence and care I can, to
clear your judgment, not to compel it. God has your hearts in His hands,
and will furnish you with the means of choice. I am not so presumptuous
even as to desire that my opinions should bias you--in a thing of so
great importance: my fortune has not trained them up to so potent
and elevated conclusions.

Truly, I have not only a great many humours, but also a great many
opinions, that I would endeavour to make my son dislike, if I had
one.

What, if the truest are not always the most commodious to man, being of
so wild a composition?

Whether it be to the purpose or not, tis no great matter: 'tis a common
proverb in Italy, that he knows not Venus in her perfect sweetness who
has never lain with a lame mistress. Fortune, or some particular incident,
long ago put this saying into the mouths of the people; and the same is
said of men as well as of women; for the queen of the Amazons answered the
Scythian who courted her to love, "Lame men perform best." In this
feminine republic, to evade the dominion of the males, they lamed them
in their infancy--arms, legs, and other members that gave them advantage
over them, and only made use of them in that wherein we, in these parts
of the world, make use of them. I should have been apt to think; that the
shuffling pace of the lame mistress added some new pleasure to the work,
and some extraordinary titillation to those who were at the sport; but
I have lately learnt that ancient philosophy has itself determined it,
which says that the legs and thighs of lame women, not receiving, by
reason of their imperfection, their due aliment, it falls out that
the genital parts above are fuller and better supplied and much more
vigorous; or else that this defect, hindering exercise, they who are
troubled with it less dissipate their strength, and come more entire to
the sports of Venus; which also is the reason why the Greeks decried
the women-weavers as being more hot than other women by reason of
their sedentary trade, which they carry on without any great exercise
of the body.

What is it we may not reason of at this rate? I might also say of these,
that the jaggling about whilst so sitting at work, rouses and
provokes their desire, as the swinging and jolting of coaches does that
of our ladies.

Do not these examples serve to make good what I said at first: that our
reasons often anticipate the effect, and have so infinite an extent of
jurisdiction that they judge and exercise themselves even on inanity itself
and non-existency?

Besides the flexibility of our invention to forge reasons of all sorts
of dreams, our imagination is equally facile to receive impressions of
falsity by very frivolous appearances; for, by the sole authority of the
ancient and common use of this proverb, I have formerly made myself believe
that I have had more pleasure in a woman by reason she was not straight,
and accordingly reckoned that deformity amongst her graces.

Torquato Tasso, in the comparison he makes betwixt France and Italy, says
that he has observed that our legs are generally smaller than those of
the Italian gentlemen, and attributes the cause of it to our being
continually on horseback; which is the very same cause from which
Suetonius draws a quite opposite conclusion; for he says, on the
contrary, that Germanicus had made his legs bigger by the continuation
of the same exercise.

Nothing is so supple and erratic as our understanding; it is the shoe of
Theramenes, fit for all feet. It is double and diverse, and the matters
are double and diverse too. "Give me a drachm of silver," said a Cynic
philosopher to Antigonus. "That is not a present befitting a king," replied
he. "Give me then a talent," said the other. "That is not a present
befitting a Cynic."
"Seu plures calor ille vias et caeca relaxat Spiramenta, novas veniat
qua succus in herbas Seu durat magis, et venas astringit hiantes; Ne
tenues pluviae, rapidive potentia colic Acrior, aut Boreae penetrabile
frigus adurat."
["Whether the heat opens more passages and secret pores through which
the sap may be derived into the new-born herbs; or whether it rather hardens
and binds the gaping veins that the small showers and keen influence of
the violent sun or penetrating cold of Boreas may not hurt them."--Virg.,
Georg., i. 89.]
"Ogni medaglia ha il suo rovescio."
["Every medal has its reverse."--Italian Proverb.]
This is the reason why Clitomachus said of old that Carneades had
outdone the labours of Hercules, in having eradicated consent from
men, that is to say, opinion and the courage of judging. This so vigorous
fancy of Carneades sprang, in my opinion, anciently from the impudence
of those who made profession of knowledge and their immeasurable
self-conceit.
AEsop was set to sale with two other slaves; the buyer asked the first
of these what he could do; he, to enhance his own value, promised mountains
and marvels, saying he could do this and that, and I know not what; the
second said as much of himself or more: when it came to AEsop's turn, and
that he was also asked what he could do; "Nothing," said he, "for these
two have taken up all before me; they know everything." So has it
happened in the school of philosophy: the pride of those who attributed
the capacity of all things to the human mind created in others, out
of despite and emulation, this opinion, that it is capable of
nothing: the one maintain the same extreme in ignorance that the
others do in knowledge; to make it undeniably manifest that man is
immoderate throughout, and can never stop but of necessity and the
want of ability to proceed further.

CHAPTER XII
OF PHYSIOGNOMY
Almost all the opinions we have are taken on authority and trust; and
'tis not amiss; we could not choose worse than by ourselves in so
weak an age. That image of Socrates' discourses, which his friends have
transmitted to us, we approve upon no other account than a reverence
to public sanction: 'tis not according to our own knowledge; they are
not after our way; if anything of the kind should spring up now, few men
would value them. We discern no graces that are not pointed and puffed out
and inflated by art; such as glide on in their own purity and simplicity
easily escape so gross a sight as ours; they have a delicate and
concealed beauty, such as requires a clear and purified sight to discover
its secret light. Is not simplicity, as we take it, cousin-german to folly
and a quality of reproach?

Socrates makes his soul move a natural and common motion: a peasant
said this; a woman said that; he has never anybody in his mouth but carters,
joiners, cobblers, and masons; his are inductions and similitudes drawn
from the most common and known actions of men; every one understands him.
We should never have recognised the nobility and splendour of his admirable
conceptions under so mean a form; we, who think all things low and
flat that are not elevated, by learned doctrine, and who discern no riches
but in pomp and show.

This world of ours is only formed for ostentation: men are only
puffed up with wind, and are bandied to and fro like tennis-balls.

He proposed to himself no vain and idle fancies; his design was to
furnish us with precepts and things that more really and fitly serve to
the use of life;
"Servare modum, finemque tenere, Naturamque sequi."
["To keep a just mean, to observe a just limit, and to follow Nature."--Lucan,
ii. 381.]
He was also always one and the same, and raised himself, not by starts but
by complexion, to the highest pitch of vigour; or, to say better, mounted
not at all, but rather brought down, reduced, and subjected all asperities
and difficulties to his original and natural condition; for in Cato
'tis most manifest that 'tis a procedure extended far beyond the common
ways of men: in the brave exploits of his life, and in his death, we find
him always mounted upon the great horse; whereas the other ever creeps
upon the ground, and with a gentle and ordinary pace, treats of the most
useful matters, and bears himself, both at his death and in the rudest
difficulties that could present themselves, in the ordinary way of human
life.

It has fallen out well that the man most worthy to be known and to be
presented to the world for example should be he of whom we have the most
certain knowledge; he has been pried into by the most clear-sighted
men that ever were; the testimonies we have of him are admirable both in
fidelity and fulness. 'Tis a great thing that he was able so to order
the pure imaginations of a child, that, without altering or wresting
them, he thereby produced the most beautiful effects of our soul: he
presents it neither elevated nor rich; he only represents it sound, but
assuredly with a brisk and full health. By these common and natural
springs, by these ordinary and popular fancies, without being moved or
put out, he set up not only the most regular, but the most high and
vigorous beliefs, actions, and manners that ever were.

'Tis he who brought again from heaven, where she lost her time, human wisdom,
to restore her to man with whom her most just and greatest business
lies.
See him plead before his judges; observe by what reasons he rouses his
courage to the hazards of war; with what arguments he fortifies his
patience against calumny, tyranny, death, and the perverseness of his
wife: you will find nothing in all this borrowed from arts and
sciences:
the simplest may there discover their own means and strength; 'tis not
possible more to retire or to creep more low. He has done human
nature a great kindness in showing it how much it can do of itself.

We are all of us richer than we think we are; but we are taught to borrow
and to beg, and brought up more to make use of what is another's than
of our own. Man can in nothing fix himself to his actual necessity:
of pleasure, wealth, and power, he grasps at more than he can hold; his
greediness is incapable of moderation. And I find that in curiosity of
knowing he is the same; he cuts himself out more work than he can
do, and more than he needs to do: extending the utility of knowledge
to the full of its matter:
"Ut omnium rerum, sic litterarum quoque, intemperantia laboramus."

["We carry intemperance into the study of literature, as well as
into everything else."

--Seneca, Ep., 106.]
And Tacitus had reason to commend the mother of Agricola for having
restrained her son in his too violent appetite for learning.

Tis a good, if duly considered, which has in it, as the other goods of men
have, a great deal of vanity and weakness, proper and natural to
itself, and that costs very dear. Its acquisition is far more hazardous
than that of all other meat or drink; for, as to other things,
what we have bought we carry home in some vessel, and there have full
leisure to examine our purchase, how much we shall eat or drink of it, and
when: but sciences we can, at the very first, stow into no other vessel
than the soul; we swallow them in buying, and return from the market,
either already infected or amended: there are some that only burden and
overcharge the stomach, instead of nourishing; and, moreover, some that,
under colour of curing, poison us. I have been pleased, in places where I
have been, to see men in devotion vow ignorance as well as chastity,
poverty, and penitence: 'tis also a gelding of our unruly appetites,
to blunt this cupidity that spurs us on to the study of books, and to
deprive the soul of this voluptuous complacency that tickles us with the
opinion of knowledge: and 'tis plenarily to accomplish the vow of
poverty, to add unto it that of the mind. We need little doctrine to
live at our ease; and Socrates teaches us that this is in us, and the
way how to find it, and the manner how to use it: All our sufficiency
which exceeds the natural is well-nigh superfluous and vain: 'tis much if
it does not rather burden and cumber us than do us good:

"Paucis opus est literis ad mentem bonam:"
["Little learning is needed to form a sound mind." --Seneca, Ep., 106.]

'tis a feverish excess of the mind; a tempestuous and unquiet instrument.

Do but recollect yourself, and you will find in yourself natural arguments
against death, true, and the fittest to serve you in time of
necessity: 'tis they that make a peasant, and whole nations, die
with as much firmness as a philosopher.

Should I have died less cheerfully before I had read Cicero's Tusculan
Quastiones? I believe not; and when I find myself at the best, I perceive
that my tongue is enriched indeed, but my courage little or nothing
elevated by them; that is just as nature framed it at first, and defends
itself against the conflict only after a natural and ordinary way. Books
have not so much served me for instruction as exercise. What if knowledge,
trying to arm us with new defences against natural inconveniences, has
more imprinted in our fancies their weight and greatness, than her reasons
and subtleties to secure us from them? They are subtleties, indeed,
with which she often alarms us to little purpose. Do but observe how many
slight and frivolous, and, if nearly examined, incorporeal arguments,
the closest and wisest authors scatter about one good one: they are but
verbal quirks and fallacies to amuse and gull us: but forasmuch as it may
be with some profit, I will sift them no further; many of that
sort are here and there dispersed up and down this book, either borrowed
or by imitation.
Therefore one ought to take a little heed not to call that force which
is only a pretty knack of writing, and that solid which is only sharp,
or that good which is only fine:
"Quae magis gustata quam potata, delectant,"
["Which more delight in the tasting than in being drunk."

--Cicero, Tusc. Quaes., v. 5.]
everything that pleases does not nourish:

"Ubi non ingenii, sed animi negotium agitur."
["Where the question is not about the wit, but about the soul." --Seneca,
Ep., 75.]
To see the trouble that Seneca gives himself to fortify himself against
death; to see him so sweat and pant to harden and encourage himself, and
bustle so long upon this perch, would have lessened his reputation with
me, had he not very bravely held himself at the last. His so ardent and
frequent agitations discover that he was in himself impetuous and
passionate,
"Magnus animus remissius loquitur, et securius . . .
non est alius ingenio, alius ammo color;"
["A great courage speaks more calmly and more securely. There is not one
complexion for the wit and another for the mind." --Seneca, Ep. 114, 115]

he must be convinced at his own expense; and he in some sort discovers
that he was hard pressed by his enemy. Plutarch's way, by how much it is
more disdainful and farther stretched, is, in my opinion, so much more
manly and persuasive: and I am apt to believe that his soul had
more assured and more regular motions. The one more sharp, pricks and
makes us start, and more touches the soul; the other more constantly solid,
forms, establishes, and supports us, and more touches the understanding.

That ravishes the judgment, this wins it. I have likewise seen other
writings, yet more reverenced than these, that in the representation of
the conflict they maintain against the temptations of the flesh, paint
them, so sharp, so powerful and invincible, that we ourselves, who
are of the common herd, are as much to wonder at the strangeness and unknown
force of their temptation, as at the resisting it.

To what end do we so arm ourselves with this harness of science? Let
us look down upon the poor people that we see scattered upon the
face of the earth, prone and intent upon their business, that neither
know Aristotle nor Cato, example nor precept; from these nature
every day extracts effects of constancy and patience, more pure and
manly than those we so inquisitively study in the schools: how many
do I ordinarily see who slight poverty?

how many who desire to die, or who die without alarm or regret? He who is
now digging in my garden, has this morning buried his father or his son.
The very names by which they call diseases sweeten and mollify the
sharpness of them: the phthisic is with them no more than a cough,
dysentery but a looseness, the pleurisy but a stitch; and, as they
gently name them, so they patiently endure them; they are very great
and grievous indeed when they hinder their ordinary labour; they never
keep their beds but to die:

"Simplex illa et aperta virtus in obscuram et solertem scientiam versa
est."
["That overt and simple virtue is converted into an obscure and subtle
science."--Seneca, Ep., 95.]
I was writing this about the time when a great load of our intestine
troubles for several months lay with all its weight upon me; I had
the enemy at my door on one side, and the freebooters, worse enemies,
on the other, 
"Non armis, sed vitiis, certatur;"
["The fight is not with arms, but with vices."

--Seneca, Ep. 95.]
and underwent all sorts of military injuries at once:

"Hostis adest dextra laevaque a parte timendus.
Vicinoque malo terret utrumque latus."
["Right and left a formidable enemy is to be feared, and threatens me
on both sides with impending danger."--Ovid, De Ponto, i. 3, 57.]
A monstrous war! Other wars are bent against strangers, this against
itself, destroying itself with its own poison. It is of so malignant
and ruinous a nature, that it ruins itself with the rest; and with
its own rage mangles and tears itself to pieces. We more often see
it dissolve of itself than through scarcity of any necessary thing
or by force of the enemy. All discipline evades it; it comes to
compose sedition, and is itself full of it; would chastise disobedience,
and itself is the example; and, employed for the defence of the
laws, rebels against its own. What a condition are we in!It presented a very desolate prospect.  The walk back to
the Trosachs showed me Ben Venue and Ben An under new aspects,--the bare
summit of the latter rising in a perfect pyramid, whereas from other
points of view it looks like quite a different mountain.  Sometimes a
gleam of sunshine came out upon the rugged side of Ben Venue, but his
prevailing mood, like that of the rest of the landscape, was stern and
gloomy.  I wish I could give an idea of the variety of surface upon one
of these hillsides,--so bulging out and hollowed in, so bare where the
rock breaks through, so shaggy in other places with heath, and then,
perhaps, a thick umbrage of birch, oak, and ash ascending from the base
high upward.  When I think I have described them, I remember quite a
different aspect, and find it equally true, and yet lacking something to
make it the whole or an adequate truth.

J----- had gone with me part of the way, but stopped to fish with a
pin-hook in Loch Achray, which bordered along our path.  When I returned,
I found him much elated at having caught a fish, which, however, had got
away, carrying his pin-hook along with it.  Then he had amused himself
with taking some lizards by the tail, and had collected several in a
small hollow of the rocks.  We now walked home together, and at half past
three we took our seats in a genuine old-fashioned stage-coach, of which
there are few specimens now to be met with.  The coachman was smartly
dressed in the Queen's scarlet, and was a very pleasant and affable
personage, conducting himself towards the passengers with courteous
authority.  Inside we were four, including J-----, but on the top there
were at least a dozen, and I would willingly have been there too, but had
taken an inside seat, under apprehension of rain, and was not allowed to
change it.  Our drive was not marked by much describable incident.  On
changing horses at Callender, we alighted, and saw Ben Ledi behind us,
making a picturesque background to the little town, which seems to be the
meeting-point of the Highlands and Lowlands.  We again changed horses at
Doune, an old town, which would doubtless have been well worth seeing,
had time permitted.  Thence we kept on till the coach drew up at a
spacious hotel, where we alighted, fancying that we had reached Stirling,
which was to have been our journey's end; but, after fairly establishing
ourselves, we found that it was the


BRIG OF ALLAN.


The place is three miles short of Stirling.  Nevertheless, we did not
much regret the mistake, finding that the Brig of Allan is the principal
Spa of Scotland, and a very pleasant spot, to all outward appearance.
After tea we walked out, both up and down the village street, and across
the bridge, and up a gentle eminence beyond it, whence we had a fine view
of a glorious plain, out of which rose several insulated headlands.  One
of these was the height on which stands Stirling Castle, and which
reclines on the plain like a hound or a lion or a sphinx, holding the
castle on the highest part, where its head should be.  A mile or two
distant from this picturesque hill rises another, still more striking,
called the Abbey Craig, on which is a ruin, and where is to be built the
monument to William Wallace.  I cannot conceive a nobler or more fitting
pedestal.  The sullenness of the day had vanished, the air was cool but
invigorating, and the cloud scenery was as fine as that below it. . . .
Though it was nearly ten o'clock, the boys of the village were in full
shout and play, for these long and late summer evenings keep the children
out of bed interminably.


STIRLING.


July 7th.--We bestirred ourselves early this morning, . . . . and took
the rail for Stirling before eight.  It is but a few minutes' ride, so
that doubtless we were earlier on the field than if we had slept at
Stirling.  After our arrival our first call was at the post-office, where
I found a large package containing letters from America, but none from
U----.  We then went to a bookseller's shop, and bought some views of
Stirling and the neighborhood; and it is surprising what a quantity and
variety of engravings there are of every noted place that we have
visited.  You seldom find two sets alike.  It is rather nauseating to
find that what you came to see has already been looked at in all its
lights, over and over again, with thousand-fold repetition; and, beyond
question, its depictment in words has been attempted still oftener than
with the pencil.  It will be worth while to go back to America, were it
only for the chance of finding a still virgin scene.

We climbed the steep slope of the Castle Hill, sometimes passing an
antique-looking house, with a high, notched gable, perhaps with an
ornamented front, until we came to the sculptures and battlemented
wall, with an archway, that stands just below the castle. . . . A
shabby-looking man now accosted us, and could hardly be shaken off.  I
have met with several such boors in my experience of sight-seeing.  He
kept along with us, in spite of all hints to the contrary, and insisted
on pointing out objects of interest.  He showed us a house in Broad
Street, below the castle and cathedral, which he said had once been
inhabited by Henry Darnley, Queen Mary's husband.  There was little or
nothing peculiar in its appearance; a large, gray, gabled house standing
lengthwise to the street, with three windows in the roof, and connected
with other houses on each side.  Almost directly across the street, he
pointed to an archway, through the side of a house, and, peeping through
it, we found a soldier on guard in a court-yard, the sides of which were
occupied by an old mansion of the Argyle family, having towers at the
corners, with conical tops, like those reproduced in the hotel at the
Trosachs.  It is now occupied as a military hospital.  Shaking off our
self-inflicted guide, we now made our way to the castle parade, and to
the gateway, where a soldier with a tremendously red nose and two medals
at once took charge of us.

Beyond all doubt, I have written quite as good a description of the
castle and Carse of Stirling in a former portion of my journal as I can
now write.  We passed through the outer rampart of Queen Anne; through
the old round gate-tower of an earlier day, and beneath the vacant arch
where the portcullis used to fall, thus reaching the inner region, where
stands the old palace on one side, and the old Parliament House on the
other.  The former looks aged, ragged, and rusty, but makes a good
appearance enough pictorially, being adorned all round about with
statues, which may have been white marble once, but are as gray as
weather-beaten granite now, and look down from between the windows above
the basement story.  A photograph would give the idea of very rich
antiquity, but as it really stands, looking on a gravelled court-yard,
and with "CANTEEN" painted on one of its doors, the spectator does not
find it very impressive.  The great hall of this palace is now
partitioned off into two or three rooms, and the whole edifice is
arranged to serve as barracks.  Of course, no trace of ancient
magnificence, if anywise destructible, can be left in the interior.  We
were not shown into this palace, nor into the Parliament House, nor into
the tower, where King James stabbed the Earl of Douglas.  When I was here
a year ago, I went up the old staircase and into the room where the
murder was committed, although it had recently been the scene of a fire,
which consumed as much of it as was inflammable.  The window whence the
Earl's body was thrown then remained; but now the whole tower seems to
have been renewed, leaving only the mullions of the historic window.

We merely looked up at the new, light-colored freestone of the restored
tower in passing, and ascended to the ramparts, where we found one of the
most splendid views, morally and materially, that this world can show.
Indeed, I think there cannot be such a landscape as the Carse of
Stirling, set in such a frame as it is,--the Highlands, comprehending our
friends, Ben Lomond, Ben Venue, Ben An, and the whole Ben brotherhood,
with the Grampians surrounding it to the westward and northward, and in
other directions some range of prominent objects to shut it in; and the
plain itself, so worthy of the richest setting, so fertile, so beautiful,
so written over and over again with histories.  The silver Links of Forth
are as sweet and gently picturesque an object as a man sees in a
lifetime.  I do not wonder that Providence caused great things to happen
on this plain; it was like choosing a good piece of canvas to paint a
great picture upon.  The battle of Bannockburn (which we saw beneath us,
with the Gillie's Hill on the right) could not have been fought upon a
meaner plain, nor Wallace's victory gained; and if any other great
historic act still remains to be done in this country, I should imagine
the Carse of Stirling to be the future scene of it.  Scott seems to me
hardly to have done justice--to this landscape, or to have bestowed pains
enough to put it in strong relief before the world; although it is from
the light shed on it, and so much other Scottish scenery, by his mind,
that we chiefly see it, and take an interest in it. . . .

I do not remember seeing the hill of execution before,--a mound on the
same level as the castle's base, looking towards the Highlands.  A
solitary cow was now feeding upon it.  I should imagine that no person
could ever have been unjustly executed there; the spot is too much in the
sight of heaven and earth to countenance injustice.

Descending from the ramparts, we went into the Armory, which I did not
see on my former visit.  The superintendent of this department is an old
soldier of very great intelligence and vast communicativeness, and quite
absorbed in thinking of and handling weapons; for he is a practical
armorer.  He had few things to show us that were very interesting,--a
helmet or two, a bomb and grenade from the Crimea; also some muskets from
the same quarter, one of which, with a sword at the end, he spoke of
admiringly, as the best weapon in the collection, its only fault being
its extreme weight.  He showed us, too, some Minie rifles, and whole
ranges of the old-fashioned Brown Bess, which had helped to win
Wellington's victories; also the halberts of sergeants now laid aside,
and some swords that had been used at the battle of Sheriffmuir.  These
latter were very short, not reaching to the floor, when I held one of
them, point downward, in my hand.  The shortness of the blade and
consequent closeness of the encounter must have given the weapon a most
dagger-like murderousness.  Ranging in the hall of arms, there were two
tattered banners that had gone through the Peninsular battles, one of
them belonging to the gallant 42d Regiment.  The armorer gave my wife a
rag from each of these banners, consecrated by so much battle-smoke; also
a piece of old oak, half burned to charcoal, which had been rescued from
the panelling of the Douglas Tower.  We saw better things, moreover, than
all these rusty weapons and ragged flags; namely, the pulpit and
communion-table of John Knox.  The frame of the former, if I remember
aright, is complete; but one or two of the panels are knocked out and
lost, and, on the whole, it looks as if it had been shaken to pieces by
the thunder of his holdings forth,--much worm-eaten, too, is the old oak
wood, as well it may be, for the letters MD (1500) are carved on its
front.  The communion-table is polished, and in much better preservation.

Then the armorer showed us a Damascus blade, of the kind that will cut a
delicate silk handkerchief while floating in the air; and some inlaid
matchlock guns.  A child's little toy-gun was lying on a workbench among
all this array of weapons; and when I took it up and smiled, he said that
it was his son's.  So he called in a little fellow four years old, who
was playing in the castle yard, and made him go through the musket
exercise, which he did with great good-will.  This small Son of a Gun,
the father assured us, cares for nothing but arms, and has attained
all his skill with the musket merely by looking at the soldiers on
parade. . . .

Our soldier, who had resigned the care of us to the armorer, met us again
at the door, and led us round the remainder of the ramparts, dismissing
us finally at the gate by which we entered.  All the time we were in the
castle there had been a great discordance of drums and fifes, caused by
the musicians who were practising just under the walls; likewise the
sergeants were drilling their squads of men, and putting them through
strange gymnastic motions.  Ps. 75[76]:10.

[13] Cf. Ps. 17[18]:5.

[14] Cf. Ps. 22[23]:4.

[15] From the last poem written by Soeur Thérèse.

[16] Ps. 115[116]:15.

[17] John 12:24, 25.

_____________________________

COUNSELS AND REMINISCENCES OF SOEUR THÉRÈSE, THE LITTLE FLOWER OF JESUS

_____________________________
Most of what follows has been gathered from the conversations of
Soeur Thérèse with her novices.

Her advice cannot but prove helpful to souls within the cloister, and
likewise to many in the world who may be attracted by her simple and
easy _little way_ to God.

* * * * * *
One of the novices, greatly discouraged at the thought of her imperfections,
tells us that her mistress spoke to her as follows:

"You make me think of a little child that is learning to stand but does
not yet know how to walk. In his desire to reach the top of the stairs
to find his mother, he lifts his little foot to climb the first
step. It is all in vain, and at each renewed effort he falls. Well, be
like that little child. Always keep lifting your foot to climb the
ladder of holiness, and do not imagine that you can mount even the first
step. All God asks of you is good will.
From the top of the ladder He looks lovingly upon you, and soon, touched
by your fruitless efforts, He will Himself come down, and, taking you
in His Arms, will carry you to His Kingdom never again to leave Him.
But should you cease to raise your foot, you will be left for long on
the earth."
* * * * * *
"The only way to advance rapidly in the path of love is to remain always
very little. That is what I did, and now I can sing with our holy
Father, St. John of the Cross:

'Then I abased myself so low, so very low, That I ascended to such
heights, such heights indeed, That I did overtake the prey I chased!'"

* * * * * *
Under a temptation which seemed to me irresistible, I said to her:
"This time, I cannot surmount it." She replied: "Why seek to surmount it?
Rather pass beneath. It is all well for great souls to soar above the
clouds when the storm rages; we have simply to suffer the showers. What
does it matter if we get wet? We shall dry ourselves in the sunshine
of love.

"It recalls a little incident of my childhood. One day a horse was
standing in front of the garden gate, and preventing us from getting
through.

My companions talked to him and tried to make him move off, but while they
were still talking I quietly slipped between his legs . . . Such is
the advantage of remaining small."
* * * * * *

Our Lord said to the mother of the sons of Zebedee: 'To sit on my
right or left hand is for them for whom it is prepared by my Father

.'[1] I imagine that these chosen places, which have been refused alike to
great Saints and Martyrs, will be reserved for little children;
and did not David foretell it when he said, that 'the little Benjamin
will preside amidst the assemblies[2] of the Saints.'"
* * * * * *
"You are wrong to find fault with this thing and with that, or to try and
make everyone see things as you see them. We desire to be 'as little
children,' and little children do not know what is best: to them all
seems right. Let us imitate their ways. Besides, there is no merit in
doing what reason dictates."

* * * * * *
"My patrons and my special favourites in Heaven are those who, so
to speak, stole it, such as the Holy Innocents and the Good Thief.
The great Saints won it by their works; I wish to be like the thieves and
to win it by stratagem--a stratagem of love which will open its gates both
to me and to poor sinners. In the Book of Proverbs the Holy Ghost
encourages me, for He says: 'Come to me, little one, to learn subtlety!'"[3]

* * * * * *
"What would you do if you could begin over again your religious
life?"
"I think I should do as I have already done."
"Then you do not share the feeling of the hermit who said: 'While a quarter
of an hour, or even a breath of life still remains to me, I shall
fear the fires of hell even though I should have spent long years in
penance'?"
"No, I do not share that fear; I am too small. Little children are not
damned."
"You are ever seeking to be as little children are, but tell us what must
be done to obtain that childlike spirit. 'Remaining little'--what does
it mean?"
"'Remaining little' means--to recognise one's nothingness, to await
everything from the Goodness of God, to avoid being too much troubled
at our faults; finally, not to worry over amassing spiritual riches,
not to be solicitous about anything. Even amongst the poor, while a child
is still small, he is given what is necessary; but, once he is grown
up, his father will no longer feed him, and tells him to seek work and
support himself. Well, it was to avoid hearing this, that I have never
wished to grow up, for I feel incapable of earning my livelihood, which
is Life Eternal!"
* * * * * *

In imitation of our saintly Mistress I also wished never to grow up;
she called me therefore "the little one," and during a retreat she
wrote to me the following notes:

"Do not fear to tell Jesus that you love him, even though you may not feel
that love. In this way you will compel Him to come to your aid, and to
carry you like a little child who is too weak to walk.

"It is indeed a great source of trial, when everything looks black,
but this does not depend entirely on yourself. Do all in your power to
detach your heart from earthly cares, especially from creatures; then be
assured Our Lord will do the rest. He could not permit you to
fall into the abyss. Be comforted, little one! In Heaven everything will
no longer look black, but dazzling white. There all will be clothed in
the Divine radiance of Our Spouse--the Lily of the Valley. Together we
will follow Him whithersoever He goeth. Meantime we must make good use
of this life's brief day. Let us give Our Lord pleasure, let us by
self-sacrifice give Him souls! Above all, let us be little--so little
that everyone might tread us underfoot without our even seeming to suffer
pain.

"I am not surprised at the failures of the little one; she forgets
that in her rôle of missionary and warrior she ought to forgo all childish
consolations. It is wrong to pass one's time in fretting, instead
of sleeping on the Heart of Jesus.

"Should the little one fear the dark of the night, or complain at not
seeing Him who carries her, let her shut her eyes. It is the one
sacrifice God asks. By remaining thus, the dark will cease to terrify,
because she will not see it, and before long, peace--if not joy--will
re-enter her soul."
* * * * * *
To help me accept a humiliation she confided to me what follows:

"If I had not been received into the Carmel, I would have entered a
Refuge, and lived there unknown and despised among the poor 'penitents.'
My joy would have been to pass for one, and I would have become an apostle
among my companions, telling them my thoughts on the Infinite Mercy of
God."

"But how could you have hidden your innocence from your Confessor?"
"I would have told him that while still in the world I made a general
confession, and that it was forbidden me to repeat it."
* * * * * *
"Oh! When I think of all I have to acquire!"
"Or rather to lose! It is Jesus Who takes upon Himself to fill your
soul according as you rid it of imperfections. I see clearly that you are
mistaking the road, and that you will never arrive at the end of your
journey. You want to climb the mountain, whereas God wishes you to descend
it. He is awaiting you in the fruitful valley of humility."
* * * * * *
"To me it seems that humility is truth. I do not know whether I am humble,
but I do know that I see the truth in all things."
* * * * * *
"Indeed you are a Saint!"
"No, I am not a Saint. I have never wrought the works of a Saint.
_I am but a tiny soul whom Almighty God has loaded with His favours._
"The truth of what I say will be made known to you in Heaven."
"But have you not always been faithful to those favours?"
"Yes, _from the age of three I have never refused our Good God
anything._ Still I cannot glorify myself.

See how this evening the tree-tops are gilded by the setting sun. So
likewise my soul appears to you all shining and golden because it
is exposed to the rays of Love. But should the Divine Sun no
longer shine thereon, it would instantly be sunk in gloom."
"We too would like to become all golden--what must we do?"
"You must practise the little virtues. This is sometimes difficult,
but God never refuses the first grace--courage for self-conquest;
and if the soul correspond to that grace, she at once finds herself in
God's sunlight. The praise given to Judith has always struck me: 'Thou
hast done manfully, and thy heart has been strengthened.'[4] In the onset
we must act with courage. By this means the heart gains strength, and
victory follows victory

."
* * * * * *
In conformity with the Rule, Soeur Thérèse never raised her eyes in
the refectory, and, as I found great difficulty in this observance, she
composed for me the following prayer. It reveals her exceeding humility,
because in it she asked a grace of which I alone stood in need:

"O Jesus, in honour and in imitation of the example Thou gavest in the
house of Herod, Thy two little Spouses resolve to keep their eyes cast
down in the refectory. When that impious king scoffed at Thee,
O Infinite Beauty, no complaint came from Thy Lips. Thou didst not even
deign to fix on him Thy Adorable Eyes. He was not worthy of the favour,
but we who are Thy Spouses, we desire to draw Thy Divine Gaze upon
ourselves.

As often as we refrain from raising our eyes, we beg Thee to reward us by
a glance of love, and we even dare ask Thee not to refuse this sweet glance
when we fail in our self-control, for we will humble ourselves most
sincerely before Thee."
* * * * * *
I confided to her that I made no progress, and that consequently I had
lost heart.

"Up to the age of fourteen," she said, "I practised virtue without
tasting its sweetness. I desired suffering, but I did not think of making
it my joy; that grace was vouchsafed me later. My soul was like a beautiful
tree the flowers of which had scarcely opened when they fell.

"Offer to God the sacrifice of never gathering any fruit. If He will
that throughout your whole life you should feel a repugnance to suffering
and humiliation--if He permit that all the flowers of your desires and
of your good will should fall to the ground without any fruit appearing,
do not worry. At the hour of death, in the twinkling of an eye, He will
cause fair fruits to ripen on the tree of your soul.

"We read in the Book of Ecclesiasticus: 'There is an inactive man that
wanteth help, is very weak in ability, and full of poverty:
yet the Eye of God hath looked upon him for good, and hath lifted him
up from his low estate, and hath exalted his head: and many have wondered
at him, and have glorified God. . . .

Trust in God, and stay in thy place. For it is easy in the Eyes of
God, on a sudden, to make the poor man rich. The blessing of God maketh
haste to reward the just, and in a swift hour His blessing beareth
fruit.'"[5]
"But if I fall, I shall always be found imperfect; whereas you are looked
upon as holy."
"That is, perhaps, because I have never desired to be considered so.
. . . But that you should be found imperfect is just what is best. Here
is your harvest. To believe oneself imperfect and others perfect--this
is true happiness. Should earthly creatures think you devoid of
holiness, they rob you of nothing, and you are none the poorer: it is
they who lose. For is there anything more sweet than the inward joy of
thinking well of our neighbour?

"As for myself I am glad and rejoice, not only when I am looked
upon as imperfect, but above all when I feel that it is true.

Compliments, on the contrary, do but displease me

."
* * * * * *
"God has a special love for you since He entrusts souls to your
care."

"That makes no difference, and I am really only what I am in His Eyes.
It is not because He wills me to be His interpreter among you, that He
loves me more; rather, He makes me your little handmaid. It is for you,
and not for myself, that He has bestowed upon me those charms and those
virtues which you see.

"I often compare myself to a little bowl filled by God with good
things. All the kittens come to eat from it, and they sometimes quarrel
as to which will have the largest share. But the Holy Child Jesus keeps
a sharp watch. 'I am willing you should feed from My little bowl,' He
says, 'but take heed lest you upset and break it.'
"In truth there is no great danger, because I am already on the ground.
Not so with Prioresses; set, as they are, on tables, they run far more
risks. Honours are always dangerous. What poisonous food is served
daily to those in high positions! What deadly fumes of incense! A
soul must be well detached from herself to pass unscathed through it all."

* * * * * *
"It is a consolation for you to do good and to procure the Glory of God.
I wish I were equally favoured."
"What if God does make use of me, rather than of another, to procure
His Glory! Provided His Kingdom be established among souls, the
instrument matters not. Besides, He has no need of anyone.

"Some time ago I was watching the flicker, almost invisible, of a tiny
night-light, when one of the Sisters drew near, and, lighting her candle
in the dying flame, passed it round to light all those of the Community.
'Who dare glory in his own good works?' I reflected. 'From one faint
spark such as this, it would be possible to set the whole earth on
fire.'

We often think we receive graces and are divinely illumined by means of
brilliant candles. But from whence comes their light? From the prayers,
perhaps, of some humble, hidden soul, whose inward shining is not apparent
to human eyes; a soul of unrecognised virtue and, in her own sight, of
little value--a dying flame.

"What mysteries will yet be unveiled to us! I have often thought that perhaps
I owe all the graces with which I am laden, to some little soul whom
I shall know only in Heaven.

"It is God's Will that in this world souls shall dispense to each other,
by prayer, the treasures of Heaven, in order that when they reach
their Everlasting Home they may love one another with grateful hearts, and
with an affection far in excess of that which reigns in the most
perfect family on earth.

"There no looks of indifference will meet us, because all the Saints will
be mutually indebted to each other. No envious glances will be cast, for
the happiness of each one of the Blessed will be the happiness of all.
With the Doctors of the Church we shall be like unto Doctors; with the
Martyrs, like unto Martyrs; with the Virgins, like unto Virgins; and
just as the members of one family are proud one of the other, so
without the least jealousy shall we take pride in our brothers and
sisters.

"When we see the glory of the great Saints, and know that through the
secret working of Providence we have contributed to it, who knows
whether the joy we shall feel will not be as intense, perhaps sweeter,
than the happiness they themselves possess?

"And do you not think that the great Saints, on their side, seeing what
they owe to all little souls, will love them with a love beyond
compare? The friendships of Paradise will be both sweet and full of
surprise, of this I am certain. The familiar friend of an Apostle, or
of a great Doctor of the Church, may be a shepherd boy, and a simple
little child may be united in closest intimacy with a Patriarch.
. . .

I long to enter that Kingdom of Love!"
* * * * * *
"Believe me, the writing of pious books, the composing of the sublimest
poetry, all that does not equal the smallest act of self-denial. When,
however, our inability to do good gives us pain, our only resource is
to offer up the good works of others, and in this lies the benefit of the
Communion of Saints. Recall to mind that beautiful verse of the canticle
of our Father, St. John of the Cross:

'Return, my dove! See on the height The wounded Hart, To whom refreshment
brings The breeze, stirred by thy wings.'
"Thus the Spouse, the wounded Hart, is not attracted by the height, but
only by the breeze from the pinions of the dove--a breeze which one single
stroke of wing is sufficient to create."
* * * * * *
"The one thing which is not open to envy is the lowest place. Here
alone, therefore, there is neither vanity nor affliction of spirit. Yet,
'the way of a man is not his own,'[6] and sometimes we find ourselves
wishing for what dazzles.

In that hour let us in all humility take our place among the imperfect,
and look upon ourselves as little souls who at every instant need to be
upheld by the goodness of God. From the moment He sees us fully convinced
of our nothingness, and hears us cry out: 'My foot stumbles, Lord,
but Thy Mercy is my strength,'[7] He reaches out His Hand to us.
But, should we attempt great things, even under pretext of zeal, He deserts
us. It suffices, therefore, to humble ourselves, to bear with meekness
our imperfections. Herein lies--for us--true holiness."
* * * * * *

One day I was complaining of being more tired than my Sisters, for, besides
the ordinary duties, I had other work unknown to the rest. Soeur Thérèse
replied:

"I should like always to see you a brave soldier, never grumblng at
hardships, but considering the wounds of your companions as most serious,
and your own as mere scratches. You feel this fatigue so much because
no one is aware of it.

"Now the Blessed Margaret Mary, at the time she had two whitlows,
confessed that she really suffered from the hidden one only. The
other, which she was unable to hide, excited her Sisters' pity and
made her an object of compassion. This is indeed a very natural
feeling, the desire that people should know of our aches and pains,
but in giving way to it we play the coward." 
* * * * * *
"When we are guilty of a fault we must never attribute it to some
physical cause, such as illness or the weather. We must ascribe it
to our own imperfections, without being discouraged thereby.
'Occasions do not make a man frail, but show what he is.'"[8]
* * * * * *
"God did not permit that our Mother should tell me to write my poems
as soon as I had composed them, and, fearful of committing a sin
against poverty, I would not ask leave. I had therefore to wait for
some free time, and at eight o'clock in the evening I often found
it extremely difficult to remember what I had composed in the
morning.
"True, these trifles are a species of martyrdom; but we must be
careful not to alleviate the pain of the martyrdom by permitting
ourselves, or securing permission for, a thousand and one things
which would tend to make the religious life both comfortable and
agreeable." 
* * * * * *
One day, as I was in tears, Soeur Thérèse told me to avoid the habit
of allowing others to see the trifles that worried me, adding that
nothing made community life more trying than unevenness of temper.
"You are indeed right, I answered, "such was my own thought.
Henceforward my tears will be for God alone. I shall confide my
worries to One Who will understand and console me."
"Tears for God!" she promptly replied, "that must not be. Far less
to Him than to creatures ought you to show a mournful face. Our
Divine Master has only our monasteries where He may obtain some
solace for His Heart. He comes to us in search of rest--to forget
the unceasing complaints of His friends in the world, who, instead
of appreciating the value of the Cross, receive it far more often
with moans and tears. Would you then be as the mediocre souls?
Frankly, this is not disinterested love. . . . _It is for us to
console our Lord, and not for Him to console us._ His Heart is so
tender that if you cry He will dry your tears; but thereafter He
will go away sad, since you did not suffer Him to repose tranquilly
within you. Our Lord loves the glad of heart, the children that
greet Him with a smile. When will you learn to hide your troubles
from Him, or to tell Him gaily that you are happy to suffer for
Him?"
"The face is the mirror of the soul," she said once, "and yours,
like that of a contented little child, should always be calm and
serene. Even when alone, be cheerful, remembering always that you
are in the sight of the Angels." 
* * * * * *
I was anxious she should congratulate me on what, in my eyes, was
an heroic act of virtue; but she said to me:
"Compare this little act of virtue with what our Lord has the right
to expect of you! Rather should you humble yourself for having lost
so many opportunities of proving your love."
Little satisfied with this answer, I awaited an opportunity of
finding out how Soeur Thérèse herself would act under trial, and
the occasion was not long in coming. Reverend Mother asked us to
do some extremely tiring work which bristled with difficulties,
and, on purpose, I made it still more difficult for our Mistress.
Not for one second, however, could I detect her in fault, and,
heedless of the fatigue involved, she remained gracious and amiable,
eager throughout to help others at her own expense. At last I could
resist no longer, and I confessed to her what my thoughts had
been.
"How comes it," I said, "that you can be so patient? You are ever
the same--calm and full of joy." "It was not always the case with
me," she replied, "but since I have abandoned all thought of
self-seeking, I live the happiest life possible." 
* * * * * *
Our dear Mistress used to say that during recreation, more than at
any other time, we should find opportunities for practising
virtue.
"If your desire be to draw great profit, do not go with the idea
of procuring relaxation, but rather with the intention of entertaining
others and practising complete detachment from self.
Thus, for instance, if you are telling one of the Sisters something
you think entertaining, and she should interrupt to tell you something
else, show yourself interested, even though in reality her story
may not interest you in the least.It wanted less than a quarter of
nine when the last gleam faded from the windows of the old town, and left
the crowd of buildings dim and indistinguishable, to reappear on the
morrow in squalor, lifting their meanness skyward, the home of layer upon
layer of unfortunate humanity.  The change symbolized the difference
between a poet's imagination of life in the past--or in a state which he
looks at through a colored and illuminated medium--and the sad reality.

This morning we took a cab, and set forth between ten and eleven to see
Edinburgh and its environs; driving past the University, and other
noticeable objects in the old town, and thence out to Arthur's Seat.
Salisbury Crags are a very singular feature of the outskirts.  From the
heights, beneath Arthur's Seat, we had a fine prospect of the sea, with
Leith and Portobello in the distance, and of a fertile plain at the foot
of the hill.  In the course of our drive our cabman pointed out
Dumbiedikes' house; also the cottage of Jeanie Deans,--at least, the spot
where it formerly stood; and Muschat's Cairn, of which a small heap of
stones is yet remaining.  Near this latter object are the ruins of St.
Anthony's Chapel, a roofless gable, and other remains, standing on the
abrupt hillside.  We drove homeward past a parade-ground on which a body
of cavalry was exercising, and we met a company of infantry on their
route thither.  Then we drove near Calton Hill, which seems to be not a
burial-ground, although the site of stately monuments.  In fine, we
passed through the Grass-Market, where we saw the cross in the pavement
in the street, marking the spot, as I recorded before, where Porteous was
executed.  Thence we passed through the Cowgate, all the latter part of
our drive being amongst the tall, quaint edifices of the old town, alike
venerable and squalid.  From the Grass-Market the rock of the castle
looks more precipitous than as we had hitherto seen it, and its prisons,
palaces, and barracks approach close to its headlong verge, and form one
steep line with its descent.  We drove quite round the Castle Hill, and
returned down Prince's Street to our hotel.  There can be no other city
in the world that affords more splendid scenery, both natural and
architectural, than Edinburgh.

Then we went to St. Giles's Cathedral, which I shall not describe, it
having been kirkified into three interior divisions by the Covenanters;
and I left my wife to take drawings, while J----- and I went to
Short's Observatory, near the entrance of the castle.  Here we saw a
camera-obscura, which brought before us, without our stirring a step,
almost all the striking objects which we had been wandering to and fro to
see.  We also saw the mites in cheese, gigantically magnified by a solar
microscope; likewise some dioramic views, with all which I was mightily
pleased, and for myself, being tired to death of sights, I would as lief
see them as anything else.  We found, on calling for mamma at St.
Giles's, that she had gone away; but she rejoined us between four and
five o'clock at our hotel, where the next thing we did was to dine.
Again after dinner we walked out, looking at the shop-windows of
jewellers, where ornaments made of cairngorm pebbles are the most
peculiar attraction.  As it was our wedding-day, . . . . I gave S----- a
golden and amethyst-bodied cairngorm beetle with a ruby head; and after
sitting awhile in Prince's Street Gardens, we came home.


July 10th.--Last evening I walked round the castle rock, and through the
Grass-Market, where I stood on the inlaid cross in the pavement, thence
down the High Street beyond John Knox's house.  The throng in that part
of the town was very great.  There is a strange fascination in these old
streets, and in the peeps down the closes; but it doubtless would be a
great blessing were a fire to sweep through the whole of ancient
Edinburgh.  This system of living on flats, up to I know not what story,
must be most unfavorable to cleanliness, since they have to fetch their
water all that distance towards heaven, and how they get rid of their
rubbish is best known to themselves.

My wife has gone to Roslin this morning, and since her departure it has
been drizzly, so that J----- and I, after a walk through the new part of
the town, are imprisoned in our parlor with little resource except to
look across the valley to the castle, where Mons Meg is plainly visible
on the upper platform, and the lower ramparts, zigzagging about the edge
of the precipice, which nearly in front of us is concealed or softened by
a great deal of shrubbery, but farther off descends steeply down to the
grass below.  Somewhere on this side of the rock was the point where
Claverhouse, on quitting Edinburgh before the battle of Killiecrankie,
clambered up to hold an interview with the Duke of Gordon.  What an
excellent thing it is to have such striking and indestructible landmarks
and time-marks that they serve to affix historical incidents to, and
thus, as it were, nail down the Past for the benefit of all future ages!

The old town of Edinburgh appears to be situated, in its densest part, on
the broad back of a ridge, which rises gradually to its termination in
the precipitous rock, on which stands the castle.  Between the old town
and the new is the valley, which runs along at the base of this ridge,
and which, in its natural state, was probably rough and broken, like any
mountain gorge.  The lower part of the valley, adjacent to the Canongate,
is now a broad hollow space, fitted up with dwellings, shops, or
manufactories; the next portion, between two bridges, is converted into
an ornamental garden free to the public, and contains Scott's beautiful
monument,--a canopy of Gothic arches and a fantastic spire, beneath which
he sits, thoughtful and observant of what passes in the contiguous
street; the third portion of the valley, above the last bridge, is
another ornamental garden, open only to those who have pass-keys.  It is
an admirable garden, with a great variety of surface, and extends far
round the castle rock, with paths that lead up to its very base, among
leafy depths of shrubbery, and winds beneath the sheer, black precipice.
J----- and I walked there this forenoon, and took refuge from a shower
beneath an overhanging jut of the rock, where a bench had been placed,
and where a curtain of hanging ivy helped to shelter us.  On our return
to the hotel, we found mamma just alighting from a cab.  She had had very
bad fortune in her excursion to Roslin, having had to walk a long
distance to the chapel, and being caught in the rain; and, after all, she
could only spend seven minutes in viewing the beautiful Roslin
architecture.


MELROSE.


July 11th.--We left Edinburgh, where we had found at Addison's, 87
Prince's Street, the most comfortable hotel in Great Britain, and went to
Melrose, where we put up at the George.  This is all travelled ground
with me, so that I need not much perplex myself with further description,
especially as it is impossible, by any repetition of attempts, to
describe Melrose Abbey.  We went thither immediately after tea, and were
shown over the ruins by a very delectable old Scotchman, incomparably the
best guide I ever met with.  I think he must take pains to speak the
Scotch dialect, he does it with such pungent felicity and effect, and it
gives a flavor to everything he says, like the mustard and vinegar in a
salad.  This is not the man I saw when here before.  The Scotch dialect
is still, in a greater or less degree, universally prevalent in Scotland,
insomuch that we generally find it difficult to comprehend the answers to
our questions, though more, I think, from the unusual intonation than
either from strange words or pronunciation.  But this old man, though he
spoke the most unmitigated Scotch, was perfectly intelligible,--perhaps
because his speech so well accorded with the classic standard of the
Waverley Novels.  Moreover, he is thoroughly acquainted with the Abbey,
stone by stone; and it was curious to see him, as we walked among its
aisles, and over the grass beneath its roofless portions, pick up the
withered leaves that had fallen there, and do other such little things,
as a good housewife might do to a parlor.  I have met with two or three
instances where the guardian of an old edifice seemed really to love it,
and this was one, although the old man evidently had a Scotch
Covenanter's contempt and dislike of the faith that founded the Abbey.
He repeated King David's dictum that King David the First was "a sair
saint for the crown," as bestowing so much wealth on religious edifices;
but really, unless it be Walter Scott, I know not any Scotchman who has
done so much for his country as this same St. David.  As the founder of
Melrose and many other beautiful churches and abbeys, he left magnificent
specimens of the only kind of poetry which the age knew how to produce;
and the world is the better for him to this day,--which is more, I
believe, than can be said of any hero or statesman in Scottish annals.

We went all over the ruins, of course, and saw the marble stone of King
Alexander, and the spot where Bruce's heart is said to be buried, and the
slab of Michael Scott, with the cross engraved upon it; also the
exquisitely sculptured kail-leaves, and other foliage and flowers, with
which the Gothic artists inwreathed this edifice, bestowing more minute
and faithful labor than an artist of these days would do on the most
delicate piece of cabinet-work.  We came away sooner than we wished, but
we hoped to return thither this morning; and, for my part, I cherish a
presentiment that this will not be our last visit to Scotland and
Melrose. . . . J----- and I then walked to the Tweed, where we saw two
or three people angling, with naked legs, or trousers turned up, and
wading among the rude stones that make something like a dam over the wide
and brawling stream.  I did not observe that they caught any fish, but
J----- was so fascinated with the spectacle that he pulled out his poor
little fishing-line, and wished to try his chance forthwith.  I never
saw the angler's instinct stronger in anybody.  We walked across the
foot-bridge that here spans the Tweed; and J----- observed that he did
not see how William of Deloraine could have found so much difficulty in
swimming his horse across so shallow a river.  Neither do I.  It now
began to sprinkle, and we hastened back to the hotel.

It was not a pleasant morning; but we started immediately after breakfast
for


ABBOTSFORD,


which is but about three miles distant.  The country between Melrose and
that place is not in the least beautiful, nor very noteworthy,--one or
two old irregular villages; one tower that looks principally domestic,
yet partly warlike, and seems to be of some antiquity; and an undulation,
or rounded hilly surface of the landscape, sometimes affording wide
vistas between the slopes.  These hills, which, I suppose, are some of
them on the Abbotsford estate, are partly covered with woods, but of
Scotch fir, or some tree of that species, which creates no softened
undulation, but overspreads the hill like a tightly fitting wig.  It is a
cold, dreary, disheartening neighborhood, that of Abbotsford; at least,
it has appeared so to me at both of my visits,--one of which was on a
bleak and windy May morning, and this one on a chill, showery morning of
midsummer.

The entrance-way to the house is somewhat altered since my last visit;
and we now, following the direction of a painted finger on the wall, went
round to a side door in the basement story, where we found an elderly man
waiting as if in expectation of visitors.  He asked us to write our names
in a book, and told us that the desk on the leaf of which it lay was the
one in which Sir Walter found the forgotten manuscript of Waverley, while
looking for some fishing-tackle.  There was another desk in the room,
which had belonged to the Colonel Gardiner who appears in Waverley.  The
first apartment into which our guide showed us was Sir Walter's study,
where I again saw his clothes, and remarked how the sleeve of his old
green coat was worn at the cuff,--a minute circumstance that seemed to
bring Sir Walter very near me.  Thence into the library; thence into the
drawing-room, whence, methinks, we should have entered the dining-room,
the most interesting of all, as being the room where he died.  But this
room seems not to be shown now.  We saw the armory, with the gun of Rob
Roy, into the muzzle of which I put my finger, and found the bore very
large; the beautifully wrought pistol of Claverhouse, and a pair of
pistols that belonged to Napoleon; the sword of Montrose, which I
grasped, and drew half out of the scabbard; and Queen Mary's iron
jewel-box, six or eight inches long, and two or three high, with a lid
rounded like that of a trunk, and much corroded with rust.  There is no
use in making a catalogue of these curiosities.  The feeling in visiting
Abbotsford is not that of awe; it is little more than going to a museum.
I do abhor this mode of making pilgrimages to the shrines of departed
great men.  There is certainly something wrong in it, for it seldom or
never produces (in me, at least) the right feeling.  It is an odd truth,
too, that a house is forever after spoiled and ruined as a home, by
having been the abode of a great man.  His spirit haunts it, as it were,
with a malevolent effect, and takes hearth and hall away from the nominal
possessors, giving all the world the right to enter there because he had
such intimate relations with all the world.

We had intended to go to Dryburgh Abbey; but as the weather more than
threatened rain, . . . . we gave up the idea, and so took the rail for
Berwick, after one o'clock.  On our road we passed several ruins in
Scotland, and some in England,--one old castle in particular, beautifully
situated beside a deep-banked stream.  The road lies for many miles along
the coast, affording a fine view of the German Ocean, which was now blue,
sunny, and breezy, the day having risen out of its morning sulks.  We
waited an hour or more at Berwick, and J----- and I took a hasty walk
into the town.  It is a rough and rude assemblage of rather mean houses,
some of which are thatched.  There seems to have been a wall about the
town at a former period, and we passed through one of the gates.  The
view of the river Tweed here is very fine, both above and below the
railway bridge, and especially where it flows, a broad tide, and between
high banks, into the sea.  Thence we went onward along the coast, as I
have said, pausing a few moments in smoky Newcastle, and reaching Durham
about eight o'clock.


DURHAM.


I wandered out in the dusk of the evening,--for the dusk comes on
comparatively early as we draw southward,--and found a beautiful and
shadowy path along the river-side, skirting its high banks, up and adown
which grow noble elms.  I could not well see, in that obscurity of
twilight boughs, whither I was going, or what was around me; but I judged
that the castle or cathedral, or both, crowned the highest line of the
shore, and that I was walking at the base of their walls.  There was a
pair of lovers in front of me, and I passed two or three other tender
couples.  The walk appeared to go on interminably by the river-side,
through the same sweet shadow; but I turned and found my way into the
cathedral close, beneath an ancient archway, whence, issuing again, I
inquired my way to the Waterloo Hotel, where we had put up.


ITEMS.--We saw the Norham Castle of Marmion, at a short distance from the
station of the same name.  Viewed from the railway, it has not a very
picturesque appearance,--a high, square ruin of what I suppose was the
keep.--At Abbotsford, treasured up in a glass case in the drawing-room,
were memorials of Sir Walter Scott's servants and humble friends,--for
instance, a brass snuff-box of Tom Purdie,--there, too, among precious
relics of illustrious persons.--In the armory, I grasped with some
interest the sword of Sir Adam Ferguson, which he had worn in the
Peninsular war.  Our guide said, of his own knowledge, that "he was a
very funny old gentleman."  He died only a year or two since.


July 11th.--The morning after our arrival in Durham being Sunday, we
attended service in the cathedral. . . . We found a tolerable audience,
seated on benches, within and in front of the choir; and people
continually strayed in and out of the sunny churchyard and sat down, or
walked softly and quietly up and down the side aisle.  Sometimes, too,
one of the vergers would come in with a handful of little boys, whom he
had caught playing among the tombstones.


DURHAM CATHEDRAL


has one advantage over the others which I have seen, there being no
organ-screen, nor any sort of partition between the choir and nave; so
that we saw its entire length, nearly five hundred feet, in one vista.
The pillars of the nave are immensely thick, but hardly of proportionate
height, and they support the round Norman arch; nor is there, as far as I
remember, a single pointed arch in the cathedral.  The effect is to give
the edifice an air of heavy grandeur.  It seems to have been built before
the best style of church architecture had established itself; so that it
weighs upon the soul, instead of helping it to aspire.  First, there are
these round arches, supported by gigantic columns; then, immediately
above, another row of round arches, behind which is the usual gallery
that runs, as it were, in the thickness of the wall, around the nave of
the cathedral; then, above all, another row of round arches, enclosing
the windows of the clere-story.  The great pillars are ornamented in
various ways,--some with a great spiral groove running from bottom to
top; others with two spirals, ascending in different directions, so as to
cross over one another; some are fluted or channelled straight up and
down; some are wrought with chevrons, like those on the sleeve of a
police-inspector.  There are zigzag cuttings and carvings, which I do not
know how to name scientifically, round the arches of the doors and
windows; but nothing that seems to have flowered out spontaneously, as
natural incidents of a grand and beautiful design.  In the nave, between
the columns of the side aisles, I saw one or two monuments. . . .

The cathedral service is very long; and though the choral part of it is
pleasant enough, I thought it not best to wait for the sermon, especially
as it would have been quite unintelligible, so remotely as I sat in the
great space.  So I left my seat, and after strolling up and down the
aisle a few times, sallied forth into the churchyard.  On the cathedral
door there is a curious old knocker, in the form of a monstrous face,
which was placed there, centuries ago, for the benefit of fugitives from
justice, who used to be entitled to sanctuary here.  The exterior of the
cathedral, being huge, is therefore grand; it has a great central tower,
and two at the western end; and reposes in vast and heavy length, without
the multitude of niches, and crumbling statues, and richness of detail,
that make the towers and fronts of some cathedrals so endlessly
interesting.  One piece of sculpture I remember,--a carving of a cow, a
milk-maid, and a monk, in reference to the legend that the site of the
cathedral was, in some way, determined by a woman bidding her cow go home
to Dunholme.  Cadmus was guided to the site of his destined city in some
such way as this.

It was a very beautiful day, and though the shadow of the cathedral fell
on this side, yet, it being about noontide, it did not cover the
churchyard entirely, but left many of the graves in sunshine.  There were
not a great many monuments, and these were chiefly horizontal slabs, some
of which looked aged, but on closer inspection proved to be mostly of the
present century.  I observed an old stone figure, however, half worn
away, which seemed to have something like a bishop's mitre on its head,
and may perhaps have lain in the proudest chapel of the cathedral before
occupying its present bed among the grass.  About fifteen paces from the
central tower, and within its shadow, I found a weather-worn slab of
marble, seven or eight feet long, the inscription on which interested me
somewhat.  It was to the memory of Robert Dodsley, the bookseller,
Johnson's acquaintance, who, as his tombstone rather superciliously
avers, had made a much better figure as an author than "could have been
expected in his rank of life."  But, after all, it is inevitable that a
man's tombstone should look down on him, or, at all events, comport
itself towards him "de haut en bas."  I love to find the graves of men
connected with literature.  They interest me more, even though of no
great eminence, than those of persons far more illustrious in other walks
of life.  I know not whether this is because I happen to be one of the
literary kindred, or because all men feel themselves akin, and on terms
of intimacy, with those whom they know, or might have known, in books.  I
rather believe that the latter is the case.

My wife had stayed in the cathedral, but she came out at the end of the
sermon, and told me of two little birds, who had got into the vast
interior, and were in great trouble at not being able to find their way
out again.  Thus, two winged souls may often have been imprisoned within
a faith of heavy ceremonials.

We went round the edifice, and, passing into the close, penetrated
through an arched passage into the crypt, which, methought, was in a
better style of architecture than the nave and choir.  At one end stood a
crowd of venerable figures leaning against the wall, being stone images
of bearded saints, apostles, patriarchs, kings,--personages of great
dignity, at all events, who had doubtless occupied conspicuous niches in
and about the cathedral till finally imprisoned in this cellar.  I looked
at every one, and found not an entire nose among them, nor quite so many
heads as they once had.

Thence we went into the cloisters, which are entire, but not particularly
interesting.  Indeed, this cathedral has not taken hold of my affections,
except in one aspect, when it was exceedingly grand and beautiful.

After looking at the crypt and the cloisters, we returned through the
close and the churchyard, and went back to the hotel through a path by
the river-side.  This is the same dim and dusky path through which I
wandered the night before, and in the sunshine it looked quite as
beautiful as I knew it must,-- a shadow of elm-trees clothing the high
bank, and overarching the paths above and below; some of the elms growing
close to the water-side, and flinging up their topmost boughs not nearly
so high as where we stood, and others climbing upward and upward, till
our way wound among their roots; while through the foliage the quiet
river loitered along, with this lovely shade on both its banks, to pass
through the centre of the town.  The stately cathedral rose high above
us, and farther onward, in a line with it, the battlemented walls of the
old Norman castle, gray and warlike, though now it has become a
University.  This delightful walk terminates at an old bridge in the
heart of the town; and the castle hangs immediately over its busiest
street.  On this bridge, last night, in the embrasure, or just over the
pier, where there is a stone seat, I saw some old men seated, smoking
their pipes and chatting.  In my judgment, a river flowing through the
centre of a town, and not too broad to make itself familiar, nor too
swift, but idling along, as if it loved better to stay there than to go,
is the pleasantest imaginable piece of scenery; so transient as it is,
and yet enduring,--just the same from life's end to life's end; and this
river Wear, with its sylvan wildness, and yet so sweet and placable, is
the best of all little rivers,--not that it is so very small, but with a
bosom broad enough to be crossed by a three-arched bridge.  Just above
the cathedral there is a mill upon its shore, as ancient as the times of
the Abbey.

We went homeward through the market-place and one or two narrow streets;
for the town has the irregularity of all ancient settlements, and,
moreover, undulates upward and downward, and is also made more
unintelligible to a stranger, in its points and bearings, by the tortuous
course of the river.

After dinner J----- and I walked along the bank opposite to that on which
the cathedral stands, and found the paths there equally delightful with
those which I have attempted to describe.  We went onward while the river
gleamed through the foliage beneath us, and passed so far beyond the
cathedral that we began to think we were getting into the country, and
that it was time to return; when all at once we saw a bridge before us,
and beyond that, on the opposite bank of the Wear, the cathedral itself!
The stream had made a circuit without our knowing it.  We paused upon the
bridge, and admired and wondered at the beauty and glory of the scene,
with those vast, ancient towers rising out of the green shade, and
looking as if they were based upon it.  The situation of Durham Cathedral
is certainly a noble one, finer even than that of Lincoln, though the
latter stands even at a more lordly height above the town.  But as I saw
it then, it was grand, venerable, and sweet, all at once; and I never saw
so lovely and magnificent a scene, nor, being content with this, do I
care to see a better.  The castle beyond came also into the view, and the
whole picture was mirrored in the tranquil stream below.  And so,
crossing the bridge, the path led us back through many a bower of hollow
shade; and we then quitted the hotel, and took the rail for


YORK,


where we arrived at about half past nine.  We put up at the Black Swan,
with which we had already made acquaintance at our previous visit to
York.  It is a very ancient hotel; for in the coffee-room I saw on the
wall an old printed advertisement, announcing that a stage-coach would
leave the Black Swan in London, and arrive at the Black Swan in York,
with God's permission, in four days.  The date was 1706; and still, after
a hundred and fifty years, the Black Swan receives travellers in Coney
Street.  It is a very good hotel, and was much thronged with guests when
we arrived, as the Sessions come on this week.  We found a very smart
waiter, whose English faculties have been brightened by a residence of
several years in America.

In the morning, before breakfast, I strolled out, and walked round the
cathedral, passing on my way the sheriff's javelin-men, in long gowns of
faded purple embroidered with gold, carrying halberds in their hands;
also a gentleman in a cocked hat, gold-lace, and breeches, who, no doubt,
had something to do with the ceremonial of the Sessions.  I saw, too, a
procession of a good many old cabs and other carriages, filled with
people, and a banner flaunting above each vehicle.  These were the
piano-forte makers of York, who were going out of town to have a
jollification together.

After breakfast we all went to the cathedral, and no sooner were we
within it than we found how much our eyes had recently been educated, by
our greater power of appreciating this magnificent interior; for it
impressed us both with a joy that we never felt before.  J----- felt it
too, and insisted that the cathedral must have been altered and improved
since we were last here.  But it is only that we have seen much splendid
architecture since then, and so have grown in some degree fitted to enjoy
it.  York Cathedral (I say it now, for it is my present feeling) is the
most wonderful work that ever came from the hands of man.  Indeed, it
seems like "a house not made with hands," but rather to have come down
from above, bringing an awful majesty and sweetness with it and it is so
light and aspiring, with all its vast columns and pointed arches, that
one would hardly wonder if it should ascend back to heaven again by its
mere spirituality.  Positively the pillars and arches of the choir are so
very beautiful that they give the impression of being exquisitely
polished, though such is not the fact; but their beauty throws a gleam
around them.  I thank God that I saw this cathedral again, and I thank
him that he inspired the builder to make it, and that mankind has so long
enjoyed it, and will continue to enjoy it.


July 14th.--We left York at twelve o'clock, and were delayed an hour or
two at Leeds, waiting for a train.  I strolled up into the town, and saw
a fair, with puppet-shows, booths of penny actors, merry-go-rounds,
clowns, boxers, and other such things as I saw, above a year ago, at
Greenwich fair, and likewise at Tranmere, during the Whitsuntide
holidays.

We resumed our journey, and reached Southport in pretty good trim at
about nine o'clock.  It has been a very interesting tour.  We find
Southport just as we left it, with its regular streets of little and big
lodging-houses, where the visitors perambulate to and fro without any
imaginable object.  The tide, too, seems not to have been up over the
waste of sands since we went away; and far seaward stands the same row of
bathing-machines, and just on the verge of the horizon a gleam of water,
--even this being not the sea, but the mouth of the river Ribble, seeking
the sea amid the sandy desert.  But we shall soon say good-by to
Southport.


OLD TRAFFORD, MANCHESTER.


July 22d.--We left Southport for good on the 20th, and have established
ourselves in this place, in lodgings that had been provided for us by Mr.
Swain; our principal object being to spend a few weeks in the proximity
of the Arts' Exhibition.  We are here, about three miles from the
Victoria Railway station in Manchester on one side, and nearly a mile
from the Exhibition on the other.  This is a suburb of Manchester, and
consists of a long street, called the Stratford Road, bordered with brick
houses two stories high, such as are usually the dwellings of tradesmen
or respectable mechanics, but which are now in demand for lodgings, at
high prices, on account of the Exhibition.  It seems to be rather a new
precinct of the city, and the houses, though ranged along a continuous
street, are but a brick border of the green fields in the rear.
Occasionally you get a glimpse of this country aspect between two houses;
but the street itself, even with its little grass-plots and bits of
shrubbery under the front windows, is as ugly as it can be made.  Some of
the houses are better than I have described; but the brick used here in
building is very unsightly in hue and surface.

Betimes in the morning the Exhibition omnibuses begin to trundle along,
and pass at intervals of two and a half minutes through the day,--immense
vehicles constructed to carry thirty-nine passengers, and generally with
a good part of that number inside and out.  The omnibuses are painted
scarlet, bordered with white, have three horses abreast, and a conductor
in a red coat.  They perform the journey from this point into town in
about half an hour; and yesterday morning, being in a hurry to get to the
railway station, I found that I could outwalk them, taking into account
their frequent stoppages.

We have taken the whole house (except some inscrutable holes, into which
the family creeps), of respectable people, who never took lodgers until
this juncture.  Their furniture, however, is of the true lodging-house
pattern, sofas and chairs which have no possibility of repose in them;
rickety tables; an old piano and old music, with "Lady Helen Elizabeth"
somebody's name written on it.  He adds:

On the whole, however, the children give me great joy, though also not a
little annoyance owing to their importunity.
Fortunately, during my activity in connection with the school children's
gymnastic society at ---- I have gained so much patience that I
never permit myself to lose my temper. While I am writing this already
ten or twelve children have invaded my room asking for bread. Everyone
of them got something. I am now almost reduced to beggary myself, and
whatever I can get hold of is given to the children, so that they may enjoy
themselves. I got from a friend a few packets of ginger cakes. I gave
them all away, and I do not even know how they tasted.

And when I show them photographs of my children's gymnastic society there
is almost a riot. How I wish I could understand them better! A little
girl of 13, who always reminds me of my own second daughter, has won
my heart completely. Every day she says to me a couple of German words
which she has picked up somewhere: "I don't know," "Potatoes without
salt are no good," "Benzine is dangerous," and phrases like that. I
cannot realise that these children belong to an enemy nation. I should
have dearly loved to roam about with them through forest and
field, as I used to in Berlin.--(Quoted in the _Daily News_, December 20,
1915.)[40]

THE CHILD IN NO MAN'S LAND.

The story of the child adopted by the Bedfordshires will be remembered
by many. She was found in a ditch by the men on their way to the trenches,
and was perforce for some time with them there.

The German trenches were about 150 yards off, and the level, open space
between the two lines wasn't healthy. No man who valued his life would
go there unnecessarily, or recklessly put his head above the
parapet.

One morning, to their horror the men, through the periscope, saw the child
standing above the trench on the German side. Cries came from
the enemy, but they were not hostile. The sight of the girl, little more
than an infant, has touched their sentimental side, and she had
offers of chocolate and invitations to go and see them.

After that the girl went over the parapet quite often. She was as safe
in that danger zone as if she had been behind the lines.
No German would harm her, and once she went close up to their first-line
trench.--(_Daily News_, February 17, 1916).

AUSTRO-HUNGARIANS IN CETINJE.

When the Austro-Hungarian troops entered Cetinje there was already serious
famine:

The children in the streets were begging bread from the passing soldiers,
who shared their tiny brown loaves with the hungry little children,
and the military authorities at the barracks were besieged from the
morning till late in the evening by the starving population.

There were some fifty or sixty well-to-do better class families,
who had been in Government positions before, or prominent business
people, who suffered as terribly as their poorer brethren.

Among those who went begging for bread to headquarters were wives of
ex-Ministers and women who were ladies-in-waiting at the Royal Court
only a few weeks previously. For their children's sake they were all
ready to beg for something to eat.

It must be admitted that the military authorities put the soldiers
on quarter rations and distributed all the available food among the
suffering population. The bad condition of the roads and the consequent
lack of supplies in the army itself made it impossible for them to do
more.--(_Daily News_, February 21, 1916.)
_On quarter rations_--that is worth remembering.

NOT ALL BARBARIANS, NOR ALL CHIVALROUS.

We have all of us heard many stories from our soldier friends.
Many statements and opinions we cannot in these days publish, but some
are allowable. Such as the following: "Some of our men were hung up on
the German barbed wire.

We could do nothing to get at them. We saw the Germans trying to make
signs from their trenches and we couldn't at first make out what they
meant, but presently some of them ventured out and took in our wounded.
I turned to my mate and said, 'They tell us all the Germans are barbarians,
but that doesn't look much like it.' It was difficult to keep some of
our men from firing on the Germans even then." The last statement
will surprise only those who have not been told the truth about war.
Passion gets the upper hand of humanity, and indeed reason may support
passion, for is not destruction of the enemy one of the chief aims of
war? Shall we spare the enemy when rescuing their _own_ wounded? By
war logic that would be inconceivably foolish. Hence such incidents
as the following: A lieutenant of Hussars wrote on October 22, 1914,
of his work in a loft which he had previously loopholed. The letter is
both frank and generous, and as usual with soldiers' letters, without any
of the malicious sanctity which so besets the civilian. The letter was
published in the _Times_, November 26, 1914. "When I got up I could see
crowds of Germans advancing. I think they have learnt a lesson from us,
for they didn't advance in masses, but in extended order like we do.
They were jolly good, too.... One fellow was jolly brave. I saw him carrying
back a wounded man on his back, and it made a very good target. Though
we didn't succeed in hitting him, he had to drop his man.... We
were having jolly good fun." One sentence shows how far removed are
the ethics of war from the ethics of peace: "I saw him carrying back
a wounded man on his back, _and it made a very good target_."
And here is a case where chivalry was remembered and forgotten. The
extract is from the _Daily News_, May 17, 1916. Most of us may get similar
information privately, but it is wisest to confine oneself to what has
already been published:

A sergeant on active service writes in the course of a letter on
his experiences: "I got stuck in a trench up to my waist in mud, and
who do you think pulled me out?--only a German about 6ft.
4in. One of my boys wanted to bayonet him.[41] I said: 'Drop that or I
shoot you.' The German said: 'Sergeant, it is not my fault--I am only
fighting for my country as you are fighting for yours.'"

A GERMAN PRIEST.

From the _Daily News_, February 17, 1916, I take the following story of
a German priest:

Then the word came that we were to go for the enemy's first line,
and we did.

Our artillery started the music, and we made our effort.

Our lads almost lost their reason for the time being, and heedless
of shells and bullets, mounted the first German parapet. We killed many
of them, but it is fair to say they didn't give in. They quickly had
reinforcements, and we were compelled against heavy odds to yield
the trench to the enemy.

Angry fighting continued, and our game now was to lure as many of the Germans
towards our lines as possible so that we could mow them down with our guns.
On they came, many hundreds of them, and as quickly they fell.

Our fellows got it too, and one little party was absolutely at the mercy
of the enemy. Two of our young officers and five men were severely
wounded and their position was helpless, for it was impossible to rescue
them. Despite our tremendous fire the Germans, with fixed bayonets, tried
to reach the party and their intention was obvious. They got within a
few yards of the wounded when one of their number sprang in front
of them and flashed a crucifix. "Stop," he shouted, and then he knelt
down by the side of our men and blessed them. The other
Germans immediately withdrew.

Then we managed to reach the wounded and our officer thanked the priest for
the brave way in which he had behaved in the face of his own men. "Take
me," said the priest. "I am your prisoner." The officer said he would
not do that, but he would see that he returned to the German lines
unharmed. The promise was kept, and before they parted the priest, falling
on his knees, thanked our officer warmly, adding: "God bless you and good
luck!"

MUTUAL FEARS.

Each side fears the barbarity of the other. "Would it be good military
policy," asked a military official, "to encourage any other idea?" "'My
comrades were afraid,' said this German sergeant. 'They cried out to me
that the Indians would kill their prisoners, and that we should die if we
surrendered. But I said, 'That is not true, comrades, and is only a
tale. Let us go forward with our hands up.' So in that way we went, and
the Indian horsemen closed about us, and I spoke to one of them, asking
for mercy for our men, and he was very kind and a gentleman, and we
surrendered to him safely.' He was glad to be alive, this man from
Wiesbaden. He showed me the portrait of his wife and boy, and cried a
little, saying that the German people did not make the war, but
had to fight for their country when told to fight, like other men....

He waved his hand back to the woodlands, and remembered the terror of the
place from which he had just come. 'Over there it was worse than death.'"
Yes, and "If any man were to draw the picture of those things or to
tell them more nakedly than I have told them, because now is not the time,
nor this the place, no man or woman would dare to speak again of war's
'glory,' or of 'the splendour of war,' or any of those old lying phrases
which hide the dreadful truth." (Philip Gibbs in the _Daily Chronicle_,
July 18, 1916.)

THE CIVILIAN'S HATE.

Yet, appalling as modern war is, there are things which some
soldiers find worse. When I spoke to an old friend of mine about a
popular print that disseminates hatred he said, "Whenever I see that paper
it makes my blood run cold." Yet in one of the charges which that man
had faced only about a quarter of his company came back. That charge
was to him less hideous than some newspaper malice--a malice which is
so often a matter of business. Since then my friend has given his life,
and has left in one heart a desolation that is worse than death. But
in that heart there is no hate, only sympathy for all the sorrow, both
on this side and the other.

Mr. Frederick Niven tells us the impressions of a wounded soldier who
saw the Zeppelin burned at Cuffley. "What stuck in his mind was the
roars that occurred when the airship took fire and began to come
sagging and flaming down. 'It reminded me of what I have read of "Thumbs
down" in the arenas of ancient Rome. It was the most terrible thing I
have heard in my life. I've heard some cheering at the front,
but this was different. Nothing out there had quite the same horrible
sound.'" The difference can be explained. "These men," says Mr. Niven,
"have seen the procession of the maimed, grey propping khaki, khaki
propping grey, all trooping down to the dressing station." (_Daily
News_, October 9, 1916.)
And here is a letter from a brave young officer, since killed. "I drifted
into the ---- Parish Church last evening to hear the organ and the singing.
I was pushed into a pew up in the front, and so could not escape until
the end of the service. I could have wept when I heard the sermon;
it was a dreadful medieval picture of Heaven and Hell, and a dreadful
curse on all the German people as being ready for 'Hell.' ...
The whole service was as artificial as one could imagine--so heartless and
so soulless. It made me feel so very sad that, as I said before, I could
have wept openly. Do you think that the congregation, a large one, would
take in and believe all that they heard from the pulpit?

It seems too dreadful!"

AND CIVILIAN KINDNESS.

Yet even civilians, even German civilians, do not always hate.

There is a better Germany, but it is only occasionally that we are allowed
glimpses of it now, and we must go usually among unknown people, and
read unpopular or comparatively obscure publications if we seek a
wider range of vision.

In December, 1914, Mrs. Jackson, wife of a golf professional, returned
from Germany to Clacton-on-Sea. Her husband had been in the employ of the
Cologne Golf Club. "Do you think," she was asked, "the German hatred of
England is general?" "No," replied Mrs.
Jackson. "Of course, the Germans hate England fiercely as a nation, but I
do not think they do as individuals.

Everyone treated us extremely well, although they knew our nationality,
and my husband's employers are anxious for him to go back again to them
when the war is finished." "Does Germany know the truth?" "I do not think
so. We could not get any British newspapers, and only heard the German
side of the question. I was quite thunderstruck when I heard England had
joined in, and I am sure the German people were, too. The Germans are
confident of victory, and so much is this so that some of my friends
did not want me to go back, saying that I should be much safer where
I was." I take this report from the _Clacton Graphic_ of February 20,
1915.

Of course, there has been much kindness on this side, and much gratitude
for it in Germany, but I confess that some things I have heard from
the other side have given me twinges of patriotic jealousy. I should like
to feel that my country is always first in generosity. When Chaplain
O'Rorke walked unattended and in khaki through the streets of Burg,
there was no offensive remark.[42] Three English ladies travelling in
Germany in war-time tell me that they never suffered from one
unpleasant word. Miss Littlefair tells of some anti-English demonstrations,
but of far more kindness, and when her unpopular nationality became known
in a railway carriage, there was no change in the friendliness of its
occupants.[43] Again, a Canadian Chaplain has been allowed to travel
free, and in his uniform, and to visit his men in different camps. He
seems to have had no difficulty with the populace. As regards walks
on parole, we hear from Crefeld, "There has been no trouble of any kind
with the inhabitants."[44]

SOME GERMAN NEWSPAPERS AND OTHER GERMAN COMMENTS.

The _Frankfurter Zeitung_ is one of those German newspapers which has
often at least worked for sanity in the national attitude. We may differ
from some of its conclusions, but we must admire its stand against the
flood of foolish, indiscriminate hate. On February 27, 1915, it asked:

"What sense is there in German professors declaring that they will no
longer collaborate with this or that scientific institution in
England?... Salutations such as the celebrated 'God punish England'
are not only fundamentally tasteless and theatrical, but are quite
ridiculous.... We are deep in war, and we have to collect all our strength
to beat our enemies, and especially to subdue our most dangerous
enemy, England; but after the war must follow a peace which shall render
possible calm and assured work. This work must be performed in conjunction
with other peoples which we cannot exterminate." ...
(Quoted in the _Times_, March 2, 1915.) On April 11, 1915, there
appeared another telling little article, "English and German, according
to Professor Sombart." The article is quietly ironical over Professor
Sombart, who brings us before the court on the old charge, that we are
a nation of shopkeepers. "The traders' spirit, that is Englishdom." I
confess that as an Englishman I have always felt there was an uncomfortable
amount of truth in this sneer. We are surely a somewhat stodgy,
money-making people with far too little receptivity for new ideas. "I have
long thought and preached," wrote Lord Haldane in the _Nation_ of
August 7, 1915, "that the real problem in this country is the
development of thought and ideas."

Dr. Drill does not in his review concern himself with this charge.
He remarks in passing that it is quite possible for a tradesman to be
a hero and for a minister of war to be a tradesman, and then goes on to
point out the futile absurdity of all such general charges. He cites an
amusing attack on German culture by a lecturer at Bedford College.
"We smile over his attack," says Dr. Drill.
"May we not be afraid that educated Englishmen do the same about
Professor Sombart?" The review tears the book to tatters, and the
reviewer sums up the opinion of the thoughtful by declaring that the
publication of such a piece of writing at this time of crisis is altogether
scandalous.

The course of journalists during this war has so often been down steep
places that we are refreshed whenever we come, either in England
or in Germany, upon so brave a stand for a sane view of the enemy. Karl
Bleibtreu (as quoted in the _Daily News_, July 8, 1915) writes in the
_Kölnische Zeitung_, "Such foolish effusions as that of Professor Sombart's
'Traders and Heroes,' revealing no conception of the more profound movements
of the soul, must be regarded as an error.
The true perception is here blurred by a confusion of the British
private character, which is worthy in every way of the highest respect,
with the State policy which is dominated by a national megalomania."
We are told that Bleibtreu abuses France.

Well, we have known rather distinguished Englishmen abuse France, too.
The _Frankfurter Zeitung_ has spoken of "the really heroic bravery"
of the Black Watch. The _Kölnische Zeitung_ reproduced a spirited article
from the Austrian _Danzers Armee Zeitung_ in which that paper said the
generous thing about Serbian, Belgian and Russian armies alike. This article
also was a protest against the lower tone which has prevailed by no means
only amongst the newspapers printed in German. The Serbians are
spoken of as "an enemy who can hardly be surpassed in keenness and untiring
energy." No one has any right, the article says, to abuse the Belgians
who had a right to fight and who fought very well, notwithstanding the
notoriously unmilitary character of their country. Of the Russians
we are told, "We must admit that these armies are well led, excellently
equipped, and splendidly armed.... There have been individual cases
of disregard of the Red Cross, and one hears of occasional plunderings,
but, as regards the majority, it is an honourable and chivalrous
enemy that is facing us." The love of fair play is after all not
confined to Englishmen, or to the opponents of Germany.
The _Daily News_ of March 26, 1918, quotes from the _Kölnische
Zeitung_, which writes of the British enemy as "defending himself
with extraordinary determination and bravery.... Our men speak in
terms of the highest praise of the attitude of the enemy. The
Englishman is an extremely brave soldier." I confess I should be
glad to read tributes of like generosity in certain popular newspapers
on this side. The _Deutsche Tageszeitung_ is also quoted as saying
that the British defended every one of their points of support
determinedly and bravely, giving way only step by step. Again, von
Ludendorff (March 27) is quoted as saying: "The English use and
distribute their machine guns very cleverly," and there is something
out of keeping with the attributed Ludendorff character in the
remark: "The district over which the offensive has passed is
pitiable."
On April 4, 1918, the _Daily News_ contained the following under
the heading, "A Respectful Greeting sent per balloon by the
Germans":
In a dispatch from the front Reuter's special correspondent says
there is a certain sporting element in the German army, and relates
the following incident:
During the thick of the first clash a small balloon came floating
down to where our men were making a splendid resistance. On being
captured it was found to be carrying the following message: "Good
old 51st! Sticking it still! Good luck!"
The 51st, which is one of the three first divisions to be named in
official communiqués for magnificently opposing the enemy hordes,
is known to be regarded by the Germans as one of our most formidable
corps.
On April 15 we read of Armentières: "A Berlin semi-official statement
says that despite the ever-increasing pressure of the enveloping
troops the town held out extraordinarily bravely. Only when, by a
flank onslaught of the German troops, envelopment to the west of
the town was almost completed, did the remnant of the brave garrison
surrender."
And here is a letter from an Englishwoman in Germany (_Nation_, May
15, 1915): "'Gott strafe England' is a 'Spruch' in great use here,
and is to be had on rubber stamps....Woolner, whose bust of him is now in the Exhibition.

Gazing at him with all my eyes, I liked him well, and rejoiced more in
him than in all the other wonders of the Exhibition.

How strange that in these two or three pages I cannot get one single
touch that may call him up hereafter!

I would most gladly have seen more of this one poet of our day, but
forbore to follow him; for I must own that it seemed mean to be dogging
him through the saloons, or even to look at him, since it was to be done
stealthily, if at all.

He is as un-English as possible; indeed an Englishman of genius usually
lacks the national characteristics, and is great abnormally.  Even the
great sailor, Nelson, was unlike his countrymen in the qualities that
constituted him a hero; he was not the perfection of an Englishman, but a
creature of another kind,--sensitive, nervous, excitable, and really more
like a Frenchman.

Un-English as he was, Tennyson had not, however, an American look.  I
cannot well describe the difference; but there was something more mellow
in him,--softer, sweeter, broader, more simple than we are apt to be.
Living apart from men as he does would hurt any one of us more than it
does him.  I may as well leave him here, for I cannot touch the central
point.


August 2d.--Day before yesterday I went again to the Exhibition, and
began the day with looking at the old masters.  Positively, I do begin to
receive some pleasure from looking at pictures; but as yet it has nothing
to do with any technical merit, nor do I think I shall ever get so far as
that.  Some landscapes by Ruysdael, and some portraits by Murillo,
Velasquez, and Titian, were those which I was most able to appreciate;
and I see reason for allowing, contrary to my opinion, as expressed a few
pages back, that a portrait may preserve some valuable characteristics of
the person represented.  The pictures in the English portrait-gallery are
mostly very bad, and that may be the reason why I saw so little in them.
I saw too, at this last visit, a Virgin and Child, which appeared to me
to have an expression more adequate to the subject than most of the
innumerable virgins and children, in which we see only repetitions of
simple maternity; indeed, any mother, with her first child, would serve
an artist for one of them.  But, in this picture the Virgin had a look as
if she were loving the infant as her own child, and at the same time
rendering him an awful worship, as to her Creator.

While I was sitting in the central saloon, listening to the music, a
young man accosted me, presuming that I was so-and-so, the American
author.  He himself was a traveller for a publishing firm; and he
introduced conversation by talking of Uttoxeter, and my description of it
in an annual.  He said that the account had caused a good deal of pique
among the good people of Uttoxeter, because of the ignorance which I
attribute to them as to the circumstance which connects Johnson with
their town.  The spot where Johnson stood can, it appears, still be
pointed out.  It is on one side of the market-place, and not in the
neighborhood of the church.  I forget whether I recorded, at the time,
that an Uttoxeter newspaper was sent me, containing a proposal that a
statue or memorial should be erected on the spot.  It would gratify me
exceedingly if such a result should come from my pious pilgrimage
thither.

My new acquaintance, who was cockneyish, but very intelligent and
agreeable, went on to talk about many literary matters and characters;
among others, about Miss Bronte, whom he had seen at the Chapter
Coffee-House, when she and her sister Anne first went to London.  He was
at that time connected with the house of ------ and ------, and he
described the surprise and incredulity of Mr.------, when this little,
commonplace-looking woman presented herself as the author of Jane Eyre.
His story brought out the insignificance of Charlotte Bronte's aspect,
and the bluff rejection of her by Mr. ------, much more strongly than
Mrs. Gaskell's narrative.


Chorlton Road, August 9th.--We have changed our lodgings since my last
date, those at Old Trafford being inconvenient, and the landlady a sharp,
peremptory housewife, better fitted to deal with her own family than to
be complaisant to guests.  We are now a little farther from the
Exhibition, and not much better off as regards accommodation, but the
housekeeper is a pleasant, civil sort of a woman, auspiciously named Mrs.
Honey.  The house is a specimen of the poorer middle-class dwellings as
built nowadays,--narrow staircase, thin walls, and, being constructed for
sale, very ill put together indeed,--the floors with wide cracks between
the boards, and wide crevices admitting both air and light over the
doors, so that the house is full of draughts.  The outer walls, it seems
to me, are but of one brick in thickness, and the partition walls
certainly no thicker; and the movements, and sometimes the voices, of
people in the contiguous house are audible to us.  The Exhibition has
temporarily so raised the value of lodgings here that we have to pay a
high price for even such a house as this.

Mr. Wilding having gone on a tour to Scotland, I had to be at the
Consulate every day last week till yesterday; when I absented myself from
duty, and went to the Exhibition.  U---- and I spent an hour together,
looking principally at the old Dutch masters, who seem to me the most
wonderful set of men that ever handled a brush.  Such lifelike
representations of cabbages, onions, brass kettles, and kitchen crockery;
such blankets, with the woollen fuzz upon them; such everything I never
thought that the skill of man could produce!  Even the photograph cannot
equal their miracles.  The closer you look, the more minutely true the
picture is found to be, and I doubt if even the microscope could see
beyond the painter's touch.  Gerard Dow seems to be the master among
these queer magicians.  A straw mat, in one of his pictures, is the most
miraculous thing that human art has yet accomplished; and there is a
metal vase, with a dent in it, that is absolutely more real than reality.
These painters accomplish all they aim at,--a praise, methinks, which can
be given to no other men since the world began.  They must have laid down
their brushes with perfect satisfaction, knowing that each one of their
million touches had been necessary to the effect, and that there was not
one too few nor too many.  And it is strange how spiritual and suggestive
the commonest household article--an earthen pitcher, for example--
becomes, when represented with entire accuracy.  These Dutchmen got at
the soul of common things, and so made them types and interpreters of the
spiritual world.

Afterwards I looked at many of the pictures of the old masters, and found
myself gradually getting a taste for them; at least, they give me more
and more pleasure the oftener I come to see them.  Doubtless, I shall be
able to pass for a man of taste by the time I return to America.  It is
an acquired taste, like that for wines; and I question whether a man is
really any truer, wiser, or better for possessing it.  From the old
masters, I went among the English painters, and found myself more
favorably inclined towards some of them than at my previous visits;
seeing something wonderful even in Turner's lights and mists and yeasty
waves, although I should like him still better if his pictures looked in
the least like what they typify.  The most disagreeable of English
painters is Etty, who had a diseased appetite for woman's flesh, and
spent his whole life, apparently, in painting them with enormously
developed busts.  I do not mind nudity in a modest and natural way; but
Etty's women really thrust their nudity upon you with malice
aforethought, . . . . and the worst of it is they are not beautiful.

Among the last pictures that I looked at was Hogarth's March to Finchley;
and surely nothing can be covered more thick and deep with English nature
than that piece of canvas.  The face of the tall grenadier in the centre,
between two women, both of whom have claims on him, wonderfully expresses
trouble and perplexity; and every touch in the picture meant something
and expresses what it meant.

The price of admission, after two o'clock, being sixpence, the Exhibition
was thronged with a class of people who do not usually come in such large
numbers.  It was both pleasant and touching to see how earnestly some of
them sought to get instruction from what they beheld.  The English are a
good and simple people, and take life in earnest.


August 14th.--Passing by the gateway of the Manchester Cathedral the
other morning, on my way to the station, I found a crowd collected, and,
high overhead, the bells were chiming for a wedding.  These chimes of
bells are exceedingly impressive, so broadly gladsome as they are,
filling the whole air, and every nook of one's heart with sympathy.  They
are good for a people to rejoice with, and good also for a marriage,
because through all their joy there is something solemn,--a tone of that
voice which we have heard so often at funerals.  It is good to see how
everybody, up to this old age of the world, takes an interest in
weddings, and seems to have a faith that now, at last, a couple have come
together to make each other happy.  The high, black, rough old cathedral
tower sent out its chime of bells as earnestly as for any bridegroom and
bride that came to be married five hundred years ago.  I went into the
churchyard, but there was such a throng of people on its pavement of flat
tombstones, and especially such a cluster along the pathway by which the
bride was to depart, that I could only see a white dress waving along,
and really do not know whether she was a beauty or a fright.  The happy
pair got into a post-chaise that was waiting at the gate, and immediately
drew some crimson curtains, and so vanished into their Paradise.  There
were two other post-chaises and pairs, and all three had postilions in
scarlet.  This is the same cathedral where, last May, I saw a dozen
couples married in the lump.

In a railway carriage, two or three days ago, an old merchant made rather
a good point of one of the uncomfortable results of the electric
telegraph.  He said that formerly a man was safe from bad news, such as
intelligence of failure of debtors, except at the hour of opening his
letters in the morning; and then he was in some degree prepared for it,
since, among (say) fifteen letters, he would be pretty certain to find
some "queer" one.  But since the telegraph has come into play, he is
never safe, and may be hit with news of failure, shipwreck, fall of
stocks, or whatever disaster, at all hours of the day.

I went to the Exhibition on Wednesday with U----, and looked at the
pencil sketches of the old masters; also at the pictures generally, old
and new.  I particularly remember a spring landscape, by John Linnell the
younger.  It is wonderfully good; so tender and fresh that the artist
seems really to have caught the evanescent April and made her permanent.
Here, at least, is eternal spring.

I saw a little man, behind an immense beard, whom I take to be the Duke
of Newcastle; at least, there was a photograph of him in the gallery,
with just such a beard.  He was at the Palace on that day.


August 16th.--I went again to the Exhibition day before yesterday, and
looked much at both the modern and ancient pictures, as also at the
water-colors.  I am making some progress as a connoisseur, and have got
so far as to be able to distinguish the broader differences of style,--
as, for example, between Rubens and Rembrandt.  I should hesitate to
claim any more for myself thus far.  In fact, however, I do begin to have
a liking for good things, and to be sure that they are good.  Murillo
seems to me about the noblest and purest painter that ever lived, and his
"Good Shepherd" the loveliest picture I have seen.  It is a hopeful
symptom, moreover, of improving taste, that I see more merit in the crowd
of painters than I was at first competent to acknowledge.  I could see
some of their defects from the very first; but that is the earliest stage
of connoisseurship, after a formal and ignorant admiration.  Mounting a
few steps higher, one sees beauties.  But how much study, how many
opportunities, are requisite to form and cultivate a taste!  The
Exhibition must be quite thrown away on the mass of spectators.

Both they and I are better able to appreciate the specimens of ornamental
art contained in the Oriental Room, and in the numerous cases that are
ranged up and down the nave.  The gewgaws of all Time are here, in
precious metals, glass, china, ivory, and every other material that could
be wrought into curious and beautiful shapes; great basins and dishes of
embossed gold from the Queen's sideboard, or from the beaufets of
noblemen; vessels set with precious stones; the pastoral staffs of
prelates, some of them made of silver or gold, and enriched with gems,
and what have been found in the tombs of the bishops; state swords, and
silver maces; the rich plate of colleges, elaborately wrought,--great
cups, salvers, tureens, that have been presented by loving sons to their
Alma Mater; the heirlooms of old families, treasured from generation to
generation, and hitherto only to be seen by favored friends; famous
historical jewels, some of which are painted in the portraits of the
historical men and women that hang on the walls; numerous specimens of
the beautiful old Venetian glass, some of which looks so fragile that it
is a wonder how it could bear even the weight of the wine, that used to
be poured into it, without breaking.  These are the glasses that tested
poison, by being shattered into fragments at its touch.  The strangest
and ugliest old crockery, pictured over with monstrosities,--the Palissy
ware, embossed with vegetables, fishes, lobsters, that look absolutely
real; the delicate Sevres china, each piece made inestimable by pictures
from a master's hand;--in short, it is a despair and misery to see so
much that is curious and beautiful, and to feel that far the greater
portion of it will slip out of the memory, and be as if we had never seen
it.  But I mean to look again and again at these things.  We soon
perceive that the present day does not engross all the taste and
ingenuity that has ever existed in the mind of man; that, in fact, we are
a barren age in that respect.


August 20th.--I went to the Exhibition on Monday, and again yesterday,
and measurably enjoyed both visits.  I continue to think, however, that a
picture cannot be fully enjoyed except by long and intimate acquaintance
with it, nor can I quite understand what the enjoyment of a connoisseur
is.  He is not usually, I think, a man of deep, poetic feeling, and does
not deal with the picture through his heart, nor set it in a poem, nor
comprehend it morally.  If it be a landscape, he is not entitled to judge
of it by his intimacy with nature; if a picture of human action, he has
no experience nor sympathy of life's deeper passages.  However, as my
acquaintance with pictures increases, I find myself recognizing more and
more the merit of the acknowledged masters of the art; but, possibly, it
is only because I adopt the wrong principles which may have been laid
down by the connoisseurs.  But there can be no mistake about Murillo,--
not that I am worthy to admire him yet, however.

Seeing the many pictures of Holy Families, and the Virgin and Child,
which have been painted for churches and convents, the idea occurs, that
it was in this way that the poor monks and nuns gratified, as far as they
could, their natural longing for earthly happiness.  It was not Mary and
her heavenly Child that they really beheld, or wished for; but an earthly
mother rejoicing over her baby, and displaying it probably to the world
as an object worthy to be admired by kings,--as Mary does, in the
Adoration of the Magi.  Every mother, I suppose, feels as if her first
child deserved everybody's worship.

I left the Exhibition at three o'clock, and went to Manchester, where I
sought out Mr. C  S------- in his little office.  He greeted me warmly,
and at five we took the omnibus for his house, about four miles from
town.  He seems to be on pleasant terms with his neighbors, for almost
everybody that got into the omnibus exchanged kindly greetings with him,
and indeed his kindly, simple, genial nature comes out so evidently that
it would be difficult not to like him.  His house stands, with others, in
a green park,--a small, pretty, semi-detached suburban residence of
brick, with a lawn and garden round it.  In close vicinity, there is a
deep clough or dell, as shaggy and wild as a poet could wish, and with a
little stream running through it, as much as five miles long.

The interior of the house is very pretty, and nicely, even handsomely and
almost sumptuously, furnished; and I was very glad to find him so
comfortable.  His recognition as a poet has been hearty enough to give
him a feeling of success, for he showed me various tokens of the
estimation in which he is held,--for instance, a presentation copy of
Southey's works, in which the latter had written "Amicus amico,--poeta
poetae."  He said that Southey had always been most kind to him. . . .
There were various other testimonials from people of note, American as
well as English.  In his parlor there is a good oil-painting of himself,
and in the drawing-room a very fine crayon sketch, wherein his face,
handsome and agreeable, is lighted up with all a poet's ecstasy; likewise
a large and fine engraving from the picture.  The government has
recognized his poetic merit by a pension of fifty pounds,--a small sung,
it is true, but enough to mark him out as one who has deserved well of
his country. . . . The man himself is very good and lovable. . . . 
K. E. Markel and others on this side, and by Dr. Rotten, Siegmund Schulze,
Prof. Stange and their fellows on the other, is indeed as "a clear flame
of truth in a dark and haunted night."

PROF. STANGE.

To the great work of Prof. Stange, of Göttingen, I have once or twice
alluded. He directs all the instruction given in the Göttingen
camp, attends daily, gives lectures and superintends the library. He
experienced the usual difficulties of any civilian who tries to practice
Christianity in war-time. "One great German newspaper wrote with indignation
that the prisoners in the Göttingen Camp had as good a time as if they
were at a health resort." Doubtless this paper, like some others,
contrasted the (rumoured) abominable treatment of German prisoners by
their enemies with the too great indulgence shown to prisoners in
Germany. But Prof. Stange is not abashed. "No internment camp," he writes,
"can be compared with a 'holiday resort.' In spite of everything that may
be done for the prisoners, internment is and remains always a very hard
lot. In the Göttingen camp, too, many a prisoner needs not only the
exertion of his whole strength, but help as well to make the endurance
of his lot physically and spiritually possible." Stange is one of those
who have learned to envisage the anxieties, the loneliness, the uncertainty,
the ennui of the prisoner, and the terrible enervation of long months,
and, alas, years of confinement. In this, as in so many circumstances of
the war, it is the more sensitive and developed minds that suffer
most, and are most easily destroyed, those minds that are indispensable
in the building of any worthy future.

Prof.

Stange quite frankly acknowledges to a war prejudice against the English.
But when he found their great need of help, his prejudices melted away,
and he soon engaged in helping them too with books classes, and other
means of activity.

Prof. Stange recognises that such work for enemy prisoners helps towards
better treatment of their own prisoners abroad, but, he adds, "It must
certainly be emphatically stated that we in Göttingen never took up our
work for the prisoners with this object. What compelled us to work was
simply and entirely the great distress and need of the prisoners
themselves." (P. 36. The extracts are from Prof. Stange's pamphlet on
Göttingen Camp.)

THE LAST RESTING PLACE.

At last, rest.

To many weary hearts it must have become a pitiful consolation that this
at least is sure. "After life's fitful fever he sleeps well." And in that
sleep no fevered passion can even "ruffle one corner of the folded shroud."
At last, rest; where the enmities and the ambitions are forgotten. In the
presence of this stillness of death, even to the living their disputes
seem small. If the mood could endure, death might not be needed to bring
peace.

I.--ENGLAND.

"In a corner of the bonny little churchyard of Frongoch, adjoining the
extended camp, there are two solitary graves. Here, in a strange land,
the land of their captivity, two German prisoner soldiers lie at
rest, as in many a plot of ground in France and Flanders, German
and British lie together, strife hushed in the last sleep.

Here there are no grim sounds and sights of battle, but instead there
is all the peace and beauty of a lovely spring. Immediately beyond the
graves a wooded bank descends to the stream, and over and through the
fresh green foliage, amidst which the birds are happily melodious this
bright April morning, and all around can be seen the mountains of Wales,
the 'land of freedom.' Over the grave of one of these liberated captives
is a tombstone erected at the expense of, and engraved by, his fellow
prisoners. It marks the place where Hugo Schröter, Under-Officer of one
of the Crown Prince's Infantry Regiments, who died on April
9, 1915, as the result of wounds received in the cause of his country, was
laid to rest by his grateful comrades.

"The other grave has no stone as yet, but one is being prepared. It
is that of a prisoner who died of consumption, after many months of
lingering suffering in the hospital, where every care was bestowed
upon him.

It was in reference to this man that the Chief Officer wrote me:
'To our regret died last Thursday the patient in the isolation
hospital.
If only he could have seen the two beautiful bunches of violets you sent!
The funeral took place yesterday at 10-30. It was an impressive sight
but a very sad one, too.'
"My daughter laid a little offering of white flowers on the grave, and
then I photographed them in order to send copies to the families of the
poor men, which I hope may prove little winged messengers of
sympathy and goodwill."
W. WHITING.

II.--GERMANY.

"A British officer, of whom one can truly say that he had not been afraid
to speak the truth about his treatment in Germany, and in the
Cologne hospital, was carried to his last resting-place yesterday.

"It was Captain Wilfred Beckett Birt, of the East Surrey Regiment No.
31, who, on the occasion of the attack in September, 1915, had his
thigh shattered and was taken prisoner. Since January, 1916, he had been
nursed in the fortress hospital, No. 6, situated in the Empress Augusta
School. His chivalrous character and his conscientious impartiality
made him respected and popular with his French and English fellow
sufferers and the German Hospital Staff. Gratefully he acknowledged
what the surgical art of assistant-surgeon Dr. Meyer had done to lessen
his sufferings, and the loving care the German nurses, male and female,
had bestowed on him and his comrades.

"The great affection in which he was held by friend and foe alike
showed itself in the mourning over his death, which took place a
few days ago.

His wound, a short time before, had shown improvement, but the heart
was no longer equal to the terrible strain. Those of his comrades who
were not confined to bed rallied round his coffin yesterday, which had
been put upon a bier in the hospital garden surrounded by flowers and
palms.

"The principal mourners were his countrymen, who were seated on benches
at the foot of the coffin; around it were the French and Belgians, the
German doctors and hospital staff. Large lighted candles stood at the
head of the coffin, which was covered with wreaths decorated with the
English, French, Belgian, and German colours.

"Garrison Pastor Hartmann, in a moving speech, which went straight
to the heart of the hearers, spoke about the deceased as a chivalrous
fighter for his native land, as a good Christian and a truly noble
character.

It was touching to hear the parting hymn sung by the sonorous voices
of the British wounded, accompanied solemnly on the harmonium by a
British performer. All escorted the coffin to the gates. Once outside,
it was reverently lifted on to the funeral car, which German gunners
escorted to the cemetery. Four British and one French officer, as well
as the German doctors who could be spared, followed in motor cars.

"At the gates of the cemetery, Lieutenant-General Schach, Colonel Lindemann,
as representative of the Governor of the fortress, Major Esser,
Dr. Lamberts, the chief medical officer of the garrison, deputations of
the Officers' and Medical Corps, the Band of the Reserve Battalion Pioneer
Regiment No. 25, awaited the cortège.

"Pastor Hartmann spoke again, and, in words which made a deep impression
on all, closed with prayer and benediction.

Dr.

Rademacher, the Catholic priest of the garrison, then made a funeral
oration in English, affecting all who heard it.

"In the name of the hospital staff, Dr. Meyer expressed his heartfelt
sorrow to the British officers present, the band played the hymn,
'How gently they rest, those who are with the Lord,' and, profoundly
touched, Englishmen and Frenchmen shook hands with the clergy and
the German officers.

"Three handfuls of earth on to the coffin of one who had found eternal
rest, and the mourners dispersed." _Kölnische Zeitung._

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 37: Now at 27, Chancery Lane, W.C.2.]
[Footnote 38: Unoccupied, that is, by the Germans.]
[Footnote 39: Such a regulation is a hardship. It may, however, prove
unavoidable, as in some camps here. Friends of prisoners are not always
wise.]

V.

WHAT THE GERMAN MAY BE.

A WITNESS FROM SERBIA.

The following letter may not inappropriately open this section. Dr.
Ella Scarlett-Synge is the daughter of the third Baron Abinger. She
has a long medical experience, and served by Government appointment with
Mrs.
Fawcett on the Concentration Camps Commission in the Boer War.

Dr.
Scarlett-Synge was present in Serbia during the Austro-German invasion,
she was in Germany afterwards and visited various prisoners' camps. On
her return she wrote the brief letter which follows. Of her _bona fides_
there was no doubt, and she had introductions to various editors. Yet
only one daily paper (_The Manchester Guardian_) would publish her letter.
This is a small illustration of the methods of war-time.
Belligerent nations manage to convince themselves that by suppression
of disconcerting evidence one arrives at truth. It is easy to understand,
for all of us who are frank with ourselves know the difficulty of
complete fairness even in ordinary controversy. But the consequences
of arguing for mere victory are in war sometimes as grave and sad as the
consequences of fighting for mere victory. Dr. Synge tells us simply
what she saw:

Having just returned from Serbia, via Berlin, I have one great wish,
the desire to bring home to my own country the things that I have seen
with my own eyes, and the truths that I have personally realised.

After the South African War, I was a doctor in Canada for ten years and
when, during the second year of this war, the call came from Serbia
for doctors, I was one of those responding, and was stationed by the
Serbian Government as Medical Officer of Health for Batochina and district,
where I was in residence at the time of the German invasion in
October, and was with my wounded men when the German army entered northern
Serbia, and saw the whole campaign.

Contrary to all my expectations, the conduct of the German army was excellent
in every respect. The men entered no occupied house without the permission
of the owner, they took nothing without payment or a requisition paper.
Never did I ask a German soldier in vain for half of his bread for a
wounded Serbian soldier. Generally it was all given to me and I cut the
portion and returned half.

After I had been for some weeks with the German Red Cross doctors and
began to realise how wrong an impression all in England had concerning our
enemies, I decided to ask permission to go to Germany and see for myself
whether equally wrong ideas existed concerning the treatment of British
prisoners in the detention camps. This permission was accorded me,
and I went to Berlin where I waited a fortnight while the War Office
decided upon the matter.

I was then given a long list of camps to choose from and permitted to go
with an officer to inspect and report upon the same.

In this short letter I can only say that I was justified in my belief
that all was well with our men, and, as a fine Canadian sergeant at
Giessen said to me (whose regiment I had seen march out of Vancouver
a year ago), "If a man behaves himself, he will have nothing to complain
of."
Now, to my sorrow, I am forced to confess that the nations do not yet incline
towards peace, and to my regret I have to state that Germany's resources
at the present drain will last another four or five years. Also there
is no lack of food, and one may also say of luxuries in the land.

The people are united to fight as long as England wishes to continue in
the useless struggle in which neither can win, for while we hold
the sea, they are equally powerful on land. I can see that this is going
to be a drawn war, but neither nation has yet had enough.

The object of this letter is not to encourage a premature peace which would
be ultimately worse than war, but to plead for a fairer treatment
for our foe. Let the truth, and the truth only, be known. "Let us
fight if we must fight--but not with lies."
No one, in time of peace, respects the British Press more than I
do. It is the greatest power in the land. And, let me to-day appeal
to that mighty influence for weal or for woe, according to whether
it decides wisely or not, to play the game fairly and let the same
spirit prevail that we have in our great public schools: "win if
you can--but only by fair play."--I beg to remain, Yours faithfully,
ELLA SCARLETT-SYNGE, M.D., D.P.H.

Hyde Park Hotel, Knightsbridge.
Dr. Scarlett-Synge was, at the outset, intensely anti-German. Her
personal experience of Germans (both military and civilian) in
war-time has profoundly modified her views. Dr. Scarlett-Synge went
out from Canada to take over a position as Medical Officer of Health
in the north of Serbia. She had twelve villages under her care, and
found the absolute lack of sanitation or sanitary knowledge in that
country very trying. At the time of the invasion, Dr. Synge was
strongly urged to leave, but decided to stop with her wounded men.
Strangely enough the only soldiers from whom she had to flee were
the Serbians. The Serbian Army in its retreat through Batochina was
absolutely drunk, officers as well as men, and while the soldiers
were forcing the doors of the priest's house, where Dr. Synge
resided, she fled with the priest's wife (at the latter's terror-struck
entreaty) through a back window. The house was rifled by the soldiers,
and next day the German patrol arrived. Dr. Synge was asked by the
sergeant to assure the people of Batochina that if there was no
shooting, they would be perfectly safe.
She was urged to collect any firearms, and the patrol then withdrew.
The doctor, with the help of the people, collected 17 rifles. There
was, however, one obstinate Serbian soldier who had apparently not
been able to keep up with the retreat, who threatened to retain his
rifle, and seemed quite capable of endangering the whole population.
"Your thumb needs attention, does it not?" asked the doctor. "Just
let me look at it?" The man opened his hand and she snatched his
rifle away. A joyful crowd accompanied her with the rifle to the
dispensary, where it was locked up.
Had there been firing by the populace, there would undoubtedly have
been reprisals. Our own action in the Boer War, and the action of
the military in _every_ invasion, illustrates this fundamental rule.
As it was, there was absolutely no destruction and the soldiers
were scrupulously honest. When the owners had fled, their houses
and their cattle were certainly made use of, but whenever the owner
was present the soldiers "were not allowed to touch a single thing."
The exception proves the rule; Dr. Scarlett-Synge's hostess had her
pig stolen, but a German soldier caught her an unowned pig of larger
size. She was very pleased with the exchange!
"May we use your schoolhouse for our wounded?" said the German
doctors, "it seems the best place." Dr. Scarlett-Synge was amazed.
She had expected anything but this kind of politeness. Only _once_
in her three months' experience of the Germans was she treated
rudely, and that was by an extremely anti-English doctor of the
Deutsche Kriegshospital No.
58, Belgrade. This particular man corresponded to a certain type
of anti-German here, and a private soldier present afterwards
apologised for his rudeness.But a castle does not make nearly so interesting and
impressive a ruin as an abbey, because the latter was built for beauty,
and on a plan in which deep thought and feeling were involved; and having
once been a grand and beautiful work, it continues grand and beautiful
through all the successive stages of its decay.  But a castle is rudely
piled together for strength and other material conveniences; and, having
served these ends, it has nothing left to fall back upon, but crumbles
into shapeless masses, which are often as little picturesque as a pile of
bricks.  Without the ivy and the shrubbery, this huge Kenilworth would
not be a pleasant object, except for one or two window-frames, with
broken tracery, in the Banqueting-Hall. . . .

We stayed from eleven till two, and identified the various parts of the
castle as well as we could by the guide-book.  The ruins are very
extensive, though less so than I should have imagined, considering that
seven acres were included within the castle wall.  But a large part of
the structures have been taken away to build houses in Kenilworth village
and elsewhere, and much, too, to make roads with, and a good deal lies
under the green turf in the court-yards, inner and outer.  As we returned
to the gate, my wife and U---- went into the gate-house to see an old
chimney-piece, and other antiquities, and J----- and I proceeded a little
way round the outer wall, and saw the remains of the moat, and Lin's
Tower,--a real and shattered fabric of John of Gaunt.

The omnibus now drove up, and one of the old men at the gate came
hobbling up to open the door, and was rewarded with a sixpence, and we
drove down to the King's Head. . . . We then walked out and bought
prints of the castle, and inquired our way to the church and to the ruins
of the Priory.  The latter, so far as we could discover them, are very
few and uninteresting; and the church, though it has a venerable
exterior, and an aged spire, has been so modernized within, and in so
plain a fashion, as to have lost what beauty it may once have had.  There
were a few brasses and mural monuments, one of which was a marble group
of a dying woman and her family by Westmacott.  The sexton was a cheerful
little man, but knew very little about his church, and nothing of the
remains of the Priory.  The day was spent very pleasantly amid this
beautiful green English scenery, these fine old Warwickshire trees, and
broad, gently swelling fields.


LIVERPOOL.


September 17th.--I took the train for Rugby, and thence to Liverpool.
The most noticeable character at Mrs. Blodgett's now is Mr. T------, a
Yankee, who has seen the world, and gathered much information and
experience already, though still a young man,--a handsome man, with black
curly hair, a dark, intelligent, bright face, and rather cold blue eyes,
but a very pleasant air and address.  His observing faculties are very
strongly developed in his forehead, and his reflective ones seem to be
adequate to making some, if not the deepest, use of what he sees.  He has
voyaged and travelled almost all over the world, and has recently
published a book of his peregrinations, which has been well received.  He
is of exceeding fluent talk, though rather too much inclined to unfold
the secret springs of action in Louis Napoleon, and other potentates, and
to tell of revolutions that are coming at some unlooked-for moment, but
soon.  Still I believe in his wisdom and foresight about as much as in
any other man's.  There are no such things.  He is a merchant, and
meditates settling in London, and making a colossal fortune there during
the next ten or twenty years; that being the period during which London
is to hold the exchanges of the world, and to continue its metropolis.
After that, New York is to be the world's queen city.

There is likewise here a young American, named A------, who has been at a
German University, and favors us with descriptions of his student life
there, which seems chiefly to have consisted in drinking beer and
fighting duels.  He shows a cut on his nose as a trophy of these combats.
He has with him a dog of St. Bernard, who is a much more remarkable
character than himself,--an immense dog, a noble and gentle creature; and
really it touches my heart that his master is going to take him from his
native snow-mountain to a Southern plantation to die.  Mr. A------ says
that there are now but five of these dogs extant at the convent; there
having, within two or three years, been a disease among them, with which
this dog also has suffered.  His master has a certificate of his
genuineness, and of himself being the rightful purchaser; and he says
that as he descended the mountain, every peasant along the road stopped
him, and would have compelled him to give up the dog had he not produced
this proof of property.  The neighboring mountaineers are very jealous of
the breed being taken away, considering them of such importance to their
own safety.  This huge animal, the very biggest dog I ever saw, though
only eleven months old, and not so high by two or three inches as he will
be, allows Mr. ------ to play with him, and take him on his shoulders (he
weighs, at least, a hundred pounds), like any lapdog.


LEAMINGTON.


Lansdowne Circus, October 10th.--I returned hither from Liverpool last
week, and have spent the time idly since then, reposing myself after the
four years of unnatural restraint in the Consulate.  Being already pretty
well acquainted with the neighborhood of Leamington, I have little or
nothing to record about the prettiest, cheerfullest, cleanest of English
towns.

On Saturday we took the rail for Coventry, about a half-hour's travel
distant.  I had been there before, more than two years ago. . . . No
doubt I described it on my first visit; and it is not remarkable enough
to be worth two descriptions,--a large town of crooked and irregular
streets and lanes, not looking nearly so ancient as it is, because of new
brick and stuccoed fronts which have been plastered over its antiquity;
although still there are interspersed the peaked gables of old-fashioned,
timber-built houses; or an archway of worn stone, which, if you pass
through it, shows like an avenue from the present to the past; for just
in the rear of the new-fangled aspect lurks the old arrangement of
court-yards, and rustiness, and grimness, that would not be suspected
from the exterior.

Right across the narrow street stands St. Michael's Church with its tall,
tall tower and spire.  The body of the church has been almost entirely
recased with stone since I was here before; but the tower still retains
its antiquity, and is decorated with statues that look down from their
lofty niches seemingly in good preservation.  The tower and spire are
most stately and beautiful, the whole church very noble.  We went in, and
found that the vulgar plaster of Cromwell's time has been scraped from
the pillars and arches, leaving them all as fresh and splendid as if just
made.

We looked also into Trinity Church, which stands close by St. Michael's,
separated only, I think, by the churchyard.  We also visited St. John's
Church, which is very venerable as regards its exterior, the stone being
worn and smoothed--if not roughened, rather--by centuries of storm and
fitful weather.  This wear and tear, however, has almost ceased to be a
charm to my mind, comparatively to what it was when I first began to see
old buildings.  Within, the church is spoiled by wooden galleries, built
across the beautiful pointed arches.

We saw nothing else particularly worthy of remark except Ford's Hospital,
in Grey Friars' Street.  It has an Elizabethan front of timber and
plaster, facing on the street, with two or three peaked gables in a row,
beneath which is a low, arched entrance, giving admission into a small
paved quadrangle, open to the sky above, but surrounded by the walls,
lozenge-paned windows, and gables of the Hospital.  The quadrangle is but
a few paces in width, and perhaps twenty in length; and, through a
half-closed doorway, at the farther end, there was a glimpse into a
garden.  Just within the entrance, through an open door, we saw the neat
and comfortable apartment of the Matron of the Hospital; and, along the
quadrangle, on each side, there were three or four doors, through which
we glanced into little rooms, each containing a fireplace, a bed, a chair
or two,--a little, homely, domestic scene, with one old woman in the
midst of it; one old woman in each room.  They are destitute widows, who
have their lodging and home here,--a small room for each one to sleep,
cook, and be at home in,--and three and sixpence a week to feed and
clothe themselves with,--a cloak being the only garment bestowed on them.
When one of the sisterhood dies each old woman has to pay twopence
towards the funeral; and so they slowly starve and wither out of life,
and claim each their twopence contribution in turn.  I am afraid they
have a very dismal time.

There is an old man's hospital in another part of the town, on a similar
plan.  A collection of sombre and lifelike tales might be written on the
idea of giving the experiences of these Hospitallers, male and female;
and they might be supposed to be written by the Matron of one, who had
acquired literary taste and practice as a governess,--and by the Master
of the other, a retired school-usher.

It was market-day in Coventry, and far adown the street leading from it
there were booths and stalls, and apples, pears, toys, books, among which
I saw my Twice-Told Tales, with an awful portrait of myself as
frontispiece,--and various country produce, offered for sale by men,
women, and girls.  The scene looked lively, but had not much vivacity in
it.


October 27th.--The autumn has advanced progressively, and is now fairly
established, though still there is much green foliage, in spite of many
brown trees, and an enormous quantity of withered leaves, too damp to
rustle, strewing the paths,--whence, however, they are continually swept
up and carried off in wheelbarrows, either for neatness or for the
agricultural worth, as manure, of even a withered leaf.  The pastures
look just as green as ever,--a deep, bright verdure, that seems almost
sunshine in itself, however sombre the sky may be.  The little plats of
grass and flowers, in front of our circle of houses, might still do
credit to an American midsummer; for I have seen beautiful roses here
within a day or two; and dahlias, asters, and such autumnal flowers, are
plentiful; and I have no doubt that the old year's flowers will bloom
till those of the new year appear.  Really, the English winter is not so
terrible as ours.


October 30th.--Wednesday was one of the most beautiful of all days, and
gilded almost throughout with the precious English sunshine,--the most
delightful sunshine ever made, both for its positive fine qualities and
because we seldom get it without too great an admixture of water.  We
made no use of this lovely day, except to walk to an Arboretum and
Pinetum on the outskirts of the town.  U---- and Mrs. Shepard made an
excursion to Guy's Cliff.

[Here comes in the visit to Leicester's Hospital and Redfern's Shop, and
St. Mary's Church, printed in Our Old Home.--ED.]

From Redfern's we went back to the market-place, expecting to find J-----
at the Museum, but the keeper said he had gone away.  We went into this
museum, which contains the collections in Natural History, etc., of a
county society.  It is very well arranged, and is rich in specimens of
ornithology, among which was an albatross, huge beyond imagination.  I do
not think that Coleridge could have known the size of the fowl when he
caused it to be hung round the neck of his Ancient Mariner.  There were a
great many humming-birds from various parts of the world, and some of
their breasts actually gleamed and shone as with the brightest lustre of
sunset.  Also, many strange fishes, and a huge pike taken from the river
Avon, and so long that I wonder how he could turn himself about in such a
little river as the Avon is near Warwick.  A great curiosity was a bunch
of skeleton leaves and flowers, prepared by a young lady, and preserving
all the most delicate fibres of the plant, looking like inconceivably
fine lace-work, white as snow, while the substance was quite taken away.
In another room there were minerals, shells, and a splendid collection of
fossils, among which were remains of antediluvian creatures, several feet
long.  In still another room, we saw some historical curiosities,--the
most interesting of which were two locks of reddish-brown hair, one from
the head and one from the beard of Edward IV.  They were fastened to a
manuscript letter which authenticates the hair as having been taken from
King Edward's tomb in 1739.  Near these relics was a seal of the great
Earl of Warwick, the mighty kingmaker; also a sword from Bosworth Field,
smaller and shorter than those now in use; for, indeed, swords seem to
have increased in length, weight, and formidable aspect, now that the
weapon has almost ceased to be used in actual warfare.  The short Roman
sword was probably more murderous than any weapon of the same species,
except the bowie-knife.  Here, too, were Parliamentary cannon-balls,
etc. . . .

[The visit to Whitnash intervenes here.--ED.]


LONDON.


24 Great Russell Street, November 10th.--We have been thinking and
negotiating about taking lodgings in London lately, and this morning we
left Leamington and reached London with no other misadventure than that
of leaving the great bulk of our luggage behind us,--the van which we
hired to take it to the railway station having broken down under its
prodigious weight, in the middle of the street.  On our journey we saw
nothing particularly worthy of note,--but everywhere the immortal verdure
of England, scarcely less perfect than in June, so far as the fields are
concerned, though the foliage of the trees presents pretty much the same
hues as those of our own forests, after the gayety and gorgeousness have
departed from them.

Our lodgings are in close vicinity to the British Museum, which is the
great advantage we took them for.

I felt restless and uncomfortable, and soon strolled forth, without any
definite object, and walked as far as Charing Cross.  Very dull and
dreary the city looked, and not in the least lively, even where the
throng was thickest and most brisk.  As I trudged along, my reflection
was, that never was there a dingier, uglier, less picturesque city than
London; and that it is really wonderful that so much brick and stone, for
centuries together, should have been built up with so poor a result.  Yet
these old names of the city--Fleet Street, Ludgate Hill, the Strand-used
to throw a glory over these homely precincts when I first saw them, and
still do so in a less degree.  Where Farrington Street opens upon Fleet
Street, moreover, I had a glimpse of St. Paul's, along Ludgate Street, in
the gathering dimness, and felt as if I saw an old friend.  In that
neighborhood--speaking of old friends--I met Mr. Parker of Boston, who
told me sad news of a friend whom I love as much as if I had known him
for a lifetime, though he is, indeed, but of two or three years'
standing.  He said that my friend's bankruptcy is in to-day's Gazette.
Of all men on earth, I had rather this misfortune should have happened to
any other; but I hope and think he has sturdiness and buoyancy enough to
rise up beneath it.  I cannot conceive of his face otherwise than with a
glow on it, like that of the sun at noonday.

Before I reached our lodgings, the dusk settled into the streets, and a
mist bedewed and bedamped me, and I went astray, as is usual with me, and
had to inquire my way; indeed, except in the principal thoroughfares,
London is so miserably lighted that it is impossible to recognize one's
whereabouts.  On my arrival I found our parlor looking cheerful with a
brisk fire; . . . . but the first day or two in new lodgings is at best
an uncomfortable time.  Fanny has just come in with more unhappy news
about ------.  Pray Heaven it may not be true! . . . . Troubles are a
sociable brotherhood; they love to come hand in hand, or sometimes, even,
to come side by side, with long looked-for and hoped-for good
fortune. . . .


November 11th.--This morning we all went to the British Museum, always a
most wearisome and depressing task to me.  I strolled through the lower
rooms with a good degree of interest, looking at the antique sculptures,
some of which were doubtless grand and beautiful in their day. . . .
The Egyptian remains are, on the whole, the more satisfactory; for,
though inconceivably ugly, they are at least miracles of size and
ponderosity,--for example, a hand and arm of polished granite, as much as
ten feet in length.  The upper rooms, containing millions of specimens of
Natural History, in all departments, really made my heart ache with a
pain and woe that I have never felt anywhere but in the British Museum,
and I hurried through them as rapidly as I could persuade J----- to
follow me.  We had left the rest of the party still intent on the Grecian
sculptures; and though J----- was much interested in the vast collection
of shells, he chose to quit the Museum with me in the prospect of a
stroll about London.  He seems to have my own passion for thronged
streets, and the utmost bustle of human life.

We went first to the railway station, in quest of our luggage, which we
found.  Then we made a pretty straight course down to Holborn, and
through Newgate Street, stopping a few moments to look through the iron
fence at the Christ's Hospital boys, in their long blue coats and yellow
petticoats and stockings.  It was between twelve and one o'clock; and I
suppose this was their hour of play, for they were running about the
enclosed space, chasing and overthrowing one another, without their caps,
with their yellow petticoats tucked up, and all in immense activity and
enjoyment.  They were eminently a healthy and handsome set of boys.

Then we went into Cheapside, where I called at Mr. Bennett's shop, to
inquire what are the facts about ------.  When I mentioned his name, Mr.
Bennett shook his head and expressed great sorrow; but, on further talk,
I found that he referred only to the failure, and had heard nothing about
the other rumor.  It cannot, therefore, be true; for Bennett lives in his
neighborhood, and could not have remained ignorant of such a calamity.
There must be some mistake; none, however, in regard to the failure, it
having been announced in the Times.

From Bennett's shop--which is so near the steeple of Bow Church that it
would tumble upon it if it fell over--we strolled still eastward, aiming
at London Bridge; but missed it, and bewildered ourselves among many
dingy and frowzy streets and lanes.  I bore towards the right, however,
knowing that that course must ultimately bring me to the Thames; and at
last I saw before me ramparts, towers, circular and square, with
battlemented summits, large sweeps and curves of fortification, as well
as straight and massive walls and chimneys behind them (all a great
confusion--to my eye), of ancient and more modern structure, and four
loftier turrets rising in the midst; the whole great space surrounded by
a broad, dry moat, which now seemed to be used as an ornamental walk,
bordered partly with trees.  This was the Tower; but seen from a
different and more picturesque point of view than I have heretofore
gained of it.  Being so convenient for a visit, I determined to go in.
At the outer gate, which is not a part of the fortification, a sentinel
walks to and fro, besides whom there was a warder, in the rich old
costume of Henry VIII's time, looking very gorgeous indeed,--as much so
as scarlet and gold can make him.

As J----- and I were not going to look at the Jewel-room, we loitered
about in the open space, before the White Tower, while the tall, slender,
white-haired, gentlemanly warder led the rest of the party into that
apartment.  _Your time is the Lord's._ You have no right to waste it
in useless attention to dress. One of the greatest evils of the
present extravagant modes of dress is, that so much precious time is
consumed at the toilet.
I have already shown the value and importance of time, and the obligations
of Christians to spend it in the most profitable manner. I need not here
advance any new arguments to show that, if you spend any more time than
is necessary in the adjustment of your apparel, you sin against God.

3. _It is the duty to pay some regard to personal appearance._ A
Christian lady, by making herself a _slattern_, brings reproach upon
the cause of Christ, instead of glorifying God. The apostle
enjoins upon women to adorn themselves with _modest_ apparel. Modesty
signifies _purity of sentiment and manners._ When this idea is applied
to dress, it immediately suggests to the mind a neatness, taste, and
simplicity of dress, alike opposed both to extravagance and finery,
and to negligence and vulgar coarseness. The exercise of a refined taste,
in the adaptation and adjustment of apparel, may also be justified by
the analogy of nature. Look abroad over the landscape, and see with
what exquisite taste God has clothed the flowers of the field. There
is a symmetry of proportion, a skilfulness of arrangement, and a fitness
and adaptation of colors, which strike the eye with unmingled pleasure.
And if God has shown a scrupulous regard to the pleasure of the eye,
we may do the same. This opinion is also confirmed by the practical influence
of the gospel.

This is particularly observable among the poor in our own land. Just in
proportion as the religion of Jesus prevails among this class of people,
you will see a scrupulous attention to personal appearance. By this, I
do not mean the _pride of appearance_; but a decency, modesty, and
propriety, opposed to negligence, coarseness, and vulgarity. But
this is more strikingly manifest among those people who have been but
recently raised, by the influence of the gospel, from the lowest depths
of heathenism. Of this, you will be convinced by examining the history
of the missions among the North American Indians, and the South Sea
Islands. The same principles will also apply to equipage and household
arrangements. Such regard to comfort and decency of appearance as will
strike the eye with pleasure, and shed around an air of cheerfulness,
doubtless contributes to moral improvement, and is not only authorized,
but required, by the spirit of the gospel.

But this is a dangerous point. There is such a tendency in the human mind
to mistake gayety and extravagance for neatness and propriety; and
so much temptation to the indulgence of pride and vanity, that you
have need of constant watchfulness, that in no respect your heart
may lead you astray in this matter.

You ought to make it a subject of daily prayer.

4. _Have a regard to health._ The duty of using all proper means for the
preservation of health, I have already considered. Among these means,
attention to dress is not the least important. Great care should always
be taken that it be suited to the season, and a defence against the
inclemency of the weather. This is a Christian duty; and any pride
of appearance, or carelessness of habit, which leads you to neglect
it, is _sin_.

But, above all things, avoid the compression of any part of the body, for
the purpose of improving the appearance. This is a most pernicious practice.
It is astonishing that intelligent ladies can so blindly follow the
mandates of fashion, as to indulge a habit so destructive of comfort and
life. There is no part of the system, not even the extremity of a limb,
which can suffer violent compression, without interrupting the regular
circulation of the blood. But, when this pressure is about the
chest, the effect is most destructive. The lungs, subject as they
are to alternate distension and compression, from receiving and
discharging both the blood and the breath, require the most perfect
freedom. But when the chest is so compressed as to prevent the free play
of the lungs, the whole system of respiration and circulation is deranged.
The consequences are, shortness of breath, faintness, impeded circulation,
producing listlessness and languor; and inclination of the blood to the
head, producing headache and distressing dizziness. And, if this course
is long persisted in, destruction of health is the inevitable conscience;
and often the poor deluded victim of a barbarous fashion pays the forfeit
of her life. I have heard of many cases of death from this cause;
three of which occurred _in one family_, within the circle of my acquaintance.
I need use no argument, then, to convince a Christian lady, that it is her
duty to avoid this species of conformity to the world. I can regard it
in no other light than a palpable violation of the sixth commandment.

5. _Do not make too much of the matter of dress._ It is our duty to avoid
every species of conformity to the world which requires the sacrifice
of religious principle.

But, in things indifferent, we are allowed to conform to the customs of
society. I do not think there is much danger of observing excessive
plainness of apparel; but there is danger of making so much account
of it as to cultivate a self-righteous spirit.

It is remarkable that in almost every system of false religion, precise
forms of dress are prescribed; especially for those who are devoted
to what is termed a _religious life_; whereas, in the Bible, it is
left to be regulated by the general principles and spirit of
Christianity, with an occasional caution against extravagance; and
it does not appear that Christ and the apostles and the early
Christians adopted any peculiarity of dress.

From the description given of the wardrobe of our Saviour, it is probable
that he wore the common dress of a religious teacher. There is such a
thing as a pride of singularity; and this is often manifested in the
preparation and adjustment of the wardrobe. Satan is ever on the alert,
to observe the bent of the mind, and carry it to extremes. Be not ignorant
of his devices. Watch and pray, that you enter not into temptation.

Your affectionate Brother.

LETTER XV.

_Social and Relative Duties._
"All things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even
so to them." MATT. 7:12.

MY DEAR SISTER,
We are formed for society; and whoever refuses social intercourse with his
fellow-beings, and lives to himself, violates an established law
of nature.

But the operation of this general principle creates the necessity of
particular laws for the regulation of that intercourse.
Hence, a numerous train of duties arise out of our social relations. And
those duties enter more or less into the common concerns of life, according
as these relations are more or less remote. The first relation which
the Lord has established among men, is that of the _family_. This was
established in Paradise; and it has been preserved, in all ages of the
world, and in all countries, with more or less distinctness, according to
the degree of moral principle which has prevailed. The Scriptures are
very particular in describing this relation, as it existed in the
patriarchal ages. It has its foundation in the fitness of things; and
hence the duties arising out of it are very properly classed as _moral_
duties. Of such consequence does the Lord regard this relation, that
he has given it a place in the decalogue. Three of the ten commandments
have particular reference to the family relation. From the first institution
of this relation, we learn that the father and mother are to
constitute the united head of the family. "_They twain shall be one
flesh._" Authority is therefore doubtless vested in them both, to
exercise jointly. But, since the fall, when mankind became perverse and
self-willed, the nature and fitness of things seem to require that
there should be a precedence of authority, in case of a division of the
united head. This precedence, the Scriptures clearly and distinctly
point out. One of the curses pronounced upon the woman, after the fall,
was, that her husband should rule over her. This principle was carried
out in the families of the patriarchs. The apostle Peter says, that the
holy women of old adorned themselves with a meek and quiet spirit, and
were in subjection to their own husbands: and particularly notice the
conduct of Sarah, the mother of the Jewish nation, who _obeyed_ Abraham,
calling him lord. The same principle is repeatedly taught in the New
Testament. "Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands, as unto
the Lord." "As the Church is subject unto Christ, so let the wives be
to their own husbands in everything." "Let the wife see that she reverence
her husband." "Likewise ye wives be in subjection to your own
husbands." There can be no room for doubt, then, on this subject. But,
where Christian principle prevails with both parties, there will
be rarely, if ever, occasion to exercise this authority.

The fifth commandment teaches the duty of subordination to the head of the
family, not only on the part of the children themselves, but of every
member of the household. So far as the general interests of the family
are concerned, persons residing in it are regarded in the same light as
children; subject to all its laws, rules and regulations. Thus the Lord
speaks of Abraham: "I know him that he will command his children _and his
household_ after him, and they shall keep the way of the Lord." The
principle is here recognized, that Abraham had a right to
_command_, not only his own children, but all his household. And
the same may also be inferred from the language of the fourth
commandment.
It is addressed to the head of the family, and enjoins upon him to see
that no labor is performed on the Sabbath, by any of his household, not
even excepting the _stranger_ that is within his gates.

The duty of the younger members of the family to respect the elder, may
be inferred,--1. From the nature and fitness of things. The elder brethren
and sisters are the superiors of the younger, in age and experience, and
generally in wisdom and knowledge. They are better qualified to take the
lead, and therefore entitled to respect and deference. 2. The same thing
may also be inferred from the precedence always given in Scripture to
the first-born.

But the great household duty is LOVE. If this is properly discharged,
it will set all other matters right. If this is wanting, there will be a
lack of everything else. The Scriptures insist upon the duty of brotherly
love. "Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to
dwell together in unity!"

Christ, in his sermon on the mount, severely rebukes the indulgence
of anger, and the want of kindness and courtesy among brethren. And the
apostle John says, that "whosoever hateth his brother, is a murderer."
A kind, tender-hearted, affectionate, and peaceful temper, should be
maintained, in all the intercourse of different members of the same
family.

But as mankind began to multiply, it became necessary that the social
relations should be extended. A number of families, residing near each
other, formed a neighborhood, or community. This gave rise to the new
relation of neighbor, from the necessity of intercourse between families.
This was again extended, to the formation of nations and kingdoms. But
all these various relations are subject to the same great laws as
those of the family; for they have grown out of them. The same principle
which requires subordination to the head of the family, requires
also deference to the elders of a community, and subordination to
the rulers of the nation.

And the same principle which requires the exercise of kindness, gentleness,
meekness, forbearance, condescension and love, between the members of
the same family, requires the exercise of similar dispositions between
individuals of the same community and nation. The principle is also still
farther extended, embracing the whole world as one great family; and
requiring the exercise of love and the practice of benevolence towards
all mankind. "Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man, for the Lord's
sake." "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself."
But, in consequence of the fall, another most interesting relation has
been established.

Out of this apostate world, God has chosen himself a family. Of this
family, Christ is the head, and his people are the members. Here are the
same relations as in the natural family; but they are different in their
nature. They are spiritual, and, of course, of higher obligation.
We are required to love Christ more than father or mother. And the Lord
Jesus says with emphasis, "This is my commandment, that ye love one
another." I have no doubt that, when grace is in full exercise in the
heart, the brotherly love which Christians exercise towards one
another is far stronger than the natural affection which exists between
brothers and sisters of the same family.

From this general view of the social relations, we may gather the
following rules of conduct:

1. Endeavor to render to all the members of the family in which you reside
just that degree of deference and respect which belongs to them.
Conscientiously regard the rules and regulations introduced by the head of
the family, unless they are contrary to the word of God. In such case you
should leave the family; because your relative duties would interfere
with your duty to God.

[M] Remember, it is in the domestic circle where your character is to be
formed. It is here that your disposition is to be tried, and your piety
cultivated. Endeavor, then, to maintain, in your family intercourse, the
same dignity and propriety of deportment which you wish to sustain in
society. Never descend to anything at the fireside which you would despise
in a more extended circle. Bring the most minute actions of your daily
life to the test of Christian principle. Remember that, in the sight
of God, there are no _little sins_. The least transgression is sufficient
to condemn the soul forever. "He that offendeth in one point is guilty
of all." Especially avoid the indulgence of a selfish disposition.
It is both unamiable and unchristian. Be always ready to sacrifice your
own feelings, when by so doing you can give pleasure to others. Study
the wishes and feelings of others, and prefer them to your own. Manifest
a disinterestedness of feeling. Strive to be helpful to others, even
at the expense of personal feeling and interest. "Look not every man on
his own things, but every man on the things of others." "Charity seeketh
not her own." Be kind to all; respectful towards superiors, courteous
to equals, and condescending to inferiors. Be particularly careful not to
trample upon the feelings of servants. Nothing can be more unamiable.
If you cultivate these dispositions and principles of action habitually,
in the domestic circle, they will become so natural and easy as to flow
out spontaneously in every circle in which you move. And this will
call forth the love and esteem of all your acquaintance. It will bring
honor upon your profession, increase your influence, and
thereby enable you to do more for the glory of God.

[Footnote M: This direction would not be proper for a minor, in her
father's house, or in the place provided by a guardian. In such cases, it
would be duty to remain, and submit to the penalty of disobedience;
remembering that it is a blessing to be persecuted for righteousness'
sake.] 
2.

_There are special duties growing out of your relation to the church._
Some of these I have considered in former letters. But I have particular
reference now to _social_ duties. You are to regard all the members of the
church as brothers and sisters. You are to love them just in
proportion as they are like Christ. It is the appearance of the
image of Jesus, alone, in our Christian brethren, which can call forth the
spiritual exercise of brotherly love. I say the _appearance_ of
the image of Christ, because we may be deceived as to the existence of
that image in the hearts of others, and yet our love may be as sincere
and fervent as if the image were genuine. No Christian duty is more
insisted on in Scripture than brotherly love. It is repeatedly enjoined
by our Lord and his apostles. It is so essential a part of the
Christian character, that it is mentioned by the beloved disciple as one
of the principal evidences of the new birth. Now, how do we manifest our
love to our brothers and sisters? We delight in their society. We love
to meet them, to talk about each other's interests, and the interests
of the family in general. So, if you love your brethren and sisters
in the church, you will delight in their society; you will love to
meet with them, to interchange kind offices; to talk of the difficulties,
trials, hopes, fears, joys, and sorrows, of the way to the heavenly Canaan;
and to speak of the interests of the great spiritual family to
which you belong.

Hence, I argue the duty of social intercourse among Christians.
But, it is to be greatly feared that the real object of such intercourse
is too frequently overlooked. How often do Christians meet, and talk
about "trifles light as air," without once speaking of subjects which,
according to their profession, lie nearest their hearts. This ought not
so to be. It is a sinful conformity to the spirit of the world. The great
object of social intercourse among Christians should be, to promote
brotherly love and Christian fellowship. And how can these ends be answered,
when their conversation is altogether about the affairs of the world? I
do not say that it is wrong to talk about these things. The smallest
matters claim a portion of our attention. But it is wrong to make them
the principal topics of conversation, to the exclusion of heavenly things.
When we do speak of them, it should be with some good end in view; and
our conversation should always be seasoned by the application of
Christian principle to all subjects.

In addition to the general obligation of social intercourse among
Christians, there are some particular duties which they owe to one another.
They are to exercise mutual forbearance and tenderness towards each
other's faults, and, at the same time, to watch over and admonish one
another. Whenever you see a brother or a sister out of the way, it is
your duty, with meekness, tenderly and kindly to administer reproof.
"If a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual restore
such an one in the spirit of meekness." "With all lowliness and meekness,
with long-suffering, _forbearing one another in love_." In all cases,
where one is to be selected for the performance of a particular duty,
which may seem to confer honor, prefer others to yourself. "In honor
preferring one another." "In lowliness of mind, let each esteem other
better than themselves." "Yea, all of you, be subject one to
another, and be clothed with humility."

"Submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God." Yet, do not carry
this principle so far as to refuse to act where duty calls. A
disposition to be backward in such matters is often a serious hindrance
to benevolent effort. Be always ready to engage in any enterprise for
doing good; but prefer the office which requires the most labor with the
least honor. Christians ought also to take delight in assisting
each other; and to feel personally interested in each other's
welfare. In short, the feeling that pervades the church should be
preeminently a FAMILY FEELING.

3. _There are also some special duties growing out of your relations
to general society._ Be ever ready to interchange kind offices with
every one who maintains a decent moral deportment; and be kind and
compassionate, even to the vicious, so far as you can, without associating
with them on terms of equality. By this means you may win the affections
of impenitent sinners, and thereby secure their attention to direct
efforts for the salvation of their souls. But, you should never
suffer your feelings of complacency and good-will towards those who are
destitute of piety, to lead you to conform to the spirit of the world
which influences their conduct. Your social intercourse with them should
be regulated upon this principle. Never go any farther into their
society than you can carry your religion with you. "Be not conformed to
this world."
4. _Although it be your duty to visit, yet, in this matter, be careful
to be governed by religious principle._ There is, in the human mind, a
tendency to run into extremes in everything. Against this you need
especially to be on your guard in social intercourse.

When visiting is excessive, it dissipates the mind, and unfits it for
any laborious employment. When this state of mind becomes habitual, a
person is never easy except when in company. The most vigorous mind
may thus be rendered comparatively inert and powerless. But, on the
other hand, by shutting yourself out from society, you will dry up the
social feelings of the heart; you will acquire a monkish love of
solitude; and your temper will become soured towards your fellow-beings.
You must therefore give to visiting its proper place in the routine
of Christian duty. That place is just the one which it can occupy
without encroaching upon more important duties. It should be the Christian's
_recreation_. Seasons of relaxation from the more laborious duties of life
are undoubtedly necessary; and I know of nothing which can better answer
this end than the intelligent and pious conversation of Christian
friends. Your friends have claims upon your time and attention. But,
these claims can never extend so far as to encroach upon more important
duties, or to impair your ability to do good to yourself and others. As
soon as you discover a secret uneasiness, when out of company, or
whenever you find that the demands of the social circle have led
you to neglect other duties, it is time to diminish the number of
your visits.

But do not, on such occasions, violate Christian sincerity, by inventing
excuses to satisfy your friends. Tell them plainly your reasons,
and if they are really what they profess to be, they will see the
propriety of your conduct, and be satisfied.

5. _Never go into company where the spirit and maxims of the world
predominate._ I know this will cut you off from a large portion of
society, yet, I believe it to be a rule founded upon the word of God.
If we would not be conformed to the world, we must not follow its maxims
nor partake of its spirit. I know it is often said we should go into
such society for the purpose of exerting a religious influence.
But the practical result is directly the contrary. The spirit which
prevails in such company is destructive of all religious feeling:
it freezes up the warm affections of the Christian's heart. The
consequence is, he is ashamed to acknowledge his Master, and avow
his principles, where the prevailing current is against him. He
therefore moves along with it, to the injury of his own soul, and
the wounding of his Master's cause. His worldly companions see no
difference between his conduct and their own; and conclude, either
that all is right with themselves, or that he is a hypocrite. Large
parties, as a general rule, are unfriendly to the health both of
body and soul. The most profitable kind of social intercourse is
the informal meting of small circles, of which a sufficient number
are pious to give a direction and tone to conversation.
6. _When in company, labor to give a profitable direction to
conversation._ If there are elder persons present, who introduce
general discourse of a profitable character, let your words be few.Certainly, in both cases, scenes and objects of a past age are
here more vividly presented to the dullest mind than without such
material facilities they could possibly be brought before the most
powerful imagination.  Truly, the Crystal Palace, in all its departments,
offers wonderful means of education.  I marvel what will come of it.
Among the things that I admired most was Benvenuto Cellini's statue of
Perseus holding the head of Medusa, and standing over her headless and
still writhing body, out of which, at the severed neck, gushed a vast
exuberance of snakes.  Likewise, a sitting statue, by Michel Angelo, of
one of the Medici, full of dignity and grace and reposeful might.  Also
the bronze gate of a baptistery in Florence, carved all over with
relieves of Scripture subjects, executed in the most lifelike and
expressive manner.  The cast itself was a miracle of art.  I should have
taken it for the genuine original bronze.

We then wandered into the House of Diomed, which seemed to me a dismal
abode, affording no possibility of comfort.  We sat down in one of the
rooms, on an iron bench, very cold.

It being by this time two o'clock, we went to the Refreshment-room and
lunched; and before we had finished our repast, my wife discovered that
she had lost her sable tippet, which she had been carrying on her arm.
Mr. Silsbee most kindly and obligingly immediately went in quest of
it, . . . . but to no purpose. . . .

Upon entering the Tropical Saloon, we found a most welcome and delightful
change of temperature among those gigantic leaves of banyan-trees, and
the broad expanse of water-plants, floating on lakes, and spacious
aviaries, where birds of brilliant plumage sported and sang amid such
foliage as they knew at home.  Howbeit, the atmosphere was a little faint
and sickish, perhaps owing to the odor of the half-tepid water.  The most
remarkable object here was the trunk of a tree, huge beyond imagination,
--a pine-tree from California.  It was only the stripped-off bark,
however, which had been conveyed hither in segments, and put together
again beyond the height of the palace roof; and the hollow interior
circle of the tree was large enough to contain fifty people, I should
think.  We entered and sat down in all the remoteness from one another
that is attainable in a good-sized drawing-room.  We then ascended the
gallery to get a view of this vast tree from a more elevated position,
and found it looked even bigger from above.  Then we loitered slowly
along the gallery as far as it extended, and afterwards descended into
the nave; for it was getting dusk, and a horn had sounded, and a bell
rung a warning to such as delayed in the remote regions of the building.
Mr. Silsbee again most kindly went in quest of the sables, but still
without success. . . . I have not much enjoyed the Crystal Palace, but
think it a great and admirable achievement.


November 19th.--On Tuesday evening Mr. Silsbee came to read some letters
which he has written to his friends, chiefly giving his observations on
Art, together with descriptions of Venice and other cities on the
Continent.  They were very good, and indicate much sensibility and
talent.  After the reading we had a little oyster-supper and wine.

I had written a note to ------, and received an answer, indicating that
he was much weighed down by his financial misfortune. . . . However, he
desired me to come and see him; so yesterday morning I wended my way down
into the city, and after various reluctant circumlocutions arrived at his
house.  The interior looked confused and dismal.

It seems to me nobody else runs such risks as a man of business, because
he risks everything.  Every other man, into whatever depth of poverty he
may sink, has still something left, be he author, scholar, handicraftman,
or what not; the merchant has nothing.

We parted with a long and strong grasp of the hand, and ------ promised
to come and see us soon. . . .

On my way home I called at Truebner's in Pater Noster Row. . . . I
waited a few minutes, he being busy with a tall, muscular, English-built
man, who, after he had taken leave, Truebner told me was Charles Reade.
I once met him at an evening party, but should have been glad to meet him
again, now that I appreciate him so much better after reading Never too
Late to Mend.


December 6th.--All these days, since my last date, have been marked by
nothing very well worthy of detail and description.  I have walked the
streets a great deal in the dull November days, and always take a certain
pleasure in being in the midst of human life,--as closely encompassed by
it as it is possible to be anywhere in this world; and in that way of
viewing it there is a dull and sombre enjoyment always to be had in
Holborn, Fleet Street, Cheapside, and the other busiest parts of London.
It is human life; it is this material world; it is a grim and heavy
reality.  I have never had the same sense of being surrounded by
materialisms and hemmed in with the grossness of this earthly existence
anywhere else; these broad, crowded streets are so evidently the veins
and arteries of an enormous city.  London is evidenced in every one of
them, just as a megatherium is in each of its separate bones, even if
they be small ones.  Thus I never fail of a sort of self-congratulation
in finding myself, for instance, passing along Ludgate Hill; but, in
spite of this, it is really an ungladdened life to wander through these
huge, thronged ways, over a pavement foul with mud, ground into it by a
million of footsteps; jostling against people who do not seem to be
individuals, but all one mass, so homogeneous is the street-walking
aspect of them; the roar of vehicles pervading me,--wearisome cabs and
omnibuses; everywhere the dingy brick edifices heaving themselves up, and
shutting out all but a strip of sullen cloud, that serves London for a
sky,--in short, a general impression of grime and sordidness; and at this
season always a fog scattered along the vista of streets, sometimes so
densely as almost to spiritualize the materialism and make the scene
resemble the other world of worldly people, gross even in ghostliness.
It is strange how little splendor and brilliancy one sees in London,--in
the city almost none, though some in the shops of Regent Street.  My wife
has had a season of indisposition within the last few weeks, so that my
rambles have generally been solitary, or with J----- only for a
companion.  I think my only excursion with my wife was a week ago, when
we went to Lincoln's Inn Fields, which truly are almost fields right in
the heart of London, and as retired and secluded as if the surrounding
city were a forest, and its heavy roar were the wind among the branches.
We gained admission into the noble Hall, which is modern, but built in
antique style, and stately and beautiful exceedingly.  I have forgotten
all but the general effect, with its lofty oaken roof, its panelled
walls, with the windows high above, and the great arched window at one
end full of painted coats of arms, which the light glorifies in passing
through them, as if each were the escutcheon of some illustrious
personage.  Thence we went to the chapel of Lincoln's Inn, where, on
entering, we found a class of young choristers receiving instruction from
their music-master, while the organ accompanied their strains.  These
young, clear, fresh, elastic voices are wonderfully beautiful; they are
like those of women, yet have something more birdlike and aspiring, more
like what one conceives of the singing of angels.  As for the singing of
saints and blessed spirits that have once been human, it never can
resemble that of these young voices; for no duration of heavenly
enjoyments will ever quite take the mortal sadness out of it.

In this chapel we saw some painted windows of the time of James I., a
period much subsequent, to the age when painted glass was in its glory;
but the pictures of Scriptural people in these windows were certainly
very fine,--the figures being as large as life, and the faces having much
expression.  The sunshine came in through some of them, and produced a
beautiful effect, almost as if the painted forms were the glorified
spirits of those holy personages.

After leaving Lincoln's Inn, we looked at Gray's Inn, which is a great,
quiet domain, quadrangle beyond quadrangle, close beside Holborn, and a
large space of greensward enclosed within it.  It is very strange to find
so much of ancient quietude right in the monster city's very jaws, which
yet the monster shall not eat up,--right in its very belly, indeed, which
yet, in all these ages, it shall not digest and convert into the same
substance as the rest of its bustling streets.  Nothing else in London is
so like the effect of a spell, as to pass under one of these archways,
and find yourself transported from the jumble, mob, tumult, uproar, as of
an age of week-days condensed into the present hour, into what seems an
eternal sabbath.  Thence we went into Staple Inn, I think it was,--which
has a front upon Holborn of four or five ancient gables in a row, and a
low arch under the impending story, admitting you into a paved
quadrangle, beyond which you have the vista of another.  I do not
understand that the residences and chambers in these Inns of Court are
now exclusively let to lawyers; though such inhabitants certainly seem to
preponderate there.

On the contrary, the most easy and most natural way would be to banish
even the thoughts of them; they will not come soon enough; their true
being will not continue with us long enough; our mind must lengthen
and extend them; we must incorporate them in us beforehand, and there
entertain them, as if they would not otherwise sufficiently press upon
our senses. "We shall find them heavy enough when they come," says one
of our masters, of none of the tender sects, but of the most severe;
"in the meantime, favour thyself; believe what pleases thee
best; what good will it do thee to anticipate thy ill fortune,
to lose the present for fear of the future: and to make thyself miserable
now, because thou art to be so in time?" These are his words.
Science, indeed, does us one good office in instructing us exactly as to
the dimensions of evils,
"Curis acuens mortalia corda!"
["Probing mortal hearts with cares."--Virgil, Georg., i. 23.]
'Twere pity that any part of their greatness should escape our sense
and knowledge.

'Tis certain that for the most part the preparation for death has
administered more torment than the thing itself. It was of old truly said,
and by a very judicious author:
"Minus afficit sensus fatigatio, quam cogitatio."
["Suffering itself less afflicts the senses than the apprehension
of suffering."--Quintilian, Inst. Orat., i. 12.]I have forgotten to
mention what, I think, produced more effect on me than anything else,
namely, the clash of the bells from the steeple of St. Martin's Church
and those of St. Margaret.  Really, London seemed to cry out through
them, and bid welcome to the Queen.


December 7th.--This being a muddy and dismal day, I went only to the


BRITISH MUSEUM,


which is but a short walk down the street (Great Russell Street).  I have
now visited it often enough to be on more familiar terms with it than at
first, and therefore do not feel myself so weighed down by the many
things to be seen.  I have ceased to expect or hope or wish to devour and
digest the whole enormous collection; so I content myself with individual
things, and succeed in getting now and then a little honey from them.
Unless I were studying some particular branch of history or science or
art, this is the best that can be done with the British Museum.

I went first to-day into the Townley Gallery, and so along through all
the ancient sculpture, and was glad to find myself able to sympathize
more than heretofore with the forms of grace and beauty which are
preserved there,--poor, maimed immortalities as they are,--headless and
legless trunks, godlike cripples, faces beautiful and broken-nosed,--
heroic shapes which have stood so long, or lain prostrate so long, in the
open air, that even the atmosphere of Greece has almost dissolved the
external layer of the marble; and yet, however much they may be worn
away, or battered and shattered, the grace and nobility seem as deep in
them as the very heart of the stone.  It cannot be destroyed, except by
grinding them to powder.  In short, I do really believe that there was an
excellence in ancient sculpture, which has yet a potency to educate and
refine the minds of those who look at it even so carelessly and casually
as I do.  As regards the frieze of the Parthenon, I must remark that the
horses represented on it, though they show great spirit and lifelikeness,
are rather of the pony species than what would be considered fine horses
now.  D. should be quoted: "I have seen many of the Germans, their doctors
for instance, look after the poor and the sick with utter devotion." I
have, by request, omitted personal names, except that of Madame Cyon
herself.

At the occupation of Lille the Germans at once set about extinguishing
fires that had broken out. In order to prevent these spreading, it was
necessary to blow up some houses, and the Germans posted bills
telling the people not to be alarmed at the explosions. When Madame
Cyon returned to England a newspaper-reporter interviewed her. She
stipulated that she must see the manuscript before the interview was
published, and as she found the tone of the manuscript was not hers, she
refused to let it be printed. A later interview with someone else was
published in the same newspaper, in which it was made to appear that
the Germans had deliberately set fire to the town. This Madame Cyon
asserts is directly contrary to the facts. A similar case of exaggeration
Madame Cyon noticed while in the occupied districts. There were
all kinds of dreadful stories as to what went on about the country, and
she was told it would never do to leave Lille. When she did leave, and
made her way to Holland, she found no confirmation of these stories.
Travelling was uncomfortable and tedious, but there was no peril of any
kind.

In the early days of the war there were Belgian refugees at Alexandra Palace.
M. Cyon was a journalist, and took his notebook with him to put down
interesting facts. He wished to confine himself to facts, however,
which not all journalists do. He found the women full of stories
about atrocities, but they were always terrible things that had
happened to _someone else_.How strange that
decay, in dark places, and underground, and where there are a billion
chances to one that nobody will ever see its handiwork, should produce
these beautiful effects!  The glass seems to become perfectly brittle, so
that it would vanish, like a soap-bubble, if touched.

Ascending the stairs, I went through the halls of fossil remains,--which
I care little for, though one of them is a human skeleton in limestone,--
and through several rooms of mineralogical specimens, including all the
gems in the world, among which is seen, not the Koh-i-noor itself, but a
fac-simile of it in crystal.  Have I read it with self-application? Have I
felt any sensible delight while reading it?

Have I spent any time in heavenly meditation? Was this exercise performed
in a prayerful spirit? Did the truth I was contemplating deeply
affect my own heart?Then I went through rooms of shells and fishes and reptiles and
tortoises, crocodiles and alligators and insects, including all manner of
butterflies, some of which had wings precisely like leaves, a little
withered and faded, even the skeleton and fibres of the leaves
represented; and immense hairy spiders, covering, with the whole
circumference of their legs, a space as big as a saucer; and centipedes
little less than a foot long; and winged insects that look like jointed
twigs of a tree.  In America, I remember, when I lived in Lenox, I found
an insect of this species, and at first really mistook it for a twig.  It
was smaller than these specimens in the Museum.  I suppose every
creature, almost, that runs or creeps or swims or flies, is represented
in this collection of Natural History; and it puzzles me to think what
they were all made for, though it is quite as mysterious why man himself
was made.

By and by I entered the room of Egyptian mummies, of which there are a
good many, one of which, the body of a priestess, is unrolled, except the
innermost layer of linen.  The outline of her face is perfectly visible.
Mummies of cats, dogs, snakes, and children are in the wall-cases,
together with a vast many articles of Egyptian manufacture and use,--even
children's toys; bread, too, in flat cakes; grapes, that have turned to
raisins in the grave; queerest of all, methinks, a curly wig, that is
supposed to have belonged to a woman,--together with the wooden box that
held it.  The hair is brown, and the wig is as perfect as if it had been
made for some now living dowager.

From Egypt we pass into rooms containing vases and other articles of
Grecian and Roman workmanship, and funeral urns, and beads, and rings,
none of them very beautiful.  I saw some splendid specimens, however, at
a former visit, when I obtained admission to a room not indiscriminately
shown to visitors.  What chiefly interested me in that room was a cast
taken from the face of Cromwell after death; representing a wide-mouthed,
long-chinned, uncomely visage, with a triangular English nose in the very
centre.  There were various other curiosities, which I fancied were safe
in my memory, but they do not now come uppermost.

To return to my to-day's progress through the Museum;--next to the
classic rooms are the collections of Saxon and British and early English
antiquities, the earlier portions of which are not very interesting to
me, possessing little or no beauty in themselves, and indicating a kind
of life too remote from our own to be readily sympathized with.  Who
cares for glass beads and copper brooches, and knives, spear-heads, and
swords, all so rusty that they look as much like pieces of old iron hoop
as anything else?  The bed of the Thames has been a rich treasury of
antiquities, from the time of the Roman Conquest downwards; it seems to
preserve bronze in considerable perfection, but not iron.

Among the mediaeval relics, the carvings in ivory are often very
exquisite and elaborate.  There are likewise caskets and coffers, and a
thousand other Old World ornamental works; but I saw so many and such
superior specimens of them at the Manchester Exhibition, that I shall say
nothing of them here.  The seal-ring of Mary, Queen of Scots, is in one
of the cases; it must have been a thumb-ring, judging from its size, and
it has a dark stone, engraved with armorial bearings.  In another case is
the magic glass formerly used by Dr. Doe, and in which, if I rightly
remember, used to be seen prophetic visions or figures of persons and
scenes at a distance.  It is a round ball of glass or crystal, slightly
tinged with a pinkish hue, and about as big as a small apple, or a little
bigger than an egg would be if perfectly round.  When Usbeck heard of this
event, he was, at first, stupefied by the audacity of the deed. He imagined
that all Russia was in the conspiracy, and that there was to be a general
rising to throw off the Tartar yoke. Still Usbeck, with his
characteristic sagacity, decided to employ the Russians to subdue the
Russians. He at once deposed and outlawed Alexander, and declared
Jean Danielovitch, of Moscow, to be grand prince, who promised the
most obsequious obedience to his wishes.

At the same time he sent an army of fifty-thousand Tartars to coöperate
with the Russian army, which Jean Danielovitch was commanded to put in
motion for the invasion of the principality of Tver. It was in vain
to think of resistance, and Alexander fled. The invading army, with awful
devastation, ravaged the principality. Multitudes were slain.
Others were dragged into captivity. The smoking ruins of the cities
and villages of Tver became the monument of the wrath of the khan.
Alexander, pursued by the implacable wrath of Usbeck, was finally taken
and beheaded.

But few particulars are known respecting the condition of southern Russia
at this time. The principalities were under the government of princes who
were all tributary to the Tartars, and yet these princes were incessantly
quarreling with one another, and the whole country was the scene of
violence and blood.

The energies of the Tartar horde were now engrossed by internal
dissensions and oriental wars, and for many years, the conquerors still
drawing their annual tribute from the country, but in no other way
interfering with its concerns, devoted all their energies to
conspiracies and bloody battles among themselves.

Moscow now became the capital of the country, and under the peaceful
reign of Jean, increased rapidly in wealth and splendor. Jean, acting
professedly as the agent of Usbeck, extorted from many of the principalities
double tribute, one half of which he furtively appropriated to the increase
of the wealth, splendor and power of his own dominions. His reign was on
the whole one of the most prosperous Russia had enjoyed for ages.
Agriculture and commerce flourished. The Volga was covered with boats,
conveying to the Caspian the furs and manufactures of the North, and
laden, on their return, with the spices and fabrics of the Indies. On
the 31st of March, 1340, Jean died. As he felt the approach of death
his spirit was overawed by the realities of the eternal world. Laying
aside his regal robes he assumed the dress of a monk, and entering a
monastery, devoted his last days zealously to prayer. His end was
peace.

Immediately after his death there were several princes who were ambitious
of grasping the scepter which he had dropped, and, as Usbeck alone could
settle that question, there was a general rush to the horde. Simeon, the
eldest son of Jean, and his brothers, were among the foremost who
presented themselves in the tent of the all-powerful khan. Simeon
eloquently urged the fidelity with which his father had always served
the Mogol prince, and he promised, in his turn, to do every thing in his
power to merit the favor of the khan. So successfully did he prosecute
his suit that the khan declared him to be grand prince, and commanded all
his rivals to obey him as their chief.

The manners of the barbarian Mogols had, for some time, been assuming
a marked change. They emerged from their native wilds as fierce and
untamed as wolves.There is a beetle, wrought out of immensely hard black
stone, as big as a hogshead.  It is satisfactory to see a thing so big
and heavy.  Then there are huge stone sarcophagi, engraved with
hieroglyphics within and without, all as good as new, though their age is
reckoned by thousands of years.  These great coffins are of vast weight
and mass, insomuch that when once the accurately fitting lids were shut
down, there might have seemed little chance of their being lifted again
till the Resurrection.  I positively like these coffins, they are so
faithfully made, and so black and stern,--and polished to such a nicety,
only to be buried forever; for the workmen, and the kings who were laid
to sleep within, could never have dreamed of the British Museum.

There is a deity named Pasht, who sits in the hall, very big, very grave,
carved of black stone, and very ludicrous, wearing a dog's head.  I will
just mention the Rosetta Stone, with a Greek inscription, and another in
Egyptian characters which gave the clew to a whole field of history; and
shall pretermit all further handling of this unwieldy subject.

If not for that of conscience, yet at least for ambition's sake, let us
reject ambition; let us disdain that thirst of honour and renown, so
low and mendicant, that it makes us beg it of all sorts of
people:

"Quae est ista laus quae: possit e macello peti?"
["What praise is that which is to be got in the market-place (meat
market)?"

Cicero, De Fin., ii. 15.]
by abject means, and at what cheap rate soever: 'tis dishonour to be so
honoured. Let us learn to be no more greedy, than we are capable,
of glory. To be puffed up with every action that is innocent or of use,
is only for those with whom such things are extraordinary and rare: they
will value it as it costs them. The more a good effect makes a noise, the
more do I abate of its goodness as I suspect that it was more performed
for the noise, than upon account of the goodness: exposed upon the
stall, 'tis half sold. Those actions have much more grace and lustre,
that slip from the hand of him that does them, negligently and
without noise, and that some honest man thereafter finds out and
raises from the shade, to produce it to the light upon its own
account,
"Mihi quidem laudabiliora videntur omnia, quae sine venditatione,
et sine populo teste fiunt,"
["All things truly seem more laudable to me that are performed
without ostentation, and without the testimony of the people."

--Cicero, Tusc. Quaes., ii. 26.]
says the most ostentatious man that ever lived.

I had but to conserve and to continue, which are silent and insensible
effects: innovation is of great lustre; but 'tis interdicted in this
age, when we are pressed upon and have nothing to defend ourselves from
but novelties. To forbear doing is often as generous as to do; but
'tis less in the light, and the little good I have in me is of this kind.
In fine, occasions in this employment of mine have been confederate with
my humour, and I heartily thank them for it. Is there any who desires
to be sick, that he may see his physician at work? and would not the
physician deserve to be whipped who should wish the plague amongst us,
that he might put his art in practice? I have never been of that wicked
humour, and common enough, to desire that troubles and disorders in this
city should elevate and honour my government; I have ever heartily
contributed all I could to their tranquillity and ease.

He who will not thank me for the order, the sweet and silent calm that has
accompanied my administration, cannot, however, deprive me of the
share that belongs to me by title of my good fortune.

And I am of such a composition, that I would as willingly be lucky as wise,
and had rather owe my successes purely to the favour of Almighty
God, than to any operation of my own.
Pictorial talent seems to be abundant enough, up to a
certain point; pictorial genius, I should judge, is among the rarest of
gifts.  To be sure, I very likely might not recognize it where it
existed; and yet it ought to have the power of making itself known even
to the uninstructed mind, as literary genius does.  If it exist only for
connoisseurs, it is a very suspicious matter.  I looked at all Turner's
pictures, and at many of his drawings; and must again confess myself
wholly unable to understand more than a very few of them.  Even those few
are tantalizing.  At a certain distance you discern what appears to be a
grand and beautiful picture, which you shall admire and enjoy infinitely
if you can get within the range of distinct vision.  You come nearer, and
find only blotches of color and dabs of the brush, meaning nothing when
you look closely, and meaning a mystery at the point where the painter
intended to station you.  Some landscapes there were, indeed, full of
imaginative beauty, and of the better truth etherealized out of the
prosaic truth of Nature; only it was still impossible actually to see it.
There was a mist over it; or it was like a tract of beautiful dreamland,
seen dimly through sleep, and glimmering out of sight, if looked upon
with wide-open eyes.  These were the more satisfactory specimens.  There
were many others which I could not comprehend in the remotest degree; not
even so far as to conjecture whether they purported to represent earth,
sea, or sky.  In fact, I should not have known them to be pictures at
all, but might have supposed that the artist had been trying his brush on
the canvas, mixing up all sorts of hues, but principally white paint, and
now and then producing an agreeable harmony of color without particularly
intending it.  Now that I have done my best to understand them without an
interpreter, I mean to buy Ruskin's pamphlet at my next visit, and look
at them through his eyes.  But I do not think that I can be driven out of
the idea that a picture ought to have something in common with what the
spectator sees in nature.

Marlborough House may be converted, I think, into a very handsome
residence for the young Prince of Wales.  The entrance from the
court-yard is into a large, square central hall, the painted ceiling of
which is at the whole height of the edifice, and has a gallery on one
side, whence it would be pleasant to look down on a festal scene below.
The rooms are of fine proportions, with vaulted ceilings, and with
fireplaces and mantel-pieces of great beauty, adorned with pillars and
terminal figures of white and of variegated marble; and in the centre of
each mantel-piece there is a marble tablet, exquisitely sculptured with
classical designs, done in such high relief that the figures are
sometimes almost disengaged from the background.  One of the subjects was
Androcles, or whatever was his name, taking the thorn out of the lion's
foot.  I suppose these works are of the era of the first old Duke and
Duchess.  After all, however, for some reason or other, the house does
not at first strike you as a noble and princely one, and you have to
convince yourself of it by examining it more in detail.

On leaving Marlborough House, I stepped for a few moments into the
National Gallery, and looked, among other things, at the Turners and
Claudes that hung there side by side.  These pictures, I think, are quite
the most comprehensible of Turner's productions; but I must say I prefer
the Claudes.  The latter catches "the light that never was on sea or
land" without taking you quite away from nature for it.  Nevertheless, I
will not be quite certain that I care for any painter except Murillo,
whose St. John I should like to own.  As far as my own pleasure is
concerned, I could not say as much for any other picture; for I have
always found an infinite weariness and disgust resulting from a picture
being too frequently before my eyes.  And dare you raise your head against
an elephant? If in the forests of Natolia you have obtained some
trivial successes; if the timid Europeans have fled like cowards before
you, return thanks to Mohammed for your success, for it is not
owing to your own valor.

Listen to the counsels of wisdom. Be content with the heritage of your
fathers, and, however small that heritage may be, beware how you attempt,
in the slightest degree, to extend its limits, lest death be the penalty
of your temerity."
To this insolent letter, Bajazet responded in terms equally defiant.

"For a long time," he wrote, "Bajazet has burned with the desire to measure
himself with Tamerlane, and he returns thanks to the All-powerful that
Tamerlane now comes himself, to present his head to the cimeter of
Bajazet."
The two conquerors gathered all their resources for the great and decisive
battle. Tamerlane speedily reached Aleppo, which city, after a bloody
conflict, he entered in triumph. The Tartar chieftain was an impostor
and a hypocrite, as well as a merciless butcher of his fellow-men. He
assembled the learned men of Aleppo, and assured them in most
eloquent terms that he was the devoted friend of God, and that the
enemies who resisted his will were responsible to God for all the
evils their obstinacy rendered it necessary for him to inflict.

Before every conflict he fell upon his knees in the presence of the
army in prayer. After every victory, he assembled his troops to return
thanks to God. There are some sad accounts to be settled at the judgment
day.

In marching from Aleppo to Damascus, Tamerlane visited ostentatiously
the pretended tomb of Noah, that upon the shrine of that patriarch,
so profoundly venerated by the Mohammedans, he might display his
devotion.

Damascus was pillaged of all its treasures, which had been accumulating
for ages, and was then laid in ashes. The two armies, headed by their
respective chieftains, met in Galacia, near Ancyra. It was the 16th of
June, 1402. The storm of war raged for a few hours, and the army of Bajazet
was cut to pieces by superior numbers, and he himself was taken
captive.

Tamerlane treated his prisoner with the most condescending kindness, seated
him by his side upon the imperial couch, and endeavored to solace him by
philosophical disquisitions upon the mutability of all human
affairs.

The annals of the day do not sustain the rumor that Bajazet was confined
in an iron cage.

The empire of Tamerlane now extended from the Caspian and the Mediterranean
to the Nile and the Ganges. He established his capital at Samarcand,
some six hundred miles east of the Caspian Sea.

To this central capital he returned after each of his expeditions, devoting
immense treasures to the erection of mosques, the construction of gardens,
the excavation of canals and the erection of cities. And now, in the pride
and plenitude of his power, he commenced his march upon Russia.

His army, four hundred thousand strong, defiled from the gates of
Samarcand, and marching to the north, between the Aral and the Caspian
Seas, traversed vast plains, where thousands of wild cattle had long
enjoyed undisturbed pasturage. These cattle afforded them abundant
food. The chase, in which they engaged on a magnificent scale, offered
a very brilliant spectacle. Thousands of horsemen spread out in an
immense circle, making the tent of the emperor the central point.The sketches certainly did show a
high and fine expressiveness, if examined in a trustful mood.  Dr. ------
also spoke of Mr. Harris, the American poet of spiritualism, as being the
best poet of the day; and he produced his works in several volumes, and
showed me songs, and paragraphs of longer poems, in support of his
opinion.  They seemed to me to have a certain light and splendor, but not
to possess much power, either passionate or intellectual.  Mr. Harris is
the medium of deceased poets, Milton and Lord Byron among the rest; and
Dr. ------ said that Lady Byron--who is a devoted admirer of her husband,
in spite of their conjugal troubles--pronounced some of these posthumous
strains to be worthy of his living genius.  Then the Doctor spoke of
various strange experiences which he himself has had in these spiritual
matters; for he has witnessed the miraculous performances of Home, the
American medium, and he has seen with his own eyes, and felt with his own
touch, those ghostly hands and arms the reality of which has been
certified to me by other beholders.  Dr. ------ tells me that they are
cold, and that it is a somewhat awful matter to see and feel them.  I
should think so, indeed.  Do I believe in these wonders?  Of course; for
how is it possible to doubt either the solemn word or the sober
observation of a learned and sensible man like Dr. ------?  But again, do
I really believe it?  Of course not; for I cannot consent to have heaven
and earth, this world and the next, beaten up together like the white and
yolk of an egg, merely out of respect to Dr. ------'s sanity and
integrity.  I would not believe my own sight, nor touch of the spiritual
hands; and it would take deeper and higher strains than those of Mr.
The short inscriptions on the simple monuments are in both French
and German.

They refer alike to the seventeen hundred French and the thirteen hundred
Germans who fell on August 27 during the battle on the heights of
Noyers."

A STORY FROM FRANCE.

From _L'Action Française_, Paris (June 12, 1915), is cited a description
of the poignancy of war, of which the following is a translation:

There had been a fierce fight in front of a fortress. Many dead lay
on the ground, and a few wounded who were dying. In the night we
heard weak cries, 'Kamerad, Kamerad!' We answered, thinking it was
a German who wished to give himself up. The cries were repeated.
We thought of treachery, and each took his stand in readiness.Not
that I have anything to recant as respects those strange, white-grounded
performances in the chambers at the Marlborough House; but some of his
happier productions (a large landscape illustrative of Childe Harold, for
instance) seem to me to have more magic in them than any other pictures.
I admire, too, that misty, morning landscape in the National Gallery;
and, no doubt, his very monstrosities are such as only he could have
painted, and may have an infinite value for those who can appreciate the
genius in them.


Bennigsen was compelled to retire in order to recruit the strength of his
men.

The Emperor of the French was still at Warsaw. The Polish capital
was gay and frivolous. New hopes had awakened the spirit of folly
in the aristocracy, and the "liberator," now at the very height of
his physical power, was often conspicuous in the revels. In the
intervals of his serious labors Napoleon gave way to a life of
sensuality, and the women were prodigal of their charms.We think of
going to the Crystal Palace to spend the festival day, and eat our
Christmas dinner; but, do what we may, we shall have no home feeling or
fireside enjoyment.  I am weary, weary of London and of England, and can
judge now how the old Loyalists must have felt, condemned to pine out
their lives here, when the Revolution had robbed them of their native
country.  And yet there is still a pleasure in being in this dingy,
smoky, midmost haunt of men; and I trudge through Fleet Street and
Ludgate Street and along Cheapside with an enjoyment as great as I ever
felt in a wood-path at home; and I have come to know these streets as
well, I believe, as I ever knew Washington Street in Boston, or even
Essex Street in my stupid old native town.  There is some discrepancy here.
"They are great workers, these Germans," wrote Philip Gibbs (_Daily
Chronicle_, July 5, 1916), "and wonderful soldiers."

"An officer of the _Sydney_ gave a quite enthusiastic account of the
officers of the _Emden_. 'Vitthoef, the torpedo lieutenant, was a
thoroughly nice fellow.

Lieutenant Schal was also a good fellow and half English. It quite shook
them when they found that the captain had asked that there be no cheering
on entering Colombo, but we certainly did not want cheering with rows
of badly wounded men (almost all German) laid out in cots on the
quarter deck.

Captain von Müller is a very fine fellow.... The day he was leaving the
ship at Colombo, he came up to me on the quarter-deck and thanked me
in connection with the rescue of the wounded, shook hands and saluted,
which was very nice and polite of him.... Prince Hohenzollern was a decent
enough fellow. In fact, we seemed to agree that it was our job to knock
one another out, but there was no malice in it.'

This is the ideal fighting, 'with no malice in it.' It has been achieved
by many English and Germans, and that gives hope for the future. Let us
make the most, not the least, of what points towards a better
understanding.... At the beginning of November 'Eye-Witness' records
how English prisoners had been sheltered by the Germans in cellars
to protect them from the bombardment of their own side.

An Anglo-Indian tells of a wounded havildar who was noticed by a German
officer. 'The German officer spoke to him in Hindustani, asking him the
number of his regiment, and where he came from. He bound up his wounds,
gave him a drink, and brought him a bundle of straw to support his
head. This will be remembered to the credit side of our German account.'

"A wounded officer addressed some students at one of our universities.
He protested humorously that he was not a 'pro-German,' and then spoke
up for a fair view of the enemy. When he was being carried into hospital,
he noticed an anti-aircraft gun just outside the hospital.
This struck him as, to say the least, unwise. He expected the hospital to
be shelled, and this occurred.

He did not blame the Germans. On another occasion a farm near the firing
line was used for first aid. It was not obviously a hospital and was fired
on. The Commanding Officer sent a note to Von Kluck to explain matters,
and the farm was never after exposed to fire.[55] He had seen a church
damaged by German shell fire, but this was one which he had
himself seen used by the French for observation purposes.[56] The
same officer uttered a warning against believing all that was in
the 'Tommies' letters.He is a man of much more youthful aspect than I had
expected, . . . . a slender person to be an Englishman, though not
remarkably so had he been an American; with an intelligent, pleasant,
and sensitive face,--a man very evidently of refined feelings and
cultivated mind. . . . He is very simple and agreeable in his
manners; a little shy, yet perfectly frank, and easy to meet on real
grounds. . . . He said that his wife had proposed to come with him, and
had, indeed, accompanied him to town, but was kept away. . . . We were
very sorry for this, because Mr. Patmore seems to acknowledge her as the
real "Angel in the House," although he says she herself ignores all
connection with the poem.  It is well for her to do so, and for her
husband to feel that the character is her real portrait; and both, I
suppose, are right.  It is a most beautiful and original poem,--a poem
for happy married people to read together, and to understand by the light
of their own past and present life; but I doubt whether the generality of
English people are capable of appreciating it.  I told Mr. Patmore that I
thought his popularity in America would be greater than at home, and he
said that it was already so; and he appeared to estimate highly his
American fame, and also our general gift of quicker and more subtle
recognition of genius than the English public. . . . We mutually
gratified each other by expressing high admiration of one another's
works, and Mr. Patmore regretted that in the few days of our further stay
here we should not have time to visit him at his home.  It would really
give me pleasure to do so. . . . I expressed a hope of seeing him in
Italy during our residence there, and he seemed to think it possible, as
his friend, and our countryman, Thomas Buchanan Read, had asked him to
come thither and be his guest.  He took his leave, shaking hands with all
of us because he saw that we were of his own people, recognizing him as a
true poet.  He has since given me the new edition of his poems, with a
kind rote.

We are now making preparations for our departure, which we expect will
take place on Tuesday; and yesterday I went to our Minister's to arrange
about the passport.  The very moment I rang at his door, it swung open,
and the porter ushered me with great courtesy into the anteroom; not that
he knew me, or anything about me, except that I was an American citizen.
This is the deference which an American servant of the public finds it
expedient to show to his sovereigns.  One of them was the well-known
Countess Walewska, a beautiful woman, who while yet a child had been forced
into wedlock with an aged nobleman. She was now made to feel that the
future of her country depended upon her captivating Napoleon, for he had
singled her out as the most beautiful of all the crowd which pressed
around him on his entry.

Indignant when the proposition was first made, she finally listened to
the prejudiced morality of her friends, and gave an unwilling consent.
He gave a fearful account of the
difficulties that beset a person landing with much luggage in Italy, and
especially at Civita Vecchia, the very port at which we intended to
debark.  I have been so long in England that it seems a cold and shivery
thing to go anywhere else.

--Pacific Character of Romanow.--Choice of a Bride.--Eudochia
Streschnew.--The Archbishop Feodor.--Death of Michael and Accession of
Alexis.

--Love in the Palace.--Successful intrigue.--Mobs in Moscow.--Change in
the Character of the Tzar.--Turkish invasions.
END OF VOL. II.