E-text prepared by Joseph E. Loewenstein, M.D.


THE GIRL OF THE GOLDEN WEST

by

DAVID BELASCO

1911


   "In those strange days, people coming from God knows where,
   joined forces in that far Western land, and, according to the
   rude custom of the camp, their very names were soon lost and
   unrecorded, and here they struggled, laughed, gambled, cursed,
   killed, loved and worked out their strange destinies in a
   manner incredible to us of to-day. Of one thing only are we
   sure--they lived!"

                                 _Early History of California_


I.


It was when coming back to the mines, after a trip to Monterey, that the
Girl first met him. It happened, too, just at a time when her mind was
ripe to receive a lasting impression. But of all this the boys of Cloudy
Mountain Camp heard not a word, needless to say, until long afterwards.

Lolling back on the rear seat of the stage, her eyes half closed,--the
sole passenger now, and with the seat in front piled high with boxes
and baskets containing _rebozos_, silken souvenirs, and other finery
purchased in the shops of the old town,--the Girl was mentally reviewing
and dreaming of the delights of her week's visit there,--a visit that
had been a revelation to one whose sole experience of the world had
until now been derived from life in a rough mining camp. Before her
half-closed eyes still shimmered a vista of strange, exotic scenes and
people, the thronging crowds of carnivals and fêtes; the Mexican girls
swaying through the movements of the fandango to the music of guitars
and castanets; the great _rodeo_ with its hundreds of _vaqueros_, which
was held at one of the ranchos just outside the town; and, lastly, and
most vividly of all, the never-to-be-forgotten thrill of her first
bull-fight.

Still ringing in her ears was the piercing note of the bugle which
instantly silenced the expectant throng; the hoarse roar that greeted
the entrance of the bull, and the thunder of his hoofs when he made his
first mad charge. She saw again, with marvellous fidelity, the whole
colour-scheme just before the death of the big, brave beast: the huge
arena in its unrivalled setting of mountain, sea and sky; the eager
multitude, tense with expectancy; the silver-mounted bridles and
trappings of the horses; the many-hued capes of the _capadors_; the
gaily-dressed _banderilleros_, poising their beribboned barbs; the red
flag and long, slender, flashing sword of the cool and ever watchful
_matador_; and, most prominent of all to her eyes, the brilliant,
gold-laced packets of the gentlemen-_picadors_, who, after the Mexican
fashion,--so she had been told,--deemed it in nowise beneath them to
enter the arena in person.

And so it happened that now, as the stage swung round a corner, and a
horseman suddenly appeared at a point where two roads converged, and
was evidently spurring his horse with the intent of coming up with the
stage, it was only natural that, even before he was near enough to be
identified, the _caballero_ should already have become a part of the
pageant of her mental picture.

Up to the moment of the stranger's appearance, nothing had happened to
break the monotony of her long return journey towards Cloudy Mountain
Camp. Far back in the distance now lay the Mission where the passengers
of the stage had been hospitably entertained the night before; still
further back the red-tiled roofs and whitewashed walls of the little
pueblo of San Jose,--a veritable bower of roses; and remotest of all,
the crosses of San Carlos and the great pines, oaks and cypresses, which
bordered her dream-memory of the white-beach crescent formed by the
waves of Monterey Bay.

The dawn of each day that swept her further from her week in wonderland
had ushered in the matchless spring weather of California,--the
brilliant sunshine, the fleecy clouds, the gentle wind with just a
tang in it from the distant mountains; and as the stage rolled slowly
northward through beautiful valleys, bright with yellow poppies and
silver-white lupines, every turn of the road varied her view of the
hills lying under an enchantment unlike that of any other land. Yet
strange and full of interest as every mile of the river country should
have been to a girl accustomed to the great forest of the Sierras,
she had gazed upon it for the most part with unseeing eyes, while
her thoughts turned, magnet-like, backward to the delights and the
bewilderment of the old Mexican town. So now, as the pursuing horseman
swept rapidly nearer, each swinging stride of the powerful horse, each
rhythmic movement of the graceful rider brought nearer and more vivid
the vision of a handsome _picador_ holding off with his lance a
thoroughly maddened bull until the crowd roared forth its appreciation.

"See, Señorita," said the horseman, at last galloping close to the coach
and lifting his sombrero, "A beautiful bunch of syringa," and then, with
his face bent towards her and his voice full of appeal, he added in
lower tone: "for you!"

For a brief second, the Girl was too much taken back to find the
adequate words with which to accept the stranger's offering.
Notwithstanding that in his glance she could read, as plainly as though
he had spoken: "I know I am taking a liberty, but please don't be angry
with me," there was something in his sweeping bow and grace of manner
that, coupled with her vague sense of his social advantage, disconcerted
her. A second more, however, and the embarrassment had passed, for on
lifting her eyes to his again she saw that her memory had not played
her false; beyond all chance of a mistake, he was the man who, ten days
earlier, had peered into the stage, as she was nearing Monterey, and
later, at the bull-fight, had found time to shoot admiring glances
at her between his daring feats of horsemanship. Therefore, genuine
admiration was in her eyes and extreme cordiality in her voice when,
after a word or two of thanks, she added, with great frankness:

"But it strikes me sort o' forcible that I've seen you before." Then,
with growing enthusiasm: "My, but that bull-fight was jest grand! You
were fine! I'm right glad to know you, sir."

The _caballero's_ face flushed with pleasure at her free-and-easy
reception of him, while an almost inaudible "_Gracias_" fell from his
lips. At once he knew that his first surmise, that the Girl was an
American, had been correct. Not that his experience in life had
furnished him with any parallel, for the Girl constituted a new and
unique type. But he was well aware that no Spanish lady would have
received the advances of a stranger in like fashion. It was inevitable,
therefore, that for the moment he should contrast, and not wholly to her
advantage, the Girl's unconventionality with the enforced reserve of the
_dulcineas_ who, custom decrees, may not be courted save in the presence
of _duennas_. But the next instant he recalled that there were, in
Sacramento, young women whose directness it would never do to mistake
for boldness; and,--to his credit be it said,--he was quick to perceive
that, however indifferent the Girl seemed to the customary formality of
introduction, there was no suggestion of indelicacy about her. All that
her frank and easy manner suggested was that she was a child of nature,
spontaneous and untrammelled by the dictates of society, and normally
and healthily at home in the company of the opposite sex.

"And she is even more beautiful than I supposed," was the thought that
went through his mind.

And yet, the Girl was not beautiful, at least if judged by Spanish or
Californian standards. As schoolboy, Cowley tells us that he read the Latin
authors, but could not be made to learn grammar rules by rote. He was
a candidate at his school in 1636 for a scholarship at Cambridge, but
was not elected.
In that year, however, he went to Cambridge and obtained a scholarship
at Trinity.

Cowley carried to Cambridge and extended there his reputation as boy
poet. In 1636 the "Poetical Blossoms" were re-issued with an appendix
of sixteen more pieces under the head of "Sylva."

A third edition of the "Poetical Blossoms" was printed in 1637--the
year of Milton's "Lycidas" and of Ben Johnson's death.

Cowley had written a five-act pastoral comedy, "Love's Riddle," while yet
at school, and this was published in 1638.

In the same year, 1638, when Cowley's age was twenty, a Latin comedy
of his, "Naufragium Joculare," was acted by men of his College, and
in the same year printed, with a dedication to Dr.

Comber, Dean of Carlisle, who was Master of Trinity. The poet Richard
Crashaw, who was about two years older than Cowley, and, having
entered Pembroke Hall in 1632, became a Fellow of Peterhouse in
1637, sent Cowley a June present of two unripe apricots with pleasant
verses of compliment on his own early ripeness, on his April-Autumn:-

"Take them, and me, in them acknowledging How much my Summer waits
upon thy Spring."

Cowley was able afterwards to help Crashaw materially, and wrote some
lines upon his early death.

In 1639 Cowley took the degree of B.A.

In 1640 he was chosen a Minor Fellow, and in 1642 a Major Fellow,
of Trinity, and he proceeded to his M.A. in due course.

In March, 1641, when Prince Charles visited Cambridge, a comedy
called "The Guardian," hastily written by Cowley, was acted at
Trinity College for the Prince's entertainment.

Cowley is said also to have written during three years at Cambridge the
greater part of his heroic poem on the history of David, the "Davideis."
One of the occasional poems written at this time by Cowley was on the
early and sudden death of his most intimate friend at the University,
William Hervey, to whom he was dearer than all but his brothers and
sisters, and, says Cowley:
"Even in that we did agree, For much above myself I loved them too."

Hervey and Cowley had walked daily together, and had spent nights in
joint study of philosophy and poetry. Hervey "had all the light of
youth, of the fire none."

"With as much zeal, devotion, piety, He always lived as other saints
do die.

Still with his soul severe account he kept, Weeping all debts out
ere he slept; Then down in peace and innocence he lay, Like the
sun's laborious light, Which still in water sets at night, Unsullied
with the journey of the day."

Cowley's friendship with this family affected the course of his life.
He received many kindnesses from his friend's brother John Hervey,
including introduction to Henry Jermyn, one of the most trusted
friends of Queen Henrietta Maria, the friend who was created by her
wish Baron Jermyn of St.

Edmondsbury, who was addressed by Charles I. as "Harry," and was
created by Charles II., in April, 1660, Earl of St.

Albans.

He was described in Queen Henrietta's time by a political scandal-monger,
as "something too ugly for a lady's favourite, yet that is nothing
to some."

In 1643 Cowley was driven from Cambridge, and went to St. John's College,
Oxford. To Oxford at the end of that year the king summoned a Parliament,
which met on the 22nd of January, 1644. This brought to Oxford many
peers and Royalists, who deserted the Parliament at Westminster for
the king's Parliament at Oxford. It continued to sit until the 16th
of April, by which time the king had found even his own Parliament
to be in many respects too independent. In 1644 the queen, about to
become a mother, withdrew to Exeter from Oxford, against which an army
was advancing; and the parting at Oxford proved to be the last between
her and her husband. A daughter was born at Exeter on the 16th of
June. Within two weeks afterwards the advance of an army towards
Exeter caused the queen to rise from her bed in a dangerous state
of health, and, leaving her child in good keeping, escape to Plymouth,
where she reached Pendennis Castle on the 29th of June.

On the 2nd of July the king's forces were defeated at Marston Moor.
On the 14th of July the queen escaped from Falmouth to Brest.

After some rest at the baths of Bourbon, she went on to Paris, where
she was lodged in the Louvre, and well cared for.

Jermyn was still her treasurer, her minister, and the friend for
whose counsel she cared most.

It was into the service of this Lord Jermyn that Cowley had been introduced
through his friendship with the Herveys. He went to Paris as Lord
Jermyn's secretary, had charge of the queen's political correspondence,
ciphered and deciphered letters between Queen Henrietta and King
Charles, and was thus employed so actively under Lord Jermyn that
his work filled all his days, and many of his nights.

He was sent also on journeys to Jersey, Scotland, Flanders, Holland, or
wherever else the king's troubles required his attendance.

In 1647 Cowley published his volume of forty-four love poems, called
"The Mistress."

He was himself no gallant, neither paid court to ladies, nor married.

His love poetry was hypothetical; and of his life at this time he
says: "Though I was in a crowd of as good company as could be found
anywhere; though I was in business of great and honourable trust; though
I ate at the best table, and enjoyed the best convenience for present
subsistence that ought to be desired by a man of my condition in
banishment and public distresses, yet I could not abstain from
renewing my old schoolboy's wish in a copy of verses to the same
effect:-
"'Well, then, I now do plainly see This busy world and I shall ne'er
agree,' &c.,
and I never then proposed to myself any other advantage from his
Majesty's happy restoration, but the getting into some moderately
convenient retreat in the country, which I thought, in that case,
I might easily have compassed, as well as some others who, with no
greater probabilities or pretences, have arrived to extraordinary
fortunes."

In 1654 Queen Henrietta, under influence of a new confessor, had left the
Louvre, and, with the little daughter born at Exeter, taken up her
quarters in a foundation of her own, at Chaillot, for nuns of the visitation
of St. Mary.

Lord Jermyn having little use left for a secretary in Paris, Cowley
in 1656, after twelve years' service in France, was sent to England
that he might there live in the retirement he preferred, and with the
understanding that he would be able to send information upon the
course of home affairs. In England he was presently seized by mistake
for another man, and, when his name and position were known, he was
imprisoned, until a friendly physician, Sir Charles Scarborough,
undertook to be security in a thousand pounds for his good conduct.
In this year, 1656, Cowley published the first folio volume of his Poems,
prepared in prison, and suggested, he said, by his finding, when he
returned to England, a book called "The Iron Age," which had been published
as his, and caused him to wonder that any one foolish enough to write
such bad verses should yet be so wise as to publish them under another
man's name. Cowley thought then that he had taken leave of verse, which
needed less troubled times for its reading, and a mind less troubled in
the writer. He left out of his book, he said, the pieces written
during the Civil War, including three books of the Civil War itself,
reaching as far as the first battle of Newbury.
These he had burnt, for, he said, "I would have it accounted no less
unlawful to rip up old wounds than to give new ones." "When the event
of battle and the unaccountable Will of God has determined the
controversy, and that we have submitted to the will of the conqueror,
we must lay down our pens as well as arms."

The first part of this folio contained early poems; the second part "The
Mistress;" the third part "Pindaric Odes;" and the fourth and last
his "Davideis."
In September of the following year, 1657, Cowley acted as best man to
George Villiers, Duke of Buckingham, on his marriage at Bolton Percy, to
Fairfax's daughter; Cowley wrote also a sonnet for the bride. In December
he obtained, by influence of friends, the degree of M.D. from the
University of Oxford, and retired into Kent to study botany. Such study
caused him then to write a Latin poem upon Plants, in six books:
the first two on Herbs, in elegiac verse; the next two on Flowers,
in various measures; and the last two on Trees, in heroic numbers:-
"Plantarum, Libri VI."

After the death of Cromwell, Cowley returned to France, but he came
back to England in 1660, when he published an "Ode on His Majesty's
Restoration and Return," and "A Discourse by way of Vision concerning
the Government of Oliver Cromwell."

He was admitted, as Dr. Cowley, among the first members of the
Royal Society then founded; but he was excluded from the favour of
the king. He had written an "Ode to Brutus," for which, said his
Majesty, it was enough for Mr. Cowley to be forgiven. A noble lord
replied to Cowley's Ode, in praise of Brutus, with an Ode against
that Rebel.
Cowley's old friend, Lord Jermyn, now made Earl of St. Alban's, joined,
however, with George Villiers, Duke of Buckingham, in providing for
the poet all that was required to secure to him the quiet life that he
desired.

Provision to such end had been promised him both by Charles I. and Charles
II., in the definite form of the office of Master of the Savoy, but the
post was given by Charles II.
to a brother of one of his mistresses.

Cowley recast his old comedy of "The Guardian," and produced it in
December, 1661, as "Cutter of Coleman Street."

It was played for a week to a full audience, though some condemned it
on the supposition it was a satire upon the king's party. Cowley
certainly was too pure and thoughtful to be a fit associate for
Charles II. and many of his friends.

The help that came from the Earl of St.

Albans and the Duke of Buckingham, was in the form of such a lease of the
Queen's lands as gave the poet a sufficient income.

Others who had served little were enriched; but he was set at ease,
and sought no more.

He then made his home by the Thames, first at Barn Elms, and afterwards
at Chertsey, at which latter place he lived for about a year in
the Porch House, that yet stands.

Cowley was living at Chertsey when a July evening in damp meadows
gave him a cold, of which he died within a fortnight.

That was in the year 1667, year also of the death of Jeremy Taylor,
and of the birth of Jonathan Swift.

Abraham Cowley is at his truest in these ESSAYS, written during the
last seven years of his life. Their style is simple, and their thoughts
are pure. They have, for their keynote, the happiness of one who loves
true liberty in quiet possession of himself.

When he turns to the Latins, his translations are all from those lines
which would have dwelt most pleasantly upon a mind that to the
last held by the devout wish expressed by himself in a poem of his
early youth--(A Vote, in "Sylva"):
"Books should, not business, entertain the light, And sleep, as
undisturbed as death, the night.

My house a cottage more Than palace, and should fitting be For all my
use, no luxury.
My garden, painted o'er With Nature's hand, not Art's, should
pleasures yield, Horace might envy in his Sabine field."

H. M.

OF LIBERTY.

The liberty of a people consists in being governed by laws which they
have made themselves, under whatsoever form it be of government;
the liberty of a private man in being master of his own time and
actions, as far as may consist with the laws of God and of his
country.

Of this latter only we are here to discourse, and to inquire what estate
of life does best suit us in the possession of it.

This liberty of our own actions is such a fundamental privilege of human
nature, that God Himself, notwithstanding all His infinite power and right
over us, permits us to enjoy it, and that, too, after a forfeiture made
by the rebellion of Adam. He takes so much care for the entire
preservation of it to us, that He suffers neither His providence nor
eternal decree to break or infringe it.
Now for our time, the same God, to whom we are but tenants-at-will for
the whole, requires but the seventh part to be paid to Him at as a
small quit-rent, in acknowledgment of His title. It is man only that
has the impudence to demand our whole time, though he neither gave
it, nor can restore it, nor is able to pay any considerable value
for the least part of it.

This birthright of mankind above all other creatures some are forced by
hunger to sell, like Esau, for bread and broth; but the greatest part
of men make such a bargain for the delivery up of themselves, as Thamar
did with Judah; instead of a kid, the necessary provisions for human
life, they are contented to do it for rings and bracelets. The great
dealers in this world may be divided into the ambitious, the covetous,
and the voluptuous; and that all these men sell themselves to be
slaves-- though to the vulgar it may seem a Stoical paradox--will appear
to the wise so plain and obvious that they will scarce think it
deserves the labour of argumentation.

Let us first consider the ambitious; and those, both in their progress
to greatness, and after the attaining of it. There is nothing truer
than what Sallust says:
"Dominationis in alios servitium suum, mercedem dant": They are content
to pay so great a price as their own servitude to purchase the domination
over others. The first thing they must resolve to sacrifice is their whole
time; they must never stop, nor ever turn aside whilst they are in the
race of glory; no, not like Atalanta for golden apples; "Neither indeed
can a man stop himself, if he would, when he is in this, career. Fertur
equis auriga neque audit currus habenas.

Pray let us but consider a little what mean, servile things men do for
this imaginary food. We cannot fetch a greater example of it than from
the chief men of that nation which boasted most of liberty. To what pitiful
baseness did the noblest Romans submit themselves for the obtaining of
a praetorship, or the consular dignity?

They put on the habit of suppliants, and ran about, on foot and
in dirt, through all the tribes to beg voices; they flattered the poorest
artisans, and carried a nomenclator with them, to whisper in their
ear every man's name, lest they should mistake it in their salutations;
they shook the hand, and kissed the cheek of every popular tradesman;
they stood all day at every market in the public places, to show
and ingratiate themselves to the rout; they employed all their
friends to solicit for them; they kept open tables in every street;
they distributed wine, and bread, and money, even to the vilest of
the people.

At a point of the road where there was a break in the _chaparral_, a
voice suddenly cried out in Spanish:

"Who comes?"

"Follow us!" was the quick answer without drawing rein; and, instantly,
on recognition of the young master's voice, a mounted sentinel spurred
his horse out from behind an overhanging rock and closed in behind
them. And as they were challenged thus several times, it happened that
presently there was quite a little band of men pushing ahead in the
darkness that had fallen.

And so another hour passed. Then, suddenly, there sprung into view
the dark outlines of a low structure which proved to be a corral, and
finally they made their way through a gate and came upon a long adobe
house, situated in a large clearing and having a kind of courtyard in
front of it.

In the centre of this courtyard was what evidently had once been a
fountain, though it had long since dried up. Around it squatted a group
of _vaqueros_, all smoking cigarettes and some of them lazily twisting
lariats out of horsehair. Close at hand a dozen or more wiry little
mustangs stood saddled and bridled and ready for any emergency. In
colour, one or two were of a peculiar cream and had silver white manes,
but the rest were greys and chestnuts. It was evident that they had
great speed and bottom. All in all, what with the fierce and savage
faces of the men scattered about the courtyard, the remoteness of the
adobe, and the care taken to guard against surprise, old Bartolini's
_hacienda_ was an establishment not unlike that of the feudal barons
or a nest of banditti according to the point of view.

At the sound of the fast galloping horses, every man on the ground
sprang to his feet and ran to his horse. For a second only they stood
still and listened intently; then, satisfied that all was well and that
the persons approaching belonged to the rancho, they returned to their
former position by the fountain--all save an Indian servant, who caught
the bridle thrown to him by the young man as he swung himself out of
the saddle. And while this one led his horse noiselessly away, another
of the same race preceded him along a corridor until he came to the
_Maestro's_ room.

Old Ramerrez Bartolini, or Ramerrez, as he was known to his followers,
was dying. His hair, pure white and curly, was still as luxuriant as
when he was a young man. Beneath the curls was a patrician, Spanish
face, straight nose and brilliant, piercing, black eyes. His gigantic
frame lay on a heap of stretched rawhides which raised him a few inches
from the floor. This simple couch was not necessarily an indication of
poverty, though his property had dwindled to almost nothing, for in most
Spanish adobes of that time, even in some dwellings of the very rich,
there were no beds. Over him, as well as under him, were blankets. On
each side of his head, fixed on the wall, two candles were burning, and
almost within reach of his hand there stood a rough altar, with crucifix
and candles, where a padre was making preparations to administer the
Last Sacraments.

In the low-studded room the only evidence remaining of prosperity
were some fragments of rich and costly goods that once had been piled
up there. In former times the old Spaniard had possessed these in
profusion, but little was left now. Indeed, whatever property he had at
the present time was wholly in cattle and horses, and even these were
comparatively few.

There had been a period, not so very long ago at that, when old Ramerrez
was a power in the land. In all matters pertaining to the province of
Alta California his advice was eagerly sought, and his opinion carried
great weight in the councils of the Spaniards. Later, under the Mexican
regime, the respect in which his name was held was scarcely less; but
with the advent of the _Americanos_ all this was changed. Little by
little he lost his influence, and nothing could exceed the hatred which
he felt for the race that he deemed to be responsible for his downfall.

It was odd, in a way, too, for he had married an American girl, the
daughter of a sea captain who had visited the coast, and for many years
he had held her memory sacred. And, curiously enough, it was because of
this enmity, if indirectly, that much of his fortune had been wasted.

Fully resolved that England--even France or Russia, so long as Spain
was out of the question--should be given an opportunity to extend a
protectorate over his beloved land, he had sent emissaries to Europe
and supplied them with moneys--far more than he could afford--to give
a series of lavish entertainments at which the wonderful richness and
fertility of California could be exploited. At one time it seemed as
if his efforts in that direction would meet with success. His plan had
met with such favour from the authorities in the City of Mexico that
Governor Pico had been instructed by them to issue a grant for several
million of acres. But the United States Government was quick to perceive
the hidden meaning in the extravagances of these envoys in London, and
in the end all that was accomplished was the hastening of the inevitable
American occupation.

From that time on it is most difficult to imagine the zeal with which he
endorsed the scheme of the native Californians for a republic of their
own. He was a leader when the latter made their attack on the Americans
in Sonoma County and were repulsed with the loss of several killed.
One of these was Ramerrez' only brother, who was the last, with the
exception of himself and son, of a proud, old, Spanish family. It was a
terrible blow, and increased, if possible, his hatred for the Americans.
Later the old man took part in the battle of San Pasquale and the Mesa.
In the last engagement he was badly wounded, but even in that condition
he announced his intention of fighting on and bitterly denounced his
fellow-officers for agreeing to surrender. As a matter of fact, he
escaped that ignominy. For, taking advantage of his great knowledge of
the country, he contrived to make his way through the American lines
with his few followers, and from that time may be said to have taken
matters into his own hand.

Old Ramerrez was conscious that his end was merely a matter of hours, if
not minutes. Over and over again he had had himself propped up by his
attendants with the expectation that his command to bring his son had
been obeyed. No one knew better than he how impossible it would be to
resist another spasm like that which had seized him a little while after
his son had ridden off the rancho early that morning. Yet he relied once
more on his iron constitution, and absolutely refused to die until he
had laid upon his next of kin what he thoroughly believed to be a stern
duty. Deep down in heart, it is true, he was vaguely conscious of a
feeling of dread lest his cherished revenge should meet with opposition;
but he refused to harbour the thought, believing, not unnaturally, that,
after having imposed his will upon others for nearly seventy years, it
was extremely unlikely that his dying command should be disobeyed by
his son. And it was in the midst of these death-bed reflections that he
heard hurried footsteps and knew that his boy had come at last.

When the latter entered the room his face wore an agonised expression,
for he feared that he had arrived too late. It was a relief, therefore,
to see his father, who had lain still, husbanding his little remaining
strength, open his eyes and make a sign, which included the padre as
well as the attendants, that he wished to be left alone with his son.

"Art thou here at last, my son?" said the old man the moment they were
alone.

"Ay, father, I came as soon as I received your message."

"Come nearer, then, I have much to say to you, and I have not long to
live. Have I been a good father to you, my lad?"

The young man knelt beside the couch and kissed his father's hand, while
he murmured an assent.

At the touch of his son's lips a chill struck the old man's heart. It
tortured him to think how little the boy guessed of the recent history
of the man he was bending over with loving concern; how little he
divined of the revelation that must presently be made to him. For a
moment the dying man felt that, after all, perhaps it were better to
renounce his vengeance, for it had been suddenly borne in upon him that
the boy might suffer acutely in the life that he intended him to live;
but in another moment he had taken himself to task for a weakness that
he considered must have been induced by his dying condition, and he
sternly banished the thought from his mind.

"My lad," he began, "you promise to carry out my wishes after I am
gone?"

"Ay, father, you know that I will. What do you wish me to do?"

The old man pointed to the crucifix.

"You swear it?"

"I swear it."

No sooner had the son uttered the wished-for words than his father fell
back on the couch and closed his eyes. The effort and excitement left
him as white as a sheet. It seemed to the boy as if his father might be
sinking into the last stupor, but after a while he opened his eyes and
called for a glass of _aguardiente_.

With difficulty he gulped it down; then he said feebly:

"My boy, the only American that ever was good was your mother. She was
an angel. All the rest of these cursed gringos are pigs;" and his voice
growing stronger, he repeated: "Ay, pigs, hogs, swine!"

The son made no reply; his father went on:

"What have not these devils done to our country ever since they came
here? At first we received them most hospitably; everything they wanted
was gladly supplied to them. And what did they do in return for our
kindness? Where now are our extensive ranchos--our large herds of
cattle? They have managed to rob us of our lands through clever laws
that we of California cannot understand; they have stolen from our
people thousands and thousands of cattle! There is no infamy that--"

The young man hastened to interrupt him.

"You must not excite yourself, father," he said with solicitude. "They
are unscrupulous--many of them, but all are not so."

"Bah!" ejaculated the old man; "the gringos are all alike. I hate them
all, I--" The old man was unable to finish. He gasped for breath. But
despite his son's entreaties to be calm, he presently cried out:

"Do you know who you are?" And not waiting for a reply he went on with:
"Our name is one of the proudest in Spain--none better! The curse of a
long line of ancestors will be upon you if you tamely submit--not make
these Americans suffer for their seizure of this, our rightful land--our
beautiful California!"

More anxiously than ever now the son regarded his father. His inspection
left no doubt in his mind that the end could not be far off. With great
earnestness he implored him to lie down; but the dying man shook his
head and continued to grow more and more excited.

"Do you know who I am?" he demanded. "No--you think you do, but you
don't. There was a time when I had plenty of money. It pleased me
greatly to pay all your expenses--to see that you received the best
education possible both at home and abroad. Then the gringos came.
Little by little these cursed _Americanos_ have taken all that I had
from me. But as they have sown so shall they reap. I have taken my
revenge, and you shall take more!" He paused to get his breath; then in
a terrible voice he cried: "Yes, I have robbed--robbed! For the last
three years, almost, your father has been a bandit!"

The son sprang to his feet.

"A bandit? You, father, a Ramerrez, a bandit?"

"Ay, a bandit, an outlaw, as you also will be when I am no more, and
rob, rob, rob, these _Americanos_. It is my command and--you--have--
sworn . . ."

The son's eyes were rivetted upon his father's face as the old man fell
back, completely exhausted, upon his couch of rawhides. With a strange
conflict of emotions, the young man remained standing in silence for
a few brief seconds that seemed like hours, while the pallor of death
crept over the face before him, leaving no doubt that, in the solemnity
of the moment his father had spoken nothing but the literal truth.
It was a hideous avowal to hear from the dying lips of one whom from
earliest childhood he had been taught to revere as the pattern of
Spanish honour and nobility. And yet the thought now uppermost in young
Ramerrez's mind was that oddly enough he had not been taken by surprise.
Never by a single word had any one of his father's followers given him
a hint of the truth. So absolute, so feudal was the old man's mastery
over his men that not a whisper of his occupation had ever reached his
son's ears. Nevertheless, he now told himself that in some curious,
instinctive way, he had _known_,--or rather, had refused to know,
putting off the hour of open avowal, shutting his eyes to the
accumulating facts that day by day had silently spoken of lawlessness
and peril. Three years, his father had just said; well, that explained
how it was that no suspicions had ever awakened until after he had
completed his education and returned home from his travels. But since
then a child must have noted that something was wrong: the grim,
sinister faces of the men, constantly on guard, as though the old
_hacienda_ were in a state of siege; the altered disposition of his
father, always given to gloomy moods, but lately doubly silent and
saturnine, full of strange savagery and smouldering fire. Yes, somewhere
in the back of his mind he had known the whole, shameful truth; had
known the purpose of those silent, stealthy excursions, and equally
silent returns,--and more than once the broken heads and bandaged arms
that coincided so oddly with some new tale of a daring hold-up that
he was sure to hear of, the next time that he chanced to ride into
Monterey. For three years, young Ramerrez had known that sooner or later
he would be facing such a moment as this, called upon to make the choice
that should make or mar him for life. And now, for the first time he
realised why he had never voiced his suspicions, never questioned, never
hastened the time of decision,--it was because even now he did not know
which way he wished to decide! He knew only that he was torn and racked
by terrible emotions, that on one side was a mighty impulse to disregard
the oath he had blindly taken and refuse to do his father's bidding;
and on the other, some new and unguessed craving for excitement and
danger, some inherited lawlessness in his blood, something akin to the
intoxication of the arena, when the thunder of the bull's hoofs rang in
his ears. And so, when the old man's lips opened once more, and shaped,
almost inaudibly, the solemn words:

"You have sworn,--" the scales were turned and the son bowed his head in
silence.

A moment later and the room was filled with men who fell on their knees.
On every face, save one, there was an expression of overwhelming grief
and despair; but on that one, ashen grey as it was with the agony of
approaching death, there was a look of contentment as he made a sign to
the padre that he was now ready for him to administer the last rites of
his church.


III.


The Polka Saloon!

How the name stirs the blood and rouses the imagination!

No need to be a Forty-Niner to picture it all as if there that night:
the great high and square room lighted by candles and the warm, yellow
light of kerosene lamps; the fireplace with its huge logs blazing and
roaring; the faro tables with the little rings of miners around them;
and the long, pine bar behind which a typical barkeeper of the period
was busily engaged in passing the bottle to the men clamorous for whisky
in which to drink the health of the Girl.

And the spirit of the place! When and where was there ever such a fine
fellowship--transforming as it unquestionably did an ordinary saloon
into a veritable haven of good cheer for miners weary after a long and
often discouraging day in the gulches?

In a word, the Polka was a marvellous tribute to its girl-proprietor's
sense of domesticity. Nothing that could insure the comfort for her
patrons was omitted. Nothing, it would seem, could occur that would
disturb the harmonious aspect of the scene.

But alas! the night was yet young.

Now the moment for which not a few of that good-humoured and
musically-inclined company were waiting arrived. Clear above the babel
of voices sounded a chord, and the poor old concertina player began
singing in a voice that was as wheezy as his instrument:


   "Camp town ladies sing this song
           Dooda! Dooda!
    Camp town race track five miles long
           Dooda! Dooda! Day!"


Throughout the solo nothing more nerve-racking or explosive than an
occasional hilarious whoop punctuated the melody. For once, at any rate,
it seemed likely to go the distance; but no sooner did the chorus, which
had been taken up, to a man, by the motley crowd and was rip-roaring
along at a great rate, reach the second line than there sounded the
reports of a fusillade of gun-shots from the direction of the street.
The effect was magical: every voice trailed off into uncertainty and
then ceased.

Instantly the atmosphere became charged with tension; a hush fell upon
the room, the joyous light of battle in every eye, if nothing else,
attesting the approach of the foe; while all present, after listening
contemptuously to a series of wild and unearthly yells which announced
an immediate arrival, sprang to their feet and concentrated their
glances on the entrance of the saloon through which there presently
burst a party of lively boys from The Ridge.

A psychological moment followed, during which the occupants of The
Polka Saloon glared fiercely at the newcomers, who, needless to say,
returned their hostile stares. The chances of war, judging from past
performances, far outnumbered those of peace. But as often happens in
affairs of this kind when neither side is unprepared, the desire for
gun-play gave way to mirthless laughter, and, presently, the hilarious
crowd from the rival camp, turning abruptly on their heels, betook
themselves en masse into the dance-hall.

For the briefest of periods, there was a look of keen disappointment on
the faces of the Cloudy Mountain boys as they gazed upon the receding
figures of their sworn enemies; but almost in as little time as it takes
to tell it there was a tumultuous lining up at the bar, the flat surface
of which soon resounded with the heavy blows dealt it by the fists of
the men desirous of accentuating the rhythm when roaring out:


   "Gwine to run all night,
    Gwine to run all day,
    Bet my money on a bob-tail nag,
    Somebody bet on the bay!"


Among those standing at the bar, and looking out of bleared eyes at a
flashy lithograph tacked upon the wall which pictured a Spanish woman
in short skirts and advertised "Espaniola Cigaroos," were two miners:
one with curly hair and a pink-and-white complexion; the other, tall,
loose-limbed and good-natured looking. They were known respectively as
Handsome Charlie and Happy Halliday, and had been arguing in a maudlin
fashion over the relative merits of Spanish and American beauties. The
moment the song was concluded they banged their glasses significantly
on the bar; but since it was an unbroken rule of the house that at the
close of the musician's performance he should be rewarded by a drink,
which was always passed up to him, they needs must wait. The little
barkeeper paid no attention to their demands until he had satisfied
the thirst of the old concertina player who, presently, could be seen
drawing aside the bear-pelt curtain and passing through the small,
square opening of the partition which separated the Polka Saloon from
its dance-hall.

"Not goin', old Dooda Day, are you?" The question, almost a bellow,
which, needless to say, was unanswered, came from Sonora Slim who, with
his great pal Trinidad Joe, was playing faro at a table on one side of
the room. Apparently, both were losing steadily to the dealer whose
chair, placed up against the pine-boarded wall, was slightly raised
above the floor. This last individual was as fat and unctuous looking as
his confederate, the Look-out, was thin and sneaky; moreover, he bore
the sobriquet of The Sidney Duck and, obviously, was from Australia.

"Say, what did the last eight do?" Sonora now asked, turning to the
case-keeper.

"Lose."

"Well, let the tail go with the hide," returned Sonora, resignedly.

"And the ace--how many times did it win?" inquired Trinidad.

"Four times," was the case-keeper's answer.

All this time a full-blooded Indian with long, blue-black hair, very
thick and oily, had been watching the game with excited eyes. His dress
was part Indian and part American, and he wore all kinds of imitation
jewelry including a huge scarf-pin which flashed from his vivid red tie.
Furthermore, he possessed a watch,--a large, brassy-looking article,--
which he brought out on every possible occasion. When not engaged in
helping himself to the dregs that remained in the glasses carelessly
left about the room, he was generally to be found squatted down on the
floor and playing a solitaire of his own devising. But now he reached
over Sonora's shoulder and put some coins on the table in front of the
dealer.

"Give Billy Jackrabbit fer two dolla' Mexican chip," he demanded in a
guttural voice.

The Sidney Duck did as requested. While he was shuffling the cards for
a new deal, the players beat time with their feet to the music that
floated in from the dance-hall. The tune seemed to have an unusually
exhilarating effect on Happy Halliday, for letting out a series of
whoops he staggered off towards the adjoining room with the evident
intention of getting his fill of the music, not forgetting to yell
back just before he disappeared:

"Root hog or die, boys!"

Happy's boisterous exit caused a peculiar expression to appear
immediately on Handsome's face, which might be interpreted as one of
envy at his friend's exuberant condition; at all events, he proceeded
forthwith to order several drinks, gulping them down in rapid
succession.

Meanwhile, at the faro table, the luck was going decidedly against the
boys. In fact, so much so, that there was a dangerous note in Sonora's
voice when, presently, he blurted out:

"See here, gambolier Sid, you're too lucky!"

"You bet!" approved Trinidad, and then added:

"More chips, Australier!"

But Trinidad's comment, as well as his request, only brought forth the
oily smile that The Sidney Duck always smiled when any reference was
made to his game. It was his policy to fawn upon all and never permit
himself to think that an insult was intended. So he gathered in
Trinidad's money and gave him chips in return. For some seconds the men
played on without anything disturbing the game except the loud voice of
the caller of the wheel-of-fortune in the dance-hall. But the boys were
to hear something more from there besides, "Round goes the wheel!" For,
all at once there came to their ears the sounds of an altercation in
which it was not difficult to recognise the penetrating voice of Happy
Halliday.

"Now, git, you loafer!" he was saying in tones that left no doubt in the
minds of his friends that Happy was hot under the collar over something.

A shot followed.

"Missed, by the Lord Harry!" ejaculated Happy, deeply humiliated at his
failure to increase the mortuary record of the camp.

The incident, however, passed unnoticed by the faro players; not a man
within sound of the shot, for that matter, inquired what the trouble
was about; and even Nick, picking up his tray filled with glasses and a
bottle, walked straightway into the dance-hall looking as if the matter
were not worth a moment's thought.

At Nick's going the Indian's face brightened; it gave him the
opportunity for which he had been waiting. Nobly he maintained his
reputation as a thief by quietly going behind the bar and lifting from
a box four cigars which he stowed away in his pockets. But even that,
apparently did not satisfy him, for when he espied the butt of a cigar,
flung into the sawdust on the floor by a man who had just come in, he
picked it up before squatting down again to resume his card playing.

The newcomer, a man of, say, forty years, came slowly into the
room without a word of salutation to anyone. In common with his
fellow-miners, he wore a flannel shirt and boots. The latter gave every
evidence of age as did his clothes which, nevertheless, were neat.
His face wore a mild, gentle look and would have said that he was
companionable enough; yet it was impossible not to see that he was not
willingly seeking the cheer of the saloon but came there solely because
he had no other place to go. In a word, he had every appearance of a man
down on his luck.

Men were continually coming in and going out, but no one paid the
slightest attention to him, even though a succession of audible sighs
escaped his lips. At length he went over to the counter and took a sheet
or two of the paper,--which was kept there for the few who desired to
write home,--a quill-pen and ink; and picking up a small wooden box he
seated himself upon it before a desk--which had been built from a rude
packing-case--and began wearily and laboriously to write.

"The lone star now rises!"

It was the stentorian voice of the caller of the wheel-of-fortune.
One would have thought that the sound would have had the effect of a
thunder-clap upon the figure at the desk; but he gave no sign whatever
of having heard it; nor did he see the suspicious glance which Nick,
entering at that moment, shot at Billy Jackrabbit who was stealing
noiselessly towards the dance-hall where the whoops were becoming so
frequent and evincing such exuberance of spirits that the ubiquitous, if
generally unconcerned, Nick felt it incumbent to give an explanation of
them.

"Boys from The Ridge cuttin' up a bit," he tendered apologetically, and
took up a position at the end of the bar where he could command a view
of both rooms.

As a partial acknowledgment that he had heard Nick's communication,
Sonora turned round slightly in his seat at the faro table and shot a
glance towards the dance-hall. Contempt showed on his rugged features
when he turned round again and addressed the stocky, little man sitting
at his elbow.

"Well, I don't dance with men for partners! Mohamed, threatened with being
seized by the _chiaoux_, retracted his retractation; and in a new
declaration, in the presence of all the consuls, confirmed that
which he made in the morning before the Pasha and his officers.

One consolatory fact results from these afflicting details: the papers
of Major Laing exist, and the learned world will rejoice at the
intelligence; but in the name of humanity, in the name of science,
in the name of the national honour--compromised, perhaps, by
disgraceful or criminal bargains--it must be hoped that justice may
fall upon the guilty, whoever he may be

.

* * * * *

A COFFEE-ROOM CHARACTER.

It was about the year 1805 that we were first ushered into the
dining-house called the Cheshire Cheese, in Wine-office-court.

It is known that Johnson once lodged in this court, and bought an
enormous cudgel while there, to resist a threatened attack from
Macpherson, the author, or editor, of _Ossian's Poems_.

At the time we first knew the place (for its visiters and keepers are
long since changed for the third or fourth time,) many came there who
remembered Johnson and Goldsmith spending their evenings in the
coffee-room; old half-pay officers, staid tradesmen of the neighbourhood,
and the like, formed the principal portion of the company.

Few in this vast city know the alley in Fleet-street which leads to the
sawdusted floor and shining tables; those tables of mahogany, parted
by green-curtained seats, and bound with copper rims to turn the edge
of the knife which might perchance assail them during a warm debate;
John Bull having a propensity to commit such mutilations in the "torrent,
tempest, and whirlwind" of argument. Thousands have never seen the homely
clock that ticks over the chimney, nor the capacious, hospitable-looking
fire-place under,[3] both as they stood half a century ago, when
Fleet-street was the emporium of literary talent, and every coffee-house
was distinguished by some character of note who was regarded as the
oracle of the company.

[3] We may add that still fewer have seen the characteristic whole-length
portrait of "_Harry_," _the waiter_, which has been placed over
the fireplace, by subscription among the frequenters of the room.

_Wageman_ is the painter, and nothing can describe the _bonhommie_ of
Harry, who has just drawn the cork of a pint of port, exulting in
all the vainglory of crust and bees' wing.

--ED. MIRROR.

Among these was old Colonel L----e, in person short and thick-set. He often
sacrificed copiously to the jolly god, in his box behind the door; he
was a great smoker, and had numbered between seventy and eighty years.
Early in the evening he was punctually at his post; he called, for
his pipe and his "go of rack," according to his diurnal custom; and
surveying first the persons at his own table, and then those in
other parts of the room, he commonly sat a few minutes in silence,
as if waiting the stimulating effect of the tobacco to wind up his
conversational powers, or perhaps he was bringing out defined images
from the dim reminiscences which floated in his sensorium.

If a stranger were near, he commonly addressed him with an old soldier's
freedom, on some familiar topic which little needed the formalities
of a set introduction; but soon changed the subject, and commenced
fighting "his battles o'er again." He talked much of Minden, and the
campaigns of 1758 and 59. He boasted of having carried the colours of the
20th regiment, that bore the brunt of the day there, and mainly
contributed to obtain a "glorious victory," as Southey, in his days
of uncourtliness, called that of Blenheim.

But though thus fond of showing "how fields were won," he was equally
delighted with recounting his acquaintance with more peaceful subjects.
He had known Johnson and Goldsmith, together with the list of worthies
who honoured Fleet-street by making it their abode between thirty and
forty years before, and were at that time visitants of the house.

"At this very table," said he, speaking of that which is situated
on the right-hand behind the door, "Johnson used always to sit when
he came here, and Goldsmith also.

I knew them well.
Johnson overawed us all, and every one became silent when he spoke."
The colonel observed of Goldsmith, "That no one would have thought much
of him from his company, though he had a great name in the world."

The colonel also knew something of Churchill, described him as by no
means prepossessing in person, and one of the last who could have been
supposed capable of writing as he wrote. The colonel, in his old age,
imagined he too had a taste for poetry, and boasted of Goldsmith's
having asserted (perhaps jokingly) that he possessed a talent for
writing verse.

This idea working in his mind for years, had induced him to print,
in his old age, what he called, to the best of my recollection, "A
Continuation of the Deserted Village." He always brought a copy with
him of an evening, and was fond of referring to it, and passing it round
for the company to look at--a weakness pardonable in a garrulous
old man.

On revisiting the house, for old acquaintance sake, after an absence
of some years from London, I missed him from his accustomed place,
which I observed to be occupied by a stranger. On inquiry, I found
that he was departed to where human vanity and human wisdom are upon a
level, and where man is alike deaf to the voice of literary and
military ambition.--_New Monthly Magazine_.

* * * * *

NOTES OF A READER.

* * * * * 

THE ANNUALS FOR 1830.

We feel it a duty to the proprietors of these elegant works, as well
as to our readers, to give the following _annonces_ of the several volumes
for 1830:--
The _Keepsake_ is very forward.

   Among the contributors
    are Sir Walter Scott,
    Lord Byron, and the
    author of "Anastasius." Sir
    Walter's contribution is a dramatic romance, in imitation of the
German; and Lord Byron's are ten letters written by him between
1821, and the time of his lordship's death.

The _Forget-Me-Not_ will contain a very gem--being the first known attempt
at poetry, by Lord Byron, copied from the autograph of the noble
poet, and certified by the lady to whom it was addressed--the object
of his lordship's first, if not his only real attachment.

Mr.

Ackermann has likewise announced a _Juvenile_ Forget-Me-Not, so as to
remember all growths.

The _Literary Souvenir_ is in a state of great forwardness. Among the
contributors are the authors of "Kuzzil-bash;" "Constantinople in
1828;" "The Sorrows of Rosalie;" and "Rouge et Noir."

The pencils of Sir Thomas Lawrence, Howard, Collins, Chalon, Harlowe, and
Martin, have furnished subjects for the illustrations.

The _Amulet_, among its illustrations will contain an engraving from
Mulready's picture of an English Cottage; another from Wilkie's "Dorty
Bairn;" and another from a drawing by Martin, engraved by Le Keux, for
which he is said to have received one hundred and eighty guineas. Mr.
Hall, the editor, has likewise been equally fortunate in an accession
of literary talent.

The _Juvenile_ Forget-Me-Not, under the superintendence of Mrs. S.C.
Hall, also promises unusual attractions, both in picture and print.

The _Juvenile Keepsake_, edited by Mr. T. Roscoe, is said to be
completed.

Another Juvenile Annual, to be called the _Zoological Keepsake_,
is announced, with a host of cuts to enliven the "birds, beasts,
and fishes" of the smaller growth.

The _Gem_ will re-appear as the _Annual Gem_, with thirteen embellishments,
superintended by A. Cooper, R. A.

The _Bijou_ promises well.

The embellishments are of the first order, from pictures by Sir
Thomas Lawrence, Stothard, Wilkie, and the lamented Bonington.

Among the gems are a splendid portrait of _the King_, from the
president's picture, in the possession of Sir William Knighton,
Bart.; and a portrait of the beautiful Mrs.

Arbuthnot.

The _Winter's Wreath _will bloom with more than its accustomed beauty.
Among the contributors we notice, for the first time, the author
of "Rank and Talent."

_Religious Annuals_ are on the increase. One of the novelties of this
class is "_Emmanuel_," to be edited by the author of "Clouds and
Sunshine," of the excellence of which we have many grateful
recollections.

The _Iris_, to be edited by the Rev. Thomas Dale, is another novelty in
this way.

   
    The _Musical Bijou_ has among
    its composers, Rossini, Bishop,
    Kalk-brenner, Rodwell, J.
    Barnet, and others. The
    lyrists and prose writers are Sir Walter Scott, T.H.

Bayley, the Ettrick Shepherd, Messrs.
Planche, Richard Ryan, &c.

One of the most splendid designs of the season is a "_Landscape Annual,
or the Tourist in Italy and Switzerland_," from drawings by Prout;
the literary department by T. Roscoe, Esq. and to contain the most
attractive views which occur to the traveller on his route from
Geneva to Rome.

Some of the plates are described as extremely brilliant.

Two _Transatlantic Annuals_, the _Atlantic Souvenir_, published at
Philadelphia, and the _Token_, published at Boston--may be expected
in London.

The foregoing are all the announcements we have been able to collect.

   We
     miss two or three established favourites; but we
          hope to make their promises the subject of a future paragraph

   .
     

   * * *
     * *
          
      THE GOOSE.

   
     

In England the goose is sacred to St. Michael; in Scotland, where
dainties were not going every day,

"'Twas Christmas sent its savoury goose."

The Michaelmas goose is said to owe its origin to Queen Elizabeth's
dining on one at the table of an English baronet on that day when she
received tidings of the dispersion of the Spanish Armada, in
commemoration of which she ordered the _goose_ to make its appearance
every Michaelmas.

In some places, particularly Caithness, geese are cured and smoked, and
are highly relishing. Smoked Solan geese are well known as contributing
to the abundance of a Scottish breakfast, though too rank and
fishy-flavoured for unpractised palates.

The goose has made some figure in English history.
The churlishness of the brave Richard Coeur de Lion, a sovereign
distinguished for an insatiable appetite and vigorous digestion, in an
affair of roast goose, was the true cause of his captivity in
Germany.

The king, disguised as a palmer, was returning to his own dominions,
attended by Sir Fulk Doyley and Sir Thomas de Multon, "brothers in arms,"
and wearing the same privileged garb. They arrived in Almain, (Germany,)
at the town of Carpentras, where,

"A _goose_ they dight to their dinner.
In a tavern where they were.
King Richard the fire bet, Thomas to him the spit set; Fouk Doyley
tempered the wood; Dear a-bought they that good;"

   for in came a _Minstralle_, or she-Minstrel, with offer of specimens
of her art in return for a leg of the goose and a cup of the wine.

Richard, who loved "rich meats," and cared little at this time for
their usual accompaniment, "minstrelsy,"--
"--bade that she would go; That turned him to mickle woe.

The Minstralle took in mind, And said, ye are men unkind:
And if I may ye shall _for-think_ Ye gave me neither meat nor drink!"

The lady, who was English, recognised the king, and denounced him
to the king of Germany, who ordered the pilgrims into his presence,
insulted Richard, "said him shame," called him _taylard_, probably
for his affection for goose, and finally ordered him to a dungeon.
But Richard, a true knightly eater, who, besides roast goose, liked to
indulge in

"Bread and wine, Piment and clarry good and fine; Cranes and swans,
and venison; Partridges, plovers, and heron,--
was neither dainty nor over-nice.

At a pinch he could eat any thing, which on sundry emergencies stood
him in great stead. _Wax_ and _nuts_, and tallow and grease mixed,
carried him through one campaign, when the enemy thought to have starved
out the English army and its cormorant commander.

The courage and strength of Richard were always redoubled after
dinner.

It was then his greatest feats were performed.--_Romance of Coeur de
Lion_.

The livers of geese and poultry are esteemed a great delicacy by some
_gourmands_; and on the continent great pains are taken to procure
fat overgrown livers.

The methods employed to produce this diseased state of the animals
are as disgusting to rational taste as revolting to humanity.

The geese are crammed with fat food, deprived of drink, kept in an
intolerably hot atmosphere, and fastened by the feet (we have heard of
nailing) to the shelves of the fattening cribs. The celebrated _Strasburg
pies_, which are esteemed so great a delicacy that they are often
sent as presents to distant places, are enriched with these diseased
livers.

It is a mistake that these pies are wholly made of this artificial
animal substance

.

* * * * *

TURKEY

Colonel Rottiers, a recent traveller in Turkey, holds out the following
temptation to European enterprise:--
The terrestrial paradise, which is supposed to be situated in Armenia,
appeared to M. Rottiers to stretch along the shores of the Black Sea. The
green banks, sloping into the water, are sometimes decked with box-trees
of uncommon size, sometimes clothed with natural orchards, in which
the cherries, pears, pomegranates, and other fruits, growing in
their indigenous soil, possess a flavour indescribably exquisite.

The bold eminences are crowned with superb forests or majestic
ruins, which alternately rule the scenes of this devoted country,
from the water's edge to the summit of the mountains.

The moral and political condition of the country contrasts forcibly with
the flourishing aspect of nature.
At Sinope there is no commerce, and the Greeks having, in consequence,
deserted the place, the population is at present below 5,000.

This city, once the capital of the great Mithridates, enjoys natural
advantages, which, but for the barbarism of the Turkish government,
would soon raise it into commercial eminence.

It has a deep and capacious harbour--the finest timber in the world grows
in its vicinity--and the district of the interior, with which it
immediately communicates, is one of the most productive and industrious
in Asiatic Turkey.

Amasia, the ancient capital of Cappadocia, Tokat, and Costambol,
are rich and populous towns.

Near the last is held an annual fair, commencing fifteen days before
the feast of Ramadan, and which is said to be attended by at least
fifty thousand merchants, from all parts of the east.

From the nature of the country in which it is situated, M. Rottiers
is disposed to believe that Sinope holds out peculiarly strong
inducements to European enterprise.

He also had an opportunity of observing, that its defences were
gone totally to ruin, and significantly remarks, that it could not
possibly withstand a _coup de main_.

Amastra, a great and wealthy city while possessed by the Genoese in the
middle ages, is now a wretched village, occupied by a few Turkish
families, whose whole industry consists in making a few toys and
articles of wooden ware.

It stands on a peninsula, which appears to have been formerly an island,
and the Isthmus uniting it to the mainland is wholly composed,
according to the account of Mr.

Eton, who surveyed part of this coast, of fragments of columns and
marble friezes.

* * * * *

GEORGIAN WINE.

The chief production of Georgia is wine, which is of excellent
quality, and so abundant in the countries situated between the Caspian
and the Black Seas, that it would soon become a most important object
of exportation, if the people could be induced to improve their methods
of making and preserving it. At present the grapes are gathered and pressed
without any care, and the process of fermentation is so unskilfully
managed, that the wine rarely keeps till the following vintage.
The skins of animals are the vessels in which it is kept. The hair is
turned inwards, and the interior of the bag is thickly besmeared
with asphaltum or mineral tar, which renders the vessel indeed perfectly
sound, but imparts an abominable flavour to the wine, and even adds
to its acescence.
The Georgians have not yet learned to keep their wine in casks, without
which it is vain to look for any improvements in its manufacture.
Yet the mountains abound in the requisite materials, and only a
few coopers are requisite to make the commencement. The consumption of
wine in Georgia, and above all at Tiflis, is prodigiously great.

From the prince to the peasant the ordinary ration of a Georgian,
if we may believe M.

Gamba, is one _tonque_, (equal to five bottles and a half of Bordeaux)
per day.

A _tonque_ of the best wine, such as is drunk by persons of rank, costs
about twenty sous; the inferior wines are sold for less than a sous
per bottle.--_Foreign Quar. Rev_.

* * * * *

HISTORICAL FIDELITY.

The court historiographer of the Burmese, has recorded in the
national chronicle his account of the war with the English to the
following purport:

--"In the years 1186 and 87, the Kula-pyu, or white strangers of
the west, fastened a quarrel upon the Lord of the Golden Palace.

They landed at Rangoon, took that place and Prome, and were permitted
to advance as far as Yandabo; for the king, from motives of piety and
regard to life, made no effort whatever to oppose them.

The strangers had spent vast sums of money in their enterprise; and
by the time they reached Yandabo, their resources were exhausted,
and they were in great distress.

They petitioned the king, who, in his clemency and generosity, sent
them large sums of money to pay their expenses back, and ordered
them out of the country."-- _Crawfurd's Embassy to Ava._
To quote a vulgar proverb, this is making the best of a bad job.

* * * * *

DRESS.

How far a man's clothes are or are not a part of himself, is more
than I would take on myself to decide, without farther inquiry; though
I lean altogether to the affirmative. The inhabitants of the South
Sea Islands were astonished and alarmed when they, first saw the
Europeans strip.
Yet they would have been much more so, could they have entered into
the notions prevalent in the civilized world on the subject of a
wardrobe; could they have understood how much virtue lies inherent
in a superfine broad cloth, how much respectability in a gilt button,
how much sense in the tie of a cravat, how much amiability in the
cut of a sleeve, how much merit of every sort in a Stultz and a Hoby.

There are who pretend, and that with some plausibilty, that these
things are but typical; that taste in dress is but the outward and
visible sign of the frequentation of good company; and that propriety
of exterior is but evidence of a general sense of the fitness of
things.

Yet if this were really the case, if there were nothing intrinsic in the
relation of the clothes to the wearer, how could a good coat at
once render a pickpocket respectable; or a clean shirt pass current,
as it does, with police magistrates for a clean conscience. In England,
a handsome _toggery_ is a better defensive armour, than "helm and
hauberk's twisted mail."

While the seams are perfect, and the elbows do not appear through
the cloth, the law cannot penetrate it.

A gentleman, (that is to say, a man who can pay his tailor's bill,) is
above suspicion; and benefit of clergy is nothing to the privilege
and virtue of a handsome exterior.

That the skin is nearer than the shirt, is a most false and mistaken
idea.

The smoothest skin in Christendom would not weigh with a jury like a
cambric ruffle; and moreover, there is not a poor devil in town
striving to keep up appearances in spite of fortune, who would not
far rather tear his flesh than his unmentionables; which can only
arise from their being so much more important a part of himself.

--_New Monthly Magazine_.

* * * * *
The French have a kind of irritable jealousy towards the English,
which makes them forget their general politeness.

Give them but a civil word, make the least advance, and they receive you
with open arms; but show them that cold reserve with which an
Englishman generally treats all strangers, and every Frenchman's
hand is on his sword.

--_New Monthly Magazine_.

* * * * *

THE GATHERER.

A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.
SHAKSPEARE.

* * * * *

JACK SHEPPARD.

When this notorious felon was under sentence of death, the Right
Hon.
Charles Wolfran Cornwall, then Speaker of the House of Commons, was
strongly solicited to apply to his majesty for a pardon, as he was
related to him.

"No," said Mr.

Cornwall, "I should deserve public censure if I attempted to contribute
to the prolongation of the life of a man who has so frequently been
a nuisance to society, and has given so many proofs that kindness to
him would be cruelty to others. Were my own son to offend one-tenth
part so often as he has done, I should think it my duty rather to
solicit his punishment than his pardon."
C.C.

* * * * *

EPITAPH

_On S---- E----, an intelligent and amiable boy, who was unfortunately
drowned while bathing_.

Though gentle as a dove, his soul sublime, For heav'n impatient, would
not wait for time; Ere youth had bloom'd his virtues ripe were
seen, A man in intellect! a child in mien!
A hallow'd wave from mercy's fount was pour'd, And, wash'd from clay,
to bliss his spirit soar'd.

* * * * *

A HOLY HERMIT.

A hermit, named Parnhe, being upon the road to meet his bishop who had
sent for him, met a lady most magnificently dressed, whose incomparable
beauty drew the eyes of every body on her. The saint having looked
at her, and being himself struck with astonishment, immediately burst
into tears.
Those who were with him wondering to see him weep, demanded the cause
of his grief. "I have two reasons," replied he, "for my tears; I
weep to think how fatal an impression that woman makes on all who
behold her; and I am touched with sorrow when I reflect that I, for my
salvation, and to please God, have never taken one-tenth part of the pains
which this woman has taken to please men alone."
* * * * *

BUNGLING TRANSLATION.

In
spite of his early training and in spite of his oath, he could not share
his father's bitterness. True, the gringos had wrecked the fortunes of
his house; it was due to them that his sole inheritance was an outlaw's
name and an outlaw's leadership. And yet, despite it all, there was
another fact that he could not forget,--the fact that he himself was one
half gringo, one half the same race as that of the unforgotten Girl whom
he had met on the road to Sacramento. Indeed, it had been impossible
to forget her, for she had stirred some depth in him, the existence of
which he had never before suspected. He was haunted by the thought of
her attractive face, her blue eyes and merry, contagious laugh. For the
hundredth time he recalled his feelings on that glorious day when he had
intercepted her on the great highway. And with this memory would come a
sudden shame of himself and occupation,--a realisation of the barrier
which he had deliberately put between the present and the past. Up to
the hour when he had parted from her, and had remained spellbound,
seated on his horse at the fork of the roads, watching the vanishing
coach up to the last minute, he was still a Spanish gentleman, still
worthy in himself,--whatever his father had done,--to offer his love and
his devotion to a pure and honest girl. But now he was an outlaw, a road
agent going from one robbery to another, likely at any time to stain his
hand with the life-blood of a fellow man. And this pretence that he was
stealing in a righteous cause, that he was avenging the wrongs that had
been done to his countrymen,--why, it was the rankest hypocrisy! He knew
in his heart that vengeance and race hatred had nothing whatever to do
with it. It was because he loved it like a game, a game of unforeseen,
unguessed danger. The fever of it was in his blood, like strong drink,--
and with every day's adventure, the thirst for it grew stronger.

Yet, however personally daring, Ramerrez was the last person in the
world to trust to chance for his operations, more than was absolutely
necessary. He handled his men with shrewd judgment and strict
discipline. Furthermore, never was an attack made that was not the
outcome of a carefully matured plan. A prime factor in Ramerrez' success
had from the first been the information which he was able to obtain from
the Mexicans, not connected with his band, concerning the places that
the miners used as temporary depositories for their gold; and it was
information of this sort that led Ramerrez and his men to choose a
certain Mexican settlement in the mountains as a base of operations:
namely, the tempting fact that a large amount of gold was stored nightly
in the Polka Saloon, at the neighbouring camp on Cloudy Mountain.

And there was still another reason.

Despite the fact that his heart had been genuinely touched by the many
and unusual attractions of the Girl, it is not intended to convey the
idea that he was austere or incapable of passion for anyone else. For
that was not so. Although, to give the bandit his due, he had remained
quite exemplary, when one considers his natural charm as well as the
fascination which his adventurous life had for his country-women.
Unfortunately, however, in one of his weak moments, he had foolishly
permitted himself to become entangled with a Mexican woman--Nina
Micheltoreña, by name--whose jealous nature now threatened to prove a
serious handicap to him. It was a particularly awkward situation in
which he found himself placed, inasmuch as this woman had furnished him
with much valuable information. In fact, it was she who had called his
attention to the probable spoils to be had in the American camp near
by. It can readily be imagined, therefore, that it was not without a
premonition of trouble to come that he sought the Mexican settlement
with the intention of paying her a hundred-fold for her valuable
assistance in the past and then be through with her for good and all.


The Mexican or greaser settlements had little in them that resembled
their American neighbours. In the latter there were few women, for the
long distance that the American pioneers had to travel before reaching
the gold-fields of California, the hardships that they knew had to be
encountered, deterred them from bringing their wives and daughters. But
with the Mexicans it was wholly different. The number of women in their
camps almost equalled that of the men, and the former could always
be seen, whenever the weather permitted, strolling about or sitting
in the doorways chatting with their neighbours, while children were
everywhere. In fact, everything about the Mexican settlements conveyed
the impression that they had come to stay--a decided contrast to the
transient appearance of the camps of the Americans.

It was one evening late in the fall that Ramerrez and his band
halted just outside of this particular Mexican settlement. And after
instructing his men where they should meet him the following day, he
sent them off to enjoy themselves for the night with their friends. For,
Ramerrez, although exercising restraint over his band, never failed to
see to it that they had their pleasures as well as their duties--a trait
in his character that had not a little to do with his great influence
over his men. And so it happened that he made his way alone up the main
street to the hall where a dance was going on.

The scene that met his eyes on entering the long, low room was a gay
one. It was a motley crowd gathered there in which the Mexicans,
not unnaturally, predominated. Here and there, however, were native
Californians, Frenchmen, Germans and a few Americans, the latter
conspicuous by the absence of colour in their dress; for with the
exception of an occasional coatless man in a red or blue shirt, they
wore faded, old, black coats,--frequently frock-coats, at that,--which
certainly contrasted unfavourably, at least so far as heightening the
gaiety of the scene was concerned, with the green velvet jackets,
brilliant waistcoats with gold filigree and silver buttons and red
sashes of the Mexicans. That there was not a man present but what was
togged out in his best and was armed, it goes without saying, even
if the weapons of the Mexicans were in the form of murderous knives
concealed somewhere about their persons instead of belts with guns and
knives openly displayed, as was the case with the Americans.

At the time of the outlaw's entrance into the dance-hall the fandango
was over. But presently the fiddles, accompanied by guitars, struck up a
waltz, and almost instantly some twenty or more men and women took the
floor; those not engaged in dancing surrounding the dancers, clapping
their hands and shouting their applause. In order to see if the woman he
sought was present, it was necessary for Ramerrez to push to the very
front of the crowd of lookers-on, where he was not long in observing
that nearly all the women present were of striking appearance and danced
well; likewise, he noted, that none compared either in looks or grace
with Nina Micheltoreña who, he had to acknowledge, even if his feelings
for her were dead, was a superb specimen of a woman.

Good blood ran in the veins of Nina Micheltoreña. It is not in the
province of this story to tell how it was that a favourite in the best
circles of Monterey came to be living in a Mexican camp in the Sierras.
Suffice it to say that her fall from grace had been rapid, though her
dissolute career had in no way diminished her beauty. Indeed, her
features were well-nigh perfect, her skin transparently clear, if dark,
and her form was suppleness itself as she danced. And that she was the
undisputed belle of the evening was made apparent by the number of men
who watched her with eyes that marvelled at her grace when dancing, and
surrounded her whenever she stopped, each pleading with her to accept
him as a partner.

Almost every colour of the rainbow had a place in her costume for
the occasion: The bodice was of light blue silk; the skirt orange;
encircling her small waist was a green sash; while her jet-black hair
was fastened with a crimson ribbon. Diamonds flashed from the earrings
in her ears as well as from the rings on her fingers. All in all, it was
scarcely to be wondered at that her charms stirred to the very depths
the fierce passion of the desperate characters about her.

That Ramerrez dreaded the interview which he had determined to have with
his confederate can easily be understood by anyone who has ever tried to
sever his relations with an enamoured woman. In fact the outlaw dreaded
it so much that he decided to postpone it as long as he could. And so,
after sauntering aimlessly about the room, and coming, unexpectedly,
across a woman of his acquaintance, he began to converse with her,
supposing, all the time, that Nina Micheltoreña was too occupied with
the worshippers at her shrine to perceive that he was in the dance-hall.
But it was decidedly a case of the wish being father to the thought: Not
a movement had he made since he entered that she was not cognisant of it
and, although she hated to acknowledge it to herself, deep down in her
heart she was conscious that he was not as thoroughly under the sway of
her dark eyes as she would have wished. Something had happened in the
last few weeks that had brought about a change in him, but just what it
was she was unable to determine. There were moments when she saw plainly
that he was much more occupied with his daring plans than he was with
thoughts of her. So far, it was true, there had been no evidences on his
part of any hesitation in confiding his schemes to her. Of that she was
positive. But, on the other hand, she had undoubtedly lost some of her
influence over him. It did not lessen her nervousness to realise that he
had been in the hall for some time without making any effort to see her.
Besides, the appointment had been of his own making, inasmuch as he had
sent word by one of his band that she should meet him to-night in this
place. Furthermore, she knew that he had in mind one of the boldest
projects he had yet attempted and needed, to insure success, every scrap
of knowledge that she possessed. In the meantime, while she waited for
him to seek her out, she resolved to show him the extent of her power
to fascinate others; and from that moment never had she seemed more
attractive and alluring to her admirers, in all of whom she appeared to
excite the fiercest of passions. In fact, one word whispered in an ear
by those voluptuous lips and marvellously sweet, musical voice, and the
recipient would have done her bidding, even had she demanded a man's
life as the price of her favour.

It is necessary, however, to single out one man as proving an exception
to this sweeping assertion, although this particular person seemed no
less devoted than the other men present. He was plainly an American and
apparently a stranger to his countrymen as well as to the Mexicans. His
hair was white and closely cropped, the eyebrows heavy and very black,
the lips nervous and thin but denoting great determination, and the
face was tanned to the colour of old leather, sufficiently so as to be
noticeable even in a country where all faces were tanned, swarthy, and
dark. One would have thought that this big, heavy, but extremely-active
man whose clothes, notwithstanding the wear and tear of the road, were
plainly cut on "'Frisco patterns," was precisely the person calculated
to make an impression upon a woman like Nina Micheltoreña; and, yet,
oddly enough, he was the only man in the room whose attentions seemed
distasteful to her. It could not be accounted for on the ground of
his nationality, for she danced gladly with others of his race. Nor
did it look like caprice on her part. On the contrary, there was an
expression on her face that resembled something like fear when she
refused to be cajoled into dancing with him. At length, finding her
adamant, the man left the room.

But as time went by and still Ramerrez kept aloof, Nina Micheltoreña's
excitement began to increase immeasureably. To such a woman the outlaw's
neglect could mean but one thing--another woman. And, finally, unable
to control herself any longer, she made her way to where the woman with
whom Ramerrez had been conversing was standing alone.

"What has the Señor been saying to you?" she demanded, jealousy and
ungovernable passion blazing forth from her eyes.

"Nothing of interest to you," replied the other with a shrug of her
shoulders.

"It's a lie!" burst from Nina's lips. "I heard him making love to you! I
was standing near and heard every tone, every inflection of his voice! I
saw how he looked at you!" And so crazed was she by jealousy that her
face became distorted and almost ugly, if such a thing were possible,
and her great eyes filled with hatred.

The other woman laughed scornfully.

"Make your man stay away from me then--if you can," she retorted.

At that the infuriated Nina drew a knife and cried:

"Swear to me that you'll not see him to-night, or--"

The sentence was never finished. Quick as lightning Ramerrez stepped in
and caught Nina's up-raised arm. For one instant her eyes flashed fire
at him; another, and submissive to his will, she slipped the knife
somewhere in the folds of her dress and the attention that she had
succeeded in attracting was diverted elsewhere. Those who had rushed up
expecting a tragedy returned, once more, to their dancing.

"I have been looking for you, Nina," he said, taking her to one side. "I
want to speak with you."

Nina laughed airily, but only another woman would have been able to
detect the danger lurking in that laugh.

"Have you just come in?" she inquired casually. "It is generally not
difficult to find me when there is dancing." And then with a significant
smile: "But perhaps there were so many men about me that I was
completely hidden from the view of the Señor."

Ramerrez bowed politely his belief in the truth of her words; then he
said somewhat seriously:

"I see a vacant table over in the corner where we can talk without
danger of being overheard. Come!" He led the way, the woman following
him, to a rough table of pine at the farther end of the room where,
immediately, a bottle and two glasses were placed before them. When they
had pledged each other, Ramerrez went on to say, in a low voice, that he
had made the appointment in order to deliver to her her share for the
information that led to his successful holdup of the stage at a place
known as "The Forks," a few miles back; and taking from his pocket a
sack of gold he placed it on the table before her.

There was a silence in which Nina made no movement to pick up the gold;
whereupon, Ramerrez repeated a little harshly:

"Your share."

Slowly the woman rose, picking up the sack as she did so, and with a
request that he await her, she made her way over to the bar where she
handed it to the Mexican in charge with a few words of instruction. In
another moment she was again seated at the table with him.

"Why did you send for me to meet you here?" she now asked. "Why did you
not come to my room--surely you knew that there was danger here?"

Carelessly, Ramerrez let his eyes wander about the room; no one was
paying the slightest attention to them and, apparently, there being
nothing to fear, he answered:

"From whom?"

For a brief space of time the woman looked at him as if she would ferret
out his innermost thoughts; at length, she said with a shrug of the
shoulders:

"Few here are to be thoroughly trusted. The woman you were with--she
knows you?"

"I never met her but once before," was his laconic rejoinder.

Nina eyed him suspiciously; at last she was satisfied that he spoke the
truth, but there was still that cold, abstracted manner of his to be
explained. However, cleverly taking her cue from him she inquired in
business-like tones:

"And how about The Polka Saloon--the raid on Cloudy Mountain Camp?"

A shade of annoyance crossed Ramerrez' face.

"I have decided to give that up--at least for a time."

Again Nina regarded him curiously; when she spoke there was a suspicious
gleam in her eyes, though she said lightly:

"Perhaps you're right--it will not be an easy job."

"Far from it," quickly agreed the man. "But the real reason is, that I
have planned to go below for a while."

The woman's eyes narrowed.

"You are going away then?"

"Yes."

"And what about me? Do I go with you?"

Ramerrez laughed uneasily.

"It is impossible. The fact is, it is best that this should be our last
meeting." And seeing the change that came over her face he went on in
more conciliatory tones: "Now, Nina, be reasonable. It is time that we
understood each other. This interview must be final."

"And you came here to tell me this?" blazed the woman, scowling darkly
upon him. And for the moment she looked all that she was reputed to
be--a dangerous woman!

Receiving no answer, she spoke again.

"But you said that you would love me always?"

The man flushed.

"Did I say that once? What a memory you have!"

"And you never meant it?"

"I suppose so--at the time."

"Then you don't love me any more?"

Ramerrez made no answer.

For some moments Nina sat perfectly still. Her mind was busy trying
to determine upon the best course to pursue. At length she decided to
make one more attempt to see whether he was really in earnest. And if
not . . .

"But to-night," she hazarded, leaning far over the table and putting her
face close to his, her eyes the while flooded with voluptuousness, "you
will come with me to my room?"

Ramerrez shook his head.

"No, Nina, all that is over."

The woman bit her lips with vexation.

"Are you made of stone? What is the matter with you to-night? Is there
anything wrong with my beauty? Have you seen anyone handsomer than I
am?"

"No . . ."

"Then why not come? You don't hate?"

"I don't hate you in the least, but I won't go to your room."

"So!"

There was a world of meaning in that one word. For a while she seemed
to be reflecting; suddenly with great earnestness she said:

"Once for all, Ramerrez, listen to me. Rather than give you up to any
other woman I will give you up to death. Now do you still refuse me?"

"Yes . . ." answered Ramerrez not unkindly and wholly unmoved by her
threat. "We've been good pals, Nina, but it's best for both that we
should part."

In the silence that ensued the woman did some hard thinking. That a man
could ever tire of her without some other woman coming into his life
never once entered into her mind. Something told her, nevertheless, that
the woman with whom he had been conversing was not the woman that she
sought; and at a loss to discover the person to whom he had transferred
his affections, her mind reverted to his avowed purpose of withdrawing
from the proposed Cloudy Mountain expedition. The more Nina reflected
on that subject the more convinced she became that, for some reason or
other, Ramerrez had been deceiving her. It was made all the more clear
to her when she recalled that when Ramerrez' messenger had brought his
master's message that she was to meet him, she had asked where the
band's next rendezvous was to be, and that he, knowing full well that
his countrywoman had ever been cognizant of his master's plans, had
freely given the desired information. Like a flash it came to her now
that no such meeting-place would have been selected for any undertaking
other than a descent upon Cloudy Mountain Camp. Nor was her intuition or
reasoning at fault: Ramerrez had not given up his intention of getting
the miners' gold that he knew from her to be packed away somewhere in
The Polka Saloon; but what she did not suspect, despite his peculiar
behaviour, was that he had taken advantage of the proximity of the two
camps to sever his relation, business and otherwise, with her. And yet,
did he but know it, she was destined to play no small part in his life
for the next few weeks!

Nina Micheltoreña had now decided upon her future course of action: She
would let him think that his desire to break off all relations with her
would not be opposed. Ever a keen judge of men and their ways, she was
well aware that any effort to reclaim him to-night would meet with
disaster. And so when Ramerrez, surprised at her long silence, looked
up, he was met with a smiling face and the words:

"So be it, Ramerrez. But if anything happens, remember you have only
yourself to blame."

Ramerrez was astounded at her cool dismissal of the subject. To judge by
the expression on his face he had indeed obtained his release far easier
than he had deemed it possible. As a matter of fact, her indifference
so piqued him that before he was conscious of his words he had asked
somewhat lamely:

"You wish me well? We part as friends?"

Nina regarded him with well-simulated surprise, and replied:

"Why, of course--the best of friends. Good luck, _amigo_!" And with that
she rose and left him.

And so it was that later that evening after assuring herself that
neither Ramerrez nor any of his band remained in the dance-hall, Nina,
her face set and pale, exchanged a few whispered words with that same
big man towards whom, earlier in the evening, she had shown such
animosity.

The effect of these words was magical; the man could not suppress a
grunt of intense satisfaction.

"She says I'm to meet her to-morrow night at the Palmetto Restaurant,"
said Ashby to himself after the woman had lost herself in a crowd of
her own countrymen. "She will tell where I can put my hands on this
Ramerrez. Bah! It's too good to be true. Nevertheless, I'll be on hand,
my lady, for if anyone knows of this fellow's movements I'll wager you
do."

At that moment Ashby, the Wells Fargo Agent, was nearer than ever before
to the most brilliant capture of all his career.


Late the following afternoon, some five miles from the Mexican
settlement, on a small tableland high above a black ravine which was
thickly timbered with the giant trees of the Sierras, Ramerrez' band was
awaiting the coming of the _Maestro_. It was not to be a long wait and
they stood around smoking and talking in low tones. Suddenly, the sound
of horses climbing was heard, and soon a horseman came in sight whose
appearance had the effect of throwing them instantly into a state of
excitement, one and all drawing their guns and making a dash for their
horses, which were tied to trees. A moment later, however, another
horseman appeared, and laughing boisterously at themselves they slid
their guns back into their belts and retied their horses, for the man
whom they recognised so quickly, the individual who saved the situation,
as it were, was none other than Jose Castro, an ex-_padrona_ of the
bull-fights and the second in command to Ramerrez. He was a wiry,
hard-faced and shifty-eyed Mexican, but was as thoroughly devoted to
Ramerrez as he had been to the young leader's father. On the other hand,
the man who had caused them to fear that a stranger had surprised them,
and that they had been trapped, was Ramerrez or Johnson--the name that
he had assumed for the dangerous work he was about to engage in--and
they had failed to know him, dressed as he was in the very latest
fashion prevailing among the Americans in Sacramento in '49. Nor was it
to be wondered at, for on his head was a soft, brown hat--large, but not
nearly the proportions of a sombrero; a plain, rough tweed coat and a
waistcoat of a darker tan, which showed a blue flannel shirt beneath it;
and his legs were encased in boots topped by dark brown leggings. In a
word, his get-up resembled closely the type of American referred to
disdainfully by the miners of that time as a Sacramento guy; whereas,
the night before he had taken great pains to attire himself as gaudily
as any of the Mexicans at the dance, and he had worn a short black
jacket of a velvety material that was not unlike corduroy and covered
with braid; his breeches were of the same stuff; above his boots were
leather gaiters; and around his waist was a red sash.

It was now close to four o'clock in the afternoon and the band began
their preparations for the raid. To the rear of the small, open space
where they had been waiting was a fairly good-sized cave, in the opening
of which they deposited various articles unnecessary for the expedition.
It took only a short time to do this, and within half an hour from the
time that their leader had so startled them by his strange appearance,
the outlaws were ready to take the trail for Cloudy Mountain. One
comprehensive glance the pseudo-American--and he certainly looked the
part--shot at his picturesque, if rough-looking followers, not a few of
whom showed red bandannas under their sombreros or around their necks--
and then with a satisfied expression on his face--for he had a leader's
pride in his men--he gave the signal and led the way along and down the
steep trail from the tableland. And as from time to time he glanced back
over his shoulders to where the men were coming along in single file, he
could see that in every eye was a glint of exultation at the prospect of
booty.

After they had gone about three miles they crossed the black ravine, and
from there they began to ascend. Up and up they went, the path very hard
on the horses, until finally they came to the top of a pass where it
had been arranged that the band should await further instructions, none
going on further save the two leaders. Here, saddle-girths and guns
were inspected, the last orders given, and with a wave of the hand in
response to the muttered wishes of good luck, Johnson,--for as such
he will be known from this time on,--followed by Castro, made his way
through the forest towards Cloudy Mountain.

For an hour or so Johnson rode along in that direction, checking the
speed of his horse every time the sun came into view and showed that
there was yet some time before sunset. Presently, he made a sign to
Castro to take the lead, for he had never been in this locality before,
and was relying on his subordinate to find a spot from which he could
reconnoitre the scene of the proposed raid without the slightest danger
of meeting any of the miners.

At a very sharp turn of the road to the left Castro struck off through
the forest to the right and, within a few minutes, reached a place where
the trees had thinned out and were replaced by the few scrubs that grew
in a spot almost barren. A minute or so more and the two men, their
horses tied, were able to get an uninterrupted view of Cloudy Mountain.

The scene before them was one of grandeur. Day was giving place to
night, fall to winter, and yet at this hour all the winds were stilled.
In the distance gleamed the snow-capped Sierras, range after range as
far as the eye could see to the northwest; in the opposite direction
there stood out against the steel-blue of the sky a succession of wooded
peaks ever rising higher and higher until culminating in the faraway
white mountains of the south; and below, they looked upon a ravine that
was brownish-green until the rays of the departing orb touched the
leaves with opal tints.

Now the fast-falling sun flung its banner of gorgeous colours across the
western sky. Immediately a wonderful light played upon the fleecy cumuli
gathered in the upper heavens of the east and changed them from pearl to
brilliant scarlet. For a moment, also, the purple hills became wonderful
piles of dull gold and copper; a moment more and the magic hand of the
King of Day was withdrawn.

In front of them now, dark, gloomy and threatening rose Cloudy Mountain,
from which the Mining Camp took its name; and on a plateau near its
base the camp itself could plainly be seen. It consisted of a group
of miners' cabins set among pines, firs and manzaneta bushes with two
larger pine-slab buildings, and scattered around in various places were
shafts, whose crude timber-hoists appeared merely as vague outlines in
the fast-fading light. Actus. v. Scæna. iiij.

+Gawyn Goodlucke.

Tristram Trustie. C. Custance. Sym Suresby.+
+Ga. Good.+ And was it none other than ye to me reporte?

+Tristram.+ No, and here were ye wished to haue seene the sporte.

+Ga. Good.+ Woulde I had, rather than halfe of that in my purse.

+Sim Sure.+ And I doe muche reioyce the matter was no wurse, And like as
to open it, I was to you faithfull, So of dame Custance honest truth I
am ioyfull.

For God forfende that I shoulde hurt hir by false reporte.

+Ga. Good.+ Well, I will no longer holde hir in discomforte.

+C. Custance.+ Nowe come they hitherwarde, I trust all shall be
well.

+Ga. Good.+ Sweete Custance neither heart can thinke nor tongue tell,
Howe much I ioy in your constant fidelitie, Come nowe kisse me the pearle
of perfect honestie.

+C. Custance.+ God lette me no longer to continue in lyfe, Than I shall
towardes you continue a true wyfe.

+Ga. Good.+ Well now to make you for this some parte of amendes, I shall
desire first you, and then suche of our frendes, As shall to you seeme
best, to suppe at home with me, Where at your fought fielde we shall
laugh and mery be.

+Sim Sure.+ And mistresse I beseech you, take with me no greefe, I did a
true mans part, not wishyng you repreefe.

+C. Custance.+ Though hastie reportes through surmises growyng, May of
poore innocentes be vtter ouerthrowyng, Yet bicause to thy maister thou
hast a true hart, And I know mine owne truth, I forgiue thee for my
part.

+Ga. Goodl.+ Go we all to my house, and of this geare no more.
Goe prepare all things Sym Suresby, hence, runne afore.

+Sim Sure.+ I goe. _Ex._
+G. Good.+ But who commeth yond, M. Merygreeke?

+C. Custance.+ Roister Doisters champion, I shrewe his best
cheeke.
+T. Trusty.+ Roister Doister selfe your wower is with hym too.
Surely some thing there is with vs they haue to doe.
Actus. v. Scæna. v.
+M. Merygreeke. Ralph Roister. Gawyn Goodlucke. Tristram Trustie.
C. Custance.+
+M. Mery.+ Yond I see Gawyn Goodlucke, to whome lyeth my message,
I will first salute him after his long voyage, And then make all
thing well concerning your behalfe.
+R. Royster.+ Yea for the pashe of God.
+M. Mery.+ Hence out of sight ye calfe, Till I haue spoke with them,
and then I will you fet, 
+R. Royster.+ In Gods name.
+M. Mery.+ What master Gawin Goodluck wel met And from your long
voyage I bid you right welcome home.

+Ga. Good.+ I thanke you.
+M. Mery.+ I come to you from an honest mome.
+Ga. Good.+ Who is that?
+M. Mery.+ Roister Doister that doughtie kite.
+C. Custance.+ Fye, I can scarce abide ye shoulde his name recite.
+M. Mery.+ Ye must take him to fauour, and pardon all past, He
heareth of your returne, and is full yll agast.

+Ga.As a matter of fact he was already listening intently to the
bursts of song and shouts of revelry that came every now and then from
the nearby saloon. But his master, unaccountably under the spell of the
moon's mystery and romance, watched it until it shed its silvery and
magic light upon the lone cabin on the top of Cloudy Mountain, which
Fate had chosen for the decisive scene of his dramatic life.


V.


Inside The Polka, not a bit more, and not a bit less sardonic--it was
this imperturbability which made him so resistless to most people--than
he was prior to the banishment of The Sidney Duck, the Sheriff of
Manzaneta County waited patiently until the returning puppets of his
will had had time to compose themselves. It took them merely the
briefest of periods, but it served to increase visibly the long ash at
the end of Rance's cigar. At length he shot a hawk-like glance at Sonora
and proposed a little game of poker.

"This time, gentlemen--" he said, with a significant pause and accent--
"just for social recreation. What do you say?"

"I'm your Injun!" acquiesced Sonora, rubbing his hands together
gleefully at the prospect of winning from the Sheriff, whom he liked
none too well.

"That's me, too!" concurred Trinidad.

"Chips, then, Nick!" called out the Sheriff, quietly taking a seat at
the table; while Sonora, bubbling over with spirits, hitched up his
trousers in sailor fashion and executed an impromptu hornpipe, bellowing
in his deep, base voice:


   "I shipped aboard of a liner, boys--"


"Renzo, boys, renzo," finished Trinidad, falling in place at the table.

At this point the outside door was unexpectedly pushed open, inward, and
the Deputy-Sheriff came into their midst.

"Ashby just rode in with his posse," he announced huskily to his
superior.

The Sheriff flashed a look of annoyance and inquired of the gaunt,
hollow-cheeked, muscular Deputy whose beaver overcoat was thrown open
so that his gun and powder-flask showed plainly in his belt:

"Why, what's he doing here?"

"He's after Ramerrez," answered the Deputy, eyeing him intently.

Rance received this information in silence and went on with his
shuffling of the cards; presently, unconcernedly, he remarked:

"Ramerrez--Oh, that's the polite road agent who has been visiting the
other camps?"

"Yes; he's just turned into your county," declared the Deputy,
meaningly.

"What?" Sonora looked dumbfounded.

The Deputy nodded and proceeded to the bar. And while he drained the
contents of his glass, the Minstrel played on his banjo, much to the
amusement of the men, who showed their appreciation by laughing
heartily, the last bars of, "Pop Goes the Weasel."

"Hello, Sheriff!" greeted Ashby, coming in just as the merriment over
the Minstrel's little joke had died away. Ashby's voice--quick, sharp
and decisive was that of a man accustomed to ordering men, but his
manner was suave, if a trifle gruff. Moreover, he was a man of whom it
could be said, paradoxical as it may seem, that he was never known to be
drunk nor ever known to be sober. It was plain from his appearance that
he had been some time on the road.

Rance rose and politely extended his hand. And, although the greeting
between the two men was none too cordial, yet in their look, as they
eyed each other, was the respect which men have for others engaged
more or less in the same business and in whom they recognise certain
qualities which they have in common. In point of age Ashby was, perhaps,
the senior. As far as reputation was concerned, both men were accounted
nervy and square. Rance introduced him to Sonora and the others, saying:

"Boys, Mr. Ashby of Wells Fargo."

The latter had a pleasant word or two for the men; then, turning to the
Deputy, he said:

"And how are you these days?"

"Fit. And yourself?"

"Same here." Turning now to the barkeeper, Ashby, with easy familiarity,
added: "Say, Nick, give us a drink."

"Sure!" came promptly from the little barkeeper.

"Everybody'll have the same?" inquired Ashby, turning once more to the
men.

"The same!" returned the men in chorus.

Thereupon, Nick briskly slapped down a bottle and four glasses before
the Sheriff, and leaving him to do the honours, disappeared into the
dance-hall.

"'Well, I trust the Girl who runs The Polka is well?" inquired Ashby,
pushing his glass near the bottle.

"Fine as silk," vouched Sonora, adding in the next breath: "But, say,
Mr. Ashby, how long you been chasm' up this road agent?"

"Oh, he only took to the road a few months ago," was Ashby's answer.
I relapse into sin--and he forgives me! Decidedly, the good God is
a very poltroon!"

This seems to exceed the unrestrained ease and confidence usual toward
an earthly father; but we must not forget that the inflection
modifies the meaning of a phrase, and that _poltroon_ may mean
_adorable_.

This penitent, now famous, carried his provocation of the inexhaustible
goodness very far. At one time in his life he tried to blow out his
brains!

By a mere chance--he probably said, by a miracle,--the wound was not
mortal; but he always retained the accusing scar. I never knew whether
this unpleasant adventure preceded or followed Mr. L.'

s conversion, or whether it was coincident with one of the relapses of
which that repentant sinner accused himself.

   Another very religious friend
    was no less fragile in the
    observance of his firm vow.
    Becoming
            a widower, he swore eternal fidelity to the "departed angel."

Soon after, he was seen with another wife on his arm!

"And your angel?" whispered a sceptic in his ear.

"Oh, my friend!" was the reply, "this one is an archangel."
Another figure haunted Delsarte and afforded yet another proof of
his tolerance.

The Italian, C----, shared neither his political ideas nor his religious
beliefs; he was one of those refugees whom the defeats of the
Carbonari have cast upon our soil, and whose necessities France--does
our neighbor remember this?

--for years supplied, as if they were her own children. However,
she could offer them but a precarious living.

Signer C., to give some charm to his wretched existence, desired to add
to his scanty budget a strong dose of hope and intellectual
enjoyment:
hope in--what came later--the independence and unity of Italy.

By way of diversion, this stranger gratified himself by indulging
in a whim; he had dreams of a panacea, a plant whose complex virtues
should combat all the evils which fall to the lot of poor humanity; but
this marvel must be sought in America.

And how was he to get there, when he could barely scrape together
the necessary five cents to ride in an omnibus!

The Isabellas of our day do not build ships for every new Columbus who
desires to endow the world with some wonderful treasure trove!

And yet this man was not mad; he was one of those who prove how many
insane ideas a brain may cherish, without being entitled to a cell
in Bedlam or Charenton.

While awaiting the realization of his golden dreams, poor C. spent his
time in perpetual adoration of the Talma of Music--for so Théophile
Gautier styled Delsarte; he never missed a lecture; he took part in
the talks which lengthened out the evening when the parlor was at
last cleared of superfluous guests.

Among his many manias--how many people have this one in common with
him!

--the Italian cherished the idea that he was of exceptional ability,
and that in more than one direction.

He proclaimed that Delsarte went far beyond everything that he
knew--equal to all that could be imagined or desired in regard to
art--but as for himself, C., was he not from a land where art is
hereditary, where it is breathed in at every pore, from birth?

And more than the mass of his countrymen, did he not feel the volcanic
heat of the sacred fire burning within him?

One evening, he made a bold venture. He had prepared a tirade written by
some Italian poet. All that I remember of it is that it began with the
words: "_Trema--Trema!_" [Tremble--Tremble!]
The impromptu tragedian recited several lines in a declamatory tone
accompanied by gestures to match. Delsarte listened without a sign
of praise or blame. Then he rose, struck an attitude appropriate to the
text, but perfectly natural, and, in his quiet way, said:

"Might not you as well give it in this key?" Then, in a voice of
repressed harshness, his gestures subdued but expressive of hatred,
he repeated the two words: "_Trema--Trema!_"

The listeners shuddered. Delsarte had produced one of those effects which
can never be forgotten.

The smouldering ashes did not burn long; four syllables were enough
to extinguish the flame.

Following, not the chronological order, but that of circumstances and
incidents calculated to throw light on my subject, I must once
more retrace the course of years.

C.'

s persistency went on before and after 1848. During the second period,
all minds were greatly agitated by the state of politics.

C., in spite of his undoubted liberalism--he spent a great part of
his leisure in making democratic constitutions--thought, like every
other claimant, that he had _duties to perform_; and that he might
as well, to facilitate his task, make an ally of the Emperor, without
scruple; but access to royalty was no less impossible than landing
on the American shore where his panacea grew.

As far back, almost, as she could remember, the Girl had lived among
them and had ever been a true comrade, sharing their disappointments and
thrilling with their successes. Of a nature pure and simple, she was,
nevertheless, frank and outspoken. Moreover, she knew to a dot what was
meant when someone--bolder than his mates--stretched out his arms to
her. One such exhibition on a man's part she was likely to forgive and
forget, but the wrath and scorn that had blazed forth from her blue
eyes on such an occasion had been sufficient to prevent a repetition of
the offence. In short, unspoiled by their coarse flattery, and, to all
appearances, happy and care-free, she attended to the running of The
Polka wholly unsmirched by her environment.

But a keen observer would not have failed to detect that the Girl took
a little less pleasure in her surroundings than she had taken in them
before she had made the trip to Monterey. Downright glad, to use her own
expression, as she had been on her return to see the boys of the camp
and hear their boisterous shouts of welcome when the stage drew up in
front of The Polka, she had to acknowledge that her home-coming was not
quite what she expected. It was as if she had suddenly been startled out
of a beautiful dream wherein she had been listening to the soft music of
her lover's voice and brought face to face with the actualities of life,
which, in her case, to say the least, were very real.

For hours after leaving her admirer sitting motionless on his horse on
the great highway between Monterey and Sacramento, the Girl had indulged
in some pertinent thoughts which, if the truth were known, were anything
but complimentary to her behaviour. And, however successful she was
later on in persuading herself that he would eventually seek her out,
there was no question that at first she felt that the chances of her
ever setting eyes on him again were almost negligible. All the more
bitterly, therefore, did she regret her folly in not having told him
where she lived; particularly so since she assured herself that not only
was he the handsomest man that she had ever seen, but that he was the
only one who had ever succeeded in chaining her attention. That he had
been making love to her with his eyes, if not with words, she knew
only too well--a fact that had been anything but displeasing to her.
Indeed, far from having felt sorry that she had encouraged him, she,
unblushingly, acknowledged to herself that, if she had the thing to do
over again, she would encourage him still more.

Was she then a flirt? Not at all, in the common acceptation of the word.
All her knowledge of the ways of the world had been derived from Mother
Nature, who had supplied her with a quick and ready wit to turn aside,
with a smile, the protestations of the boys; had taught her how to live
on intimate terms with them and yet not be intimate; but when it came
to playing at love, which every city maid of the same age is an adept
at, she was strangely ignorant. Of a truth, then, it was something
far broader and deeper that had entered into her heart--love. Not
infrequently love comes as suddenly as this to young women who live
in small mining camps or out-of-the-way places where the men are
practically of a type; it is their unfamiliarity with the class which
a stranger represents when he makes his appearance in their midst that
is responsible, fully as much as his own personality, for their being
attracted to him. It is not impossible, of course, that if the Girl had
met him in Cloudy,--say as a miner there,--the result would have been
precisely the same. But it is much more likely that the attendant
conditions of their meeting aided him in appealing to her imagination,
and in touching a chord in her nature which, under other circumstances,
would not have responded in as many months as there were minutes on that
eventful day.

Little wonder then, that as each succeeding mile travelled by the stage
took her further and further away from him, something which, as yet, she
did not dare to name, kept tugging at her heartstrings and which she
endeavoured to overcome by listening to the stage driver's long-winded
reminiscences and anecdotes concerning the country through which
they were passing. But, although she made a brave effort to appear
interested, it did not take him long to realise that something was on
his passenger's mind and, being a wise man, he gradually relapsed into
silence, with the result that, before the long journey ended at Cloudy
Mountain, she had deceived herself into believing that she was certain
to see her admirer again.

But as the days grew into weeks, the weeks into months, and the Girl
neither saw nor heard anything of him, it was inevitable that the
picture that he had left on her mind should begin to grow dim.
Nevertheless, it was surprising what a knack his figure had of appearing
before her at various times of the day and night, when she never failed
to compare him with the miners in the camp, and, needless to say,
unflatteringly to them. There came a time, it is true, when she was
sorely tempted to tell one of them something of this new-found friend of
hers; but rightly surmising the effect that her praising of her paragon
would have upon the recipient of her confidences, she wisely resolved to
lock up his image in her heart.

Of course, there were moments, too, when the Girl regretted that there
was no other woman--some friend of her own sex in the camp--to whom she
could confide her little romance. But since that boon was denied her,
she took to seeking out the most solitary places to dream of him. In
such moods she would climb to a high crag, a few feet from her cabin,
and with a reminiscent and far-away look in her eyes she would sit for
hours gazing at the great canyons and gorges, the broad forests and
wooded hillsides, the waterfalls flashing silver in the distance, and,
above all, at the wonderously-grand and snow-capped peaks of the main
range.

At other times she would take the trail leading from the camp to the
country below, and after wandering about aimlessly in the beautiful and
mysterious forests, she would select some little glen through which
a brook trickled and murmured underneath the ferns into a pool, and
seating herself on a clump of velvet moss, the great sugar pines and
firs forming a canopy over her head, she would whisper her secret
thoughts and wild hopes to the gorgeously-plumed birds and saucy
squirrels scampering all about her. The hours spent thus were as oases
in her otherwise practical existence, and after a while she would
return laden down with great bunches of ferns and wild flowers which,
eventually, found a place on the walls of The Polka.


     *     *     *     *     *     *


Glancing at the bar to see that everything was to her satisfaction, the
Girl greeted the boys warmly, almost rapturously with:

"Hello, boys! How's everythin'? Gettin' taken care of?"

"Hello, Girl!" sang out Sonora in what he considered was his most
fetching manner. He had been the first to reach the coveted position
opposite the Girl, although Handsome, who had followed her in, was
leaning at the end of the bar nearest to the dance-hall.

"Hello, Sonora!" returned the Girl with an amused smile, for it was
impossible with her keen sense of humour not to see Sonora's attempts
to make himself irresistible to her. Nor did she fail to observe that
Trinidad, likewise, had spruced himself up a little more than usual,
with the same purpose in mind.

"Hello, Girl!" he said, strolling up to her with a ludicrous swagger.

"Hello, Trin!" came from the Girl, smilingly.

There was an awkward pause in which both Sonora and Trinidad floundered
about in their minds for something to say; at length, a brilliant
inspiration came to the former, and he asked:

"Say, Girl, make me a prairie oyster, will you?"

"All, right, Sonora, I'll fix you right up," returned the Girl, smiling
to herself at his effort. But at the moment that she was reaching for a
bottle back of the bar, a terrific whoop came from the dance-hall, and
ever-watchful lest the boys' fun should get beyond her control, she
called to her factotum to quiet things down in the next room, concluding
warningly:

"They've had about enough."

When the barkeeper had gone to do her bidding, the Girl picked up an
egg, and, poising it over a glass, she went on:

"Say, look 'ere, Sonora, before I crack this 'ere egg, I'd like to state
that eggs is four bits apiece. Only two hens left--" She broke off
short, and turning upon Handsome, who had been gradually sidling
up until his elbows almost touched hers, she repulsed him a trifle
impatiently:

"Oh, run away, Handsome!"

A flush of pleasure at Handsome's evident discomfiture spread over
Sonora's countenance, and comical, indeed, to the Girl, was the majestic
air he took on when he ordered recklessly:

"Oh, crack the egg--I'll stand for it."

But Sonora's fancied advantage over the others was of short duration,
for the next instant Nick, stepping quickly forward with a drink, handed
it to the Girl with the words:

"Regards of Blonde Harry."

Again Sonora experienced a feeling akin to jealousy at what he termed
Blonde Harry's impudence. It almost immediately gave way to a paroxysm
of chuckling; for, the Girl, quickly taking the glass from Nick's hand,
flung its contents into a nearby receptacle.

"There--tell 'im that it hit the spot!" She laughed.

Nick roared with the others, but on the threshold of the dance-hall he
paused, hesitated, and finally came back, and advised in a low tone:

"Throw around a few kind words, Girl--good for the bar."

The Girl surveyed the barkeeper with playful disapproval in her eye.
However advantageous might be his method of working up trade, she
disdained to follow his advice, and her laughing answer was:

"Oh, you Nick!"

The peal of laughter that rung in Nick's ears as he disappeared through
the door, awakened Ashby and brought him instantly to his feet. Despite
his size, he was remarkably quick in his movements, and in no time at
all he was standing before the bar with a glass, which he had filled
from the bottle that had stood in front of him on the table, and was
saying:

"Compliments of Wells Fargo."

"Thank you," returned the Girl; and then while she shook the prairie
oyster: "You see we live high-shouldered here."

"That's what!" put in Sonora with a broad grin.

"What cigars have you?" asked Ashby, at the conclusion of his round of
drinks.

"Regalias, Auroras and Eurekas," reeled off the Girl with her eye upon
Billy Jackrabbit, who had quietly come in and was sneaking about in an
endeavour to find something worth pilfering.

"Oh, any will do," Ashby told her, with a smile; and while he was
helping himself from a box of Regalias, Nick suddenly appeared, calling
out excitedly:

"Man jest come in threatenin' to shoot up the furniture!"

"Who is it?" calmly inquired the Girl, returning the cigar-box to its
place on the shelf.

"Old man Watson!"

"Leave 'im shoot,--he's good for it!"

"Nick! Nick!" yelled several voices in the dance-hall where old man
Watson was surely having the time of his life.

And still the Girl paid not the slightest attention to the shooting or
the cries of the men; what did concern her, however, was the fact that
the Indian was drinking up the dregs in the whisky glasses on the faro
table.

"Here, you, Billy Jackrabbit! What are you doin' here?" she exclaimed
sharply, causing that generally imperturbable redskin to start
perceptibly. "Did you marry my squaw yet?"

Billy Jackrabbit's face wore as stolid an expression as ever, when he
answered:

"Not so much married squaw--yet."

"Not so much married . . ." repeated the Girl when the merriment, which
his words provoked, had subsided. "Come 'ere, you thievin' redskin!" And
when he had slid up to the bar, and she had extracted from his pockets a
number of cigars which she knew had been pilfered, she added: "You git
up to my cabin an' marry my squaw before I git there." And at another
emphatic "Git!" the Indian, much to the amusement of all, started for
the Girl's cabin.

"Here--here's your prairie oyster, Sonora," at last said the Girl; and
then turning to the Sheriff and speaking to him for the first time, she
called out gaily: "Hello, Rance!"

"Hello, Girl!" replied the Gambler without even a glance at her or
ceasing to shuffle the cards.

Presently, Sonora pulled out a bag of gold-dust and told the Girl to
clear the slate out of it. She was in the act of taking the sack when
Nick, rushing into the room and jerking his thumb over his shoulder,
said:

"Say, Girl, there's a fellow in there wants to know if we can help out
on provisions."

"Sure; what does he want?" returned the Girl with a show of willingness
to accommodate him.

"Bread."

"Bread? Does he think we're runnin' a bakery?"

"Then he asked for sardines."

"Sardines? Great Gilead! You tell 'im we have nothin' but straight
provisions here. We got pickled oysters, smokin' tobacco an' the best
whisky he ever saw," rapped out the Girl, proudly, and turned her
attention to the slate.

"You bet!" vouched Trinidad with a nod, as Nick departed on his errand.

Finally, the Girl, having made her calculations, opened the counter
drawer and brought forth some silver Mexican dollars, saying:

"Sonora, an' Mr. Ashby, your change!"

Ashby picked up his money, only to throw it instantly back on the bar,
and say gallantly:

"Keep the change--buy a ribbon at The Ridge--compliments of Wells
Fargo."

"Thank you," smiled the Girl, sweeping the money into the drawer, but
her manner showed plainly that it was not an unusual thing for the
patrons of The Polka to refuse to accept the change.

Not to be outdone, Sonora quickly arose and went over to the counter
where, pointing to his stack of silver dollars, he said:

"Girl, buy two ribbons at The Ridge;" and then with a significant glance
towards Ashby, he added: "Fawn's my colour."

And again, as before, the voice that said, "Thank you," was colourless,
while her eyes rested upon the ubiquitous Nick, who had entered with an
armful of wood and was intent upon making the room warmer.

Rance snorted disapprovingly at Sonora's prodigality. That he considered
that both his and Ashby's attentions to the Girl had gone far enough
was made apparent by the severe manner in which he envisaged them and
drawled out:

"Play cyards?"

But to that gentleman's surprise the men did not move. Instead, Ashby
raising a warning finger to the Girl, went on to advise that she should
bank with them oftener, concluding with:

"And then if this road agent Ramerrez should drop in, you won't lose so
much--"

"The devil you say!" cut in Sonora; while Trinidad broke out into a
scornful laugh.

"Oh, go on, Mr. Ashby!" smilingly scoffed the Girl. "I keep the
specie in an empty keg now. But I've took to bankin' personally in my
stockin'," she confided without the slightest trace of embarrassment.

"But say, we've got an awful pile this month," observed Nick, anxiously,
leaving the fireplace and joining the little ring of men about her. "It
makes me sort o' nervous--why, Sonora's got ten thousand alone fer safe
keepin' in that keg an'--"

"--Ramerrez' band's everywhere," completed Ashby with a start, his quick
and trained ear having caught the sound of horses' hoofs.

"But if a road agent did come here, I could offer 'im a drink an' he'd
treat me like a perfect lady," contended the Girl, confidently.

"You bet he would, the durned old halibut!" was Sonora's comment, while
Nick took occasion to ask the Girl for some tobacco.

"Solace or Honeydew?" she inquired, her hands already on the assortment
of tobacco underneath the bar.

"Dew," was Nick's laconic answer.

And then it was that the Girl heard for the first time the sound of
the galloping hoofs; startled for the moment, she inquired somewhat
uneasily:

"Who's this, I wonder?"

But no sooner were the words spoken than a voice outside in the darkness
sung out sharply:

"Hello!"

"Hello!" instantly returned another voice, which the Girl recognised at
once as being that of the Deputy.

"Big holdup last night at The Forks!" the first voice was now saying.

"Holdup!" repeated several voices outside in tones of excitement.

"Ramerrez--" went on the first voice, at which ominous word all,
including Ashby, began to exchange significant glances as they echoed:

"Ramerrez!"

The name had barely died on their lips, however, than Nick precipitated
himself into their midst and announced that The Pony Express had
arrived, handing up to the Girl, at the same time, a bundle of letters
and one paper.

"You see!" maintained Ashby, stoutly, as he watched her sort the
letters; "I was right when I told you . . ."

"Look sharp! There's a greaser on the trail!" rang out warningly the
voice of The Pony Express.

"A greaser!" exclaimed Rance, for the first time showing any interest in
the proceedings; and then without looking up and after the manner of a
man speaking to a good dog, he told the Deputy, who had followed Nick
into the room:

"Find him, Dep."

For some time the Girl occupied herself with cashing in the chips which
Nick brought to her--a task which she performed with amazing correctness
and speed considering that her knowledge of the science of mathematics
had been derived solely from the handling of money at The Polka. Now she
went over to Sonora, who sat at a table reading.

"You got the newspaper, I see," she observed. "But you, Trin, I'm sorry
you ain't got nothin'," she added, with a sad, little smile.

"So long!" hollered The Pony Express at that moment; whereupon, Ashby
rushed over to the door and called after him:

"Pony Express, I want you!" Satisfied that his command had been heard he
retraced his footsteps and found Handsome peering eagerly over Sonora's
shoulder.

"So, Sonora, you've got a newspaper," Handsome was saying.

"Yes, but the infernal thing's two months old," returned the other
disgustedly.

Handsome laughed, and wheeling round was just in time to see the door
flung open and a young fellow advance towards Ashby.

The Pony Express was a young man of not more than twenty years of
age. He was smooth-faced and unshaven and, needless to say, was light
of build, for these riders were selected for their weight as well
as for their nerve. He wore a sombrero, a buckskin hunting-shirt,
tight trousers tucked into high boots with spurs, all of which were
weather-beaten and faded by wind, rain, dust and alkali. A pair of Colt
revolvers could be seen in his holsters, and he carried in his hands,
which were covered with heavy gloves, a mail pouch--it being the
company's orders not to let his _muchilo_ of heavy leather out of his
hands for a second.

"You drop mail at the greaser settlement?" inquired Ashby in his
peremptory and incisive manner.

"Yes, sir," quickly responded the young man; and then volunteered:
"It's a tough place."

Ashby scrutinised the newcomer closely before going on with:

"Know a girl there named Nina Micheltoreña?"

But before The Pony Express had time to reply the Girl interposed
scornfully:

"Nina Micheltoreña? Why, they all know 'er! She's one o' them Cachuca
girls with droopy, Spanish eyes! Oh, ask the boys about 'er!" And with
that she started to leave the room, stopping on her way to clap both
Trinidad and Sonora playfully on the back. "Yes, ask the boys about 'er,
they'll tell you!" And so saying she fled from the room, followed by the
men she was poking fun at.

"Hold her letters, you understand?" instructed Ashby who, with the
Sheriff, was alone now with The Pony Express.

"Yes, sir," he replied earnestly. A moment later there being no further
orders forthcoming he hastily took his leave.

Ashby now turned his attention to Rance.

"Sheriff," said he, "to-night I expect to see this Nina Micheltoreña
either here or at The Palmetto."

Rance never raised an eyebrow.

"You do?" he remarked a moment later with studied carelessness. "Well,
the boys had better look to their watches. I met that lady once."

Ashby shot him a look of inquiry.

"She's looking to that five thousand reward for Ramerrez," he told him.

Rance's interest was growing by leaps and bounds though he continued to
riffle the cards.

"What? She's after that?"

"Sure thing. She knows something . . ." And having delivered himself
of this Ashby strode over to the opposite side of the room where his
coat and hat were hanging upon an elk horn. While putting them on he
came face to face with the Girl who, having merely glanced in at the
dance-hall, was returning to take up her duties behind the bar. "Well,
I'll have a look at that greaser up the road," he said, addressing her,
and then went on half-jocularly, half-seriously: "He may have his eye on
the find in that stocking."

"You be darned!" was the Girl's parting shot at him as he went out into
the night.

There was a long and impressive pause in which, apparently, the Sheriff
was making up his mind to speak of matters scarcely incident to the
situation that had gone before; while fully conscious that she was to
be asked to give him an answer--she whose answer had been given many
times--the Girl stood at the bar in an attitude of amused expectancy,
and fussing with things there. At length, Rance, glancing shyly over his
shoulder to make sure that they were alone, became all at once grave and
his voice fell soft and almost caressingly.

"Say, Girl!"

The young woman addressed stole a look at him from under her lashes, all
the while smiling a wise, little smile to herself, but not a word did
she vouchsafe in reply.

Again Rance called to her over his shoulder:

"I say, Girl!"

The Girl took up a glass and began to polish it. At last she deigned to
favour him with "Hm?" which, apparently, he did not hear, for again a
silence fell upon them. Finally, unable to bear the suspense any longer,
the Sheriff threw down his cards on the table, and facing her he said:

"Say, Girl, will you marry me?"

"Nope," returned the Girl with a saucy toss of the head.

Rance rose and strode over to the bar. Looking fixedly at her with his
steely grey eyes he demanded the reason.

"'Cause you got a wife in Noo Orleans--or so the mountain breezes say,"
was her ready answer.

Rance gave no sign of having heard her. Throwing away the cigar he was
smoking he asked in the most nonchalant manner:

"Give me some of them cigars--my kind."

Reaching for a box behind her the Girl placed it before him.

"Them's your kind, Jack."

From an inside pocket of his broadcloth coat Rance took out an elaborate
cigar-case, filled it slowly, leaving out one cigar which he placed
between his lips. When he had this one going satisfactorily he rested
both elbows on the edge of the bar, and said bluntly:

"I'm stuck on you."

The Girl's lips parted a little mockingly.

"Thank you."

Rance puffed away for a moment or two in silence, and then with sudden
determination he went on:

"I'm going to marry you."

"Think so?" questioned the Girl, drawing herself up proudly. And while
Rance proceeded to relight his cigar, it having gone out, she plumped
both elbows on the bar and looked him straight in the eye, and
announced: "They ain't a man here goin' to marry me."

The scene had precisely the appearance of a struggle between two
powerful wills. How long they would have remained with elbows almost
touching and looking into each other's eyes it is difficult to
determine; but an interruption came in the person of the barkeeper,
who darted in, calling: "One good cigar!"

Instantly the Girl reached behind her for the box containing the
choicest cigars, and handing one to Nick, she said:

"Here's your poison--three bits. Why look at 'em," she went on in
the next breath to Rance; "there's Handsome with two wives I know of
somewhere East. And--" She broke off short and ended with: "Nick, who's
that cigar for?"

"Tommy," he told her.

"Here, give that back!" she cried quickly putting out her hand for it.
"Tommy don't know a good cigar when he's smokin' it." And so saying she
put the choice cigar back in its place among its fellows and handed him
one from another box with the remark: "Same price, Nick."

Nick chuckled and went out.

"An' look at Trin with a widow in Sacramento. An' you--" The Girl broke
off short and laughed in his face. "Oh, not one o' you travellin' under
your own name!"

"One whisky!" ordered Nick, coming into the room with a rush. Without
a word the Girl took down a bottle and poured it out for him while he
stood quietly looking on, grinning from ear to ear. For Rance's weakness
was known to him as it was to every other man in Manzaneta County, and
he believed that the Sheriff had taken advantage of his absence to press
his hopeless suit.

"Here you be!" sang out the Girl, and passed the glass over to him.

THE GARDEN To J. Evelyn, Esquire.

I never had any other desire so strong, and so like to covetousness,
as that one which I have had always, that I might be master at last of
a small house and large garden, with very moderate conveniences
joined to them, and there dedicate the remainder of my life only
to the culture of them and the study of nature.

And there (with no design beyond my wall) whole and entire to lie,
In no unactive ease, and no unglorious poverty.

Or, as Virgil has said, shorter and better for me, that I might
there studiis florere ignobilis otii, though I could wish that he
had rather said Nobilis otii when he spoke of his own.

But several accidents of my ill fortune have disappointed me hitherto,
and do still, of that felicity; for though I have made the first and
hardest step to it, by abandoning all ambitions and hopes in this world,
and by retiring from the noise of all business and almost company, yet
I stick still in the inn of a hired house and garden, among weeds and
rubbish, and without that pleasantest work of human industry--the
improvement of something which we call (not very properly, but yet we
call) our own. I am gone out from Sodom, but I am not arrived at my
little Zoar. "Oh, let me escape thither (is it not a little one!)

, and my soul shall live." I do not look back yet; but I have been forced
to stop and make too many halts.

You may wonder, sir (for this seems a little too extravagant and Pindarical
for prose) what I mean by all this preface. It is to let you know, that
though I have missed, like a chemist, my great end, yet I account my
afflictions and endeavours well rewarded by something that I have met
with by-the-by, which is, that they have produced to me some part
in your kindness and esteem; and thereby the honour of having my
name so advantageously recommended to posterity by the epistle you
are pleased to prefix to the most useful book that has been written
in that kind, and which is to last as long as months and years.

Among many other arts and excellencies which you enjoy, I am glad to
find this favourite of mine the most predominant, that you choose
this for your wife, though you have hundreds of other arts for
your concubines; though you know them, and beget sons upon them all
(to which you are rich enough to allow great legacies), yet the
issue of this seems to be designed by you to the main of the estate;
you have taken most pleasure in it, and bestowed most charges upon
its education, and I doubt not to see that book which you are pleased
to promise to the world, and of which you have given us a large
earnest in your calendar, as accomplished as anything can be expected
from an extraordinary wit and no ordinary expenses and a long
experience.

I know nobody that possesses more private happiness than you do in
your garden, and yet no man who makes his happiness more public by
a free communication of the art and knowledge of it to others.

All that I myself am able yet to do is only to recommend to mankind
the search of that felicity which you instruct them how to find and
to enjoy.

I.

Happy art thou whom God does bless With the full choice of thine
own happiness; And happier yet, because thou'rt blessed With prudence
how to choose the best.

In books and gardens thou hast placed aright, - Things which thou
well dost understand, And both dost make with thy laborious hand -
Thy noble, innocent delight, And in thy virtuous wife, where thou
again dost meet Both pleasures more refined and sweet:
The fairest garden in her looks, And in her mind the wisest books.

Oh! who would change these soft, yet solid joys, For empty shows and
senseless noise, And all which rank ambition breeds, Which seem such
beauteous flowers, and are such poisonous weeds!

II.

When God did man to his own likeness make, As much as clay, though
of the purest kind By the Great Potter's art refined, Could the
Divine impression take, He thought it fit to place him where A kind
of heaven, too, did appear, As far as earth could such a likeness
bear.

That Man no happiness might want, Which earth to her first master
could afford, He did a garden for him plant By the quick hand of
his omnipotent word, As the chief help and joy of human life, He
gave him the first gift; first, even, before a wife.

III.

For God, the universal architect, 'T had been as easy to erect A Louvre,
or Escurial, or a tower That might with heaven communication hold,
As Babel vainly thought to do of old.

He wanted not the skill or power, In the world's fabric those were
shown, And the materials were all his own.
But well he knew what place would best agree With innocence and
with felicity; And we elsewhere still seek for them in vain.

If any part of either yet remain, If any part of either we expect, This
may our judgment in the search direct; God the first garden made, and
the first city, Cain.

IV.

Oh, blessed shades! Oh, gentle, cool retreat From all the immoderate
heat, In which the frantic world does burn and sweat!

This does the lion-star, Ambition's rage; This Avarice, the dog-star's
thirst assuage; Everywhere else their fatal power we see, They make and
rule man's wretched destiny; They neither set nor disappear, But
tyrannise o'er all the year; Whilst we ne'er feel their flame or influence
here.
The birds that dance from bough to bough, And sing above in every tree,
Are not from fears and cares more free, Than we who lie, or sit, or walk
below, And should by right be singers too.
What prince's choir of music can excel That which within this shade
does dwell, To which we nothing pay or give - They, like all other
poets, live Without reward or thanks for their obliging pains.

'Tis well if they become not prey.

The whistling winds add their less artful strains, And a grave base
the murmuring fountains play.

Nature does all this harmony bestow; But to our plants, art's music
too, The pipe, theorbo, and guitar we owe; The lute itself, which once
was green and mute, When Orpheus struck the inspired lute, The trees
danced round, and understood By sympathy the voice of wood.

V.

These are the spells that to kind sleep invite, And nothing does
within resistance make; Which yet we moderately take; Who would not
choose to be awake, While he's encompassed round with such delight;
To the ear, the nose, the touch, the taste and sight?

When Venus would her dear Ascanius keep A prisoner in the downy bands
of sleep, She odorous herbs and flowers beneath him spread, As the most
soft and sweetest bed; Not her own lap would more have charmed his
head.
Who that has reason and his smell Would not among roses and jasmine
dwell, Rather than all his spirits choke, With exhalations of dirt
and smoke, And all the uncleanness which does drown In pestilential
clouds a populous town?

The earth itself breathes better perfumes here, Than all the female
men or women there, Not without cause, about them bear.

VI.

When Epicurus to the world had taught That pleasure was the chiefest
good, (And was perhaps i' th' right, if rightly understood) His
life he to his doctrine brought, And in a garden's shade that
sovereign pleasure sought.

Whoever a true epicure would be, May there find cheap and virtuous
luxury.

Vitellius his table, which did hold As many creatures as the Ark
of old, That fiscal table, to which every day All countries did a
constant tribute pay, Could nothing more delicious afford Than
Nature's liberality, Helped with a little art and industry, Allows
the meanest gardener's board.

The wanton taste no fish or fowl can choose For which the grape or
melon she would lose, Though all the inhabitants of sea and air Be
listed in the glutton's bill of fare; Yet still the fruits of earth
we see Placed the third storey high in all her luxury.

VII.

But with no sense the garden does comply, None courts or flatters, as it
does the eye; When the great Hebrew king did almost strain The wondrous
treasures of his wealth and brain His royal southern guest to entertain,
Though, she on silver floors did tread, With bright Assyrian carpets on
them spread To hide the metal's poverty; Though she looked up to roofs
of gold, And nought around her could behold But silk and rich embroidery,
And Babylonian tapestry, And wealthy Hiram's princely dye:
Though Ophir's starry stones met everywhere her eye; Though she herself
and her gay host were dressed With all the shining glories of the East;
When lavish art her costly work had done; The honour and the prize
of bravery Was by the Garden from the Palace won; And every rose
and lily there did stand Better attired by Nature's hand:
The case thus judged against the king we see, By one that would not
be so rich, though wiser far than he.

VIII.

Nor does this happy place only dispense Such various pleasures to
the sense:
Here health itself does live, That salt of life, which does to all
a relish give, Its standing pleasure, and intrinsic wealth, The
body's virtue, and the soul's good fortune, health.

The tree life, when it in Eden stood, Did its immortal head to
heaven rear; It lasted a tall cedar till the flood; Now a small
thorny shrub it does appear; Nor will it thrive too everywhere:
It always here is freshest seen, 'Tis only here an evergreen.

If through the strong and beauteous fence Of temperance and innocence,
And wholesome labours and a quiet mind, Any diseases passage find,
They must not think here to assail A land unarmed, or without a
guard; They must fight for it, and dispute it hard, Before they can
prevail.

Scarce any plant is growing here Which against death some weapon does
not bear, Let cities boast that they provide For life the ornaments
of pride; But 'tis the country and the field That furnish it with
staff and shield.

IX.

Where does the wisdom and the power divine In a more bright and
sweet reflection shine?

Where do we finer strokes and colours see Of the Creator's real
poetry, Than when we with attention look Upon the third day's volume
of the book?

If we could open and intend our eye, We all like Moses should espy
Even in a bush the radiant Deity.

But we despise these his inferior ways Though no less full of miracle
and praise; Upon the flowers of heaven we gaze, The stars of earth
no wonder in us raise, Though these perhaps do more than they The
life of mankind sway.

Although no part of mighty Nature be More stored with beauty, power,
and mystery, Yet to encourage human industry, God has so ordered
that no other part Such space and such dominion leaves for art.

X.

We nowhere art do so triumphant see, As when it grafts or buds the tree;
In other things we count it to excel, If it a docile scholar can
appear To Nature, and but imitate her well:
It over-rules, and is her master here.

It imitates her Maker's power divine, And changes her sometimes, and
sometimes does refine:
It does, like grace, the fallen-tree restore To its blest state of
Paradise before:
Who would not joy to see his conquering hand O'er all the vegetable
world command, And the wild giants of the wood receive What laws
he's pleased to give?

He bids the ill-natured crab produce The gentler apple's winy juice, The
golden fruit that worthy is, Of Galatea's purple kiss; He does the savage
hawthorn teach To bear the medlar and the pear; He bids the rustic plum
to rear A noble trunk, and be a peach.

Even Daphne's coyness he does mock, And weds the cherry to her
stock, Though she refused Apollo's suit, Even she, that chaste and
virgin tree, Now wonders at herself to see That she's a mother made,
and blushes in her fruit.

XI.

Methinks I see great Diocletian walk In the Salonian garden's noble
shade, Which by his own imperial hands was made:
I see him smile, methinks, as he does talk With the ambassadors,
who come in vain, To entice him to a throne again.

"If I, my friends," said he, "should to you show All the delights which
in these gardens grow; 'Tis likelier much that you should with me stay,
Than 'tis that you should carry me away; And trust me not, my friends,
if every day I walk not here with more delight, Than ever, after the
most happy fight, In triumph to the Capitol I rode, To thank the gods,
and to be thought myself almost a god.

OF GREATNESS.

Since we cannot attain to greatness, says the Sieur de Montaigne,
let us have our revenge by railing at it; this he spoke but in jest.

I believe he desired it no more than I do, and had less reason, for
he enjoyed so plentiful and honourable a fortune in a most excellent
country, as allowed him all the real conveniences of it, separated and
purged from the incommodities. If I were but in his condition, I should
think it hard measure, without being convinced of any crime, to be
sequestered from it and made one of the principal officers of state.
But the reader may think that what I now say is of small authority, because
I never was, nor ever shall be, put to the trial; I can therefore only
make my protestation.

If ever I more riches did desire Than cleanliness and quiet do require;
If e'er ambition did my fancy cheat, With any wish so mean as to be
great, Continue, Heaven, still from me to remove The humble
blessings of that life I love.

I know very many men will despise, and some pity me, for this humour,
as a poor-spirited fellow; but I am content, and, like Horace,
thank God for being so. Dii bene fecerunt inopis me, quodque pusilli
finxerunt animi. I confess I love littleness almost in all things. A
little convenient estate, a little cheerful house, a little company,
and a very little feast; and if I were ever to fall in love again
(which is a great passion, and therefore I hope I have done with it)
it would be, I think, with prettiness rather than with majestical
beauty. I would neither wish that my mistress, nor my fortune, should
be a bona roba, nor, as Homer used to describe his beauties, like a
daughter of great Jupiter, for the stateliness and largeness of her
person, but, as Lucretius says, "Parvula, pumilio, [Greek text which
cannot be reproduced], tota merum sal."
Where there is one man of this, I believe there are a thousand of
Senecio's mind, whose ridiculous affectation of grandeur Seneca the elder
describes to this effect. Senecio was a man of a turbid and confused
wit, who could not endure to speak any but mighty words and
sentences, till this humour grew at last into so notorious a habit,
or rather disease, as became the sport of the whole town: he would
have no servants but huge massy fellows, no plate or household stuff
but thrice as big as the fashion; you may believe me, for I speak
it without raillery, his extravagancy came at last into such a
madness that he would not put on a pair of shoes each of which was
not big enough for both his feet; he would eat nothing but what was
great, nor touch any fruit but horse-plums and pound-pears.

He kept a concubine that was a very giantess, and made her walk,
too, always in a chiopins, till at last he got the surname of Senecio
Grandio, which, Messala said, was not his cognomen, but his
cognomentum.

When he declaimed for the three hundred Lacedaemonians, who also opposed
Xerxes' army of above three hundred thousand, he stretched out his
arms and stood on tiptoes, that he might appear the taller, and
cried out in a very loud voice, "I rejoice, I rejoice!"

We wondered, I remember, what new great fortune had befallen his eminence.
"Xerxes," says he, "is all mine own. He who took away the sight of the
sea with the canvas veils of so many ships . . . " and then he goes on
so, as I know not what to make of the rest, whether it be the fault
of the edition, or the orator's own burly way of nonsense.

This is the character that Seneca gives of this hyperbolical fop,
whom we stand amazed at, and yet there are very few men who are
not, in some things, and to some degree, grandios.

Is anything more common than to see our ladies of quality wear such
high shoes as they cannot walk in without one to lead them?

and a gown as long again as their body, so that they cannot stir to the
next room without a page or two to hold it up?

I may safely say that all the ostentation of our grandees is just like
a train, of no use in the world, but horribly cumbersome and
incommodious.

What is all this but spice of grandio?

How tedious would this be if we were always bound to it? I do believe
there is no king who would not rather be deposed than endure every
day of his reign all the ceremonies of his coronation.

The mightiest princes are glad to fly often from these majestic
pleasures (which is, methinks, no small disparagement to them), as
it were for refuge, to the most contemptible divertisements and
meanest recreations of the vulgar, nay, even of children.

One of the most powerful and fortunate princes of the world of late,
could find out no delight so satisfactory as the keeping of little
singing birds, and hearing of them and whistling to them.

What did the emperors of the whole world?

If ever any men had the free and full enjoyment of all human greatness
(nay, that would not suffice, for they would be gods too) they
certainly possessed it; and yet one of them, who styled himself
"Lord and God of the Earth," could not tell how to pass his whole
day pleasantly, without spending constant two or three hours in
catching of flies, and killing them with a bodkin, as if his godship
had been Beelzebub.

One of his predecessors, Nero (who never put any bounds, nor met
with any stop to his appetite), could divert himself with no pastime
more agreeable than to run about the streets all night in a disguise,
and abuse the women and affront the men whom he met, and sometimes
to beat them, and sometimes to be beaten by them.

This was one of his imperial nocturnal pleasures; his chiefest in the
day was to sing and play upon a fiddle, in the habit of a minstrel,
upon the public stage; he was prouder of the garlands that were
given to his divine voice (as they called it then) in those kind
of prizes, than all his forefathers were of their triumphs over
nations.

He did not at his death complain that so mighty an emperor, and the
last of all the Caesarian race of deities, should be brought to so
shameful and miserable an end, but only cried out, "Alas! what pity it
is that so excellent a musician should perish in this manner!" His
uncle Claudius spent half his time at playing at dice; that was the main
fruit of his sovereignty. I omit the madnesses of Caligula's delights,
and the execrable sordidness of those of Tiberius. Would one think that
Augustus himself, the highest and most fortunate of mankind, a person
endowed too with many excellent parts of nature, should be so hard put
to it sometimes for want of recreations, as to be found playing
at nuts and bounding-stones with little Syrian and Moorish boys, whose
company he took delight in, for their prating and their wantonness?

Was it for this, that Rome's best blood he spilt, With so much
falsehood, so much guilt?

"Wait a minute!" she cried, holding up her hand authoritatively. "I know
the gent!"

The men exchanged incredulous glances; from all sides came the explosive
cries:

"What's that? You know him?"

"Yes," she affirmed dramatically; and turning now to Rance with a swift
change of manner, she confessed: "I didn't tell you--but I know 'im."

The Sheriff started as if struck.

"The Sacramento shrimp by all that is holy!" he muttered between his
teeth as the truth slowly dawned upon him.

"Yes, boys, this is Mr. Johnson o' Sacramento," announced the Girl with
a simple and unconscious dignity that did not fail to impress all
present. "I vouch to Cloudy for Mr. Johnson!"

Consternation!

And then the situation vaguely dawning upon them there ensued an
outburst of cheering compared to which the previous howl of execration
was silence.

Johnson smiled pleasantly at the Girl in acknowledgment of her
confirmation of him, then shot a half-curious, half-amused look at the
crowd surrounding him and regarding him with a new interest. Apparently
what he saw was to his liking, for his manner was most friendly when
bowing politely, he said:

"How are you, boys?"

At once the miners returned his salutation in true western fashion:
every man in the place, save Rance, taking off his hat and sweeping it
before him in an arc as they cried out in chorus:

"Hello, Johnson!"

"Boys, Rance ain't a-runnin' The Polka yet!" observed Sonora with a
mocking smile on his lips, and gloating over the opportunity to give the
Sheriff a dig.

The men shouted their approval of this jibe. Indeed, they might have
gone just a little too far with their badgering of the Sheriff,
considering the mood that he was in; so, perhaps, it was fortunate that
Nick should break in upon them at this time with:

"Gents, the boys from The Ridge invites you to dance with them."

No great amount of enthusiasm was evinced at this. Nevertheless, it was
a distinct declaration of peace; and, taking advantage of it, Johnson
advanced toward the Girl, bowed low, and asked with elaborate formality:

"May I have the honour of a waltz?"

Flabbergasted and awed to silence by what they termed Johnson's "style,"
Happy and Handsome stood staring helplessly at one another; at length
Happy broke out with:

"Say, Handsome, ain't he got a purty action? An' ornamental sort o'
cuss, ain't he? But say, kind o' presumin' like, ain't it, for a fellow
breathin' the obscurity o' The Crossin' to learn gents like us how to
ketch the ladies pronto?"

"Which same," allowed Handsome, "shorely's a most painful, not to say
humiliatin' state o' things." And then to the Girl he whispered: "It's
up to you--make a holy show of 'im."

The Girl laughed.

"Me waltz? Me?" she cried, answering Johnson at last. "Oh, I can't waltz
but I can polky."

Once more Johnson bent his tall figure to the ground, and said:

"Then may I have the pleasure of the next polka?"

By this time Sonora had recovered from his astonishment. After giving
vent to a grunt expressive of his contempt, he blurted out:

"That fellow's too flip!"

But the idea had taken hold of the Girl, though she temporised shyly:

"Oh, I dunno! Makes me feel kind o' foolish, you know, kind o' retirin'
like a elk in summer."

Johnson smiled in spite of himself.

"Elks are retiring," was his comment as he again advanced and offered
his arm in an impressive and ceremonious manner.

"Well, I don't like everybody's hand on the back o' my waist," said the
Girl, running her hands up and down her dress skirt. "But, somehow--"
She stopped, and fixing her eyes recklessly on Rance, made a movement as
if about to accept; but another look at Johnson's proffered arm so
embarrassed her that she sent a look of appeal to the rough fellows, who
stood watching her with grinning faces.

"Oh, Lord, must I?" she asked; then, hanging back no longer, she
suddenly flung herself into his arms with the cry: "Oh, come along!"

Promptly Johnson put his arm around the Girl's waist, and breaking into
a polka he swung her off to the dance-hall where their appearance was
greeted with a succession of wild whoops from the men there, as well as
from the hilarious boys, who had rushed pell-mell after them.

Left to himself and in a rage Rance began to pace the floor.

"Cleaned out--cleaned out for fair by a high-toned, fine-haired dog
named Johnson! Well, I'll be--" The sentence was never finished, his
attention being caught and held by something which Nick was carrying in
from the dance-hall.

"What's that?" he demanded brusquely.

Nick's eyes were twinkling when he answered:

"Johnson's saddle."

Rance could control himself no longer; with a sweep of his long arm he
knocked the saddle out of the other's hand, saying:

"Nick, I've a great notion to walk out of this door and never step my
foot in here again."

Nick did not answer at once. While he did not especially care for Rance
he did not propose to let his patronage, which was not inconsiderable,
go elsewhere without making an effort to hold it. Therefore, he thought
a moment before picking up the saddle and placing it in the corner of
the room.

"Aw, what you givin' us, Rance! She's only a-kiddin' 'im," at last he
said consolingly.

The Sheriff was about to question this when a loud cry from outside
arrested him.

"What's that?" he asked with his eyes upon the door.

"Why that's--that's Ashby's voice," the barkeeper informed him; and
going to the door, followed by Rance, as well as the men who, on hearing
the cry, had rushed in from the dance-hall, he opened it, and they heard
again the voice that they all recognised now as that of the Wells Fargo
Agent.

"Come on!" he was saying gruffly.

"What the deuce is up?" inquired Trinidad simultaneously with the
Deputy's cry of "Bring him in!" And almost instantly the Deputy,
followed by Ashby and others, entered, dragging along with him the
unfortunate Jose Castro. The rough handling that he had received had not
improved his appearance. His clothing, half Mexican, the rest of odds
and ends, had been torn in several places. He looked oily, greasy and
unwashed, while the eyes that looked around in affright had lost none of
their habitual trickiness and sullenness.

And precisely as Castro appeared wholly different than when last seen in
the company of his master, so, too, was Ashby metamorphosed. His hat was
on the back of his head; his coat looked as if he had been engaged in
some kind of a struggle; his hair was ruffled and long locks straggled
down over his forehead; while his face wore a brutal, savage, pitiless,
nasty look.

By this time all the regular habitués of the saloon had come in and were
crowding around the greaser with scowling, angry faces.

"The greaser on the trail!" gurgled Ashby in his glass, having left his
prisoner for a moment to fortify himself with a drink of whisky.

Whereupon, the Sheriff advanced and, with rough hands, jerked the
prisoner's head brutally.

"Here you," he said, "give us a look at your face."

But the Sheriff had never seen him before. And in obedience to his
commands to "Tie him up!" the Deputy and Billy Jackrabbit took a lariat
from the wall and proceeded to bind their prisoner fast. When this was
done Ashby called to Nick to serve him another drink, adding:

"Come on, boys!"

Instantly there was an exclamatory lining up at the bar, only Sonora,
apparently, seeming disinclined to accept, which Ashby was quick to
note. Turning to him quickly, he inquired:

"Say, my friend, don't you drink?"

But no insult had been intended by Sonora's omission; it was merely most
inconsiderate on his part of the feelings of others; and, therefore,
there was a note of apology in the voice that presently said:

"Oh, yes, Mr. Ashby, I'm with you all right."

During this conversation the eyes of the greaser had been wandering all
over the room. But as the men moved away from him to take their drinks
he started violently and an expression of dismay crossed his features.
"Ramerrez' saddle!" he muttered to himself. "_The Maestro_--he is
taken!"

Just then there came a particularly loud burst of approval from the
spectators of the dancing going on in the adjoining room, and
instinctively the men at the bar half-turned towards the noise. The
prisoner's eyes followed their gaze and a fiendish grin replaced the
look of dismay on his face. "No, he is there dancing with a girl," he
said under his breath. A moment later Nick let down the bearskin
curtain, shutting off completely the Mexican's view of the dance-hall.

"Come, now, tell us what your name is?" The voice was Ashby's who,
together with the others, now surrounded the prisoner. "Speak up--who
are you?"

"My name ees Jose Castro;" and then he added with a show of pride:
"_Ex-padrona_ of the bull-fights."

"But the bull-fights are at Monterey! Why do you come to this place?"

All eyes instantly turned from the prisoner to Rance, who had asked the
question while seated at the table, and from him they returned to the
prisoner, most of the men giving vent to exclamations of anger in tones
that made the greaser squirm, while Trinidad expressed the prevailing
admiration of the Sheriff's poser by crying out:

"That's the talk--you bet! Why do you come here?"

Castro's face wore an air of candour as he replied:

"To tell the Señor Sheriff I know where ees Ramerrez."

Rance turned on the prisoner a grim look.

"You lie!" he vociferated, at the same time raising his hand to check
the angry mutterings of the men that boded ill for the greaser.

"Nay," denied Castro, strenuously, "pleanty Mexican _vaquero_--my friend
Peralta, Weelejos all weeth Ramerrez--so I know where ees."

Rance advanced and shot a finger in his face.

"You're one of his men yourself!" he cried hotly. But if he had hoped by
his accusation to take the man off his guard, it was eminently
unsuccessful, for the look on the greaser's face was innocence itself
when he declared:

"No, no, Señor Sheriff."

Rance reflected a moment; suddenly, then, he took another tack.

"You see that man there?" he queried, pointing to the Wells Fargo Agent.
"That is Ashby. He is the man that pays out that reward you've heard
of." Then after a pause to let his words sink in, he demanded gruffly:
"Where is Ramerrez' camp?"

At once the prisoner became voluble.

"Come with me one mile, Señor," he said, "and by the soul of my mother,
the blessed Maria Saltaja, we weel put a knife into hees back."

"One mile, eh?" repeated Rance, coolly.

The miners looked incredulous.

"If I tho't--" began Sonora, but Rance rudely cut in with:

"Where is this trail?"

"Up the Madrona Canyada," was the greaser's instant reply.

At this juncture a Ridge boy, who had pushed aside the bear-skin curtain
and was gazing with mouth wide open at the proceedings, suddenly cried
out:

"Why, hello, boys! What's the--" He got no further. In a twinkling and
with cries of "Shut up! Git!" the men made for the intruder and bodily
threw him out of the room. When quiet was restored Rance motioned to the
prisoner to proceed.

"Ramerrez can be taken--too well taken," declared the Mexican, gaining
confidence as he went on, "if many men come with me--in forty minutes
there--back."

Rance turned to Ashby and asked him what he thought about it.

"I don't know what to think," was the Wells Fargo Agent's reply. "But it
certainly is curious. This is the second warning--intimation that we
have had that he is somewhere in this vicinity."

"And this Nina Micheltoreña--you say she is coming here to-night?"

Ashby nodded assent.

"All the same, Rance," he maintained, "I wouldn't go. Better drop in to
The Palmetto later."

"What? Risk losin' 'im?" exclaimed Sonora, who had been listening
intently to their conversation.

"We'll take the chance, boys, in spite of Ashby's advice," Rance said
decisively. It was with not a little surprise that he heard the shouts
with which his words were approved by all save the Wells Fargo Agent.

Now the miners made a rush for their coats, hats and saddles, while from
all sides came the cries of, "Come on, boys! Careful--there!
Ready--Sheriff!"

Gladly, cheerfully, Nick, too, did what he could to get the men started
by setting up the drinks for all hands, though he remarked as he did so:

"It's goin' to snow, boys; I don't like the sniff in the air."

But even the probability of encountering a storm--which in that altitude
was something decidedly to be reckoned with--did not deter the men from
proceeding to make ready for the road agent's capture. In an incredibly
short space of time they had loaded up and got their horses together,
and from the harmony in their ranks while carrying out orders, it was
evident that not a man there doubted the success of their undertaking.

"We'll git this road agent!" sung out Trinidad, going out through the
door.

"Right you are, pard!" agreed Sonora; but at the door he called back to
the greaser: "Come on, you oily, garlic-eatin', red-peppery,
dog-trottin', sunbaked son of a skunk!"

"Come on, you . . .!" came simultaneously from the Deputy, now untying
the rope which bound the prisoner.

The greaser's teeth were chattering; he begged:

"One dreenk--I freeze . . ."

Turning to Nick the Deputy told him to give the man a drink, adding as
he left the room:

"Watch him--keep your eye on him a moment for me, will you?"

Nick nodded; and then regarding the Mexican with a contemptuous look, he
asked:

"What'll you have?"

The Mexican rose to his feet and began hesitatingly:

"Geeve me--" He paused; and then, starting with the thought that had
come to him, he shot a glance at the dance-hall and called out loudly,
rolling his r's even more pronouncedly than is the custom with his race:
"Aguardiente! Aguardiente!"

"Sit down!" ordered Nick, vaguely conscious that there was something in
the greaser's voice that was not there before.

The greaser obeyed, but not until he knew for a certainty that his voice
had been heard by his master.

"So you did bring in my saddle, eh, Nick?" asked the road agent, coming
quickly, but unconcernedly into the room and standing behind his man.

Up to this time, Nick's eyes had not left the prisoner, but with the
appearance on the scene of Johnson, he felt that his responsibility
ceased in a measure. He turned and gave his attention to matters
pertaining to the bar. As a consequence, he did not see the look of
recognition that passed between the two men, nor did he hear the
whispered dialogue in Spanish that followed.

"_Maestro! Ramerrez!_" came in whispered tones from Castro.

"Speak quickly--go on," came likewise in whispered tones from the road
agent.

"I let them take me according to your bidding," went on Castro.

"Careful, Jose, careful," warned his master while stooping to pick up
his saddle, which he afterwards laid on the faro table. It was while he
was thus engaged that Nick came over to the prisoner with a glass of
liquor, which he handed to him gruffly with:

"Here!"

At that moment several voices from the dance-hail called somewhat
impatiently: "Nick, Nick!"

"Oh, The Ridge boys are goin'!" he said, and seeming intuitively to know
what was wanted he made for the bar. But before acceding to their
wishes, he turned to Johnson, took out his gun and offered it to him
with the words: "Say, watch this greaser for a moment, will you?"

"Certainly," responded Johnson, quickly, declining the other's pistol by
touching his own holster significantly. "Tell the Girl you pressed me
into service," he concluded with a smile.

"Sure." But on the point of going, the little barkeeper turned to him
and confided: "Say, the Girl's taken an awful fancy to you."

"No?" deprecated the road agent.

"Yes," affirmed Nick. "Drop in often--great bar!"

Johnson smiled an assent as the other went out of the room leaving
master and man together.

"Now, then, Jose, go on," he said, when they were alone.
"_Bueno!_ Our men await the signal in the bushes close by. I will lead
the Sheriff far off--then I will slip away. You quietly rob the place
and fly--it is death for you to linger--Ashby is here."

"Ashby!" The road agent started in alarm.

"Ashby--" reiterated Castro and stopped on seeing that Nick had returned
to see that all was well.

"All right, Nick, everything's all right," Johnson reassured him.

The outlaw's position remained unchanged until Nick had withdrawn. From
where he stood he now saw for the first time the preparations that were
being made for his capture: the red torchlights and white candle-lighted
lanterns which were reflected through the windows; and a moment more he
heard the shouts of the miners calling to one another. Of a sudden he
was aroused to a consciousness, at least, of their danger by Castro's
warning:

"By to-morrow's twilight you must be safe in your rancho."

The road agent shook his head determinedly.

"No, we raid on."

Castro was visibly excited.

"There are a hundred men on your track."

Johnson smiled.

"Oh, one minute's start of the devil does me, Jose."

"Ah, but I fear the woman--Nina Micheltoreña--I fear her terribly. She
is close at hand--knowing all, angry with you, and jealous--and still
loving you."

"Loving me? Oh, no, Jose! Nina, like you, loves the spoils, not me. No,
I raid on . . ."

A silence fell upon the two men, which was broken by Sonora calling out:

"Bring along the greaser, Dep!"

"All right!" answered the loud voice of the Deputy.

"You hear--we start," whispered Castro to his master. "Give the signal."
And notwithstanding, the miners were coming through the door for him and
stood waiting, torches in hand, he contrived to finish: "Antonio awaits
for it. Only the woman and her servant will stay behind here."

"Adios!" whispered the master.

"Adios!" returned his man simultaneously with the approach of the Deputy
towards them.

It was then that the Girl's gay, happy voice floated in on them from the
dance-hall; she cried out:

"Good-night, boys, good-night! Remember me to The Ridge!"

"You bet we will! So long! Whoop! Whooppee!" chorussed the men, while
the Deputy, grabbing the Mexican by the collar, ordered him to, "Come
on!"

The situation was not without its humorous side to the road agent; he
could not resist following the crowd to the door where he stood and
watched his would-be captors silently mount; listened to the Sheriff
give the word, which was immediately followed by the sound of horses
grunting as they sprang forward into the darkness in a desperate effort
to escape the maddening pain of the descending quirts and cruel spurs.
It was a scene to set the blood racing through the veins, viewed in any
light; and not until the yells of the men had grown indistinct, and all
that could be heard was the ever-decreasing sound of rushing hoofs, did
the outlaw turn back into the saloon over which there hung a silence
which, by contrast, he found strangely depressing.


VIII.


There was a subtle change, an obvious lack of warmth in Johnson's
manner, which the Girl was quick to feel upon returning to the now
practically deserted saloon.

"Don't it feel funny here--kind o' creepy?" She gave the words a
peculiar emphasis, which made Johnson flash a quick, inquisitorial look
at her; and then, no comment being forthcoming, she went on to explain:
"I s'pose though that's 'cause I don't remember seein' the bar so empty
before."

A somewhat awkward silence followed, which at length was broken by the
Girl, who ordered:

"Lights out now! Put out the candle here, too, Nick!" But while the
little barkeeper proceeded to carry out her instructions she turned to
Johnson with an eager, frank expression on her face, and said: "Oh, you
ain't goin', are you?"

"No--not yet--no--" stammered Johnson, half-surprisedly,
half-wonderingly.

The Girl's face wore a pleased look as she answered:

"Oh, I'm so glad o' that!"

Another embarrassing silence followed. At last Nick made a movement
towards the window, saying:

"I'm goin' to put the shutters up."

"So early? What?" The Girl looked her surprise.

"Well, you see, the boys are out huntin' Ramerrez, and there's too much
money here . . ." said Nick in a low tone.

The Girl laughed lightly.

"Oh, all right--cash in--but don't put the head on the keg--I ain't
cashed in m'self yet."

Rolling the keg to one side of the room, Nick beckoned to the Girl to
come close to him, which she did; and pointing to Johnson, who was
strolling about the room, humming softly to himself, he whispered:

"Say, Girl, know anythin' about--about him?"

But very significant as was Nick's pantomime, which included the keg and
Johnson, it succeeded only in bringing forth a laugh from the Girl, and
the words:

"Oh, sure!"

Nevertheless, the faithful guardian of the Girl's interests sent a
startled glance of inquiry about the room, and again asked:

"All right, eh?"

The Girl ignored the implication contained in the other's glance, and
answered "Yep," in such a tone of finality that Nick, reassured at last,
began to put things ship-shape for the night. This took but a moment or
two, however, and then he quietly disappeared.

"Well, Mr. Johnson, it seems to be us a-keepin' house here to-night,
don't it?" said the Girl, alone now with the road agent.

Her observation might easily have been interpreted as purposely
introductory to an intimate scene, notwithstanding that it was made in a
thoroughly matter-of-fact tone and without the slightest trace of
coquetry. But Johnson did not make the mistake of misconstruing her
words, puzzled though he was to find a clue to them. His curiosity about
her was intense, and it showed plainly in the voice that said presently:

"Isn't it strange how things come about? Strange that I should have
looked everywhere for you and in the end find you here--at The Polka."

Johnson's emphasis on his last words sent a bright red rushing over her,
colouring her neck, her ears and her broad, white forehead.

"Anythin' wrong with The Polka?"

Johnson was conscious of an indiscreet remark; nevertheless he ventured:

"Well, it's hardly the place for a young woman like you."

The Girl made no reply to this but busied herself with the closing-up of
the saloon. Johnson interpreted her silence as a difference of opinion.
Nevertheless, he repeated with emphasis:

"It is decidedly no place for you."

"How so?"

"Well, it's rather unprotected, and--"

"Oh, pshaw!" interrupted the Girl somewhat irritably. "I tol' Ashby only
to-night that I bet if a rud agent come in here I could offer 'im a
drink an' he'd treat me like a perfect lady." She stopped and turned
upon him impulsively with: "Say, that reminds me, won't you take
somethin'?"

Before answering, Johnson shot her a quick look of inquiry to see
whether there was not a hidden meaning in her words. Of course there was
not, the remark being impelled by a sudden consciousness that he might
consider her inhospitable. Nevertheless, her going behind the bar and
picking up a bottle came somewhat as a relief to him.

"No, thank you," at last he said; and then as he leaned heavily on the
bar: "But I would very much like to ask you a question."

Instantly, to his great surprise, the Girl was eyeing him with mingled
reproach and coquetry. So he was going to do it! Was it possible that he
thought so lightly of her, she wondered. With all her heart she wished
that he would not make the same mistake that others had.

"I know what it is--every stranger asks it--but I didn't think you
would. You want to know if I am decent? Well, I am, you bet!" she
returned, a defiant note creeping into her voice as she uttered the
concluding words.

"Oh, Girl, I'm not blind!" Every one brings in his part to inflame the
contagion, which becomes at last so universal and so strong, that
no precepts can be sufficient preservatives, nor anything secure
our safety, but flight from among the infected.

We ought, in the choice of a situation, to regard above all things the
healthfulness of the place, and the healthfulness of it for the mind
rather than for the body. But suppose (which is hardly to be supposed)
we had antidote enough against this poison; nay, suppose, further, we
were always and at all places armed and provided both against the
assaults of hostility and the mines of treachery, it will yet be but
an uncomfortable life to be ever in alarms; though we were compassed
round with fire to defend ourselves from wild beasts, the lodging would
be unpleasant, because we must always be obliged to watch that fire,
and to fear no less the defects of our guard than the diligences of our
enemy. The sum of this is, that a virtuous man is in danger to be trod
upon and destroyed in the crowd of his contraries; nay, which is
worse, to be changed and corrupted by them, and that it is impossible
to escape both these inconveniences without so much caution as will
take away the whole quiet, that is, the happiness of his life.

Ye see, then, what he may lose; but, I pray, what can he get there? Quid
Romae faciam?
Mentiri nescio. What should a man of truth and honesty do at Rome?
he can neither understand, nor speak the language of the place; a
naked man may swim in the sea, but it is not the way to catch fish
there; they are likelier to devour him than he them, if he bring
no nets and use no deceits.

I think, therefore, it was wise and friendly advice which Martial
gave to Fabian when he met him newly arrived at Rome.

Honest and poor, faithful in word and thought; What has thee, Fabian, to
the city brought?

Thou neither the buffoon nor bawd canst play, Nor with false whispers
the innocent betray:
Nor corrupt wives, nor from rich beldams get A living by thy industry and
sweat:
Nor with vain promises and projects cheat, Nor bribe or flatter any
of the great.

But you're a man of learning, prudent, just:

A man of courage, firm, and fit for trust.

Why, you may stay, and live unenvied here; But, 'faith!

go back, and keep you where you were.

Nay, if nothing of all this were in the case, yet the very sight
of uncleanness is loathsome to the cleanly; the sight of folly and
impiety vexatious to the wise and pious.

Lucretius, by his favour, though a good poet, was but an ill-natured
man, when he said, "It was delightful to see other men in a great
storm."

And no less ill-natured should I think Democritus, who laughed at all the
world, but that he retired himself so much out of it that we may perceive
he took no great pleasure in that kind of mirth. I have been drawn twice
or thrice by company to go to Bedlam, and have seen others very much
delighted with the fantastical extravagancy of so many various
madnesses, which upon me wrought so contrary an effect, that I always
returned not only melancholy, but even sick with the sight.

My compassion there was perhaps too tender, for I meet a thousand
madmen abroad, without any perturbation, though, to weigh the
matter justly, the total loss of reason is less deplorable than the
total depravation of it.

An exact judge of human blessings, of riches, honours, beauty, even of
wit itself, should pity the abuse of them more than the want.

Briefly, though a wise man could pass never so securely through the
great roads of human life, yet he will meet perpetually with so many
objects and occasions of compassion, grief, shame, anger, hatred,
indignation, and all passions but envy (for he will find nothing
to deserve that) that he had better strike into some private path;
nay, go so far, if he could, out of the common way, ut nec facta
audiat Pelopidarum; that he might not so much as hear of the actions
of the sons of Adam.

But, whither shall we fly, then? into the deserts, like the ancient
hermits?

Qua terra patet fera regnat Erynnis.

In facinus jurasse putes.

One would think that all mankind had bound themselves by an oath
to do all the wickedness they can; that they had all, as the Scripture
speaks, sold themselves to sin: the difference only is, that some
are a little more crafty (and but a little, God knows) in making
of the bargain.

I thought, when I went first to dwell in the country, that without doubt
I should have met there with the simplicity of the old poetical
golden age: I thought to have found no inhabitants there, but such
as the shepherds of Sir Philip Sidney in Arcadia, or of Monsieur
d'Urfe upon the banks of Lignon; and began to consider with myself,
which way I might recommend no less to posterity the happiness and
innocence of the men of Chertsey: but to confess the truth, I
perceived quickly, by infallible demonstrations, that I was still
in old England, and not in Arcadia, or La Forrest; that if I could
not content myself with anything less than exact fidelity in human
conversation, I had almost as good go back and seek for it in the
Court, or the Exchange, or Westminster Hall.

I ask again, then, whither shall we fly, or what shall we do? The world
may so come in a man's way that he cannot choose but salute it;
he must take heed, though, not to go a whoring after it.

If by any lawful vocation or just necessity men happen to be married
to it, I can only give them St.

Paul's advice: "Brethren, the time is short; it remains that they
that have wives be as though they had none.

But I would that all men were even as I myself."
In all cases they must be sure that they do mundum ducere, and not mundo
nubere. They must retain the superiority and headship over it: happy are
they who can get out of the sight of this deceitful beauty, that they may
not be led so much as into temptation; who have not only quitted
the metropolis, but can abstain from ever seeing the next market
town of their country.

CLAUDIAN'S OLD MAN OF VERONA.

Happy the man who his whole time doth bound Within the enclosure of his
little ground.

Happy the man whom the same humble place (The hereditary cottage
of his race) From his first rising infancy has known, And by degrees
sees gently bending down, With natural propension to that earth
Which both preserved his life, and gave him birth.

Him no false distant lights by fortune set, Could ever into foolish
wanderings get.

He never dangers either saw, or feared, The dreadful storms at sea
he never heard.

He never heard the shrill alarms of war, Or the worse noises of the
lawyers' bar.

No change of consuls marks to him the year, The change of seasons is his
calendar.

The cold and heat winter and summer shows, Autumn by fruits, and
spring by flowers he knows.

He measures time by landmarks, and has found For the whole day the dial
of his ground.

A neighbouring wood born with himself he sees, And loves his old
contemporary trees.

Has only heard of near Verona's name, And knows it, like the Indies,
but by fame.
Does with a like concernment notice take Of the Red Sea, and of
Benacus lake.

Thus health and strength he to a third age enjoys, And sees a long
posterity of boys.
About the spacious world let other roam, The voyage Life is longest made
at home.

THE SHORTNESS OF LIFE AND UNCERTAINTY OF RICHES.

If you should see a man who were to cross from Dover to Calais, run
about very busy and solicitous, and trouble himself many weeks before
in making provisions for the voyage, would you commend him for a
cautious and discreet person, or laugh at him for a timorous and impertinent
coxcomb? A man who is excessive in his pains and diligence, and who
consumes the greatest part of his time in furnishing the remainder
with all conveniences and even superfluities, is to angels and wise men
no less ridiculous; he does as little consider the shortness of
his passage that he might proportion his cares accordingly.

It is, alas, so narrow a strait betwixt the womb and the grave,
that it might be called the Pas de Vie, as well as the Pas de Calais.

We are all [Greek text which cannot be reproduced] as Pindar calls us,
creatures of a day, and therefore our Saviour bounds our desires to
that little space; as if it were very probable that every day should be
our last, we are taught to demand even bread for no longer a time.

The sun ought not to set upon our covetousness; no more than upon
our anger; but as to God Almighty a thousand years are as one day,
so, in direct opposition, one day to the covetous man is as a
thousand years, tam brevi fortis jaculatur aevo multa, so far he
shoots beyond his butt.

One would think he were of the opinion of the Millenaries, and hoped for
so long a reign upon earth.

The patriarchs before the flood, who enjoyed almost such a life,
made, we are sure, less stores for the maintaining of it; they who
lived nine hundred years scarcely provided for a few days; we who
live but a few days, provide at least for nine hundred years.

What a strange alteration is this of human life and manners! and yet we
see an imitation of it in every man's particular experience, for
we begin not the cares of life till it be half spent, and still
increase them as that decreases.

What is there among the actions of beasts so illogical and repugnant to
reason? When they do anything which seems to proceed from that which
we call reason, we disdain to allow them that perfection, and attribute
it only to a natural instinct.

If we could but learn to number our days (as we are taught to
pray that we might) we should adjust much better our other accounts, but
whilst we never consider an end of them, it is no wonder if our
cares for them be without end too.

Horace advises very wisely, and in excellent good words, spatio brevi
spem longam reseces; from a short life cut off all hopes that grow too
long.

They must be pruned away like suckers that choke the mother-plant, and
hinder it from bearing fruit. And in another place to the same sense,
Vitae summa brevis spem nos vetat inchoare longam, which Seneca
does not mend when he says, Oh quanta dementia est spes longas
inchoantium!

but he gives an example there of an acquaintance of his named
Senecio, who from a very mean beginning by great industry in turning
about of money through all ways of gain, had attained to extraordinary
riches, but died on a sudden after having supped merrily, In ipso
actu bene cedentium rerum, in ipso procurrentis fortunae impetu;
in the full course of his good fortune, when she had a high tide
and a stiff gale and all her sails on; upon which occasion he cries,
out of Virgil:

Insere nunc Melibaee pyros, pone ordine vites:
Go to, Melibaeus, now, Go graff thy orchards and thy vineyards
plant; Behold the fruit!

For this Senecio I have no compassion, because he was taken, as we
say, in ipso facto, still labouring in the work of avarice; but the
poor rich man in St.

Luke (whose case was not like this) I could pity, methinks, if the
Scripture would permit me, for he seems to have been satisfied at
last; he confesses he had enough for many years; he bids his soul
take its ease; and yet for all that, God says to him, "Thou fool,
this night thy soul shall be required of thee, and the things thou
hast laid up, whom shall they belong to?"

Where shall we find the causes of this bitter reproach and terrible
judgment; we may find, I think, two, and God perhaps saw more.

First, that he did not intend true rest to the soul, but only to
change the employments of it from avarice to luxury; his design is
to eat and to drink, and to be merry.

Secondly, that he went on too long before he thought of resting;
the fulness of his old barns had not sufficed him, he would stay
till he was forced to build new ones, and God meted out to him in
the same measure; since he would have more riches than his life
could contain, God destroyed his life and gave the fruits of it to
another.

Thus God takes away sometimes the man from his riches, and no less
frequently riches from the man: what hope can there be of such a
marriage where both parties are so fickle and uncertain; by what
bonds can such a couple be kept long together?

I.

Why dost thou heap up wealth, which thou must quit, Or, what is
worse, be left by it?

Why dost thou load thyself, when thou'rt to fly, O man ordained to
die?

II.

Why dost thou build up stately rooms on high, Thou who art underground
to lie?

Thou sow'st and plantest, but no fruit must see; For death, alas?

is sowing thee.

III.

Suppose, thou fortune couldst to tameness bring, And clip or pinion her
wine; Suppose thou couldst on fate so far prevail As not to cut
off thy entail.

IV.

Yet death at all that subtlety will laugh, Death will that foolish
gardener mock Who does a slight and annual plant engraff, Upon a
lasting stock.

V.

Thou dost thyself wise and industrious deem; A mighty husband thou
wouldst seem; Fond man!

like a bought slave, thou, all the while Dost but for others sweat and
toil.

VI.

Officious fool! that needs must meddling be In business that concerns not
thee!
For when to future years thou extend'st thy cares, Thou deal'st in
other men's affairs.

VII.

Even aged men, as if they truly were Children again, for age prepare,
Pro visions for long travail they design In the last point of their
short line.

VIII.

Wisely the ant against poor winter hoards The stock which summer's wealth
affords, In grasshoppers, that must at autumn die, How vain were such
an industry.

IX.

Of power and honour the deceitful light Might half excuse our cheated
sight, If it of life the whole small time would stay, And be our
sunshine all the day.

X.

Like lightning that, begot but in a cloud, Though shining bright, and
speaking loud, Whilst it begins, concludes its violent race, And where
it gilds, it wounds the place.

XI.

Oh, scene of fortune, which dost fair appear Only to men that stand
not near.

Proud poverty, that tinsel bravery wears, And like a rainbow, painted
tears.

XII.

Be prudent, and the shore in prospect keep, In a weak boat trust
not the deep.

Placed beneath envy, above envying rise; Pity great men, great things
despise.

XIII.

The wise example of the heavenly lark.

Thy fellow poet, Cowley, mark, Above the clouds let thy proud music
sound, Thy humble nest build on the ground.

THE DANGER OF PROCRASTINATION.

A letter to Mr. S. L.

I am glad that you approve and applaud my design of withdrawing
myself from all tumult and business of the world and consecrating
the little rest of my time to those studies to which nature had so
motherly inclined me, and from which fortune like a step-mother has
so long detained me.

But nevertheless, you say--which But is aerugo mera, a rust which spoils
the good metal it grows upon. But, you say, you would advise me not
to precipitate that resolution, but to stay a while longer with
patience and complaisance, till I had gotten such an estate as might
afford me, according to the saying of that person whom you and I
love very much, and would believe as soon as another man, cum
dignitate otium.

This were excellent advice to Joshua, who could bid the sun stay too. But
there's no fooling with life when it is once turned beyond forty. The
seeking for a fortune then is but a desperate after game, it is a hundred
to one if a man fling two sixes and recover all; especially if his
hand be no luckier than mine.

There is some help for all the defects of fortune, for if a man cannot
attain to the length of his wishes, he may have his remedy by
cutting of them shorter.

Epicurus writes a letter to Idomeneus, who was then a very powerful,
wealthy, and it seems bountiful person, to recommend to him, who
had made so many men rich, one Pythocles, a friend of his, whom he
desired to be made a rich man too: But I entreat you that you would
not do it just the same way as you have done to many less deserving
persons, but in the most gentlemanly manner of obliging him, which
is not to add anything to his estate, but to take something from
his desires.

The sum of this is, that for the uncertain hopes of some conveniences
we ought not to defer the execution of a work that is necessary,
especially when the use of those things which we would stay for may
otherwise be supplied, but the loss of time never recovered.

Nay, further yet, though we were sure to obtain all that we had a
mind to, though we were sure of getting never so much by continuing
the game, yet when the light of life is so near going out, and ought
to be so precious, Le jeu ne vaut pas la chandelle, the play is not
worth the expense of the candle.

After having been long tossed in a tempest, if our masts be standing,
and we have still sail and tackling enough to carry us to our port,
it is no matter for the want of streamers and topgallants; utere
velis totes pande sinus.

A gentleman in our late civil wars, when his quarters were beaten up by
the enemy, was taken prisoner and lost his life afterwards, only
by staying to put on a band and adjust his periwig.

He would escape like a person of quality, or not at all, and died
the noble martyr of ceremony and gentility.

I think your counsel of festina lente is as ill to a man who is
flying from the world, as it would have been to that unfortunate
well-bred gentleman, who was so cautious as not to fly undecently
from his enemies, and therefore I prefer Horace's advice before yours

.

- Sapere ande; incipe.

Begin: the getting out of doors is the greatest part of the journey.
Varro teaches us that Latin proverb, Portam itineri longissimam esse.
But to return to Horace,

- Sapere aude; Incipe. Virendi qui recte prorogat horam Rusticus
expectat dum labitur amnis; at ille Labitur, et labetur is omne volubilis
aevum.

Begin, be bold, and venture to be wise; He who defers the work from
day to day, Does on a river's bank expecting stay, Till the whole
stream which stopped him should be gone, That runs, and as it runs,
for ever will run on.

Caesar (the man of expedition above all others) was so far from
this folly, that whensoever in a journey he was to cross any river,
he never went one foot out of his way for a bridge, or a ford, or
a ferry; but flung himself into it immediately, and swam over; and
this is the course we ought to imitate if we meet with any stops
in our way to happiness.

Johnson was deeply touched at the Girl's distress, and his voice broke,
too, as he said:

"Yes, what we might have been is a terrible thought, and I know it,
Girl, when I look at you--when I look at you."

"You bet!" ejaculated the Girl. And then to Johnson's consternation she
broke down completely, burying her face in her hands and sobbing out:
"Oh, 'tain't no use, I'm rotten, I'm ignorant, I don't know nothin' an'
I never knowed it 'till to-night! The boys always tol' me I knowed so
much, but they're such damn liars!"

In an instant Johnson was beside her, patting her hand caressingly; she
felt the sympathy in his touch and was quick to respond to it.

"Don't you care, Girl, you're all right," he told her, choking back with
difficulty the tears in his own voice. "Your heart's all right, that's
the main thing. And as for your looks? Well, to me you've got the face
of an angel--the face--" He broke off abruptly and ended with: "Oh, but
I must be going now!"

A moment more and he stood framed in the doorway, his saddle in one hand
and the Girl's lantern in the other, torn by two emotions which grappled
with each other in his bosom. "Johnson, what the devil's the matter with
you?" he muttered half-aloud; then suddenly pulling himself together he
stumbled rather than walked out of The Polka into the night.

Motionless and trying to check her sobs, the Girl remained where he had
left her; but a few minutes later, when Nick entered, all trace of her
tears had disappeared.

"Nick," said she, all smiles now, "run over to The Palmetto restaurant
an' tell 'em to send me up two charlotte rusks an' a lemming turnover--a
good, big, fat one--jest as quick as they can--right up to the cabin for
supper."

"He says I have the face of an angel," is what the Girl repeated over
and over again to herself when perched up again on the poker table after
the wondering barkeeper had departed on her errand, and for a brief
space of time her countenance reflected the joy that Johnson's parting
words had imprinted on her heart. But in the Girl's character there was
an element too prosaic, and too practical, to permit her thoughts to
dwell long in a region lifted far above the earth. It was inevitable,
therefore, that the notion should presently strike her as supremely
comic and, quickly leaping to the floor, she let out the one word which,
however adequately it may have expressed her conflicting emotions, is
never by any chance to be found in the vocabulary of angels in good
standing.


IX.


Notwithstanding that The Palmetto was the most pretentious building in
Cloudy, and was the only rooming and eating house that outwardly
asserted its right to be called an hotel, its saloon contrasted
unfavourably with its rival, The Polka. There was not the individuality
of the Girl there to charm away the impress of coarseness settled upon
it by the loafers, the habitual drunkards and the riffraff of the camp,
who were not tolerated elsewhere. In short, it did not have that certain
indefinable something which gave to The Polka Saloon an almost homelike
appearance, but was a drab, squalid, soulless place with nothing to
recommend it but its size.

In a small parlour pungent at all times with the odour of liquor,--but
used only on rare occasions, most of The Palmetto's patrons preferring
the even more stifling atmosphere of the bar-room,--the Wells Fargo
Agent had been watching and waiting ever since he had left The Polka
Saloon. On a table in front of him was a bottle, for it was a part of
Ashby's scheme of things to solace thus all such weary hours.

Although a shrewd judge of women of the Nina Micheltoreña type and by no
means unmindful of their mercurial temperament, Ashby, nevertheless, had
felt that she would keep her appointment with him. In the Mexican Camp
he had read the wild jealousy in her eyes, and had assumed, not
unnaturally, that there had been scarcely time for anything to occur
which would cause a revulsion of feeling on her part. But as the moments
went by, and still she did not put in an appearance, an expression of
keen disappointment showed itself on his face and, with mechanical
regularity, he carried out the liquid programme, shutting his eyes after
each drink for moments at a time yet, apparently, in perfect control of
his mind when he opened them again; and it was in one of these moments
that he heard a step outside which he correctly surmised to be that of
the Sheriff.

Without a word Rance walked into the room and over to the table and
helped himself to a drink from the bottle there, which action the Wells
Fargo Agent rightly interpreted as meaning that the posse had failed to
catch their quarry. At first a glint of satisfaction shone in Ashby's
eyes: not that he disliked Rance, but rather that he resented his
egotistical manner and evident desire to overawe all who came in contact
with him; and it required, therefore, no little effort on his part to
banish this look from his face and make up his mind not to mention the
subject in any manner.

For some time, therefore, the two officers sat opposite to each other
inhaling the stale odour of tobacco and spirits peculiar to this room,
with little or no ventilation. It was enough to sicken anyone, but both
men, accustomed to such places in the pursuit of their calling,
apparently thought nothing of it, the Sheriff seemingly absorbed in
contemplating the long ash at the end of his cigar, but, in reality,
turning over in his mind whether he should leave the room or not. At
length, he inaugurated a little contest of opinion.

"This woman isn't coming, that's certain," he declared, impatiently.

"I rather think she will; she promised not to fail me," was the other's
quiet answer; and he added: "In ten minutes you'll see her."

It was a rash remark and expressive of a confidence that he by no means
felt. As a matter of fact, it was induced solely by the cynical smile
which he perceived on the Sheriff's face.

"You, evidently, take no account of the fact that the lady may have
changed her mind," observed Rance, lighting a fresh cigar. "The Nina
Micheltoreñas are fully as privileged as others of their sex."

As he drained his glass Ashby gave the speaker a sharp glance; another
side of Rance's character had cropped out. Moreover, Ashby's quick
intuition told him that the other's failure to catch the outlaw was not
troubling him nearly as much as was the blow which his conceit had
probably received at the hands of the Girl. It was, therefore, in an
indulgent tone that he said:

"No, Rance, not this one nor this time. You mark my words, the woman is
through with Ramerrez. At least, she is so jealous that she thinks she
is. She'll turn up here, never fear; she means business."

The shoulders of Mr. Jack Rance strongly suggested a shrug, but the man
himself said nothing. They were anything but sympathetic companions,
these two officers, and in the silence that ensued Rance formulated
mentally more than one disparaging remark about the big man sitting
opposite to him. It is possible, of course, that the Sheriff's rebuff by
the Girl, together with the wild goose chase which he had recently taken
against his better judgment, had something to do with this bitterness;
but it was none the less true that he found himself wondering how Ashby
had succeeded in acquiring his great reputation. Among the things that
he held against him was his everlasting propensity to boast of his
achievements, to say nothing of the pedestal upon which the boys
insisted upon placing him. Was this Wells Fargo's most famous agent? Was
this the man whose warnings were given such credence that they stirred
even the largest of the gold camps into a sense of insecurity? And at
this Rance indulged again in a fit of mental merriment at the other's
expense.

But, although he would have denied it in toto, the truth of the matter
was that the Sheriff was jealous of Ashby. Witty, generous, and a high
liver, the latter was generally regarded as a man who fascinated women;
moreover, he was known to be a favourite--and here the shoe
pinched--with the Girl. True, the demands of his profession were such as
to prevent his staying long in any camp. Nevertheless, it seemed to
Rance that he contrived frequently to turn up at The Polka when the boys
were at the diggings.

After Ashby's observation the conversation by mutual, if unspoken,
consent, was switched into other channels. But it may be truthfully said
that Rance did not wholly recover his mental equilibrium until a door
was heard to open noiselessly and some whispered words in Spanish fell
upon their ears.

Now the Sheriff, as well as Ashby, had the detective instinct fully
developed; moreover, both men knew a few words of that language and had
an extreme curiosity to hear the conversation going on between a man and
a woman, who were standing just outside in a sort of hallway. As a
result, therefore, both officers sprang to the door with the hope--if
indeed it was Nina Micheltoreña as they surmised--that they might catch
a word or two which would give them a clue to what was likely to take
place at the coming interview. It came sooner than they expected.

". . . Ramerrez--Five thousand dollars!" reached their ears in a soft,
Spanish voice.

Ashby needed nothing more than this. In an instant, much to the
Sheriff's astonishment, and moving marvellously quick for a man of his
heavy build, he was out of the room, leaving Rance to face a woman with
a black mantilla thrown over her head who, presently, entered by another
door.

Nina Micheltoreña, for it was she, did not favour him with as much as an
icy look. Nor did the Sheriff give any sign of knowing her; a wise
proceeding as it turned out, for a quick turn of the head and a subtle
movement of the woman's shoulders told him that she was in anything but
a quiet state of mind. One glance towards the door behind him, however,
and the reason of her anger was all too plain: A Mexican was vainly
struggling in the clutches of Ashby.

"Why are you dragging him in?" Far from quailing before him as did her
confederate, she confronted Ashby with eyes that flashed fire. "He came
with me--"

Ashby cut her short.

"We don't allow greasers in this camp and--" he began in a throaty
voice.

"But he is waiting to take me back!" she objected, and then added: "I
wish him to wait for me outside, and unless you allow him to I'll go at
once." And with these words she made a movement towards the door.

Ashby laid one restraining hand upon her, while with the other he held
on to the Mexican. Of a sudden there had dawned upon him the conviction
that for once in his life he had made a grievous mistake. He had
thought, by the detention of her confederate, to have two strings to his
bow, but one glance at the sneeringly censorious expression on the
Sheriff's face convinced him that no information would be forthcoming
from the woman while in her present rebellious mood.

"All right, my lady," he said, for the time being yielding to her will,
"have your way." And turning now to the Mexican, he added none too
gently:

"Here you, get out!"

Whereupon the Mexican slunk out of the room.

"There's no use of your getting into a rage," went on Ashby, turning to
the woman in a slightly conciliatory manner. "I calculated that the
greaser would be in on the job, too."

All through this scene Rance had been sitting back in his chair chewing
his cigar in contemptuous silence, while his face wore a look of languid
insolence, a fact which, apparently, did not disturb the woman in the
least, for she ignored him completely.

"It was well for you, Señor Ashby, that you let him go. I tell you
frankly that in another moment I should have gone." And now throwing
back her mantilla she took out a cigarette from a dainty, little case
and lit it and coolly blew a cloud of smoke in Rance's face, saying: "It
depends on how you treat me--you, Mr. Jack Rance, as well as Señor
Ashby--whether we come to terms or not. Perhaps I had better go away
anyway," she concluded with a shrug of admirably simulated indifference.

This time Ashby sat perfectly still. It was not difficult to perceive
that her anger was decreasing with every word that she uttered; nor did
he fail to note how fluently she spoke English, a slight Spanish accent
giving added charm to her wonderfully soft and musical voice. How
gloriously beautiful, he told himself, she looked as she stood there,
voluptuous, compelling, alluring, the expression that had been almost
diabolical, gradually fading from her face. Was it possible, he asked
himself, that all this loveliness was soiled forever? He felt that there
was something pitiful in the fact that the woman standing before him
represented negotiable property which could be purchased by any
passer-by who had a few more nuggets in his possession than his
neighbour; and, perhaps, because of his knowledge of the piteous history
of this former belle of Monterey he put a little more consideration into
the voice that said:

"All right, Nina, we'll get down to business. What have you to say to
us?"

By this time Nina's passionate anger had burned itself out. In
anticipation, perhaps, of what she was about to do, she looked straight
ahead of her into space. It was not because she was assailed by some
transient emotion to forswear her treacherous desire for vengeance; she
had no illusion of that kind. Too vividly she recalled the road agent's
indifferent manner at their last interview for any feeling to dwell in
her heart other than hatred. The Pasha sent word to Mr. Coxe, that he
recognised the inviolability of the asylum granted to Hassouna; but
that the evidence of the latter being necessary in the prosecution of
the proceedings relative to the assassination of Major Laing, he
begged him not to favour his flight.
Colonel Warrington wrote to his colleague to the same effect.
However, Hassouna Dghies left Tripoli on the 9th of August, in the night,
in the disguise, it is said, of an American officer, and took
refuge on board the United States corvette _Fairfield_, Captain
Parker, which was then at anchor in the roads of Tripoli.

Doubtless, Captain Parker was deceived with respect to Hassouna,
otherwise the noble flag of the United States would not have covered
with its protection a man accused of being an accomplice in an
assassination.

It is fully believed that this escape was ardently solicited by a French
agent. It is even said, that the proposal was first made to the captain
of one of our (French) ships, but that he nobly replied, that one of
the king's officers could not favour a suspicious flight--that he would
not receive Hassouna on board his ship, except by virtue of a written
order, and, at all events in open day, and without disguise.

The _Fairfield_ weighed anchor on the 10th of August, in the
morning.

The Pasha, enraged at this escape of Hassouna, summoned to his palace
Mohamed Dghies, brother of the fugitive, and there, in the presence
of his principal officers, commanded him, with a stern voice, to
declare the truth.

Mohamed fell at his master's feet, and declared upon oath, and in
writing, that his brother Hassouna had had Major Laing's papers in
his possession, but that he had delivered them up to a person, for
a deduction of forty per cent. on the debts which he had contracted
in France, and the recovery of which this person was endeavouring
to obtain by legal proceedings.

The declaration of Mohamed extends to three pages, containing
valuable and very numerous details respecting the delivery of the
papers of the unfortunate Major, and all the circumstances of this
strange transaction

.

* * * * *

The shape and size of the Major's papers are indicated with the most minute
exactness; it is stated that these papers were taken from him near
Timbuctoo, and subsequently delivered to the person abovementioned _entire,
and without breaking the seals of red wax_--a circumstance which
would demonstrate the participation of Hassouna in the assassination;
for how can it be supposed otherwise, that the wretches who murdered
the Major would have brought these packages to such a distance
without having been tempted by cupidity, or even the curiosity so
natural to savages, to break open their frail covers?

Mohamed, however, after he had left the palace, fearing that the Pasha
in his anger would make him answerable for his brother's crime, according
to the usual mode of doing justice at Tripoli, hastened to seek
refuge in the house of the person of whom we have spoken, and to implore
his protection.

Soon afterwards the consul-general of the Netherlands, accompanied
by his colleagues the consuls-general of Sweden, Denmark, and
Sardinia, proceeded to the residence of the person pointed out as
the receiver, and in the name of Colonel Warrington, and by virtue
of the declaration of Mohamed, called upon him instantly to restore
Major Laing's papers.

A
moment more, however, and a strange thought had fastened itself on one
of their active minds--a thought which, although persisting in forcing
itself upon the Sheriff's consideration, was in the end rejected as
wholly improbable. But who was it then? In his intensity Rance let his
cigar go out.

"Ah!" at last he cried. "Johnson, by the eternal!"

"Johnson?" echoed Ashby, wholly at sea and surprised at the look of
corroboration in Nina's eyes.

"Yes, Johnson," went on Rance, insistently. Why had he not seen at once
that it was Johnson who was the road agent! There could be no mistake!
"You weren't there," he explained hurriedly, "when he came in and began
flirting with the Girl and--"

"Ramerrez making love to the Girl?" broke in Ashby. "Ye Gods!"

"The Girl? So that's the woman he's after now!" Nina laughed bitterly.
"Well, she's not destined to have him for long, I can tell you!" And
with that she reached out for the bottle on the table and poured herself
a small glass of whisky and swallowed it. When she turned her lips were
tightly shut over her brilliant teeth, a thousand thoughts came rushing
into her brain. There was no longer any compunction--she would strike
now and deep. Through her efforts alone the man would be captured, and
she gloried in the thought.

"Here--here is something that will interest you!" she said; and putting
her hand in her bosom drew out a soiled, faded photograph. "There--that
will settle him for good and all! Never again will he boast of trifling
with Nina Micheltoreña--with me, a Micheltoreña in whose veins runs the
best and proudest blood of California!"

Ashby fairly snatched the photograph out of her hand and, after one look
at it, passed it over to the Sheriff.

"Good of him, isn't it?" sneered Nina; and then seemingly trying by her
very vehemence to impress upon herself the impossibility of his ever
being anything but an episode in her life, she added: "I hate him!"

The picture was indeed an excellent one. It represented Ramerrez in the
gorgeous dress of a _caballero_--and the outlaw was a fine specimen of
that spectacular class of men. But Rance studied the photograph only
long enough to be sure that no mistake was possible. With a quick
movement he put it away in his pocket and looked long and hard at the
figure of the degraded woman standing before him and revelling in her
treachery. In that time he forgot that anyone had ever entertained a
kind thought about her; he forgot that she once was respected as well as
admired; he was conscious only of regarding her with a far deeper
disgust and repugnance than he held towards others much her inferior in
birth and education. But, presently, his face grew a shade whiter, if
that were possible, and he cursed himself for not having thought of the
danger to which the Girl might even now be exposed. In less than a
minute, therefore, both men stood ready for the work before them. But on
the threshold just before going out into the fierce storm that had burst
during the last few minutes, he paused and called back:

"You Mexican devil! If any harm comes to the Girl, I'll strangle you
with my own hands!" And not waiting to hear the woman's mocking laughter
he passed out, followed by Ashby, into the storm.


X.


In the still black night and with no guide other than the dimly-lighted
lantern which she carried, the Girl had started for home--a bit of
shelter in the middle of a great silence, a little fortress in the
wilderness, as it were, with its barred doors and windows--on the top of
Cloudy Mountain. To be sure, it was not the first time that she had
followed the trail alone: Day and night, night and day, for as long,
almost, as she could remember, she had been doing it; indeed, she had
watched the alders, oaks and dwarf pines, that bordered the trail, grow
year by year as she herself had grown, until now the whispering of the
mountain's night winds spoke a language as familiar as her own; but
never before had she climbed up into the clean, wide, free sweep of this
unbounded horizon, the very air untainted and limitless as the sky
itself, with so keen and uncloying a pleasure. But there was a new
significance attached to her home-coming to-night: was she not to
entertain there her first real visitor?

At the threshold of her cabin the Girl, her cheeks aglow and eyes as
bright, almost, as the red cape that enveloped her lithe, girlish
figure, paused, and swinging her lantern high above her head so that its
light was reflected in the room, she endeavoured to imagine what would
be the impression that a stranger would receive coming suddenly upon
these surroundings.

And well might she have paused, for no eye ever rested upon a more
conglomerate ensemble! Yet, withal, there was a certain attractiveness
about this log-built, low, square room, half-papered with gaudy
paper--the supply, evidently, having fallen short,--that was as
unexpected as it was unusual.

Upon the floor, which had a covering of corn sacks, were many beautiful
bear and wolf skins, Indian rugs and Navajo blankets; while
overhead--screening some old trunks and boxes neatly piled up high in
the loft, which was reached by a ladder, generally swung out of the
way--hung a faded, woollen blanket; from the opposite corner there fell
an old, patchwork, silk quilt. Dainty white curtains in all their
crispness were at the windows, and upon the walls were many rare and
weird trophies of the chase, not to mention the innumerable pictures
that had been taken from "Godey's Lady Book" and other periodicals of
that time. A little book-shelf, that had been fashioned out of a box,
was filled with old and well-read books; while the mantel that guarded
the fireplace was ornamented with various small articles, conspicuous
among which were a clock that beat loud, automatic time with a brassy
resonance, a china dog and cat of most gaudy colours, a whisky bottle
and two tumblers, and some winter berries in a jar.

Beauty and strength, and wit, and wealth, and power Have their short
flourishing hour, And love to see themselves, and smile, And joy in their
pre-eminence a while; Even so in the same land, Poor weeds, rich corn,
gay flowers together stand; Alas, death mows down all with an impartial
hand.

III.

And all you men, whom greatness does so please, Ye feast, I fear, like
Damocles.

If you your eyes could upwards move, (But you, I fear, think nothing is
above) You would perceive by what a little thread The sword still hangs
over your head.
No tide of wine would drown your cares, No mirth or music over-noise
your fears; The fear of death would you so watchful keep, As not to
admit the image of it, sleep.

IV.

Sleep is a god too proud to wait in palaces; And yet so humble, too,
as not to scorn The meanest country cottages; His poppy grows among
the corn.
The halcyon sleep will never build his nest In any stormy breast.
'Tis not enough that he does find Clouds and darkness in their mind;
Darkness but half his work will do, 'Tis not enough; he must find
quiet too.

V.

The man who, in all wishes he does make, Does only Nature's counsel
take, That wise and happy man will never fear The evil aspects of
the year, Nor tremble, though two comets should appear.

He does not look in almanacks to see, Whether he fortunate shall be;
Let Mars and Saturn in the heavens conjoin, And what they please against
the world design, So Jupiter within him shine.

VII.

If of their pleasures and desires no end be found; God to their cares and
fears will set no bound.
What would content you? Who can tell?
Ye fear so much to lose what you have got As if ye liked it well.

Ye strive for more, as if ye liked it not.
Go, level hills, and fill up seas, Spare nought that may your wanton
fancy please; But trust me, when you have done all this, Much will be
missing still, and much will be amiss.

OF AVARICE.

There are two sorts of avarice; the one is but of a bastard kind;
and that is, the rapacious appetite of gain, not for its own sake,
but for the pleasure of refunding it immediately through all the
channels of pride and luxury.

The other is the true kind, and properly so called; which is a
restless and unsatiable desire of riches, not for any further end
of use, but only to hoard, and preserve, and perpetually increase
them.

The covetous man of the first kind is like a greedy ostrich, which
devours any metal, but it is with an intent to feed upon it, and
in effect it makes a shift to digest and excern it.

The second is like the foolish chough, which loves to steal money
only to hide it. The first does much harm to mankind, and a little
good too, to some few. The second does good to none; no, not to
himself. The first can make no excuse to God, or angels, or rational
men for his actions.

The second can give no reason or colour, not to the devil himself,
for what he does: he is a slave to Mammon without wages. The first makes
a shift to be beloved; aye, and envied, too, by some people. The second
is the universal object of hatred and contempt.

There is no vice has been so pelted with good sentences, and especially
by the poets, who have pursued it with stories and fables, and
allegories and allusions; and moved, as we say, every stone to fling
at it, among all which, I do not remember a more fine and gentlemen-like
correction than that which was given it by one line of Ovid's.

Desunt luxuriae malta, avaritiae omnia.

Much is wanting to luxury; all to avarice
To which saying I have a mind to add one member and render it thus:-
Poverty wants some, luxury many, avarice all things.

Somebody says of a virtuous and wise man, that having nothing, he
has all.

This is just his antipode, who, having all things, yet has nothing.
He is a guardian eunuch to his beloved gold: Audivi eos amatores
esse maximos sed nil potesse.

They are the fondest lovers, but impotent to enjoy.

And, oh, what man's condition can be worse Than his, whom plenty
starves, and blessings curse?

The beggars but a common fate deplore, The rich poor man's emphatically
poor.

I wonder how it comes to pass that there has never been any law
made against him.

Against him, do I say?

I mean for him, as there is a public provision made for all other madmen.
It is very reasonable that the king should appoint some persons (and
I think the courtiers would not be against this proposition) to
manage his estate during his life (for his heirs commonly need not
that care), and out of it to make it their business to see that he
should not want alimony befitting his condition, which he could
never get out of his own cruel fingers.

We relieve idle vagrants and counterfeit beggars, but have no care
at all of these really poor men, who are, methinks, to be respectfully
treated in regard of their quality.

I might be endless against them, but I am almost choked with the
superabundance of the matter.

   Too much plenty impoverishes me as it does them.

I will conclude this odious subject with part of Horace's first
Satire, which take in his own familiar style:-
I admire, Maecenas, how it comes to pass, That no man ever yet
contented was, Nor is, nor perhaps will be, with that state In which
his own choice plants him, or his fate.

Happy the merchant! the old soldier cries.

The merchant, beaten with tempestuous skies Happy the soldier! one half-hour
to thee Gives speedy death or glorious victory.

   The lawyer, knocked up
    early from his rest By restless
    clients, calls the peasant blest.

The peasant, when his labours ill succeed, Envies the mouth which only
talk does feed.
'Tis not, I think you'll say, that I want store Of instances, if
here I add no more, They are enough to reach at least a mile Beyond
long Orator Fabius his style.

But hold, you whom no fortune e'er endears, Gentlemen, malcontents,
and mutineers, Who bounteous Jove so often cruel call, Behold,
Jove's now resolved to please you all.

Thou, soldier, be a merchant; merchant, thou A soldier be; and lawyer
to the plough.
Change all your stations straight. Why do they stay?
The devil a man will change now when he may.

Were I in General Jove's abused case, By Jove, I'd cudgel this rebellious
race; But he's too good; be all, then, as you were; However, make
the best of what you are, And in that state be cheerful and rejoice,
Which either was your fate or was your choice.

No; they must labour yet, and sweat and toil, And very miserable
be awhile.

But 'tis with a design only to gain What may their age with plenteous
ease maintain; The prudent pismire does this lesson teach, And
industry to lazy mankind preach.

The little drudge does trot about and sweat, Nor does he straight
devour all he can get, But in his temperate mouth carries it home,
A stock for winter which he knows must come.

And when the rolling world to creatures here Turns up the deformed
wrong side of the year, And shuts him in with storms and cold and
wet, He cheerfully does his past labours eat.

Oh, does he so?

your wise example, the ant Does not at all times rest, and plenty
want.

But, weighing justly a mortal ant's condition, Divides his life
'twixt labour and fruition.

Thee neither heat, nor storms, nor wet, nor cold From thy unnatural diligence
can withhold, To the Indies thou wouldst run rather than see Another,
though a friend, richer than thee.

Fond man! what good or beauty can be found In heaps of treasure buried
under ground?
Which, rather than diminished e'er to see, Thou wouldst thyself,
too, buried with them be And what's the difference is't not quite
as bad Never to use, as never to have had?

In thy vast barns millions of quarters store, Thy belly, for all
that, will hold no more Than mine does.

Every baker makes much bread, What then?

He's with no more than others fed.
Do you within the bounds of Nature live, And to augment your own
you need not strive; One hundred acres will no less for you Your
life's whole business than ten thousand do.

But pleasant 'tis to take from a great store; What, man? though you're
resolved to take no more Than I do from a small one; if your will
Be but a pitcher or a pot to fill, To some great river for it must
you go, When a clear spring just at your feet does flow?

Give me the spring which does to human use, Safe, easy, and untroubled
stores produce; He who scorns these, and needs will drink at Nile,
Must run the danger of the crocodile; And of the rapid stream itself
which may, At unawares bear him perhaps away.

In a full flood Tantalus stands, his skin Washed o'er in vain, for
ever dry within; He catches at the stream with greedy lips, From
his touched mouth the wanton torment slips.

You laugh now, and expand your careful brow:
'Tis finely said, but what's all this to you?

Change but the name, this fable is thy story, Thou in a flood of
useless wealth dost glory, Which thou canst only touch, but never
taste; The abundance still, and still the want does last.

The treasures of the gods thou wouldst not spare, But when they're
made thine own, they sacred are, And must be kept with reverence;
as if thou No other use of precious gold didst know But that of
curious pictures to delight With the fair stamp thy virtuoso sight.

The only true and genuine use is this, To buy the things which
nature cannot miss Without discomfort, oil, and vital bread.

And wine by which the life of life is fed, And all those few things else
by which we live All that remains is given for thee to give.
If cares and troubles, envy, grief, and fear, The bitter fruits be
which fair riches bear, If a new poverty grow out of store, The old
plain way, ye gods!

let me be poor.

A PARAPHRASE ON AN ODE IN HORACE'S THIRD BOOK, BEGINNING THUS:-
"Inclusam Danaen turris ahenea."

A tower of brass, one would have said, And locks, and bolts, and iron
bars, And guards as strict as in the heat of wars Might have preserved
one innocent maidenhood.

The jealous father thought he well might spare All further jealous
care; And as he walked, to himself alone he smiled To think how
Venus' arts he had beguiled; And when he slept his rest was deep,
But Venus laughed to see and hear him sleep.

She taught the amorous Jove A magical receipt in love, Which armed
him stronger and which helped him more Than all his thunder did and
his almightyship before.

II.

She taught him love's elixir, by which art His godhead into gold he
did convert; No guards did then his passage stay, He passed with ease,
gold was the word; Subtle as lightning, bright, and quick, and fierce,
Gold through doors and walls did pierce; And as that works sometimes upon
the sword, Melted the maiden dread away, Even in the secret scabbard
where it lay.

The prudent Macedonian king, To blow up towns, a golden mine did spring;
He broke through gates with this petar, 'Tis the great art of peace, the
engine 'tis of war, And fleets and armies follow it afar; The ensign
'tis at land, and 'tis the seaman's scar.

III.

Let all the world slave to this tyrant be, Creature to this disguised
deity, Yet it shall never conquer me.

A guard of virtues will not let it pass, And wisdom is a tower of stronger
brass.
The muses' laurel, round my temples spread, Does from this lightning's
force secure my head, Nor will I lift it up so high, As in the
violent meteor's way to lie.

Wealth for its power do we honour and adore?

The things we hate, ill fate, and death, have more.

IV.

From towns and courts, camps of the rich and great, The vast Xerxean
army, I retreat, And to the small Laconic forces fly Which hold
the straits of poverty.

Cellars and granaries in vain we fill With all the bounteous summer's
store:
If the mind thirst and hunger still, The poor rich man's emphatically
poor.
Slaves to the things we too much prize, We masters grow of all that we
despise.

V.

A field of corn, a fountain, and a wood, Is all the wealth by nature
understood.
The monarch on whom fertile Nile bestows All which that grateful earth
can bear, Deceives himself, if he suppose That more than this falls
to his share.

Whatever an estate does beyond this afford, Is not a rent paid to the Lord;
But is a tax illegal and unjust, Exacted from it by the tyrant lust.
Much will always wanting be, To him who much desires. Thrice happy he To
whom the wise indulgency of Heaven, With sparing hand but just enough
has given.

THE DANGERS OF AN HONEST MAN IN MUCH COMPANY.

If twenty thousand naked Americans were not able to resist the assaults
of but twenty well-armed Spaniards, I see little possibility for
one honest man to defend himself against twenty thousand knaves,
who are all furnished cap-a-pie with the defensive arms of worldly
prudence, and the offensive, too, of craft and malice.

He will find no less odds than this against him if he have much to
do in human affairs.

The only advice, therefore, which I can give him is, to be sure not to
venture his person any longer in the open campaign, to retreat and
entrench himself, to stop up all avenues, and draw up all bridges
against so numerous an enemy.

The truth of it is, that a man in much business must either make
himself a knave, or else the world will make him a fool: and if
the injury went no farther than the being laughed at, a wise man
would content himself with the revenge of retaliation: but the case
is much worse, for these civil cannibals too, as well as the wild
ones, not only dance about such a taken stranger, but at last devour
him.

A sober man cannot get too soon out of drunken company; though they
be never so kind and merry among themselves, it is not unpleasant
only, but dangerous to him.

Do ye wonder that a virtuous man should love to be alone?

It is hard for him to be otherwise; he is so, when he is among ten thousand;
neither is the solitude so uncomfortable to be alone without any
other creature, as it is to be alone in the midst of wild beasts.

Man is to man all kind of beasts--a fawning dog, a roaring lion, a thieving
fox, a robbing wolf, a dissembling crocodile, a treacherous decoy,
and a rapacious vulture.

The civilest, methinks, of all nations, are those whom we account
the most barbarous; there is some moderation and good nature in the
Toupinambaltians who eat no men but their enemies, whilst we learned
and polite and Christian Europeans, like so many pikes and sharks,
prey upon everything that we can swallow.

It is the great boast of eloquence and philosophy, that they first
congregated men dispersed, united them into societies, and built
up the houses and the walls of cities.

I wish they could unravel all they had woven; that we might have our woods
and our innocence again instead of our castles and our policies. They
have assembled many thousands of scattered people into one body: it
is true, they have done so, they have brought them together into
cities to cozen, and into armies to murder one another; they found
them hunters and fishers of wild creatures, they have made them
hunters and fishers of their brethren; they boast to have reduced
them to a state of peace, when the truth is they have only taught
them an art of war; they have framed, I must confess, wholesome
laws for the restraint of vice, but they raised first that devil
which now they conjure and cannot bind; though there were before
no punishments for wickedness, yet there was less committed because
there were no rewards for it.

But the men who praise philosophy from this topic are much deceived;
let oratory answer for itself, the tinkling, perhaps, of that may
unite a swarm: it never was the work of philosophy to assemble
multitudes, but to regulate only, and govern them when they were
assembled, to make the best of an evil, and bring them, as much as
is possible, to unity again.

"I beg your pardon; I did not see anyone when I came in," he said in
humble apology, his eyes the while upon Wowkle who, having blown out the
candle and removed the lantern from the table to the floor, was
directing her footsteps towards the cupboard, into which she presently
disappeared, closing the door behind her. "But seeing you standing
there," went on Johnson in explanation, "and looking into your lovely
eyes, well, the temptation to take you in my arms was so great that I,
well, I took--"

"You must be in the habit o' takin' things, Mr. Johnson," broke in the
Girl. "I seen you on the road to Monterey, goin' an' comin', an' passed
a few words with you; I seen you once since, but that don't give you no
excuse to begin this sort o' game." The Girl's tone was one of reproach
rather than of annoyance, and for the moment the young man was left with
a sense of having committed an indiscretion. Silently, sheepishly, he
moved away, while she quietly went over to the fire.

"Besides, you might have prospected a bit first anyway," presently she
went on, watching the tips of her slender white fingers held out
transparent towards the fire.

Just at that moment a log dropped, turning up its glowing underside.
Wheeling round with a smile, Johnson said:

"I see how wrong I was."

And then, seeing that the Girl made no move in his direction, he asked,
still smiling:

"May I take off my coat?"

The Girl remained silent, which silence he interpreted as an assent, and
went on to make himself at home.

"Thank you," he said simply. "What a bully little place you have here!
It's awfully snug!" he continued delightedly, as his eyes wandered about
the room. "And to think that I've found you again when I--Oh, the luck
of it!"

He went over to her and held out his hands, a broad, yet kindly smile
lighting up his strong features, making him appear handsomer, even, than
he really was, to the Girl taking in the olive-coloured skin glowing
with healthful pallor.

"Friends?" he asked.

Nevertheless the girl did not give him her hand, but quickly drew it
away; she answered his question with a question:

"Are you sorry?"

"No, I'm not sorry."

To this she made no reply but quietly, disappointedly returned to the
fireplace, where she stood in contemplative silence, waiting for his
next words.

But he did not speak; he contented himself with gazing at the tender
girlishness of her, the blue-black eyes, and flesh that was so bright
and pure that he knew it to be soft and firm, making him yearn for her.

Involuntarily she turned towards him, and she saw that in his face which
caused her eyes to drop and her breath to come more quickly.

"That damme style just catches a woman!" she ejaculated with a little
tremour in her voice.

Then her mood underwent a sudden change in marked contrast to that of
the moment before. "Look here, Mr. Johnson," she said, "down at the
saloon to-night you said you always got what you wanted. O' course I've
got to admire you for that. I reckon women always do admire men for
gettin' what they want. But if huggin' me's included, jest count it
out."

For a breathing space there was a dead silence.

"That was a lovely day, Girl, on the road to Monterey, wasn't it?" of a
sudden Johnson observed dreamily.

The Girl's eyes opened upon him wonderingly.

"Was it?"

"Well, wasn't it?"

The Girl thought it was and she laughed.

"Say, take a chair and set down for a while, won't you?" was her next
remark, she herself taking a chair at the table.

"Thanks," he said, coming slowly towards her while his eyes wandered
about the room for a chair.

"Say, look 'ere!" she shot out, scrutinising him closely; "I ben
thinkin' you didn't come to the saloon to see me to-night. What brought
you?"

"It was Fate," he told her, leaning over the table and looking down upon
her admiringly.

She pondered his answer for a moment, then blurted out:

"You're a bluff! It may have been Fate, but I tho't you looked kind o'
funny when Rance asked you if you hadn't missed the trail an' wa'n't on
the road to see Nina Micheltoreña--she that lives in the greaser
settlement an' has the name o' shelterin' thieves."

At the mention of thieves, Johnson paled frightfully and the knife which
he had been toying with dropped to the floor.

"Was it Fate or the back trail?" again queried the Girl.

"It was Fate," calmly reiterated the man, and looked her fairly in the
eye.

The cloud disappeared from the Girl's face.

"Serve the coffee, Wowkle!" she called almost instantly. And then it was
that she saw that no chair had been placed at the table for him. She
sprang to her feet, exclaiming: "Oh, Lordy, you ain't got no chair yet
to--"

"Careful, please, careful," quickly warned Johnson, as she rounded the
corner of the table upon which his guns lay.

But fear was not one of the Girl's emotions. At the display of guns that
met her gaze she merely shrugged and inquired placidly:

"Oh, how many guns do you carry?"

Not unnaturally she waited for his answer before starting in quest of a
chair for him; but instead Johnson quietly went over to the chair near
the door where his coat lay, hung it up on the peg with his hat, and
returning now with a chair, he answered:

"Oh, several when travelling through the country."

"Well, set down," said the Girl bluntly, and hurried to his side to
adjust his chair. But she did not return to her place at the table;
instead, she took the barrel rocker near the fireplace and began to rock
nervously to and fro. In silence Johnson sat studying her, looking her
through and through, as it were.

"It must be strange living all alone way up here in the mountains," he
remarked, breaking the spell of silence. "Isn't it lonely?"

"Lonely? Mountains lonely?" The Girl's laugh rang out clearly. "Besides,"
she went on, her eyes fairly dancing with excitement, "I got a little
pinto an' I'm all over the country on 'im. Finest little horse you ever
saw! If I want to I can ride right down into the summer at the foothills
with miles o' Injun pinks jest a-laffin' an' tiger lilies as mad as
blazes. There's a river there, too--the Injuns call it a water-road--an'
I can git on that an' drift an' drift an' smell the wild syringa on the
banks. An if I git tired o' that I can turn my horse up-grade an' gallop
right into the winter an' the lonely pines an' firs a-whisperin' an'
a-sighin'. Lonely? Mountains lonely, did you say? Oh, my mountains, my
beautiful peaks, my Sierras! God's in the air here, sure! You can see
Him layin' peaceful hands on the mountain tops. He seems so near you
want to let your soul go right on up."

Johnson was touched at the depth of meaning in her words; he nodded his
head in appreciation.

"I see, when you die you won't have far to go," he quietly observed.

Minutes passed before either spoke. Then all at once the Girl rose and
took the chair facing his, the table between them as at first.

"Wowkle, serve the coffee!" again she called.

Immediately, Wowkle emerged from the cupboard, took the coffee-pot from
the fire and filled the cups that had been kept warm on the fireplace
base, and after placing a cup beside each plate she squatted down before
the fire in watchful silence.

"But when it's very cold up here, cold, and it snows?" queried Johnson,
his admiration for the plucky, quaint little figure before him growing
by leaps and bounds.

"Oh, the boys come up an' digs me out o' my front door like--like--" She
paused, her sunny laugh rippling out at the recollection of it all, and
Johnson noted the two delightful dimples in her rounded cheeks. Indeed,
she had never appeared prettier to him than when displaying her two rows
of perfect, dazzling teeth, which was the case every time that she
laughed.

"--like a little rabbit, eh?" he supplemented, joining in the laugh.

She nodded eagerly.

"I get digged out near every day when the mine's shet down an' Academy
opens," went on the Girl in the same happy strain, her big blue eyes
dancing with merriment.

Johnson looked at her wonderingly; he questioned:

"Academy? Here? Why, who teaches in your Academy?"

"Me--I'm her--I'm teacher," she told him with not a little show of
pride.

With difficulty Johnson suppressed a smile; nevertheless he observed
soberly:

"Oh, so you're the teacher?"

"Yep--I learn m'self an' the boys at the same time," she hastened to
explain, and dropped a heaping teaspoon of coarse brown sugar into his
cup. "But o' course Academy's suspended when ther's a blizzard on 'cause
no girl could git down the mountain then."

"Is it so very severe here when there's a blizzard on?" Johnson was
saying, when there came to his ears a strange sound--the sound of the
wind rising in the canyon below.

The Girl looked at him in blank astonishment--a look that might easily
have been interpreted as saying, "Where do you hail from?" She answered:

"Is it . . .? Oh, Lordy, they come in a minute! All of a sudden you
don't know where you are--it's awful!"

"Not many women--" digressed the man, glancing apprehensively towards
the door, but she cut him short swiftly with the ejaculation:

"Bosh!" And picking up a plate she raised it high in the air the better
to show off its contents. "Charlotte rusks an' lemming turnover!" she
announced, searching his face for some sign of joy, her own face
lighting up perceptibly.

"Well, this is a treat!" cried out Johnson between sips of coffee.

"Have one?"

"You bet!" he returned with unmistakable pleasure in his voice.

The Girl served him with one of each, and when he thanked her she beamed
with happiness.

"Let me send you some little souvenir of to-night"--he said, a little
while later, his admiring eyes settled on her hair of burnished gold
which glistened when the light fell upon it--"something that you'd just
love to read in your course of teaching at the Academy." He paused to
search his mind for something suitable to suggest to her; at length he
questioned: "Now, what have you been reading lately?"

The Girl's face broke into smiles as she answered:

"Oh, it's an awful funny book about a kepple. He was a classic an' his
name was Dent."

Johnson knitted his brows and thought a moment. "He was a classic, you
say, and his name was--Oh, yes, I know--Dante," he declared, with
difficulty controlling the laughter that well-nigh convulsed him. "And
you found Dante funny, did you?"

"Funny? I roared!" acknowledged the Girl with a frankness that was so
genuine that Johnson could not help but admire her all the more. "You
see, he loved a lady--" resumed the Girl, toying idly with her spoon.

"--Beatrice," supplemented Johnson, pronouncing the name with the
Italian accent which, by the way, was not lost on the Girl.

"How?" she asked quickly, with eyes wide open.

Johnson ignored the question. Anxious to hear her interpretation of the
story, he requested her to continue.

"He loved a lady--" began the Girl, and broke off short. And going over
to the book-shelf she took down a volume and began to finger the leaves
absently. Presently she came back, and fixing her eyes upon him, she
went on: "It made me think of it, what you said down to the saloon
to-night about livin' so you didn't care what come after. Well, he made
up his min', this Dent--Dantes--that one hour o' happiness with her was
worth the whole da--" She checked the word on her tongue, and concluded:
"outfit that come after. He was willin' to sell out his chances for
sixty minutes with 'er. Well, I jest put the book down an' hollered."
And once more she broke into a hearty laugh.

"Of course you did," agreed Johnson, joining in the laugh. "All the
same," he presently added, "you knew he was right."

"I didn't!" she contradicted with spirit, and slowly went back to the
book-shelf with the book.

"You did."

"Didn't!"

"You did."

"Didn't! Didn't!"

"I don't--"

"You do, you do," insisted the Girl, plumping down into the chair which
she had vacated at the table.

"Do you mean to say--" Johnson got no further, for the Girl, with a
naïveté that made her positively bewitching to the man before her, went
on as if there had been no interruption:

"That a feller could so wind h'ms'lf up as to say, 'Jest give me one
hour o' your sassiety; time ain't nothin', nothin' ain't nothin' only to
be a da--darn fool over you!' Ain't it funny to feel like that?" And
then, before Johnson could frame an answer:

"Yet, I s'pose there are people that love into the grave an' into death
an' after." The Girl's voice lowered, stopped. Then, looking straight
ahead of her, her eyes glistening, she broke out with:

"Golly, it jest lifts you right up by your bootstraps to think of it,
don't it?"

Johnson was not smiling now, but sat gazing intently at her through
half-veiled lids.

"It does have that effect," he answered, the wonder of it all creeping
into his voice.

"Yet, p'r'aps he was ahead o' the game. P'r'aps--" She did not finish
the sentence, but broke out with fresh enthusiasm: "Oh, say, I jest love
this conversation with you! I love to hear you talk! You give me idees!"

Johnson's heart was too full for utterance; he could only think of his
own happiness. The next instant the Girl called to Wowkle to bring the
candle, while she, still eager and animated, her eyes bright, her lips
curving in a smile, took up a cigar and handed it to him, saying:

"One o' your real Havanas!"

"But I"--began Johnson, protestingly.

Nevertheless the Girl lit a match for him from the candle which Wowkle
held up to her, and, while the latter returned the candle to the mantel,
Johnson lighted his cigar from the burning match between her fingers.

"Oh, Girl, how I'd love to know you!" he suddenly cried with the fire of
love in his eyes.

"But you do know me," was her answer, as she watched the smoke from his
cigar curl upwards toward the ceiling.

"Not well enough," he sighed.

For a brief second only she was silent. Whether she read his thoughts it
would be difficult to say; but there came a moment soon when she could
not mistake them.

"What's your drift, anyway?" she asked, looking him full in the face.

"To know you as Dante knew the lady--'One hour for me, one hour worth
the world,'" he told her, all the while watching and loving her beauty.

At the thought she trembled a little, though she answered with
characteristic bluntness:

"He didn't git it, Mr. Johnson."

"All the same there are women we could die for," insisted Johnson,
dreamily.

The Girl was in the act of carrying her cup to her mouth but put it down
on the table. Leaning forward, she inquired somewhat sneeringly:

"Mr. Johnson, how many times have you died?" Johnson did not have to
think twice before answering. With wide, truthful eyes he said:

"That day on the road to Monterey I said just that one woman for me. I
wanted to kiss you then," he added, taking her hand in his. And, strange
to say, she was not angry, not unwilling, but sweetly tender and modest
as she let it lay there.

"But, Mr. Johnson, some men think so much o' kisses that they don't want
a second kiss from the same girl," spoke up the Girl after a moment's
reflection.

"Doesn't that depend on whether they love her or not? Now all loves are
not alike," reasoned the man in all truthfulness.

"No, but they all have the same aim--to git 'er if they can," contended
the Girl, gently withdrawing her hand.

Silence filled the room.

"Ah, I see you don't know what love is," at length sighed Johnson,
watching the colour come and go from her face.

The Girl hesitated, then answered in a confused, uneven voice:

"Nope. Mother used to say, 'It's a tickling sensation at the heart that
you can't scratch,' an' we'll let it go at that."

"Oh, Girl, you're bully!" laughed the man, rising, and making an attempt
to embrace her. But all of a sudden he stopped and stood with a
bewildered look upon his face: a fierce gale was sweeping the mountain.
It filtered in through the crevices of the walls and doors; the lights
flickered; the curtains swayed; and the cabin itself rocked uncertainly
until it seemed as if it would be uprooted. It was all over in a minute.
In fact, the wind had died away almost simultaneously with the Girl's
loud cry of "Wowkle, hist the winder!"

It is not to be wondered at, however, that Johnson looked apprehensively
about him with every fresh impulse of the gale. The Girl's description
of the storms on the mountain was fresh in his mind, and there was also
good and sufficient reason why he should not be caught in a blizzard on
the top of Cloudy Mountain! Nevertheless, as before, the calm look which
he saw on the Girl's face reassured him. Advancing once more towards
her, he stretched out his arms as if to gather her in them.

"Look out, you'll muss my roses!" she cried, waving him back and dodging
Wowkle who, having cleared the table, was now making her last trip to
the cupboard.

"Well, hadn't you better take them off then?" suggested Johnson, still
following her up.

"Give a man an inch an' he'll be at Sank Hosey before you know it!" she
flung at him over her shoulder, and made straightway for the bureau.

But although Johnson desisted, he kept his eyes upon her as she took the
roses from her hair, losing none of the picture that she made with the
light beating and playing upon her glimmering eyes, her rosy cheeks and
her parted lips.

"Is there--is there anyone else?" he inquired falteringly, half-fearful
lest there was.

"A man always says, 'who was the first one?' but the girl says, 'who'll
be the next one?'" she returned, as she carefully laid the roses in her
bureau drawer.

"But the time comes when there never will be a next one."

"No?"

"No."

"I'd hate to stake my pile on that," observed the Girl, drily. She blew
up each glove as it came off and likewise carefully laid them away in
the bureau drawer.

By this time Wowkle's soft tread had ceased, her duties for the night
were over, and she stood at the table waiting to be dismissed.

"Wowkle, git to your wigwam!" suddenly ordered her mistress, watching
her until she disappeared into the cupboard; but she did not see the
Indian woman's lips draw back in a half-grin as she closed the door
behind her.

"Oh, you're sending her away! Must I go, too?" asked Johnson, dismally.

"No--not jest yet; you can stay a--a hour or two longer," the Girl
informed him with a smile; and turning once more to the bureau she
busied herself there for a few minutes longer.

Johnson's joy knew no bounds; he burst out delightedly:

"Why, I'm like Dante! I want the world in that hour, because, you see,
I'm afraid the door of this little paradise might be shut to me after--
Let's say this is my one hour--the hour that gave me--that kiss I want."

"Go long! You go to grass!" returned the Girl with a nervous little
laugh.

Johnson made one more effort and won out; that is, he succeeded, at
last, in getting her in his grasp.

"Listen," said the determined lover, pleading for a kiss as he would
have pleaded for his very life.

It was at this juncture that Wowkle, silently, stealthily, emerged from
the cupboard and made her way over to the door. Her feet were heavily
moccasined and she was blanketed in a stout blanket of gay colouring.

"Ugh--some snow!" she muttered, as a gust of wind beat against her face
and drove great snow-flakes into the room, fairly taking her breath
away. But her words fell on deaf ears. For, oblivious to the storm that
was now raging outside, the youthful pair of lovers continued to
concentrate their thoughts upon the storm that was raging within their
own breasts, the Girl keeping up the struggle with herself, while the
man urged her on as only he knew how.

"Why, if I let you take one you'd take two," denied the Girl,
half-yielding by her very words, if she but knew it.

"No, I wouldn't--I swear I wouldn't," promised the man with great
earnestness.

"Ugh--very bad!" was the Indian woman's muffled ejaculation as she
peered out into the night. But she had promised her lover to come to him
when supper was over, and she would not break faith with him even if it
were at the peril of her life. The next moment she went out, as did the
red light in the Girl's lantern hanging on a peg of the outer door.

"Oh, please, please," said the Girl, half-protestingly, half-willingly.

But the man was no longer to be denied; he kept on urging:

"One kiss, only one."

Here was an appeal which could no longer be resisted, and though
half-frightened by the tone of his voice and the look in his eye, the
Girl let herself be taken into his arms as she murmured:

"'Tain't no use, I lay down my hands to you."

And so it was that, unconscious of the great havoc that was being
wrought by the storm, unconscious of the danger that momentarily
threatened their lives, they remained locked in each other's arms. The
Girl made no attempt to silence him now or withdraw her hands from his.
Why should she? Had he not come to Cloudy Mountain to woo her? Was she
not awaiting his coming? To her it seemed but natural that the
conventions should be as nothing in the face of love. His voice, low and
musical, charged with passion, thrilled through her.

"I love you," said the man, with a note of possession that frightened
her while it filled her with strange, sweet joy. For months she had
dreamed of him and loved him; no wonder that she looked upon him as her
hero and yielded herself entirely to her fate.

She lifted her eyes and he saw the love in them. She freed her hands
from his grasp, and then gave them back to him in a little gesture of
surrender.

"Yes, you're mine, an' I'm yours," she said with trembling lips.

"I have lived but for this from the moment that I first saw you," he
told her, softly.

"Me, too--seein' that I've prayed for it day an' night," she
acknowledged, her eyes seeking his.

"Our destinies have brought us together; whatever happens now I am
content," he said, pressing his lips once more to hers. A little while
later he added: "My darkest hour will be lightened by the memory of you,
to-night."


XII.


The clock, striking the hour of two, filled in a lull that might
otherwise have seemed to require conversation. For some minutes,
Johnson, raised to a higher level of exaltation, even, than was the
Girl, had been secretly rejoicing in the Fate that had brought them
together.

"It's wonderful that I should have found her at last and won her love,"
he soliloquised. "We must be Fortune's children--she and I."

The minutes ticked away and still they were silent. Then, of a sudden,
with infinite tenderness in his voice, Johnson asked:

"What is your name, Girl--your real name?"

"Min--Minnie; my father's name was Smith," she told him, her eyes cast
down under delicately tremulous lids.

"Oh, Minnie Sm--"

"But 'twa'n't his right name," quickly corrected the Girl, and
unconsciously both rose to their feet. "His right name was Falconer."

"Minnie Falconer--well, that is a pretty name," commented Johnson; and
raising her hand to his lips he pressed them against it.

"I ain't sure that's what he said it was--I ain't sure o' anythin' only
jest you," she said coyly, burying her face in his neck.

"You may well be sure of me since I've loved--" Johnson's sentence was
cut short, a wave of remorse sweeping over him. "Turn your head away,
Girl, and don't listen to me," he went on, gently putting her away from
him. "I'm not worthy of you. Don't listen but just say no, no, no, no."

The Girl, puzzled, was even more so when Johnson began to pace the
floor.

"Oh, I know--I ain't good enough for you !" she cried with a little
tremour in her voice. "But I'll try hard, hard . . . If you see
anythin' better in me, why don't you bring it out, 'cause I've loved you
ever since I saw you first, 'cause I knowed that you--that you were the
right man."

"The right man," repeated Johnson, dismally, for his conscience was
beginning to smite him hard.

"Don't laugh!"

"I'm not laughing," as indeed he was not.

"O' course every girl kind o' looks ahead," went on the Girl in
explanation.

"Yes, I suppose," he observed seriously.

"An' figgers about bein'--well, Oh, you know--about bein' settled. An'
when the right man comes, why, she knows 'im, you bet! Jest as we both
knowed each other standin' on the road to Monterey. I said that day,
he's good, he's gran' an' he can have me."

"I could have you," murmured Johnson, meditatively.

The Girl nodded eagerly.

There was a long silence in which Johnson was trying to make up his mind
to tear himself away from her,--the one woman whom he loved in the
world,--for it had been slowly borne in upon him that he was not a fit
mate for this pure young girl. Nor was his unhappiness lessened when he
recalled how she had struggled against yielding to him. At last,
difficult though it was, he took his courage in both hands, and said:

"Girl, I have looked into your heart and my own and now I realise what
this means for us both--for you, Girl--and knowing that, it seems hard
to say good-bye as I should, must and will . . ."

At those clear words spoken by lips which failed so utterly to hide his
misery, the Girl's face turned pale.

"What do you mean?" she asked.

Johnson coloured, hesitated, and finally with a swift glance at the
clock, he briefly explained:

"I mean it's hard to go and leave you here. The clock reminded me that
long before this I should have been on my way. I shouldn't have come up
here at all. God bless you, dear," and here their eyes came together and
seemed unable to part,--"I love you as I never thought I could . . ."

But at Johnson's queer look she hastened to inquire:

"But it ain't for long you're goin'?"

For long! Then she had not understood that he meant to go for all time.
How tell her the truth? While he pondered over the situation there came
to him with great suddenness the thought that, perhaps, after all, Life
never intended that she should be given to him only to be taken away
almost as suddenly; and seized with a desire to hold on to her at any
cost, he sprang forward as if to take her in his arms, but before he
reached her, he stopped short.

"Such happiness is not for me," he muttered under his breath; and then
aloud he added: "No, no, I've got to go now while I have the courage, I
mean." He broke off as suddenly as he had begun, and taking her face in
his hands he kissed her good-bye.

Now, accustomed as was the Girl to the strange comings and goings of the
men at the camp, it did not occur to her to question him further when he
told her that he should have been away before now. Moreover, she trusted
and loved him. And so it was without the slightest feeling of misgiving
that she watched her lover quickly take down his coat and hat from the
peg on the wall and start for the door. On the other hand, it must have
required not a little courage on the man's part to have torn himself
away from this lovely, if unconventional, creature, just as he was
beginning to love truly and appreciate her. But, then, Johnson was a man
of no mean determination!

Not daring to trust himself to words, Johnson paused to look back over
his shoulder at the Girl before plunging forth into the night. But on
opening the door all the multitudinous wild noises of the forests
reached his ears: Sounds of whispering and rocking storm-tossed pines,
sounds of the wind making the rounds of the deep canyon below them,
sounds that would have made the blood run cold of a man more daring,
even, than himself. Like one petrified he stood blinded, almost, by the
great drifts of snow that were being driven into the room, while the
cabin rocked and shook and the roof cracked and snapped, the lights
flickered, smoked, or sent their tongues of fire upward towards the
ceiling, the curtains swayed like pendants in the air, and while
baskets, boxes, and other small furnishings of the cabin were blown in
every direction.

But it was the Girl's quick presence of mind that saved them from being
buried, literally, under the snow. In an instant she had rushed past him
and closed both the outer and inner doors of the cabin; then, going over
to the window, she tried to look through the heavily frosted panes; but
the falling of the sleet and snow, striking the window like fine shot,
made it impossible for her to see more than a few inches away.

"Why, it's the first time I knew that it--" She cut her sentence short
and ended with: "That's the way we git it up here! Look! Look!"

Whereupon, Johnson went over to the window and put his face close to
hers on the frosted panes; a great sea of white snow met his gaze!

"This means--" he said, turning away from the window and meeting her
glance--"surely it doesn't mean that I can't leave Cloudy to-night?"

"It means you can't get off the mountain to-night," calmly answered the
Girl.

"Good Lord!" fell from the man's lips.

"You can't leave this room to-night," went on the Girl, decidedly. "Why,
you couldn't find your way three feet from this door--you a stranger!
You don't know the trail anyway unless you can see it."

"But I can't stay here?" incredulously.

"Why not? Why, that's all right! The boys'll come up an' dig us out
to-morrow or day after. There's plenty o' wood an' you can have my bed."
And with no more ado than that, the Girl went over to the bed to remove
the covers and make it ready for his occupancy.

"I wouldn't think of taking that," protested the man, stoutly, while his
face clouded over.

The Girl felt a thrill at the note of regard in his voice and hastened
to explain:

"I never use it cold nights; I always roll up in my rug in front of the
fire." All of a sudden she broke out into a merry little laugh. "Jest
think of it stormin' all this time an' we didn't know it!"

But Johnson was not in a laughing mood. Indeed, he looked very grave and
serious when presently he said:

"But people coming up here and finding me might--"

The Girl looked up at him in blank amazement.

"Might what?" And then, while she waited for his answer, two shots in
close succession rang out in the night with great distinctness.

There was no mistaking the nearness of the sound. Instantly scenting
trouble and alert at the possibility of danger, Johnson inquired:

"What's that? What's that?"

"Wait! Wait!" came back from the Girl, unconsciously in the same tone,
while she strained her ears for other sounds. She did not have long to
wait, however, before other shots followed, the last ones coming from
further away, so it seemed, and at greater intervals.

"They've got a road agent--it's the posse--p'r'aps they've got Ramerrez
or one o' his band!" suddenly declared the Girl, at the same time
rushing over to the window for some verification of her words. But, as
before, the wind was beating with great force against the frosted panes,
and only a vast stretch of snow met her gaze. Turning away from the
window she now came towards him with: "You see, whoever it is, they're
snowed in--they can't get away."

Johnson knitted his brows and muttered something under his breath which
the Girl did not catch.

Again a shot was fired.

"Another thief crep' into camp," coldly observed the Girl almost
simultaneously with the report.

Johnson winced.

"Poor devil!" he muttered. "But of course, as you say, he's only a
thief."

In reply to which the Girl uttered words to the effect that she was glad
he had been caught.

"Well, you're right," said Johnson, thoughtfully, after a short silence;
then determinedly and in short jerky sentences, he went on: "I've been
thinking that I must go--tear myself away. I have very important
business at dawn--imperative business . . ."

The Girl, who now stood by the table folding up the white cloth cover,
watched him out of the corner of her eye, take down his coat from the
peg on the wall.

"Ever sample one o' our mountain blizzards?" she asked as he slipped on
his coat. "In five minutes you wouldn't know where you was. Your
important business would land you at the bottom of a canyon 'bout twenty
feet from here."

Johnson cleared his throat as if to speak but said nothing; whereupon
the Girl continued:

"You say you believe in Fate. Well, Fate has caught up with you--you got
to stay here."

Johnson was strangely silent. He was wondering how his coming there
to-night had really come about. But he could find no solution to the
problem unless it was in response to that perverse instinct which
prompts us all at times to do the very thing which in our hearts we know
to be wrong. The Girl, meanwhile, after a final creasing of the
neatly-folded cover, started for the cupboard, stopping on the way to
pick up various articles which the wind had strewn about the room.
Flinging them quickly into the cupboard she now went over to the window
and once more attempted to peer out into the night. But as before, it
was of no avail. With a shrug she straightened the curtains at the
windows and started for the door. Her action seemed to quicken his
decision, for, presently, with a gesture of resignation, he threw down
his hat and coat on the table and said as if speaking to himself:

"Well, it is Fate--my Fate that has always made the thing I shouldn't do
so easy." And then, turning to the Girl, he added: "Come, Girl, as you
say, if I can't go, I can't. But I know as I stand here that I'll never
give you up."

The Girl looked puzzled.

"Why, what do you mean?"

"I mean," began Johnson, pacing the floor slowly. Now he stopped by a
chair and pointed as though to the falling snow. "Suppose we say that's
an omen--that the old trail is blotted out and there is a fresh road.
Would you take it with me a stranger, who says: From this day I mean to
be all you'd have me. Would you take it with me far away from here and
forever?"

It did not take the Girl long to frame an answer. Taking Johnson's hand
she said with great feeling:

"Well, show me the girl that would want to go to Heaven alone! I'll sell
out the saloon--I'll go anywhere with you, you bet!"

Johnson bent low over her hand and kissed it. The Girl's straightforward
answer had filled his heart to overflowing with joy.

"You know what that means, don't you?" a moment later he asked.

Sudden joy leapt to her blue eyes.

"Oh, yes," she told him with a world of understanding in her voice.
There was a silence; then she went on reminiscently: "There's a little
Spanish Mission church--I pass it 'most every day. I can look in an' see
the light burnin' before the Virgin an' see the saints standin' round
with glassy eyes an' faded satin slippers. An' I often tho't what they'd
think if I was to walk right in to be made--well, some man's wife. It
makes your blood like pin-points thinkin' about it. There's somethin'
kind o' holy about love, ain't they?"

Johnson nodded. He had never regarded love in that light before, much
less known it. For many moments he stood motionless, a new problem of
right and wrong throbbing in his bosom.

At last, it being settled that Johnson was to pass the night in the
Girl's cabin, she went over to the bed and, once more, began to make it
ready for his occupancy. Meanwhile, Johnson, seated in the barrel rocker
before the fire, watched her with a new interest. The Girl had not gone
very far with her duties, however, when she suddenly came over to him,
plumping herself down on the floor at his feet.

"Say, did you ever ask any other woman to marry you?" she asked as she
leaned far back in his arms.

"No," was the man's truthful answer.

"Oh, how glad I am! Take me--ah, take me I don't care where as long as
it is with you!" cried the Girl in an ecstasy of delight.

"So help me, God, I'm going to . . .!" promised Johnson, his voice
strained, tense. "You're worth something better than me, Girl," he
added, a moment later, "but they say love works miracles every hour,
that it weakens the strong and strengthens the weak. With all my soul I
love you, with all my soul I--" The man let his voice die out, leaving
his sentence unfinished. Suddenly he called: "Why, Min-Minnie!"

"I wasn't really asleep," spoke up the Girl, blinking sleepily. "I'm
jest so happy an' let down, that's all." The next moment, however, she
was forced to acknowledge that she was awfully sleepy and would have to
say good-night.

"All right," said Johnson, rising, and kissed her good-night.

"That's your bed over there," she told him, pointing in the direction of
the curtains.

"But hadn't you better take the bed and let me sleep over here?"

"Not much!"

"You're sure you would be more comfortable by the fire--sure, now?"

"Yes, you bet!"

And so it was that Johnson decided to pass the night in the Girl's
canopied bed while she herself, rolled up in a blanket rug before the
fire, slept on the floor.

"This beats a bed any time," remarked the Girl, spreading out the rug
smoothly; and then, reaching up for the old patchwork, silk quilt that
hung from the loft, she added: "There's one thing--you don't have to
make it up in the mornin'."

"You're splendid, Girl!" laughed Johnson. Presently, he saw her quietly
closet herself in the cupboard, only to emerge a few minutes later
dressed for the night. Over her white cambric gown with its coarse lace
trimming showing at the throat, she wore a red woollen blanket robe held
in at the waist by a heavy, twisted, red cord which, to the man who got
a glimpse of her as she crossed the room, made her prettier, even, than
she had seemed at any time yet.

Quietly, now, the Girl began to put her house in order. All the lights,
save the quaintly-shaded lamp that was suspended over the table, were
extinguished; that one, after many unsuccessful attempts, was turned
down so as to give the right minimum of light which would not interfere
with her lover's sleep. Then she went over to the door to make sure that
it was bolted. Outside the wind howled and shrieked and moaned; but
inside the cabin it had never seemed more cosey and secure and peaceful
to her.

"Now you can talk to me from your bunk an' I'll talk to you from mine,"
she said in a sleepy, lazy voice.

Except for a prodigious yawn which came from the Girl there was an
ominous quiet hanging over the place that chilled the man. Sudden sounds
startled him, and he found it impossible to make any progress with his
preparations for the night. He was about to make some remark, however,
when to his well-attuned ears there came the sound of approaching
footsteps. In an instant he was standing in the parting made by the
curtains, his face eager, animated, tense.

"What's that?" he whispered.

"That's snow slidin'," the Girl informed him without the slightest trace
of anxiety in her voice.

"God bless you, Girl," he murmured, and retreated back of the curtains.
It was only an instant before he was back again with: "Why, there is
something out there--sounded like people calling," he again whispered.

"That's only the wind," she said, adding as she drew her robe tightly
about her: "Gettin' cold, ain't it?"

But, notwithstanding her assurances, Johnson did not feel secure, and it
was with many misgivings that he now directed his footsteps towards the
bed behind the curtains.

"Good-night!" he said uneasily.

"Good-night!" unconsciously returned the Girl in the same tone.

Taking off her slippers the Girl now put on a pair of moccasins and
quietly went over to her bed, where she knelt down and made a silent
prayer.

"Good-night!" presently came from a little voice in the rug.

"Good-night!" answered the man now settled in the centre of the
much-befrilled bed.

There was a silence; then the little voice in the rug called out:

"Say, what's your name?"

"Dick," whispered the man behind the curtains.

"So long, Dick!" drowsily.

"So long, Girl!" dreamily.

There was a brief silence; then, of a sudden, the Girl bolted upright in
bed, and asked:

"Say, Dick, are you sure you don't know that Nina Micheltoreña?"

"Sure," prevaricated the man, not without some compunction.

Whereupon the Girl fell back on her pillows and called out contentedly a
final "Good-night!"


XIII.


There was no mistaking then--no need to contrast her feeling of anxiety
of a few moments ago lest some other woman had preceded her in his
affections, with her indifference on former occasions when her admirers
had proved faithless, to make the Girl realise that she was experiencing
love and was dominated by a passion for this man.

So that, with no reason whatever in her mind to question the sincerity
of Johnson's love for her, it would seem as if nothing were wanting to
make the Girl perfectly happy; that there could be no room in her heart
for any feeling other than elation. And yet, curiously enough, the Girl
could not doze off to sleep. Some mysterious force--a vague foreboding
of something about to happen--impelled her to open her eyes again and
again.

It was an odd and wholly new sensation, this conjuring up of distressing
spectres, for no girl was given less to that sort of thing; all the
same, it was with difficulty that she checked an impulse to cry out to
her lover--whom she believed to be asleep--and make him dissipate, by
renewed assurances, the mysterious barrier which she felt was hemming
her in.

As for Johnson, the moment that his head had touched the pillows, he
fell to thinking of the awkward situation in which he was placed, the
many complications in which his heart had involved him and, finally, he
found himself wondering whether the woman whom he loved so dearly was
also lying sleepless in her rug on the floor.

And so it was not surprising that he should spring up the moment that he
heard cries from outside.

"Who's that knockin', I wonder?"

Although her voice showed no signs of distress or annoyance, the
question coming from her in a calm tone, the Girl was upon her feet
almost before she knew it. In a trice she removed all evidences that she
had been lying upon the floor, flinging the pillows and silk coverlet to
the wardrobe top.

In that same moment Johnson was standing in the parting of the curtains,
his hand raised warningly. In another moment he was over to the door
where, after taking his pistols from his overcoat pockets, he stood in a
cool, determined attitude, fingering his weapons.

"But some one's ben callin'," the Girl was saying, at the very moment
when above the loud roaring of the wind another knock was heard on the
cabin door. "Who can it be?" she asked as if to herself, and calmly went
over to the table, where she took up the candle and lit it.

Springing to her side, Johnson whispered tensely:

"Don't answer--you can't let anyone in--they wouldn't understand."

The Girl eyed him quizzically.

"Understand what?" And before he had time to explain, much less to check
her, she was standing at the window, candle in hand, peering out into
the night.

"Why, it's the posse!" she cried, wheeling round suddenly. "How did they
ever risk it in this storm?"

At these words a crushed expression appeared on Johnson's countenance;
an uncanny sense of insecurity seized him. Once more the loud, insistent
pounding was repeated, and as before, the outlaw, his hands on his guns,
commanded her not to answer.

"But what on earth do the boys want?" inquired the Girl, seemingly
oblivious to what he was saying. Indeed, so much so that as the voice of
Nick rose high above the other sounds of the night, calling,
"Min-Minnie-Girl, let us in!" she hurriedly brushed past him and yelled
through the door:

"What do you want?"

Again Johnson's hand went up imperatively.

"Don't let him come in!" he whispered.

But even then she heard not his warning, but silently, tremulously
listened to Sonora, who shouted through the door: "Say, Girl, you all
right?" And not until her answering voice had called back her assurance
that she was safe did she turn to the man at her side and whisper in a
voice that showed plainly her agitation and fear:

"Jack Rance is there! If he was to see you here--he's that jealous I'd
be afraid--" She checked her words and quickly put her ear close to the
door, the voices outside having become louder and more distinct.
Presently she spun round on her heel and announced excitedly: "Ashby's
there, too!" And again she put her ear to the door.

"Ashby!" The exclamation fell from Johnson's lips before he was aware of
it. It was impossible to deceive himself any longer--the posse had
tracked him!

"We want to come in, Girl!" suddenly rang out from the well-known voice
of Nick.

"But you can't come in!" shouted back the Girl above the noise of the
storm; then, taking advantage of a particularly loud howl of the blast,
she turned to Johnson and inquired: "What will I say? What reason will I
give?"

Serious as was Johnson's predicament, he could not suppress a smile. In
a surprisedly calm voice he told her to say that she had gone to bed.

The Girl's eyes flooded with admiration.

"Why, o' course--that's it," she said, and turned back to the door and
called through it: "I've gone to bed, Nick! I'm in bed now!"

The barkeeper's answer was lost in another loud howl of the blast. Soon
afterwards, however, the Girl made out that Nick was endeavouring to
convey to her a warning of some kind.

"You say you've come to warn me?" she cried.

"Yes, Ramerrez . . .!"

"What? Say that again?"

"Ramerrez is on the trail--"

"Ramerrez's on the trail!" repeated the Girl in tones of alarm; and not
waiting to hear further she motioned to Johnson to conceal himself
behind the curtains of the bed, muttering the while:

"I got to let 'em in--I can't keep 'em out there on such a night . . ."
He had barely reached his place of concealment when the Girl slid back
the bolts and bade the boys to come in.

Headed by Rance, the men quickly filed in and deposited their lanterns
on the floor. It was evident that they had found the storm most severe,
for their boots were soaked through and their heavy buffalo overcoats,
caps and ear-muffs were covered with snow, which all, save Rance,
proceeded to remove by shaking their shoulders and stamping their feet.
The latter, however, calmly took off his gloves, pulled out a
beautifully-creased handkerchief from his pocket, and began slowly to
flick off the snow from his elegant mink overcoat before hanging it
carefully upon a peg on the wall. After that he went over to the table
and warmed his hands over the lighted candle there. Meanwhile, Sonora,
his nose, as well as his hands which with difficulty he removed from his
heavy fur mittens, showing red and swollen from the effects of the
biting cold, had gone over to the fire, where he ejaculated:

"Ouf, I'm cold! Glad you're safe, Girl!"

"Yes, Girl, The Polka's had a narrow squeak," observed Nick, stamping
his feet which, as well as his legs, were wrapped with pieces of
blankets for added warmth.

Unconsciously, at his words, the Girl's eyes travelled to the bed; then,
drawing her robe snugly about her, and seating herself, she asked with
suppressed excitement:

"Why, Nick, what's the matter? What's--"

Rance took it upon himself to do the answering. Sauntering over to the
Girl, he drawled out:

"It takes you a long time to get up, seems to me. You haven't so much
on, either," he went on, piercing her with his eyes.

Smilingly and not in the least disconcerted by the Sheriff's remark, the
Girl picked up a rug from the floor and wound it about her knees.

"Well?" she interrogated.

"Well, we was sure that you was in trouble," put in Sonora. "My breath
jest stopped."

"Me? Me in trouble, Sonora?" A little laugh that was half-gay,
half-derisive, accompanied her words.

"See here, that man Ramerrez--" followed up Rance with a grim look.

"--feller you was dancin' with," interposed Sonora, but checked himself
instantly lest he wound the Girl's feelings.

Whereupon, Rance, with no such compunctions, became the spokesman, a
grimace of pleasure spreading over his countenance as he thought of the
unpleasant surprise he was about to impart. Stretching out his stiffened
fingers over the blaze, he said in his most brutal tones:

"Your polkying friend is none other than Ramerrez."

The Girl's eyes opened wide, but they did not look at the Sheriff. They
looked straight before her.

"I warned you, girl," spoke up Ashby, "that you should bank with us
oftener."

The Girl gave no sign of having heard him. Her slender figure seemed to
have shrunken perceptibly as she stared stupidly, uncomprehendingly,
into space.

"We say that Johnson was--" repeated Rance, impatiently.

"--what?" fell from the Girl's lips, her face pale and set.

"Are you deaf?" demanded Rance; and then, emphasising every word, he
rasped out: "The fellow you've been polkying with is the man that has
been asking people to hold up their hands."

"Oh, go on--you can't hand me out that!" Nevertheless the Girl looked
wildly about the room.

Angrily Rance strode over to her and sneered bitingly:

"You don't believe it yet, eh?"

"No, I don't believe it yet!" rapped out the Girl, laying great stress
upon the last word. "I know he isn't."

"Well, he _is_ Ramerrez, and he _did_ come to The Polka to rob it,"
retorted the Sheriff.

All at once the note of resentment in the Girl's voice became positive;
she flared back at him, though she flushed in spite of herself.

"But he didn't rob it!"

This humble roof, this rustic court, said he, Received Alcides
crowned with victory.

Scorn not, great guest, the steps where he has trod, But contemn wealth,
and imitate a god.

The next man whom we are much obliged to, both for his doctrine and
example, is the next best poet in the world to Virgil: his dear
friend Horace, who, when Augustus had desired Mecaenas to persuade
him to come and live domestically and at the same table with him,
and to be Secretary of State of the whole world under him, or rather
jointly with him (for he says, "ut nos in Epistolis scribendis
adjuvet,") could not be tempted to forsake his Sabine or Tiburtine
Manor, for so rich and so glorious a trouble.

There was never, I think, such an example as this in the world, that he
should have so much moderation and courage as to refuse an offer
of such greatness, and the Emperor so much generosity and good nature
as not to be at all offended with his refusal, but to retain still
the same kindness, and express it often to him in most friendly and
familiar letters, part of which are still extant.

If I should produce all the passages of this excellent author upon
the several subjects which I treat of in this book, I must be obliged
to translate half his works; of which I may say more truly than,
in my opinion, he did of Homer, "Qui quid sit pulchrum, quid turpe,
quid utile, quid non, plenius, et melius Chrysippo, et Crantore
dicit."

I shall content myself upon this particular theme with three only,
one out of his Odes, the other out of his Satires, the third out
of his Epistles, and shall forbear to collect the suffrages of all
other poets, which may be found scattered up and down through all
their writings, and especially in Martial's.

But I must not omit to make some excuse for the bold undertaking of
my own unskilful pencil upon the beauties of a face that has been
drawn before by so many great masters, especially that I should
dare to do it in Latin verses (though of another kind) and have the
confidence to translate them.

I can only say that I love the matter, and that ought to cover, many
faults; and that I run not to contend with those before me, but
follow to applaud them.

VIRG. GEORG. - O fortunatus nimium, etc.

A TRANSLATION OUT OF VIRGIL

Oh happy (if his happiness he knows) The country swain, on whom kind
Heaven bestows At home all riches that wise Nature needs; Whom the
just earth with easy plenty feeds.

'Tis true, no morning tide of clients comes, And fills the painted
channels of his rooms, Adoring the rich figures, as they pass, In
tapestry wrought, or cut in living brass; Nor is his wool superfluously
dyed With the dear poison of Assyrian pride:
Nor do Arabian perfumes vainly spoil The native use and sweetness
of his oil.

Instead of these, his calm and harmless life, Free from th' alarms of fear,
and storms of strife, Does with substantial blessedness abound,
And the soft wings of peace cover him round:
Through artless grots the murmuring waters glide; Thick trees both
against heat and cold provide, From whence the birds salute him;
and his ground With lowing herds, and bleating sheep does sound;
And all the rivers, and the forests nigh, Both food and game and
exercise supply.

Here a well-hardened, active youth we see, Taught the great art of cheerful
poverty.
Here, in this place alone, there still do shine Some streaks of
love, both human and divine; From hence Astraea took her flight,
and here Still her last footsteps upon earth appear.

'Tis true, the first desire which does control All the inferior wheels
that move my soul, Is, that the Muse me her high priest would make;
Into her holiest scenes of mystery take, And open there to my mind's
purged eye Those wonders which to sense the gods deny; How in the
moon such chance of shapes is found The moon, the changing world's
eternal bound.

What shakes the solid earth, what strong disease Dares trouble the
firm centre's ancient ease; What makes the sea retreat, and what
advance:

Varieties too regular for chance.
What drives the chariot on of winter's light, And stops the lazy waggon
of the night.

But if my dull and frozen blood deny To send forth spirits that raise a
soul so high; In the next place, let woods and rivers be My quiet,
though unglorious, destiny.

In life's cool vale let my low scene be laid; Cover me, gods, with
Tempe's thickest shade Happy the man, I grant, thrice happy he Who
can through gross effects their causes see:
Whose courage from the deeps of knowledge springs.

Nor vainly fears inevitable things; But does his walk of virtue
calmly go, Through all th' alarms of death and hell below.

Happy!

but next such conquerors, happy they, Whose humble life lies not in
fortune's way.

They unconcerned from their safe distant seat Behold the rods and
sceptres of the great.

The quarrels of the mighty, without fear, And the descent of foreign
troops they hear.

Nor can even Rome their steady course misguide, With all the lustre
of her perishing pride.

Them never yet did strife or avarice draw Into the noisy markets of the
law, The camps of gowned war, nor do they live By rules or forms
that many mad men give, Duty for nature's bounty they repay, And her
sole laws religiously obey.

Some with bold labour plough the faithless main; Some rougher storms
in princes' courts sustain.

Some swell up their slight sails with popular fame, Charmed with the foolish
whistlings of a name.

Some their vain wealth to earth again commit; With endless cares
some brooding o'er it sit.

Country and friends are by some wretches sold, To lie on Tyrian beds and
drink in gold; No price too high for profit can be shown; Not
brother's blood, nor hazards of their own.

Around the world in search of it they roam; It makes e'en their
Antipodes their home.

Meanwhile, the prudent husbandman is found In mutual duties striving
with his ground; And half the year he care of that does take That
half the year grateful returns does make Each fertile month does
some new gifts present, And with new work his industry content:
This the young lamb, that the soft fleece doth yield, This loads
with hay, and that with corn the field:
All sorts of fruit crown the rich autumn's pride:
And on a swelling hill's warm stony side, The powerful princely
purple of the vine, Twice dyed with the redoubled sun, does shine.

In th' evening to a fair ensuing day, With joy he sees his flocks
and kids to play, And loaded kine about his cottage stand, Inviting
with known sound the milker's hand; And when from wholesome labour
he doth come, With wishes to be there, and wished for home, He meets
at door the softest human blisses, His chaste wife's welcome, and
dear children's kisses.

When any rural holydays invite His genius forth to innocent delight, On
earth's fair bed beneath some sacred shade, Amidst his equal friends
carelessly laid, He sings thee, Bacchus, patron of the vine, The
beechen bowl foams with a flood of wine, Not to the loss of reason
or of strength.

To active games and manly sport at length Their mirth ascends, and
with filled veins they see, Who can the best at better trials be.

Such was the life the prudent Sabine chose, From such the old Etrurian
virtue rose.

Such, Remus and the god his brother led, From such firm footing
Rome grew the world's head.

Such was the life that even till now does raise The honour of poor
Saturn's golden days:
Before men born of earth and buried there, Let in the sea their
mortal fate to share, Before new ways of perishing were sought,
Before unskilful death on anvils wrought.

Before those beasts which human life sustain, By men, unless to the gods'
use, were slain.

HORAT. EPODON.
Beatus ille qui procul, etc.

Happy time man whom bounteous gods allow With his own hand paternal grounds
to plough!
Like the first golden mortals, happy he, From business and the cares
of money free!

No human storms break off at land his sleep, No loud alarms of nature on
the deep.
From all the cheats of law he lives secure, Nor does th' affronts
of palaces endure.

Sometimes the beauteous marriageable vine He to the lusty bridegroom elm
does join; Sometimes he lops the barren trees around, And grafts new
life into the fruitful wound; Sometimes he shears his flock, and
sometimes he Stores up the golden treasures of the bee.

He sees his lowing herds walk o'er the plain, Whilst neighbouring hills
low back to them again.
And when the season, rich as well as gay, All her autumnal bounty
does display, How is he pleas'd th' increasing use to see Of his
well trusted labours bend the tree; Of which large shares, on the
glad sacred days, He gives to friends, and to the gods repays.

With how much joy does he, beneath some shade By aged trees, reverend
embraces made, His careless head on the fresh green recline, His head
uncharged with fear or with design.
By him a river constantly complains, The birds above rejoice with various
strains, And in the solemn scene their orgies keep Like dreams
mixed with the gravity of sleep, Sleep which does always there for
entrance wait, And nought within against it shuts the gate.

Nor does the roughest season of the sky, Or sullen Jove, all sports
to him deny.

He runs the mazes of the nimble hare, His well-mouthed dogs' glad
concert rends the air, Or with game bolder, and rewarded more, He
drives into a toil the foaming boar; Here flies the hawk to assault,
and there the net To intercept the travelling fowl is set; And all
his malice, all his craft is shown In innocent wars, on beasts and
birds alone.

This is the life from all misfortune free, From thee, the great one,
tyrant love, from thee; And if a chaste and clean though homely
wife, Be added to the blessings of this life, - Such as the ancient
sun-burnt Sabines were, Such as Apulia, frugal still, does bear,
- Who makes her children and the house her care And joyfully the
work of life does share; Nor thinks herself too noble or too fine
To pin the sheepfold or to milk the kine; Who waits at door against
her husband come From rural duties, late, and wearied home, Where
she receives him with a kind embrace, A cheerful fire, and a more
cheerful face:
And fills the bowl up to her homely lord, And with domestic plenty
load the board.

Not all the lustful shell-fish of the sea, Dressed by the wanton
hand of luxury, Nor ortolans nor godwits nor the rest Of costly
names that glorify a feast, Are at the princely tables better cheer
Than lamb and kid, lettuce and olives, here.

THE COUNTRY MOUSE.
A Paraphrase upon Horace, II Book, Satire vi.

At the large foot of a fair hollow tree, Close to ploughed ground,
seated commodiously, His ancient and hereditary house, There dwelt
a good substantial country mouse:
Frugal, and grave, and careful of the main, Yet one who once did
nobly entertain A city mouse, well coated, sleek, and gay, A mouse
of high degree, which lost his way, Wantonly walking forth to take
the air, And arrived early, and alighted there, For a day's lodging.

The good hearty host (The ancient plenty of his hall to boast) Did
all the stores produce that might excite, With various tastes, the
courtier's appetite.

Fitches and beans, peason, and oats, and wheat, And a large chestnut,
the delicious meat Which Jove himself, were he a mouse, would eat.

And for a haut goust there was mixed with these The swerd of bacon, and
the coat of cheese, The precious relics, which at harvest he Had
gathered from the reapers' luxury.

"Freely," said he, "fall on, and never spare, The bounteous gods will for
to-morrow care." And thus at ease on beds of straw they lay, And to
their genius sacrificed the day.

Yet the nice guest's epicurean mind (Though breeding made him civil
seem, and kind) Despised this country feast, and still his thought
Upon the cakes and pies of London wrought.

"Your bounty and civility," said he, "Which I'm surprised in these rude
parts to see, Show that the gods have given you a mind Too noble for
the fate which here you find.

Why should a soul, so virtuous and so great, Lose itself thus in
an obscure retreat?

Let savage beasts lodge in a country den, You should see towns, and manners
know, and men; And taste the generous luxury of the court, Where all
the mice of quality resort; Where thousand beauteous shes about
you move, And by high fare are pliant made to love.

We all ere long must render up our breath, No cave or hole can
shelter us from death.

Since life is so uncertain and so short, Let's spend it all in
feasting and in sport.

Come, worthy sir, come with me, and partake All the great things that
mortals happy make."

Alas, what virtue hath sufficient arms To oppose bright honour and soft
pleasure's charms?

What wisdom can their magic force repel?

It draws the reverend hermit from his cell.

It was the time, when witty poets tell, That Phoebus into Thetis'
bosom fell:
She blushed at first, and then put out the light, And drew the
modest curtains of the night.

Plainly the truth to tell, the sun was set, When to the town our
wearied travellers get.

To a lord's house, as lordly as can be, Made for the use of pride and
luxury, They some; the gentle courtier at the door Stops, and will hardly
enter in before; - But 'tis, sir, your command, and being so, I'm
sworn t' obedience--and so in they go.

Behind a hanging in a spacious room (The richest work of Mortlake's
noble loom) They wait awhile their wearied limbs to rest, Till
silence should invite them to their feast, About the hour that
Cynthia's silver light Had touched the pale meridies of the night,
At last, the various supper being done, It happened that the company
was gone Into a room remote, servants and all, To please their noble
fancies with a ball.

Our host leads forth his stranger, and does find All fitted to the
bounties of his mind.

Still on the table half-filled dishes stood, And with delicious
bits the floor was strewed; The courteous mouse presents him with
the best, And both with fat varieties are blest.
The industrious peasant everywhere does range, And thanks the gods
for his life's happy change.
Lo, in the midst of a well-freighted pie They both at last glutted and
wanton lie, When see the sad reverse of prosperous fate, And what fierce
storms on mortal glories wait!
With hideous noise, down the rude servants come, Six dogs before run
barking into th' room; The wretched gluttons fly with wild affright,
And hate the fulness which retards their flight.

Our trembling peasant wishes now in vain.
That rocks and mountains covered him again.
Oh, how the change of his poor life, he cursed!
"This, of all lives," said he, "is sure the worst.

Give me again, ye gods, my cave and wood; With peace, let tares and acorns
be my food."

A Paraphrase upon the Eightieth Epistle of the First Book of Horace.
HORACE TO FUSCUS ARISTIUS.

Health, from the lover of the country, me, Health, to the lover of the
city, thee, A difference in our souls, this only proves, In all
things else, we agree like married doves.
But the warm nest and crowded dove house thou Dost like; I loosely fly
from bough to bough; And rivers drink, and all the shining day,
Upon fair trees or mossy rocks I play; In fine, I live and reign when I
retire From all that you equal with heaven admire.
Like one at last from the priest's service fled, Loathing the honied cakes,
I long for bread.
Would I a house for happiness erect, Nature alone should be the
architect.

She'd build it more convenient than great, And doubtless in the country
choose her seat.

Is there a place doth better helps supply Against the wounds of winter's
cruelty?
Is there an air that gentler does assuage The mad celestial dog's or
lion's rage?
Is it not there that sleep (and only there) Nor noise without, nor
cares within does fear?

Does art through pipes a purer water bring Than that which nature
strains into a spring?

Can all your tapestries, or your pictures, show More beauties than
in herbs and flowers do grow?

Fountains and trees our wearied pride do please, Even in the midst
of gilded palaces.

And in your towns that prospect gives delight Which opens round the
country to our sight.
Men to the good, from which they rashly fly, Return at last, and their
wild luxury Does but in vain with those true joys contend Which
nature did to mankind recommend.

The man who changes gold for burnished brass, Or small right gems
for larger ones of glass, Is not, at length, more certain to be
made Ridiculous and wretched by the trade, Than he who sells a solid
good to buy The painted goods of pride and vanity.

If thou be wise, no glorious fortune choose, Which 't is but pain to
keep, yet grief to lose.
For when we place even trifles in the heart, With trifles too unwillingly
we part.
An humble roof, plain bed, and homely board, More clear, untainted pleasures
do afford Than all the tumult of vain greatness brings To kings, or
to the favourites of kings.
The horned deer, by nature armed so well, Did with the horse in
common pasture dwell; And when they fought, the field it always
won, Till the ambitious horse begged help of man, And took the
bridle, and thenceforth did reign Bravely alone, as lord of all the
plain:
But never after could the rider get From off his back, or from his
mouth the bit.

So they, who poverty too much do fear, To avoid that weight, a
greater burden bear; That they might power above their equals have,
To cruel masters they themselves enslave.

For gold, their liberty exchanged we see, That fairest flower which
crowns humanity.

And all this mischief does upon them light, Only because they know not how
aright That great, but secret, happiness to prize, That's laid up in a
little, for the wise:
That is the best and easiest estate Which to a man sits close, but
not too strait.

'Tis like a shoe: it pinches, and it burns, Too narrow; and too
large it overturns.

My dearest friend, stop thy desires at last, And cheerfully enjoy the
wealth thou hast.

And, if me still seeking for more you see, Chide and reproach, despise and
laugh at me.
Money was made, not to command our will, But all our lawful pleasures
to fulfil.
Shame and woe to us, if we our wealth obey; The horse doth with the
horseman run away.

THE COUNTRY LIFE.

Libr. 4, Plantarum.

Blest be the man (and blest he is) whom e'er (Placed far out of the
roads of hope or fear) A little field and little garden feeds; The field
gives all that frugal nature needs, The wealthy garden liberally
bestows All she can ask, when she luxurious grows.

The specious inconveniences, that wait Upon a life of business and
of state, He sees (nor does the sight disturb his rest) By fools
desired, by wicked men possessed.

Thus, thus (and this deserved great Virgil's praise) The old Corycian
yeoman passed his days, Thus his wise life Abdolonymus spent:
The ambassadors which the great emperor sent To offer him a crown,
with wonder found The reverend gardener hoeing of his ground; Unwillingly
and slow, and discontent, From his loved cottage to a throne he went.

And oft he stopped in his triumphant way, And oft looked back, and oft was
heard to say, Not without sighs, "Alas!

I there forsake A happier kingdom than I go to take." Thus Aglaus
(a man unknown to men, But the gods knew, and therefore loved him then)
Thus lived obscurely then without a name, Aglaus, now consigned to
eternal fame.
For Gyges, the rich king, wicked and great, Presumed at wise Apollo's
Delphic seat, Presumed to ask, "O thou, the whole world's eye,
Seest thou a man that happier is than I?" The god, who scorned to flatter
man, replied, "Aglaus happier is."
Slowly the Girl rose to her feet and faced him, aversion and pity
struggling for mastery. Then, as she noted the spot where he was now
standing, his great height bringing him so near to the low boards of the
loft where her lover was lying that it seemed as though he must hear the
wounded man's breathing, all other feelings were swept away by
overwhelming fear. With the one thought that she must get rid of
him,--do anything, say anything, but get rid of him quickly, she forced
herself forward, with extended hand, and said in a voice that held out
new promise:

"Good-night. Jack Rance,--good-night!"

Rance seized the hand with an almost fierce gladness in both his own,
his keen glance hungrily striving to read her face. Then, suddenly, he
released her, drawing back his hand with a quick sharpness.

"Why, look at my hand! There's blood on it!" he said.

And even as he spoke, under the yellow flare of the lamp, the Girl saw a
second drop of blood fall at her feet. Like a flash, the terrible
significance of it came upon her. Only by self-violence could she keep
her glance from rising, tell-tale, to the boards above.

"Oh, I'm so sorry," she heard herself saying contritely, all the time
desperately groping to invent a reason; at length, she added futilely:
"I must have scratched you."

Rance looked puzzled, staring at the spatter of red as though
hypnotised.

"No, there's no scratch there," he contended, wiping off the blood with
his handkerchief.

"Oh, yes, there is," insisted the Girl tremulously; "that is, there will
be in the mornin'. You'll see in the mornin' that there'll be--" She
stopped and stared in frozen terror at the sinister face of the Sheriff,
who was coolly watching his handkerchief turn from white to red under
the slow rain of blood from the loft above.

"Oho!" he emitted sardonically, stepping back and pointing his gun
towards the loft. "So, he's up there!"

The Girl's fingers clutched his arm, dragging desperately.

"No, he isn't, Jack--no, he isn't!" she iterated in blind, mechanical
denial.

With an abrupt movement, Rance flung her violently from him, made a grab
at the suspended ladder and lowered it into position; then, deaf to the
Girl's pleadings, harshly ordered Johnson to come down, meanwhile
covering the source of the blood-drops with his gun.

"Oh, wait,--wait a minute!" begged the Girl helplessly. What would
happen if he couldn't obey the summons? He had spent himself in his
climb to safety. Perhaps he was unconscious, slowly bleeding to death!
But even as she tortured herself with fears, the boards above creaked as
though a heavy body was dragging itself slowly across them. Johnson was
evidently doing his best to reach the top of the ladder; but he did not
move quickly enough to suit the Sheriff.

"Come down, or I'll--"

"Oh, just a minute, Jack, just a minute!" broke in the Girl frantically.
This Horace calls deceiving the world, and in another place uses
the same phrase.

Secretum iter et fallentis semita vitae.
The secret tracks of the deceiving life.

It is very elegant in Latin, but our English word will hardly bear
up to that sense, and therefore Mr.

Broome translates it very well:

Or from a life, led as it were by stealth.

Yet we say in our language, a thing deceives our sight, when it passes
before us unperceived, and we may say well enough out of the same
author:

Sometimes with sleep, sometimes with wine we strive The cares of life and
troubles to deceive.

But that is not to deceive the world, but to deceive ourselves, as Quintilian
says, Vitam fallere, To draw on still, and amuse, and deceive our
life, till it be advanced insensibly to the fatal period, and fall into
that pit which Nature hath prepared for it.
The meaning of all this is no more than that most vulgar saying,
Bene qui latuit, bene vixit, He has lived well, who has lain well hidden.
Which, if it be a truth, the world, I'll swear, is sufficiently
deceived.

For my part, I think it is, and that the pleasantest condition of life,
is in incognito. What a brave privilege is it to be free from all
contentions, from all envying or being envied, from receiving and
from paying all kind of ceremonies?

It is in my mind a very delightful pastime, for two good and agreeable
friends to travel up and down together in places where they are
by nobody known, nor know anybody.

It was the case of AEneas and his Achates, when they walked invisibly
about the fields and streets of Carthage, Venus herself

A veil of thickened air around them cast, That none might know, or see
them as they passed.

The common story of Demosthenes's confession that he had taken great
pleasure in hearing of a Tanker-woman say as he passed, "This is that
Demosthenes," is wonderful ridiculous from so solid an orator.
I myself have often met with that temptation to vanity (if it were
any), but am so far from finding it any pleasure, that it only makes
me run faster from the place, till I get, as it were, out of sight
shot. Democritus relates, and in such a manner, as if he gloried in the
good fortune and commodity of it, that when he came to Athens,
nobody there did so much as take notice of him; and Epicurus lived
there very well, that is, lay hid many years in his gardens, so
famous since that time, with his friend Metrodorus: after whose
death, making in one of his letters a kind commemoration of the
happiness which they two had enjoyed together, he adds at last,
that he thought it no disparagement to those great felicities of
their life, that in the midst of the most talked of and talking
country in the world, they had lived so long, not only without fame,
but almost without being heard of.

And yet within a very few years afterward, there were no two names
of men more known or more generally celebrated.

If we engage into a large acquaintance and various familiarities,
we set open our gates to the invaders of most of our time: we
expose our life to a Quotidian Ague of frigid impertinences, which
would make a wise man tremble to think of.
Now, as for being known much by sight, and pointed at, I cannot
comprehend the honour that lies in that.But if you
lose,--this man settin' between us is mine--mine to do with as I please,
an' you shut up an' lose like a gentleman."

"You must be crazy about him!" The words seemed wrung from the Sheriff
against his will.

"That's my business!" came like a knife-cut from the Girl.

"Do you know you're talkin' to the Sheriff?"

"I'm talkin' to Jack Rance, the gambler," she amended evenly.

"You're right,--and he's just fool enough to take you up," returned
Rance with sudden decision. He looked around him for a chair; there was
one near the table, and the Girl handed it to him. With one hand he
swung it into place before the table, while with the other he jerked off
the table-cover, and flung it across the room. Johnson neither moved nor
groaned, as the edge slid from beneath his nerveless arms.

"You and the cyards have got into my blood. I'll take you up," he said,
seating himself.

"Your word," demanded the Girl, leaning over the table, but still
standing.

"I can lose like a gentleman," returned Rance curtly; then, with a swift
seizure of her hand, he continued tensely, in tones that made the Girl
shrink and whiten, "I'm hungry for you, Min, and if I win, I'll take it
out on you as long as I have breath."

A moment later, the Girl had freed her hand from his clasp, and was
saying evenly, "Fix the lamp." And while the Sheriff was adjusting the
wick that had begun to flare up smokily, she swiftly left the room,
saying casually over her shoulder that she was going to fetch something
from the closet.

"What you goin' to get?" he called after her suspiciously. The Girl made
no reply. Rance made no movement to follow her, but instead drew a pack
of cards from his pocket and began to shuffle them with practiced
carelessness. But when a minute had passed and the girl had not
returned, he called once more, with growing impatience, to know what was
keeping her.

"I'm jest gettin' the cards an' kind o' steadyin' my nerves," she
answered somewhat queerly through the doorway. The next moment she had
returned, quickly closing the closet door behind her, blew out her
candle, and laying a pack of cards upon the table, said significantly:

"We'll use a fresh deck. There's a good deal depends on this, Jack." She
seated herself opposite the Sheriff and so close to the unconscious form
of the man she loved that from time to time her left arm brushed his
shoulder.

Rance, without protest other than a shrug, took up his own deck of
cards, wrapped them in a handkerchief, and stowed them away in his
pocket. It was the Girl who spoke first:

"Are you ready?"

"Ready? Yes. I'm ready. Cut for deal."

With unfaltering fingers, the Girl cut. Of the man beside her, dead or
dying, she must not, dared not think. For the moment she had become one
incarnate purpose: to win, to win at any cost,--nothing else mattered.

Rance won the deal; and taking up the pack he asked, as he shuffled:

"A case of show-down?"

"Show-down."

"Cut!" once more peremptorily from Rance; and then, when she had cut,
one question more: "Best two out of three?"

"Best two out of three." Swift, staccato sentences, like the rapid
crossing of swords, the first preliminary interchange of strokes before
the true duel begins.

Rance dealt the cards. Before either looked at them, he glanced across
at the Girl and asked scornfully, perhaps enviously:

"What do you see in him?"

"What do you see in me?" she flashed back instantly, as she picked up
her cards; and then: "What have you got?"

"King high," declared the gambler.

"King high here," echoed the Girl.

"Jack next," and he showed his hand.

"Queen next," and the Girl showed hers.

"You've got it," conceded the gambler, easily. Then, in another tone,
"but you're making a mistake--"

"If I am, it's my mistake! Cut!"

Rance cut the cards. The Girl dealt them steadily. Then,

"What have you got?" she asked.

"One pair,--aces. What have you?"

"Nothing," throwing her cards upon the table.

With just a flicker of a smile, the Sheriff once more gathered up the
pack, saying smoothly:

"Even now,--we're even."

"It's the next hand that tells, Jack, ain't it?"

"Yes."

"It's the next hand that tells me,--I'm awfully sorry,--" the words
seemed to come awkwardly; her glance was troubled, almost contrite, "at
any rate, I want to say jest now that no matter how it comes out--"

"Cut!" interjected Rance mechanically.

"--that I'll always think of you the best I can," completed the Girl
with much feeling. "An' I want you to do the same for me."

Silently, inscrutably, the gambler dealt the ten cards, one by one. But
as the Girl started to draw hers toward her, his long, thin fingers
reached across once more and closed not ungently upon hand and cards.

"The last hand, Girl!" he reminded her. "And I've a feeling that I
win,--that in one minute I'll hold you in my arms." And still covering
her fingers with his own, he stole a glance at his cards.

"I win," he announced, briefly, his eyes alone betraying the inward
fever. He dropped the cards before her on the table. "Three kings,--and
the _last hand_!"

Suddenly, as though some inward cord had snapped under the strain, the
Girl collapsed. Limply she slid downward in her chair, one groping hand
straying aimlessly to her forehead, then dropping of its own weight.
"Quick, Jack,--I'm ill,--git me somethin'!" The voice trailed off to
nothingness as the drooping eyelids closed.

In real consternation, the Sheriff sprang to his feet. In one sweeping
glance his alert eye caught the whisky bottle upon the mantel. "All
right, Girl, I'll fix you in no time," he said cheeringly over his
shoulder. But where the deuce did she keep her tumblers? The next minute
he was groping for them in the dark of the adjoining closet and softly
cursing himself for his own slowness.

Instantaneously, the Girl came to life. The unturned cards upon the
table vanished with one lightning movement; the Girl's hand disappeared
beneath her skirts, raised for the moment knee-high; then the same,
swift reverse motion, and the cards were back in place, while the Girl's
eyes trembled shut again, to hide the light of triumph in them. A smile
flickered on her lips as the Sheriff returned with the glass and bottle.

"Never mind,--I'm better now," her lips shaped weakly.

The Sheriff set down the bottle, and put his arm around the Girl with a
rough tenderness.

"Oh, you only fainted because you lost," he told her.

Averting her gaze, the Girl quietly disengaged herself, rose to her feet
and turned her five cards face upwards.

"No, Jack, it's because I've won,--three aces and a pair."

The Sheriff shot one glance at the girl, keen, searching. Then, without
so much as the twitch of an eyelid, he accepted his defeat, took a cigar
from his pocket and lit it, the flame of the match revealing no
expression other than the nonchalance for which he was noted; then,
picking up his hat and coat he walked slowly to the door. Here he halted
and wished her a polite good-night--so ceremoniously polite that at any
other time it would have compelled her admiration.

Pale as death and almost on the point of collapse, the Girl staggered
back to the table where the wounded road agent was half-sitting,
half-lying.

Thrusting her hand now into the stocking from which she had obtained the
winning, if incriminating, cards, she drew forth those that remained and
scattered them in the air, crying out hysterically:

"Three aces an' a pair an' a stockin' full o' pictures--but his life
belongs to me!"


XIV.


Conscious-stricken at the fraud that she had imposed upon the gambler,
the Girl lived a lifetime in the moments that followed his departure.
With her face buried in her hands she stood lost in contemplation of her
shameful secret.

A sound--the sound of a man in great pain checked her hysterical sobs.
Dazed, she passed her hand over her face as if to clear away the dark
shades that were obstructing her vision. Another groan--and like a flash
she was down on her knees lavishing endearments upon the road agent.

Never before, it is true, had the Girl had any experience in gun-shot
wounds. She had played the part of nurse, however, more than once when
the boys met with accidents at the mines. For the women of the
California camps at that time had endless calls upon them. It was a
period for sacrifices innumerable, and help and sympathy were never
asked that they were not freely given. So, if the Girl did not know the
very best thing to do, she knew, at least, what not to do, and it was
only a few minutes before she had cut the coat from his back.

The next thing to be done--the dragging of the unconscious man to the
bed--was hard work, of course, but being strong of arm, as well as stout
of heart, she at last accomplished it.

Now she cut away his shirt in order to find the wound, which proved to
be in his breast. Quickly then she felt with her fingers in an endeavour
to find the ball, but in this she was unsuccessful. So after a moment's
deliberation she made up her mind that the wound was a flesh one and
that the ball was anywhere but in the man's body--a diagnosis that was
largely due to the cheerful optimism of her nature and which,
fortunately, proved to be true.

Presently she went to a corner of the room and soon returned with a
basin of water and some hastily torn bandages. For a good fifteen
minutes after that she washed the gash and, finally, bandaged it as well
as she knew how. And now, having done all that her knowledge or instinct
prompted, she drew up a chair and prepared to pass the rest of the night
in watching by his side.

For an hour or so he slept the sleep of unconsciousness. In the room not
a sound could be heard, but outside the storm still roared and raged. It
was anything but an easy or cheerful situation: Here she was alone with
a wounded, if not dying, man; and she well knew that, unless there came
an abatement in the fury of the storm, it might be days before anyone
could climb the mountain. True, the Indians were not far off, but like
as not they would remain in their wigwam until the sun came forth again.
In the matter of food there was a scant supply, but probably enough to
tide them over until communication could be had with The Polka.

For three days she watched over him, and all the time the storm
continued. On the third day he became delirious, and that was the night
of her torture. Despite a feeling that she was taking an unfair
advantage of him, the Girl strained her ears to catch a name which, in
his delirium, was constantly on his lips; but she could not make it out.
All that she knew was that it was not her name that he spoke, and it
pained her. She had given him absolute faith and trust and, already, she
was overwhelmed with the fierce flames of jealousy. It was a new
sensation, this being jealous of anyone, and it called forth a
passionate resentment. In such moments she would rise and flee to the
other end of the room until the whispered endearments had ceased. Then
she would draw near again with flushes of shame on her cheeks for having
heeded the sayings of an irresponsible person, and she would take his
head in her lap and, caressing him the while, would put cold towels on
his heated brow.

Dawn of the fourth day saw the Girl still pale and anxious, though
despair had entirely left her; for the storm was over and colour and
speech had come back to the man early that morning. Love and good
nursing, not to speak of some excellent whisky that she happened to have
stored away in her cabin, had pulled him through. With a sigh of relief
she threw herself down on the rug for a much-needed rest.

The man woke just before the sun rose. His first thought, that he was
home in the foothills, was dissipated by the sight of the snow ranges.
Through the window of the cabin, as far as the eye could see, nothing of
green was visible. Snow was everywhere; everything was white, save at
the eastern horizon where silver was fast changing into rose and rose to
a fiery red as the fast-rising sun sent its shafts over the snow-coated
mountains.

And now there came to him a full realisation of what had happened and
where he was. To his amazement, though, he was almost without pain. That
his wound had been dressed he was, of course, well aware for when he
attempted to draw back still further the curtain at the window the
movement strained the tight bandage, and he was instantly made conscious
of a twinge of pain.

Nevertheless, he persevered, for he wisely decided that it would be well
to reconnoitre, to familiarise himself, as much as possible, with the
lay of the land and find out whether the trail that he had followed to
reach the cabin which, he recalled, was perched high up above a ravine,
was the only means of communication with the valley below. It was a
useless precaution, for the snow would have wholly obliterated any such
trail had there been one and, soon realising the fact, he fell back
exhausted by his effort on the pillows.

A half hour passed and the man began to grow restless. He had, of
course, no idea whatever of the length of time he had been in the cabin,
and he knew that he must be thinking of an immediate escape. In
desperation, he tried to get out of bed, but the task was beyond his
power. At that a terrible feeling of hopelessness assailed him. His only
chance was to reach the valley where he had little fear of capture; but
wounded, as he was, that seemed out of the question, and he saw himself
caught like a rat in a trap. In an access of rage at the situation in
which he was placed he made another effort to raise himself up on his
elbow and peer through the window at the Sierras. The noise that he
made, slight though it was, awoke the Girl. In an instant she was at his
bedside drawing the curtain over the window.

"What you thinkin' of?" she asked. "At any moment--jest as soon as the
trail can be cleared--there'll be someone of the boys up here to see how
I've pulled through. They mustn't see you . . ."

Forcibly, but with loving tenderness, she put him back among his pillows
and seated herself by the bed. An awkward silence followed. For now that
the man was in his right senses it was borne in upon her that he might
remember that she had fed him, given him drink and fondled him. It was a
situation embarrassing to both. Neither knew just what to say or how to
begin. At length, the voice from the bed spoke:

"How long have I been here?"

"Three days."

"And you have nursed me all that--"

"You mustn't talk," warned the girl. "It's dangerous in more ways than
one. But if you keep still no one'll suspect that you're here."

"But I must know what happened," he insisted with increasing excitement.
"I remember nothing after I came down the ladder. The Sheriff--Rance--
what's become . . .?"

The Girl chided him with gentle authority.

"You keep perfectly still--you mustn't say nothin' 'til you've rested.
Everythin's all right an' you needn't worry a bit." But then seeing that
he chafed at this, she added: "Well, then, I'll tell you all there is to
know." And then followed an account of the happenings of that night. It
was not a thoroughly truthful tale, for in her narrative she told him
only what she thought was necessary and good for him to know, keeping
the rest to herself. And when she had related all that there was to tell
she insisted upon his going to sleep again, giving him no opportunity
whatsoever to speak, since she left his bedside after drawing the
curtains.

Unwillingly the man lay back and tried to force himself to be patient;
but he fretted at the enforced quietude and, as a result, sleep refused
to come to him. From time to time he could hear the Girl moving
noiselessly about the room. The knowledge that she was there gave him a
sense of security, and he began to let his thoughts dwell upon her. No
longer did he doubt but what she was a real influence now; and the
thought had the effect of making him keenly alive to what his life had
been. It was not a pleasant picture that he looked back upon, now that
he had caught a glimpse of what life might mean with the Girl at his
side. From the moment that he had taken her in his arms he realised to
the full that his cherished dream had come true; he realised, also, that
there was now but one answer to the question of keeping to the oath
given to his father, and that was that gratitude--for he had guessed
rightly, though she had not told him, that she had saved him from
capture by the Sheriff and his posse--demanded that he should put an end
to his vocation and devote his life henceforth to making her happy.

Once or twice while thus communing with himself he fancied that he heard
voices. It seemed to him that he recognised Nick's voice. But whoever it
was, he spoke in whispers, and though the wounded man strove to hear, he
was unsuccessful.

After a while he heard the door close and then the tension was somewhat
relaxed, for he knew that she was keeping his presence in her cabin a
secret with all the wiles of a clever and loving woman. And more and
more he determined to gain an honoured place for her in some
community--an honoured place for himself and her. Vague, very vague, of
course, were the new purposes and plans that had so suddenly sprang up
because of her influence, but the desire to lead a clean life had
touched his heart, and since his old calling had never been pleasing to
him, he did not for a moment doubt his ability to succeed.

The morning was half gone when the Girl returned to her patient. Then,
in tones that did her best to make her appear free from anxiety, she
told him that it was the barkeeper, as he had surmised, with whom she
had been talking and that she had been obliged to take him into her
confidence. The man made no comment, for the situation necessarily was
in her hands, and he felt that she could be relied upon not to make any
mistake. Four people, he was told, knew of his presence in the cabin. So
far as Rance was concerned she had absolute faith in his honour, gambler
though he was; there was nothing that Nick would not do for her; and as
for the Indians, the secret was sure to be kept by them, unless
Jackrabbit got hold of some whisky--a contingency not at all likely, for
Nick had promised to see to that. In fact, all could be trusted to be as
silent as the grave.

The invalid had listened intently; nevertheless, he sighed:

"It's hard to lie here. I don't want to be caught _now_."

The Girl smiled at the emphasis on the last word, for she knew that it
referred to her. Furthermore, she had divined pretty well what had been
his thoughts concerning his old life; but, being essentially a woman of
action and not words, she said nothing.

A moment or so later he asked her to read to him. The Girl looked as she
might have looked if he had asked her to go to the moon.
Notwithstanding, she got up and, presently, returned with a lot of old
school-books, which she solemnly handed over for his inspection.

The invalid smiled at the look of earnestness on the Girl's face.

"Not these?" he gently inquired. "Where is the Dante you were telling me
about?"

Once more the Girl went over to the book-shelf; when she came back she
handed him a volume, which he glanced over carefully before showing her
the place where he wished her to begin to read to him.

At first the Girl was embarrassed and stumbled badly. But on seeing that
he seemed not to notice it she gained courage and acquitted herself
creditably, at least, so she flattered herself, for she could detect, as
she looked up from time to time, no expression other than pleasure on
his face. It may be surmised, though, that Johnson had not merely chosen
a page at random; on the contrary, when the book was in his hand he had
quickly found the lines which the Girl had, so to say, paraphrased, and
he was intensely curious to see how they would appeal to her. But now,
apparently, she saw nothing in the least amusing in them, nor in other
passages fully as sentimental. In fact, no comment of any kind was
forthcoming from her--though Johnson was looking for it and, to tell the
truth, was somewhat disappointed--when she read that Dante had probably
never spoken more than twice to Beatrice and his passion had no other
food than the mists of his own dreaming. However, it was different
when,--pausing before each word after the manner of a child,--she came
to a passage of the poet's, and read:

"'In that moment I say most truly that the spirit of life, which hath
its dwelling in the most secret chambers of the heart, began to tremble
so violently that the least pulse of my body shook herewith, and in the
trembling it said these words: "Here is a deity stronger than I who,
coming shall rule over me."'"

At that the Girl let the book fall and, going down on her knees and
taking both his hands in hers, she raised to him a look so full of
adoring worship that he felt himself awed before it.

"That 'ere Dante ain't so far off after all. I know jest how he feels.
Oh, I ain't fit to read to you, to talk to you, to kiss you."

Nevertheless, he saw to it that she did.

After this he told her about the Inferno, and she listened eagerly to
his description of the unfortunate characters, though she declared, when
he explained some of the crimes that they had committed, that they "Got
only what was rightly comin' to them."

The patient could hardly suppress his amusement. Dante was discarded and
instead they told each other how much love there was in that little
cabin on Cloudy Mountain.

The days that followed were all much like this one. Food was brought up
from The Polka and, by degrees, the patient's strength came back. And it
was but natural that he became so absorbed in his newly-found happiness
that he gradually was losing all sense of danger. Late one night,
however, when he was asleep, an incident happened that warned the Girl
that it was necessary to get her lover away just as soon as he was able
to ride a horse.

Lying on the rug in front of the fire she had been thinking of him when,
suddenly, her quick ear, more than ever alert in these days, caught the
sound of a stealthy footstep outside the cabin. With no fear whatever
except in relation to the discovery of her lover, the Girl went
noiselessly to the window and peered out into the darkness. A man was
making signs that he wished to speak with her. For a moment she stood
watching in perplexity, but almost instantly her instinct told her that
one of that race, for she believed the man to be a Mexican, would never
dare to come to her cabin at that time of night unless it was on a
friendly errand. So putting her face close to the pane to reassure
herself that she had not been mistaken in regard to his nationality, she
then went to the door and held it wide open for the man to enter, at the
same time putting her finger to her lips as a sign that he should be
very still.

"What are you doin' here? What do you want?" she asked in a low voice,
at the same time leading him to the side of the room further away from
her lover.

Jose Castro's first words were in Spanish, but immediately perceiving
that he failed to make her understand, he nodded comprehendingly, and
said:

"All righta--I espeak Engleesh--I am Jose Castro too well known to the
_Maestro_. I want to see 'im."

The Girl's intuition told her that a member of the band stood before
her, and she regarded him suspiciously. Not that she believed that he
was disloyal and had come there with hostile intent, but because she
felt that she must be absolutely sure of her ground before she revealed
the fact that Johnson was in the cabin. She let some moments pass before
she replied:

"I don't know nothin' about your master. Who is he?"

An indulgent smile crossed the Mexican's face.

"That ver' good to tella other peoples; but I know 'im here too much.
You trusta me--me quita safe."

All this was said with many gestures and an air that convinced the Girl
that he was speaking the truth. But since she deemed it best that the
invalid should be kept from any excitement, she resolved to make the
Mexican divulge to her the nature of his important errand.

"How do you know he's here?" she began warily. "What do you want 'im
for?"

The Mexican's shifty eyes wandered all over the room as if to make
certain that no inimical ears were listening; then he whispered:

"I tella you something--you lika the _Maestro_?"

Unconsciously the Girl nodded, which evidently satisfied the Mexican,
for he went on:

"You thinka well of him--yees. Now I tella you something. The man Pedro
'e no good. 'E wisha the reward--the money for Ramerrez. 'E and the
woman--woman no good--tell Meester Ashby they thinka 'im 'ere."

The Girl felt the colour leave her cheeks, though she made a gesture for
him to proceed.

"Pedro not 'ere any longer," smiled the Mexican. "Me senda 'im to the
devil. Serva 'im right."

"An' the woman?" gasped the Girl.

"She gone--got away--Monterey by this time," replied Castro with evident
disappointment. "But Meester Ashby 'e know too much--'ees men everywhere
searched the camp--no safa 'ere now. To-norrow--" Castro stopped short;
the next instant with a joyful gleam in his eyes he cried out:
"_Maestro_!"

"Castro's right, Girl," said Johnson, who had waked and heard the
Mexican's last words; "it is not safe a moment more here, and I must
go."

With a little cry of loving protest the Girl abruptly left the men to
talk over the situation and sought the opposite side of the room. There,
her eyes half-closed and her lips pressed tightly together she gave
herself up to her distressing fears. After a while it was made plain to
her that she was being brought into the conversation, for every now and
then Castro would look curiously at her; at length, as if it had been
determined by them that nothing should be undertaken without her advice,
Johnson, followed by his subordinate, came over to her and related in
detail all the startling information that Castro had brought.

Quietly the Girl listened and, in the end, it was agreed between them
that it would be safer for the men not to leave the cabin together, but
that Castro should go at once with the understanding that he should
procure horses and wait for the master at a given point across the
ravine. It was decided, too, that there was not a moment to be lost in
putting their plan into execution. In consequence, Castro immediately
took his departure.

The hour that passed before the time set for Johnson to leave the cabin
was a most trying one for both of them. It was not so hard on the man,
of course, for he was excited over the prospect of escaping; but the
Girl, whose mind was filled with the dread of what might happen to him,
had nothing to sustain her. Despite his objection, she had stipulated
that, with Jackrabbit as a companion, she should accompany him to the
outskirts of the camp. And so, at the moment of departure, throwing
about her a cloak of some rough material, she went up to her lover and
said with a quiver in her voice:

"I'm ready, Dick, but I'm a-figurin' that I can't let you go alone--you
jest got to take me below with you, an' that's all there is to it."

The man shook his head.

"There's very little risk, believe me. I'll join Castro and ride all
through the night. I'll be down below in no time at all. But we must be
going, dear."

The man passed through the door first. But when it came the Girl's turn
she hesitated, for she had seen a dark shadow flit by the window. It was
as if someone had been stealthily watching there. In another moment,
however, it turned out to be Jackrabbit and, greatly relieved, the Girl
whispered to Johnson that he was to descend the trail between the Indian
and herself, and that on no account was he to utter a word until she
gave him permission.

For another moment or so they stood in silence; Johnson, appreciating
fully what were the Girl's feelings, did not dare to whisper even a word
of encouragement to her. At last, she ordered the Indian to lead the
way, and they started.

The trail curved and twisted around the mountain, and in places they had
to use the greatest care lest a misstep should carry them over a
precipice with a drop of hundreds of feet. It was a perilous descent,
inasmuch as the path was covered with snow. Moreover, it was necessary
that as little noise as possible should be made while they were making
their way past the buildings of the camp below, for the Mexican had not
been wrong when he stated that Ashby's men were quartered at, or in the
immediate vicinity of, The Palmetto. He did more. He went to the Khedive
with Kingsley's whole case. He spoke as he had seldom spoken, and he
secured a bond from Ismail, which might not be broken. He also secured
three thousand pounds of the Khedive's borrowings from Europe, on
Kingsley's promise that it should be returned five-fold.

That was how Kingsley got started in the world again, how he went mining
in the desert afar, where pashas and mamours could not worry him.

The secret of his success was purely Oriental. He became a slave-owner.

He built up a city of the desert round him.

He was its ruler.

Slavery gave him steady untaxed labour. A rifle-magazine gave him
security against marauding tribes, his caravans were never over
powered; his blacks were his own.

He had a way with them; they thought him the greatest man in the world.
Now, at last, he was rich enough. His mines were worked out, too, and
the market was not so good; he had supplied it too well. Dicky's thousand
had brought him five thousand, and Ismail's three thousand had become
fifteen thousand, and another twenty thousand besides.

For once the Khedive had found a kind of taxation, of which he got the
whole proceeds, not divided among many as heretofore. He got it all. He
made Kingsley a Bey, and gave him immunity from all other imposts
or taxation.

Nothing but an Egyptian army could have removed him from his
desert-city.

Now, he was coming back--to-night at ten o'clock he would appear at the
Khedivial Club, the first time in seven years.

But this was not all.

He was coming back to be married as soon as might be.

This was the thing which convulsed Dicky.

Upon the Nile at Assiout lived a young English lady whose life was devoted
to agitation against slavery in Egypt. Perhaps the Civil War in America,
not so many years before, had fired her spirit; perhaps it was
pious enthusiasm; perhaps it was some altruistic sentiment in her
which must find expression; perhaps, as people said, she had had a
love affair in England which had turned out badly. At any rate she had
come over to Egypt with an elderly companion, and, after a short
stay at the Consulate, had begun the career of the evangel. She had
now and then created international difficulty, and Ismail, tolerant enough,
had been tempted to compel her to leave the country, but, with a zeal
which took on an aspect of self-opinionated audacity, she had kept on.
Perhaps her beauty helped her on her course--perhaps the fact that her
superb egotism kept her from being timorous, made her career possible.
In any case, there she was at Assiout, and there she had been for
years, and no accident had come to her; and, during the three
months she was at Cairo every year, pleading against slavery and
the corvee, she increased steadily the respect in which she was
held; but she was considered mad as Gordon.

So delighted had Ismail been by a quiet, personal attack she made upon
him, that without malice, and with an obtuse and impulsive kindness, he
sent her the next morning a young Circassian slave, as a mark of his
esteem, begging her through the swelling rhetoric of his messenger to
keep the girl, and more than hinting at her value. It stupefied her, and
the laughter of Cairo added to her momentary embarrassment; but
she kept the girl, and prepared to send her back to her people.

The girl said she had no people, and would not go; she would stay
with "My Lady"--she would stay for ever with "My Lady." It was confusing,
but the girl stayed, worshipping the ground "My Lady" walked on. In vain
My Lady educated her.

Out of hearing, she proudly told whoever would listen that she was "My
Lady's slave." It was an Egyptian paradox; it was in line with
everything else in the country, part of the moral opera boufe.

In due course, the lady came to hear of the English slave-owner, who ruled
the desert-city and was making a great fortune out of the labours
of his slaves. The desert Arabs who came down the long caravan
road, white with bleached bones, to Assiout, told her he had a
thousand slaves.

Against this Englishman her anger, was great. She unceasingly condemned
him, and whenever she met Dicky Donovan she delivered her attack with
delicate violence. Did Dicky know him? Why did not he, in favour with
Ismail, and with great influence, stop this dreadful and humiliating
business? It was a disgrace to the English name. How could we preach
freedom and a higher civilisation to the Egyptians while an Englishman
enriched himself and ruled a province by slavery? Dicky's invariable
reply was that we couldn't, and that things weren't moving very much
towards a higher civilisation in Egypt. But he asked her if she ever heard
of a slave running away from Kingsley Bey, or had she ever heard of a
case of cruelty on his part?

Her reply was that he had given slaves the kourbash, and had even
shot them. Dicky thereupon suggested that Kingsley Bey was a government,
and that the kourbash was not yet abolished in the English navy,
for instance; also that men had to be shot sometimes.

At last she had made a direct appeal to Kingsley Bey. She sent an embassy
to him--Dicky prevented her from going herself; he said he would
have her deported straightway, if she attempted it.

She was not in such deadly earnest that she did not know he would
keep his word, and that the Consulate could not help her would have no
time to do so.

So, she confined herself to an elaborate letter, written in admirable
English and inspired by most noble sentiments. The beauty that was in
her face was in her letter in even a greater degree.

It was very adroit, too, very ably argued, and the moral appeal was
delicate and touching, put with an eloquence at once direct and
arresting.

The invocation with which the letter ended was, as Kingsley Bey
afterwards put it, "a pitch of poetry and humanity never reached
except by a Wagner opera."

Kingsley Bey's response to the appeal was a letter to the lady,
brought by a sarraf, a mamour and six slaves, beautifully mounted
and armed, saying that he had been deeply moved by her appeal, and
as a proof of the effect of her letter, she might free the six
slaves of his embassy.

This she straightway did joyfully, and when they said they wished to go
to Cairo, she saw them and their horses off on the boat with gladness,
and she shook them each by the hand and prayed Heaven in their
language to give them long plumes of life and happiness.

Arrived at Cairo these freemen of Assiout did as they had been ordered
by Kingsley--found Donovan Pasha, delivered a certain letter to him,
and then proceeded, also as they had been ordered, to a certain
place in the city, even to Ismail's stables, to await their master's
coming.

This letter was now in Dicky's hand, and his mirth was caused by
the statement that Kingsley Bey had declared that he was coming to
marry My Lady--she really was "My Lady," the Lady May Harley; that
he was coming by a different route from "his niggers," and would
be there the same day.

Dicky would find him at ten o'clock at the Khedivial Club.

My Lady hated slavery--and unconsciously she kept a slave; she regarded
Kingsley Bey as an enemy to civilisation and to Egypt, she detested
him as strongly as an idealistic nature could and should--and he
had set out to marry her, the woman who had bitterly arraigned him
at the bar of her judgment.

All this play was in Dicky's hands for himself to enjoy, in a perfect
dress rehearsal ere ever one of the Cairene public or the English world
could pay for admission and take their seats. Dicky had in more senses
than one got his money's worth out of Kingsley Bey. He wished he might
let the Khedive into the secret at once, for he had an opinion of Ismail's
sense of humour; had he not said that very day in the presence of the
French Consul, "Shut the window, quick!

If the consul sneezes, France will demand compensation!" But Dicky was
satisfied that things should be as they were. He looked at
the clock--it was five minutes to ten.

He rose from the table, and went to the smoking-room. In vain it was
sought to draw him into the friendly circles of gossiping idlers and
officials. He took a chair at the very end of the room and opposite
the door, and waited, watching.

Precisely at ten the door opened and a tall, thin, loose-knit figure
entered. He glanced quickly round, saw Dicky, and swung down the room,
nodding to men who sprang to their feet to greet him.

Some of the Egyptians looked darkly at him, but he smiled all
round, caught at one or two hands thrust out to him, said:
"Business--business first!" in a deep bass voice, and, hastening on,
seized both of Dicky's hands in his, then his shoulders, and almost
roared: "Well, what do you think of it?

Isn't it all right? Am I, or am I not, Dicky Pasha?"

"You very much are," answered Dicky, thrust a cigar at him, and set
him down in the deepest chair he could find.

He sprawled wide, and lighted his cigar, then lay back and looked down
his long nose at his friend.

"I mean it, too," he said after a minute, and reached for a glass of water
the waiter brought. "No, thanks, no whiskey--never touch it--good example
to the slaves!"

He laughed long and low, and looked at Dicky out of the corner of
his eye.

"Good-looking lot I sent you, eh?"

"Oosters, every one of 'em. Butter wouldn't melt in their mouths.
I learnt their grin, it suits my style of beauty." Dicky fitted the
action to the word. "You'll start with me in the morning to Assiout?"

"I can start, but life and time are short."
"You think I can't and won't marry her?"

"This isn't the day of Lochinvar."

"This is the day of Kingsley Bey, Dicky Pasha."
Dicky frowned. He had a rare and fine sense where women were concerned,
were they absent or present. "How very artless--and in so short a
time, too!" he said tartly.

Kingsley laughed quietly. "Art is long, but tempers are short!" he
retorted.

Dicky liked a Roland for his Oliver.

"It's good to see you back again," he said, changing the subject.

"How long do you mean to stay?"
"Here?" Dicky nodded. "Till I'm married."
Dicky became very quiet, a little formal, and his voice took on a
curious smoothness, through which sharp suggestion pierced.

"So long?--Enter our Kingsley Bey into the underground Levantine world."

This was biting enough.

To be swallowed up by Cairo life and all that it involves, was no fate to
suggest to an Englishman, whose opinion of the Levantine needs no
defining.

"Try again, Dicky," said Kingsley, refusing to be drawn. "This is
not one huge joke, or one vast impertinence, so far as the lady is
concerned.

I've come back-b-a-c-k" (he spelled the word out), "with all that
it involves.

I've come back, Dicky."

He quieted all at once, and leaned over towards his friend. "You know
the fight I've had. You know the life I've lived in Egypt. You know
what I left behind me in England--nearly all. You've seen the white
man work.

You've seen the black ooster save him. You've seen the ten-times-a-failure
pull out. Have I played the game?

Have I acted squarely?

Have I given kindness for kindness, blow for blow? Have I treated my
slaves like human beings? Have I--have I won my way back to life--life?"
He spread out a hand with a little grasping motion.

"Have I saved the old stand off there in Cumberland by the sea, where you
can see the snow on Skaw Fell? Have I? Do you wonder that I laugh?

Ye gods and little fishes! I've had to wear a long face years
enough--seven hard years, seven fearful years, when I might be murdered
by a slave, and I and my slaves might be murdered by some stray
brigade, under some general of Ismail's, working without orders, without
orders, of course--oh, very much of course! Why shouldn't I play the boy
to-day, little Dicky Donovan?

I am a Mahommedan come Christian again. I am a navvy again come gentleman.
I am an Arab come Englishman once more.

"I am an outcast come home.

I am a dead man come to life."
Dicky leaned over and laid a hand on his knee.

"You are a credit to Cumberland," he said. "No other man could have done
it.

I won't ask any more questions.

Anything you want of me, I am with you, to do, or say, or be."
"Good. I want you to go to Assiout to-morrow."
"Will you see Ismail first? It might be safer--good policy."
"I will see My Lady first. . . . Trust me.

I know what I'm doing. You will laugh as I do." Laughter broke
from his lips. It was as though his heart was ten years old. Dicky's
eyes moistened. He had never seen anything like it--such happiness,
such boyish confidence. And what had not this man experienced! How had
he drunk misfortune to the dregs! What unbelievable optimism had been
his! How had he been at once hard and kind, tyrannical and human,
defiant and peaceful, daring yet submissive, fierce yet just!

And now, here, with so much done, with a great fortune and great
power, a very boy, he was planning to win the heart of, and marry,
his avowed foe, the woman who had condemned him without stint.

II
On her wide veranda, a stone's-throw from the banks of the Nile, My Lady
sat pen in hand and paper-pad upon her knee. She had written steadily
for an hour, and now she raised her head to look out on the
swift-flowing, muddy water, where broad khiassas floated down the
stream, laden with bersim; where feluccas covered the river, bearing
natives and donkeys; where faithful Moslems performed their ablutions,
and other faithful Moslems, their sandals laid aside, said their
prayers with their faces towards Mecca, oblivious of all around;
where blue-robed women filled their goolahs with water, and bore
them away, steady and stately; where a gang of conscripts, chained
ankle to ankle, followed by a crowd of weeping and wailing women,
were being driven to the anchorage of the stern-wheeled transport-steamer.

All these sights she had seen how many hundred times! To her it was all
slavery.

The laden khiassas represented the fruits of enforced labour; the
ablutions and prayers were but signs of submission to the tyranny
of a religion designed for the benefit of the few at the expense
of the many, a creed and code of gross selfishness--were not women
only admitted to Heaven by the intercession of their husbands and
after unceasing prayer?

Whether beasts of burden, the girl with the goolah, women in the harem,
or servants of pleasure, they were all in the bonds of slavery,
and the land was in moral darkness.

So it seemed to her.

How many times had she written these things in different forms and
to different people--so often, too often, to the British Consul at
Cairo, whose patience waned.

At first, the seizure of conscripts, with all that it involved, had
excited her greatly. It had required all her common-sense to prevent her,
then and there, protesting, pleading, with the kavass, who did the
duty of Ismail's Sirdar. She had confined herself, however, to asking for
permission to give the men cigarettes and slippers, dates and bread, and
bags of lentils for soup. Even this was not unaccompanied by danger,
for the Mahommedan mind could not at first tolerate the idea of a
lady going unveiled; only fellah women, domestic cattle, bared their
faces to the world.

The conscripts, too, going to their death--for how few of them ever
returned?--leaving behind all hope, all freedom, passing to starvation
and cruelty, at last to be cut down by the Arab, or left dying of
illness in the desert, they took her gifts with sullen faces. Her
beautiful freedom was in such contrast to their torture, slavery
of a direful kind.

But as again and again the kavasses came and opened midnight doors and
snatched away the young men, her influence had grown so fast that her
presence brought comfort, and she helped to assuage the grief of
the wailing women.

She even urged upon them that philosophy of their own, which said "Malaish"
to all things--the "It is no matter," of the fated Hamlet. In time
she began to be grateful that an apathetic resignation, akin to
the quiet of despair, was the possession of their race.

She was far from aware that something in their life, of their philosophy,
was affecting her understanding. She had a strong brain and a stronger
will, but she had a capacity for feeling greater still, and this gave
her imagination, temperament, and--though it would have shocked her
to know it--a certain credulity, easily transmutable into superstition.
Yet, as her sympathies were, to some extent, rationalised by stern fact
and everlasting custom, her opposition to some things became more active
and more fervid.

Looking into the distance, she saw two or three hundred men at work on a
canal, draining the property of Selamlik Pasha, whose tyrannies,
robberies, and intrigues were familiar to all Egypt, whose palaces
were almost as many as those of the notorious Mouffetish.

These men she saw now working in the dread corvee had been forced from
their homes by a counterfeit Khedivial order. They had been compelled
to bring their own tools, and to feed and clothe and house themselves,
without pay or reward, having left behind them their own fields untilled,
their own dourha unreaped, their date-palms, which the tax-gatherer
confiscated.

Many and many a time--unless she was prevented, and this at first had
been often--she had sent food and blankets to these poor creatures
who, their day's work done, prayed to God as became good Mahommedans,
and, without covering, stretched themselves out on the bare ground
to sleep.

It suggested that other slavery, which did not hide itself under
the forms of conscription and corvee.

It was on this slavery her mind had been concentrated, and against it
she had turned her energies and her life. As she now sat, pen in hand,
the thought of how little she had done, how futile had been all
her crusade, came to her.

Yet there was, too, a look of triumph in her eyes. Until three days ago
she had seen little result from her labours. Then had come a promise
of better things.
From the Englishman, against whom she had inveighed, had been sent
an olive branch, a token--of conversion?

Had he not sent six slaves for her to free, and had she not freed them?
That was a step.

She pictured to herself this harsh expatriated adventurer, this desert
ruler, this slave-holder--had he been a slave-dealer she could
herself have gladly been his executioner--surrounded by his black
serfs, receiving her letter.

In her mind's eye she saw his face flush as he read her burning
phrases, then turn a little pale, then grow stern.

She saw him, after a sleepless night, haunted by her warnings, her
appeal to his English manhood.

She saw him rise, meditative and relenting, and send forthwith
these slaves for her to free.

Her eye glistened again, as it had shone while she had written of
this thing to the British Consul at Cairo, to her father in England,
who approved of her sympathies and lamented her actions.

Had her crusade been altogether fruitless, she asked herself. Ismail's
freed Circassian was in her household, being educated like an
English girl, lifted out of her former degradation, made to understand
"a higher life"; and yesterday she had sent away six liberated
slaves, with a gold-piece each, as a gift from a free woman to free
men.

It seemed to her for a moment now, as she sat musing and looking,
that her thirty years of life had not been--rather, might not be-in
vain.

There was one other letter she would write--to Donovan Pasha, who
had not been ardent in her cause, yet who might have done so much
through his influence with Ismail, who, it was said, liked him
better than any Englishman he had known, save Gordon.

True, Donovan Pasha had steadily worked for the reduction of the
corvee, and had, in the name of the Khedive, steadily reduced private
corvee, but he had never set his face against slavery, save to see
that no slave-dealing was permitted below Assouan.

Yet, with her own eyes she had seen Abyssinian slaves sold in the
market-place of Assiout.

True, when she appealed to him, Donovan Pasha had seen to it that the
slave-dealers were severely punished, but the fact remained that he was
unsympathetic on the large issue.

When appealed to, the British Consul had petulantly told her that
Donovan Pasha was doing more important work.

Yet she could only think of England as the engine of civilisation, as an
evangelising power, as the John the Baptist of the nations--a
country with a mission.

For so beautiful a woman, of so worldly a stock, of a society so in
the front of things, she had some Philistine notions, some quite middle-class
ideals.

It was like a duchess taking to Exeter Hall; but few duchesses so
afflicted had been so beautiful and so young, so much of the worldly
world--her father was high in the household of an illustrious person.
. . .

"Yes'm," was his meek answer, though he called back as he disappeared:
"Been blackenin' my boots."

The Girl took up the word quickly.

"Boots! Yes, an' look at them boots!" And as each man came up to her,
"An' them boots! an' them boots! Get in there the whole lot o' you an'
be sure that you leave your whisky behind."

When all had left the room save Nick, who stood with her cape on his arm
near the desk she suddenly became conscious that she still had her hood
on, and at once began to remove it--a proceeding which brought out
clearly the extraordinary pallor of her face which, generally, had a
bright, healthy colouring. Now she beckoned to Nick to draw near. No
need for her to speak, for he had caught the questioning look in her
eyes, and it told him plainer than any words that she was anxious to
hear of her lover. He was about to tell her the little he knew when with
lips that trembled she finally whispered:

"Have you heard anythin'? Do you think he got through safe?"

Nick nodded in the affirmative.

"I saw 'im off, you know," she went on in the same low voice; then,
before Nick could speak, she concluded anxiously: "But s'pose he don't
git through?"

"Oh, he'll git through sure! We'll hear he's out of this country pretty
quick," consoled the little barkeeper just as Rance, unperceived by
them, quietly entered the room and went over to a chair by the stove.


XVI.


No man had more of a dread of the obvious than the Sheriff. His
position, he felt, was decidedly an unpleasant one. Nevertheless, in the
silence that followed the Girl's discovery of his presence, he struggled
to appear his old self. He was by no means unconscious of the fact that
he had omitted his usual cordial greeting to her, and he felt that she
must be scrutinising him, feature by feature. When, therefore, he shot a
covert glance at her, it was with surprise that he saw an appealing look
in her eyes.

"Oh, Jack, I want to thank you--" she began, but stopped quickly,
deterred by the hard expression that instantly spread itself over the
Sheriff's face. Resentment, all the more bitter because he believed it
to be groundless, followed hard on the heels of her words which he
thought to be inspired solely by a delicate tactfulness.

"Oh, don't thank me that he got away," he said icily. "It was the three
aces and the pair you held--"

This was the Girl's opportunity; she seized it.

"About the three aces, I want to say that--"

It was Rance's turn to interrupt, which he did brutally.

"He'd better keep out of my country, that's all."

"Yes, yes."

To the Girl, any reference to her lover was a stab. Her face was pale
with her terrible anxiety; notwithstanding, the contrast of her pallid
cheeks and masses of golden hair gave her a beauty which Rance, as he
met her eyes, found so extraordinarily tempting that he experienced a
renewed fury at his utter helplessness. At the point, however, when it
would seem from his attitude that all his self-control was about to
leave him, the Girl picked up the bell on the desk and rang it
vigorously.

Began then the long procession of miners walking around the room before
taking their seats on the benches. At their head was Happy Halliday, who
carried in his hands a number of slates, the one on the top having a
large sponge attached. These were all more or less in bad condition,
some having no frames, while others were mere slits of slate, but all
had slate-pencils fastened to them by strings.

"Come along, boys, get your slates!" sang out Happy as he left the line
and let the others file past him.

"Whoop!" vociferated Trinidad in a burst of enthusiasm.

"Trin, you're out o' step there!" reprimanded the teacher a little
sharply; and then addressing Happy she ordered him to take his place
once more in the line.

In a little while they were all seated, and now, at last, it seemed to
the barkeeper as if the air of the room had been freed of its tension.
No longer did he experience a sense of alertness, a feeling that
something out of the ordinary was going to happen, and it was with
immense relief that he heard the Girl take up her duties and ask:

"What books were left from last year?"

At first no one was able to give a scrap of information on this
important matter; maybe it was because all lips were too dry to open; in
the end, however, when the silence was becoming embarrassing, Happy
moistened his lips with his tongue, and answered:

"Why, we scared up jest a whole book left. The name of it is--is--is--"
The effort was beyond his mental powers and he came to a helpless pause.

Swelling with importance, and drawing forth the volume in question from
his pocket, Sonora stood up and finished:

"--is 'Old Joe Miller's Jokes.'"

"That will do nicely," declared the Girl and seated herself on the
pine-decorated box.

"Now, boys," continued Sonora, ever the most considerate of pupils,
"before we begin I propose no drawin' of weppings, drinkin' or swearin'
in school hours. The conduct of certain members wore on teacher last
term. I don't want to mention no names, but I want Handsome an' Happy to
hear what I'm sayin'." And after a sweeping glance at his mates, who,
already, had begun to disport themselves and jeer at the unfortunate
pair, he wound up with: "Is that straight?"

"You bet it is!" yelled the others in chorus; whereupon Sonora dropped
into his seat.

In time order was restored and now the Girl, looking at Rance out of her
big, frightened, blue eyes, observed:

"Rance, last year you led off with an openin' address, an'--"

"Yes, yes, go on Sheriff!" cried the boys, hailing her suggestion with
delight.

Nevertheless, the Sheriff hesitated, seeing which, Trinidad contributed:
"Let 'er go, Jack!"

At length, fixing a look upon the Girl, Rance rose and said
significantly:

"I pass."

"Oh, then, Sonora," suggested the Girl, covering up her embarrassment as
best she could, "won't you make a speech?"

"Me--speak?" exploded Sonora; and again; "Me--speak? Oh, the devil!"

"Sh-sh!" came warningly from several of the boys.

"Why, I didn't mean that, o' course," apologised Sonora, colouring, and
incidentally expectorating on Bucking Billy's boots. But to his infinite
sorrow no protest worthy of the word was forthcoming from the apparently
insensible Bucking Billy.

"Go on! Go on!" urged the school.

Sonora coughed behind his hand; then he began his address.

"Gents, I look on this place as something more 'n a place to sit around
an' spit on--the stove. I claim that there's culture in the air o'
Californay an' we're here to buck up again it an' hook on."

"Hear! Hear! Hear!" voiced the men together, while their fists came down
heavily upon the improvised desks before them.

"With these remarks," concluded Sonora, "I set." The wise man, who has
absolute rule over himself."
Page 31. Oenomaus, father of Hippodameia, would give her only to the suitor
who could overcome him in a chariot race. Suitors whom he could overtake
he killed.

He killed himself when outstripped by Pelops, whom a god assisted, or,
according to one version, a man who took the nails out of Oenomaus'
chariot wheels, and brought him down with a crash.

Page 41. Nunquam minus solus quam cum solus. Never less alone than when
alone.

Page 47. Sic ego, &c. From Tibullus, IV., 13.

Page 51. O quis me gelidis, &c. From the Second Book of Virgil's
Georgics, in a passage expressing the poet's wish:

Ye sacred Muses, with whose beauty fired, My soul is ravished and my brain
inspired; Whose priest I am, whose holy fillets wear, Would you your
poet's first petition hear:

Give me the ways of wandering stars to know; The depths of Heaven
above, and Earth below; Teach me, &c. . . .
. . .

But if my heavy blood restrain the flight Of my free soul aspiring
to the height Of Nature, and unclouded fields of light:
My next desire is, void of care and strife, To lead a soft, secure,
inglorious life.

A country cottage near a crystal flood, A winding valley and a lofty
wood; Some god conduct me to the sacred shades Where bacchanals are
sung by Spartan maids, Or lift me high to Haemus hilly crown, Or
in the vales of Tempe lay me down, Or lead me to some solitary
place, And cover my retreat from human race.

Dryden's translation.

Page 56. Nam neque divitibus.

Horace's Epistles, I., 18.

Page 58.

Tankerwoman, "water-bearer, one who carried water from the conduits."
Page 60. Bucephalus, the horse of Alexander. Domitian is said to
have given a consulship to his horse Incitatus.

Page 60.This remark of the Girl's brought forth murmurs of wonder, and in the
midst of them the door was pushed slowly inward and The Sidney Duck,
wearing the deuce of spades which the Sheriff had pinned to his jacket
when he banished him from their presence for cheating at cards, stood on
the threshold, looking uncertainly about him. At once all eyes were
focused upon him.

"Git! Git!" shouted the men, angrily. This was followed by a general
movement towards him, which so impressed The Sidney Duck that he turned
on his heel and was fleeing for his life when a cry from the Girl
stopped him.

"Boys, boys," said the Girl in a reproving voice, which silenced them
almost instantly; then, beckoning to Sid to approach, she went on in her
most gentle tones: "I was jest gittin' to you, Sid, as I promised. You
can stay."

Looking like a whipped dog The Sidney Duck advanced warily towards her.

Sonora's brow grew thunderous.

"What, here among gentlemen?"

And that his protest met with instantaneous approval was shown by the
way the miners shifted uneasily in their seats and shouted
threateningly:

"Git! Git!"

"Why, the fellow's a--" began Trinidad, but got no further, for the Girl
stopped him by exclaiming:

"I know, I know, Trin--I've tho't it all over!"

For the next few minutes the Girl stood strangely still and her face
became very grave. Never before had the men seen her in a mood like
this, and they exchanged wondering glances. Presently she said:

"Boys, of late a man in trouble has been on my mind--" She paused, her
glance having caught the peculiar light which her words had caused to
appear in Rance's eyes, and lest he should misunderstand her meaning,
she hastened to add: "Sid, o' course,--an' I fell to thinkin' o' the
Prodigal Son. He done better, didn't he?"

"But a card sharp," objected Sonora from the depths of his big voice.

"Yes, that's what!" interjected Trinidad, belligerently.

The Girl's eyebrows lifted and a shade of resentment was in the
answering voice:

"But s'pose there was a moment in his life when he was called upon to
find a extra ace--can't we forgive 'im? He says he's sorry--ain't you,
Sid?"

All the while the Girl had been speaking The Sidney Duck kept his eyes
lowered and was swallowing nervously. Now he raised them and, with a
feeble attempt to simulate penitence, he acknowledged that he had done
wrong. Nevertheless, he declared:

"But if I 'adn't got caught things would 'a' been different. Oh, yes,
I'm sorry."

In an instant the Girl was at his side removing the deuce of spades from
his coat.

"Sid, you git your chance," she said with trembling lips. "Now go an'
sit down."

A broad smile was creeping over The Sidney Duck's countenance as he
moved towards the others; but Happy took it upon himself to limit its
spread.

"Take that!" he blazed, striking the man in the face. "And git out of
here!

"Happy, Happy!" cried the Girl. Her voice was so charged with reproach
that The Sidney Duck was allowed by the men to pass on without any
further molestation. Nevertheless, when he attempted to sit beside them,
they moved as far away as possible from him and compelled him to take a
stool that stood apart from the benches which held them together in
friendly proximity.

At this point Trinidad inquired of the Girl whether she meant to infer
that honesty was not the best policy, and by way of illustration, he
went on to say:

"S'posin' my watch had no works an' I was to sell it to the Sheriff for
one hundred dollars. Would you have much respect for me?"

For the briefest part of a second the Girl seemed to be reflecting.

"I'd have more respect for you than for the Sheriff," she answered
succinctly.

"Hurrah! Whoopee! Whoop!" yelled the men, who were delighted both with
what she said as well as her pert way of saying it.

It was in the midst of these shouts that Billy Jackrabbit and Wowkle,
unobserved by the others, quietly stole into the room and squatted
themselves down under the blackboard. When the merriment had subsided
Rance rose and took the floor. His face was paler than usual, though his
voice was calm when presently he said:

"Well, bein' Sheriff, I'm careful about my company--I'll sit in the bar.
Cheats and road agents"--and here he paused meaningly and glanced from
The Sidney Duck to the Girl--"ar'n't jest in my line. I walk in the open
road with my head up and my face to the sun, and whatever I've pulled
up, you'll remark I've always played square and stood by the cyards."

"I know, I know," observed the Girl and fell wearily into her seat; the
next instant she went on more confidently: "An' that's the way to
travel--in the straight road. But if ever I don't travel that road, or
you--"

"You always will, you bet," observed Nick with feeling.

"You bet she will!" shouted the others.

"But if I don't," continued the Girl, insistently, "I hope there'll be
someone to lead me back--back to the right road. 'Cause remember, Rance,
some of us are lucky enough to be born good, while others have to be
'lected."

"That's eloquence!" cried Sonora, moved almost to tears; while Rance
took a step forward as if about to make some reply; but the next
instant, his head held no longer erect and his face visibly twitching,
he passed into the bar-room.

A silence reigned for a time, which was broken at last by the Girl
announcing with great solemnity:

"If anybody can sing 'My Country 'Tis,' Academy's opened."

At this request, really of a physical nature, and advanced in a spirit
of true modesty, all present, curiously enough, seemed to have lost
their voices and nudged one another in an endeavour to get the hymn
started. Someone insisted that Sonora should go ahead, but that worthy
pupil objected giving as his excuse, obviously a paltry one and trumped
up for the occasion, that he did not know the words. There was nothing
to it, therefore, but that the Indians should render the great American
anthem. +R. Royster.+ Rather than to be slaine, I will flee.

   +C. Custance.+ Too it againe,
    my knightesses, downe
    with them all.

+R.

   Royster.+ Away, away, away, she will else kyll vs all.

+M. Mery.+ Nay sticke to it, like an hardie man and a tall.

   +R. Royster.+ Oh bones, thou
    hittest me. Away, or else
    die we shall.

+M. Mery.+ Away for the pashe of our sweete Lord Iesus Christ.

+C. Custance.+ Away loute and lubber, or I shall be thy priest.
_Exeant om._

So this fielde is ours we haue driuen them all away.

+Tib Talk.+ Thankes to God mistresse, ye haue had a faire day.

   +C. Custance.+ Well nowe goe ye in, and
     make your selfe some good cheere.

_Omnes pariter._ We goe.

+T.

Trust.+ Ah sir, what a field we haue had heere.

+C.

Custance.+ Friend Tristram, I pray you be a witnesse with me.

+T.

Trusty.+ Dame Custance, I shall depose for your honestie, And nowe
fare ye well, except some thing else ye wolde.

+C. Custance.+ Not now, but when I nede to sende I will be bolde.

_Exeat._

I thanke you for these paines. And now I wyll get me in, Now Roister
Doister will no more wowyng begin. _Ex._

Actus. v. Scæna. j.

+Gawyn Goodlucke. Sym Suresby.+
Sym Suresby my trustie man, nowe aduise thee well, And see that no false
surmises thou me tell, Was there such adoe about Custance of a truth?

+Sim. Sure.+ To reporte that I hearde and sawe, to me is ruth, But
both my duetie and name and propretie, Warneth me to you to shewe
fidelitie, It may be well enough, and I wyshe it so to be, She may
hir selfe discharge and trie hir honestie, Yet their clayme to hir
me thought was very large, For with letters rings and tokens, they
dyd hir charge.

Which when I hearde and sawe I would none to you bring.

+G.

Goodl.+ No, by sainct Marie, I allowe thee in that thing.

Ah sirra, nowe I see truthe in the prouerbe olde, All things that
shineth is not by and by pure golde, If any doe lyue a woman of
honestie, I would haue sworne Christian Custance had bene shee.

+Sim. Sure.+ Sir, though I to you be a seruant true and iust.

Yet doe not ye therfore your faithfull spouse mystrust.
But examine the matter, and if ye shall it finde, To be all well,
be not ye for my wordes vnkinde.
+G. Goodl.+ I shall do that is right, and as I see cause why.
But here commeth Custance forth, we shal know by and by.
Actus. v. Scæna. ij.
+C. Custance. Gawyn Goodlucke. Sym Suresby.+
+C. Custance.+ I come forth to see and hearken for newes good, For
about this houre is the tyme of likelyhood, That Gawyn Goodlucke
by the sayings of Suresby, Would be at home, and lo yond I see hym
I.
What Gawyn Goodlucke, the onely hope of my life, Welcome home, and
kysse me your true espoused wife.

+Ga.Sonora looked more puzzled than ever; he rested his hand upon her desk
as if to support himself, and said:

"I don't quite understand. Great Gilead! We done anythin' to offend
you?"

"Oh, no, no, no!" she hastened to assure him, at the same time letting
her hand rest upon his.

But this explanation did not satisfy Sonora. Anxious to discover what
she had at heart he went on sounding:

"Tired of us? Ain't we got style enough for you?"

The Girl did not answer; her breathing, swift and short, painfully
intensified the hush that had fallen on the room; at last, the boys
becoming impatient began to bombard her with questions.

"Be you goin' to show them Ridge boys we've petered out an' culture's a
dead dog here?" began Happy, rising.

"Do you want them to think Academy's busted?" asked Handsome.

"Ain't we your boys no more?" put in Trinidad, wistfully.

"Ain't I your boy?" asked Sonora, sentimentally. "Why, what is it, Girl?
Has anybody--tell me--perhaps--"

The Girl raised her head and dried her eyes; when she spoke one could
have heard a pin drop.

"Oh, no, no, no," she said with averted face, and added tremulously:
"There, we won't say no more about it. Let's forgit it. Only when I go
away I want to leave the key o' my cabin with Old Sonora here, an' I
want you all to come up sometimes, an' to think o' me as the girl who
loved you all, an' sometimes is wishin' you well, an' I want to think o'
little Nick here runnin' my bar an' not givin' the boys too much
whisky." Her words died away in a sob and her head fell forward, her
hand, the while, resting upon Nick's shoulder.

At last, Sonora saw what lay beneath her tears; the situation was all
too clear to him now.

"Hold on!" he cried hoarsely. "There's jest one reason for the Girl to
leave her home an' friends--only one: There must be some fellow away
from here that she--that she likes better 'n she does any of us." And
turning once more upon the Girl, he demanded excitedly: "Is that it?
Speak!"

Certaine Songs to be song by _those which shall vse this Comedie
or Enterlude_.

+The Seconde Song.+
Who so to marry a minion Wyfe, Hath hadde good chaunce and happe,
Must loue hir and cherishe hir all his life, And dandle hir in his
lappe.

If she will fare well, yf she wyll go gay, A good husbande euer styll,
What euer she lust to doe, or to say, Must lette hir haue hir owne
will.

About what affaires so euer he goe, He must shewe hir all his mynde, None
of hys counsell she may be kept free, Else is he a man vnkynde.

+The fourth Song.+

I mun be maried a Sunday I mun be maried a Sunday, Who soeuer shall
come that way, I mun be maried a Sunday.

Royster Doyster is my name, Royster Doyster is my name, A lustie brute
I am the same, I mun be maried a Sunday.
She raised
herself on her tiny toes and kissed him on the left cheek.

The next instant she was gone.


XVII.


Whatever may be said to the contrary, there are few more humiliating
moments in a man's life than when he learns that some other person has
supplanted him in the affections of his adored one. And it was the
Girl's knowledge of this, together with her desire to spare the feelings
of her two old admirers,--for in her nature there was ever that
thoughtfulness of others which never permitted her to do a mean thing to
anyone,--that had caused her to flee so precipitously from the room.

But painful as was their humiliation as they stood in silence, gazing
with saddened faces at the door through which the Girl had gone out,
their cup of bitterness was not yet full. The next moment the Sheriff,
his lips curled inscrutably, said mockingly:

"Well, boys, the right man has come at last. Take your medicine,
gentlemen."

His words cut Sonora to the quick, and it was with difficulty that he
braced himself to hear the worst.

"Who's the man?" he inquired gruffly.

The Sheriff's eyes fastened themselves upon him; at length with deadly
coldness he drawled out:

"Johnson's the man."

All the colour went out of Sonora's face, while his lips ejaculated:

"Gol A'mighty!"

"You lie!" There is no danger from me of offending him in this kind; neither
my mind, nor my body, nor my fortune allow me any materials for
that vanity.

It is sufficient for my own contentment that they have preserved me
from being scandalous, or remarkable on the defective side. But besides
that, I shall here speak of myself only in relation to the subject
of these precedent discourses, and shall be likelier thereby to
fall into the contempt than rise up to the estimation of most people.

As far as my memory can return back into my past life, before I
knew or was capable of guessing what the world, or glories, or
business of it were, the natural affections of my soul gave me a
secret bent of aversion from them, as some plants are said to turn
away from others, by an antipathy imperceptible to themselves and
inscrutable to man's understanding.

Even when I was a very young boy at school, instead of running about
on holidays and playing with my fellows, I was wont to steal from
them and walk into the fields, either alone with a book, or with
some one companion, if I could find any of the same temper.

I was then, too, so much an enemy to all constraint, that my masters
could never prevail on me, by any persuasions or encouragements,
to learn without book the common rules of grammar, in which they
dispensed with me alone, because they found I made a shift to do
the usual exercises out of my own reading and observation.

That I was then of the same mind as I am now (which I confess I
wonder at myself) may appear by the latter end of an ode which I
made when I was but thirteen years old, and which was then printed
with many other verses.

The beginning of it is boyish, but of this part which I here set down, if
a very little were corrected, I should hardly now be much ashamed.

IX.

This only grant me, that my means may lie Too low for envy, for contempt
too high.

Some honour I would have, Not from great deeds, but good alone.
The unknown are better than ill known.
But the Sheriff did not move a muscle, though after a moment he answered
coolly:

"Oh, I don't know as I give a damn . . .!" Which reply, to say the
least, was somewhat disconcerting to the men who had surrounded him and
were eyeing him threateningly.

"No talk--we want Johnson," insisted Trinidad, hotly.

"We want Johnson," echoed the crowd in low, tense voices, their fists
clenched.

And still Rance did not waver, but calmly puffing sway at his long,
black cigar he looked blankly into space. Presently a voice outside
calling, "Boys!" sounded throughout the room and brought him back to
actuality. He sat straight up in his chair while Nick, shifting uneasily
about on his feet, muttered:

"Why, that's Ashby!"

"Oh, if--" began the Sheriff and stopped. The next instant the Wells
Fargo Agent, a cool, triumphant look on his face, stood framed in the
doorway. With a hasty movement towards him Rance asked tensely: "Did you
get him?"

The answer came back, almost before the question was asked:

"Yes--we've got him."

"Not Johnson?" demanded Sonora, truculently.

"Yes, Johnson," affirmed the Wells Fargo Agent with a hard laugh, his
eyes the while upon Handsome, who, unaided, was lifting a heavy cask to
a bench nearby.

"Not alive?" questioned Trinidad, unwilling to trust his own ears.

"You bet!" was Ashby's sententious confirmation, at which pandemonium
broke loose, Nick alone appearing dejected and morose-looking. For his
love and devotion to the Girl were too genuine to permit of his taking
any part whatsoever in what he believed was opposed to her happiness. On
the other hand, Rance, as may be inferred, was inwardly rejoicing,
though when he perceived that Nick was eyeing him steadily he was
careful to lower his eyes lest the little barkeeper should see the
triumph shining beneath them. And, finally, unable to bear Nick's
scrutiny any longer, he explained with a feeble attempt at self-defence:

"Well, I didn't do it, Nick, I didn't do it." But a moment later, his
face hard and set, he added: "Now he be damned! There's an end of
Johnson!"

The words were hardly out of his mouth, however, than Johnson, his arms
bound, followed by the Deputy, strode into the room with the courage of
one who has long faced death, and stood before the men who glared at him
with fire in their eyes and murder in their hearts.

"How do you do, Mr. Johnson. I think, Mr. Johnson, five minutes will do
for you." Rance gave to the words a peculiar accent and inflection, but
this caused the prisoner to look even more composed and calm than
before; he returned crisply:

"I think so."

"So this is the gentleman the Girl loves?" Sonora's face wore a cruel
grin as he stood with arms folded leering at the prisoner.

The biting humour of the thought appealed to Rance, and he smiled grimly
to himself.

"That's the gentleman"--he was saying when a voice outside broke in upon
his words with:

"Nick! Boys! Boys!"

"It's the Girl!" cried Nick in dismay, at the same time rushing over to
the door to intercept her; while Ashby, desirous of preventing any
communication between the Girl and the prisoner took up a position
between them--unnecessary precautions, since the Girl had no intention
of re-entering the room, but wished merely to say that she had forgotten
that it was recess and that the boys might have one drink.

At the sound of her voice Johnson paled. He listened to her retreating
steps, then turning towards Nick he asked him to lock the door.

"Why, the devil . . .!" objected the Sheriff, angrily.

"Please," urged the prisoner with such a look of entreaty in his eyes
that Nick could not find it in his heart to deny him, and went forthwith
to the door and locked it.

"Why, you--" began Sonora with a hurried movement towards the prisoner.

"You keep out of this, Sonora," enjoined the Sheriff, coming forward to
take a hand in the proceedings. "I handle the rope--pick the tree . . ."

"Then hurry . . ." said Sonora, impatiently, while Trinidad interposed
with his usual, "You bet!"

"One moment," said the prisoner as the miners started to go out; and,
strange to relate, the Sheriff ordered the men to halt. Turning once
more to the prisoner, he said:

"Be quick--what is it?"

"It is true," began the unfortunate road agent in an even, unemotional
voice, "that I love the Girl."

At these words Rance's arms flew up threateningly, while a mocking smile
sprang to his lips.

"Well, you won't in a minute," he reminded him grimly.

The taunt brought no change of expression to the prisoner's face or
change of tone in his voice as he went on to say that he did not care
what they did to him; that he was prepared for anything; and that every
man who travelled the path that he did faced death every day for a drink
of water or ten minutes' sleep, concluding calmly:

"You've got me and I wouldn't care but for the Girl."

"You've got just three minutes!" A shade almost of contempt was in
Sonora's exclamation.

"Yes . . .!" blazed Trinidad.

There was an impressive silence; then in a voice that trembled strangely
between pride and humility Johnson continued:

"I don't want her to know my end. Why, that would be an awful thought
for her to go on with all her life--that I died out there--near at hand.
Why, boys, she couldn't stay here after that--she couldn't . . ."

"That's understood," replied Rance, succinctly.

Friendship reigned without a hitch from one end of the feast to the
other. When bad times arrive one thus comes in for some pleasant evenings,
hours during which sworn enemies love each other. Lantier, with Gervaise
on his left and Virginie on his right, was most amiable to both of them,
lavishing little tender caresses like a cock who desires peace in his
poultry-yard. But the queens of the feast were the two little ones,
Nana and Pauline, who had been allowed to keep on their things; they
sat bolt upright through fear of spilling anything on their white
dresses and at every mouthful they were told to hold up their chins
so as to swallow cleanly.

Nana, greatly bored by all this fuss, ended by slobbering her wine over
the body of her dress, so it was taken off and the stains were
at once washed out in a glass of water.

Then at dessert the children's future careers were gravely discussed.

Madame Boche had decided that Pauline would enter a shop to learn
how to punch designs on gold and silver.

That paid five or six francs a day. Gervaise didn't know yet because
Nana had never indicated any preference.

"In your place," said Madame Lerat, "I would bring Nana up as an
artificial flower-maker.

It is a pleasant and clean employment."
"Flower-makers?" muttered Lorilleux.

"Every one of them might as well walk the streets."

"Well, what about me?" objected Madame Lerat, pursing her lips.

"You're certainly not very polite.

I assure you that I don't lie down for anyone who whistles."
Then all the rest joined together in hushing her.

"Madame Lerat! Oh, Madame Lerat!"

By side glances they reminded her of the two girls, fresh from communion,
who were burying their noses in their glasses to keep from laughing
out loud.

The men had been very careful, for propriety's sake, to use only
suitable language, but Madame Lerat refused to follow their example.
She flattered herself on her command of language, as she had often been
complimented on the way she could say anything before children,
without any offence to decency.

"Just you listen, there are some very fine women among the flower-makers!"
she insisted. "They're just like other women and they show good taste
when they choose to commit a sin."

"_Mon Dieu!

_" interrupted Gervaise, "I've no dislike for artificial flower-making.
Only it must please Nana, that's all I care about; one should never
thwart children on the question of a vocation.

Come Nana, don't be stupid; tell me now, would you like to make flowers?"

The child was leaning over her plate gathering up the cake crumbs
with her wet finger, which she afterwards sucked.

She did not hurry herself.
She grinned in her vicious way.

"Why yes, mamma, I should like to," she ended by declaring.

Then the matter was at once settled.

Coupeau was quite willing that Madame Lerat should take the child with
her on the morrow to the place where she worked in the Rue du Caire. And
they all talked very gravely of the duties of life.

Boche said that Nana and Pauline were women now that they had partaken
of communion. Poisson added that for the future they ought to know how
to cook, mend socks and look after a house.

Something was even said of their marrying, and of the children
they would some day have. The youngsters listened, laughing to themselves,
elated by the thought of being women.

What pleased them the most was when Lantier teased them, asking if they
didn't already have little husbands. Nana eventually admitted that she
cared a great deal for Victor Fauconnier, son of her mother's employer.

"Wait a minute," Rance temporised.

The prisoner halted.

"I don't know that I'm so small a man as to deny the usual courtesies,
since you put it that way," continued Rance. "I always have extended
them. But we'll hear what you have to say--that's our protection. And it
might interest some of us to hear what the Girl will have to say to you,
Mr. Johnson--after a week in her cabin there may be more to know than--"

Fire leapt to Johnson's eyes; he cried hoarsely--

"Stop!"

"Rance, you don't know what you're sayin'," resented Nick, casting hard
looks at him; while Sonora put a heavy hand upon the Sheriff and
threatened him with:

"Now, Rance, you stop that!"

"We'll hear every word he has to say," insisted the Sheriff, doggedly.

"You bet!" affirmed Trinidad.

"Nick! Nick!" called the Girl once more, and while the little barkeeper
went over to admit her the Wells Fargo Agent took his leave, calling
back after him:

"Well, boys, you've got him safe--I can't wait--I'm off!"

"Dep, untie the prisoner! Boys, circle round the bar! Trin, put a man at
that door! And Sonora, put a couple of men at those windows!" And so
swift were the men in carrying out his instructions, that even as he
spoke, everyone was at his post, the Sheriff himself and Sonora
remaining unseen but on guard at the doors, while the prisoner, edging
up close to the door, was not in evidence when the Girl entered.

"You can think of something to tell her--lie to her," had been the
Sheriff's parting suggestion.

"I'll let her think I risked coming back to see her again," had replied
the prisoner, his throat trembling.

"She won't know it's for the last time--we'll be there," had come
warningly from the Sheriff as he pointed to the door that led to the
bar-room.


     *     *     *     *     *     *


"Why, what have you got the door barred for?" asked the Girl as she came
into the room; and then without waiting for an answer: "Why, where are
the boys?"

"Well, you see, the boys--the boys has--has--" began Nick confusedly and
stopped.

From Marseilles he went to London, overwhelmed with debts, projecting
new ones, and always accompanied by women and creditors.

Colonel Warrington was long engaged in persevering researches, and
at length succeeded in finding a clue to this horrible mystery.

"You've been my
religion--the bar an' you. Why, you don't never want to leave us--why,
I'd drop dead for you."

"Nick, you're very nice to--" began the Girl, gratefully, and stopped,
for at that instant a gentle tap came upon the door. Turning swiftly,
she saw Johnson coming towards her.

"Girl!" he cried in an agony of joy, and held out his arms to receive
her.

"You? You?" she admonished softly.

"Don't say a word," he whispered hurriedly.

"You shouldn't have come back," she said with knitted brow.

"I had to--to say good-bye once more." And his voice was so filled with
tenderness that she readily forgave him for the indiscretion.

"It's all right, it's all right," murmured Nick, his hand still on the
door, which he had taken the precaution to bolt after the Girl had
passed through it.

There was a moment's silence; then, going over to the windows, the Girl
pulled down the curtains.

"The boys are good for quite a little bit," she said as she came back.
"Don't git nervous--I'll give you warnin' . . ."

Nick, unwilling to witness the heartrending scene which he foresaw would
follow, noiselessly withdrew into the bar-room, leaving the prisoner
alone with the Girl.

"Don't be afraid, my Girl," said Johnson, softly.

But the Girl's one thought, after her first gladness, was of his safety:

"But you can't git away now without bein' seen?"

"Yes, there's another way out of Cloudy,--and I'm going to take it."

The grimness of his meaning was lost on the Girl, who answered urgently:

"Then go--go! Don't wait, go now!"

The immortality of the soul, a true division of divinity, which,
at the time of its first promulgation, arriving after a long interval,
seemed a heresy to those faithful to the old dogma, has been none
the less considered the complement of divine majesty, necessarily
postulated by eternal goodness and justice.

Unless the soul is immortal, God is incomprehensible, say the theists;
resembling in this the political theorists who regard sovereign
representation and perpetual tenure of office as essential conditions
of monarchy.

But the inconsistency of the ideas is as glaring as the parity of
the doctrines is exact:
consequently the dogma of immortality soon became the stumbling-block
of philosophical theologians, who, ever since the days of Pythagoras
and Orpheus, have been making futile attempts to harmonize divine
attributes with human liberty, and reason with faith.

A subject of triumph for the impious! . . . .

But the illusion could not yield so soon: the dogma of immortality, for
the very reason that it was a limitation of the uncreated Being,
was a step in advance.

Now, though the human mind deceives itself by a partial acquisition
of the truth, it never retreats, and this perseverance in progress
is proof of its infallibility.

Of this we shall soon see fresh evidence.

In making himself like God, man made God like himself: this correlation,
which for many centuries had been execrated, was the secret spring which
determined the new myth.
Somethin' in my
heart keeps sayin', 'Don't let him go!'"

Johnson felt his knees sagging oddly beneath him. The Girl's sure
instinct of danger, the piteousness of their case, were making a coward
of him. He tore himself from her in a panic desire to go while he still
had the manhood to play his part to the end; then suddenly broke down
completely, and with his face buried in his hands, sobbed aloud.

"Why, Girl," he managed to say, brokenly, "it's been worth--the whole of
life just--to know you. You've brought me nearer Heaven,--you, to love a
man like me!"

"Don't say that, Oh, don't say that," she hastened to say with a great
tenderness in her voice. "S'pose you was only a road agent an' I was a
saloon keeper. We both came out o' nothin' an' we met, but through
lovin' we're goin' to reach things now--that's us. We had to be lifted
up like this to be saved."

Johnson tried to speak, but the words would not come. It was, therefore,
with a feeling of relief that, presently, he heard Nick at the door,
saying, "It's all clear now."

Johnson wheeled round, but Nick had flown. Turning once more to the
Girl, he said with trembling lips:

"Good-bye!"

The Girl's face wore a puzzled look, and she told him that he acted as
if they were never going to meet again.

"An' we are, we are, ain't we?" she questioned eagerly.

A faint little smile hovered about the corners of the road agent's mouth
when presently he answered:

"Why, surely we are . . ."

His words cleared her face instantly.

"I want you to think o' me here jest waitin'," she said. "You was the
first--there'll never be anyone but you. Why, you're the man I'd want
sittin' across the table if there was a little kid like I was playin'
under it. I can't say no more 'n that. Only you--you will--you must get
through safe an' come back--an' well, think o' me here jest waitin',
jest waitin', waitin' . . ."

At these words a tightness gripped the man's throat, and in the silence
that followed the tears ran steadily down his cheeks.

"Oh, Girl, Girl," at last he said, "that first night I went to your
cabin I saw you kneeling, praying. Say that in your heart again for me
now. The young man had heard that the preservation of the flesh, after
a hundred years' burial, counted for much in canonization, if it
did not suffice to justify it; and as the place where they had
deposited the sacred image was dark, D. had taken for life itself
the pink and white complexion common to such figures before time
has yellowed them.

Delsarte ended by being amused at his credulity; he laughed readily and
was not fond of sulking.

Nor must we forget that this preëminent tragedian was a perfect comedian,
and that this fact entitled him to true enjoyment of the humorous
side of life.

Have I not somewhere read:

"Beware of those who never laugh!"
Delsarte's piety--I speak of that of the letter--was seldom morose.

It did not forbid juvenile caprices; it overlooked _venial_ sins.

One Sunday he took his scholars to Nanterre, some to perform, others
to hear, a mass of his own composition. A few friends joined the party.
The mass over, they wandered into the country in groups. Some walked;
some sat upon the grassy turf. The air was pleasant, the conversation
animated; time passed quickly.

Suddenly the vesper bell was heard.

Some one drew Delsarte's attention to it--not without a tiny grain
of malice.

"Master, what a pity--you must leave us."
He made no answer.

When the second summons sounded, the same voice continued:

"There's no help for it; for us poor sinners, it's no matter! But you,
master, you cannot miss the mass!"

He put his hand to his head and considered.

"Bah!" he cried boldly, "I'll send my children."
Let me give another trait in illustration of the nature which from
time to time pierced through and rent the flimsy fabric of his opinions.
This anecdote is a political one.

Despite the precedent of an ultra democratic grandfather, and all
his plebeian tendencies as a philanthropist and a Christian, his
Catholic friends had inclined him toward monarchical ideas--although
he never actually sided with the militant portion of the party.

On one occasion, it happened that the two wings of this politico-religious
fusion disagreed.

As at Nanterre, Delsarte acted independently, and on this
occasion politics were the victim. It fell out as follows:

A claimant of the throne of France, still young, finding himself in
the Eternal City, had not, to all appearance, fulfilled his duties to the
Vatican promptly.

The first time that Delsarte encountered certain of those zealous
legitimists, who are said to be "more royalist than the king," he launched
this apostrophe at their heads:

"I hear that _your young man_ was in no haste to pay his respects to
His Holiness."

Thus, always free--even when he seemed to have forged chains for himself--he
obeyed his impulse without counting the cost. Never mind!
This childish outburst must have gladdened the manes of the ancestor
who connected the syllables in the patronymic name of Delsarte!

I hope I shall not forget, as my pen moves along, any of these
memories, insignificant to many minds, no doubt, but serving to
distinguish this figure from the vast mass of creation.

If, among my readers, some may say "pass on," others will enjoy these
trifles, and will thank me for writing them.

Thus, Delsarte was always pleased to think he bore the name of François
in memory of Francis of Assisi--not the Spaniard whom we know, but
the great saint of the twelfth century; he who "appeased quarrels,
settled differences, taught slaves and common men,--the poor man
who was good to the poor."

"The fish, the rabbits and the hares," the legend says, "placed themselves
in this fortunate man's hands." * * * * The birds were silent or
sang at his command.

"Be silent," said the saint to the swallows, "'tis my turn to talk
now.""You mean I set him free," came from Rance, his tone softer, gentler
than anyone had heard it in some time.

"You set 'im free?" repeated the Girl, timidly, and not daring to meet
his gaze.

"I let him go," announced the Sheriff in spite of himself.

"You let 'im go?" questioned the Girl, still in a daze.

"That's our verdict, an' we're prepared to back it up," declared Sonora
with a smile on his weathered face, though the tears streamed down his
cheeks.

The Girl's face illumined with a great joy. She did not stop now to
dissipate the tears which she saw rolling down Sonora's face, as was her
wont when any of the boys were grieved or distressed, but fairly flew
out of the cabin, calling half-frantically, half-ecstatically:

"Dick! Dick! You're free! You're free! You're free . . .!"

The minutes passed and still the miners did not move. They stood with an
air of solemnity gazing silently at one another. Only too well did they
realise what was happening to them. They were inconsolable. Presently,
Sonora, all in a heap on a bench, took out some tobacco and began to
chew it as fast as his mouth would let him; Happy, going over to the
teacher's desk, picked up the bunch of berries which he had presented
her at the opening of the school session and began to fondle them; while
Trinidad, too overcome to speak, stood leaning against the door, gazing
sadly in the direction that the Girl had taken. As for Rance, after
calling to Nick to bring him a drink, he quietly brought out a pack of
cards from his pocket and, seemingly, became absorbed in a game of
solitaire.

A little while later, his eyes still red from weeping, Nick remarked:

"The Polka won't never be the same, boys--the Girl's gone."


XVIII.


The soft and velvety blackness of night was giving place to a pearly
grey, and the feathery streaks of a trembling dawn were shooting
heavenward when a man, whose head had been pillowed on a Mexican saddle,
rose from the ground in front of a tepee, made of blankets on crossed
sticks, and seated himself on an old tree-stump where he proceeded to
light a cigarette.

In the little tepee, sheltered by an overhanging rock, the Girl was
still sleeping; and the man, sitting opposite the mound of earth and
rock on which it was built, was Johnson.

A week had passed since the lovers had left Cloudy Mountain, and each
day, at the moment when the sun burst above the snow-capped mountains,
found them up and riding slowly eastward. No attempt whatever was made
at haste, but, instead, now climbing easily to the top of the passes,
now descending into the valleys, they rode slowly on, ever loathe to
leave behind them the great forests and high mountains.

Noon of each day found them always resting in some glen where the sun
made golden lacework of the branches over their heads; while at the
approach of night when the great orb was no longer to be seen through
the tree-tops and twilight was fast settling upon the woods, they would
halt near a pool of a dancing brook where, with the relish of fatigue,
they would partake of their rations; and then, when the silences came
on, Johnson would proceed to put up with loving skill the Girl's rude
quarters and, stretching himself out on a gentle slope, covered with
pine needles matted close together, the man and the Girl would go to
sleep listening to the music of the stream as it gurgled and dashed
along, foaming and leaping, over the rocks and beneath the little
patches of snow forgotten by the sun. And to these two, whether in the
depths of the vast forest or, as now, at the edge of the merciless
desert, stretching away like a world without end, their environment
seemed nothing less than a paradise.

There were moments, however, in the long days, which could be devoted to
reflection; and often Johnson pondered over the strange fate that had
brought him under the influence--an influence which held him now and
which he earnestly prayed would continue to hold him--and into close
relationship with a character so different from his own. A contemplation
of his past life was wholly unnecessary, for the realisation had come to
him that it was her personality alone that had awakened his dormant
sense of what was right and what was wrong, and changed the course of
his life. That his future was full of possibilities, evil as well as
good, he was only too well aware; nevertheless, his faith in himself was
that of a strong man whose powers of resistance, in this case, would be
immeasurably strengthened by constant association with a stronger
character.

It was while he was in the midst of these thoughts that the Girl,
without letting him see her, quietly drew the blankets of the tepee a
little to one side and peered out at him. She, too, had not been without
her moments of meditation. Not that she regretted for an instant that
she had committed herself to him irrevocably but, rather, because she
feared lest he should find it difficult to detach himself, soul and
body, from the adventurous life he had been leading. Such painful
communings, however, were rare and quickly dismissed as unworthy of her;
and now as she looked at him with faith and joy in her eyes, it seemed
to her that never before had she seen him appear so resolute and strong,
and she rejoiced that he belonged to her. Our Italian had another specialty:
he was perpetually in search of some notorious somnambulist. It is a
well-known fact that the mental agitation caused by governmental
crises is very favorable to these pythonesses of modern times.

Each wishes to outrun the future and to afford himself at least an
illusion of the triumph of his party.

The oracles varied according to the opinion of the person who magnetized
these ladies, and, often, according to the presumed desire of the
audience.

Delsarte allowed himself to be drawn into these mysteries. He had time
for everything. It afforded him relaxation, and a means of
observation.

On one occasion, he followed the refugee to a garden where a person
of "perfect lucidity" prophesied.For some moments they stood side by side in silence, the man thinking of
the future, the woman serenely happy and lost in admiration of the calm
beauty of the scene which, in one direction, at least, differed greatly
from anything that she had ever beheld. Every night previous to the one
just passed they had encamped in the great forests; but now they looked
upon a vast expanse of level plain which to the north and east,
stretched trackless and unbroken by mountain or ravine to an
infinitude--the boundless prairies soon to be mellowed and turned to a
golden brown by the shafts of a burning sun already just below the edge
of an horizon aglow with opaline tints.

The Girl had ever been a lover of nature. All her life the mystery and
silences of the high mountains had appealed to her soul; but never until
now had she realised the marvellous beauty and glory of the great
plains. And yet, though her eyes shone with the wonder of it all, there
was an unmistakably sad and reminiscent note in the voice that presently
murmured:

"Another day."

After a while, and as if under the spell of some unseen power, she
slowly turned and faced the west where she gazed long and earnestly at
the panorama of the snow-capped peaks, rising range after range, all
tipped with dazzling light.

"Oh, Dick, look back!" she cried in distress. "The foothills are growin'
fainter." She paused, but suddenly with a far-off look in her eyes she
went on: "Every dawn--every dawn they'll be farther away. Some night
when I'm goin' to sleep I'll turn an' they won't be there--red an'
shinin'." Say, then, was right in saying: "The happiness of this class
(the consumers), composed of all the others, constitutes the general
well- being, the state of prosperity of a country."

Only he should have added that the happiness of the class of producers,
which also is composed of all the others, equally constitutes the
general well-being, the state of prosperity of a country.

So, when he says: "The fortune of each consumer is perpetually at war
with all that he buys," he should have added again: "The fortune
of each producer is incessantly attacked by all that he sells."

In the absence of a clear expression of this reciprocity, most economical
phenomena become unintelligible; and I will soon show how, in consequence
of this grave omission, most economists in writing their books have
talked wildly about the balance of trade.

I have just said that society produces first THE LEAST COSTLY, AND
CONSEQUENTLY MOST NECESSARY, THINGS.

Now, is it true that cheapness of products is always a correlative of
their necessity, and vice versa; so that these two words, NECESSITY
and CHEAPNESS, like the following ones, COSTLINESS and SUPERFLUITY, are
synonymes?

If each product of labor, taken alone, would suffice for the
existence of man, the synonymy in question would not be doubtful;
all products having the same qualities, those would be most
advantageously produced, and therefore the most necessary, which
cost the least.

"See," she cried with a quick transition of mood, "the sun has risen in
the East--far away--fair an' clear!"

Again Johnson held out his arms to her.

"A new day--a new life--trust me, Girl."

In silence she slipped one hand into his; then she bowed her head and
repeated solemnly:

"Yes--a new life."

Suddenly she drew a little away from him and faced the west again.
Clinging tightly now to him with one hand, and the other raised high
above her head, she cried in a voice that was fraught with such
passionate longing that the man felt himself stirred to the very depths
of his emotions:

"Oh, my mountains, I'm leavin' you! Oh, my California--my lovely
West--my Sierras, I'm leavin' you!" She ended with a sob; but the next
moment throwing herself into Johnson's arms she snuggled there,
murmuring lovingly: "Oh, my home!"

A little while later, happy in their love and fearlessly eager to meet
the trials of the days to come in a new country, they had mounted their
mustangs and were riding eastward.