Produced by David Widger


          A CONNECTICUT YANKEE IN KING ARTHUR'S COURT

                             by

                         MARK TWAIN
                     (Samuel L. Clemens)

                           Part 8.


CHAPTER XXXVI

AN ENCOUNTER IN THE DARK

London--to a slave--was a sufficiently interesting place.  It was
merely a great big village; and mainly mud and thatch.  The streets
were muddy, crooked, unpaved.  The populace was an ever flocking
and drifting swarm of rags, and splendors, of nodding plumes and
shining armor.  The king had a palace there; he saw the outside
of it.  It made him sigh; yes, and swear a little, in a poor
juvenile sixth century way.  We saw knights and grandees whom
we knew, but they didn't know us in our rags and dirt and raw
welts and bruises, and wouldn't have recognized us if we had hailed
them, nor stopped to answer, either, it being unlawful to speak
with slaves on a chain.  Sandy passed within ten yards of me on
a mule--hunting for me, I imagined.  But the thing which clean
broke my heart was something which happened in front of our old
barrack in a square, while we were enduring the spectacle of a man
being boiled to death in oil for counterfeiting pennies.  It was
the sight of a newsboy--and I couldn't get at him!  Still, I had
one comfort--here was proof that Clarence was still alive and
banging away.  I meant to be with him before long; the thought was
full of cheer.

I had one little glimpse of another thing, one day, which gave me
a great uplift.  It was a wire stretching from housetop to housetop.
Telegraph or telephone, sure.  I did very much wish I had a little
piece of it.  It was just what I needed, in order to carry out my
project of escape.  My idea was to get loose some night, along with
the king, then gag and bind our master, change clothes with him,
batter him into the aspect of a stranger, hitch him to the slave-chain,
assume possession of the property, march to Camelot, and--

But you get my idea; you see what a stunning dramatic surprise
I would wind up with at the palace.  "It's like a voice," she
thought. "I'll go somewhere else. It isn't nice just here. I
don't like it."
So she went back a little way to the edge of the forest, where
the trees were less thick, and between their stems she could
see the village below. Here she felt safer than she had been
when in the thick wood. She threw herself down in a comfortable
hollow at the foot of an oak, and, half sitting, half lying,
began to think over her wrongs.

"I guess if I was dead they'd be sorry," she reflected. "They'd hunt
and hunt for me, and not know where I was. And at last they'd come
up here, and find me dead, with a tear on my cheek, and then
they'd know how badly they had made me feel, and their hearts
would nearly break.
I don't believe father would ever smile again. He'd be like the
king in the 'Second Reader':--
'But waves went o'er his son's bright hair, He never smiled again.'

Only, I'm a daughter, and it would be leaves and not waves!
Mother, she'd cry and cry, and as for that old Wealthy"--but
Eyebright felt it difficult to imagine what Wealthy would do under
these circumstances.
Her thoughts drifted another way.

"I might go into a convent instead. That would be better, I guess.
I'd be a novice first, with a white veil and a cross and a rosary,
and I'd look so sweet and holy that all the other children,--no,
there wouldn't be any other children,--never mind!

--I'd be lovely, anyhow.
But I'd be a Protestant always! I wouldn't want to be a Catholic
and have to kiss the Pope's old toe all the time!

Then by and by I should take that awful black veil. Then I could
never come out any more--not ever! And I should kneel in the chapel
all the time as motionless as a marble figure. That would be
beautiful." Eyebright had never been able to sit still for half an
hour together in her life, but that made no difference in her
enjoyment of this idea. "The abbess will be beautiful, too, but
stern and unrelenting, and she'll say 'Daughters' when she speaks
to us nuns, and we shall say 'Holy Mother' when we speak to her."An ye will keep the offer open--"

"'Tis open till the morrow at this hour."

"Then I will answer you at that time," said the gentleman, and
disappeared, the master following him.

I had a time of it to cool the king down, but I managed it.
I whispered in his ear, to this effect:

"Your grace _will_ go for nothing, but after another fashion.  And
so shall I.  To-night we shall both be free."

"Ah!  How is that?"

"With this thing which I have stolen, I will unlock these locks
and cast off these chains to-night.  When he comes about nine-thirty
to inspect us for the night, we will seize him, gag him, batter
him, and early in the morning we will march out of this town,
proprietors of this caravan of slaves."

That was as far as I went, but the king was charmed and satisfied.
That evening we waited patiently for our fellow-slaves to get
to sleep and signify it by the usual sign, for you must not take
many chances on those poor fellows if you can avoid it.  It is
best to keep your own secrets.  No doubt they fidgeted only about
as usual, but it didn't seem so to me.  It seemed to me that they
were going to be forever getting down to their regular snoring.
As the time dragged on I got nervously afraid we shouldn't have
enough of it left for our needs; so I made several premature
attempts, and merely delayed things by it; for I couldn't seem
to touch a padlock, there in the dark, without starting a rattle
out of it which interrupted somebody's sleep and made him turn
over and wake some more of the gang.

But finally I did get my last iron off, and was a free man once
more.  I took a good breath of relief, and reached for the king's
irons.  To tell the truth, the look of the farm was rather
discouraging. He kicked the earth over with his foot, and said the
soil was poor and every thing seemed run down. But Eyebright would
not give in to this view at all. It was a lovely place, she insisted,
and she ran about discovering new beauties and advantages every
moment.

Now it was a thicket of wild roses just budding into leaf. Next
a patch of winter-green, with white starry blossoms and red
berries. Then, peeping over the bank, she called papa's attention
to a strip of pebbly beach on the side of the island next the
sea.

"Here's where we can take baths," she said. "Why, I declare,
here's a path down to it. I guess the people who used to live
here made it; don't you? Oh, do come and see the beach, papa!"

It was a rough little path which led to the beach, and overgrown with
weeds; but they made their way down without much trouble, and
Eyebright trampled the pebbles under foot with great satisfaction.

"Isn't it splendid!" she cried. "See that great stone close to
the bank, papa. We can go behind there to dress and undress.
It's a real nice place. I'm going to call it the 'The
Dressing-room.' How wide the sea is on this side! And what is that
long point of land, papa?"
For the island lay within a broad curving bay. One end of the curve
projected only a little way, but toward the north a long,
cape-like tongue of land, with a bold, hilly outline, ran out to
sea, and made a striking feature in the landscape.
"Those are the Guinness Hills," said Mr. Bright. "Canada begins
just the other side of them. Do you see those specks of white on
the point?
That is Malachi, and in the summer there is a steamboat once a week
from there to Portland. We can see it pass in clear weather, Mr.I tried to
imagine what would happen when the master should discover that
it was I who had been fighting him; and what would happen if they
jailed us together in the general apartment for brawlers and petty
law-breakers, as was the custom; and what might--

Just then my antagonist turned his face around in my direction,
the freckled light from the watchman's tin lantern fell on it,
and, by George, he was the wrong man!


CHAPTER XXXVII

AN AWFUL PREDICAMENT

Sleep?  It was impossible.  It would naturally have been impossible
in that noisome cavern of a jail, with its mangy crowd of drunken,
quarrelsome, and song-singing rapscallions.  But the thing that
made sleep all the more a thing not to be dreamed of, was my
racking impatience to get out of this place and find out the whole
size of what might have happened yonder in the slave-quarters
in consequence of that intolerable miscarriage of mine.

It was a long night, but the morning got around at last.  I made
a full and frank explanation to the court.  I said I was a slave,
the property of the great Earl Grip, who had arrived just after
dark at the Tabard inn in the village on the other side of the
water, and had stopped there over night, by compulsion, he being
taken deadly sick with a strange and sudden disorder.  I had been
ordered to cross to the city in all haste and bring the best
physician; I was doing my best; naturally I was running with all
my might; the night was dark, I ran against this common person
here, who seized me by the throat and began to pummel me, although
I told him my errand, and implored him, for the sake of the great
earl my master's mortal peril--

The common person interrupted and said it was a lie; and was going
to explain how I rushed upon him and attacked him without a word--

"Silence, sirrah!" from the court.  "Take him hence and give him
a few stripes whereby to teach him how to treat the servant of
a nobleman after a different fashion another time.  Go!"

Then the court begged my pardon, and hoped I would not fail
to tell his lordship it was in no wise the court's fault that this
high-handed thing had happened.  I said I would make it all right,
and so took my leave.  Took it just in time, too; he was starting
to ask me why I didn't fetch out these facts the moment I was
arrested.  I said I would if I had thought of it--which was true
--but that I was so battered by that man that all my wit was knocked
out of me--and so forth and so on, and got myself away, still
mumbling.  I didn't wait for breakfast.  "No, it isn't. My really
name is Charlotte P., only Mamma calls me Lotty. I don't like it
much. It's such a short name, just Lotty. Look here, you didn't
ever see me till to-day, so it can't make much difference to
you, so won't you please call me Charlotte P.? I'd like it so
much if you would."
Eyebright hastened to assure Charlotte P. of her willingness to
grant this slight favor.

"Are these little boys your brothers, Lot--Charlotte P., I mean?"
she asked.

"Oh, no!" cried Nelly."There were sixteen slaves here.  They rose against their master
in the night, and thou seest how it ended."

"Yes.  How did it begin?"

"There was no witness but the slaves.  They said the slave that
was most valuable got free of his bonds and escaped in some strange
way--by magic arts 'twas thought, by reason that he had no key,
and the locks were neither broke nor in any wise injured.  When
the master discovered his loss, he was mad with despair, and threw
himself upon his people with his heavy stick, who resisted and
brake his back and in other and divers ways did give him hurts
that brought him swiftly to his end."

He kept hold of her hand when the shake was over, and began to
talk in a very pleasant, kind voice, Eyebright thought.

"I didn't know that you were Mr.

Bright's little daughter when I asked the way to his house," he
said "Why didn't you tell me?

"Why, I don't see how they could determine which were the guilty
ones in so short a time."

