Produced by Tapio Riikonen and David Widger


THE ADVENTURES OF SIR LAUNCELOT GREAVES

by Tobias Smollett


With the Author's Preface, and an Introduction by G. H. Maynadier, Ph.D.
Department of English, Harvard University


CONTENTS


  INTRODUCTION

  CHAPTER
     I   In which certain Personages of this delightful History are
           introduced to the Reader's Acquaintance
    II   In which the Hero of these Adventures makes his First
           Appearance on the Stage of Action
   III   Which the Reader, on perusal, may wish were Chapter the last
    IV   In which it appears that the Knight, when heartily set in for
           sleeping, was not easily disturbed
     V   In which this Recapitulation draws to a close
    VI   In which the Reader will perceive that in some Cases Madness
           is catching
   VII   In which the Knight resumes his Importance
  VIII   Which is within a hair's-breadth of proving highly
           interesting will interest the Curiosity of the Reader
    IX   Which may serve to show, that true Patriotism is of no Party
     X   Which showeth that he who plays at Bowls, will sometimes meet
           with Rubbers
    XI   Description of a modern Magistrate
   XII   Which shows there are more Ways to kill a Dog than Hanging
  XIII   In which our Knight is tantalised with a transient Glimpse
           of Felicity
   XIV   Which shows that a Man cannot always sip, when the Cup is
           at his Lip
    XV   Exhibiting an Interview, which, it is to be hoped, will
           interest the Curiosity of the Reader
   XVI   Which, it is to be hoped, the Reader will find an agreeable
           Medley of Mirth and Madness, Sense and Absurdity
  XVII   Containing Adventures of Chivalry equally new and surprising
 XVIII   In which the Rays of Chivalry shine with renovated Lustre
   XIX   Containing the Achievements of the Knights of the Griffin and
           Crescent
    XX   In which our Hero descends into the Mansions of the Damned
   XXI   Containing further Anecdotes relating to the Children of
           Wretchedness
  XXII   In which Captain Crowe is sublimed into the Regions of
           Astrology
 XXIII   In which the Clouds that cover the Catastrophe begin to
           disperse
  XXIV   The Knot that puzzles human Wisdom, the Hand of Fortune
           sometimes will untie familiar as her Garter
   XXV   Which, it is to be hoped, will be, on more accounts than one,
           agreeable to the Reader


INTRODUCTION


It was on the great northern road from York to London, about the
beginning of the month of October, and the hour of eight in the evening,
that four travellers were, by a violent shower of rain, driven for
shelter into a little public-house on the side of the highway,
distinguished by a sign which was said to exhibit the figure of a black
lion.  The kitchen, in which they assembled, was the only room for
entertainment in the house, paved with red bricks, remarkably clean,
furnished with three or four Windsor chairs, adorned with shining plates
of pewter, and copper saucepans, nicely scoured, that even dazzled the
eyes of the beholder; while a cheerful fire of sea-coal blazed in the
chimney.

It would be hard to find a better beginning for a wholesome novel of
English life, than these first two sentences in The Adventures of Sir
Launcelot Greaves.  They are full of comfort and promise.  They promise
that we shall get rapidly into the story; and so we do.  They give us the
hope, in which we are not to be disappointed, that we shall see a good
deal of those English inns which to this day are delightful in reality,
and which to generations of readers, have been delightful in fancy.
Truly, English fiction, without its inns, were as much poorer as the
English country, without these same hostelries, were less comfortable.
For few things in the world has the so-called "Anglo-Saxon" race more
reason to be grateful than for good old English inns.  Finally there is a
third promise in these opening sentences of Sir Launcelot Greaves.  "The
great northern road!"  It was that over which the youthful Smollett made
his way to London in 1739; it was that over which, less than nine years
later, he sent us travelling in company with Random and Strap and the
queer people whom they met on their way.  And so there is the promise
that Smollett, after his departure in Count Fathom from the field of
personal experience which erstwhile he cultivated so successfully, has
returned to see if the ground will yield him another rich harvest.
Though it must be admitted that in Sir Launcelot Greaves his labours were
but partially successful, yet the story possesses a good deal of the
lively verisimilitude which Fathom lacked.  The very first page, as we
have seen, shows that its inns are going to be real.  So, too, are most
of its highway adventures, and also its portion of those prison scenes of
which Smollett seems to have been so fond.  As for the description of the
parliamentary election, it is by no means the least graphic of its kind
in the fiction of the last two centuries.  The speech of Sir Valentine
Quickset, the fox-hunting Tory candidate, is excellent, both for its
brevity and for its simplicity.  Any of his bumpkin audience could
understand perfectly his principal points: that he spends his estate of
"vive thousand clear" at home in old English hospitality; that he comes
of pure old English stock; that he hates all foreigners, not excepting
those from Hanover; and that if he is elected, he "will cross the
ministry in everything, as in duty bound."

In the characters, likewise, though less than in the scenes just spoken
of, we recognise something of the old Smollett touch.  True, it is not
high praise to say of Miss Aurelia Darnel that she is more alive, or
rather less lifeless, than Smollett's heroines have been heretofore.
Nor can we give great praise to the characterisation of Sir Launcelot.
Yet if less substantial than Smollett's roystering heroes, he is more
distinct than de Melvil in Fathom, the only one of our author's earlier
young men, by the way, (with the possible exception of Godfrey Gauntlet)
who can stand beside Greaves in never failing to be a gentleman.  It
is a pity, when Greaves's character is so lovable, and save for his
knight-errantry, so well conceived, that the image is not more distinct.
Crowe is distinct enough, however, though not quite consistently drawn.
There is justice in Scott's objection [Tobias Smollett in Biographical
and Critical Notices of Eminent Novelists] that nothing in the seaman's
"life .  .  .  renders it at all possible that he should have caught" the
baronet's Quixotism.  Otherwise, so far from finding fault with the old
sailor, we are pleased to see Smollett returning in him to a favourite
type.  It might be thought that he would have exhausted the possibilities
of this type in Bowling and Trunnion and Pipes and Hatchway.  In point
of fact, Crowe is by no means the equal of the first two of these.  And
yet, with his heart in the right place, and his application of sea terms
to land objects, Captain Samuel Crowe has a good deal of the rough charm
of his prototypes.  Still more distinct, and among Smollett's personages
a more novel figure, is the Captain's nephew, the dapper, verbose,
tender-hearted lawyer, Tom Clarke.  Apart from the inevitable Smollett
exaggeration, a better portrait of a softish young attorney could hardly
be painted.  Nor, in enumerating the characters of Sir Launcelot Greaves
who fix themselves in a reader's memory, should Tom's inamorata, Dolly,
be forgotten, or the malicious Ferret, or that precious pair, Justice and
Mrs. Gobble, or the Knight's squire, Timothy Crabshaw, or that very
individual horse, Gilbert, whose lot is to be one moment caressed, and
the next, cursed for a "hard-hearted, unchristian tuoad."

Barring the Gobbles, all these characters are important in the book from
first to last.  Sir Launcelot Greaves, then, is significant among
Smollett's novels, as indicating a reliance upon the personages for
interest quite as much as upon the adventures.  If the author failed in a
similar intention in Fathom, it was not through lack of clearly conceived
characters, but through failure to make them flesh and blood.  In that
book, however, he put the adventures together more skilfully than in Sir
Launcelot Greaves, the plot of which is not only rather meagre but also
far-fetched.  There seems to be no adequate reason for the baronet's whim
of becoming an English Don Quixote of the eighteenth century, except the
chance it gave Smollett for imitating Cervantes.  He was evidently
hampered from the start by the consciousness that at best the success of
such imitation would be doubtful.  Probably he expresses his own
misgivings when he makes Ferret exclaim to the hero: "What! .  .  .  you
set up for a modern Don Quixote?  The scheme is rather too stale and
extravagant.  What was a .  .  .  well-timed satire in Spain near two
hundred years ago, will .  .  .  appear .  .  .  insipid and absurd
 .  .  .  at this time of day, in a country like England."  Whether from
the author's half-heartedness or from some other cause, there is no
denying that the Quixotism in Sir Launcelot Greaves is flat.  It is a
drawback to the book rather than an aid.  The plot could have developed
itself just as well, the high-minded young baronet might have had just as
entertaining adventures, without his imitation of the fine old Spanish
Don.

I have remarked on the old Smollett touch in Sir Launcelot Greaves,--the
individual touch of which we are continually sensible in Roderick Random
and Peregrine Pickle, but seldom in Count Fathom.  With it is a new
Smollett touch, indicative of a kindlier feeling towards the world.  It
is commonly said that the only one of the writer's novels which contains
a sufficient amount of charity and sweetness is Humphry Clinker.  The
statement is not quite true.  Greaves is not so strikingly amiable as
Smollett's masterpiece only because it is not so striking in any of its
excellences; their lines are always a little blurred.  Still, it shows
that ten years before Clinker, Smollett had learned to combine the
contradictory elements of life in something like their right proportions.
If obscenity and ferocity are found in his fourth novel, they are no
longer found in a disproportionate degree.

There is little more to say of Sir Launcelot Greaves, except in the way
of literary history.  The given name of the hero may or may not be
significant.  It is safe to say that if a Sir Launcelot had appeared in
fiction one or two generations earlier, had the fact been recognised
(which is not indubitable) that he bore the name of the most celebrated
knight of later Arthurian romance, he would have been nothing but a
burlesque figure.  But in 1760, literary taste was changing.  Romanticism
in literature had begun to come to the front again, as Smollett had
already shown by his romantic leanings in Count Fathom.  With it there
came interest in the Middle Ages and in the most popular fiction of the
Middle Ages, the "greatest of all poetic subjects," according to
Tennyson, the stories of Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table,
which, for the better part of a century, had been deposed from their
old-time place of honour.  These stories, however, were as yet so
imperfectly known--and only to a few--that the most to be said is that
some connection between their reviving popularity and the name of
Smollett's knight-errant hero is not impossible.

Apart from this, Sir Launcelot Greaves is interesting historically as
ending Smollett's comparatively long silence in novel-writing after the
publication of Fathom in 1753.  His next work was the translation of Don
Quixote, which he completed in 1755, and which may first have suggested
the idea of an English knight, somewhat after the pattern of the Spanish.
Be that as it may, before developing the idea, Smollett busied himself
with his Complete History of England, and with the comedy, The Reprisal:
or the Tars of Old England, a successful play which at last brought about
a reconciliation with his old enemy, Garrick.  Two years later, in 1759,
as editor of the Critical Review, Smollett was led into a criticism of
Admiral Knowles's conduct that was judged libellous enough to give its
author three months in the King's Bench prison, during which time, it has
been conjectured, he began to mature his plans for the English Quixote.
The result was that, in 1760 and 1761, Sir Launcelot Greaves came out in
various numbers of the British Magazine.  Scott has given his authority
to the statement that Smollett wrote many of the instalments in great
haste, sometimes, during a visit in Berwickshire, dashing off the
necessary amount of manuscript in an hour or so just before the departure
of the post.  If the story is true, it adds its testimony to that of his
works to the author's extraordinarily facile pen.  Finally, in 1762, the
novel thus hurried off in instalments appeared as a whole.  This method
of its introduction to the public gives Sir Launcelot Greaves still
another claim to interest.  It is one of the earliest English novels,
indeed the earliest from the pen of a great writer, published in serial
form.

G. H. MAYNADIER.


THE ADVENTURES OF SIR LAUNCELOT GREAVES


CHAPTER ONE

IN WHICH CERTAIN PERSONAGES OF THIS DELIGHTFUL HISTORY ARE INTRODUCED TO
THE READER'S ACQUAINTANCE.


It was on the great northern road from York to London, about the
beginning of the month of October, and the hour of eight in the evening,
that four travellers were, by a violent shower of rain, driven for
shelter into a little public-house on the side of the highway,
distinguished by a sign which was said to exhibit the figure of a black
lion.  The kitchen, in which they assembled, was the only room for
entertainment in the house, paved with red bricks, remarkably clean,
furnished with three or four Windsor chairs, adorned with shining plates
of pewter, and copper saucepans, nicely scoured, that even dazzled the
eyes of the' beholder; while a cheerful fire of sea-coal blazed in the
chimney.  Three of the travellers, who arrived on horseback, having seen
their cattle properly accommodated in the stable, agreed to pass the
time, until the weather should clear up, over a bowl of rumbo, which was
accordingly prepared.  But the fourth, refusing to join their company,
took his station at the opposite side of the chimney, and called for a
pint of twopenny, with which he indulged himself apart.  At a little
distance, on his left hand, there was another group, consisting of the
landlady, a decent widow, her two daughters, the elder of whom seemed to
be about the age of fifteen, and a country lad, who served both as waiter
and ostler.

The social triumvirate was composed of Mr. Fillet, a country practitioner
in surgery and midwifery, Captain Crowe, and his nephew Mr. Thomas
Clarke, an attorney.  Fillet was a man of some education, and a great
deal of experience, shrewd, sly, and sensible.  Captain Crowe had
commanded a merchant ship in the Mediterranean trade for many years, and
saved some money by dint of frugality and traffic.  He was an excellent
seaman, brave, active, friendly in his way, and scrupulously honest; but
as little acquainted with the world as a sucking child; whimsical,
impatient, and so impetuous, that he could not help breaking in upon the
conversation, whatever it might be, with repeated interruptions, that
seemed to burst from him by involuntary impulse.  When he himself
attempted to speak he never finished his period; but made such a number
of abrupt transitions, that his discourse seemed to be an unconnected
series of unfinished sentences, the meaning of which it was not easy to
decipher.

His nephew, Tom Clarke, was a young fellow, whose goodness of
heart even the exercise of his profession had not been able to corrupt.
Before strangers he never owned himself an attorney without blushing,
though he had no reason to blush for his own practice, for he constantly
refused to engage in the cause of any client whose character was
equivocal, and was never known to act with such industry as when
concerned for the widow and orphan, or any other object that sued in
forma pauperis.  Indeed, he was so replete with human kindness, that as
often as an affecting story or circumstance was told in his hearing, it
overflowed at his eyes.  Being of a warm complexion, he was very
susceptible of passion, and somewhat libertine in his amours.  In other
respects, he piqued himself on understanding the practice of the courts,
and in private company he took pleasure in laying down the law; but he
was an indifferent orator, and tediously circumstantial in his
explanations.  His stature was rather diminutive; but, upon the whole, he
had some title to the character of a pretty, dapper, little fellow.

The solitary guest had something very forbidding in his aspect, which was
contracted by an habitual frown.  His eyes were small and red, and so
deep set in the sockets, that each appeared like the unextinguished snuff
of a farthing candle, gleaming through the horn of a dark lanthorn.  His
nostrils were elevated in scorn, as if his sense of smelling had been
perpetually offended by some unsavoury odour; and he looked as if he
wanted to shrink within himself from the impertinence of society.  He
wore a black periwig as straight as the pinions of a raven, and this was
covered with a hat flapped, and fastened to his head by a speckled
handkerchief tied under his chin.  He was wrapped in a greatcoat of brown
frieze, under which he seemed to conceal a small bundle.  His name was
Ferret, and his character distinguished by three peculiarities.  He was
never seen to smile; he was never heard to speak in praise of any person
whatsoever; and he was never known to give a direct answer to any
question that was asked; but seemed, on all occasions, to be actuated by
the most perverse spirit of contradiction.

Captain Crowe, having remarked that it was squally weather, asked how far
it was to the next market town; and understanding that the distance was
not less than six miles, said he had a good mind to come to an anchor for
the night, if so be as he could have a tolerable berth in this here
harbour.  Mr. Fillet, perceiving by his style that he was a seafaring
gentleman, observed that their landlady was not used to lodge such
company; and expressed some surprise that he, who had no doubt endured so
many storms and hardships at sea, should think much of travelling five or
six miles a-horseback by moonlight.  "For my part," said he, "I ride in
all weathers, and at all hours, without minding cold, wet, wind, or
darkness.  My constitution is so case-hardened that I believe I could
live all the year at Spitzbergen.  With respect to this road, I know
every foot of it so exactly, that I'll engage to travel forty miles upon
it blindfold, without making one false step; and if you have faith enough
to put yourselves under my auspices, I will conduct you safe to an
elegant inn, where you will meet with the best accommodation."  "Thank
you, brother," replied the captain, "we are much beholden to you for your
courteous offer; but, howsomever, you must not think I mind foul weather
more than my neighbours.  I have worked hard aloft and alow in many a
taut gale; but this here is the case, d'ye see; we have run down a long
day's reckoning; our beasts have had a hard spell; and as for my own hap,
brother, I doubt my bottom-planks have lost some of their sheathing,
being as how I a'n't used to that kind of scrubbing."

The doctor, who had practised aboard a man-of-war in his youth, and was
perfectly well acquainted with the captain's dialect, assured him that if
his bottom was damaged he would new pay it with an excellent salve, which
he always carried about him to guard against such accidents on the road.
But Tom Clarke, who seemed to have cast the eyes of affection upon the
landlady's eldest daughter, Dolly, objected to their proceeding farther
without rest and refreshment, as they had already travelled fifty miles
since morning; and he was sure his uncle must be fatigued both in mind
and body, from vexation, as well as from hard exercise, to which he had
not been accustomed.  Fillet then desisted, saying, he was sorry to find
the captain had any cause of vexation; but he hoped it was not an
incurable evil.  This expression was accompanied with a look of
curiosity, which Mr. Clarke was glad of an occasion to gratify; for, as
we have hinted above, he was a very communicative gentleman, and the
affair which now lay upon his stomach interested him nearly.

"I'll assure you, sir," said he, "this here gentleman, Captain Crowe, who
is my mother's own brother, has been cruelly used by some of his
relations.  He bears as good a character as any captain of a ship on the
Royal Exchange, and has undergone a variety of hardships at sea.  What
d'ye think, now, of his bursting all his sinews, and making his eyes
start out of his head, in pulling his ship off a rock, whereby he saved
to his owners"----Here he was interrupted by the captain, who
exclaimed, "Belay, Tom, belay; pr'ythee, don't veer out such a deal of
jaw.  Clap a stopper on thy cable and bring thyself up, my lad--what a
deal of stuff thou has pumped up concerning bursting and starting, and
pulling ships; Laud have mercy upon us!--look ye here, brother--look ye
here--mind these poor crippled joints; two fingers on the starboard, and
three on the larboard hand; crooked, d'ye see, like the knees of a
bilander.  I'll tell you what, brother, you seem to be a--ship deep
laden--rich cargo--current setting into the bay--hard gale--lee shore--
all hands in the boat--tow round the headland--self pulling for dear
blood, against the whole crew--snap go the finger-braces--crack went the
eye-blocks.  Bounce daylight--flash starlight--down I foundered, dark as
hell--whiz went my ears, and my head spun like a whirligig.  That don't
signify--I'm a Yorkshire boy, as the saying is--all my life at sea,
brother, by reason of an old grandmother and maiden aunt, a couple of old
stinking--kept me these forty years out of my grandfather's estate.
Hearing as how they had taken their departure, came ashore, hired horses,
and clapped on all my canvas, steering to the northward, to take
possession of my--But it don't signify talking--these two old piratical--
had held a palaver with a lawyer--an attorney, Tom, d'ye mind me, an
attorney--and by his assistance hove me out of my inheritance.  That is
all, brother--hove me out of five hundred pounds a year--that's all--what
signifies--but such windfalls we don't every day pick up along shore.
Fill about, brother--yes, by the L--d! those two smuggling harridans,
with the assistance of an attorney--an attorney, Tom--hove me out of five
hundred a year."  "Yes, indeed, sir," added Mr. Clarke, "those two
malicious old women docked the intail, and left the estate to an alien."

Here Mr. Ferret thought proper to intermingle in the conversation with a
"Pish, what dost talk of docking the intail?  Dost not know that by the
statute Westm. 2, 13 Ed. the will and intention of the donor must be
fulfilled, and the tenant in tail shall not alien after issue had, or
before."  "Give me leave, sir," replied Tom, "I presume you are a
practitioner in the law.  Now, you know, that in the case of a contingent
remainder, the intail may be destroyed by levying a fine, and suffering a
recovery, or otherwise destroying the particular estate, before the
contingency happens.  If feoffees, who possess an estate only during the
life of a son, where divers remainders are limited over, make a feoffment
in fee to him, by the feoffment, all the future remainders are destroyed.
Indeed, a person in remainder may have a writ of intrusion, if any do
intrude after the death of a tenant for life, and the writ ex gravi
querela lies to execute a device in remainder after the death of a tenant
in tail without issue."  "Spoke like a true disciple of Geber," cries
Ferret.  "No, sir," replied Mr. Clarke, "Counsellor Caper is in the
conveyancing way--I was clerk to Serjeant Croker."  "Ay, now you may set
up for yourself," resumed the other; "for you can prate as unintelligibly
as the best of them."

"Perhaps," said Tom, "I do not make myself understood; if so be as how
that is the case, let us change the position, and suppose that this here
case is a tail after a possibility of issue extinct.  If a tenant in tail
after a possibility make a feoffment of his land, he in reversion may
enter for the forfeiture.  Then we must make a distinction between
general tail and special tail.  It is the word body that makes the
intail: there must be a body in the tail, devised to heirs male or
female, otherwise it is a fee-simple, because it is not limited of what
body.  Thus a corporation cannot be seized in tail.  For example, here is
a young woman--What is your name, my dear?"  "Dolly," answered the
daughter, with a curtsey.  "Here's Dolly--I seize Dolly in tail--Dolly, I
seize you in tail"--"Sha't then," cried Dolly, pouting.  "I am seized of
land in fee--I settle on Dolly in tail."

Dolly, who did not comprehend the nature of the illustration, understood
him in a literal sense, and, in a whimpering tone, exclaimed, "Sha't
then, I tell thee, cursed tuoad!"  Tom, however, was so transported with
his subject, that he took no notice of poor Dolly's mistake, but
proceeded in his harangue upon the different kinds of tails, remainders,
and seisins, when he was interrupted by a noise that alarmed the whole
company.  The rain had been succeeded by a storm of wind that howled
around the house with the most savage impetuosity, and the heavens were
overcast in such a manner that not one star appeared, so that all without
was darkness and uproar.  This aggravated the horror of divers loud
screams, which even the noise of the blast could not exclude from the
ears of our astonished travellers.  Captain Crowe called out, "Avast,
avast!"  Tom Clarke sat silent, staring wildly, with his mouth still
open; the surgeon himself seemed startled, and Ferret's countenance
betrayed evident marks of confusion.  The ostler moved nearer the
chimney, and the good woman of the house, with her two daughters, crept
closer to the company.

After some pause, the captain starting up, "These," said he, "be signals
of distress.  Some poor souls in danger of foundering--let us bear up
a-head, and see if we can give them any assistance."  The landlady begged
him, for Christ's sake, not to think of going out, for it was a spirit
that would lead him astray into fens and rivers, and certainly do him a
mischief.  Crowe seemed to be staggered by this remonstrance, which his
nephew reinforced, observing, that it might be a stratagem of rogues to
decoy them into the fields, that they might rob them under the cloud of
night.  Thus exhorted, he resumed his seat, and Mr. Ferret began to make
very severe strictures upon the folly and fear of those who believed and
trembled at the visitation of spirits, ghosts, and goblins.  He said he
would engage with twelve pennyworth of phosphorus to frighten a whole
parish out of their senses; then he expatiated on the pusillanimity of
the nation in general, ridiculed the militia, censured the government,
and dropped some hints about a change of hands, which the captain could
not, and the doctor would not, comprehend.

Tom Clarke, from the freedom of his discourse, concluded he was a
ministerial spy, and communicated his opinion to his uncle in a whisper,
while this misanthrope continued to pour forth his invectives with a
fluency peculiar to himself.  The truth is, Mr. Ferret had been a party
writer, not from principle, but employment, and had felt the rod of
power, in order to avoid a second exertion of which, he now found it
convenient to skulk about in the country, for he had received intimation
of a warrant from the secretary of state, who wanted to be better
acquainted with his person.  Notwithstanding the ticklish nature of his
situation, it was become so habitual to him to think and speak in a
certain manner, that even before strangers whose principles and
connexions he could not possibly know, he hardly ever opened his mouth,
without uttering some direct or implied sarcasm against the government.

He had already proceeded a considerable way in demonstrating, that the
nation was bankrupt and beggared, and that those who stood at the helm
were steering full into the gulf of inevitable destruction, when his
lecture was suddenly suspended by a violent knocking at the door, which
threatened the whole house with inevitable demolition.  Captain Crowe,
believing they should be instantly boarded, unsheathed his hanger, and
stood in a posture of defence.  Mr. Fillet armed himself with the poker,
which happened to be red hot; the ostler pulled down a rusty firelock,
that hung by the roof, over a flitch of bacon.  Tom Clarke perceiving the
landlady and her children distracted with terror, conducted them, out of
mere compassion, below stairs into the cellar; and as for Mr. Ferret, he
prudently withdrew into an adjoining pantry.

But as a personage of great importance in this entertaining history was
forced to remain some time at the door before he could gain admittance,
so must the reader wait with patience for the next chapter, in which he
will see the cause of this disturbance explained much to his comfort and
edification.


CHAPTER TWO

IN WHICH THE HERO OF THESE ADVENTURES MAKES HIS FIRST APPEARANCE ON THE
STAGE OF ACTION.


The outward door of the Black Lion had already sustained two dreadful
shocks, but at the third it flew open, and in stalked an apparition that
smote the hearts of our travellers with fear and trepidation.  It was the
figure of a man armed cap-a-pee, bearing on his shoulders a bundle
dropping with water, which afterwards appeared to be the body of a man
that seemed to have been drowned, and fished up from the bottom of the
neighbouring river.

Having deposited his burden carefully on the floor, he addressed himself
to the company in these words: "Be not surprised, good people, at this
unusual appearance, which I shall take an opportunity to explain, and
forgive the rude and boisterous manner in which I have demanded, and
indeed forced admittance; the violence of my intrusion was the effect of
necessity.  In crossing the river, my squire and his horse were swept
away by the stream, and, with some difficulty, I have been able to drag
him ashore, though I am afraid my assistance reached him too late, for
since I brought him to land he has given no signs of life."

Here he was interrupted by a groan, which issued from the chest of the
squire, and terrified the spectators as much as it comforted the master.
After some recollection, Mr. Fillet began to undress the body, which was
laid in a blanket on the floor, and rolled from side to side by his
direction.  A considerable quantity of water being discharged from the
mouth of this unfortunate squire, he uttered a hideous roar, and, opening
his eyes, stared wildly around.  Then the surgeon undertook for his
recovery; and his master went forth with the ostler in quest of the
horses, which he had left by the side of the river.  His back was no
sooner turned, than Ferret, who had been peeping from behind the
pantry-door, ventured to rejoin the company; pronouncing with a smile,
or rather grin, of contempt, "Hey-day! what precious mummery is this?
What, are we to have the farce of Hamlet's ghost?"  "Adzooks," cried the
captain, "My kinsman Tom has dropped astern--hope in God a-has not bulged
to, and gone to bottom."  "Pish," exclaimed the misanthrope, "there's no
danger; the young lawyer is only seizing Dolly in tail."

Certain it is, Dolly squeaked at that instant in the cellar; and Clarke
appearing soon after in some confusion, declared she had been frightened
by a flash of lightning.  But this assertion was not confirmed by the
young lady herself, who eyed him with a sullen regard, indicating
displeasure, though not indifference; and when questioned by her mother,
replied, "A doan't maind what a-says, so a doan't, vor all his goalden
jacket, then."

In the meantime the surgeon had performed the operation of phlebotomy on
the squire, who was lifted into a chair, and supported by the landlady
for that purpose; but he had not as yet given any sign of having
retrieved the use of his senses.  And here Mr. Fillet could not help
contemplating, with surprise, the strange figure and accoutrements of his
patient, who seemed in age to be turned of fifty.  His stature was below
the middle size; he was thick, squat, and brawny, with a small
protuberance on one shoulder, and a prominent belly, which, in
consequence of the water he had swallowed, now strutted beyond its usual
dimensions.  His forehead was remarkably convex, and so very low, that
his black bushy hair descended within an inch of his nose; but this did
not conceal the wrinkles of his front, which were manifold.  His small
glimmering eyes resembled those of the Hampshire porker, that turns up
the soil with his projecting snout.  His cheeks were shrivelled and
puckered at the corners, like the seams of a regimental coat as it comes
from the hands of the contractor.  His nose bore a strong analogy in
shape to a tennis-ball, and in colour to a mulberry; for all the water of
the river had not been able to quench the natural fire of that feature.
His upper jaw was furnished with two long white sharp-pointed teeth or
fangs, such as the reader may have observed in the chaps of a wolf, or
full-grown mastiff, and an anatomist would describe as a preternatural
elongation of the dentes canini.  His chin was so long, so peaked, and
incurvated, as to form in profile, with his impending forehead, the exact
resemblance of a moon in the first quarter.  With respect to his
equipage, he had a leathern cap upon his head, faced like those worn by
marines, and exhibiting in embroidery, the figure of a crescent.  His
coat was of white cloth, faced with black, and cut in a very antique
fashion; and, in lieu of a waistcoat, he wore a buff jerkin.  His feet
were cased with loose buskins, which, though they rose almost to his
knee, could not hide that curvature, known by the appellation of bandy
legs.  A large string of bandaliers garnished a broad belt that graced
his shoulders, from whence depended an instrument of war, which was
something between a back-sword and a cutlass; and a case of pistols were
stuck in his girdle.

Such was the figure which the whole company now surveyed with admiration.
After some pause, he seemed to recover his recollection.  He rolled about
his eyes around, and, attentively surveying every individual, exclaimed,
in a strange tone, "Bodikins! where's Gilbert?"  This interrogation did
not savour much of sanity, especially when accompanied with a wild
stare, which is generally interpreted as a sure sign of a disturbed
understanding.  Nevertheless, the surgeon endeavoured to assist his
recollection.  "Come," said he, "have a good heart.--How dost do,
friend?"  "Do!" replied the squire, "do as well as I can.--That's a lie
too; I might have done better.  I had no business to be here."  "You
ought to thank God and your master," resumed the surgeon, "for the
providential escape you have had."  "Thank my master!" cried the squire,
"thank the devil!  Go and teach your grannum to crack filberds.  I know
who I'm bound to pray for, and who I ought to curse the longest day I
have to live."

Here the captain interposing, "Nay, brother," said he, "you are bound to
pray for this here gentleman as your sheet-anchor; for, if so be as he
had not cleared your stowage of the water you had taken in at your upper
works, and lightened your veins, d'ye see, by taking away some of your
blood, adad! you had driven before the gale, and never been brought up
in this world again, d'ye see."  "What, then you would persuade me,"
replied the patient, "that the only way to save my life was to shed my
precious blood?  Look ye, friend, it shall not be lost blood to me.--I
take you all to witness, that there surgeon, or apothecary, or farrier,
or dog-doctor, or whatsoever he may be, has robbed me of the balsam of
life.--He has not left so much blood in my body as would fatten a starved
flea.--O! that there was a lawyer here to serve him with a siserari."

Then fixing his eyes upon Ferret, he proceeded: "An't you a limb of the
law, friend?--No, I cry you mercy, you look more like a showman or a
conjurer."--Ferret, nettled at this address, answered, "It would be well
for you, that I could conjure a little common sense into that numskull of
yours."  "If I want that commodity," rejoined the squire, "I must go to
another market, I trow.--You legerdemain men be more like to conjure the
money from our pockets than sense into our skulls.  Vor my own part, I
was once cheated of vorty good shillings by one of your broother cups and
balls."  In all probability he would have descended to particulars, had
he not been seized with a return of his nausea, which obliged him to call
for a bumper of brandy.  This remedy being swallowed, the tumult in his
stomach subsided.  He desired he might be put to bed without delay, and
that half a dozen eggs and a pound of bacon might, in a couple of hours,
be dressed for his supper.

He was accordingly led off the scene by the landlady and her daughter;
and Mr. Ferret had just time to observe the fellow was a composition, in
which he did not know whether knave or fool most predominated, when the
master returned from the stable.  He had taken off his helmet, and now
displayed a very engaging countenance.  His age did not seem to exceed
thirty.  He was tall, and seemingly robust; his face long and oval, his
nose aquiline, his mouth furnished with a set of elegant teeth, white as
the drifted snow, his complexion clear, and his aspect noble.  His
chestnut hair loosely flowed in short natural curls; and his grey eyes
shone with such vivacity, as plainly showed that his reason was a little
discomposed.  Such an appearance prepossessed the greater part of the
company in his favour.  He bowed round with the most polite and affable
address; inquired about his squire, and, being informed of the pains Mr.
Fillet had taken for his recovery, insisted upon that gentleman's
accepting a handsome gratuity.  Then, in consideration of the cold bath
he had undergone, he was prevailed upon to take the post of honour;
namely, the great chair fronting the fire, which was reinforced with a
billet of wood for his comfort and convenience.

