"Yes," said her friend, "that's just when it was,--that very self-same
week. I was in the square listenin' to Gran'ma Mullins' everlastin' tale
of woe over Hiram 'n' Lucy, 'n' up come the blacksmith with a tale of
woe for myself. Now, Mrs. Lathrop, you know me 'n' you 've known me a
long time 'n' you 've heard me tell this a good many times 'n' yet I
want to ask you one time more,--_do_ you think any one but the
blacksmith 'n' Mr. Dill would ever have blamed me for the crick's
washing out back of the blacksmith's 'n' lettin' the anvil 'n' the hind
legs of Mr. Dill's horse slide out sudden? Of course, I own the
blacksmith shop 'n' of course I rent it, but--as I told him 'n' Mr. Dill
both that very day--nobody can't rent common sense nor yet keep track of
men's washouts 'n' horses' hind legs. I knowed all the time I was
walkin' towards the crick that it was goin' to be a bad business, but I
never expected to see nothin' as looked like Mr. Dill's horse, 'n' I
never again shall hope to see nothin' as 'll look like Mr. Dill's looks
as he looked at the horse. Not as his horse was n't worth lookin' at
either. His legs had gone out behind so far 'n' so unexpected that it
seemed like he could n't get them high enough 'n' close enough to suit
him, 'n' he just stood there drawin' them up alternate for all the world
like a fly on fly-paper. Mr. Dill said he felt like if his horse was n't
ever goin' to be able to h'ist his legs no quicker'n that he 'd have to
have damages, 'n' at that word I nigh to sat right down. I tell you
what, Mrs. Lathrop, Mr. Weskin has bred this damage idea too deep into
this town for any comfort. It 's got to where it's better to hurt
yourself most any way than to damage some one else only a little. I
would n't take the chances of sayin' 'shoo' to a hen on a slippery
mornin', 'n' things has come to a pretty pass when you 've got to
consider a hen's back-slidin's. Such bein' the case I felt more 'n a
little troubled when Mr. Dill said damages, but I tried to look on the
bright side, 'n' I told him that it seemed to me that a proper-minded
horse would have hauled in his legs when he felt himself slippin' in
half. Mr. Dill said his horse unfortunately could n't see with his tail
'n' was also brought up to consider anvils as solid. I answered as all I
could say was as it was a great pity as his horse was n't built enough
like the rest of the world to have better hindsight than foresight,--'n'
then I looked at the anvil in the crick--'n' then I come home."

"'N' that--" said Mrs. Lathrop, sadly.

"Yes, that very night!--it was that very night that the lightnin' struck
my house"--Susan halted a moment to turn and look at the house. "I never
will see why the lightnin' had to strike my house, Mrs. Lathrop, with
yours so handy right next door; but it did strike it--'n' me inside
sleepin' the sleep of the nigh to poverty-stricken 'n' done-up, 'n'
never as much as dreamin' of bein' woke by a brick bouncin' out of my
own flesh 'n' blood stove-hole. My heavens alive! what a night that was,
'n' even if nothin' catched fire everythin' in kingdom come rained in,
'n' when mornin' come 'n' I see what a small hole it was after all I
would n't ever have believed it if you 'd swore it till the week after
doomsday."

"And then--" said Mrs. Lathrop, sympathetically.

"Yes, 'n' then come the roof-mendin'. I never can feel to blame myself
there because I did n't want to pay no carpenter, 'n' you know yourself,
Mrs. Lathrop, as it looked just as easy to get up on that roof as to
fall off any other. I hung the shingles around my neck 'n' put the nails
in my mouth 'n' the hammer down my back, 'n' then I went up the lattice
'n' got over the little window on to the ridge-pole. You know, Mrs.
If my income mainly from tips or gratuities, and I must do so as if I were
not looking, his income mainly from fees, and he must also, as I well
understand, pretend as if he was not looking. - If he loves and socializing
him into his profession with all sorts of social classes is, of my
doing that too. If it is for a lawyer is not favorable, the son of a
waiter to be, it is also a waiter is not favorable, the father of a
lawyer to be. I assure you there are people who on the whole nerve see!
- Can I use anything else you care, Gracious Lord? (McNaughtan.) No,
thanks. (Humbled and bitter:) I hope you will have no objection that
I am here for a while still remain seated. Here Disruption 'I do not
in any event the Company at the beaches.

(The waiter moved:) It is very kind of you, Gracious Lord, that you act
as if you do not know that your presence here, an honor and a privilege
for us all ... really very kind! - The more you feel at home here, the
happier we will be. (McNaughtan with sharp irony:) At home! (The waiter
thoughtfully:) Well, Gracious Lord, this is matter of opinion.

I maintain always, the great advantage of a hotel is that it
offers protection against the family life. (McNaughtan.) I have this
blessing is not held. (The waiter). Yes, you have not - yes, God knows
! Always happens, not what you expected, huh? (He shakes his head:) You
never know, Gracious Lord - you never know! (He goes to the hotel.)
(McNaughtan based his abgehetztes, jammer full face with the hard-looking
eyes in their hands:) Family - family! (He put his arms on the table
and leans her head on, but just as he hears someone coming, he is back
to dead straight. It is Gloria, the only stages heraufkommt their umbrella
and her book in my hands. McNaughtan looks defiant. The brutal tenacity
of his mouth and eyes are yearning pathos in opposition to each other.
It goes to one end of the garden bench and leans with his back against
it and looks down on McNaughtan as surprised about his weakness. It is
curious to him, in order to stay cold, but that is their highest
Verwandtschaftverhältniß indifferent:) Well ... (Gloria.) I wish you a
moment to speak. (McNaughtan finds sight:) Really? That is surprising!
You meet your father after eighteen years and you truly wish him "a moment"
to speak - this is pathetic - really! (He remains seated, his head in
the hand based, and looks into gloomy reflection versunken down and it
continues.) * (Gloria.) What you say seems to me all so absurd, so
unreasonable. What feelings did you expect from us?

What should we do for you? Why are you against us less polite than
other people?

... You can not quite seem to suffer - why should you - but we should
meet each other but can not litigate. (McNaughtan, on its face a heavy
gray shadow strike:) Are you aware that I am thy Father am? (Gloria.)
Absolutely. (McNaughtan.) you understand what I deserve as your father?
(Gloria.) For example -?
We wrote a
paper 'n' signed it 'n' I went to bed, 'n' seemed like my trials were
certainly more than any mortal could stand under, particularly when you
consider that a good deal of the time I had n't been able to sit down.

"I don't see why any one should be surprised over me lookin' worried. It
says in the Bible that if you 'n' Mohamet ain't on the mountain you 're
bound to have the mountain 'n' Mohamet both on you, 'n' I must say I
believe it's true. I 've had to take the ten dollars as I never touch,
'n' the ten as I never will touch, 'n' the ten as I never will touch so
help me Heaven--'n' spend 'em all. 'N' I don't know what I am goin' to
do now, I 'm sure. Bein' yourself, Mrs. Lathrop, you can't in reason be
expected to understand what it is to me to have no one but you to turn
to. You 've got your good points, but you ain't no hand to have ideas
nor yet to advise. I 've been slow in comin' to that view of you, but I
've got to it at last, 'n' got over it, 'n' I 'm walkin' alone now on
the further side."

Mrs. Lathrop looked apologetic, but remained tritely silent. Susan
backed away from the fence.

"It 's gettin' damp," she said; "you 've got rheumatism anyway, so you
don't care if you take cold, but I ain't very anxious to, 'n' so I think
we 'd ought to go in."

Mrs. Lathrop nodded, and turned to go.

"I hope I have n't made you feel uneasy, Mrs. Lathrop," Susan said, as
she also turned; "you know me well enough to know as if I come to
starvation it would never be nothin' but a joy to me to see you starve
with me."

Mrs. Lathrop nodded.

Susan nodded.

And thus they parted for the night.


PART SECOND

GRAN'MA MULLINS'S WOE


It was some days later--a summer afternoon. The setting sun was
brightening the western sky, and Susan, with her bonnet on and her
sun-shade leaning beside her, sat on Mrs. Lathrop's porch and discoursed
in a fashion that partook alternately of the lively and of the dejected.
Mrs. Lathrop rocked calmly and listened yet more so.

"Things is goin' worse 'n' worse," said the caller; "I 've had to bring
myself down to doin' my own weedin', so as to save that ten cents a week
I give Augustus, 'n' Lord knows I 'd gladly put up anything for anybody,
but everybody in this town puts up themselves. I don't know how I will
get along if suthin' don't turn up, 'n' I can't see what can turn up
with every one head over ears deep in the weddin's 'n' young Doctor
Brown settin' the whole town mad over the crick. That 's a very strange
thing about the crick, Mrs. Lathrop, 'n' it seems to be pretty generally
admitted now that inside or out the crick 's good for most anything in
anybody, but this new idea as it 's a sure cure for asthma is just doin'
folks up alive. The only one of them, something is worth, has the
"father" referred to. (McNaughtan.) Yes, "goodbye, father" - adieu!
Oh, yes! This child has turned to my heart - with a Dolchstoß. (Dr.
Valentine, the very bad at:) Listen, McNaughtan, leave in peace! She has
treated you very well. I've got a lot worse Breakfast Time to persuade
than you. (McNaughtan.) You ... (Dr. Valentine with increasing ferocity:)
Yes - I am! I sat beside her and did during the entire time not a
single word spoken with her - not a single word I could find - and not
a word she had for me! (McNaughtan.) Now? (Dr. Valentine. ) Well ...
now ... (Speaks very seriously and always faster:) McNaughtan, you know
what today is made with me?. .. You do not believe that I have the
habit, so my patients along, as I have you today mitgespielt? (McNaughtan.)
I hope not. (Dr. Valentine.) The reason is that I am either totally
insane, or rather sooner never really in possession of my common
sense I had.

Now I am able to do anything - I'm finally grown up - I am become
a man - and your daughter is to a man made out of me!

(McNaughtan unbelievingly:) Are you in love with my daughter? (Dr.
Valentine, his words pour out now in a real flow from his lips:) Love
... Nonsense! ... It is much more and much higher than love ... it is
life, faith, strength, certainty, paradise ... (McNaughtan interrupts
him with biting scorn:) nonsense, man! What did (you) to a woman
to entertain ... You can not marry. (Dr. Valentine.) Who will they marry?
... I want to kiss her hands, I will kneel at her feet, I want to live,
I will die for them ... and that should satisfy me! Look at her
book - you see! (He kisses the handkerchief:) If you give me all your
money to sell these items that I serve as an excuse to go down the beach
and with her to speak again, - I would just laugh in the face. (He
goes against the wanton stages, where he was a waiter come up from the
beach straight into the arms running. The two keep each other
before overturning, they are mutually tightly around the waist to
embrace and hold upside down.) (The waiter delicately: ) Softly, Doctor
- gently! (Dr. Valentine about his own ferocity unpleasant affect:)
Excuse me! (The waiter). Please, doctor - please. This is quite natural
in your old age .-- The gracious lady took me to her book heraufgeschickt;
should I allow you to send it immediately to bring? (Dr. Valentine.)
With pleasure! - And you want me provide you with the taking of a
dental sechswöchentlichen to Treat ... (He offers him Dolly five-shilling
piece on.) (The waiter, as if this sum his highest expectations
überträfe:) Thank you, Mr. Doctor - a thousand thanks!
W.' let into it in green marbles. 'P. W.' stands for 'Polly
White,' 'n' Mr. Kimball told Mr. Macy they had a awful time over
sticking the marbles in 'n' a awful time gettin' the letters to suit.
The deacon was for 'P. W.' all along 'n' Polly was for the deacon, but
Mrs. Allen was for Polly's name, because Polly ain't married yet, 'n'
they got P. A. stuck in afore any one knowed how it'd look, 'n' then
they tried to patch it up with a 'W' added 'n' that seemed like it was a
new way to say to be sure 'n' wipe your feet. Mr. Kimball told Mrs. Macy
he nigh to died laughin', 'n' he did n't mind how he broke his nails
pickin' marbles in 'n' out when he could have so much fun. So they
settled for 'P. W.,' 'n' Mrs. Macy 's more than a little bitter over it
all, for she says the deacon 'll soon come to his senses 'n' then it'll
be too late to get that 'P. W.' off of his door-mat again. But the
deacon ain't carin'. He's friskin' around like a colt, 'n' they say he
's got two new suits of clothes 'n' a new hat for the goin' away. He was
always that way though--I recolleck Mr. Kimball's sayin' when Mrs. White
died that the deacon had been dyein' his hair 'n' bein' patient for over
fifteen years.

"Well--about them weddin' things of Polly's!--Mrs. Allen took me
upstairs 'n' I saw 'em all. The weddin' veil is looped along the
lamberquin with a glove pinned to each curtain, the dress hangs on a
frame between against the window shade, 'n' the under things is folded
on a table at one side with the stockin's tied together in a true
lovers'-knot. I must say they 've done it all real tasty, with the
deacon's picture in the middle leanin' up against her shoes. It 's a
open question about the shoes still, 'cause if Polly wears any shoes a
_tall_ it only makes her that much more higher than the deacon, but Mrs.
Allen says, seein' as it 's as it is, she hopes Polly 'll only think o'
how the higher her heels is the more room it 'll give her train to
spread. Continued - (The King and his entourage pass.) Ninth Scene.
Falstaff. Schallow Lord, I am a thousand pounds you owe.

Schallow. Yes, my soul, Sir John, and I ask you, give it to me again
home. Falstaff. This can hardly Seyn, Mr Schallow. Do not worry on this,
he will send for me secret, you see, before he had the people so like
thun. Seyde without concern for your transportation, but I want the man
Seyn that you do great.I 'm fond o'
Gran'ma Mullins, but these days Hiram is nothin' but a bottomless pit
when she gets at him, 'n' a honeymoon is a long time to hear one person
talk about one person. I can 't say as I ever had anythin' again Hiram
except that time 't he did n't catch Jathrop to lynch him, but all the
same I ain't over fond o' any one as goes around with their mouth
half-open the year through. Mr. Kimball said once as Hiram Mullins was
the best design for a penny bank as he ever saw, 'n' Polly Allen says
she 's more 'n sorry for Lucy, 'cause no matter how hard Lucy was to
try, Polly says it stands to reason as she could n't get more 'n half a
kiss at once. Mrs. Allen giggled, 'n' we all did, too, 'cause the deacon
carries his mouth so tight shut that it's a question if Polly ever gets
a kiss a _tall_.

"Mrs. Brown says Doctor Brown is gettin' surer 'n' surer about the
crick. He 's been paintin' the cat with asthma 'n' then washin' him in
crick water, 'n' Mrs. Brown says he wa'n't dead up to the time he run
away anyhow."

"That big--" queried Mrs. Lathrop.

"Yes, with the yellow eyes. He 's been gone a week, but they don't care.
Mrs. Brown says that cat was so everlastin'ly around that he made her
feel like she was married again, 'n' she was glad to have him light out.
In any case I will try. (Gloria finds:) You Sehn: anything goes, if it
is to vigorously end thinks. (McNaughtan with sudden fright:) No, you
do not! Think nothing - I will, thou shalt feel it! That is the only
thing that can help us. Hear! Do you know - but above all - I forgot:
how is you? I think your nickname. You can not thee well Sophronia
call. (Gloria astonished with reluctance:) Sophronia? ... My name is
Gloria. I will always be called. (McNaughtan, whose anger returns:)
Your name is Sophronia, girl! You were after your aunt, my sister, Sophronia
baptized! You did your first Bible with your name is a gift. (Gloria.)
Then my mother gave me a new name. (McNaughtan annoying:) You had no right
to do so! I will not admit! (Gloria.) They had no right to send me the
name of your sister to give.

I do not even know her.

(McNaughtan.) nonsense! Everything I do I can not offer: it has its
limits! I do not have - do you? (Gloria rises; warned:) Are you committed
to in this quarrelsome tone proceed? (McNaughtan horrified, pleading:)
No, no - sit down! Will you? (She sees him and lets him in uncertainty.
It compels to the hated name to pronounce:) Gloria! (You are their
satisfaction with a slight movement of the lips and expression is:)
So - you see, I only have the desire to show you that I am your father,
my - my dear child.

(The tenderness is so woefully inept that Gloria smiles against her
will and that makes a bit indulgent to be.)

Hear me. What I ask you, is as follows; correctly you do not I?
"You thought so," said Susan, "but nobody else ever did. Mothers is
always mothers 'n' the best will in the world don't seem able to help
'em out o' the scrape. There's Gran'ma Mullins just cryin' her eyes out
these days over Hiram, 'n' you 'd think Lucy was a sea-serpent and Hiram
was chained to a rock to hear her go on. She says she 's raised Hiram so
careful to be a comfort to her all these years 'n' she says he promised
her when he was only two 'n' a half years old that he 'd never smoke nor
drink nor get married. She says she 's trusted him all his life 'n' this
is the first time as he ever broke his word to her. She says all his
little ways is just so sweet, but she feels sure Lucy won't never let
him dip his bread in the platter-gravy 'n' Hiram 's so _awful_ fond of
platter-gravy. She says he likes to have the potato-smasher right by his
place at the table 'n' pound the meat to make more juice come out, 'n'
she says it 's been nothin' but a joy to her always to let him, 'cause
his father died when he wa'n't but eleven months old. But she says she
just knows Lucy 'll be death on Hiram's potato-smasher, 'n' she says she
most feels as if Lucy was goin' to be death on Hiram, too. She says she
can't look at Hiram these days without chokin' over thinkin' how Lucy 's
goin' to look at him inside o' three months. She says Hiram 's a very
tender nature, he can't be hurried awake mornin's, 'n' if he wakes up in
the night he _has_ to have gingerbread 'n' whistle till he drops off to
sleep again. She says no one as really loved Hiram would mind such
little trifles as that, but she says she has her doubts as to Lucy's
really lovin' Hiram, 'n' even if she does really love him now, she says
it ain't no reason as she 'll keep on lovin' him long. She says time
alone 'll tell what the end 'll be, 'n' she only hopes 'n' prays that
whatever Lucy does or does n't do, that she 'll never forget as she was
well 'n' richly warned beforehand, for she says she went herself in
streamin' tears 'n' begged her not to marry Hiram, an' she 's kept
straight on till now she 's almost done it."

Susan ceased speaking and took up her parasol.

"Are--" remonstrated Mrs. Lathrop.

"I must," said her neighbor; "I 'm hungry 'n' I want time to beat up
some soda-biscuit. It 's no use your askin' me to stay to supper,
because my heart is set on soda-biscuit 'n' I like my own better than
any one could ever like yours. I don't say that unkindly, Mrs. Lathrop,
for I ain't got a unkind thing about me, 'n' I could n't lay anything up
against you even if I wanted to. Even when I get all at outs with you
over your rockin' I never lay it up against you--we 've been friends too
many years. If you can be happy rockin' through life till some fine day
you rock over backward into your coffin, all I can say is that it won't
be my funeral, 'n' bein' as it will be yours, I shall be too busy that
day to fuss over ifs 'n' ands. Senn asked astonished. "Because they were
so hot," said This. The more and more amazed Senn. "But I'm already awake
at sunrise," he said. "When did you come up as?" "Today at five, or
four clock", stuttered fearful of this, "the milker was a long
time afterwards."

"What, you're the whole night up here have been, what hast thou
willed and done?

"Now saw the Franz Anton, that the this was quite anxious, but he
himself fell went back to the operations of the last night.

Quite paternally he patted the boy on the shoulder and said encouraging:
"Before I need you not to fear this. Since, drink another one, and
then tell me everything you know from then on, when you here did
come up. " This encouragement took out of this new courage.

       First he drank the milk in a few lines, because they tasted great.

Then he began to report: "I have just a little you wanted up here, but
just like all days, not because of the Käsfische. And because the
Milker long the milk had not come and you, I wanted you. And then I found
you on the ground, and you are red hot and thirsty and have been held.
Then I swiftly to swamp hole hinabgelaufen and have all the great picked
strawberries, which were still there, and have brought them to you.

And you have taken it gladly. But you have shown on the head and on
water demands. As I have from the hut Chen brought the bowl and the
small boiler, and on Pond brook, I have filled him. Then, I have the
bowl with the water on Chen's head geschüttet and also to drink, because
they have always had a thirst. When the boiler was empty, I'm over to
the stream and have it filled again . But because the water is always
so fast that, I thought was a thick cloth to cool the head better. And
I have the cloth out of the hut and brought it very wet on your head.
Only when it is dry and then was hot, I have again dipped into the
kettle and then wet again on the head did. In the morning you are awakened,
and I was happy, I've always thought that if you only not sick. "The
Senn had listened with great attention. Now everything was clear before
him, what he had experienced the night. He knew also, as he half-awake
in fever and the angel with the strawberries as a savior and then felt
the waters of the Bach Schwemme had felt and enjoyed. The Franz Anton
This looked to be silent and puzzled, as if he had never seen a boy.
No, he had such a never before seen. How was it possible that this
boy, all the stupid people just said this, had saved his life. If this
be the fever with the water removed, who knows what until morning it would
have become! And how did this this, nobody had a kind word, a sacrifice
to be able to capture the whole night at another and watched him the
habit! The big, strong Franz Anton came the tears in his eyes when
he was the shy, this installations and despised everything covered. He
now took the boy by the hand and said: "We want to remain good friends,
This, I have much to thank thee, that I will not forget. Do me a favor
just yet, I shake the limbs so that I now resign must. now you go
down to my mother and tell her she should come up to me, unless I'm not
entirely comfortable. You must also then come back with her, I have much
to talk with you today, do not forget it! " As long as he lived, this
was never been so happy. He started jumping down the hill as if he is
not high enough to jump up for joy. Now Senn had ordered him back, and
he no longer needed to hide, but the same could occur in the sheepfold.
Furthermore, the Franz Anton told him that he wanted good friend with him
to stay. In each of these thoughts of This jumped back up into
the air and soon came to the mother. Just when he top-down to clean
the house with the shimmering windows zurannte came from the bottom
up Sunday in the jewelry, the hymn book in hand, the Mountain Mother of
the Church. The boy ran towards her, but could not say first, because
he was breathless from running. "Where are you since?" asked the
Sunday-dressed woman who does not like something disorderly saw.
Disapproval mustered the boys from top to bottom, because he made no
appearance Sunday in his tattered life and the dirty panties Hemdlein.
"I mean, I've been over there on the stream view, you're probably one
of Hälmli-Sepp?" "No, just this," replied the boy very humbly.
This money question is nippin' me
sharper in the calves every day, and when Mrs. Macy told me yesterday as
her steps was givin' out I felt like sittin' down on 'em when they done
it. Lord knows, I 'd never be one to wave my flag from no post-hole in
the thick of no flight, 'n' you know yourself, Mrs. Lathrop, that as a
general thing I keep a stiff upper-cut through black and blue, but still
if Mrs. Macy's steps really do break down I feel like I shall have no
choice but to Jack-and-Jill it after 'em."

"Maybe--" suggested Mrs. Lathrop, hopefully.

"Well, I ain't a-expectin' it anyhow. I 'm expectin' ruin, 'n' I can
hear it howlin' and nosin' around my house all night long. Somethin' was
swimmin' in the cistern last night, too,--if it made the other side safe
I 'm all right, but if it drowned there 'll be another bill. It ain't no
use your tryin' to cheer me up, Mrs. Lathrop, because I ain't to be
cheered. I know I 'm goin' to the poorhouse, 'n' I don't thank you nor
no other man for tellin' me to my face as what I know ain't so. Gran'ma
Mullins 'n' me is two very sad hearts these days, 'n' Heaven help us
both. To hear her talk you 'd think the Siamese twins was the sun and
moon apart compared to her 'n' Hiram, 'n' now she 's got to give him up
to Lucy Dill. She says Lucy ain't old enough to appreciate Hiram; she
says Lucy 'll expect Hiram to be pleased, 'n' Hiram ain't never pleased;
she says when Hiram keeps still 'n' don't say nothin' he's pleased, 'n'
when he goes to bed 'n' to sleep right off he 's real pleased. She says
Lucy won't understand, 'n' then there 'll be trouble. She says trouble
is a awful thing to have, 'n' she knows all about it 'cause she had it
with her husband. She says the only good o' havin' trouble with your
husband is the comfort you get out o' talkin' about it, 'n' that when
she thinks as Lucy 'll get her comfort out o' talkin' about Hiram she
pretty nearly gets up and goes right out of her mind."

Susan stopped suddenly; she had been standing with her basket in her
hand, in the attitude of one arrested for a moment's inquiry, throughout
this conversation.

"Did you--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"Yes, I did. It was n't no great joy, pinched as I am, but I believe in
doin' what you can for people gettin' married--God help 'em--'n' I give
'em each somethin'. I give Lucy a very good pair of scissors as mother
had, as always grabs me in the joint so I can't use 'em, 'n' I give
Polly our best carvin' knife. They was both sharp things, so they each
had to give me a cent to hold on to friendship. I know two cents ain't
much, but it 's better 'n nothin', 'n' I may tell you in confidence,
Mrs. Lathrop, as all my presents 'll be sharp right along from now on."

Mrs. Lathrop raised her eyebrows to testify to the acute perception
which had grasped her friend's point at once.

"Are you--" she asked presently.

"Goin' to the weddin's?--oh, yes. It may make me a little blue to look
at Lucy, but it could n't but cheer anybody to compare themselves with
Gran'ma Mullins. She says it 's goin' to half murder her, 'n' she 's
made Hiram promise as he 'll give her his first husband's kiss. Lucy 's
got the idea as she 'll have a weddin' procession o' Mr. Dill 'n' her,
an' Hiram 'n' his mother, down the stairs 'n' in through the back
parlor. Hiram don't want to, 'cause he 's afraid his mother won't let go
of him when the time comes. Hiram says he ain't lived through these last
weeks o' half stranglin' without knowin' what he 's talkin' about all
right, but Lucy 's dead set on the procession. They 're goin' to try 'n'
keep Polly 'n' the deacon a little back 'n' out o' sight, 'cause there
's a many as thinks as half o' Gran'ma Mullins's tears is for the
deacon, only she can't say so. Mrs. Allen says every one is talkin' that
idea, 'n' Mrs. Sperrit says she hopes to Heaven as it ain't so, for how
the deacon is to be kept a little back God only knows, for he 's so
happy these days that he 's more than ever everlastin'ly on tap. Mrs.
Sperrit 's been very kind; she 's goin' to take Gran'ma Mullins to the
Dills', 'n' she says she 'll take her home afterwards. Gran'ma Mullins
is goin' to carry ammonia 'n' camphor, 'n' be sure an' have the corks
out of 'em both."

"I wish--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"Yes, I do, too," said her friend, heartily, "but I 'll come 'n' tell
you about them both right afterwards. I d'n know as I was ever more
curious in my life than I am to see how Lucy is going to claw Hiram free
long enough to marry him. 'N' I 'm interested in Polly's weddin', too.
But there is no use deceivin' you as to one thing, Mrs. Lathrop, 'n'
that is as what interests me the most of all, is what under the sun I 'm
goin' to do myself to get some money. I can't live on bread 'n' water
alone, 'n' even if I could, the flour 'll soon give out if I bread it
along steady for very long. This procedure of the king like me, it is
noble. He wants to have its usual partners with all Nöthiger Seyn be
supplied, but they are banished to a better performance with the world
they have reconciled. Lord Upper judges. That they are. Lancaster.
The King has his Parliament together beruffen Milord .

Lord upper judge. He has. Lancaster.

I wanted to bet that we, eh DISS year end, our civil Schwerdt for
France will bear.

if that ain't to-day's ten-o'clock comin' from
Meadville, 'n' me solemnly promised to be at Lucy's at half-past nine to
help Mrs. Macy stone raisins! Well, Mrs. Lathrop, I would n't have
believed it of you if I had n't been a eyewitness!--"


PART THIRD

LUCY DILL'S WEDDING


"Well, Lucy has got Hiram!"

There was such a strong inflection of triumphant joy in Miss Clegg's
voice as she called the momentous news to her friend that it would have
been at once--and most truthfully--surmised that the getting of Hiram
had been a more than slight labor.

Mrs. Lathrop was waiting by the fence, impatience written with a
wandering reflection all over the serenity of her every-day expression.
Susan only waited to lay aside her bonnet and mitts and then hastened to
the fence herself.

"Mrs. Since I now your turtle is not said why I should come, so I put
my artificial eye, because I believed that the natural eye, with which
I see in the countryside, here in the water would be of little use to
me or even could be damaged .
I tell you it looked once or twice as if it would
n't be a earthly possibility to marry Hiram away from his mother, 'n'
now that it 's all over people can't do anything but say as after all
Lucy ought to consider herself very lucky as things turned out, for if
things had n't turned out as they did turn out I don't believe anything
on earth could have unhooked that son, 'n' I 'm willin' to swear that
anywhere to any one.

