HISTORY OF JULIUS CAESAR

BY

JACOB ABBOTT

WITH ENGRAVINGS

1904


[Illustration: THE PIRATES AT ANCHOR.]


[Illustration]


PREFACE


It is the object of this series of histories to present a clear,
distinct, and connected narrative of the lives of those great personages
who have in various ages of the world made themselves celebrated as
leaders among mankind, and, by the part they have taken in the public
affairs of great nations, have exerted the widest influence on the
history of the human race. The end which the author has had in view is
twofold: first, to communicate such information in respect to the
subjects of his narratives as is important for the general reader to
possess; and, secondly, to draw such moral lessons from the events
described and the characters delineated as they may legitimately teach
to the people of the present age. Though written in a direct and simple
style, they are intended for, and addressed to, minds possessed of some
considerable degree of maturity, for such minds only can fully
appreciate the character and action which exhibits itself, as nearly all
that is described in these volumes does, in close combination with the
conduct and policy of governments, and the great events of
international history.


CONTENTS.


Chapter

   I. MARIUS AND SYLLA.
  II. CAESAR'S EARLY YEARS.
 III. ADVANCEMENT TO THE CONSULSHIP.
  IV. THE CONQUEST OF GAUL.
   V. POMPEY.
  VI. CROSSING THE RUBICON.
 VII. THE BATTLE OF PHARSALIA.
VIII. FLIGHT AND DEATH OF POMPEY.
  IX. CAESAR IN EGYPT.
   X. CAESAR IMPERATOR.
  XI. THE CONSPIRACY.
 XII. THE ASSASSINATION.


ENGRAVINGS.

THE PIRATES AT ANCHOR.
MAP OF ROME.
ROMAN PLEBEIANS.
A ROMAN FORUM.
THE LANDING IN ENGLAND.
CROSSING THE RUBICON.
ROMAN STANDARD-BEARERS.
DEATH OF POMPEY.
POMPEY'S PILLAR.
CLEOPATRA'S BARGE.
THE ELEPHANTS MADE TORCH-BEARERS.
POMPEY'S STATUE.
BURNING OF CAESAR'S BODY.

[Illustration: ANCIENT ROME.]


JULIUS CAESAR.

CHAPTER I.

MARIUS AND SYLLA.

[Sidenote: Three great European nations of antiquity.]

There were three great European nations in ancient days, each of which
furnished history with a hero: the Greeks, the Carthaginians, and
the Romans.

[Sidenote: Alexander.]

Alexander was the hero of the Greeks. He was King of Macedon, a country
lying north of Greece proper. He headed an army of his countrymen, and
made an excursion for conquest and glory into Asia. He made himself
master of all that quarter of the globe, and reigned over it in Babylon,
till he brought himself to an early grave by the excesses into which his
boundless prosperity allured him. His fame rests on his triumphant
success in building up for himself so vast an empire, and the admiration
which his career has always excited among mankind is heightened by the
consideration of his youth, and of the noble and generous impulses
which strongly marked his character.

[Sidenote: Hannibal.]
[Sidenote: His terrible energy.]

The Carthaginian hero was Hannibal. We class the Carthaginians among the
European nations of antiquity; for, in respect to their origin, their
civilization, and all their commercial and political relations, they
belonged to the European race, though it is true that their capital was
on the African side of the Mediterranean Sea. Hannibal was the great
Carthaginian hero. He earned his fame by the energy and implacableness
of his hate. The work of his life was to keep a vast empire in a state
of continual anxiety and terror for fifty years, so that his claim to
greatness and glory rests on the determination, the perseverance, and
the success with which he fulfilled his function of being, while he
lived, the terror of the world.

[Sidenote: Julius Caesar.]

The Roman hero was Caesar. He was born just one hundred years before the
Christian era. His renown does not depend, like that of Alexander, on
foreign conquests, nor, like that of Hannibal, on the terrible energy of
his aggressions upon foreign foes, but upon his protracted and dreadful
contests with, and ultimate triumphs over, his rivals and competitors at
home. When he appeared upon the stage, the Roman empire already
included nearly all of the world that was worth possessing. There were
no more conquests to be made. Caesar did, indeed, enlarge, in some
degree, the boundaries of the empire; but the main question in his day
was, who should possess the power which preceding conquerors
had acquired.

[Sidenote: The ancient Roman empire.]
[Sidenote: The provinces.]

The Roman empire, as it existed in those days, must not be conceived of
by the reader as united together under one compact and consolidated
government. It was, on the other hand, a vast congeries of nations,
widely dissimilar in every respect from each other, speaking various
languages, and having various customs and laws. They were all, however,
more or less dependent upon, and connected with, the great central
power. Some of these countries were provinces, and were governed by
officers appointed and sent out by the authorities at Rome. These
governors had to collect the taxes of their provinces, and also to
preside over and direct, in many important respects, the administration
of justice. They had, accordingly, abundant opportunities to enrich
themselves while thus in office, by collecting more money than they paid
over to the government at home, and by taking bribes to favor the rich
man's cause in court. Thus the more wealthy and prosperous provinces
were objects of great competition among aspirants for office at Rome.
Leading men would get these appointments, and, after remaining long
enough in their provinces to acquire a fortune, would come back to Rome,
and expend it in intrigues and maneuvers to obtain higher offices still.

[Sidenote: Foreign wars.]
[Sidenote: The victorious general.]

Whenever there was any foreign war to be carried on with a distant
nation or tribe, there was always a great eagerness among all the
military officers of the state to be appointed to the command. They each
felt sure that they should conquer in the contest, and they could enrich
themselves still more rapidly by the spoils of victory in war, than by
extortion and bribes in the government of a province in peace. Then,
besides, a victorious general coming back to Rome always found that his
military renown added vastly to his influence and power in the city. He
was welcomed with celebrations and triumphs; the people flocked to see
him and to shout his praise. He placed his trophies of victory in the
temples, and entertained the populace with games and shows, and with
combats of gladiators or of wild beasts, which he had brought home with
him for this purpose in the train of his army. While he was thus
enjoying his triumph, his political enemies would be thrown into the
back ground and into the shade; unless, indeed, some one of them might
himself be earning the same honors in some other field, to come back in
due time, and claim his share of power and celebrity in his turn. In
this case, Rome would be sometimes distracted and rent by the conflicts
and contentions of military rivals, who had acquired powers too vast for
all the civil influences of the Republic to regulate or control.

[Illustration: ROMAN PLEBEIANS.]

[Sidenote: Military rivals.]
[Sidenote: Marius and Sylla.]
[Sidenote: The patricians and plebeians.]
[Sidenote: Civil contests.]
[Sidenote: Quarrel about the command of the army.]
[Sidenote: Sylla's violence.]

There had been two such rivals just before the time of Caesar, who had
filled the world with their quarrels. They were Marius and Sylla. Their
very names have been, in all ages of the world, since their day, the
symbols of rivalry and hate. They were the representatives respectively
of the two great parties into which the Roman state, like every other
community in which the population at large have any voice in governing,
always has been, and probably always will be divided, the upper and the
lower; or, as they were called in those days, the patrician and the
plebeian. Sylla was the patrician; the higher and more aristocratic
portions of the community were on his side. Marius was the favorite of
the plebeian masses. In the contests, however, which they waged with
each other, they did not trust to the mere influence of votes. They
relied much more upon the soldiers they could gather under their
respective standards and upon their power of intimidating, by means of
them, the Roman assemblies. There was a war to be waged with
Mithridates, a very powerful Asiatic monarch, which promised great
opportunities for acquiring fame and plunder. Sylla was appointed to the
command. While he was absent, however, upon some campaign in Italy,
Marius contrived to have the decision reversed, and the command
transferred to him Two officers, called tribunes, were sent to Sylla's
camp to inform him of the change. Sylla killed the officers for daring
to bring him such a message, and began immediately to march toward Rome.
In retaliation for the murder of the tribunes, the party of Marius in
the city killed some of Sylla's prominent friends there, and a general
alarm spread itself throughout the population. The Senate, which was a
sort of House of Lords, embodying mainly the power and influence of the
patrician party, and was, of course, on Sylla's side, sent out to him,
when he had arrived within a few miles of the city, urging him to come
no further. He pretended to comply; he marked out the ground for a camp;
but he did not, on that account, materially delay his march. The next
morning he was in possession of the city. The friends of Marius
attempted to resist him, by throwing stones upon his troops from the
roofs of the houses. Sylla ordered every house from which these
symptoms of resistance appeared to be set on fire. Thus the whole
population of a vast and wealthy city were thrown into a condition of
extreme danger and terror, by the conflicts of two great bands of armed
men, each claiming to be their friends.

[Sidenote: Defeat of Marius.]

Marius was conquered in this struggle, and fled for his life. Many of
the friends whom he left behind him were killed. The Senate were
assembled, and, at Sylla's orders, a decree was passed declaring Marius
a public enemy, and offering a reward to any one who would bring his
head back to Rome.

[Sidenote: His flight.]

Marius fled, friendless and alone, to the southward, hunted every where
by men who were eager to get the reward offered for his head. After
various romantic adventures and narrow escapes, he succeeded in making
his way across the Mediterranean Sea, and found at last a refuge in a
hut among the ruins of Carthage. He was an old man, being now over
seventy years of age.

[Sidenote: Return of Marius.]
[Sidenote: He marches against Rome.]

Of course, Sylla thought that his great rival and enemy was now finally
disposed of, and he accordingly began to make preparations for his
Asiatic campaign. He raised his army, built and equipped a fleet, and
went away. As soon as he was gone, Marius's friends in the city began to
come forth, and to take measures for reinstating themselves in power.
Marius returned, too, from Africa, and soon gathered about him a large
army. Being the friend, as he pretended, of the lower classes of
society, he collected vast multitudes of revolted slaves, outlaws, and
other desperadoes, and advanced toward Rome. He assumed, himself, the
dress, and air, and savage demeanor of his followers. His countenance
had been rendered haggard and cadaverous partly by the influence of
exposures, hardships, and suffering upon his advanced age, and partly by
the stern and moody plans and determinations of revenge which his mind
was perpetually revolving. He listened to the deputations which the
Roman Senate sent out to him from time to time, as he advanced toward
the city, but refused to make any terms. He moved forward with all the
outward deliberation and calmness suitable to his years, while all the
ferocity of a tiger was burning within.

[Sidenote: Executions by order of Marius.]

As soon as he had gained possession of the city, he began his work of
destruction. He first beheaded one of the consuls, and ordered his head
to be set up, as a public spectacle, in the most conspicuous place in
the city. This was the beginning. All the prominent friends of Sylla,
men of the highest rank and station, were then killed, wherever they
could be found, without sentence, without trial, without any other
accusation, even, than the military decision of Marius that they were
his enemies, and must die. For those against whom he felt any special
animosity, he contrived some special mode of execution. One, whose fate
he wished particularly to signalize, was thrown down from the
Tarpeian Rock.

[Sidenote: The Tarpeian Rock.]

The Tarpeian Rock was a precipice about fifty feet high, which is still
to be seen in Rome, from which the worst of state criminals were
sometimes thrown. They were taken up to the top by a stair, and were
then hurled from the summit, to die miserably, writhing in agony after
their fall, upon the rocks below.

[Sidenote: The story of Tarpeia.]
[Sidenote: Subterranean passages.]

The Tarpeian Rock received its name from the ancient story of Tarpeia.
The tale is, that Tarpeia was a Roman girl, who lived at a time in the
earliest periods of the Roman history, when the city was besieged by an
army from are of the neighboring nations. Besides their shields, the
story is that the soldiers had golden bracelets upon their arms. They
wished Tarpeia to open the gates and let them in. She promised to do so
if they would give her their bracelets; but, as she did not know the
name of the shining ornaments, the language she used to designate them
was, "Those things you have upon your arms." The soldiers acceded to her
terms; she opened the gates, and they, instead of giving her the
bracelets, threw their _shields_ upon her as they passed, until the poor
girl was crushed down with them and destroyed. This was near the
Tarpeian Rock, which afterward took her name. The rock is now found to
be perforated by a great many subterranean passages, the remains,
probably, of ancient quarries. Some of these galleries are now walled
up; others are open; and the people who live around the spot believe, it
is said, to this day, that Tarpeia herself sits, enchanted, far in the
interior of these caverns, covered with gold and jewels, but that
whoever attempts to find her is fated by an irresistible destiny to lose
his way, and he never returns. The last story is probably as true as
the other.

[Sidenote: Escape of Sylla's wife.]

Marius continued his executions and massacres until the whole of Sylla's
party had been slain or put to flight. He made every effort to discover
Sylla's wife and child, with a view to destroying them also, but they
could not be found. Some friends of Sylla, taking compassion on their
innocence and helplessness, concealed them, and thus saved Marius from
the commission of one intended crime. Marius was disappointed, too, in
some other cases, where men whom he had intended to kill destroyed
themselves to baffle his vengeance. One shut himself up in a room with
burning charcoal, and was suffocated with the fumes. There is
certainly a great deal of entertainment in his comic humours, and a
pleasing and well distinguished variety in those characters he thought
fit to exhibit with.

His images are indeed every where
so lively, that the thing he would represent stands full before
you, and you possess every part of it; of which this instance is
astonishing: it is an image of patience.

Speaking of a maid in love, he says,
------She never told her love, But let concealment, like a worm i'th'bud,
Feed on her damask cheek: She pin'd in thought, And sat like patience
on a monument.
Smiling at grief.

But what is characteristically the talent of Shakespear, and which perhaps
is the most excellent part of the drama, is the manners of his
persons, in acting and in speaking what is proper for them, and fit
to be shewn by the Poet, in making an apparent difference between his
characters, and marking every one in the strongest manner.

Poets who have not a little succeeded in writing for the stage, have yet
fallen short of their great original in the general power of the
drama; none ever found so ready a road to the heart; his tender
scenes are inexpressibly moving, and such as are meant to raise
terror, are no less alarming; but then Shakespeare does not much
shine when he is considered by particular passages; he sometimes
debases the noblest images in nature by expressions which are too
vulgar for poetry.

The ingenious author of the
Rambler has observed, that in the invocation of Macbeth, before
he proceeds to the murder of Duncan, when he thus expresses himself,

---------Come thick night And veil thee, in the dunnest smoke of
hell, Nor heaven peep thro' the blanket of the dark, To cry hold,
hold.

That the words dunnest and blanket, which are so common in vulgar mouths,
destroy in some manner the grandeur of the image, and were two words
of a higher signification, and removed above common use, put in their
place, I may challenge poetry itself to furnish an image so noble. Poets
of an inferior class, when considered by particular passages, are excellent,
but then their ideas are not so great, their drama is not so striking,
and it is plain enough that they possess not souls so elevated as
Shakespeare's. What can be more beautiful than the flowing
enchantments of Rowe; the delicate and tender touches of Otway and
Southern, or the melting enthusiasm of Lee and Dryden, but yet none of
their pieces have affected the human heart like Shakespeare's.

But I cannot conclude the character of Shakespeare, without taking notice,
that besides the suffrage of almost all wits since his time in his
favour, he is particularly happy in that of Dryden, who had read
and studied him clearly, sometimes borrowed from him, and well knew
where his strength lay.

In his Prologue to the Tempest
altered, he has the following
lines;

Shakespear, who taught by none, did first impart, To Fletcher wit,
to lab'ring Johnson, art.
He, monarch-like gave there his subjects law, And is that nature which
they paint and draw; Fletcher reached that, which on his heights did grow,
While Johnson crept, and gathered all below:
This did his love, and this his mirth digest, One imitates him most,
the other best.
If they have since outwrit all other men, 'Tis from the drops which
fell from Shakespear's pen.
The storm[2] which vanished on the neighb'ring shore Was taught by
Shakespear's Tempest first to roar.
That innocence and beauty which did smile In Fletcher, grew in this
Inchanted Isle.
But Shakespear's magic could not copied be, Within that circle none
durst walk but he.

The plays of this great author, which are forty-three in number, are
as follows,
1. The Tempest, a Comedy acted in the Black Fryars with applause.

2. The Two Gentlemen of Verona, a Comedy writ at the command of Queen
Elizabeth.

3. The first and second part of King Henry IV the character of
Falstaff in these plays is justly esteemed a master-piece; in the
second part is the coronation of King Henry V. These are founded
upon English Chronicles.

4. The Merry Wives of Windsor, a Comedy, written at the command of
Queen Elizabeth.

5. Measure for Measure, a Comedy; the plot of this play is taken from
Cynthio Ciralni.

6. The Comedy of Errors, founded upon Plautus's Mænechmi.

7.

Much Ado About Nothing,
a Comedy; for the plot see Ariosto's Orlando
Furioso.

8. Love's Labour Lost, a Comedy.

9. Midsummer's Night's Dream, a Comedy.

10. The Merchant of Venice, a Tragi-Comedy.

11. As you Like it, a Comedy.

12. The Taming of a Shrew, a Comedy.

13. All's Well that Ends Well.

14. The Twelfth-Night, or What you Will, a Comedy. In this play there is
something singularly ridiculous in the fantastical steward Malvolio;
part of the plot taken from Plautus's Mænechmi.

15. The Winter's Tale, a Tragi-Comedy; for the plot of this play consult
Dorastus and Faunia.

16. The Life and Death of King John, an historical play.

17.

The Life and Death of
King Richard II. a Tragedy.

18. The Life of King Henry V. an historical play.

19. The First Part of King Henry VI. an historical play.

20. The Second Part of King Henry VI. with the death of the good Duke
Humphrey.

21. The Third Part of King Henry VI. with the death of the Duke of
York. These plays contain the whole reign of this monarch.

22. The Life and Death of Richard III. with the landing of the Earl of
Richmond, and the battle of Bosworth field. In this part Mr. Garrick was
first distinguished.

23. The famous history of the Life of King Henry VIII.

24. Troilus and Cressida, a Tragedy; the plot from Chaucer.

25. Coriolanus, a Tragedy; the story from the Roman History.

26. Titus Andronicus, a Tragedy.

27. Romeo and Juliet, a Tragedy; the plot from Bandello's Novels.
This is perhaps one of the most affecting plays of Shakespear: it
was not long since acted fourteen nights together at both houses,
at the same time, and it was a few years before revived and acted
twelve nights with applause at the little theatre in the Hay
market.

28.

Timon of Athens, a Tragedy;
the plot from Lucian's Dialogues.

29. Julius Cæsar, a Tragedy.

30.

The Tragedy of Macbeth; the plot from Buchanan, and other Scotch
writers.

31. Hamlet Prince of Denmark, a Tragedy.

32. King Lear, a Tragedy; for the plot see Leland, Monmouth.

33. Othello the Moor of Venice, a Tragedy; the plot from Cynthio's
Novels.

34. Anthony and Cleopatra; the story from Plutarch.

35. Cymbeline, a Tragedy; the plot from Boccace's Novels.

36. Pericles Prince of Tyre, an historical play.

37. The London Prodigal, a Comedy.

38. The Life and Death of Thomas Lord Cromwell, the favourite of King
Henry VIII.

39. The History of Sir John Oldcastle, the good Lord
Cobham, a Tragedy. See Fox's Book of Martyrs.

40. The Puritan, or the Widow of Watling-street, a Comedy.

41. A Yorkshire Tragedy; this is rather an Interlude than a Tragedy, being
very short, and not divided into Acts.

42. The Tragedy of Locrine, the eldest son of King Brutus. See
the story in Milton's History of England.

Our age, which demonstrates its
taste in nothing so truly and justly as in the admiration it pays
to the works of Shakespear, has had the honour of raising a monument
for him in Westminster Abbey; to effect which, the Tragedy of Julius
Cæsar was acted at the Theatre Royal in Drury Lane, April 28, 1738,
and the profits arising from it deposited in the hands of the earl
of Burlington, Mr.

Pope, Dr. Mead, and others, in order to be laid out upon the said
monument. A new Prologue and Epilogue were spoken on that occasion; the
Prologue was written by Benjamin Martyn esquire; the Epilogue by the
hon. James Noel esquire, and spoke by Mrs. Porter. On Shakespear's
monument there is a noble epitaph, taken from his own Tempest, and is
excellently appropriated to him; with this let us close his life, only
with this observation, that his works will never be forgot, 'till that
epitaph is fulfilled.--When
The cloud capt towers, the gorgeous palaces, The solemn temples, the
great globe itself And all which it inherit shall dissolve, And
like the baseless fabric of a vision Leave not a wreck behind.

[Footnote 1: Preface to Shakespear]
[Footnote 2: Alluding to the sea voyage of Fletcher.]
* * * * *

JOSHUA SYLVESTER,
The translator of the famous Du Bartas's Weeks and Works; was cotemporary
with George Chapman, and flourished in the end of Elizabeth and King
James's reign; he was called by the poets in his time, the silver-tongu'd
Sylvester, but it is doubtful whether he received any academical
education. In his early years he is reported to have been a merchant
adventurer.[1] Queen Elizabeth is said to have had a respect for him,
her successor still a greater, and Prince Henry greater than his
father; the prince so valued our bard, that he made him his first
Poet-Pensioner.

He was not more celebrated for his poetry, than his extraordinary
private virtues, his sobriety and sincere attachment to the duties
of religion.

He was also remarkable for his fortitude and resolution in combating
adversity: we are further told that he was perfectly acquainted
with the French, Italian, Latin, Dutch and Spanish languages.

And it is related of him, that by endeavouring to correct the vices
of the times with too much asperity, he exposed himself to the
resentment of those in power, who signified their displeasure, to
the mortification and trouble of the author.

Our poet gained more reputation by the translation of Du Bartas, than by
any of his own compositions. Besides his Weeks and Works, he translated
several other productions of that author, namely, Eden[2], the Deceit,
the Furies, the Handicrafts, the Ark, Babylon, the Colonies, the Columns,
the Fathers, Jonas, Urania, Triumph of Faith, Miracle of Peace, the
Vocation, the Daw; the Captains, the Trophies, the Magnificence,
&c. also a Paradox of Odes de la Nove, Baron of Teligni with the
Quadrians of Pibeac; all which translations were generally well
received; but for his own works, which were bound up with them,
they received not, says Winstanley, so general an approbation, as
may be seen by these verses:
We know thou dost well, As a translator But where things require A
genius and fire,
Not kindled before by others pains, As often thou hast wanted
brains.

In the year 1618 this author died at Middleburgh in Zealand, aged
55 years, and had the following epitaph made on him by his great
admirer John Vicars beforementioned, but we do not find that it was
put upon his tomb-stone.

Here lies (death's too rich prize) the corpse interr'd Of Joshua Sylvester
Du Bartas Pier; A man of arts best parts, to God, man, dear; In foremost
rank of poets best preferr'd.

[Footnote 1: Athenæ Oxon. p. 594.]
[Footnote 2: Winstanley, Lives of the Poets, p. 109.]
* * * * *

SAMUEL DANIEL
Was the son of a music master, and born near Taunton in Somersetshire,
in the year 1562. In 1579 he was admitted a commoner in Magdalen Hall in
Oxford, where he remained about three years, and by the assistance
of an excellent tutor, made a very great proficiency in academical
learning; but his genius inclining him more to studies of a gayer
and softer kind, he quitted the University, and applied himself to
history and poetry.

His own merit, added to the recommendation
of his brother in law, (John Florio, so well known for his Italian
Dictionary) procured him the patronage of Queen Anne, the consort
of King James I.
who was pleased to confer on him the honour of being one of the
Grooms of the Privy-Chamber, which enabled him to rent a house near
London, where privately he composed many of his dramatic pieces.

He was tutor to Lady Ann Clifford, and on the death of the great
Spenser, he was appointed Poet Laureat to Queen Elizabeth.
Towards the end of his life he retired to a farm which he had at
Beckington near Philips Norton in Somersetshire, where after some time
spent in the service of the Muses, and in religious contemplation,
he died in the year 1619. He left no issue by his wife Justina, to
whom he was married several years. Wood says, that in the wall over
his grave there is this inscription;
Here lies expecting the second coming of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ,
the dead body of Samuel Daniel esquire, that excellent poet and
historian, who was tutor to Lady Ann Clifford in her youth, she that
was daughter and heir to George Clifford earl of Cumberland; who in
gratitude to him erected this monument to his memory a long time after,
when she was Countess Dowager of Pembroke, Dorset and Montgomery.

He died in October, Anno
1619.

Mr. Daniel's poetical works, consisting of dramatic and other pieces,
are as follow;
1. The Complaint of Rosamond.

2. A Letter from Octavia to Marcus Antonius, 8vo. 1611.

These two pieces resemble each other, both in subject and stile, being
written in the Ovidian manner, with great tenderness and variety of
passion. The measure is Stanzas of seven lines. Let the following specimen
shew the harmony and delicacy of his numbers, where he makes Rosamond
speak of beauty in as expressive a manner as description can
reach.

Ah! beauty Syren, fair inchanting good, Sweet silent rhetoric of
persuading eyes; Dumb eloquence whose power doth move the blood,
More than the words or wisdom of the wife; Still harmony whose
diapason lies, Within a brow; the key which passions move, To ravish
sense, and play a world in love.
3. Hymen's Triumph, a Pastoral Tragi-Comedy presented at the Queen's
Court in the Strand, at her Majesty's entertainment of the King,
at the nuptials of lord Roxborough, London, 1623, 4to. It is
introduced by a pretty contrived Prologue by way of dialogue, in
which Hymen is opposed by avarice, envy and jealousy; in this piece
our author sometimes touches the passions with a very delicate
hand.
4. The Queen's Arcadia, a Pastoral Tragi-Comedy, presented before
her Majesty by the university of Oxford, London 1623, 4to.
5. The Vision of the Twelve Goddesses, presented in a Masque the
8th of January at Hampton-Court, by the Queen's most excellent
Majesty and her Ladies. London 1604, 8vo. and 1623, 4to. It is
dedicated to the Lady Lucy, countess of Bedford. His design under
the shapes, and in the persons of the Twelve Goddesses, was to
shadow out the blessings which the nation enjoyed, under the peaceful
reign of King James I. By Juno was represented Power; by Pallas
Wisdom and Defence; by Venus, Love and Amity; by Vesta, Religion;
by Diana, Chastity; by Proserpine, Riches; by Macaria, Felicity;
by Concordia, the Union of Hearts; by Astræa, Justice; by Flora,
the Beauties of the Earth; by Ceres, Plenty; and by Tathys, Naval
Power.
6. The Tragedy of Philotas, 1611, 8vo. it is dedicated to the Prince,
afterwards King Charles I.
This play met with some opposition, because it was reported that
the character of Philotas was drawn for the unfortunate earl of
Essex, which obliged the author to vindicate himself from this
charge, in an apology printed at the end of the play; both this
play, and that of Cleopatra, are written after the manner of the
ancients, with a chorus between each act.
7. The History of the Civil Wars between the Houses of York and
Lancaster, a Poem in eight books, London, 1604, in 8vo. and 1623,
4to.
with his picture before it.
8. A Funeral Poem on the Death of the Earl of Devonshire, London,
1603, 4to.
9. A Panegyric Congratulatory, delivered to the King at Burleigh-Harrington
in Rutlandshire, 1604 and 1623, 4to.
10. Epistles to various great Personages in Verse, London, 1601 and
1623, 4to.
11. The Passion of a Distressed Man, who being on a tempest on the
sea, and having in his boat two women (of whom he loved the one who
disdained him, and scorned the other who loved him) was, by command
of Neptune, to cast out one of them to appease the rage of the
tempest, but which was referred to his own choice. If the reader
is curious to know the determination of this man's choice, it is
summed up in the concluding line of the poem.
She must be cast away, that would not save.
12. Musophilus, a Defence of Learning; written dialogue-wise,
addressed to Sir Fulk Greville.

13.[Sidenote: The Forum.]
[Sidenote: Its porticoes and statues.]
[Sidenote: Attractions of the Forum.]

It most not be supposed, however, that this popular power was shared by
all the inhabitants of the city. At one time, when the population of the
city was about three millions the number of free citizens was only three
hundred thousand. The rest were laborers, artisans, and slaves, who had
no voice in public affairs. The free citizens held very frequent public
assemblies. There were various squares and open spaces in the city where
such assemblies were convened, and where courts of justice were held.
The Roman name for such a square was _forum_. There was one which was
distinguished above all the rest, and was called emphatically The Forum.
It was a magnificent square, surrounded by splendid edifices, and
ornamented by sculptures and statues without number. There were ranges
of porticoes along the sides, where the people were sheltered from the
weather when necessary, though it is seldom that there is any necessity
for shelter under an Italian sky. In this area and under these porticoes
the people held their assemblies, and here courts of justice were
accustomed to sit. The Forum was ornamented continually with new
monuments, temples, statues, and columns by successful generals
returning in triumph from foreign campaigns, and by proconsuls and
praetors coming back enriched from their provinces, until it was
fairly choked up with its architectural magnificence, and it had at last
to be partially cleared again, as one would thin out too dense a forest,
in order to make room for the assemblies which it was its main function
to contain.

[Illustration: A ROMAN FORUM]

[Sidenote: Harangues and political discussions.]

The people of Rome had, of course, no printed books, and yet they were
mentally cultivated and refined, and were qualified for a very high
appreciation of intellectual pursuits and pleasures. In the absence,
therefore, of all facilities for private reading, the Forum became the
great central point of attraction. The same kind of interest which, in
our day, finds its gratification in reading volumes of printed history
quietly at home, or in silently perusing the columns of newspapers and
magazines in libraries and reading-rooms, where a whisper is seldom
heard, in Caesar's day brought every body to the Forum, to listen to
historical harangues, or political discussions, or forensic arguments in
the midst of noisy crowds. Here all tidings centered; here all questions
were discussed and all great elections held. Here were waged those
ceaseless conflicts of ambition and struggles of power on which the fate
of nations, and sometimes the welfare of almost half mankind depended.
Of course, every ambitious man who aspired to an ascendency over his
fellow-men, wished to make his voice heard in the Forum. To calm the
boisterous tumult there, and to hold, as some of the Roman orators could
do, the vast assemblies in silent and breathless attention, was a power
as delightful in its exercise as it was glorious in its fame. Caesar had
felt this ambition, and had devoted himself very earnestly to the study
of oratory.

[Sidenote: Apollonius.]
[Sidenote: Caesar studies under him.]

His teacher was Apollonius, a philosopher and rhetorician from Rhodes.
Rhodes is a Grecian island, near the southwestern coast of Asia Minor
Apollonius was a teacher of great celebrity, and Caesar became a very
able writer and speaker under his instructions. His time and attention
were, in fact, strangely divided between the highest and noblest
intellectual avocations, and the lowest sensual pleasures of a gay and
dissipated life. The coming of Sylla had, however, interrupted all; and,
after receiving the dictator's command to give up his wife and abandon
the Marian faction, and determining to disobey it, he fled suddenly from
Rome, as was stated at the close of the last chapter, at midnight, and
in disguise.

[Sidenote: Caesar's wanderings.]
[Sidenote: He is seized by a centurion.]

He was sick, too, at the time, with an intermittent fever. The paroxysm
returned once in three or four days, leaving him in tolerable health
during the interval. He went first into the country of the Sabines,
northeast of Rome, where he wandered up and down, exposed continually to
great dangers from those who knew that he was an object of the great
dictator's displeasure, and who were sure of favor and of a reward if
they could carry his head to Sylla He had to change his quarters every
day, and to resort to every possible mode of concealment. He was,
however, at last discovered, and seized by a centurion. A centurion was
a commander of a hundred men; his rank and his position therefore,
corresponded somewhat with those of a _captain_ in a modern army. Caesar
was not much disturbed at this accident. He offered the centurion a
bribe sufficient to induce him to give up his prisoner, and so escaped.

[Sidenote: Caesar in Asia Minor.]
[Sidenote: He joins the court of Nicomedes.]

The two ancient historians, whose records contain nearly all the
particulars of the early life of Caesar which are now known, give
somewhat contradictory accounts of the adventures which befell him
during his subsequent wanderings. They relate, in general, the same
incidents, but in such different connections, that the precise
chronological order of the events which occurred can not now be
ascertained. At all events, Caesar, finding that he was no longer safe
in the vicinity of Rome, moved gradually to the eastward, attended by a
few followers, until he reached the sea, and there he embarked on board
a ship to leave his native land altogether. After various adventures and
wanderings, he found himself at length in Asia Minor, and he made his
way at last to the kingdom of Bithynia, on the northern shore. The name
of the king of Bithynia was Nicomedes. Caesar joined himself to
Nicomedes's court, and entered into his service. In the mean time, Sylla
had ceased to pursue him, and ultimately granted him a pardon, but
whether before or after this time is not now to be ascertained. At all
events, Caesar became interested in the scenes and enjoyments of
Nicomedes's court, and allowed the time to pass away without forming any
plans for returning to Rome.

[Sidenote: Cilicia.]
[Sidenote: Character of its inhabitants.]

On the opposite side of Asia Minor, that is, on the southern shore,
there was a wild and mountainous region called Cilicia. The great chain
of mountains called Taurus approaches here very near to the sea, and the
steep conformations of the land, which, in the interior, produce lofty
ranges and summits, and dark valleys and ravines, form, along the line
of the shore, capes and promontories, bounded by precipitous sides, and
with deep bays and harbors between them. The people of Cilicia were
accordingly half sailors, half mountaineers. They built swift galleys,
and made excursions in great force over the Mediterranean Sea for
conquest and plunder. They would capture single ships, and sometimes
even whole fleets of merchantmen. They were even strong enough on many
occasions to land and take possession of a harbor and a town, and hold
it, often, for a considerable time, against all the efforts of the
neighboring powers to dislodge them. In case, however, their enemies
became at any time too strong for them, they would retreat to their
harbors, which were so defended by the fortresses which guarded them,
and by the desperate bravery of the garrisons, that the pursuers
generally did not dare to attempt to force their way in; and if, in any
case, a town or a port was taken, the indomitable savages would continue
their retreat to the fastnesses of the mountains, where it was utterly
useless to attempt to follow them.

[Sidenote: The Cilicians wanting in poets and historians.]
[Sidenote: Robbers and pirates.]

But with all their prowess and skill as naval combatants, and their
hardihood as mountaineers, the Cilicians lacked one thing which is very
essential in every nation to an honorable military fame. They had no
poets or historians of their own, so that the story of their deeds had
to be told to posterity by their enemies. If they had been able to
narrate their own exploits, they would have figured, perhaps, upon the
page of history as a small but brave and efficient maritime power,
pursuing for many years a glorious career of conquest, and acquiring
imperishable renown by their enterprise and success. As it was, the
Romans, their enemies, described their deeds and gave them their
designation. They called them robbers and pirates; and robbers and
pirates they must forever remain.

[Sidenote: Depredations of the Cilicians.]

And it is, in fact, very likely true that the Cilician commanders did
not pursue their conquests and commit their depredations on the rights
and the property of others in quite so systematic and methodical a
manner as some other conquering states have done. They probably seized
private property a little more unceremoniously than is customary; though
all belligerent nations, even in these Christian ages of the world, feel
at liberty to seize and confiscate private property when they find it
afloat at sea, while, by a strange inconsistency, they respect it on
the land. The Cilician pirates considered themselves at war with all
mankind, and, whatever merchandise they found passing from port to port
along the shores of the Mediterranean, they considered lawful spoil.
They intercepted the corn which was going from Sicily to Rome, and
filled their own granaries with it. They got rich merchandise from the
ships of Alexandria, which brought, sometimes, gold, and gems, and
costly fabrics from the East; and they obtained, often, large sums of
money by seizing men of distinction and wealth, who were continually
passing to and fro between Italy and Greece, and holding them for a
ransom. They were particularly pleased to get possession in this way of
Roman generals and officers of state, who were going out to take the
command of armies, or who were returning from their provinces with the
wealth which they had accumulated there.

[Sidenote: Expeditions sent against them.]
[Sidenote: Boldness and courage of the Cilicians.]

Many expeditions were fitted out and many naval commanders were
commissioned to sup press and subdue these common enemies of mankind, as
the Romans called them. At one time, while a distinguished general,
named Antonius, was in pursuit of them at the head of a fleet, a party
of the pirates made a descent upon the Italian coast, south of Rome, at
Nicenum, where the ancient patrimonial mansion of this very Antonius was
situated, and took away several members of his family as captives, and
so compelled him to ransom them by paying a very large sum of money. The
pirates grew bolder and bolder in proportion to their success. They
finally almost stopped all intercourse between Italy and Greece, neither
the merchants daring to expose their merchandise, nor the passengers
their persons to such dangers. They then approached nearer and nearer to
Rome, and at last actually entered the Tiber, and surprised and carried
off a Roman fleet which was anchored there. Caesar himself fell into the
hands of these pirates at some time during the period of his wanderings.

[Sidenote: They capture Caesar.]

The pirates captured the ship in which he was sailing near Pharmacusa, a
small island in the northeastern part of the Aegean Sea. He was not at
this time in the destitute condition in which he had found himself on
leaving Rome, but was traveling with attendants suitable to his rank,
and in such a style and manner as at once made it evident to the pirates
that he was a man of distinction. They accordingly held him for ransom,
and, in the mean time, until he could take measures for raising the
money, they kept him a prisoner on board the vessel which had
captured him.

[Sidenote: Caesar's air of superiority.]
[Sidenote: His ransom.]

In this situation, Caesar, though entirely in the power and at the mercy
of his lawless captors, assumed such an air of superiority and command
in all his intercourse with them as at first awakened their
astonishment, then excited their admiration, and ended in almost
subjecting them to his will. He asked them what they demanded for his
ransom. They said twenty talents, which was quite a large amount, a
talent itself being a considerable sum of money. Caesar laughed at this
demand, and told them it was plain that they did not know who he was, He
would give them _fifty_ talents. He then sent away his attendants to the
shore, with orders to proceed to certain cities where he was known, in
order to procure the money, retaining only a physician and two servants
for himself. While his messengers were gone, he remained on board
the ship of his captors, assuming in every respect the air and manner of
their master. When he wished to sleep, if they made a noise which
disturbed him, he sent them orders to be still. He joined them in their
sports and diversions on the deck, surpassing them in their feats, and
taking the direction of every thing as if he were their acknowledged
leader. He wrote orations and verses which he read to them, and if his
wild auditors did not appear to appreciate the literary excellence of
his compositions, he told them that they were stupid fools without any
taste, adding, by way of apology, that nothing better could be expected
of such barbarians.

The pirates asked him one day what he should do to them if he should
ever, at any future time, take them prisoners. Caesar said that he would
crucify every one of them.

[Sidenote: Caesar at liberty.]
[Sidenote: He captures the pirates in his turn.]

The ransom money at length arrived. Caesar paid it to the pirates, and
they, faithful to their covenant, sent him in a boat to the land. He was
put ashore on the coast of Asia Minor. He proceeded immediately to
Miletus, the nearest port, equipped a small fleet there, and put
to sea. He sailed at once to the roadstead where the pirates had been
lying, and found them still at anchor there, in perfect security.[1] He
attacked them, seized their ships, recovered his ransom money, and took
the men all prisoners. He conveyed his captives to the land, and there
fulfilled his threat that he would crucify them by cutting their
throats and nailing their dead bodies to crosses which his men erected
for the purpose along the shore.

[Footnote 1: See Frontispiece]

[Sidenote: Caesar at Rhodes.]

During his absence from Rome Caesar went to Rhodes, where his former
preceptor resided, and he continued to pursue there for some time his
former studies. He looked forward still to appearing one day in the
Roman Forum. In fact, he began to receive messages from his friends at
home that they thought it would be safe for him to return. Sylla had
gradually withdrawn from power, and finally had died. The aristocratical
party were indeed still in the ascendency, but the party of Marius had
begun to recover a little from the total overthrow with which Sylla's
return, and his terrible military vengeance, had overwhelmed them.
Caesar himself, therefore, they thought, might, with prudent management,
be safe in returning to Rome.

[Sidenote: He returns to Rome.]
[Sidenote: Caesar impeaches Dolabella.]
[Sidenote: Excitement in consequence.]

He returned, but not to be prudent or cautious; there was no element of
prudence or caution in his character. As soon as he arrived, he openly
espoused the popular party. His first public act was to arraign the
governor of the great province of Macedonia, through which he had passed
on his way to Bithynia. It was a consul whom he thus impeached, and a
strong partisan of Sylla's. His name was Dolabella. The people were
astonished at his daring in thus raising the standard of resistance to
Sylla's power, indirectly, it is true, but none the less really on that
account. When the trial came on, and Caesar appeared at the Forum, he
gained great applause by the vigor and force of his oratory. There was,
of course, a very strong and general interest felt in the case; the
people all seeming to understand that, in this attack on Dolabella,
Caesar was appearing as their champion, and their hopes were revived at
having at last found a leader capable of succeeding Marius, and building
up their cause again. Dolabella was ably defended by orators on the
other side, and was, of course, acquitted, for the power of Sylla's
party was still supreme. All Rome, however, was aroused and excited by
the boldness of Caesar's attack, and by the extraordinary ability which
he evinced in his mode of conducting it. He became, in fact, at once one
of the most conspicuous and prominent men in the city.

[Sidenote: Caesar's increasing power.]

Encouraged by his success, and the applauses which he received, and
feeling every day a greater and greater consciousness of power, he
began to assume more and more openly the character of the leader of the
popular party. He devoted himself to public speaking in the Forum, both
before popular assemblies and in the courts of justice, where he was
employed a great deal as an advocate to defend those who were accused of
political crimes. The people, considering him as their rising champion,
were predisposed to regard every thing that he did with favor, and there
was really a great intellectual power displayed in his orations and
harangues. He acquired, in a word, great celebrity by his boldness and
energy, and his boldness and energy were themselves increased in their
turn as he felt the strength of his position increase with his growing
celebrity.

[Sidenote: Death of Marius's wife.]
[Sidenote: Caesar's panegyric on Marius's wife.]
[Sidenote: Its success.]

At length the wife of Marius, who was Caesar's aunt, died. She had lived
in obscurity since her husband's proscription and death, his party
having been put down so effectually that it was dangerous to appear to
be her friend. Caesar, however, made preparations for a magnificent
funeral for her. There was a place in the Forum, a sort of pulpit, where
public orators were accustomed to stand in addressing the assembly on
great occasions. This pulpit was adorned with the brazen beaks of ships
which had been taken by the Romans in former wars The name of such a
beak was _rostrum_; in the plural, _rostra_. The pulpit was itself,
therefore, called the _Rostra_, that is, The Beaks; and the people were
addressed from it on great public occasions.[2] Caesar pronounced a
splendid panegyric upon the wife of Marius, at this her funeral, from
the Rostra, in the presence of a vast concourse of spectators, and he
had the boldness to bring out and display to the people certain
household images of Marius, which had been concealed from view ever
since his death. Producing them again on such an occasion was annulling,
so far as a public orator could do it, the sentence of condemnation
which Sylla and the patrician party had pronounced against him, and
bringing him forward again as entitled to public admiration and
applause. The patrician partisans who were present attempted to rebuke
this bold maneuver with expressions of disapprobation, but these
expressions were drowned in the loud and long-continued bursts of
applause with which the great mass of the assembled multitude hailed and
sanctioned it. The experiment was very bold and very hazardous, but it
was triumphantly successful.

[Footnote 2: In modern books this pulpit is sometimes called the
Rostrum, using the word in the singular.]

[Sidenote: Caesar's oration on his wife.]
[Sidenote: Alarm of the patricians.]

A short time after this Caesar had another opportunity for delivering a
funeral oration; it was in the case of his own wife, the daughter of
Cinna, who had been the colleague and coadjutor of Marius during the
days of his power. It was not usual to pronounce such panegyrics upon
Roman ladies unless they had attained to an advanced age. Caesar,
however, was disposed to make the case of his own wife an exception to
the ordinary rule. He saw in the occasion an opportunity to give a new
impulse to the popular cause, and to make further progress in gaining
the popular favor. The Iron Age; the first part a history containing the
Rape of Helen, the Siege of Troy, the Combat between Hector and
Ajax. Hector and Troilus slain by Achilles, the Death of Ajax, &c.
1632.

7. Iron Age, the second part; a History containing the Death of Penthesilea,
Paris, Priam, and Hecuba: the burning of Troy, the Deaths of Agamemnon,
Menelaus, Clytemnestra, Helena, Orestes, Egistus, Pylades, King Diomede,
Pyrrhus, Cethus, Synon, Thersetus, 1632, which part is addressed
to the author's much respected friend Thomas Manwaring, Esq; for
the plot of both parts, see Homer, Virgil, Dares Phrygius; for the
Episodes, Ovid's Epistles, Metamorph, Lucian's Dialogues, &c.

8.

A Woman kill'd with Kindness,
a comedy acted by the Queen's Servants with applause, 1617.

9.

If you know not Me, you know Nobody; or the Troubles of Queen Elizabeth,
in Two parts, 1623. The plot taken from Camden, Speed, and other
English Chronicles in the reign of Queen Elizabeth.

10. The Royal King, and Loyal Subject, a tragi-comedy, 1627, taken
partly from Fletcher's Loyal Subject.

The Fair Maid of the West, or a Girl worth Gold, 1631. This play was
acted before the King and Queen. Our author in his epistle
prefixed to this play, pleads modesty in not exposing his plays
to the public view of the world in numerous sheets, and a
large volume under the title of Works, as others, by which he would
seem tacitly to arraign some of his cotemporaries for ostentation, and
want of modesty. Langbaine is of opinion, that Heywood in this case
levelled the accusation at Ben Johnson, since no other poet, in
those days, gave his plays the pompous title of Works, of which Sir
John Suckling has taken notice in his session, of the poets.

The first that broke silence, was
good old Ben, Prepar'd before with Canary wine; And he told them
plainly, that he deserved the bays, For his were called works, where
others were but plays.

There was also a distich directed by some poet of that age to Ben
Johnson,
Pray tell me, Ben, where does the mystery lurk?
What others call a play, you call a work.

Which was thus answered by a friend of his,
The author's friend, thus for the author says, Ben's plays are works,
when others works are plays.

12. Fair Maid of the West, or a Girl worth Gold, the second part; acted
likewise before the King and Queen with success, dedicated to Thomas
Hammond, of Gray's-Inn, Esq;
13.

The Dutchess of Suffolk, an historical play 1631. For the play see Fox's
Martyrology, p. 521.

14.

The English Traveller, a tragi-comedy, acted at the Cock-pit in
Drury-lane, 1633, dedicated to Sir Henry Appleton, the plot from
Plautus Mostellaria.

15.

A Maidenhead well lost, a comedy acted in Drury-lane, 1634.

16.

The Four London Apprentices, with the Conquest of Jerusalem; an historical
play, acted by the Queen's servants 1635. It is founded on the history
of Godfrey of Bulloign. See Tasso, Fuller's history of the holy war,
&c.

17. A Challenge for Beauty; a tragi-comedy, acted by the King's servants
in Black-Fryers, 1636.

18. The Fair Maid of the Exchance;
with the Merry Humours of the Cripple
of Fen-church, a comedy, 1637.

19.

The Wise Woman of Hogsden; a comedy, acted with applause, 1638.

20. The Rape of Lucrece, a Roman Tragedy, acted at the Red Bull, 1638.

Plot from Titus Livius.

21. Love's Mistress, or the Queen's Mask; presented several times
before their Majesties, 1640. For the plot see Apuleius's Golden
Ass.

22. Fortune by Land or Sea, a comedy; acted by the Queen's servants,
1653. Mr. Rowley assisted in the composing of this play.

23. The Lancashire Witches, a comedy; acted at the Globe by the King's
servants. Mr. Brome joined with Mr. Heywood in writing this
comedy.
This story is related by the author in his Hierarchy of Angels.

24. Edward IV. an historical play, in two parts. For the story see
Speed, Hollinshed and other chronicles.

This author has published several other works in verse and prose, as
his Hierarchy of Angels, above-mentioned; the Life and Troubles
of Queen Elizabeth; the General History of Women; An Apology for
Actors, &c.

[Footnote 1: See the Life of Savage.]

[Footnote 2: Langbaine, p. 258.]
* * * * *

WILLIAM CARTWRIGHT,
A Gentleman eminent for learning. The place of his birth, and his father's
name, are differently assigned by authors, who have mentioned him. Mr.
Loyd says[1], that he was son of Thomas Cartwright of Burford in Oxfordshire,
and born August 16, in the year 1615; Mr. Wood[2], that he was the son
of William Cartwright, and born at Northway, near Tewksbury in Gloucestershire
in September 1611, that his father had dissipated a fair inheritance
he knew not how, and as his last refuge turned inn-keeper at
Cirencester; when living in competence, he procured his son, a youth
of a promising genius, to be educated under Mr.

William Topp, master of the free school
in that town. From thence he was removed
to Westminster school, being chosen a King's scholar, when compleating
his former learning, under the care of Mr.

Lambert Osbaldiston, he was elected a student in Christ Church in Oxford,
in 1628, under the tuition of Mr. Jerumael Terrent[3], having gone through
the classes of logic and philosophy with unwearied diligence, he took the
degrees of Arts, that of Master being compleated in 1605.
Afterwards he entered into holy orders, and gained great reputation, in
the university for his pathetic preaching.

In 1642 he had the place of succentor in the church of Salisbury, conferred
on him by bishop Duppa,[4] and in 1643 was chosen junior proctor of
the university; he was also metaphysical reader, and it was generally
said, that those lectures were never performed better than by Mr.
Cartwright, and his predecessor Mr. Thomas Barlow of Queen's College,
afterwards lord bishop of Lincoln.[5] This ingenious gentleman died of
a malignant fever, called the Camp-disease, which then reigned in Oxford,
and was fatal to many of his contemporaries, in the 33d year of
his age, 1643. His death was very much lamented by all ranks of men,
and the King and Queen, then at Oxford, frequently enquired after him
in the time of his sickness, and expressed great concern for his
death. Mr. Cartwright was as remarkable for the endowments of his
person as of his mind; his body (as Langbaine expresses it) "being
as handsome as his soul. He was, says he, an expert linguist, understanding
not only Greek and Latin, but French and Italian, as perfectly as his
mother tongue; an excellent orator, and at the same time an admirable
poet, a quality which Cicero with all his pains could never attain." The
editor of his works applies to him the saying of Aristotle concerning
Æschron the poet, "that he could not tell what Æschron could not
do," and Dr.

Fell, bishop of Oxford, said of
him, "Cartwright was the utmost a man can come to."

Ben Johnson likewise so highly valued him, that he said, "My son Cartwright
writes all like a man." There are extant of this author's, four
plays, besides other poems, all which were printed together in 1651, to
which are prefixed above fifty copies of commendatory verses by the
most eminent wits of the university.

Langbaine gives the following account of his plays;
1. Ordinary, a Comedy, when and where acted is uncertain.

2. Lady Errant, a Tragi-Comedy; there is no account when this play was
acted, but it was esteemed a good Comedy.

3, Royal Slave, a Tragi-comedy, presented to the King and Queen, by the
students of Christ Church in Oxford, August 30, 1636; presented
since before both their Majesties at Hampton Court by the King's
servants.

As for the noble stile of the play itself, and the ready address,
and graceful carriage of the students (amongst which Dr.

Busby, the famous master of Westminster school; proved himself a second
Roscius) did exceed all things of that nature they had ever seen. The
Queen, in particular, so much admired it, that in November following,
she sent for the habits and scenes to Hampton Court, she being desirous
to see her own servants represent the same play, whose profession
it was, that she might the better judge of the several performances,
and to whom the preference was due: the sentence was universally
given by all the spectators in favour of the gown, though nothing was
wanting on Mr.

Cartwright's side to inform the players as well as the Scholars,
in what belonged to the action and delivery of each part.[6] 
4.

Siege, or Love's Convert, a Tragi-Comedy, when acted is not known, but
was dedicated by the author to King Charles I. by an epistle in
verse.

Amongst his poems, there are several concerning the dramatic poets,
and their writings, which must not be forgot; as these two copies
which he wrote on Mr.

Thomas Killegrew's plays, the
Prisoner, and Claracilla; two
copies on Fletcher, and one in memory of Ben Johnson, which are
so excellent, that the publisher of Mr.

Cartwright's poems speaks of them with rapture in the preface, viz. 'what
had Ben said had he read his own Eternity, in that lasting elegy given
him by our author.' Mr. Wood mentions some other works of Cartwright's;
1st.
Poemata Graeca et Latina. 2d. An Offspring of Mercy issuing out of the
Womb of Cruelty; a Passion Sermon preached at Christ Church in Oxford,
on Acts ii. 23. London, 8vo. 1652. 3d. On the Signal Days of the Month
of November, in relation to the Crown and Royal Family; a Poem, London
1671, in a sheet, 4to. 4th. Poems and Verses, containing Airs for
several Voices, set by Mr. Henry Lawes.

From a Comedy of Mr. Cartwright's called the Ordinary, I shall quote the
following Congratulatory Song on a Marriage, which is amorous, and
spirited.

I.
While early light springs from the skies, A fairer from your bride
doth rise; A brighter day doth thence appear, And make a second
morning there.

Her blush doth shed All o'er the bed Clear shame-faced beams That
spread in streams, And purple round the modest air.

II.
I will not tell what shrieks and cries, What angry pishes, and what
fies, What pretty oaths, then newly born, The list'ning bridegroom
heard there sworn:
While froward she Most peevishly Did yielding fight, To keep o'er night,
What she'd have proffer'd you e're morn.

III.
For, we know, maids do refute To grant what they do come to lose.
Intend a conquest, you that wed; They would be chastly ravished;
Not any kiss From Mrs.

Pris, 'If that you do Persuade and woo:
No, pleasure's by extorting fed.

IV.
O may her arms wax black and blue Only by hard encircling you:
May she round about you twine Like the easy twisting vine; And while
you sip From her full lip Pleasures as new As morning dew, Like those
soft tyes, your hearts combine.

[Footnote 1: Memoirs, p. 422.]

[Footnote 2: Atheniæ Oxon. p. 274.]
[Footnote 3: ibid. vol. ii. col. 34.]
[Footnote 4: Athen. Oxon. col. 35.]
[Footnote 5: Preface to his Poems in 8vo. London, 1651.]
[Footnote 6: Wood.]
* * * * *

GEORGE SANDYS,
A younger son of Edwin, Archbishop of York, was born at Bishops Thorp
in that county, and as a member of St. Mary's Hall, was matriculated
in the university in the beginning of December 1589; how long he remained
at the university Wood is not able to determine. In the year 1610 he
began a long journey, and after he had travelled through several parts
of Europe, he visited many cities, especially Constantinople, and countries
under the Turkish empire, as Greece, Egypt, and the Holy Land[1].
Afterwards he took a view of the remote parts of Italy, and the
Islands adjoining: Then he went to Rome; the antiquities of that
place were shewn him by Nicholas Fitzherbert, once an Oxford student,
and who had the honour of Mr. Sandys's acquaintance. Thence our author
went to Venice, and from that returned to England, where digesting his
notes, he published his travels.

Sandys, who appears to have
been a man of excellent
parts, of a pious and generous disposition,
did not, like too many travellers, turn his attention upon the
modes of dress, and the fashions of the several courts which is but
a poor acquisition; but he studied the genius, the tempers, the
religion, and the governing principles of the people he visited,
as much as his time amongst them would permit.

He returned in 1612, being improved, says Wood, 'in several respects,
by this his 'large journey, being an accomplished gentleman, as being
master of several languages, of affluent and ready discourse, and
excellent comportment.' He had also a poetical fancy, and a zealous
inclination to all literature, which made his company acceptable to
the most virtuous men, and scholars of his time. He also wrote a
Paraphrase on the Psalms of David, and upon the Hymns dispersed throughout
the Old and New Testament, London, 1636, reprinted there in folio
1638, with other things under this title.

Paraphrase on the Divine Poems, on Job, Psalms of David, Ecclesiastes,
Lamentations of Jeremiah, and Songs collected out of the Old and
New Testament. This Paraphrase on David's Psalms was one of the books
that Charles I. delighted so much to read in: as he did in Herbert's
Divine Poems, Dr. Hammond's Works, and Hooker's Ecclesiastical Polity,
while he was a prisoner in the Isle of Wight[2].

Paraphrase on the Divine Poems, viz. on the Psalms of David, on Ecclesiastes,
and on the Song of Solomon, London, 1637. Some, if not all of the
Psalms of David, had vocal compositions set to them by William
and Henry Lawes, with a thorough bass, for an Organ, in four large books
or volumes in 4to. Our author also translated into English Ovid's
Metamorphoses, London, 1627. Virgil's first book of Æneis printed with
the former. Mr. Dryden in his preface to some of his translations of
Ovid's Metamorphoses, calls him the best versifier of the last age.

Christ's Passion, written in Latin by the famous Hugo Grotius, and translated
by our author, to which he also added notes; this subject had been
handled handled before in Greek, by that venerable person, Apollinarius
of Laodicea, bishop of Hierapolis, but this of Grotius, in Sandys's
opinion, transcends all on this argument; this piece was reprinted with
figures in 8vo. London, 1688. Concerning our author but few incidents
are known, he is celebrated by cotemporary and subsequent wits, as a
very considerable poet, and all have agreed to bestow upon him the
character of a pious worthy man. He died in the year 1643, at the
house of his nephew Mr. Wiat at Boxley Abbey in Kent, in the chancel of
which parish church he is buried, though without a monument, only
as Wood says with the following, which stands in the common register
belonging to this church.

Georgius Sandys, Poetarum Anglorum sui sæculi Princeps, sepultus
suit Martii 7° stilo Anglico.

Anno Pom. 1643. It would be injurious to the memory of Sandys, to dismiss
his life without informing the reader that the worthy author
stood high in the opinion of that most accomplished young
nobleman the lord viscount Falkland, by whom to be praised, is the
highest compliment that can be paid to merit; his lordship addresses
a copy of verses to Grotius, occasioned by his Christus Patiens, in which
he introduces Mr. Sandys, and says of him, that he had seen as much as
Grotius had read; he bestows upon him like wife the epithet of a
fine gentleman, and observes, that though he had travelled to
foreign countries to read life, and acquire knowledge, yet he was worthy,
like another Livy, of having men of eminence from every country
come to visit him.

From the quotation
here given, it will be seen that Sandys was a smooth versifier,
and Dryden in his preface to his translation of Virgil, positively
says, that had Mr.

Sandys gone before him in the whole translation, he would by no means
have attempted it after him.

In the translation of his Christus Patiens, in the chorus of Act III.

JESUS speaks.

Daughters of Solyma, no more My wrongs thus passionately deplore.
These tears for future sorrows keep, Wives for yourselves, and children
weep; That horrid day will shortly come, When you shall bless the
barren womb, And breast that never infant fed; Then shall you with the
mountain's head Would from this trembling basis slide, And all in tombs
of ruin hide.

In his translation of Ovid, the verses on Fame are thus englished.

And now the work is ended which Jove's
rage, Nor fire, nor sword, shall raise, nor eating age.

Come when it will, my death's uncertain hour, Which only o'er my body
bath a power:
Yet shall my better part transcend the sky, And my immortal name shall
never die:
For wheresoe'er the Roman Eagles spread Their conqu'ring wings, I shall
of all be read.
And if we Prophets can presages give, I in my fame eternally shall
live.

[Footnote 1: Athen. Oxon. p. 46. vol. ii.]
[Footnote 2: Wood, ubi supra.]
* * * * *

CARY LUCIUS, Lord Viscount FALKLAND,

The son of Henry, lord viscount
Falkland, was born at Burford in
Oxfordshire, about the year 1610[1].

For some years he received his education in Ireland, where his father
carried him when he was appointed Lord Deputy of that kingdom in
1622; he had his academical learning in Trinity College in Dublin, and
in St. John's College, Cambridge. Clarendon relates, "that before he
came to be twenty years of age, he was master of a noble fortune,
which descended to him by the gift of a grandfather, without passing
through his father or mother, who were both alive; shortly after that,
and before he was of age, being in his inclination a great lover of
the military life, he went into the low countries in order to procure a
command, and to give himself up to it, but was diverted from it by the
compleat inactivity of that summer." He returned to England, and applied
himself to a severe course of study; first to polite literature and poetry,
in which he made several successful attempts. In a very short time he
became perfectly master of the Greek tongue; accurately read all the
Greek historians, and before he was twenty three years of age, he
had perused all the Greek and Latin Fathers.

About the time of his father's death, in 1633, he was made one
of the Gentlemen of his Majesty's Privy Chamber, notwithstanding
which he frequently retired to Oxford, to enjoy the conversation
of learned and ingenious men. In 1639 he was engaged in an expedition
against the Scots, and though he received some disappointment in a
command of a troop of horse, of which he had a promise, he went a
volunteer with the earl of Essex[2].

In 1640 he was chosen a Member of the House of Commons, for Newport
in the Isle of Wight, in the Parliament which began at Westminster
the 13th of April in the same year, and from the debates, says
Clarendon, which were managed with all imaginable gravity and
sobriety, 'he contracted such a reverence for Parliaments, that he
thought it absolutely impossible they ever could produce mischief
or inconvenience to the nation, or that the kingdom could be tolerably
happy in the intermission of them, and from the unhappy, and
unseasonable dissolution of the Parliament he harboured some prejudice
to the court.'

In 1641, John, lord Finch, Keeper of the Great Seal, was impeached
by lord Falkland, in the name of the House of Commons, and his
lordship, says Clarendon, 'managed that prosecution with great
vigour and sharpness, as also against the earl of Strafford, contrary
to his natural gentleness of temper, but in both these cases he was
misled by the authority of those whom he believed understood the
laws perfectly, of which he himself was utterly ignorant[3].'

He had contracted an aversion towards Archbishop Laud, and some other
bishops, which inclined him to concur in the first bill to take
away the votes of the bishops in the House of Lords. The reason of his
prejudice against Laud was, the extraordinary passion and impatience of
contradiction discoverable in that proud prelate; who could not
command his temper, even at the Council Table when his Majesty was
present, but seemed to lord it over all the rest, not by the force of
argument, but an assumed superiority to which he had no right. This
nettled lord Falkland, and made him exert his spirit to humble and
oppose the supercilious churchman. This conduct of his lordship's,
gave Mr. Hampden occasion to court him to his party, who was justly placed
by the brilliance of his powers, at the head of the opposition; but
after a longer study of the laws of the realm, and conversation with
the celebrated Edward Hyde, Earl of Clarendon, he changed his opinion,
and espoused an interest quite opposite to Hampden's.

After much importunity, he at last accepted the Seals of his Majesty,
and served in that employment with unshaken integrity, being above
corruption of any kind.
When he was vested with that high dignity, two parts of his conduct
were very remarkable; he could never persuade himself that it was
lawful to employ spies, or give any countenance or entertainment
to such persons, who by a communication of guilt, or dissimulation
of manners, wind themselves into such trusts and secrets, as enable
them to make discoveries; neither could he ever suffer himself to
open letters, upon a suspicion that they might contain matters of
dangerous consequence, and proper for statesmen to know. As to the
first he condemned them as void of all honour, and who ought justly
to be abandoned to infamy, and that no single preservation could
be worth so general a wound and corruption of society, as encouraging
such people would carry with it. The last, he thought such a violation
of the law of nature, that no qualification by office could justify
him in the trespass, and tho' the necessity of the times made it
clear, that those advantages were not to be declined, and were
necessary to be practised, yet he found means to put it off from
himself[4].
June 15, 1642, he was one of the lords who signed the declaration,
wherein they professed they were fully satisfied his Majesty had
no intention to raise war upon his Parliament. At the same time he
subscribed to levy twenty horse for his Majesty's service, upon
which he was excepted from the Parliament's favour, in the instructions
given by the two Houses to their general the Earl of Essex. He
attended the King to Edgehill fight, where after the enemy was
routed he was exposed to imminent danger, by endeavouring to save
those who had thrown away their arms. He was also with his Majesty
at Oxford, and during his residence there, the King went one day
to see the public library, where he was shewed, among other books,
a Virgil nobly printed, and exquisitely bound.He told her that he should come home that night the
pontiff, or he should never come home at all. He succeeded in gaining
the election.

[Sidenote: He is deposed.]
[Sidenote: Caesar's forbearance.]
[Sidenote: He is restored to office.]

At one time Caesar was actually deposed from a high office which he
held, by a decree of the Senate. He determined to disregard this decree,
and go on in the discharge of his office as usual. But the Senate, whose
ascendency was now, for some reason, once more established, prepared to
prevent him by force of arms. Caesar, finding that he was not
sustained, gave up the contest, put off his robes of office, and went
home. Two days afterward a reaction occurred. A mass of the populace
came together to his house, and offered their assistance to restore his
rights and vindicate his honor. Caesar, however, contrary to what every
one would have expected of him, exerted his influence to calm and quiet
the mob, and then sent them away, remaining himself in private as
before. The Senate had been alarmed at the first outbreak of the tumult,
and a meeting had been suddenly convened to consider what measures to
adopt in such a crisis. When, however, they found that Caesar had
himself interposed, and by his own personal influence had saved the city
from the danger which threatened it, they were so strongly impressed
with a sense of his forbearance and generosity, that they sent for him
to come to the senate house, and, after formally expressing their
thanks, they canceled their former vote, and restored him to his office
again. This change in the action of the Senate does not, however,
necessarily indicate so great a change of individual sentiment as one
might at first imagine. There was, undoubtedly, a large minority who
were averse to his being deposed in the first instance but, being
outvoted, the decree of deposition was passed. Others were, perhaps,
more or less doubtful. Caesar's generous forbearance in refusing the
offered aid of the populace carried over a number of these sufficient to
shift the majority, and thus the action of the body was reversed. It is
in this way that the sudden and apparently total changes in the action
of deliberative assemblies which often take place, and which would
otherwise, in some cases, be almost incredible, are to be explained.

[Sidenote: Caesar implicated in Catiline's conspiracy.]
[Sidenote: He arrests Vettius.]

After this, Caesar became involved in another difficulty, in consequence
of the appearance of some definite and positive evidence that he was
connected with Catiline in his famous conspiracy. One of the senators
said that Catiline himself had informed him that Caesar was one of the
accomplices of the plot. Another witness, named Vettius, laid an
information against Caesar before a Roman magistrate, and offered to
produce Caesar's handwriting in proof of his participation in the
conspirator's designs Caesar was very much incensed, and his manner of
vindicating himself from these serious charges was as singular as many
of his other deeds. He arrested Vettius, and sentenced him to pay a
heavy fine, and to be imprisoned; and he contrived also to expose him,
in the course of the proceedings, to the mob in the Forum, who were
always ready to espouse Caesar's cause, and who, on this occasion, beat
Vettius so unmercifully, that he barely escaped with his life. The
magistrate, too, was thrown into prison for having dared to take an
information against a superior officer.

[Sidenote: Caesar's embarrassment.]
[Sidenote: Spain is assigned to him.]

At last Caesar became so much involved in debt, through the boundless
extravagance of his expenditures, that something must be done to
replenish his exhausted finances. He had, however, by this time, risen
so high in official influence and power, that he succeeded in having
Spain assigned to him as his province, and he began to make preparations
to proceed to it. His creditors, however, interposed, unwilling to let
him go without giving them security. In this dilemma, Caesar succeeded
in making an arrangement with Crassus, who has already been spoken of as
a man of unbounded wealth and great ambition, but not possessed of any
considerable degree of intellectual power. Crassus consented to give the
necessary security, with an understanding that Caesar was to repay him
by exerting his political influence in his favor. So soon as this
arrangement was made, Caesar set off in a sudden and private manner, as
if he expected that otherwise some new difficulty would intervene.

[Sidenote: The Swiss hamlet.]

He went to Spain by land, passing through Switzerland on the way. He
stopped with his attendants one night at a very insignificant village of
shepherds' huts among the mountains. Struck with the poverty and
worthlessness of all they saw in this wretched hamlet, Caesar's friends
were wondering whether the jealousy, rivalry, and ambition which reigned
among men every where else in the world could find any footing there,
when Caesar told them that, for his part, he should rather choose to be
first in such a village as that than the second at Rome. The story has
been repeated a thousand times, and told to every successive generation
now for nearly twenty centuries, as an illustration of the peculiar type
and character of the ambition which controls such a soul as that
of Caesar.

[Sidenote: Caesar's ambition.]

Caesar was very successful in the administration of his province; that
is to say, he returned in a short time with considerable military glory,
and with money enough to pay all his debts, and famish him with means
for fresh electioneering.

[Sidenote: Manner of choosing the consuls.]
[Sidenote: Pompey and Crassus.]

He now felt strong enough to aspire to the office of consul, which was
the highest office of the Roman state. When the line of kings had been
deposed, the Romans had vested the supreme magistracy in the hands of
two consuls, who were chosen annually in a general election, the
formalities of which were all very carefully arranged. The current of
popular opinion was, of course, in Caesar's favor, but he had many
powerful rivals and enemies among the great, who, however, hated and
opposed each other as well as him. There was at that time a very bitter
feud between Pompey and Crassus, each of them struggling for power
against the efforts of the other. Pompey possessed great influence
through his splendid abilities and his military renown. Crassus, as has
already been stated, was powerful through his wealth. Caesar, who had
some influence with them both, now conceived the bold design of
reconciling them, and then of availing himself of their united aid in
accomplishing his own particular ends.

[Sidenote: The first triumvirate.]

He succeeded perfectly well in this management. He represented to them
that, by contending against each other, they only exhausted their own
powers, and strengthened the arms of their common enemies. He proposed
to them to unite with one another and with him, and thus make common
cause to promote their common interest and advancement. They willingly
acceded to this plan, and a triple league was accordingly formed, in
which they each bound themselves to promote, by every means in his
power, the political elevation of the others, and not to take any public
step or adopt any measures without the concurrence of the three. Caesar
faithfully observed the obligations of this league so long as he could
use his two associates to promote his own ends, and then he
abandoned it.

[Sidenote: Caesar a candidate for the consulship.]

Having, however, completed this arrangement, he was now prepared to push
vigorously his claims to be elected consul. He associated with his own
name that of Lucceius, who was a man of great wealth, and who agreed to
defray the expenses of the election for the sake of the honor of being
consul with Caesar. Caesar's enemies, however, knowing that they
probably could not prevent his election, determined to concentrate their
strength in the effort to prevent his having the colleague he desired.
They made choice, therefore, of a certain Bibulus as their candidate.
Bibulus had always been a political opponent of Caesar's, and they
thought that, by associating him with Caesar in the supreme magistracy,
the pride and ambition of their great adversary might be held somewhat
in check. They accordingly made a contribution among themselves to
enable Bibulus to expend as much money in bribery as Lucceius, and the
canvass went on.

[Sidenote: Caesar assumes the whole power.]
[Sidenote: He imprisons Cato.]

It resulted in the election of Caesar and Bibulus. They entered upon the
duties of their office; but Caesar, almost entirely disregarding his
colleague, began to assume the whole power, and proposed and carried
measure after measure of the most extraordinary character, all aiming at
the gratification of the populace. He was at first opposed violently
both by Bibulus and by many leading members of the Senate, especially by
Cato, a stern and inflexible patriot, whom neither fear of danger nor
hope of reward could move from what he regarded his duty. But Caesar was
now getting strong enough to put down the opposition which he
encountered with out much scruple as to the means. He ordered Cato on
one occasion to be arrested in the Senate and sent to prison. Another
influential member of the Senate rose and was going out with him. Caesar
asked him where he was going. He said he was going with Cato. He would
rather, he said, be with Cato in prison, than in the Senate with Caesar.

[Sidenote: Bibulus retires to his house.]
[Sidenote: The year of "Julius and Caesar."]

Caesar treated Bibulus also with so much neglect, and assumed so
entirely the whole control of the consular power, to the utter exclusion
of his colleague, that Bibulus at last, completely discouraged and
chagrined, abandoned all pretension to official authority, retired to
his house, and shut himself up in perfect seclusion, leaving Caesar to
his own way. It was customary among the Romans, in their historical and
narrative writings, to designate the successive years, not by a
numerical date as with us, but by the names of the consuls who held
office in them. Thus, in the time of Caesar's consulship, the phrase
would have been, "In the year of Caesar and Bibulus, consuls," according
to the ordinary usage; but the wags of the city, in order to make sport
of the assumptions of Caesar and the insignificance of Bibulus, used to
say, "In the year of Julius and Caesar, consuls," rejecting the name of
Bibulus altogether, and taking the two names of Caesar to make out the
necessary duality.


CHAPTER IV.

THE CONQUEST OF GAUL.

[Sidenote: Caesar aspires to be a soldier.]
[Sidenote: His success and celebrity.]

In attaining to the consulship, Caesar had reached the highest point of
elevation which it was possible to reach as a mere citizen of Rome. His
ambition was, however, of course, not satisfied. The only way to acquire
higher distinction and to rise to higher power was to enter upon a
career of foreign conquest. Caesar therefore aspired now to be a
soldier. He accordingly obtained the command of an army, and entered
upon a course of military campaigns in the heart of Europe, which he
continued for eight years. These eight years constitute one of the most
important and strongly-marked periods of his life. He was triumphantly
successful in his military career, and he made, accordingly, a vast
accession to his celebrity and power, in his own day, by the results of
his campaigns. He also wrote, himself, an account of his adventures
during this period, in which the events are recorded in so lucid and in
so eloquent a manner, that the narrations have continued to be read by
every successive generation of scholars down to the present day, and
they have had a great influence in extending and perpetuating his fame.

[Sidenote: Scenes of Caesar's exploits.]
[Sidenote: Cisalpine and Transalpine Gaul.]

The principal scenes of the exploits which Caesar performed during the
period of this his first great military career, were the north of Italy,
Switzerland, France, Germany, and England, a great tract of country,
nearly all of which he overran and conquered. A large portion of this
territory was called Gaul in those days; the part on the Italian side of
the Alps being named Cisalpine Gaul, while that which lay beyond was
designated as Transalpine. Transalpine Gaul was substantially what is
now France. There was a part of Transalpine Gaul which had been already
conquered and reduced to a Roman province. It was called The Province
then, and has retained the name, with a slight change in orthography, to
the present day. It is now known as Provence.

[Sidenote: Condition of Gaul in Caesar's day.]
[Sidenote: Singular cavalry.]

The countries which Caesar went to invade were occupied by various
nations and tribes, many of which were well organized and war-like, and
some of them were considerably civilized and wealthy. They had extended
tracts of cultivated land, the slopes of the hills and the mountain
sides being formed into green pasturages, which were covered with flocks
of goats, and sheep, and herds of cattle, while the smoother and more
level tracts were adorned with smiling vineyards and broadly-extended
fields of waving grain. They had cities, forts, ships, and armies. Their
manners and customs would be considered somewhat rude by modern nations,
and some of their usages of war were half barbarian. For example, in one
of the nations which Caesar encountered, he found, as he says in his
narrative, a corps of cavalry, as a constituent part of the army, in
which, to every horse, there were _two_ men, one the rider, and the
other a sort of foot soldier and attendant. If the battle went against
them, and the squadron were put to their speed in a retreat, these
footmen would cling to the manes-of the horses, and then, half running,
half flying, they would be borne along over the field, thus keeping
always at the side of their comrades, and escaping with them to a place
of safety.

[Sidenote: Caesar's plans.]

But, although the Romans were inclined to consider these nations as only
half civilized, still there would be great glory, as Caesar thought, in
subduing them, and probably great treasure would be secured in the
conquest, both by the plunder and confiscation of governmental
property, and by the tribute which would be collected in taxes from the
people of the countries subdued. Caesar accordingly placed himself at
the head of an army of three Roman legions, which he contrived, by means
of a great deal of political maneuvering and management, to have raised
and placed under his command. One of these legions, which was called the
tenth legion, was his favorite corps, on account of the bravery and
hardihood which they often displayed. At the head of these legions,
Caesar set out for Gaul. He was at this time not far from forty years
of age.

[Sidenote: His pretexts.]

Caesar had no difficulty in finding pretexts for making war upon any of
these various nations that he might desire to subdue. They were, of
course, frequently at war with each other, and there were at all times
standing topics of controversy and unsettled disputes among them. Caesar
had, therefore, only to draw near to the scene of contention, and then
to take sides with one party or the other, it mattered little with
which, for the affair almost always resulted, in the end, in his making
himself master of both. The manner, however, in which this sort of
operation was performed, can best be illustrated by an example, and we
will take for the purpose the case of Ariovistus.

[Sidenote: Ariovistus.]
[Sidenote: The Aeduans.]

Ariovistus was a German king. He had been nominally a sort of ally of
the Romans. He had extended his conquests across the Rhine into Gaul,
and he held some nations there as his tributaries. Among these, the
Aeduans were a prominent party, and, to simplify the account, we will
take their name as the representative of all who were concerned. When
Caesar came into the region of the Aeduans, he entered into some
negotiations with them, in which they, as he alleges, asked his
assistance to enable them to throw off the dominion of their German
enemy. It is probable, in fact, that there was some proposition of this
kind from them, for Caesar had abundant means of inducing them to make
it, if he was disposed, and the receiving of such a communication
furnished the most obvious and plausible pretext to authorize and
justify his interposition.

Caesar accordingly sent a messenger across the Rhine to Ariovistus,
saying that he wished to have an interview with him on business of
importance, and asking him to name a time which would be convenient to
him for the interview, and also to appoint some place in Gaul where he
would attend.

[Sidenote: Caesar's negotiations with Ariovistus.]

To this Ariovistus replied, that if he had, himself, any business with
Caesar, he would have waited upon him to propose it; and, in the same
manner, if Caesar wished to see him, he must come into his own
dominions. He said that it would not be safe for him to come into Gaul
without an army, and that it was not convenient for him to raise and
equip an army for such a purpose at that time.

[Sidenote: His message.]

Caesar sent again to Ariovistus to say, that since he was so unmindful
of his obligations to the Roman people as to refuse an interview with
him on business of common interest, he would state the particulars that
he required of him. The Aeduans, he said, were now his allies, and under
his protection; and Ariovistus must send back the hostages which he held
from them, and bind himself henceforth not to send any more troops
across the Rhine, nor make war upon the Aeduans, or injure them in any
way. If he complied with these terms, all would be well. If he did not,
Caesar said that he should not himself disregard the just complaints of
his allies.

[Sidenote: Ariovistus's spirited reply to Caesar.]

Ariovistus had no fear of Caesar. Caesar had, in fact, thus far, not
begun to acquire the military renown to which he afterward attained
Ariovistus had, therefore, no particular cause to dread his power. He
sent him back word that he did not understand why Caesar should
interfere between him and his conquered province.

"The Aeduans," said he, "tried the fortune of war with me, and were
overcome; and they must abide the issue. The Romans manage their
conquered provinces as they judge proper, without holding themselves
accountable to any one. I shall do the same with mine. All that I can
say is, that so long as the Aeduans submit peaceably to my authority,
and pay their tribute, I shall not molest them; as to your threat that
you shall not disregard their complaints, you must know that no one has
ever made war upon me but to his own destruction, and, if you wish to
see how it will turn out in your case, you may make the experiment
whenever you please."

[Sidenote: Preparations for war.]

Both parties immediately prepared for war. Ariovistus, instead of
waiting to be attacked, assembled his army, crossed the Rhine, and
advanced into the territories from which Caesar had undertaken to
exclude him.

[Sidenote: Panic in the Roman army.]

As Caesar, however, began to make his arrangements for putting his army
in motion to meet his approaching enemy, there began to circulate
throughout the camp such extraordinary stories of the terrible strength
and courage of the German soldiery as to produce a very general panic.
So great, at length, became the anxiety and alarm, that even the
officers were wholly dejected and discouraged; and as for the men, they
were on the very eve of mutiny.

[Sidenote: Caesar's address.]

When Caesar understood this state of things, he called an assembly of
the troops, and made an address to them. He told them that he was
astonished to learn to what an extent an unworthy despondency and fear
had taken possession of their minds, and how little confidence they
reposed in him, their general. And then, after some further remarks
about the duty of a soldier to be ready to go wherever his commander
leads him, and presenting also some considerations in respect to the
German troops with which they were going to contend, in order to show
them that they had no cause to fear, he ended by saying that he had not
been fully decided as to the time of marching, but that now he had
concluded to give orders for setting out the next morning at three
o'clock, that he might learn, as soon as possible, who were too cowardly
to follow him. He would go himself, he said, if he was attended by the
tenth legion alone He was sure that they would not shrink from any
undertaking in which he led the way.

[Sidenote: Effect of Caesar's address.]
[Sidenote: Proposals for an interview.]

The soldiers, moved partly by shame, partly by the decisive and
commanding tone which their general assumed, and partly reassured by the
courage and confidence which he seemed to feel, laid aside their fears,
and vied with each other henceforth in energy and ardor. The armies
approached each other. Ariovistus sent to Caesar, saying that now, if he
wished it, he was ready for an interview. Caesar acceded to the
suggestion, and the arrangements for a conference were made, each party,
as usual in such cases, taking every precaution to guard against the
treachery of the other.

Between the two camps there was a rising ground, in the middle of an
open plain, where it was decided that the conference should be held.
Ariovistus proposed that neither party should bring any foot soldiers to
the place of meeting, but cavalry alone; and that these bodies of
cavalry, brought by the respective generals, should remain at the foot
of the eminence on either side, while Caesar and Ariovistus themselves,
attended each by only ten followers on horseback, should ascend it. This
plan was acceded to by Caesar, and a long conference was held in this
way between the two generals, as they sat upon their horses, on the
summit of the hill.

[Sidenote: Conference between Caesar and Ariovistus.]
[Sidenote: Caesar's messenger seized.]

The two generals, in their discussion, only repeated in substance what
they had said in their embassages before, and made no progress toward
coming to an understanding. At length Caesar closed the conference and
withdrew. Some days afterward Ariovistus sent a request to Caesar,
asking that he would appoint another interview, or else that he would
depute one of his officers to proceed to Ariovistus's camp and receive a
communication which he wished to make to him. Caesar concluded not to
grant another interview, and he did not think it prudent to send any one
of his principal officers as an embassador, for fear that he might be
treacherously seized and held as a hostage. He accordingly sent an
ordinary messenger, accompanied by one or two men. These men were all
seized and put in irons as soon as they reached the camp of Ariovistus,
and Caesar now prepared in earnest for giving his enemy battle.

[Sidenote: Defeat of the Germans.]

He proved himself as skillful and efficient in arranging and managing
the combat as he had been sagacious and adroit in the negotiations which
preceded it. Several days were spent in maneuvers and movements, by
which each party endeavored to gain some advantage over the other in
respect to their position in the approaching struggle. When at length
the combat came, Caesar and his legions were entirely and triumphantly
successful. The Germans were put totally to flight. Their baggage and
stores were all seized, and the troops themselves fled in dismay by all
the roads which led back to the Rhine; and there those who succeeded in
escaping death from the Romans, who pursued them all the way, embarked
in boats and upon rafts, and returned to their homes. Ariovistus himself
found a small boat, in which, with one or two followers, he succeeded in
getting across the stream.

[Sidenote: Release of Caesar's messenger.]

As Caesar, at the head of a body of his troops, was pursuing the enemy
in this their flight, he overtook one party who had a prisoner with them
confined by iron chains fastened to his limbs, and whom they were
hurrying rapidly along. This prisoner proved to be the messenger that
Caesar had sent to Ariovistus's camp, and whom he had, as Caesar
alleges, treacherously detained. Of course, he was overjoyed to be
recaptured and set at liberty. The man said that three times they had
drawn lots to see whether they should burn him alive then, or reserve
the pleasure for a future occasion, and that every time the lot had
resulted in his favor.

[Sidenote: Results of the victory.]
[Sidenote: Caesar's continued success.]

The consequence of this victory was, that Caesar's authority was
established triumphantly over all that part of Gaul which he had thus
freed from Ariovistus's sway. Other parts of the country, too, were
pervaded by the fame of his exploits, and the people every where began
to consider what action it would be incumbent on them to take, in
respect to the new military power which had appeared so suddenly among
them. Some nations determined to submit without resistance, and to seek
the conqueror's alliance and protection. Others, more bold, or more
confident of their strength, began to form combinations and to arrange
plans for resisting him. But, whatever they did, the result in the end
was the same. Caesar's ascendency was every where and always gaining
ground. Of course, it is impossible in the compass of a single chapter,
which is all that can be devoted to the subject in this volume, to give
any regular narrative of the events of the eight years of Caesar's
military career in Gaul. Marches, negotiations, battles, and victories
mingled with and followed each other in a long succession, the
particulars of which it would require a volume to detail, every thing
resulting most successfully for the increase of Caesar's power and the
extension of his fame.

[Sidenote: Account of northern nations.]
[Sidenote: Their strange customs.]
[Sidenote: Well-trained horses.]

Caesar gives, in his narrative, very extraordinary accounts of the
customs and modes of life of some of the people that he encountered.
There was one country, for example, in which all the lands were common,
and the whole structure of society was based on the plan of forming the
community into one great martial band. The nation was divided into a
hundred cantons, each containing two thousand men capable of bearing
arms. If these were all mustered into service together, they would form,
of course, an army of two hundred thousand men. It was customary,
however, to organize only one half of them into an army, while the rest
remained at home to till the ground and tend the flocks and herds. These
two great divisions interchanged their work every year, the soldiers
becoming husbandmen, and the husbandmen soldiers. Thus they all became
equally inured to the hardships and dangers of the camp, and to the more
continuous but safer labors of agricultural toil. Their fields were
devoted to pasturage more than to tillage, for flocks and herds could be
driven from place to place, and thus more easily preserved from the
depredations of enemies than fields of grain. The children grew up
almost perfectly wild from infancy, and hardened themselves by bathing
in cold streams, wearing very little clothing, and making long hunting
excursions among the mountains. The people had abundance of excellent
horses, which the young men were accustomed, from their earliest years,
to ride without saddle or bridle, the horses being trained to obey
implicitly every command. So admirably disciplined were they, that
sometimes, in battle, the mounted men would leap from their horses and
advance as foot soldiers to aid the other infantry, leaving the horses
to stand until they returned. The horses would not move from the spot;
the men, when the object for which they had dismounted was accomplished,
would come back, spring to their seats again, and once more become a
squadron of cavalry.

[Sidenote: Caesar's popularity with the army.]
[Sidenote: Caesar's military habits.]
[Sidenote: His bridge across the Rhine.]

Although Caesar was very energetic and decided in the government of his
army, he was extremely popular with his soldiers in all these campaigns.
He exposed his men, of course, to a great many privations and hardships,
but then he evinced, in many cases, such a willingness to bear his share
of them, that the men were very little inclined to complain. He moved
at the head of the column when his troops were advancing on a march,
generally on horseback, but often on foot; and Suetonius says that he
used to go bareheaded on such occasions, whatever was the state of the
weather, though it is difficult to see what the motive of this
apparently needless exposure could be, unless it was for effect, on some
special or unusual occasion. Caesar would ford or swim rivers with his
men whenever there was no other mode of transit, sometimes supported, it
was said, by bags inflated with air, and placed under his arms. At one
time he built a bridge across the Rhine, to enable his army to cross
that river. This bridge was built with piles driven down into the sand,
which supported a flooring of timbers. Caesar, considering it quite an
exploit thus to bridge the Rhine, wrote a minute account of the manner
in which the work was constructed, and the description is almost exactly
in accordance with the principles and usages of modern carpentry.

[Sidenote: System of posts.]
[Sidenote: Their great utility.]

After the countries which were the scene of these conquests were pretty
well subdued, Caesar established on some of the great routes of travel a
system of posts, that is, he stationed supplies of horses at intervals
of from ten to twenty miles along the way, so that he himself, or the
officers of his army, or any couriers whore he might have occasion to
send with dispatches could travel with great speed by finding a fresh
horse ready at every stage. By this means he sometimes traveled himself
a hundred miles in a day. This system, thus adopted for military
purposes in Caesar's time, has been continued in almost all countries of
Europe to the present age, and is applied to traveling in carriages as
well as on horseback. A family party purchase a carriage, and arranging
within it all the comforts and conveniences which they will require on
the journey, they set out, taking these post horses, fresh at each
village, to draw them to the next. Thus they can go at any rate of speed
which they desire, instead of being limited in their movements by the
powers of endurance of one set of animals, as they would be compelled to
be if they were to travel with their own. This plan has, for some
reason, never been introduced into America, and it is now probable that
it never will be, as the railway system will doubtless supersede it.

[Sidenote: Caesar's invasion of Britain.]
[Sidenote: His pretext for it.]

One of the most remarkable of the enterprises which Caesar undertook
during the period of these campaigns was his excursion into Great
Britain. The real motive of this expedition was probably a love of
romantic adventure, and a desire to secure for himself at Rome the glory
of having penetrated into remote regions which Roman armies had never
reached before. The pretext, however, which he made to justify his
invading the territories of the Britons was, that the people of the
island were accustomed to come across the Channel and aid the Gauls in
their wars.

[Sidenote: Caesar consults the merchants.]

In forming his arrangements for going into England, the first thing was,
to obtain all the information which was accessible in Gaul in respect to
the country. There were, in those days, great numbers of traveling
merchants, who went from one nation to another to purchase and sell,
taking with them such goods as were most easy of transportation. These
merchants, of course, were generally possessed of a great deal of
information in respect to the countries which they had visited, and
Caesar called together as many of them as he could find, when he had
reached the northern shores of France, to inquire about the modes of
crossing the Channel, the harbors on the English side, the geographical
conformation of the country, and the military resources of the people.
He found, however, that the merchants could give him very little
information. They knew that Britain was an island, but they did not know
its extent or its boundaries; and they could tell him very little of the
character or customs of the people. They said that they had only been
accustomed to land upon the southern shore, and to transact all their
business there, without penetrating at all into the interior of
the country.

[Sidenote: Volusenus.]

Caesar then, who, though undaunted and bold in emergencies requiring
prompt and decisive action, was extremely cautious and wary at all other
times, fitted up a single ship, and, putting one of his officers on
board with a proper crew, directed him to cross the Channel to the
English coast, and then to cruise along the land for some miles in each
direction, to observe where were the best harbors and places for
landing, and to examine generally the appearance of the shore. This
vessel was a galley, manned with numerous oarsmen, well selected and
strong, so that it could retreat with great speed from any sudden
appearance of danger The name of the officer who had the command of it
was Volusenus. Volusenus set sail, the army watching his vessel with
great interest as it moved slowly away from the shore. He was gone five
days, and then returned, bringing Caesar an account of his discoveries.

[Sidenote: Caesar collects vessels.]

In the mean time, Caesar had collected a large number of sailing vessels
from the whole line of the French shore, by means of which he proposed
to transport his army across the Channel. He had two legions to take
into Britain, the remainder of his forces having been stationed as
garrisons in various parts of Gaul. It was necessary, too, to leave a
considerable force at his post of debarkation, in order to secure a safe
retreat in case of any disaster on the British side. The number of
transport ships provided for the foot soldiers which were to be taken
over was eighty. There were, besides these, eighteen more, which were
appointed to convey a squadron of horse. This cavalry force was to
embark at a separate port, about eighty miles distant from the one from
which the infantry were to sail.

[Sidenote: Embarkation of the troops.]

At length a suitable day for the embarkation arrived; the troops were
put on board the ships, and orders were given to sail. The day could not
be fixed beforehand, as the time for attempting to make the passage must
necessarily depend upon the state of the wind and weather. Accordingly,
when the favorable opportunity arrived, and the main body of the army
began to embark it took some time to send the orders to the port where
the cavalry had rendezvoused; and there were, besides, other causes of
delay which occurred to detain this corps, so that it turned out, as we
shall presently see, that the foot soldiers had to act alone in the
first attempt at landing on the British shore.

[Sidenote: Sailing of the fleet.]
[Sidenote: Preparations of the Britons.]

It was one o'clock in the morning when the fleet set sail. The Britons
had, in the mean time, obtained intelligence of Caesar's threatened
invasion, and they had assembled in great force, with troops, and
horsemen, and carriages of war, and were all ready to guard the shore.
The coast, at the point where Caesar was approaching, consists of a line
of chalky cliffs, with valley-like openings here and there between them,
communicating with the shore, and sometimes narrow beaches below. When
the Roman fleet approached the land, Caesar found the cliffs every where
lined with troops of Britons, and every accessible point below carefully
guarded. It was now about ten o'clock in the morning, and Caesar,
finding the prospect so unfavorable in respect to the practicability of
effecting a landing here, brought his fleet to anchor near the shore,
but far enough from it to be safe from the missiles of the enemy.

[Sidenote: Caesar calls a council of officers.]

Here he remained for several hours, to give time for all the vessels to
join him. Some of them had been delayed in the embarkation, or had made
slower progress than the rest in crossing the Channel. He called a
council, too, of the superior officers of the army on board his own
galley, and explained to them the plan which he now adopted for the
landing. About three o'clock in the afternoon he sent these officers
back to their respective ships, and gave orders to make sail along the
shore. The anchors were raised and the fleet moved on, borne by the
united impulse of the wind and the tide. The Britons, perceiving this
movement, put themselves in motion on the land, following the motions of
the fleet so as to be ready to meet their enemy wherever they might
ultimately undertake to land. Their horsemen and carriages went on in
advance, and the foot soldiers followed, all pressing eagerly forward to
keep up with the motion of the fleet, and to prevent Caesar's army from
having time to land before they should arrive at the spot and be ready
to oppose them.

[Illustration: THE LANDING IN ENGLAND]

[Sidenote: The landing.]
[Sidenote: The battle.]
[Sidenote: Defeat of the Britons.]

The fleet moved on until, at length, after sailing about eight miles,
they came to a part of the coast where there was a tract of
comparatively level ground, which seemed to be easily accessible from
the shore. Here Caesar determined to attempt to land; and drawing up his
vessel, accordingly, as near as possible to the beach, he ordered the
men to leap over into the water, with their weapons in their hands. The
Britons were all here to oppose them, and a dreadful struggle ensued,
the combatants dyeing the waters with their blood as they fought, half
submerged in the surf which rolled in upon the sand. Some galleys rowed
up at the same time near to the shore, and the men on board of them
attacked the Britons from the decks, by the darts and arrows which they
shot to the land. Caesar at last prevailed; the Britons were driven
away, and the Roman army established themselves in quiet possession of
the shore.

[Sidenote: Caesar's popularity at Rome.]

Caesar had afterward a great variety of adventures, and many narrow
escapes from imminent dangers in Britain, and, though he gained
considerable glory by thus penetrating into such remote and unknown
regions, there was very little else to be acquired. The glory, however,
was itself of great value to Caesar. During the whole period of his
campaigns in Gaul, Rome and all Italy in fact, had been filled with the
fame of his exploits, and the expedition into Britain added not a little
to his renown. The populace of the city were greatly gratified to hear
of the continued success of their former favorite. They decreed to him
triumph after triumph, and were prepared to welcome him, whenever he
should return, with greater honors and more extended and higher powers
than he had ever enjoyed before.

[Sidenote: Results of his campaigns.]

Caesar's exploits in these campaigns were, in fact, in a military point
of view, of the most magnificent character. Plutarch, in summing up the
results of them, says that he took eight hundred cities, conquered three
hundred nations, fought pitched battles at separate times with three
millions of men, took one million of prisoners, and killed another
million on the field. What a vast work of destruction was this for a man
to spend eight years of his life in performing upon his
fellow-creatures, merely to gratify his insane love of dominion.


CHAPTER V.

POMPEY.

[Sidenote: Pompey.]

While Caesar had thus been rising to so high an elevation, there was
another Roman general who had been, for nearly the same period, engaged,
in various other quarters of the world, in acquiring, by very similar
means, an almost equal renown. This general was Pompey. He became, in
the end, Caesar's great and formidable rival. In order that the reader
may understand clearly the nature of the great contest which sprung up
at last between these heroes, we must now go back and relate some of the
particulars of Pompey's individual history down to the time of the
completion of Caesar's conquests in Gaul.

[Sidenote: His birth.]
[Sidenote: Pompey's personal appearance.]

Pompey was a few years older than Caesar, having been born in 106 B.C.
His father was a Roman general, and the young Pompey was brought up in
camp. He was a young man of very handsome figure and countenance, and of
very agreeable manners. His hair curled slightly over his forehead, and
he had a dark and intelligent eye, full of vivacity and meaning. There
was, besides, in the expression of his face, and in his air and address,
a certain indescribable charm, which prepossessed every one strongly in
his favor, and gave him, from his earliest years, a great personal
ascendency over all who knew him.

[Sidenote: Plans to assassinate him.]

Notwithstanding this popularity, however, Pompey did not escape, even in
very early life, incurring his share of the dangers which seemed to
environ the path of every public man in those distracted times. It will
be recollected that, in the contests between Marius and Sylla, Caesar
had joined the Marian faction. Pompey's father, on the other hand, had
connected himself with that of Sylla. At one time, in the midst of these
wars, when Pompey was very young, a conspiracy was formed to assassinate
his father by burning him in his tent, and Pompey's comrade, named
Terentius, who slept in the same tent with him, had been bribed to kill
Pompey himself at the same time, by stabbing him in his bed. Pompey
contrived to discover this plan, but, instead of being at all
discomposed by it, he made arrangements for a guard about his father's
tent and then went to supper as usual with Terentius, conversing with
him all the time in even a more free and friendly manner than usual.
That night he arranged his bed so as to make it appear as if he was in
it, and then stole away. When the appointed hour arrived, Terentius came
into the tent, and, approaching the couch where he supposed Pompey was
lying asleep, stabbed it again and again, piercing the coverlets in many
places, but doing no harm, of course, to his intended victim.

[Sidenote: Pompey's adventures and escapes.]
[Sidenote: Death of his father.]
[Sidenote: Pompey appears in his father's defense.]

In the course of the wars between Marius and Sylla, Pompey passed
through a great variety of scenes, and met with many extraordinary
adventures and narrow escapes, which, however, can not be here
particularly detailed. His father, who was as much hated by his soldiers
as the son was beloved, was at last, one day, struck by lightning in his
tent. The soldiers were inspired with such a hatred for his memory, in
consequence, probably, of the cruelties and oppressions which they had
suffered from him, that they would not allow his body to be honored with
the ordinary funeral obsequies. They pulled it off from the bier on
which it was to have been borne to the funeral pile, and dragged it
ignominiously away. Pompey's father was accused, too, after his death,
of having converted some public moneys which had been committed to his
charge to his own use, and Pompey appeared in the Roman Forum as an
advocate to defend him from the charge and to vindicate his memory. He
was very successful in this defense. All who heard it were, in the first
instance, very deeply interested in favor of the speaker, on account of
his extreme youth and his personal beauty; and, as he proceeded with his
plea, he argued with so much eloquence and power as to win universal
applause. One of the chief officers of the government in the city was so
much pleased with his appearance, and with the promise of future
greatness which the circumstances indicated, that he offered him his
daughter in marriage. Pompey accepted the offer, and married the lady.
Her name was Antistia.

[Sidenote: His success as a general.]
[Sidenote: Pompey defeats the armies.]

Pompey rose rapidly to higher and higher degrees of distinction, until
he obtained the command of an army, which he had, in fact, in a great
measure raised and organized himself, and he fought at the head of it
with great energy and success against the enemies of Sylla. At length he
was hemmed in on the eastern coast of Italy by three separate armies,
which were gradually advancing against him, with a certainty, as they
thought, of effecting his destruction. Sylla, hearing of Pompey's
danger, made great efforts to march to his rescue. Before he reached the
place, however, Pompey had met and defeated one after another of the
armies of his enemies, so that, when Sylla approached, Pompey marched
out to meet him with his army drawn up in magnificent array, trumpets
sounding and banners flying, and with large bodies of disarmed troops,
the prisoners that he had taken, in the rear. Sylla was struck with
surprise and admiration; and when Pompey saluted him with the title of
_Imperator_, which was the highest title known to the Roman
constitution, and the one which Sylla's lofty rank and unbounded power
might properly claim, Sylla returned the compliment by conferring this
great mark of distinction on him.

[Sidenote: His rising fame.]
[Sidenote: Pompey's modesty.]

Pompey proceeded to Rome, and the fame of his exploits, the singular
fascination of his person and manners, and the great favor with Sylla
that he enjoyed, raised him to a high degree of distinction. He was not,
however, elated with the pride and vanity which so young a man would be
naturally expected to exhibit under such circumstances. He was, on the
contrary, modest and unassuming, and he acted in all respects in such a
manner as to gain the approbation and the kind regard of all who knew
him, as well as to excite their applause. There was an old general at
this time in Gaul--for all these events took place long before the time
of Caesar's campaigns in that country, and, in fact, before the
commencement of his successful career in Rome--whose name was Metellus,
and who, either on account of his advancing age, or for some other
reason, was very inefficient and unsuccessful in his government. Sylla
proposed to supersede him by sending Pompey to take his place. Pompey
replied that it was not right to take the command from a man who was so
much his superior in age and character, but that, if Metellus wished for
his _assistance_ in the management of his command, he would proceed to
Gaul and render him every service in his power. When this answer was
reported to Metellus, he wrote to Pompey to come. Pompey accordingly
went to Gaul, where he obtained new victories, and gained new and higher
honors than before.

[Sidenote: An example.]
[Sidenote: Pompey divorces his wife.]
[Sidenote: He marries Sylla's daughter-in-law.]

These, and various anecdotes which the ancient historians relate, would
lead us to form very favorable ideas of Pompey's character. Some other
circumstances, however, which occurred, seem to furnish different
indications. For example, on his return to Rome, some time after the
events above related, Sylla, whose estimation of Pompey's character and
of the importance of his services seemed continually to increase, wished
to connect him with his own family by marriage. He accordingly proposed
that Pompey should divorce his wife Antistia, and marry Aemilia, the
daughter-in-law of Sylla. Aemilia was already the wife of another man,
from whom she would have to be taken away to make her the wife of
Pompey. This, however, does not seem to have been thought a very serious
difficulty in the way of the arrangement. Pompey's wife was put away,
and the wife of another man taken in her place. Such a deed was a gross
violation not merely of revealed and written law, but of those universal
instincts of right and wrong which are implanted indelibly in all human
hearts. It ended, as might have been expected, most disastrously.
Antistia was plunged, of course, into the deepest distress. Her father
had recently lost his life on account of his supposed attachment to
Pompey. Her mother killed herself in the anguish and despair produced by
the misfortunes of her family; and Aemilia the new wife, died suddenly,
on the occasion of the birth of a child, a very short time after her
marriage with Pompey.

[Sidenote: Pompey's success in Africa.]
[Sidenote: Attachment of his soldiers.]
[Sidenote: Pompey's title as "Great."]

These domestic troubles did not, however, interpose any serious obstacle
to Pompey's progress in his career of greatness and glory. Sylla sent
him on one great enterprise after another, in all of which Pompey
acquitted himself in an admirable manner. Among his other campaigns, he
served for some time in Africa with great success. He returned in due
time from this expedition, loaded with military honors. His soldiers had
become so much attached to him that there was almost a mutiny in the
army when he was ordered home. They were determined to submit to no
authority but that of Pompey. Pompey at length succeeded, by great
efforts, in subduing this spirit, and bringing back the army to their
duty. A false account of the affair, however, went to Rome. It was
reported to Sylla that there was a revolt in the army of Africa, headed
by Pompey himself, who was determined not to resign his command. Sylla
was at first very indignant that his authority should be despised and
his power braved, as he expressed it, by "such a boy;" for Pompey was
still, at this time, very young. When, however, he learned the truth, he
conceived a higher admiration for the young general than ever. He went
out to meet him as he approached the city, and, in accosting him, he
called him Pompey the Great. Pompey has continued to bear the title thus
given him to the present day.

[Sidenote: He demands a triumph.]

Pompey began, it seems, now to experience, in some degree, the usual
effects produced upon the human heart by celebrity and praise. He
demanded a triumph. A triumph was a great and splendid ceremony, by
which victorious generals, who were of advanced age and high civil or
military rank, were received into the city when returning from any
specially glorious campaign. There was a grand procession formed on
these occasions, in which various emblems and insignia, and trophies of
victory, and captives taken by the conqueror, were displayed. This great
procession entered the city with bands of music accompanying it, and
flags and banners flying, passing under triumphal arches erected along
the way. Triumphs were usually decreed by a vote of the Senate, in cases
where they were deserved; but, in this case, Sylla's power as dictator
was supreme, and Pompey's demand for a triumph seems to have been
addressed accordingly to him.

[Sidenote: Sylla refuses Pompey a triumph.]

Sylla refused it. Pompey's performances in the African campaign had
been, he admitted, very creditable to him, but he had neither the Age
nor the rank to justify the granting him a triumph. To bestow such an
honor upon one so young and in such a station, would only bring the
honor itself, he said, into disrepute, and degrade, also, his
dictatorship for suffering it.

[Sidenote: But at last consents.]

The design of it was to defeat and destroy at Ferol, as well as in the
other ports of the enemy, the Spanish fleet intended for a new expedition
against England and Ireland; and to seize upon such Indian fleets
of treasure, as they should meet with belonging to the king of
Spain, to conquer, restrain, and garrison, most of the Isles of the
Azores, and especially the Terceras. But the success of this expedition
did not answer the greatness of the preparations for it; the jealousy
of the earl of Essex the commander, obstructing the services which
Sir Walter's abilities might otherwise have performed.

In the council of war, which was held before the isle of Flores,
it was resolved that the general and Sir Walter should jointly
attack the island of Fyal; where the latter waited seven days for
his lordship, and hearing nothing of him, called a council of war,
in which it was determined that Raleigh should attempt the town
himself, which he did with astonishing bravery and success.

Essex finding himself deprived of the honour of taking Fyal, was
exasperated to such a degree, that he broke some of the officers who
had behaved with great gallantry under Raleigh, and some of his
sycophants alledged that Raleigh himself deserved to lose his head for
breach of articles in landing without his lordships orders. Upon
their return to England the earl endeavoured to transfer the miscarriages
of the expedition upon Raleigh, and gained to his side the populace,
whom Sir Walter never courted, and whose patronage he scorned; but the
Queen herself was not well pleased with the earl's conduct, since
it was judged he might have done more than he did; and his proceedings
against Sir Walter in calling his actions to public question, were
highly disapproved [8].

The next important transaction we find Raleigh engaged in, was in
1601, when the unfortunate earl of Essex, who had calumniated him
to the king of Scotland, and endeavoured all he could to shake his
interest, was so ill advised by his creatures, as to attempt a
public insurrection.

Raleigh was active in suppressing it: the earl pretended that the cause
of his taking arms was to defend himself against the violence of
his personal enemies, the lord Cobham and Raleigh having formed a
design of murdering him; tho' on the other hand it is pretty
certain, that Sir Ferdinand Gorges, one of the earl's accomplices,
afterwards accused Sir Christopher Blount, another of them, for persuading
him to kill, or at least apprehend, Sir Walter; which Gorges refusing,
Blount discharged four shots after him in a boat.
Blount acknowledged this, and at the time of his execution asked Sir
Walter forgiveness for it; which he readily granted.----While
the earl garisoned his house, Sir Walter was one of those who invested
it, and when his lordship was brought to his trial, he with forty
of the queen's guard was present upon duty, and was likewise examined
with relation to a conference which he had upon the Thames the morning
of the insurrection with Sir Ferdinando Gorges. At the execution of
Essex, six days after, in the Tower, Raleigh attended, probably
in his character of captain of the guard, and stood near the
scaffold that he might the better answer if Essex should be desirous
of speaking to him, but retired before the earl's execution, because
the people seemed to take his appearance there in a wrong light;
tho' he afterwards repented of it, as the earl expressed an inclination
to see and speak with him before his death, which was in all
probability to have asked Raleigh's forgiveness for having traduced,
and calumniated him in order to colour his own rash designs.

In 1602 our author sold his estate
in Ireland, to Mr. Boyle, afterwards earl
of Cork, and about Midsummer he settled his estate
of Sherbone on his son Walter, on account of a challenge which he
had received from Sir Amias Preston, who had been knighted at Cadiz
by the earl of Essex; which challenge Sir Walter intended to accept,
and therefore disposed his affairs in proper order.

The cause of their quarrel does not appear, but they were afterwards
reconciled without proceeding to a duel[9].

The death of Queen Elizabeth on the 24th of March 1602-3 proved a
great misfortune to Raleigh; James her successor having been prejudiced
against him by the earl of Essex, who insinuated that Raleigh was no
friend to his succession, nor had any regard for his family. And these
prejudices were heightened by secretary Cecil in his private correspondence
with that pusilanimous, jealous prince, before he ascended the Throne
of England, or at least immediately upon that event; for tho' Raleigh
and Cecil had united against Essex, yet after the ruin of that
earl and his party, their seeming friendship terminated in a mutual
struggle for a superiority of power. But there is another important cause
of James's disgust to Sir Walter, which is, that he, lord Cobham, and
Sir John Fortescue, would have obliged the king to articles before
he was admitted to the throne, and that the number of his countrymen
should be limitted; which added to the circumstance of Sir Walter's
zeal to take off his mother, inspired his majesty with a confirmed
aversion to him; and indeed the tragical end of the queen of Scots
is, perhaps, the greatest error with which the annals of that glorious
reign is stained. Raleigh in vain endeavoured to gain the affection
of the new king, which he attempted by transfering on secretary Cecil
the blood of the earl of Essex, as well as that of his royal mother; but
this attempt to secure the affections of a weak prince, ended in his
ruin, for it exasperated Cecil the more against him; and as Sir Walter
was of an active martial genius, the king, who was a lover of peace,
and a natural coward, was afraid that so military a man would involve
him in a war, which he hated above all things in the world. Our
author was soon removed from his command as captain of the guard,
which was bestowed upon Sir Thomas Erskin, his majesty's favourite
as well as countryman[10], the predecessor to the earl of Mar, whose
actions, performed in the year 1715, are recent in every one's
memory.

Not long after his majesty's ascending the
throne of England, Sir Walter was charged with a plot against the
king and royal family; but no clear evidence was ever produced that
Raleigh had any concern in it.

The plot was to have surprized the king and court, to have created
commotions in Scotland, animated the discontented in England, and
advanced Arabella Stuart, cousin to the king, to the throne. Arabella
was the daughter of lord Charles Stuart, younger brother to Henry
lord Darnly, and son to the duke of Lenox. She was afterwards married
to William Seymour, son to lord Beauchamp, and grandson to the earl
of Hertford; and both were confined for the presumption of marrying
without his majesty's consent, from which they made their escape, but
were again retaken. Lady Arabella died of grief, and Mr. Seymour lived
to be a great favourite with Charles I. Raleigh persisted in avowing
his ignorance of the plot, and when he came to his trial, he behaved
himself so prudently, and defended himself with so much force, that
the minds of the people present, who were at first exasperated against
him, were turned from the severest hatred to the tenderest pity.
Notwithstanding Sir Walter's proof that he was innocent of any such plot,
and that lord Cobham, who had once accused him had recanted, and signed
his recantation, nor was produced against him face to face, a
pack'd jury brought him in guilty of high treason.

Sentence of death being pronounced against
him, he humbly requested that the king might be made acquainted
with the proofs upon which he was cast.

He accompanied the Sheriff to prison with wonderful magnanimity, tho' in
a manner suited to his unhappy situation. Raleigh was kept near a month
at Winchester in daily expectation of death, and in a very pathetic
letter wrote his last words to his wife the night before he expected to
suffer[11], in which he hoped his blood would quench their malice who
had murdered him, and prayed God to forgive his persecutors, and accusers.
The king signed the warrant for the execution of the lords Cobham and
Grey, and Sir Griffin Markham, at Winchester, pretending, says lord Cecil,
to forbear Sir Walter for the present, till lord Cobham's death had
given some light how far he would make good his accusation. Markham
was first brought upon the scaffold, and when he was on his knees,
ready to receive the blow of the ax, the groom of the bedchamber
produced to the sheriff his Majesty's warrant to stop the execution; and
Markham was told that he must withdraw a while into the hall to
be confronted by the Lords.

Then Lord Grey was brought forth, and having poured out his prayers
and confession, was likewise called aside, and lastly Lord Cobham
was exposed in the same manner, and performed his devotions, though
we do not find that he said one word of his guilt or innocence, or
charged Raleigh with having instigated him; all which circumstances
seem more than sufficient to wipe off from the memory of Raleigh
the least suspicion of any plot against James's person or government.

He was remanded to the Tower of London with the rest of the prisoners,
of whom Markham afterwards obtained his liberty, and travelled abroad.

Lord Grey of Wilton died in the Tower; Lord Cobham was confined there
many years, during which, it is said, he was examined by the King in
relation to Raleigh, and entirely cleared him; he afterwards died
in the lowest circumstances of distress.

In February following a grant was made by the King of all the goods
and chattels forfeited by Sir Walter's conviction to the trustees
of his appointing for the benefit of his creditors, lady and
children.

After 12 years confinement in the Tower, in March 1615 he was released
out of it, by the interposition of the favourite Buckingham;
but before he quitted that place he saw the earl of Somerset
committed there for the murder of Sir Thomas Overbury, and afterwards
condemned, which occasioned Sir Walter to compare his own case with
that of the earl's, and to remark, 'That the whole History of the
World had not the like precedent of a King's prisoner to purchase
freedom, and his bosom favourite 'to have the halter, but in scripture,
in the case of Mordecai and Haman;' on hearing which, the King is
said to have replied, that Raleigh might die in that deceit, which
afterwards proved true, for the King pardoned the infamous Somerset,
a murderer, and executed Raleigh, a brave and an honest man, equally
to the astonishment of the world.

Sir Walter being now at large, had the means of
prosecuting his old scheme of settling Guiana, which he had so
much at heart, that even during his imprisonment, he held a constant
correspondence with that country, sending thither every year, or
every second year, a ship, to keep the Indians in hopes of being
relieved from the tyranny of the Spaniards, who had again encroached
upon them, and massacred many, both of the inhabitants and of
Raleigh's men.

In these ships were brought several natives of the country, with whom
he conversed in the Tower, and obtained all possible informations
concerning it. Upon such informations he offered his scheme for
prosecuting his discovery to the court before he undertook it in person:
nor were there any doubts either as to the improbability of the design,
or its unlawfulness, notwithstanding the peace made with Spain, otherwise
the King would not have made such grants, as he did, even at that time,
which shews that he was then convinced, that Sir Walter had in his first
voyage discovered and taken possession of that country for the crown of
England, and consequently that his subjects were justly intitled to
any benefits that might arise from its discovery, without the least
respect to the pretensions of the Spaniards: Besides, when Sir
Walter first moved the court upon this subject, the Spanish match
was not thought of, and the King's necessities being then very
pressing, he may be presumed to have conceived great hopes from
that discovery, though he might afterwards change his opinion, when
he grew so unreasonably fond of that match.

In 1616, he obtained a royal commission to settle Guiana at the
expence of himself and his friends; he was appointed General, and
Commander in Chief of this enterprize, and Governor of the new
country, which he was to settle with ample authority; a power was
granted him too, of exercising martial law in such a manner as the
King's Lieutenant General by sea or land, or any Lieutenants of the
counties of England had.

These powers seem to imply a virtual pardon to Raleigh, and perhaps
made, him less solicitous for an actual one.
Meantime Gondemar the Spanish ambassador, by his address, vivacity, and
flattering the humours of James, had gained a great ascendency over him,
and began to make a great clamour about Raleigh's preparations, and
from that moment formed schemes of destroying him.
The whole expence of this expedition was defrayed by Raleigh and his
friends; the fleet consisted of about seven sail. On the 17th of
November, 1617, they came in sight of Guiana, and soon after to anchor,
in five degrees off the river Caliana, where they remained till the
4th of December. Raleigh was received with great joy by the Indians, who
not only assisted him with provisions, and every thing else in their
power, but offered him the sovereignty of their country if he would
settle amongst them, which he declined to accept.[12] His extreme
sickness for six weeks prevented him from undertaking the discovery
of the mines in person, and was obliged to depute captain Keymis
to that service; and accordingly on the 4th of December, ordered
five small ships to sail into the river Oronoque.

When they landed, they found a Spanish garrison between them and the mine,
which sallying out unexpectedly, put them in confusion, and gave them
battle. In this conflict young Raleigh was killed, and by a fatal mistake,
captain Keymis did not prove the mine, but burnt and plundered the
Spanish garrison, and found amongst the governor's papers one, which
informed him, that Raleigh's expedition had been betrayed, and
that he was to be sacrificed to the Spaniards.

Upon Keymis's unsuccessful attempt, Raleigh sharply rebuked him for
his mistake, and a deviation from his orders, which so much affected
that captain, that he shot himself in his own cabin, and finding
the wound not mortal, he finished his design by a long knife with
which he stabbed himself to the heart.

In this distressful situation Raleigh returned home, and found on his
arrival at Plymouth, a declaration published against him; at which he
took the alarm, and contrived to convey himself out of the kingdom
in a vessel hired for that purpose by an old officer of his; but changing
his opinion in that respect, he proceeded in his journey to London.

Yet thinking it proper to gain time for the appeasing his majesty, by the
assistance of one Maneuric a French quack, he counterfeited sickness
for several days, during which he wrote his apology. However on
the 7th of August he arrived at London, where he was confined in his
own house; but having still good reasons not to trust himself to
the mercy of the court, he formed a design to escape into France, which
Sir Lewis Stackley, who was privy to, and encouraged it, discovered,
and Sir Walter being seized in a boat upon the river below Woolwich,
was a second time, on the 10th of August, committed to the Tower;
but tho' his death seemed absolutely determined, yet it seemed
difficult to find a method of accomplishing it, since his conduct
in the late expedition could not be stretched in law to such a
sentence.

It was resolved therefore,
to sacrifice him to the resentment of Spain, in a manner so shameful,
that it has justly exposed the conduct of the court to the indignation
of all succeeding ages, and transmitted the pusillanimous monarch
with infamy to posterity.

They called him down to judgment upon his former sentence passed
fifteen years before, which they were not then ashamed to execute. A
privy seal was sent to the judges to order immediate execution, on which
a conference was held Friday the 24th of Oct. 1688, between all the
judges of England, concerning the manner, how prisoners who have been
attainted of treason and set at liberty, should be brought to
execution. In consequence of their revolution, a privy seal came to the
King's-Bench, commanding that court to proceed against Sir Walter
according to law, who next day received notice of the council to
prepare himself for death; and on Wednesday the 28th of that month,
at 8 o'clock in the morning, was taken out of bed in the hot fit
of an ague, and carried to the King's-Bench, Westminster, where
execution was awarded against him.

The next morning, the 29th of October, the day
of the lord-mayor's inauguration, a solemnity never perhaps attended
before with a public execution, Sir Walter was conducted by the
sheriffs of Middlesex to the Old Palace Yard in Westminster, where
mounting the scaffold, he behaved with the most undaunted spirit,
and seeming cheerfulness.

The bishop of Salisbury (Tohon) being surprized at the hero's contempt
of death, and expostulating with him upon it; he told him plainly
that he never feared death, and much less then, for which he blessed
God, and as to the manner of it, tho' to others it might seem grievous,
yet for himself he had rather die so than in a burning fever. This
verifies the noble observation of Shakespear, that all heroes have a
contempt of death; which he puts in the mouth of Julius Cæsar when his
friends dissuaded him from going to the Senate-House.

Cowards die many a time before their deaths, The valiant never taste
of death but once.

Of all the wonders, I have heard of
yet, It seems to me most strange,
that men should fear, Seeing that death, the
necessary end, Will come, when it will come.----
Sir Walter eat his breakfast that morning, smoaked his pipe, and
made no more of death, than if he had been to take a journey.

On the scaffold he conversed freely with the Earl of Arundel and others
of the nobility, and vindicated himself from two suspicions; the
first, of entering into a confederacy with France; the second, of
speaking disloyally of his Majesty. He cleared himself likewise of the
suspicion of having persecuted the Earl of Essex, or of insulting him
at his death. He concluded with desiring the good people to join with
him in prayer, to that great God of Heaven, "whom (says he) I have
grievously offended, being a man full of vanity, who has lived a sinful
life, in such callings as have been most inducing to it: For I have
been a soldier, a sailor, and a courtier; which are courses of wickedness
and vice." The proclamation being made that all men should depart the
scaffold, he prepared himself for death, gave away his hat and cap, and
money to some attendants that stood near him. When he took leave of
the lords, and other gentlemen that stood near him, he entreated the
Lord Arundel to prevail with the King that no scandalous writings
to defame him, should be published after his death; concluding, "I
have a long journey to go, and therefore will take my leave." Then
having put off his gown and doublet, he called to the executioner to
shew him the axe, which not being presently done; he said, "I pray
thee let me see it; don't thou think I am afraid of it;" and having it
in his hands he felt along the edge of it, and smiling, said to the
sheriff; "This is a sharp medicine, but it is a physician for all diseases."

After being for some days in
considerable danger, the crisis passed favorably, and he recovered. Some
of the people of Naples proposed a public thanksgiving to the gods, to
celebrate his restoration to health. The plan was adopted by
acclamation, and the example, thus set, extended from city to city,
until it had spread throughout Italy, and the whole country was filled
with the processions, games, shows, and celebrations, which were
instituted every where in honor of the event. And when Pompey returned
from Naples to Rome, the towns on the way could not afford room for the
crowds that came forth to meet him. The high roads, the villages, the
ports, says Plutarch, were filled with sacrifices and entertainments.
Many received him with garlands on their heads and torches in their
hands, and, as they conducted him along, strewed the way with flowers.

[Sidenote: Pompey's estimate of Caesar's power.]

In fact, Pompey considered himself as standing far above Caesar in fame
and power, and this general burst of enthusiasm and applause, educed by
his recovery from sickness, confirmed him in this idea. He felt no
solicitude, he said, in respect to Caesar. He should take no special
precautions against any hostile designs which he might entertain on his
return from Gaul. It was he himself, he said, that had raised Caesar up
to whatever of elevation he had attained, and he could put him down even
more easily than he had exalted him.

[Sidenote: Plans of the latter.]

In the mean time, the period was drawing near in which Caesar's command
in the provinces was to expire; and, anticipating the struggle with
Pompey which was about to ensue, he conducted several of his legions
through the passes of the Alps, and advanced gradually, as he had a
right to do, across the country of the Po toward the Rubicon, revolving
in his capacious mind, as he came, the various plans by which he might
hope to gain the ascendency over the power of his mighty rival, and make
himself supreme.

[Sidenote: Caesar arrives at Ravenna.]
[Sidenote: Pompey's demands.]

He concluded that it would be his wisest policy not to a'tempt to
intimidate Pompey by great and open preparations for war, which might
tend to arouse him to vigorous measures of resistance, but rather to
cover and conceal his designs, and thus throw his enemy off his guard.
He advanced, therefore, toward the Rubicon with a small force. He
established his headquarters at Ravenna, a city not far from the river,
and employed himself in objects of local interest there, in order to
avert as much as possible the minds of the people from imagining that he
was contemplating any great design. Pompey sent to him to demand the
return of a certain legion which he had lent him from his own army at a
time when they were friends. Caesar complied with this demand without
any hesitation, and sent the legion home. He sent with this legion,
also, some other troops which were properly his own, thus evincing a
degree of indifference in respect to the amount of the force retained
under his command which seemed wholly inconsistent with the idea that he
contemplated any resistance to the authority of the government at Rome.

[Sidenote: Caesar demands to be made consul.]
[Sidenote: Excitement in consequence.]

In the mean time, the struggle at Rome between the partisans of Caesar
and Pompey grew more and more violent and alarming. Caesar through his
friends in the city, demanded to be elected consul. The other side
insisted that he must first, if that was his wish, resign the command of
his army, come to Rome, and present himself as a candidate in the
character of a private citizen. This the constitution of the state very
properly required. In answer to this requisition, Caesar rejoined, that,
if Pompey would lay down his military commands, he would do so too; if
not, it was unjust to require it of him. The services, he added, which
he had performed for his country, demanded some recompense, which,
moreover, they ought to be willing to award, even if, in order to do it,
it were necessary to relax somewhat in his favor the strictness of
ordinary rules. To a large part of the people of the city these demands
of Caesar appeared reasonable. They were clamorous to have them allowed.
The partisans of Pompey, with the stern and inflexible Cato at their
head, deemed them wholly inadmissible, and contended with the most
determined violence against them. The whole city was filled with the
excitement of this struggle, into which all the active and turbulent
spirits of the capital plunged with the most furious zeal, while the
more considerate and thoughtful of the population, remembering the days
of Marius and Sylla, trembled at the impending danger. Pompey himself
had no fear. He urged the Senate to resist to the utmost all of Caesar's
claims, saying, if Caesar should be so presumptuous as to attempt to
march to Rome, he could raise troops enough by stamping with his foot to
put him down.

[Sidenote: Debates in the Senate.]
[Sidenote: Tumult and confusion.]
[Sidenote: Panic at Rome.]

It would require a volume to contain a full account of the disputes and
tumults, the maneuvers and debates, the votes and decrees which marked
the successive stages of this quarrel. Pompey himself was all the time
without the city. He was in command of an army there, and no general,
while in command, was allowed to come within the gates. At last an
exciting debate was broken up in the Senate by one of the consuls rising
to depart, saying that he would hear the subject discussed no longer.
The time had arrived for action, and he should send a commander, with an
armed force, to defend the country from Caesar's threatened invasion.
Caesar's leading friends, two tribunes of the people, disguised
themselves as slaves, and fled to the north to join their master. The
country was filled with commotion and panic. The Commonwealth had
obviously more fear of Caesar than confidence in Pompey. The country
was full of rumors in respect to Caesar's power, and the threatening
attitude which he was assuming, while they who had insisted on
resistance seemed, after all, to have provided very inadequate means
with which to resist. A thousand plans were formed, and clamorously
insisted upon by their respective advocates, for averting the danger.
This only added to the confusion, and the city became at length pervaded
with a universal terror.

[Sidenote: Caesar at Ravenna.]

While this was the state of things at Rome, Caesar was quietly
established at Ravenna; thirty or forty miles from the frontier. He was
erecting a building for a fencing school there and his mind seemed to be
occupied very busily with the plans and models of the edifice which the
architects had formed. Of course, in his intended march to Rome, his
reliance was not to be so much on the force which he should take with
him, as on the co-operation and support which he expected to find there.
It was his policy, therefore, to move as quietly and privately as
possible, and with as little display of violence, and to avoid every
thing which might indicate his intended march to any spies which might
be around him, or to any other person! who might be disposed to report
what they observed at Rome. Accordingly, on the very eve of his
departure, he busied himself with his fencing school, and assumed with
his officers and soldiers a careless and unconcerned air, which
prevented any one from suspecting his design.

[Sidenote: Caesar's midnight march.]
[Sidenote: He loses his way.]

In the course of the day he privately sent forward some cohorts to the
southward, with orders for them to encamp on the banks of the Rubicon.
When night came he sat down to supper as usual, and conversed with his
friends in his ordinary manner, and went with them afterward to a public
entertainment. As soon as it was dark and the streets were still, he set
off secretly from the city, accompanied by a very few attendants.
Instead of making use of his ordinary equipage, the parading of which
would have attracted attention to his movements, he had some mules taken
from a neighboring bake-house, and harnessed into his chaise. There were
torch-bearers provided to light the way. The cavalcade drove on during
the night, finding, however, the hasty preparations which had been made
inadequate for the occasion. The torches went out, the guides lost their
way, and the future conqueror of the world wandered about bewildered and
lost, until, just after break of day, the party met with a peasant
who undertook to guide them. Under his direction they made their way to
the main road again, and advanced then without further difficulty to the
banks of the river, where they found that portion of the army which had
been sent forward encamped, and awaiting their arrival.

[Illustration: CROSSING THE RUBICON]

[Sidenote: Caesar at the Rubicon.]
[Sidenote: His hesitation at the river.]

Caesar stood for some time upon the banks of the stream, musing upon the
greatness of the undertaking in which simply passing across it would
involve him. His officers stood by his side. "We can retreat _now_" said
he, "but once across that river and we must go on." He paused for some
time, conscious of the vast importance of the decision, though he
thought only, doubtless, of its consequences to himself. Taking the step
which was now before him would necessarily end either in his realizing
the loftiest aspirations of his ambition, or in his utter and
irreparable ruin. There were vast public interests, too, at stake, of
which, however he probably thought but little. It proved, in the end,
that the history of the whole Roman world, for several centuries, was
depending upon the manner in which the question new in Caesar's mind
should turn.

[Sidenote: Story of the shepherd trumpeter.]

There was a little bridge across the Rubicon at the point where Caesar
was surveying it. While he was standing there, the story is, a peasant
or shepherd came from the neighboring fields with a shepherd's pipe--a
simple musical instrument, made of a reed, and used much by the rustic
musicians of those days. The soldiers and some of the officers gathered
around him to hear him play. Among the rest came some of Caesar's
trumpeters, with their trumpets in their hands. The shepherd took one of
these martial instruments from the hands of its possessor, laying aside
his own, and began to sound a charge--which is a signal for a rapid
advance--and to march at the same time over the bridge "An omen! a
prodigy!" said Caesar. "Let us march where we are called by such a
divine intimation. _The die is cast_."

[Sidenote: Caesar crosses the Rubicon.]

So saying, he pressed forward over the bridge, while the officers,
breaking up the encampment, put the columns in motion to follow him.

It was shown abundantly, on many occasions in the course of Caesar's
life, that he had no faith in omens. There are equally numerous
instances to show that he was always ready to avail himself of the
popular belief in them; to awaken his soldiers' ardor or to allay their
fears. Whether, therefore, in respect to this story of the shepherd
trumpeter, it was an incident that really and accidentally occurred, or
whether Caesar planned and arranged it himself, with reference to its
effect, or whether, which is, perhaps, after all, the most probable
supposition, the tale was only an embellishment invented out of
something or nothing by the story-tellers of those days, to give
additional dramatic interest to the narrative of the crossing of the
Rubicon, it must be left for each reader to decide.

[Sidenote: Caesar assembles his troops.]
[Sidenote: His address to them.]

As soon as the bridge was crossed, Caesar called an assembly of his
troops, and, with signs of great excitement and agitation, made an
address to them on the magnitude of the crisis through which they were
passing. He showed them how entirely he was in their power; he urged
them, by the most eloquent appeals, to stand by him, faithful and true,
promising them the most ample rewards when he should have attained the
object at which he aimed. The soldiers responded to this appeal with
promises of the most unwavering fidelity.

[Sidenote: Surrender of various towns.]

The first town on the Roman side of the Rubicon was Ariminum. Caesar
advanced to this town. The authorities opened its gates to him--very
willing, as it appeared, to receive him as their commander. Caesar's
force was yet quite small, as he had been accompanied by only a single
legion in crossing the river. He had, however, sent orders for the other
legions, which had been left in Gaul, to join him without any delay,
though any re-enforcement of his troops seemed hardly necessary, as he
found no indications of opposition to his progress. He gave his soldiers
the strictest injunctions to do no injury to any property, public or
private, as they advanced, and not to assume, in any respect, a hostile
attitude toward the people of the country. The inhabitants, therefore,
welcomed him wherever he came, and all the cities and towns followed the
example of Ariminum, surrendering, in fact, faster than he could take
possession of them.

[Sidenote: Domitius appointed to supersede Caesar.]

In the confusion of the debates and votes in the Senate at Rome before
Caesar crossed the Rubicon, one decree had been passed deposing him from
his command of the army, and appointing a successor. The name of the
general thus appointed was Domitius. The only real opposition which
Caesar encountered in his progress toward Rome was from him. Domitius
had crossed the Apennines at the head of an army on his way northward to
supersede Caesar in his command, and had reached the town of Corfinium,
which was perhaps one third of the way between Rome and the Rubicon.
Caesar advanced upon him here and shut him in.

[Sidenote: Caesar's treatment of Domitius.]

After a brief siege the city was taken, and Domitius and his army were
made prisoners. Every body gave them up for lost, expecting that Caesar
would wreak terrible vengeance upon them. Instead of this, he received
the troops at once into his own service, and let Domitius go free.

[Sidenote: Dismay at Rome.]
[Sidenote: Pompey's distress.]

In the mean time, the tidings of Caesar's having passed the Rubicon, and
of the triumphant success which he was meeting with at the commencement
of his march toward Rome, reached the Capitol, and added greatly to the
prevailing consternation. The reports of the magnitude of his force and
of the rapidity of his progress were greatly exaggerated. The party of
Pompey and the Senate had done every thing to spread among the people
the terror of Caesar's name, in order to arouse them to efforts for
opposing his designs; and now, when he had broken through the barriers
which had been intended to restrain him, and was advancing toward the
city in an unchecked and triumphant career, they were overwhelmed with
dismay. Pompey began to be terrified at the danger which was impending.
The Senate held meetings without the city--councils of war, as it were,
in which they looked to Pompey in vain for protection from the danger
which he had brought upon them. He had said that he could raise an army
sufficient to cope with Caesar at any time by stamping with his foot.
They told him they thought now that it was high time for him to stamp.

[Sidenote: He leaves Rome.]

In fact, Pompey found the current setting every where strongly against
him. Some recommended that commissioners should be sent to Caesar to
make proposals for peace. The leading men, however, knowing that any
peace made with him under such circumstances would be their own ruin,
resisted and defeated the proposal. Cato abruptly left the city and
proceeded to Sicily, which had been assigned him as his province. Others
fled in other directions. Pompey himself, uncertain what to do, and not
daring to remain, called upon all his partisans to join him, and set off
at night, suddenly, and with very little preparation and small supplies,
to retreat across the country toward the shores of the Adriatic Sea, His
destination was Brundusium, the usual port of embarkation for Macedon
and Greece.

[Sidenote: Enthusiasm of Caesar's soldiers.]

Caesar was all this time gradually advancing toward Rome. His soldiers
were full of enthusiasm in his cause. As his connection with the
government at home was sundered the moment he crossed the Rubicon, all
supplies of money and of provisions were cut off in that quarter until
he should arrive at the Capitol and take possession of it. The soldiers
voted, however, that they would serve him without pay. The officers,
too, assembled together, and tendered him the aid of their
contributions. He had always observed a very generous policy in his
dealings with them, and he was now greatly gratified at receiving their
requital of it.

[Sidenote: His policy in releasing Domitius.]

The further he advanced, too, the more he found the people of the
country through which he passed disposed to espouse his cause. They were
struck with his generosity in releasing Domitius. It is true that it was
a very sagacious policy that prompted him to release him. But then it
was generosity too. In fact, there must be something of a generous
spirit in the soul to enable a man even to see the policy of
generous actions.

[Sidenote: Letter of Caesar.]

Among the letters of Caesar that remain to the present day, there is one
written about this time to one of his friends, in which he speaks of
this subject. "I am glad," says he, "that you approve of my conduct at
Corfinium. I am satisfied that such a course is the best one for us to
pursue, as by so doing we shall gain the good will of all parties, and
thus secure a permanent victory. Most conquerors have incurred the
hatred of mankind by their cruelties, and have all, in consequence of
the enmity they have thus awakened, been prevented from long enjoying
their power. Sylla was an exception; but his example of successful
cruelty I have no disposition to imitate. I will conquer after a new
fashion, and fortify myself in the possession of the power I acquire by
generosity and mercy."

[Sidenote: Ingratitude of Domitius.]

Domitius had the ingratitude, after this release, to take up arms again,
and wage a new war against Caesar. When Caesar heard of it, he said it
was all right. "I will act out the principles of my nature," said he,
"and he may act out his."

[Sidenote: Caesar's generosity.]

Another instance of Caesar's generosity occurred, which is even more
remarkable than this. It seems that among the officers of his army there
were some whom he had appointed at the recommendation of Pompey, at the
time when he and Pompey were friends. These men would, of course, feel
under obligations of gratitude to Pompey, as they owed their military
rank to his friendly interposition in their behalf. As soon as the war
broke out, Caesar gave them all his free permission to go over to
Pompey's side, if they chose to do so.

[Sidenote: Modern politicians.]

Caesar acted thus very liberally in all respects. He surpassed Pompey
very much in the spirit of generosity and mercy with which he entered
upon the great contest before them. Pompey ordered every citizen to join
his standard, declaring that he should consider all neutrals as his
enemies. Caesar, on the other hand, gave free permission to every one to
decline, if he chose, taking any part in the contest, saying that he
should consider all who did not act against him as his friends. In the
political contests of our day, it is to be observed that the combatants
are much more prone to imitate the bigotry of Pompey than the generosity
of Caesar, condemning, as they often do, those who choose to stand aloof
from electioneering struggles, more than they do their most determined
opponents and enemies.

[Sidenote: Caesar arrives at Brundusium.]

When, at length, Caesar arrived at Brundusium, he found that Pompey had
sent a part of his army across the Adriatic into Greece, and was
waiting for the transports to return that he might go over himself with
the remainder. In the mean time, he had fortified himself strongly in
the city. Caesar immediately laid siege to the place, and he commenced
some works to block up the mouth of the harbor. He built piers on each
side, extending out as far into the sea as the depth of the water would
allow them to be built. He then constructed a series of rafts, which he
anchored on the deep water, in a line extending from one pier to the
other. He built towers upon these rafts, and garrisoned them with
soldiers, in hopes by this means to prevent all egress from the fort. He
thought that, when this work was completed, Pompey would be entirely
shut in, beyond all possibility of escape.

[Sidenote: He besieges Pompey.]
[Sidenote: Pompey's plan of escape.]

The transports, however, returned before the work was completed. Its
progress was, of course, slow, as the constructions were the scene of a
continued conflict; for Pompey sent out rafts and galleys against them
every day, and the workmen had thus to build in the midst of continual
interruptions, sometimes from showers of darts, arrows, and javelins,
sometimes from the conflagrations of fireships, and sometimes from the
terrible concussions of great vessels of war, impelled with prodigious
force against them. The transports returned, therefore, before the
defenses were complete, and contrived to get into the harbor. Pompey
immediately formed his plan for embarking the remainder of his army.

[Sidenote: It is made known to Caesar.]
[Sidenote: Success of Pompey's plan.]

He filled the streets of the city with barricades and pitfalls,
excepting two streets which led to the place of embarkation. The object
of these obstructions was to embarrass Caesar's progress through the
city in case he should force an entrance while his men were getting on
board the ships. He then, in order to divert Caesar's attention from his
design, doubled the guards stationed upon the walls on the evening of
his intended embarkation, and ordered them to make vigorous attacks upon
all Caesar's forces outside. He then, when the darkness came on, marched
his troops through the two streets which had been left open, to the
landing place, and got them as fast as possible on board the transports.
Some of the people of the town contrived to make known to Caesar's army
what was going on, by means of signals from the walls; the army
immediately brought scaling ladders in great numbers, and, mounting the
walls with great ardor and impetuosity, they drove all before them, and
soon broke open the gates and got possession of the city. But the
barricades and pitfalls, together with the darkness, so embarrassed
their movements, that Pompey succeeded in completing his embarkation and
sailing away.

[Sidenote: Caesar's conduct at Rome.]

Caesar had no ships in which to follow. He returned to Rome. He met, of
course, with no opposition. He re-established the government there,
organized the Senate anew, and obtained supplies of corn from the public
granaries, and of money from the city treasury in the Capitol. In going
to the Capitoline Hill after this treasure, he found the officer who had
charge of the money stationed there to defend it. He told Caesar that it
was contrary to law for him to enter. Caesar said that, for men with
swords in their hands, there was no law. The officer still refused to
admit him. Caesar then told him to open the doors, or he would kill him
on the spot. "And you must understand," he added, "that it will be
easier for me to do it than it has been to say it." The officer resisted
no longer, and Caesar went in.

[Sidenote: Caesar subdues various countries.]
[Sidenote: He turns his thoughts to Pompey.]

After this, Caesar spent some time in rigorous campaigns in Italy,
Spain, Sicily, and Gaul, wherever there was manifested any opposition
to his sway. When this work was accomplished, and all these countries
were completely subjected to his dominion, he began to turn his thoughts
to the plan of pursuing Pompey across the Adriatic Sea.


CHAPTER VII.

THE BATTLE OF PHARSALIA.

[Sidenote: The gathering armies.]
[Sidenote: Pompey's preparations.]
[Sidenote: Caesar at Brundusium.]

The gathering of the armies of Caesar and Pompey on the opposite shores
of the Adriatic Sea was one of the grandest preparations for conflict
that history has recorded, and the whole world gazed upon the spectacle
at the time with an intense and eager interest, which was heightened by
the awe and terror which the danger inspired. Henderson, a physician,
at Edinburgh.

In the time of the public troubles, Mr. Drummond, besides composing his
history, wrote several tracts against the measures of the covenanters,
and those engaged in the opposition of Charles I. In a piece of his
called Irene, he harangues the King, nobility, gentry, clergy and
commons, about their mutual mistakes, jealousies and fears; he lays
before them the dismal consequences of a civil war, from indisputable
arguments, and the histories of past times. The great marquis of
Montrose writ a letter to him, desiring him to print this Irene, as the
best means to quiet the minds of the distracted people; he likewise sent
him a protection, dated August, 1645, immediately after the battle of
Kylsyth, with another letter, in which he highly commends Mr. Drummond's
learning and loyalty. Besides this work of Irene, he wrote the
Load Star, and an Address to the Noblemen, Barons, Gentlemen, &c.
who leagued themselves for the defence of the liberties and religion
of Scotland, the whole purport of which is, to calm the disturbed
minds of the populace, to reason the better sort into loyalty, and
to check the growing evils which he saw would be the consequence
of their behaviour.

Those of his own countrymen, for whom he had the greatest esteem,
were Sir William Alexander, afterwards earl of Stirling, Sir Robert
Carr, afterwards earl of Ancram, from whom the present marquis of
Lothian is descended, Dr.

Arthur Johnston, physician to King Charles I. and author of a Latin
Paraphrase of the Psalms, and Mr. John Adamson, principal of the college
of Edinburgh.
He had great intimacy and correspondence with the two famous English
poets, Michael Drayton, and Ben Johnson, the latter of whom travelled
from London on foot, to see him at his seat at Hawthornden. During
the time Ben remained with Mr. Drummond, they often held conversation
about poetry and poets, and Mr. Drummond has preserved the heads of
what passed between them; and as part of it is very curious, and serves
to illustrate the character of Johnson, we have inserted it in his life:
though it perhaps was not altogether fair in Mr. Drummond, to
commit to writing things that passed over a bottle, and which
perhaps were heedlesly advanced.

It is certain some of the particulars which Mr.

Drummond has preferred, are not much in Ben's favour, and as few people
are so wise as not to speak imprudently sometimes, so it is not the
part of a man, who invites another to his table, to expose-what may there
drop inadvertently; but as Mr. Drummond had only made memorandums,
perhaps with no resolution to publish them, he may stand acquitted
of part of this charge. It is reported of our author that he was
very smart, and witty in his repartees, and had a most excellent
talent at extempore versifying, above any poet of his time.
In the year 1645, when the plague was raging in Scotland, our author
came accidentally to Forfar, but was not allowed to enter any house,
or to get lodging in the town, though it was very late; he went two
miles further to Kirrimuir, where he was well received, and kindly
entertained.

Being informed that the towns of Forfar
and Kirrimuir had a contest
about a piece of ground called the Muirmoss, he wrote a letter to
the Provost of Forfar, to be communicated to the town-council in
haste: It was imagined this letter came from the Estates, who were
then sitting at St.

Andrew's; so the Common-Council was called with all expedition, and,
the minister sent for to pray for direction and assistance in answering
the letter, which was opened in a solemn manner. It contained the
following lines,
The Kirrimorians and Forforians met at Muirmoss, The Kirrimorians beat
the Forforians back to the cross, [2]Sutors ye are, and sutors ye'll be
T----y upon Forfar, Kirrimuir bears the gree.

By this innocent piece of mirth he revenged himself on the town of
Forfar. As our author was a great cavalier, and addicted to the King's
party, he was forced by the reformers to send men to the army which
fought against the King, and his estate lying in three different
counties; he had not occasion to send one entire man, but halves, and
quarters, and such like fractions, that is, the money levied upon him
as his share, did not amount to the maintaining one man, but perhaps
half as much, and so on through the several counties, where his estates
lay; upon this he wrote the following verses to the King.

Of all these forces, rais'd against the King, 'Tis my strange hap not one
whole man to bring, From diverse parishes, yet diverse men, But all in
halves, and quarters: great king then, In halves, and quarters, if
they come, 'gainst thee, In halves and quarters send them back to me.

Being reputed a malignant, he was extremely harrassed by the prevailing
party, and for his verses and discourses frequently summoned
before their circular tables. In the short account of his life written
by himself, he says, 'that he never endeavoured to advance his
fortune, or increase such things as were left him by his parents,
as he foresaw the uncertainty and shortness of life, and thought
this world's advantages not worth struggling for.'

The year 1649, remarkable for the
beheading of Charles I. put likewise a period to the life of our
author: Upon hearing the dismal news that his Sovereign's blood was
shed on a scaffold, he was so overwhelmed with grief, and being
worn down with study, he could not overcome the shock, and though
we find not that he ever was in arms for the King, yet he may be
said, in some sense, to have fallen a sacrifice to his loyalty.

He was a man of fine natural endowments, which were cultivated by
reading and travelling; he spoke the Italian, Spanish, and French
languages as well as his mother tongue; he was a judicious and great
historian, a delicate poet, a master of polite erudition, a loyal
subject, a friend to his country, and to sum up all, a pious christian.

Before his works are prefixed several copies of verses in his praise,
with which we shall not trouble the reader, but conclude the life
of this great man, with the following sonnet from his works, as
a specimen of the delicacy of his muse.

I know, that all beneath the moon decays, And what by mortals in this
world is brought, In times great period shall return to nought; That
fairest states have fatal nights and days; I know that all the Muses
heavenly lays, With toil of spirit, which are so dearly bought.
As idle sounds, of few or none are sought, That there is nothing
lighter than vain praise.
I know frail beauty like the purple flower, To which one morn, oft birth,
and death affords, That love a jarring is, of minds accords, Where
sense, and will, bring under reason's power:
Know what I lift, all this cannot me move, But, that alas, I both
must write and love.

[Footnote 1: The reader will please to observe, that I have taken the most
material part, of this account of Mr. Drummond, from a life of him
prefixed to a 4to Edition printed at Edinburgh, 1711.]

[Footnote 2: Shoemakers.]

* * * * *

WILLIAM ALEXANDER, Earl of STIRLING.

It is agreed by the antiquaries of Scotland, where this nobleman was born,
that his family was originally a branch of the Macdonalds.

Alexander Macdonald, their ancestor,
obtained from the family
of Argyle a grant of the lands of Menstry, in Clackmananshire,
where they fixed their residence, and took their sirnames from the
Christian name of their predecessor[1].

Our author was born in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, and during the
minority of James VI. of Scotland, but on what year cannot be ascertained;
he gave early discoveries of a rising genius, and much improved
the fine parts he had from nature, by a very polite and extensive
education. He first travelled abroad as tutor to the earl of Argyle,
and was a considerable time with that nobleman, while they visited foreign
countries. After his return, being happy in so great a patron as the
earl of Argyle, and finished in all the courtly accomplishments, he was
caressed by persons of the first fashion, while he yet moved in the
sphere of a private gentleman.

Mr. Alexander having a strong propensity to poetry, he declined entering
upon any public employment for some years, and dedicated all his time
to the reading of the ancient poets, upon which he formed his taste, and
whose various graces he seems to have understood. King James of Scotland,
who with but few regal qualities, yet certainly had a propension to
literature, and was an encourager of learned men, took Mr. Alexander
early into his favour. He accepted the poems our author presented him,
with the most condescending marks of esteem, and was so warm in his
interest, that in the year 1614, he created him a knight, and by
a kind of compulsion, obliged him to accept the place of Master of the
Requests[2]; but the King's bounty did not stop here: Our author having
settled a colony in Nova Scotia in America, at his own expence,
James made him a grant of it, by his Royal Deed, on the 21st of
September, 1621, and intended to have erected the order of Baronet,
for encouraging and advancing so good a work; but the three last
years of that prince's reign being rendered troublesome to him, by
reason of the jealousies and commotions which then subsisted in
England, he thought fit to suspend the further prosecution of that
affair, 'till a more favourable crisis, which he lived not to see.

As soon as King Charles I.
ascended the throne, who inherited from his father the warmest
affection for his native country, he endeavoured to promote that
design, which was likely to produce so great a benefit to the nation,
and therefore created Sir William Alexander Lord Lieutenant of New
Scotland, and instituted the order of Knight Baronet, for the
encouraging, and advancing that colony, and gave him the power of
coining small copper money, a privilege which some discontented
British subjects complained of with great bitterness; but his
Majesty, who had the highest opinion of the integrity and abilities
of Sir William, did not on that account withdraw his favour from
him, but rather encreased it; for in the year 1626 he made him
Secretary of State for Scotch affairs, in place of the earl of
Haddington, and a Peer, by the title of Viscount Stirling, and soon
after raised him to the dignity of an Earl, by Letters Patent, dated
June 14, 1633, upon the solemnity of his Majesty's Coronation at
the Palace of Holy-rood-house in Edinburgh.

His lordship enjoyed the place of secretary with the most unblemished
reputation, for the space of fifteen years, even to his death, which
happened on the 12th of February, 1640.

Our author married the daughter of Sir William Erskine, Baronet, cousin
german to the earl of Marr, then Regent of Scotland; by her he had one
son, who died his Majesty's Resident in Nova Scotia in the life time
of his father, and left behind him a son who succeeded his grandfather
in the title of earl of Stirling.

His lordship is author of four plays, which he stiles Monarchic Tragedies,
viz. The Alexandræan Tragedy, Cræsus, Darius, and Julius Cæsar, all which
in the opinion of the ingenious Mr. Coxeter (whose indefatigable
industry in collecting materials for this work, which he lived not
to publish, has furnished the present Biographers with
many circumstances they could not otherwise have known) were written
in his lordship's youth, and before he undertook any state
employment.

These plays are written upon the
model of the ancients, as appears by his introducing the Chorus
between the Acts; they are grave and sententious throughout, like
the Tragedies of Seneca, and yet the softer and tender passions are
sometimes very delicately touched.

The author has been very unhappy in the choice of his verse, which
is alternate, like the quatrains of the French poet Pibrach, or Sir
William Davenant's heroic poem called Gondibert, which kind of verse
is certainly unnatural for Tragedy, as it is so much removed
from prose, and cannot have that beautiful simplicity, that tender pathos,
which is indispensable to the language of tragedy; Mr. Rymer has
criticised with great judgment on this error of our author, and shewn
the extreme absurdity of writing plays in rhime, notwithstanding the
great authority of Dryden can be urged in its defence.

Writing plays upon the model of the ancients, by introducing choruses,
can be defended with as little force. It is the nature of a tragedy to
warm the heart, rouze the passions, and fire the imagination, which can
never be done, while the story goes languidly on.

The soul cannot be agitated unless the business of the play
rises gradually, the scene be kept busy, and leading characters
active: we cannot better illustrate this observation, than by an
example.

One of the best poets of the present age, the ingenious Mr. Mason of
Cambridge, has not long ago published a Tragedy upon the model of the
ancients, called Elfrida; the merit of this piece, as a poem has been
confessed by the general reading it has obtained; it is full of
beauties; the language is perfectly poetical, the sentiments chaste,
and the moral excellent; there is nothing in our tongue can much
exceed it in the flowry enchantments of poetry, or the delicate flow of
numbers, but while we admire the poet, we pay no regard to the character;
no passion is excited, the heart is never moved, nor is the reader's
curiosity ever raised to know the event. Want of passion and regard to
character, is the error of our present dramatic poets, and it is a true
observation made by a gentleman in an occasional prologue, speaking
of the wits from Charles II. to our own times, he says,
From bard, to bard, the frigid caution crept, And declamation roared while
passion slept.

But to return to our author's plays;
The Alexandræan Tragedy is built upon the differences about the
succession, that rose between Alexander's captains after his decease;
he has borrowed many thoughts, and translated whole speeches from
Seneca, Virgil, &c. In this play his lordship seems to mistake
the very essence of the drama, which consists in action, for there is
scarce one action performed in view of the audience, but several
persons are introduced upon the stage, who relate atchievements
done by themselves and others: the two first acts are entirely
foreign to the business of the play.

Upon the whole it must be allowed that his lordship was a very good
historian, for the reader may learn from it a great deal of the
affairs of Greece and Rome; for the plot see Quintus Curtius, the
thirteenth Book of Justin, Diodorus Siculus, Jofephus, Raleigh's
History, &c.

The Scene is in Babylon.

Cræsus, a Tragedy; the Scene of this Play is laid in Sardis, and is
reckoned the most moving of the four; it is chiefly borrowed from
Herodotus, Clio, Justin, Plutarch's Life of Solon, Salian, Torniel.
In the fifth Act there is an Episode of Abradates and Panthæa,
which the author has taken from Xenophon's Cyropædeia, or The Life and
Education of Cyrus, lib. vii. The ingenious Scudery has likewise built
upon this foundation, in his diverting Romance called the Grand
Cyrus.

Darius, a Tragedy; this was his lordship's first dramatic performance;
it was printed at Edinburgh in 4to. in the year 1603; it was first
composed of a mixture of English and Scotch dialect, and even then
was commended by several copies of verses.

The Scene of this Play is laid in
Babylon. The author afterwards not
only polished his native language, but
altered the Play itself; as to the plot consult Q.

Curtius, Diodorus Siculus, Justin, Plutarch's Life of Alexander, &c.
Julius Cæsar, a Tragedy. In the fifth Act of this Play, my lord brings
Brutus, Cassius, Cicero, Anthony, &c. together, after the death of Cæsar,
almost in the same circumstances Shakespear has done in his Play of this
name; but the difference between the Anthony and Brutus of Shakespear,
and these characters drawn by the earl of Stirling, is as great, as the
genius of the former transcended the latter. This is the most regular
of his lordship's plays in the unity of action. The story of
this Play is to be found in all the Roman Histories written since
the death of that Emperor.

His lordship has acknowledged the stile of his dramatic works not to
be pure, for which in excuse he has pleaded his country, the Scotch dialect
then being in a very imperfect state. Having mentioned the Scotch dialect,
it will not be improper to observe, that it is at this time much in
the same degree of perfection, that the English language was, in
the reigns of Henry VIII. and Queen Elizabeth; there are idioms peculiar
to the Scotch, which some of their best writers have not
been able entirely to forget, and unless they reside in England
for some time, they seldom overcome them, and their language is greatly
obscured by these means; but the reputation which some Scotch writers
at present enjoy, make it sufficiently clear, that they are not much
wanting in perspicuity or elegance, of which Mr.

Hume, the ingenious author of Essays Moral
and Political, is an instance.

In the particular quality of fire, which is indispensible in a good writer,
the Scotch authors have rather too much of it, and are more apt to be
extravagantly animated, than correctly dull.

Besides these Plays, our author wrote several other Poems of a different
kind, viz. Doomsday, or the Great Day of the Lord's Judgment, first
printed 1614, and a Poem divided into 12 Book, which the author calls
Hours; In this Poem is the following emphatic line, when speaking of the
divine vengeance falling upon the wicked; he calls it
A weight of wrath, more than ten worlds could bear.

A very ingenious gentleman of Oxford, in a conversation with the author
of this Life, took occasion to mention the above line as the best he had
ever read consisting of monysyllables, and is indeed one of the
most affecting lines to be met with in any poet.

This Poem, says Mr.

Coxeter, 'in his MS. notes, was reprinted in 1720, by A. Johnston, who
in his preface says, that he had the honour of transmitting the author's
works to the great Mr. Addison, for the perusal of them, and he was
pleased to signify his approbation in these candid terms. That he had
read them with the greatest satisfaction, and was pleased to give it as
his judgment, that the beauties of our ancient English poets are too
slightly passed over by the modern writers, who, out of a peculiar
singularity, had rather take pains to find fault, than endeavour to
excel.'

A Parænæsis to Prince Henry, who dying before it was published, it
was afterwards dedicated to King Charles I.[3]
Jonathan; intended to be an Heroic Poem, but the first Book of it is only
extant. He wrote all these Poems in the Ottavo Rima of Tasso, or a
Stanza of eight lines, six interwoven, and a Couplet in Base.

His Plays and Poems were all printed
together in folio, under the
title of Recreations with the Muses, 1637, and dedicated to the
King.

The earl of Stirling lived in friendship with the most eminent wits of
his time, except Ben Johnson, who complained that he was neglected by
him; but there are no particulars preserved concerning any quarrel
between them.

My lord seems to have often a peculiar inclination to punning, but this
was the characteristic vice of the times. That he could sometimes
write in a very elegant strain will appear by the following lines, in
which he describes love.

Love is a joy, which upon pain depends; A drop of sweet, drowned in a sea
of sours:
What folly does begin, that fury ends; They hate for ever, who
have lov'd for hours.

[Footnote 1: Crawford's Peerage of Scotland.]
[Footnote 2: Crawford, ubi supra.]
[Footnote 3: Langbaire.]
* * * * *

JOSEPH HALL, Bishop of NORWICH.

This prelate was born, according to his own account, July 11, 1574,
in Bristow-Park, within the parish of Ashby de la Zouch, a town in
Leicestershire.[1] His father was an officer under Henry Earl of
Huntingdon, president of the North, who from his infancy had devoted
him to the service of the church; and his mother, whom he has
celebrated for her exemplary and distinguished piety, was extremely
sollicitous that her favourite son would be of a profession, she
herself held so much in veneration.

Our author, who seems to have been very credulous in his disposition,
rather religious than wise, or possessing any attainments equal to
the dignity to which he rose, has preserved in his Specialities, some
visions of his mother's, which he relates with an air of seriousness,
sufficient to evidence his own conviction of their reality; but
as they appear to have been the offspring of a disordered imagination,
they have no right to a place here.

In order to train him up to the ministry, his father at first
resolved to place him under the care of one Mr. Pelset, lately come from
Cambridge to be the public preacher at Leicester, who undertook to give
him an education equally finished with that of the university, and
by these means save much expence to his father: This resolution,
however, was not executed, some other friends advising his father
to send him to Cambridge, and persuaded him that no private tuition could
possibly be equal to that of the academical.

When our author had remained six years at Cambridge, he had a right
to preferment, and to stand for a fellowship, had not his tutor Mr.

Gilby been born in the same county with him, and the statutes not
permitting two of the same shire to enjoy fellowships, and as Mr.

Gilby was senior to our author, and
already in possession, Mr.

Hall could not be promoted.
In consequence of this, he proposed to remove, when the Earl of Huntingdon,
being made acquainted with this circumstance, and hearing very favourable
accounts of our author, interested himself to prevent his removal. He
made application to Mr. Gilby, promised to make him his chaplain,
and promote him in the church, provided he would relinquish his place in
the college, in favour of Mr. Hall. These promises being made with
seeming sincerity, and as the Earl of Huntingdon was a man of reputation
for probity, he complied with his lordship's request, and relinquished
his place in the college.
Thessaly is a
vast amphitheater, surrounded by mountains, from whose sides streams
descend, which, after watering many fertile valleys and plains, combine
to form one great central river that flows to the eastward, and after
various meanderings, finds its way into the Aegean Sea through a
romantic gap between two mountains, called the Vale of Tempe--a vale
which has been famed in all ages for the extreme picturesqueness of its
scenery, and in which, in those days, all the charms both of the most
alluring beauty and of the sublimest grandeur seemed to be combined.
Pompey followed the roads leading along the banks of this stream, weary
in body, and harassed and disconsolate in mind. The news which came to
him from time to time, by the flying parties which were moving through
the country in all directions, of the entire and overwhelming
completeness of Caesar's victory, extinguished all remains of hope, and
narrowed down at last the grounds of his solicitude to the single point
of his own personal safety. He was well aware that he should be pursued,
and, to baffle the efforts which he knew that his enemies would make to
follow his track, he avoided large towns, and pressed forward in by-ways
and solitudes, bearing as patiently as he was able his increasing
destitution and distress. He reached, at length, the Vale of Tempe, and
there, exhausted with hunger, thirst, and fatigue, he sat down upon the
bank of the stream to recover by a little rest strength enough for the
remainder of his weary way. He wished for a drink, but he had nothing to
drink from. And so the mighty potentate, whose tent was full of
delicious beverages, and cups and goblets of silver and gold, extended
himself down upon the sand at the margin of the river, and drank the
warm water directly from the stream.

[Sidenote: Caesar in Pompey's camp.]

While Pompey was thus anxiously and toilsomely endeavoring to gain the
sea-shore, Caesar was completing his victory over the army which he had
left behind him. When Caesar had carried the intrenchments of the camp,
and the army found that there was no longer any safety for them there,
they continued their retreat under the guidance of such generals as
remained. Caesar thus gained undisputed possession of the camp. He found
every where the marks of wealth and luxury, and indications of the
confident expectation of victory which the discomfited army had
entertained. The tents of the generals were crowned with myrtle, the
beds were strewed with flowers, and tables every where were spread for
feasts, with cups and bowls of wine all ready for the expected revelers.
Caesar took possession of the whole, stationed a proper guard to protect
the property, and then pressed forward with his army in pursuit of
the enemy.

[Sidenote: Retreat of Pompey's army.]
[Sidenote: Surrender of Pompey's army.]

Pompey's army made their way to a neighboring rising ground, where they
threw up hasty intrenchments to protect themselves for the night. A
rivulet ran near the hill, the access to which they endeavored to
secure, in order to obtain supplies of water. Caesar and his forces
followed them to this spot. The day was gone, and it was too late to
attack them. Caesar's soldiers, too, were exhausted with the intense and
protracted excitement and exertions which had now been kept up for many
hours in the battle and in the pursuit, and they needed repose. They
made, however, one effort more. They seized the avenue of approach to
the rivulet, and threw up a temporary intrenchment to secure it which
intrenchment they protected with a guard; and then the army retired to
rest, leaving their helpless victims to while away the hours of the
night, tormented with thirst, and overwhelmed with anxiety and despair.
This could not long be endured. They surrendered in the morning, and
Caesar found himself in possession of over twenty thousand prisoners.

[Sidenote: Pompey in the Vale of Tempe.]

In the mean time, Pompey passed on through the Vale of Tempe toward the
sea, regardless of the beauty and splendor that surrounded him, and
thinking only of his fallen fortunes, and revolving despairingly in his
mind the various forms in which the final consummation of his ruin might
ultimately come. At length he reached the sea-shore, and found refuge
for the night in a fisherman's cabin. A small number of attendants
remained with him, some of whom were slaves. These he now dismissed,
directing them to return and surrender themselves to Caesar, saying that
he was a generous foe, and that they had nothing to fear from him. His
other attendants he retained, and he made arrangements for a boat to
take him the next day along the coast. It was a river boat, and
unsuited to the open sea, but it was all that he could obtain.

[Sidenote: Pompey embarks on board a vessel.]
[Sidenote: The shipmaster's dream.]

He arose the next morning at break of day, and embarked in the little
vessel, with two or three attendants, and the oarsmen began to row away
along the shore. They soon came in sight of a merchant ship just ready
to sail. The master of this vessel, it happened, had seen Pompey, and
knew his countenance, and he had dreamed, as a famous historian of the
times relates, on the night before, that Pompey had come to him hi the
guise of a simple soldier and in great distress, and that he had
received and rescued him. There was nothing extraordinary in such a
dream at such a time, as the contest between Caesar and Pompey, and the
approach of the final collision which was to destroy one or the other of
them, filled the minds and occupied the conversation of the world. The
shipmaster, therefore, having seen and known one of the great rivals in
the approaching conflict, would naturally find both his waking and
sleeping thoughts dwelling on the subject; and his fancy, in his dreams,
might easily picture the scene of his rescuing and saving the fallen
hero in the hour of his distress.

[Sidenote: Pompey goes on board a merchant ship.]

However this may be, the shipmaster is said to have been relating his
dream to the seamen on the deck of his vessel when the boat which was
conveying Pompey came into view. Pompey himself, having escaped from the
land, supposed all immediate danger over, not imagining that seafaring
men would recognize him in such a situation and in such a disguise. The
shipmaster did, however, recognize him. He was overwhelmed with grief at
seeing him in such a condition. With a countenance and with gestures
expressive of earnest surprise and sorrow, he beckoned to Pompey to come
on board. He ordered his own ship's boat to be immediately let down to
meet and receive him. Pompey came on board. The ship was given up to his
possession, and every possible arrangement was made to supply his wants,
to contribute to his comfort, and to do him honor.

[Sidenote: His arrival at Amphipolis.]

The vessel conveyed him to Amphipolis, a city of Macedonia near the sea,
and to the northward and eastward of the place where he had embarked.
When Pompey arrived at the port he sent proclamations to the shore,
calling upon the inhabitants to take arms and join his standard. He did
not, however, land, or take any other measures for carrying these
arrangements into effect. He only waited in the river upon which
Amphipolis stands long enough to receive a supply of money from some of
his friends on the shore, and stores for his voyage, and then get sail
again. Whether he learned that Caesar was advancing in that direction
with a force too strong for him to encounter, or found that the people
were disinclined to espouse his cause, or whether the whole movement was
a feint to direct Caesar's attention to Macedon as the field of his
operations, in order that he might escape more secretly and safely
beyond the sea, can not now be ascertained.

[Sidenote: Pompey's wife Cornelia.]
[Sidenote: Her beauty and accomplishments.]

Pompey's wife Cornelia was on the island of Lesbos, at Mitylene, near
the western coast of Asia Minor. She was a lady of distinguished beauty,
and of great intellectual superiority and moral worth. She was extremely
well versed in all the learning of the times, and yet was entirely free
from those peculiarities and airs which, as her historian says, were
often observed in learned ladies in those days. Pompey had married her
after the death of Julia, Caesar's daughter. They were strongly devoted
to each other. Pompey had provided for her a beautiful retreat on the
island of Lesbos, where she was living in elegance and splendor,
beloved for her own intrinsic charms, and highly honored on account of
the greatness and fame of her husband. Here she had received from time
to time glowing accounts of his success all exaggerated as they came to
her, through the eager desire of the narrators to give her pleasure.

[Sidenote: Pompey's arrival at Mitylene.]
[Sidenote: His meeting with Cornelia.]

From this high elevation of honor and happiness the ill-fated Cornelia
suddenly fell, on the arrival of Pompey's solitary vessel at Mitylene,
bringing as it did, at the same time, both the first intelligence of her
husband's fall, and himself in person, a ruined and homeless fugitive
and wanderer. The meeting was sad and sorrowful. Cornelia was
overwhelmed at the suddenness and violence of the shock which it brought
her, and Pompey lamented anew the dreadful disaster that he had
sustained, at finding how inevitably it must involve his beloved wife as
well as himself in its irreparable ruin.

[Sidenote: Pompey gathers a little fleet.]

The pain, however, was not wholly without some mingling of pleasure. A
husband finds a strange sense of protection and safety in the presence
and sympathy of an affectionate wife in the hour of his calamity. She
can, perhaps do nothing, but her mute and sorrowful concern and pity
comfort and reassure him. Cornelia, however, was able to render her
husband some essential aid. She resolved immediately to accompany him
wherever he should go; and, by their joint endeavors, a little fleet was
gathered, and such supplies as could be hastily obtained, and such
attendants and followers as were willing to share his fate, were taken
on board. During all this time Pompey would not go on shore himself, but
remained on board, his ship in the harbor. Perhaps he was afraid of some
treachery or surprise, or perhaps, in his fallen and hopeless condition,
he was unwilling to expose himself to the gaze of those who had so often
seen him in all the splendor of his former power.

[Sidenote: He sails along the Mediterranean.]
[Sidenote: Pompey receives additional supplies.]

At length, when all was ready, he sailed away. He passed eastward along
the Mediterranean, touching at such ports as he supposed most likely to
favor his cause. Vague and uncertain, but still alarming rumors that
Caesar was advancing in pursuit of him met him every where, and the
people of the various provinces were taking sides, some in his favor and
some against him, the excitement being every where so great that the
utmost caution and circumspection were required in all his movements.
Sometimes he was refused permission to land; at others, his friends
were too few to afford him protection; and at others still, though the
authorities professed friendship, he did not dare to trust them. He
obtained, however, some supplies of money and some accessions to the
number of ships and men under his command, until at length he had quite
a little fleet in his train. Several men of rank and influence, who had
served under him in the days of his prosperity, nobly adhered to him
now, and formed a sort of court or council on board his galley, where
they held with their great though fallen commander frequent
conversations on the plan which it was best to pursue.

[Sidenote: He seeks refuge in Egypt.]
[Sidenote: Ptolemy and Cleopatra.]

It was finally decided that it was best to seek refuge in Egypt. There
seemed to be, in fact, no alternative. All the rest of the world was
evidently going over to Caesar. Pompey had been the means, some years
before, of restoring a certain king of Egypt to his throne, and many of
his soldiers had been left in the country, and remained there still. It
is true that the king himself had died. He had left a daughter named
Cleopatra, and also a son, who was at this time very young. The name of
this youthful prince was Ptolemy. Ptolemy and Cleopatra bad been made by
their father joint heirs to the throne. But Ptolemy, or, rather, the
ministers and counselors who acted for him and in his name, had expelled
Cleopatra, that they might govern alone. Cleopatra had raised an army in
Syria, and was on her way to the frontiers of Egypt to regain possession
of what she deemed her rights. Ptolemy's ministers had gone forth to
meet her at the head of their own troops, 'Ptolemy himself being also
with them. They had reached Pelusium, which is the frontier town between
Egypt and Syria on the coast of the Mediterranean. Here their armies had
assembled in vast encampments upon the land, and their galleys and
transports were riding at anchor along the shore of the sea. Helen's, in
the second year of Richard II. might have been his sister, or of his
kindred. But this conjecture, says Urry,[1] seems very improbable;
for this Richard was a vintner, living at the corner of Kirton-lane, and
at his death left his house, tavern, and stock to the church of St.

Mary Aldermary, which in all probability he would not have done if
he had had any sons to possess his fortune; nor is it very likely
he could enjoy the family estates mentioned by Leland in Oxfordshire,
and at the same time follow such an occupation.

Pitts asserts, that his father was a knight; but tho' there is no
authority to support this assertion, yet it is reasonable to
suppose that he was something superior to a common employ. We find one
John Chaucer attending upon Edward III. and Queen Philippa, in their
expedition to Flanders and Cologn, who had the King's protection to go
over sea in the twelfth year of his reign.

It is highly probable that this gentleman was father to our Geoffry,
and the supposition is strengthened by Chaucer's first application,
after leaving the university and inns of law, being to the Court;
nor is it unlikely that the service of the father should recommend
the son.

It is universally agreed, that he was born in the second year of the
reign of King Edward III. A.D. 1328. His first studies were in the
university of Cambridge, and when about eighteen years of age he wrote
his Court of Love, but of what college he was is uncertain, there
being no account of him in the records of the University. From Cambridge
he was removed to Oxford in order to compleat his studies, and after
a considerable stay there, and a strict application to the public lectures
of the university, he became (says Leland) "a ready logician, a smooth
rhetorician, a pleasant poet, a great philosopher, an ingenious
mathematician, and a holy divine.

That he was a great master in astronomy, is plain by his discourses
of the Astrolabe.

That he was versed in hermetic philosophy (which prevailed much at that
time), appears by his Tale of the Chanons Yeoman: His knowledge in divinity
is evident from his Parson's Tale, and his philosophy from the Testament
of Love." Thus qualified to make a figure in the world, he left his
learned retirement, and travelled into France, Holland, and other
countries, where he spent some of his younger days.

Upon his return he entered himself in the
Inner Temple, where he studied the
municipal laws of the land. But he had
not long prosecuted that dry study, till his superior abilities
were taken notice of by some persons of distinction, by whole
patronage he then approached the splendor of the court.

The reign of Edward III. was glorious and successful, he was a discerning
as well as a fortunate Monarch; he had a taste as well for erudition as
for arms; he was an encourager of men of wit and parts, and permitted
them to approach him, without reserve.
At Edward's court nothing but gallantry and a round of pleasure
prevailed, and how well qualified our poet was to shine in the soft
circles, whoever has read his works, will be at no loss to determine;
but besides the advantages of his wit and learning, he possessed those
of person in a very considerable degree. He was then about the age
of thirty, of a fair beautiful complexion, his lips red and full, his
size of a just medium, and his air polished and graceful, so that he
united whatever could claim the approbation of the Great, and charm the
eyes of the Fair. He had abilities to record the valour of the one,
and celebrate the beauty of the other, and being qualified by his
genteel behaviour to entertain both, he became a finished courtier.
The first dignity to which we find him preferred, was that of page to the
king, a place of so much honour and esteem at that time, that Richard
II. leaves particular legacies to his pages, when few others of his
servants are taken notice of. In the forty-first year of Edward III.
he received as a reward of his services, an annuity of twenty marks
per ann. payable out of the Exchequer, which in those days was no
inconsiderable pension; in a year after he was advanced to be of his
Majesty's privy chamber, and a very few months to be his shield
bearer, a title, at that time, (tho' now extinct) of very great honour,
being always next the king's person, and generally upon signal victories
rewarded with military honours. Our poet being thus eminent by his places,
contracted friendships, and procured the esteem of persons of the first
quality. Queen Philippa, the Duke of Lancaster, and his Duchess Blanch,
shewed particular honour to him, and lady Margaret the king's daughter,
and the countess of Pembroke gave him their warmest patronage
as a poet. In his poems called the Romaunt, and the Rose, and Troilus
and Creseide, he gave offence to some court ladies by the looseness of
his description, which the lady Margaret resented, and obliged him
to atone for it, by his Legend of good Women, a piece as chaste
as the others were luxuriously amorous, and, under the name of the
Daisy, he veils lady Margaret, whom of all his patrons he most
esteemed.

Thus loved and honoured, his younger years were dedicated to pleasure
and the court. By the recommendation of the Dutchess Blanch, he married
one Philippa Rouet, sister to the guardianess of her grace's children,
who was a native of Hainault: He was then about thirty years of age, and
being fixed by marriage, the king began to employ him in more public
and advantageous posts. In the forty-sixth year of his majesty's
reign, Chaucer was sent to Venice in commission with others, to treat
with the Doge and Senate of Genoa, about affairs of great importance
to our state.

The duke of Lancaster, whose favourite
passion was ambition, which demanded the assistance of learned
men, engaged warmly in our poet's interest; besides, the duke was
remarkably fond of Lady Catherine Swynford, his wife's sister, who
was then guardianess to his children, and whom he afterwards made
his wife; thus was he doubly attached to Chaucer, and with the
varying fortune of the duke of Lancaster we find him rise or fall.

Much about this time, for his successful negociations at Genoa, the king
granted to him by letters patent, by the title of Armiger Noster, one
pitcher of wine daily in the port of London, and soon after made him
comptroller of the customs, with this particular proviso, that he
should personally execute the office, and write the accounts
relating to it with his own hand. But as he was advanced to higher
places of trust, so he became more entangled in the affairs of
state, the consequence of which proved very prejudicial to him. The
duke of Lancaster having been the chief instrument of raising him
to dignity, expected the fruits of those favours in a ready
compliance with him in all his designs.

That prince was certainly
one of the proudest and most ambitious men of his time, nor could
he patiently bear the name of a subject even to his father; nothing
but absolute power, and the title of king could satisfy him; upon
the death of his elder brother, Edward the black prince, he fixed
an eye upon the English crown, and seemed to stretch out an impatient
hand to reach it.

In this view he sought, by all means possible, to secure his interest
against the decease of the old king; and being afraid of the opposition
of the clergy, who are always strenuous against an irregular succession,
he embraced the opinions and espoused the interests of Wickliff,
who now appeared at Oxford, and being a man of very great abilities, and
much esteemed at court, drew over to his party great numbers, as
well fashionable as low people. In this confusion, the duke of
Lancaster endeavoured all he could to shake the power of the clergy,
and to procure votaries amongst the leading popular men. Chaucer had
no small hand in promoting these proceedings, both by his public interest
and writings. Towards the close of Edward's reign, he was very active
in the intrigues of the court party, and so recommended himself to the
Prince successor, that upon his ascending the throne, he confirmed to
him by the title of Dilectus Armiger Noster, the grant made by the late
king of twenty marks per annum, and at the same time confirmed the other
grant of the late King for a pitcher of wine to be delivered him daily
in the port of London.

In less than two years after this, we find our poet so reduced in
his cirumstances, (but by what means is unknown) that the King in
order to screen him from his creditors, took him under his protection,
and allowed him still to enjoy his former grants.

The duke of Lancaster, whose restless ambition ever excited him to disturb
the state, engaged now with, all the interest of which he was master
to promote himself to the crown; the opinions of Wickliff gained ground,
and so great a commotion now prevailed amongst the clergy, that the
king perceiving the state in danger, and being willing to support the
clerical interest, suffered the archbishop of Canterbury to summon
Wickliff to appear before him, whose interest after this arraignment
very much decayed.[2] The king who was devoted to his pleasures, resigned
himself, to some young courtiers who hated the duke of Lancaster, and
caused a fryar to accuse him of an attempt to kill the king; but before
he had an opportunity of making out the charge against him, the fryar
was murdered in a cruel and barbarous manner by lord John Holland, to
whose care he had been committed.

This lord John Holland,
called lord Huntingdon, and
duke of Exeter, was half brother to the King, and had married
Elizabeth, daughter of the duke of Lancaster.

He was a great patron of Chaucer, and much respected by him. With the duke
of Lancaster's interest Chaucer's also sunk. His patron being unable to
support him, he could no longer struggle against opposite parties,
or maintain his posts of honour.
The duke passing over sea, his friends felt all the malice of an enraged
court; which induced them to call in a number of the populace to assist
them, of which our poet was a zealous promoter. One John of Northampton,
a late lord mayor of London was at the head of these disturbances; which
did not long continue; for upon beheading one of the rioters, and
Northampton's being taken into custody, the commotion subsided. Strict
search was made after Chaucer, who escaped into Hainault; afterwards
he went to France, and finding the king resolute to get him into his
hands, he fled from thence to Zealand. Several accomplices in this
affair were with him, whom he supported in their exile, while the
chief ringleaders, (except Northampton who was condemned at Reading upon
the evidence of his clerk) had restored themselves to court favour
by acknowledging their crime, and now forgot the integrity and resolution
of Chaucer, who suffered exile to secure their secrets; and so monstrously
ungrateful were they, that they wished his death, and by keeping
supplies of money from him, endeavoured to effect it;--While he
expended his fortune in removing from place to place, and in
supporting his fellow exiles, so far from receiving any assistance
from England, his apartments were let, and the money received for
rent was never acccounted for to him; nor could he recover any from
those who owed it him, they being of opinion it was impossible for
him ever to return to his own country.

The government still pursuing their resentment against him and his
friends, they were obliged to leave Zealand, and Chaucer being
unable to bear longer the calamities of poverty and exile, and
finding no security wherever he fled, chose rather to throw himself
upon the laws of his country, than perish abroad by hunger and
oppression.

He had not long returned till he was arrested by order of the king,
and confined in the tower of London.

The court sometimes flattered him with the return of the royal
favour if he would impeach his accomplices, and sometimes threatened
him with immediate destruction; their threats and promises he along
while disregarded, but recollecting the ingratitude of his old
friends, and the miseries he had already suffered, he at last made
a confession, and according to the custom of trials at that time,
offered to prove the truth of it by combat.

What the consequence of this discovery was to his accomplices, is
uncertain, it no doubt exposed him to their resentment, and procured
him the name of a traytor; but the king, who regarded him as one
beloved by his grandfather, was pleased to pardon him.

Thus fallen from a heighth of greatness, our poet retired to bemoan the
fickleness of fortune, and then wrote his Testament of Love, in which
are many pathetic exclamations concerning the vicissitude of human
things, which he then bitterly experienced. But as he had formerly
been the favourite of fortune, when dignities were multiplied thick upon
him, so his miseries now succeeded with an equal swiftness; he was not
only discarded by his majesty, unpensioned, and abandoned, but he
lost the favour of the duke of Lancaster, as the influence of his
wife's sister with that prince was now much lessened.

The duke being dejected
with the troubles in which he was involved, began to reflect on
his vicious course of life, and particularly his keeping that lady
as his concubine; which produced a resolution of putting her out
of his house, and he made a vow to that purpose.

Chaucer, thus reduced, and weary of the perpetual turmoils at court, retired
to Woodstock, to enjoy a studious quiet; where he wrote his
excellent treatise of the Astrolabe; but notwithstanding the severe
treatment of the government, he still retained his loyalty, and
strictly enjoined his son to pray for the king. As the pious resolutions
of some people are often the consequence of a present evil, so at
the return of prosperity they are soon dissipated. This proved the
case with the duke of Lancaster: his party again gathered strength,
his interest began to rise; upon which he took again his mistress
to his bosom, and not content with heaping favours, honours, and
titles upon her, he made her his wife, procured an act of parliament
to legitimate her children, which gave great offence to the duchess
of Gloucester, the countess of Derby, and Arundel, as she then was
entitled to take place of them.

With her interest, Chaucer's also returned, and after a long and
bitter storm, the sun began to shine upon him with an evening ray;
for at the sixty-fifth year of his age, the king granted to him,
by the title of Delectus Armiger Noster, an annuity of twenty marks
per annum during his life, as a compensation for the former pension
his needy circumstances obliged him to part with; but however
sufficient that might be for present support, yet as he was encumbered
with debts, he durst not appear publickly till his majesty again
granted him his royal protection to screen him from the persecution
of his creditors; he also restored to him his grant of a pitcher
of wine daily, and a pipe annually, to be delivered to him by his
son Thomas, who that year possessed the office of chief butler to
the king.

Now that I have mentioned his son, it will not be improper, to take a
view of our author's domestical affairs, at least as far as we are
enabled, by materials that have descended to our times.

Thomas his eldest son, was married to one of the greatest fortunes in
England, Maud, daughter and heir of Sir John Burgheershe, knight of
the garter, and Dr. Henry Burghurshe bishop of Lincoln, chancellor and
treasurer of England. Mr. Speight says this lady was given him in
marriage by Edward III. in return of his services performed in his
embassies in France. His second son Lewis was born in 1381, for
when his father wrote the treatise of the Astrolabe, he was ten years
old; he was then a student in Merton college in Oxford, and pupil to
Nicholas Strade, but there is no further account of him. Thomas who now
enjoyed the office of chief butler to his majesty, had the same place
confirmed to him for life, by letters patent to king Henry IV, and
continued by Henry VI.

In the 2d year of Henry IV, we find
him Speaker of the House of Commons, Sheriff of Oxfordshire and
Berkshire, and Constable of Wallingford castle and Knaresborough
castle during life.

In the 6th year of the same prince, he was sent ambassador to France.
In the 9th of the same reign the Commons presented him their Speaker;
as they did likewise in the 11th year. Soon after this Queen Jane, granted
to him for his good service, the manor of Woodstock, Hannerborough and
Wotten during life; and in the 13th year, he was again presented Speaker
as he was in the 2d of Henry V, and much about that time he was sent
by the king, to treat of a marriage with Catherine daughter to the
duke of Burgundy; he was sent again ambassador to France, and passed
thro' a great many public stations.
Mr. Stebbing says that he was knighted, but we find no such title given
him in any record. He died at Ewelm, the chief place of his residence,
in the year 1434. By his wife Maud he had one daughter named Alice, who
was thrice married, first to Sir John Philips, and afterwards to Thomas
Montacute earl of Salisbury: her third husband was the famous William
de la Pole, duke of Suffolk, who lost his head by the fury of the
Yorkists, who dreaded his influence in the opposite party, tho' he stood
proscribed by the parliament of Henry VI. for misguiding that easy
prince.
Although no history of its origin has come
down to us, a tradition has descended that Caesar built it during his
residence in Egypt, to commemorate the name of Pompey; but whether it
was his own victory over Pompey, or Pompey's own character and military
fame which the structure was intended to signalize to mankind, can not
now be known. There is even some doubt whether it was erected by
Caesar at all.

[Sidenote: Surrender of Pompey's officers.]
[Sidenote: Caesar's generosity.]

While Caesar was in Alexandria, many of Pompey's officers, now that
their master was dead, and there was no longer any possibility of their
rallying again under his guidance and command, came in and surrendered
themselves to him. He received them with great kindness, and, instead of
visiting them with any penalties for having fought against him, he
honored the fidelity and bravery they had evinced in the service of
their own former master. Caesar had, in fact, shown the same generosity
to the soldiers of Pompey's army that he had taken prisoners at the
battle of Pharsalia. At the close of the battle, he issued orders that
each one of his soldiers should have permission to _save_ one of the
enemy. Nothing could more strikingly exemplify both the generosity and
the tact that marked the great conqueror's character than this incident.
The hatred and revenge which had animated his victorious soldiery in the
battle and in the pursuit, were changed immediately by the permission to
compassion and good will. The ferocious soldiers turned at once from the
pleasure of hunting their discomfited enemies to death, to that of
protecting and defending them; and the way was prepared for their being
received into his service, and incorporated with the rest of his army as
friends and brothers.

[Sidenote: His position at Alexandria.]
[Sidenote: Caesar's interference in Egyptian affairs.]

Caesar soon found himself in so strong a position at Alexandria, that he
determined to exercise his authority as Roman consul to settle the
dispute in respect to the succession of the Egyptian crown. There was no
difficulty in finding pretexts for interfering in the affairs of Egypt.
In the first place, there was, as he contended, great anarchy and
confusion at Alexandria, people taking different sides in the
controversy with such fierceness as to render it impossible that good
government and public order should be restored until this great question
was settled. He also claimed a debt due from the Egyptian government,
which Photinus, Ptolemy's minister at Alexandria, was very dilatory in
paying. This led to animosities and disputes; and, finally, Caesar
found, or pretended to find, evidence that Photinus was forming plots
against his life. At length Caesar determined on taking decided action.
He sent orders both to Ptolemy and to Cleopatra to disband their forces,
to repair to Alexandria, and lay their respective claims before him for
his adjudication.

[Sidenote: Cleopatra.]

Cleopatra complied with this summons, and returned to Egypt with a view
to submitting her case to Caesar's arbitration. Ptolemy determined to
resist. He advanced toward Egypt, but it was at the head of his army,
and with a determination to drive Caesar and all his Roman
followers away.

[Sidenote: Caesar's guilty passion for Cleopatra.]

When Cleopatra arrived, she found that the avenues of approach to
Caesar's quarters were all in possession of her enemies, so that, in
attempting to join him, she incurred danger of falling into their hands
as a prisoner. She resorted to a stratagem, as the story is, to gain a
secret admission. They rolled her up in a sort of bale of bedding or
carpeting, and she was carried in in this way on the back of a man,
through the guards, who might otherwise have intercepted her. Caesar was
very much pleased with this device, and with the successful result of
it. Cleopatra, too, was young and beautiful, and Caesar immediately
conceived a strong but guilty attachment to her, which she readily
returned. Caesar espoused her cause, and decided that she and Ptolemy
should jointly occupy the throne.

[Sidenote: Resistance of Ptolemy.]
[Sidenote: The Alexandrine war.]

Ptolemy and his partisans were determined not to submit to this award.
The consequence was, a violent and protracted war. Ptolemy was not only
incensed at being deprived of what he considered his just right to the
realm, he was also half distracted at the thought of his sister's
disgraceful connection with Caesar. His excitement and distress, and the
exertions and efforts to which they aroused him, awakened a strong
sympathy in his cause among the people, and Caesar found himself
involved in a very serious contest, in which his own life was brought
repeatedly into the most imminent danger, and which seriously threatened
the total destruction of his power. He, however, braved all the
difficulty and dangers, and recklessly persisted in the course he had
taken, under the influence of the infatuation in which his attachment to
Cleopatra held him, as by a spell.

[Sidenote: The Pharos.]
[Sidenote: Great splendor of the Pharos.]

The war in which Caesar was thus involved by his efforts to give
Cleopatra a seat with her brother on the Egyptian throne, is called in
history the Alexandrine war. It was marked by many strange and romantic
incidents. There was a light-house, called the Pharos, on a small island
opposite the harbor of Alexandria, and it was so famed, both on account
of the great magnificence of the edifice itself, and also on account of
its position at the entrance to the greatest commercial port in the
world, that it has given its name, as a generic appellation, to all
other structures of the kind--any light-house being now called a Pharos,
just as any serious difficulty is called a Gordian knot. The Pharos was
a lofty tower--the accounts say that it was five hundred feet in height,
which would be an enormous elevation for such a structure--and in a
lantern at the top a brilliant light was kept constantly burning, which
could be seen over the water for a hundred miles. The tower was built in
several successive stories, each being ornamented with balustrades,
galleries, and columns, so that the splendor of the architecture by day
rivaled the brilliancy of the radiation which beamed from the summit by
night. Far and wide over the stormy waters of the Mediterranean this
meteor glowed, inviting and guiding the mariners in; and both its
welcome and its guidance were doubly prized in those ancient days, when
there was neither compass nor sextant on which they could rely. In the
course of the contest with the Egyptians, Caesar took possession of the
Pharos, and of the island on which it stood; and as the Pharos was then
regarded as one of the seven wonders of the world, the fame of the
exploit, though it was probably nothing remarkable in a military point
of view, spread rapidly throughout the world.

[Sidenote: It is captured by Caesar.]

And yet, though the capture of a light-house was no very extraordinary
conquest, in the course of the contests on the harbor which were
connected with it Caesar had a very narrow escape from death. In all
such struggles he was accustomed always to take personally his full
share of the exposure and the danger. This resulted in part from the
natural impetuosity and ardor of his character, which were always
aroused to double intensity of action by the excitement of battle, and
partly from the ideas of the military duty of a commander which
prevailed in those days. There was besides, in this case, an additional
inducement to acquire the glory of extraordinary exploits, in Caesar's
desire to be the object of Cleopatra's admiration, who watched all his
movements, and who was doubly pleased with his prowess and bravery,
since she saw that they were exercised for her sake and in her cause.

[Sidenote: Situation of the Pharos.]
[Sidenote: Caesar's personal danger.]
[Sidenote: Caesar's narrow escape.]

The Pharos was built upon an island, which was connected by a pier or
bridge with the main land. In the course of the attack upon this bridge,
Caesar, with a party of his followers, got driven back and hemmed in by
a body of the enemy that surrounded them, in such a place that the only
mode of escape seemed to be by a boat, which might take them to a
neighboring galley. They began, therefore, all to crowd into the boat in
confusion, and so overloaded it that it was obviously in imminent danger
of being upset or of sinking. The upsetting or sinking of an overloaded
boat brings almost certain destruction upon most of the passengers,
whether swimmers or not, as they seize each other in their terror, and
go down inextricably entangled together, each held by the others in the
convulsive grasp with which drowning men always cling to whatever is
within their reach. Caesar, anticipating this danger, leaped over into
the sea and swam to the ship. He had some papers in his hand at the
time--plans, perhaps, of the works which he was assailing. These he held
above the water with his left hand, while he swam with the right. And to
save his purple cloak or mantle, the emblem of his imperial dignity,
which he supposed the enemy would eagerly seek to obtain as a trophy, he
seized it by a corner between his teeth, and drew it after him through
the water as he swam toward the galley. The boat which he thus escaped
from soon after went down, with all on board.

[Sidenote: The Alexandrian library.]
[Sidenote: Burning of the Alexandrian library.]

During the progress of this Alexandrine war one great disaster occurred,
which has given to the contest a most melancholy celebrity in all
subsequent ages: this disaster was the destruction of the Alexandrian
library. The Egyptians were celebrated for their learning, and, under
the munificent patronage of some of their kings, the learned men of
Alexandria had made an enormous collection of writings, which were
inscribed, as was the custom in those days, on parchment rolls. The
number of the rolls or volumes was said to be seven hundred thousand;
and when we consider that each one was written with great care, in
beautiful characters, with a pen, and at a vast expense, it is not
surprising that the collection was the admiration of the world. In fact,
the whole body of ancient literature was there recorded. Caesar set fire
to some Egyptian galleys, which lay so near the shore that the wind blew
the sparks and flames upon the buildings on the quay. The fire spread
among the palaces and other magnificent edifices of that part of the
city, and one of the great buildings in which the library was stored was
reached and destroyed. There was no other such collection in the world;
and the consequence of this calamity has been, that it is only detached
and insulated fragments of ancient literature and science that have come
down to our times. The world will never cease to mourn the
irreparable loss.

[Sidenote: Caesar returns to Rome.]

Notwithstanding the various untoward incidents which attended the war in
Alexandria during its progress, Caesar, as usual, conquered in the end.
The young king Ptolemy was defeated, and, in attempting to make his
escape across a branch of the Nile, he was drowned. Caesar then finally
settled the kingdom upon Cleopatra and a younger brother, and, after
remaining for some time longer in Egypt, he set out on his return
to Rome.

[Illustration: Cleopatra's Barge]

[Sidenote: Subsequent adventures of Cleopatra.]

The subsequent adventures of Cleopatra were as romantic as to have given
her name a very wide celebrity. The lives of the virtuous pass smoothly
and happily away, but the tale, when told to others, possesses but
little interest or attraction; while those of the wicked, whose days are
spent in wretchedness and despair, and are thus full of misery to the
actors themselves, afford to the rest of mankind a high degree of
pleasure, from the dramatic interest of the story.

[Sidenote: Her splendid barge.]
[Sidenote: Anthony and Octavius.]
[Sidenote: Death of Cleopatra.]

Cleopatra led a life of splendid sin, and, of course, of splendid
misery. She visited Caesar in Rome after his return thither. Caesar
received her magnificently, and paid her all possible honors; but the
people of Rome regarded her with strong reprobation. When her young
brother, whom Caesar had made her partner on the throne, was old enough
to claim his share, she poisoned him. After Caesar's death, she went
from Alexandria to Syria to meet Antony, one of Caesar's successors, in
a galley or barge, which was so rich, so splendid, so magnificently
furnished and adorned, that it was famed throughout the world as
Cleopatra's barge. A great many beautiful vessels have since been called
by the same name. Cleopatra connected herself with Antony, who became
infatuated with her beauty and her various charms as Caesar had been.
After a great variety of romantic adventures, Antony was defeated in
battle by his great rival Octavius, and, supposing that he had been
betrayed by Cleopatra, he pursued her to Egypt, intending to kill her.
She hid herself in a sepulcher, spreading a report that she had
committed suicide, and then Antony stabbed himself in a fit of remorse
and despair. Before he died, he learned that Cleopatra was alive, and he
caused himself to be carried into her presence and died in her arms.
Cleopatra then fell into the hands of Octavius, who intended to carry
her to Rome to grace his triumph. To save herself from this humiliation,
and weary with a life which, full of sin as it had been, was a constant
series of sufferings, she determined to die. A servant brought in an asp
for her, concealed in a vase of flowers, at a great banquet. She laid
the poisonous reptile on her naked arm, and died immediately of the bite
which it inflicted.


CHAPTER X.

CAESAR IMPERATOR.

[Sidenote: Caesar again at Rome.]
[Sidenote: Combinations against him.]
[Sidenote: Veni, vidi, vici.]

Although Pompey himself had been killed, and the army under his
immediate command entirely annihilated, Caesar did not find that the
empire was yet completely submissive to his sway. As the tidings of his
conquests spread over the vast and distant regions which were under the
Roman rule--although the story itself of his exploits might have been
exaggerated--the impression produced by his power lost something of its
strength, as men generally have little dread of remote danger. While he
was in Egypt, there were three great concentrations of power formed
against him in other quarters of the globe: in Asia Minor, in Africa,
and in Spain. In putting down these three great and formidable arrays of
opposition, Caesar made an exhibition to the world of that astonishing
promptness and celerity of military action on which his fame as a
general so much depends. He went first to Asia Minor, and fought a great
and decisive battle there, in a manner so sudden and unexpected to the
forces that opposed him that they found themselves defeated almost
before they suspected that their enemy was near. It was in reference to
this battle that he wrote the inscription for the banner, "_Veni, vidi,
vici_" The words may be rendered in English, "I came, looked, and
conquered," though the peculiar force of the expression, as well as the
alliteration, is lost in any attempt to translate it.

[Sidenote: Caesar made dictator.]

In the mean time, Caesar's prosperity and success had greatly
strengthened his cause at Rome. Rome was supported in a great measure by
the contributions brought home from the provinces by the various
military heroes who were sent out to govern them; and, of course, the
greater and more successful was the conqueror, the better was he
qualified for stations of highest authority in the estimation of the
inhabitants of the city. They made Caesar dictator even while he was
away, and appointed Mark Antony his master of horse. This was the same
Antony whom we have already mentioned as having been connected with
Cleopatra after Caesar's death. Rome, in fact, was filled with the fame
of Caesar's exploits, and, as he crossed the Adriatic and advanced
toward the city, he found himself the object of universal admiration
and applause.

[Sidenote: Opposition of Cato.]
[Sidenote: Pompey's sons.]

But he could not yet be contented to establish himself quietly at Rome.
There was a large force organized against him in Africa under Cato, a
stern and indomitable man, who had long been an enemy to Caesar, and who
now considered him as a usurper and an enemy of the republic, and was
determined to resist him to the last extremity. There was also a large
force assembled in Spain under the command of two sons of Pompey, in
whose case the ordinary political hostility of contending partisans was
rendered doubly intense and bitter by their desire to avenge their
father's cruel fate. Caesar determined first to go to Africa, and then,
after disposing of Cato's resistance, to cross the Mediterranean
into Spain.

[Sidenote: Complaints of the soldiers.]

Before he could set out, however, on these expeditions, he was involved
in very serious difficulties for a time, on account of a great
discontent which prevailed in his army, and which ended at last in open
mutiny. The soldiers complained that they had not received the rewards
and honors which Caesar had promised them. Some claimed offices, others
money others lands, which, as they maintained, they had been led to
expect would be conferred upon them at the end of the campaign. The fact
undoubtedly was, that, elated with their success, and intoxicated with
the spectacle of the boundless influence and power which their general
so obviously wielded at Rome, they formed expectations and hopes for
themselves altogether too wild and unreasonable to be realized by
soldiers; for soldiers, however much they may be flattered by their
generals in going into battle, or praised in the mass in official
dispatches, are after all but slaves, and slaves, too, of the very
humblest caste and character.

[Sidenote: The mutiny.]
[Sidenote: The army marches to Rome.]

The famous tenth legion, Cesar's favorite corps, took the most active
part in fomenting these discontents, as might naturally have been
expected, since the attentions and the praises which he had bestowed
upon them, though at first they tended to awaken their ambition, and to
inspire them with redoubled ardor and courage, ended, as such favoritism
always does, in making them vain, self-important, and unreasonable. Led
on thus by the tenth legion, the whole army mutinied. They broke up the
camp where they had been stationed at some distance beyond the walls of
Rome, and marched toward the city. Soldiers in a mutiny, even though
headed by their subaltern officers, are very little under command; and
these Roman troops, feeling released from their usual restraints,
committed various excesses on the way, terrifying the inhabitants and
spreading universal alarm. The people of the city were thrown into utter
consternation at the approach of the vast horde, which was coming like a
terrible avalanche to descend upon them.

[Sidenote: Plan of the soldiers.]

The army expected some signs of resistance at the gates, which, if
offered, they were prepared to encounter and overcome. Their plan was,
after entering the city, to seek Caesar and demand their discharge from
his service. They knew that he was under the necessity of immediately
making a campaign in Africa, and that, of course, he could not possibly,
as they supposed, dispense with them. He would, consequently, if they
asked their discharge, beg them to remain, and, to induce them to do it,
would comply with all their expectations and desires.

Such was their plan. To tender, however, a resignation of an office as a
means of bringing an opposite party to terms, is always a very hazardous
experiment. We easily overrate the estimation in which our own services
are held taking what is said to us in kindness or courtesy by friends
as the sober and deliberate judgment of the public; and thus it often
happens that persons who in such case offer to resign, are astonished to
find their resignations readily accepted.

[Sidenote: The army marches into the city.]

When Caesar's mutineers arrived at the gates, they found, instead of
opposition, only orders from Caesar, by which they were directed to
leave all their arms except their swords, and march into the city. They
obeyed. They were then directed to go to the Campus Martius, a vast
parade ground situated within the walls, and to await Caesar's
orders there.[3]

[Footnote 3: See map of the city of Rome, fronting the first page.]

[Sidenote: The Campus Martius.]
[Sidenote: Caesar's address to the army.]

Caesar met them in the Campus Martius, and demanded why they had left
their encampment without orders and come to the city. They stated in
reply, as they had previously planned to do, that they wished to be
discharged from the public service. To their great astonishment, Caesar
seemed to consider this request as nothing at all extraordinary, but
promised, an the other hand, very readily to grant it He said that they
should be at once discharged, and should receive faithfully all the
rewards which had been promised them at the close of the war for their
long and arduous services. At the same time, he expressed his deep
regret that, to obtain what he was perfectly willing and ready at any
time to grant, they should have so far forgotten their duties as Romans,
and violated the discipline which should always be held absolutely
sacred by every soldier. He particularly regretted that the tenth
legion, on which he had been long accustomed so implicitly to rely,
should have taken a part in such transactions.

[Sidenote: Its effects.]
[Sidenote: Attachment of Caesar's soldiers.]

In making this address, Caesar assumed a kind and considerate, and even
respectful tone toward his men, calling them _Quirites_ instead of
soldiers--an honorary mode of appellation, which recognized them as
constituent members of the Roman commonwealth. The effect of the whole
transaction was what might have been anticipated. A universal desire was
awakened throughout the whole army to return to their duty. They sent
deputations to Caesar, begging not to be taken at their word, but to be
retained in the service, and allowed to accompany him to Africa. After
much hesitation and delay, Caesar consented to receive them again, all
excepting the tenth legion, who, he said, had now irrevocably lost his
confidence and regard. It is a striking illustration of the strength of
the attachment which bound Caesar's soldiers to their commander, that
the tenth legion _would not_ be discharged, after all. They followed
Caesar of their own accord into Africa, earnestly entreating him again
and again to receive them. He finally did receive them in detachments,
which he incorporated with the rest of his army, or sent on distant
service, but he would never organize them as the tenth legion again.

[Sidenote: Caesar goes to Africa.]
[Sidenote: Cato shuts himself up in Africa.]

It was now early in the winter, a stormy season for crossing the
Mediterranean Sea. Caesar, however, set off from Rome immediately,
proceeded south to Sicily, and encamped on the sea-shore there till the
fleet was ready to convey his forces to Africa. The usual fortune
attended him in the African campaigns His fleet was exposed to imminent
dangers in crossing the sea, but, in consequence of the extreme
deliberation and skill with which his arrangements were made, he escaped
them all. He overcame one after another of the military difficulties
which were in his way in Africa. His army endured, in the depth of
winter, great exposures and fatigues, and they had to encounter a large
hostile force under the charge of Cato. They were, however, successful
in every undertaking. Cato retreated at last to the city of Utica, where
he shut himself up with the remains of his army; but finding, at length,
when Caesar drew near, that there was no hope or possibility of making
good his defense, and as his stern and indomitable spirit could not
endure the thought of submission to one whom he considered as an enemy
to his country and a traitor he resolved upon a very effectual mode of
escaping from his conqueror's power.

[Sidenote: He stabs himself.]
[Sidenote: Death of Cato.]

He feigned to abandon all hope of defending the city, and began to make
arrangements to facilitate the escape of his soldiers over the sea. He
collected the vessels in the harbor, and allowed all to embark who were
willing to take the risks of the stormy water. He took, apparently,
great interest in the embarkations, and, when evening came on, he sent
repeatedly down to the sea-side to inquire about the state of the wind
and the progress of the operations. At length he retired to his
apartment, and, when all was quiet in the house, he lay down upon his
bed and stabbed himself with his sword He fell from the bed by the blow,
or else from the effect of some convulsive motion which the penetrating
steel occasioned. His son and servants, hearing the fall, came rushing
into the room, raised him from the floor, and attempted to bind up and
stanch the wound. Cato would not permit them to do it. He resisted them
violently as soon as he was conscious of what they intended. Fairfax
was natural son of Sir Thomas Fairfax of Denton, and natural brother to
Sir Thomas Fairfax, the first who was created Baron of Cameron. His
younger brother was knighted, and slain at the memorable siege of
Ostend, 1601, of which place he was some time governor[1].

When he married is not on record, or in what circumstances he lived:
But it is very probable, his father took care to support him in a
manner suitable to his own quality, and his son's extraordinary
merit, he being always stiled Edward Fairfax, Esq; of Newhall in
Fuystone, in the forest of Knaresborough.

The year in which he died is likewise uncertain, and the last account we
hear of him is, that he was living in 1631, which shews, that he was
then pretty well advanced in years, and as I suppose gave occasion to
the many mistakes that have been made as to the time of his writing.
Besides the translation of Godfrey of Bulloigne, Mr. Fairfax wrote the
history of Edward the Black Prince, and certain eclogues, which Mrs.
Cooper tells us are yet in manuscript, tho' (says she) "by the
indulgence of the family, from whom I had likewise the honour of these
memoirs, I am permitted to oblige the world with a specimen of their
beauties." He wrote also a book called, Dæmonologie, in which he shews
a great deal of ancient reading and knowledge; it is still in manuscript,
and in the beginning he gives this character of himself[2]. "I am in
religion neither a fantastic Puritan, nor superstitious Papist,
but so settled in conscience, that I have the sure ground of God's word
to warrant all I believe, and the commendable ordinances of our English
Church, to approve all I practise; In which course I live a faithful
Christian, and an obedient, and so teach my family." The eclogues already
mentioned are twelve in number, all of them written after the accession
of King James to the throne of England, on important subjects, relating
to the manners, characters, and incidents of the times he lived in:
they are pointed with many fine strokes of satire, dignified with noble
instructions of morality, and policy, to those of the highest rank,
and some modest hints to Majesty itself.

The learning contained in these
eclogues is so various and extensive, lhat according to the opinion
of his son, who has written long annotations on each, no man's
reading besides his own was sufficient to explain his references
effectually.

As his translation of Tasso is in every body's hand, we shall take the
specimen from the fourth eclogue, called Eglon and Alexis, as I find
it in Mrs. Cooper's collection.

EGLON and ALEXIS.

Whilst on the rough, and heath-strew'd wilderness His tender flocks the
rasps, and bramble crop, Poor shepherd Eglon, full of sad distress!
By the small stream, fat on a mole-hill top:
Crowned with a wreath of Heban branches broke:
Whom good Alexis found, and thus bespoke.

ALEXIS.

My friend, what means this silent lamentation?

Why on this field of mirth, this realm of smiles Doth the fierce war
of grief make such invasion?
Witty Timanthes[3] had he seen, e're whiles, What face of woe thy cheek
of sadness bears, He had not curtained Agamemnon's tears.
The black ox treads not yet upon thy toe, Nor thy good fortune turns her
wheel awaye; Thy flocks increase, and thou increasest so, Thy straggling
goates now mild, and gentlely; And that fool love thou whipst away with
rods; Then what sets thee, and joy so far at odds?

[Footnote 1: Muses Library, p. 343.]
[Footnote 2: Muses Library, p. 344.]
[Footnote 3: Timanthes the painter, who designing the sacrifice of
Iphigenia, threw a veil over the face of Agamemnon, not able to express
a father's anguish.]
* * * * *

THOMAS RANDOLPH,
A Poet of no mean genius, was born at Newnham, near Daintry in Northamptonshire,
the 15th of June, 1605; he was son of William Randolph of Hams, near
Lewes in Sussex, was educated at Westminster school, and went from
thence to Trinity College in Cambridge, 1623, of which he became a
fellow; he commenced Master of Arts, and in this degree was
incorporated at Oxon[1], became famous (says Wood) for his ingenuity,
being the adopted son of Ben Johnson, and accounted one of the most
pregnant wits of his age.

The quickness of his parts was discovered early; when he was about
nine or ten years old he wrote the History of the Incarnation of
Our Saviour in verse, which is preserved in manuscript under his
own hand writing.

Randolph receives from Langbaine the highest encomium. He tells his
readers that they need expect no discoveries of thefts, for this author
had no occasion to practice plagiary, having so large a fund of wit
of his own, that he needed not to borrow from others. Were a foreigner
to form a notion of the merit of the English poets from reading Langbaine,
they would be in raptures with Randolph and Durfey, and others of their
class, while Dryden, and the first-rate wits, would be quite neglected;
Langbaine is so far generous, that he does all he can to draw obscure
men into light, but then he cannot be acquitted of envy, for endeavouring
to shade the lustre of those whose genius has broke through obscurity
without his means, and he does no service to his country while he confines
his panegyric to mean versifiers, whom no body can read without a certain
degree of contempt.

Our author had done nothing in life it seems worth preserving, or at
least that cotemporary historians thought so, for there is
little to be learned concerning him.

Wood says he was like other poets, much addicted to libertine
indulgence, and by being too free with his constitution in the
company of his admirers, and running into fashionable excesses, he
was the means of shortening his own days.

He died at little Haughton in Northamptonshire, and was buried in an isle
adjoining to the church in that place, on the 17th of March, 1634. He
had soon after a monument of white marble, wreathed about with laurel,
erected over his grave at the charge of lord Hatton of Kirby. Perhaps
the greatest merit which this author has to plead, is his attachment
to Ben Johnson, and admiration of him: Silius Italicus performed an
annual visit to Virgil's tomb, and that circumstance reflects more
honour upon him in the eyes of Virgil's admirers, than all the works
of that author.

Langbaine has preserved a monument
of Randolph's friendship for Ben Johnson, in
an ode he addressed to him, occasioned by Mr.

Feltham's severe attack upon him, which is particularized in the life
of Ben; from this ode we shall quote a stanza or two, before I give an
account of his dramatic compositions.

Ben, do not leave the stage, 'Cause 'tis a loathsome age; For pride,
and impudence will grow too bold, When they shall hear it told, They
frighted thee; stand high as is thy cause, Their hiss is thy applause.

Most just were thy disdain, Had they approved thy vein:
So thou for them, and they for thee were born; They to incense, and thou
too much to scorn.

Wilt thou engross thy store Of wheat, and pour no more, Because
their bacon brains have such a taste As more delight in mast?
No! set them forth a board of dainties, full As thy best muse can cull;
Whilst they the while do pine, And thirst 'midst all their wine,
What greater plague can hell itself devize, Than to be willing thus
to tantalize?

The reader may observe that the stanzas are reasonably smooth, and
mark him a tolerable versifier. I shall now give some account of
his plays.

1. Amyntas, or the Impossible
Dowry, a Pastoral acted before the King and Queen at Whitehall. 2.

Aristippus, or the Jovial Philosopher; presented in a private
shew, to which is added the Conceited Pedlar.
3. Jealous Lovers, a Comedy, presented to their Majesties at Cambridge,
by the students of Trinity College. This play Langbaine thinks the best
of Randolph's, as appears by an epilogue written by Mrs. Behn, and printed
in her collection of poems published in 8vo, 1681; it was revised
and printed by the author in his life-time, being ushered into the world
with copies of verses by some of the best wits, both of Oxford and
Cambridge. 4. Muses Looking Glass, a Comedy, which by the author was
first called The Entertainment; as appears from Sir Aston Cokaine's
Works, who writ an encomium on it, and Mr. Richard West said of it,
Who looks within this clearer glass will say, At once he writ an ethic
tract and play.

All these dramatic pieces and poems were published in 1668; he
translated-likewise the second Epod of Horace, several pieces
out of Claudian, and likewise a dramatic piece from Aristophanes, which
he calls Hey for Honesty, Down with Knavery, a pleasant comedy
printed in 4to. London 1651. A gentleman of St. John's College,
writes thus in honour of our author;
Immortal Ben is dead, and as that ball, On Ida toss'd so in his crown,
by all The infantry of wit. Vain priests! that chair Is only fit
for his true son and heir.
Reach here thy laurel: Randolph, 'tis thy praise:
Thy naked skull shall well become the bays.

See, Daphne courts thy ghost; and spite of fate, Thy poems shall
be Poet Laureate.

[Footnote 1: Athen. Oxon. p. 224.]
* * * * *

GEORGE CHAPMAN
Was born in the year 1557, but of what family he is descended, Mr.
Wood has not been able to determine; he was a man in very high reputation
in his time, and added not a little to dramatic excellence.
In 1574, being well grounded in grammar learning, he was sent to the
university, but it is not clear whether to Oxford or Cambridge; it is
certain that he was sometime in Oxford, and was taken notice of for his
great skill in the Latin and Greek languages, but not in logic and
philosophy, which is the reason it may be presumed, that he took no degree
there. After this he came to London, and contracted an acquaintance,
as Wood says, with Shakespear, Johnson, Sidney, Spenser and Daniel.

He met with a very warm patronage from
Sir Thomas Walsingham, who had always
had a constant friendship for him, and after that gentleman's
decease, from his son Thomas Walsingham, esquire, whom Chapman loved
from his birth.

He was also respected, and held in esteem by Prince Henry, and
Robert earl of Somerset, but the first being untimely snatched away,
and the other justly disgraced for an assassination[1], his hopes of
preferment were by these means frustrated; however, he was a
servant either to King James I. or Queen Anne his consort, through whose
reign he was highly valued by all his old friends, only there are some
insinuations, that as his reputation grew, Ben Johnson, naturally haughty
and insolent, became jealous of him, and endeavoured to suppress, as much
as possible, his rising fame[2], as Ben, after the death of Shakespear,
was without a rival.

Chapman was a man of a reverend aspect, and graceful manner, religious
and temperate, qualities which seldom meet (says Wood) in a poet, and
was so highly esteemed by the clergy, that some of them have said, "that
as Musæus, who wrote the lives of Hero and Leander, had two excellent
scholars, Thamarus and Hercules, so had he in England in the latter end
of Queen Elizabeth, two excellent imitators in the same argument and
subject, viz. Christopher Marlow, and George Chapman." Our author
has translated the Iliad of Homer, published in folio, and dedicated to
Prince Henry, which is yet looked upon with some respect.
He is said to have had the spirit of a poet in him, and was indeed
no mean genius: Pope somewhere calls him an enthusiast in poetry.

He likewise translated the Odyssey, and the Battle of Frogs and Mice,
which were published in 1614, and dedicated to the earl of Somerset;
to this work is added Hymns and Epigrams, written by Homer, and
translated by our author.

He likewise attempted some part
of Hesiod, and continued a translation of Musæus Ærotopegnion de
Herone & Leandro.

Prefixed to this work, are some anecdotes of the life of Musæus,
taken by Chapman from the collection of Dr. William Gager, and a
dedication to the most generally ingenious and only learned architect
of his time, Inigo Jones esquire, Surveyor of his Majesty's Works.
At length, says Wood, this reverend and eminent poet, having lived
77 years in this vain, transitory world, made his last exit in the parish
of St. Giles's in the Fields, near London, on the 12th day of May, 1655,
and was buried in the yard on the South side of the church in St. Giles's:
soon after a monument was erected over his grave, built after the
manner of the old Romans, at the expence, and under the direction of his
much loved worthy friend Inigo Jones, whereon is this engraven, Georgius
Chapmannus, Poeta Homericus, Philosophus verus (etsi Christianus
Poeta) plusquam Celebris, &c.

His dramatic works are,
All Fools, a Comedy, presented at the Black Fryars, and afterwards
before his Majesty King James I. in the beginning of his reign, and
printed in 4to.

London 1605.

The plot is taken, and the characters formed upon Terence's Heautontimorumenos.
The Prologue and Epilogue writ in blank verse, shew that in these days
persons of quality, and they that thought themselves good critics,
in place of fitting in the boxes, as they now do, sat on the stage;
what influence those people had on the meanest sort of the audience,
may be seen by the following lines in the Prologue written by Chapman
himself.

Great are the gifts given to united heads; To gifts,
attire, to fair attire the stage
Helps much; for if our other audience see, You on the stage depart
before we end, Our wit goes with you all, and we are fools.

Alphonsus Emperor of Germany, a Tragedy, often acted with applause at a
private house in Black Fryars, by the servants of King Charles I.
printed in 4to. London 1654. This play, though it bears the name of
Alphonsus, was writ, as Langbaine supposes, in honour of the English
nation, in the person of Richard, Earl of Cornwal, son to King John,
and brother to Henry III. He was chosen King of the Romans in 1527.
About this time Alphonsus, the French King was chosen by other electors.
Though this King was accounted by some a pious prince, yet our author
represents him as a bloody tyrant, and, contrary to other historians,
brings him to an unfortunate end, he supposing him to be killed by
Alexander, son to Lorenzo de Cipres his secretary, in revenge of his
father, who was poisoned by him, and to compleat his revenge, he
makes him first deny his Saviour in hopes of life, and then stabs him,
glorying that he had at once destroyed both body and soul. This passage
is related by several authors, as Bolton's Four last Things, Reynolds
of the Passions, Clark's Examples, &c.

Blind Beggar of Alexandria, a Comedy, printed 1598, dedicated to the earl
of Nottingham, Lord High Admiral. Bussy d'Amboise, a Tragedy, often
presented at St.

Paul's, in the reign of King James I. and
since the Restoration with great applause; for the plot see Thuanus,
Jean de Serres, and Mezeray, in the reign of King Henry III. of
France.

This is the play of which Mr. Dryden speaks, when in his preface to
the Spanish Fryar, he resolves to burn one annually to the memory of Ben
Johnson. Some have differed from Mr. Dryden in their opinion of this
piece, but as the authorities who have applauded, are not so high as Mr.
Dryden's single authority, it is most reasonable to conclude not
much in its favour.

Bussy d'Amboise his Revenge, a Tragedy, printed 1613, and dedicated
to Sir Thomas Howard. This play is generally allowed to fall short
of the former of that name, yet the author, as appears from his
dedication, had a higher opinion of it himself, and rails at
those who dared to censure it; it is founded upon fiction, which
Chapman very justly defends, and says that there is no necessity for
any play being founded on truth.

Conspiracy and Tragedy of Charles, Duke of Byron, Marshal of France,
in two plays, acted at the Black Fryars in the reign of King James
I.
printed in 4to.

London 1608, dedicated to Sir Thomas Walsingham.

Cæsar and Pompey, a Roman Tragedy, printed 1631, and dedicated to the
Earl of Middlesex.

Gentleman Usher, a Comedy, printed in 4to. London 1606. We are not certain
whether this play was ever acted, and it has but an indifferent
character.

Humourous Day's Mirth, a Comedy; this is a very tolerable play.

Mask of the Two Honourable Houses, or Inns of Court, the Middle-Temple,
and Lincoln's-Inn, performed before the King at Whitehall, on Shrove
Monday at night, being the 15th of February, 1613, at the celebration of
the Royal Nuptials of the Palsgrave, and the Princess Elizabeth,
&c. with a description of their whole shew, in the manner of their march
on horseback, from the Master of the Rolls's house to the court,
with all their noble consorts, and shewful attendants; invented and
fashioned, with the ground and special structure of the whole work by
Inigo Jones; this Mask is dedicated to Sir Edward Philips, then Master
of the Rolls. At the end of the Masque is printed an Epithalamium, called
a Hymn for the most happy Nuptials of the Princess Elizabeth, &c.

May-Day, a witty Comedy, acted at the Black Fryars, and printed in
4to. 1611.

Monsieur d'Olive, a Comedy, acted by her Majesty's children at the Black
Fryars, printed in 4to. 1606.

Revenge for Honour, a Tragedy, printed 1654.

Temple, a Masque.

Two Wise-men, and all the rest Fools, or a Comical Moral, censuring the
follies of that age, printed in London 1619. This play is extended to
seven acts, a circumstance which Langbaine says he never saw in any
other, and which, I believe, has never been practised by any poet,
ancient or modern, but himself.

Widow's Tears, a Comedy, often presented in the Black and White
Fryars, printed in 4to.

London 1612; this play is formed upon the story of the Ephesian
Matron. These are all the plays of our author, of which we have been
able to gain any account; he joined with Ben Johnson and Marston in
writing a Comedy called Eastward-Hoe; this play has been since revived
by Tate, under the title of Cuckolds Haven. It has been said that for
some reflections contained in it against the Scotch nation; Ben
Johnson narrowly escaped the pillory.

See more of this, page 237.

[Footnote 1: See the Life of Overbury.]
[Footnote 2: Wood's Athen. Oxon.] 
* * * * * 

BEN JOHNSON,
One of the best dramatic poets of the 17th century, was descended
from a Scots family, his grandfather, who was a gentleman, being
originally of Annandale in that kingdom, whence he removed to
Carlisle, and afterwards was employed in the service of King Henry
VIII.[Sidenote: Caesar receives the Senate sitting.]
[Sidenote: Consequent excitement.]

He held, moreover, a great many public celebrations and triumphs in the
city in commemoration of his exploits and honors; and, on one of these
occasions, it was arranged that the Senate were to come to him at a
temple in a body, and announce to him certain decrees which they had
passed to his honor. Vast crowds had assembled to witness the ceremony
Caesar was seated in a magnificent chair, which might have been called
either a chair or a throne, and was surrounded by officers and
attendants When the Senate approached, Caesar did not rise to receive
them, but remained seated, like a monarch receiving a deputation of his
subjects. The incident would not seem to be in itself of any great
importance, but, considered as an indication of Caesar's designs, it
attracted great attention, and produced a very general excitement. The
act was adroitly managed so as to be somewhat equivocal in its
character, in order that it might be represented one way or the other on
the following day, according as the indications of public sentiment
might incline. Some said that Caesar was intending to rise, but was
prevented, and held down by those who stood around him. Others said that
an officer motioned to him to rise, but he rebuked his interference by a
frown, and continued his seat. Thus while, in fact, he received the
Roman Senate as their monarch and sovereign, his own intentions and
designs in so doing were left somewhat in doubt, in order to avoid
awakening a sudden and violent opposition.

[Sidenote: Caesar's statute crowned.]

Not long after this, as he was returning in public from some great
festival, the streets being full of crowds, and the populace following
him in great throngs with loud acclamations, a man went up to his
statue as he passed it, and placed upon the head of it a laurel crown,
fastened with a white ribbon, which was a badge of royalty. Some
officers ordered the ribbon to be taken down, and sent the man to
prison. Caesar was very much displeased with the officers, and dismissed
them from their office. He wished, he said, to have the opportunity to
disavow, himself, such claims, and not to have others disavow them
for him.

[Sidenote: Caesar's disavowals.]

Caesar's disavowals were, however, so faint, and people had so little
confidence in their sincerity, that the cases became more and more
frequent in which the titles and symbols of royalty were connected with
his name. The people who wished to gain his favor saluted him in public
with the name of _Rex_, the Latin word for king. He replied that his
name was Caesar, not _Rex_, showing, however, no other signs of
displeasure. On one great occasion, a high public officer, a near
relative of his, repeatedly placed a diadem upon his head, Caesar
himself, as often as he did it, gently putting it off. At last he sent
the diadem away to a temple that was near, saying that there was no king
in Rome but Jupiter. In a word, all his conduct indicated that he wished
to have it appear that the people were pressing the crown upon him,
when he himself was steadily refusing it.

[Sidenote: Some willing to make Caesar king.]
[Sidenote: Others oppose it.]

This state of things produced a very strong and universal, though
suppressed excitement in the city. Parties were formed. Some began to be
willing to make Caesar king; others were determined to hazard their
lives to prevent it. None dared, however, openly to utter their
sentiments on either side. They expressed them by mysterious looks and
dark intimations. At the time when Caesar refused to rise to receive the
Senate, many of the members withdrew in silence, and with looks of
offended dignity When the crown was placed upon his statue or upon his
own brow, a portion of the populace would applaud with loud
acclamations; and whenever he disavowed these acts, either by words or
counter-actions of his own, an equally loud acclamation would arise from
the other side. On the whole, however, the idea that Caesar was
gradually advancing toward the kingdom steadily gained ground.

[Sidenote: Caesar's pretexts.]
[Sidenote: His assumed humility.]

And yet Caesar himself spoke frequently with great humility in respect
to his pretensions and claims; and when he found public sentiment
turning against the ambitious schemes he seems secretly to have
cherished, he would present some excuse or explanation for his conduct
plausible enough to answer the purpose of a disavowal. When he received
the Senate, sitting like a king, on the occasion before referred to,
when they read to him the decrees which they had passed in his favor, he
replied to them that there was more need of diminishing the public
honors which he received than of increasing them. When he found, too,
how much excitement his conduct on that occasion had produced, he
explained it by saying that he had retained his sitting posture on
account of the infirmity of his health, as it made him dizzy to stand.
He thought, probably, that these pretexts would tend to quiet the strong
and turbulent spirits around him, from whose envy or rivalry he had most
to fear, without at all interfering with the effect which the act itself
would have produced upon the masses of the population. He wished, in a
word, to accustom them to see him assume the position and the bearing of
a sovereign, while, by his apparent humility in his intercourse with
those immediately around him, he avoided as much as possible irritating
and arousing the jealous and watchful rivals who were next to him
in power.

[Sidenote: Progress of Caesar's plans.]

If this were his plan, it seemed to be advancing prosperously toward
its accomplishment. The population of the city seemed to become more and
more familiar with the idea that Caesar was about to become a king. The
opposition which the idea had at first awakened appeared to subside, or,
at least, the public expression of it, which daily became more and more
determined and dangerous, was restrained. At length the time arrived
when it appeared safe to introduce the subject to the Roman Senate.
This, of course, was a hazardous experiment. It was managed, however, in
a very adroit and ingenious manner.

[Sidenote: The Sibylline books.]
[Sidenote: Declaration of the Sibylline books.]
[Sidenote: Plan for crowning Caesar.]

There were in Rome, and, in fact, in many other cities and countries of
the world in those days, a variety of prophetic books, called the
Sibylline Oracles, in which it was generally believed that future events
were foretold. Some of these volumes or rolls, which were very ancient
and of great authority, were preserved in the temples at Rome, under the
charge of a board of guardians, who were to keep them with the utmost
care, and to consult them on great occasions, in order to discover
beforehand what would be the result of public measures or great
enterprises which were in contemplation. It happened that at this time
the Romans were engaged in a war with the Parthians, a very wealthy and
powerful nation of Asia. Caesar was making preparations for an
expedition to the East to attempt to subdue this people. He gave orders
that the Sibylline Oracles should be consulted. The proper officers,
after consulting them with the usual solemn ceremonies, reported to the
Senate that they found it recorded in these sacred prophecies that the
Parthians could not be conquered except by a _king_, A senator proposed,
therefore, that, to meet the emergency, Caesar should be made king
during the war. There was at first no decisive action on this proposal.
It was dangerous to express any opinion. People were thoughtful,
serious, and silent, as on the eve of some great convulsion. No one knew
what others were meditating, and thus did not dare to express his own
wishes or designs. There soon, however, was a prevailing understanding
that Caesar's friends were determined on executing the design of
crowning him, and that the fifteenth of March, called, in their
phraseology, the _Ides of March_, was fixed upon as the coronation day.

[Sidenote: The conspiracy.]

In the mean time, Caesar's enemies, though to all outward appearance
quiet and calm, had not been inactive. Finding that his plans were now
ripe for execution, and that they had no, open means of resisting them,
they formed a conspiracy to assassinate Caesar himself, and thus bring
his ambitious schemes to an effectual and final end. The name of the
original leader of this conspiracy was Cassius.

[Sidenote: Cassius.]

Cassius had been for a long time Caesar's personal rival and enemy. He
was a man of a very violent and ardent temperament, impetuous and
fearless, very fond of exercising power himself, but very restless and
uneasy in having it exercised over him. He had all the Roman repugnance
to being under the authority of a master, with an additional personal
determination of his own not to submit to Caesar. He determined to slay
Caesar rather than to allow him to be made a king, and he went to work,
with great caution, to bring other leading and influential men to join
him in this determination. Some of those to whom he applied said that
they would unite with him in his plot provided he would get Marcus
Brutus to join them.

[Sidenote: Marcus Brutus.]

Brutus was the praetor of the city. The praetorship of the city was a
very high municipal office. The conspirators wished to have Brutus join
them partly on account of his station as a magistrate, as if they
supposed that by having the highest public magistrate of the city for
their leader in the deed, the destruction of their victim would appear
less like a murder, and would be invested, instead, in some respects,
with the sanctions and with the dignity of an official execution.

[Sidenote: Character of Brutus.]
[Sidenote: His firmness and courage.]

Then, again, they wished for the moral support which would be afforded
them in their desperate enterprise by Brutus's extraordinary personal
character. He was younger than Cassius, but he was grave, thoughtful,
taciturn, calm--a man of inflexible integrity, of the coolest
determination, and, at the same time, of the most undaunted courage. The
conspirators distrusted one another, for the resolution of impetuous men
is very apt to fail when the emergency arrives which puts it to the
test; but as for Brutus, they knew very well that whatever he undertook
he would most certainly do.

[Sidenote: The ancient Brutus.]
[Sidenote: His expulsion of the kings.]

There was a great deal even in his name. It was a Brutus that five
centuries before had been the main instrument of the expulsion of the
Roman kings. He had secretly meditated the design, and, the better to
conceal it, had feigned idiocy, as the story was, that he might not be
watched or suspected until the favorable hour for executing his design
should arrive. He therefore ceased to speak, and seemed to lose his
reason; he wandered about the city silent and gloomy, like a brute. His
name had been Lucius Junius before. They added Brutus now, to designate
his condition. When at last, however, the crisis arrived which he judged
favorable for the expulsion of the kings, he suddenly reassumed his
speech and his reason, called the astonished Romans to arms, and
triumphantly accomplished his design. His name and memory had been
cherished ever since that day as of a great deliverer.

[Sidenote: The history of Brutus.]

They, therefore, who looked upon Caesar as another king, naturally
turned their thoughts to the Brutus of their day, hoping to find in him
another deliverer. Brutus found, from time to time, inscriptions on his
ancient namesake's statue expressing the wish that he were now alive. He
also found each morning, as he came to the tribunal where he was
accustomed to sit in the discharge of the duties of his office, brief
writings, which had been left there during the night, in which few words
expressed deep meaning, such as "Awake, Brutus, to thy duty;" and "Art
thou indeed a Brutus?"

[Sidenote: His obligations to Caesar.]
[Sidenote: Caesar's friendship for Brutus.]

Still it seemed hardly probable that Brutus could be led to take a
decided stand against Caesar, for they had been warm personal friends
ever since the conclusion of the civil wars. Brutus had, indeed, been on
Pompey's side while that general lived; he fought with him at the battle
of Pharsalia, but he had been taken prisoner there, and Caesar, instead
of executing him as a traitor, as most victorious generals in a civil
war would have done, spared his life, forgave him for his hostility,
received him into his own service, and afterward raised him to very high
and honorable stations. He gave him the government of the richest
province, and, after his return from it, loaded with wealth and honors,
he made him praetor of the city. In a word, it would seem that he had
done every thing which it was possible to do to make him one of his most
trustworthy and devoted friends. The men, therefore, to whom Cassius
first applied, perhaps thought that they were very safe in saying that
they would unite in the intended conspiracy if he would get Brutus to
join them. They expected Cassius himself to make the attempt to secure
the co-operation of Brutus, as Cassius was on terms of intimacy with him
on account of a family connection. Cassius's wife was the sister of
Brutus. This had made the two men intimate associates and warm friends
in former years, though they had been recently somewhat estranged from
each other on account of having been competitors for the same offices
and honors. In these contests Caesar had decided in favor of Brutus.
"Cassius," said he, on one such occasion, "gives the best reasons; but I
can not refuse Brutus any thing he asks for." In fact, Caesar had
conceived a strong personal friendship for Brutus, and believed him to
be entirely devoted to his cause.

[Sidenote: Interview between Brutus and Cassius.]

Cassius, however, sought an interview with Brutus, with a view of
engaging him in his design. He easily effected his own reconciliation
with him, as he had himself been the offended party in their
estrangement from each other. He asked Brutus whether he intended to be
present in the Senate on the Ides of March, when the friends of Caesar,
as was understood, were intending to present him with the crown. Brutus
said he should not be there. "But suppose," said Cassius, "we are
specially summoned." "Then," said Brutus, "I shall go, and shall be
ready to die if necessary to defend the liberty of my country."

[Sidenote: Arguments of Cassius.]

Cassius then assured Brutus that there were many other Roman citizens,
of the highest rank, who were animated by the same determination, and
that they all looked up to him to lead and direct them in the work which
it was now very evident must be done. "Men look," said Cassius, "to
other praetors to entertain them with games, spectacles, and shows, but
they have very different ideas in respect to you. Your character, your
name, your position, your ancestry, and the course of conduct which you
have already always pursued, inspire the whole city with the hope that
you are to be their deliverer. The citizens are all ready to aid you,
and to sustain you at the hazard of their lives; but they look to you to
go forward, and to act in their name and in their behalf, in the crisis
which is now approaching."

[Sidenote: Effect on Brutus.]
[Sidenote: Brutus engages in the conspiracy.]

Men of a very calm exterior are often susceptible of the profoundest
agitations within, the emotions seeming to be sometimes all the more
permanent and uncontrollable from the absence of outward display. Brutus
said little, but his soul was excited and fired by Cassius's words.
There was a struggle in his soul between his grateful sense of his
political obligations to Caesar and his personal attachment to him on
the one hand, and, on the other, a certain stern Roman conviction that
every thing should be sacrificed, even friendship and gratitude, as
well as fortune and life, to the welfare of his country. He acceded to
the plan, and began forthwith to enter upon the necessary measures for
putting it into execution.

[Sidenote: Ligurius.]

There was a certain general, named Ligurius, who had been in Pompey's
army, and whose hostility to Caesar had never been really subdued. He
was now sick. Brutus went to see him. He found him in his bed. The
excitement in Rome was so intense, though the expressions of it were
suppressed and restrained, that every one was expecting continually some
great event, and every motion and look was interpreted to have some deep
meaning. Ligurius read in the countenance of Brutus, as he approached
his bedside, that he had not come on any trifling errand. "Ligurius,"
said Brutus, "this is not a time for _you_ to be sick." "Brutus,"
replied Ligurius, rising at once from his couch, "if you have any
enterprise in mind that is worthy of you, I am well." Brutus explained
to the sick man their design, and he entered into it with ardor.

[Sidenote: Consultations of the conspirators.]
[Sidenote: Their bold plan.]
[Sidenote: Final arrangements.]

The plan was divulged to one after another of such men as the
conspirators supposed most worthy of confidence in such a desperate
undertaking, and meetings for consultation were held to determine what
plan to adopt for finally accomplishing their end. It was agreed that
Caesar must be slain; but the time, the place, and the manner in which
the deed should be performed were all yet undecided. Various plans were
proposed in the consultations which the conspirators held; but there was
one thing peculiar to them all, which was, that they did not any of them
contemplate or provide for any thing like secrecy in the commission of
the deed. It was to be performed in the most open and public manner.
With a stern and undaunted boldness, which has always been considered by
mankind as truly sublime, they determined that, in respect to the actual
execution itself of the solemn judgment which they had pronounced, there
should be nothing private or concealed. They thought over the various
public situations in which they might find Caesar, and where they might
strike him down, only to select the one which would be most public of
all. They kept, of course, their preliminary counsels private, to
prevent the adoption of measures for counteracting them; but they were
to perform the deed in such a manner as that, so soon as it was
performed, they should stand out to view, exposed fully to the gaze of
all mankind as the authors, of it. They planned no retreat, no
concealment, no protection whatever for themselves, seeming to feel that
the deed which they were about to perform, of destroying the master and
monarch of the world, was a deed in its own nature so grand and sublime
as to raise the perpetrators of it entirely above all considerations
relating to their own personal safety. Their plan, therefore, was to
keep their consultations and arrangements secret until they were
prepared to strike the blow, then to strike it in the most public and
imposing manner possible, and calmly afterward to await the
consequences.

[Sidenote: The place and the day.]

In this view of the subject, they decided that the chamber of the Roman
Senate was the proper place, and the Ides of March, the day on which he
was appointed to be crowned, was the propel time for Caesar to be slain.


CHAPTER XII.

THE ASSASSINATION.

[Sidenote: Caesar receives many warnings of his approaching fate.]

According to the account given by his historians, Caesar received many
warnings of his approaching fate, which, however, he would not heed.
Many of these warnings were strange portents and prodigies, which the
philosophical writers who recorded them half believed themselves, and
which they were always ready to add to their narratives even if they did
not believe them, on account of the great influence which such an
introduction of the supernatural and the divine had with readers in
those days in enhancing the dignity and the dramatic interest of the
story. These warnings were as follows:

[Sidenote: The tomb and inscription.]

At Capua, which was a great city at some distance south of Rome, the
second, in fact, in Italy, and the one which Hannibal had proposed to
make his capital, some workmen were removing certain ancient sepulchers
to make room for the foundations of a splendid edifice which, among his
other plans for the embellishment of the cities of Italy, Caesar was
intending to have erected there. As the excavations advanced, the
workmen came at last to an ancient tomb, which proved to be that of the
original founder of Capua; and, in bringing out the sarcophagus, they
found an inscription, worked upon a brass plate, and in the Greek
character, predicting that if those remains were ever disturbed, a great
member of the Julian family would be assassinated by his own friends,
and his death would be followed by extended devastations throughout
all Italy.

[Sidenote: Caesar's horses.]

The horses, too, with which Caesar had passed the Rubicon, and which had
been, ever since that time, living in honorable retirement in a splendid
park which Caesar had provided for them, by some mysterious instinct, or
from some divine communication, had warning of the approach of their
great benefactor's end. They refused their food, and walked about with
melancholy and dejected looks, mourning apparently, and in a manner
almost human, some impending grief.

[Sidenote: The soothsayers.]

There was a class of prophets in those days called by a name which has
been translated _soothsayers_. These soothsayers were able, as was
supposed, to look somewhat into futurity--dimly and doubtfully, it is
true, but really, by means of certain appearances exhibited by the
bodies of the animals offered in sacrifices These soothsayers were
consulted on all important occasions; and if the auspices proved
unfavorable when any great enterprise was about to be undertaken, it was
often, on that account, abandoned or postponed. One of these
soothsayers, named Spurinna, came to Caesar one day, and informed him
that he had found, by means of a public sacrifice which he had just been
offering, that there was a great and mysterious danger impending over
him, which was connected in some way with the Ides of March, and he
counseled him to be particularly cautious and circumspect until that day
should have passed.

[Sidenote: The hawks and the wren.]

The Senate were to meet on the Ides of March in a new and splendid
edifice, which had been erected for their use by Pompey. There was in
the interior of the building, among other decorations, a statue of
Pompey. The day before the Ides of March, some birds of prey from a
neighboring grove came flying into this hall, pursuing a little wren
with a sprig of laurel in its mouth. The birds tore the wren to pieces,
the laurel dropping from its bill to the marble pavement of the floor
below. Now, as Caesar had been always accustomed to wear a crown of
laurel on great occasions, and had always evinced a particular fondness
for that decoration, that plant had come to be considered his own proper
badge, and the fall of the laurel, therefore, was naturally thought to
portend some great calamity to him.

[Sidenote: Caesar's agitation of mind.]
[Sidenote: His dream.]
[Sidenote: Calpurnia's dream.]
[Sidenote: The effect of a disturbed mind.]

The night before the Ides of March Caesar could not sleep. It would not
seem, however, to be necessary to suppose any thing supernatural to
account for his wakefulness. He lay upon his bed restless and excited,
or if he fell into a momentary slumber, his thoughts, instead of finding
repose, were only plunged into greater agitations, produced by strange,
and, as he thought, supernatural dreams. He imagined that he ascended
into the skies, and was received there by Jupiter, the supreme divinity,
as an associate and equal. While shaking hands with the great father of
gods and men, the sleeper was startled by a frightful sound. He awoke,
and found his wife Calpurnia groaning and struggling in her sleep. He
saw her by the moonlight which was shining into the room. He spoke to
her, and aroused her. After staring wildly for a moment till she had
recovered her thoughts, she said that she had had a dreadful dream. She
had dreamed that the roof of the house had fallen in, and that, at the
same instant, the doors had been burst open, and some robber or assassin
had stabbed her husband as he was lying in her arms. The philosophy of
those days found in these dreams mysterious and preternatural warnings
of impending danger; that of ours, however, sees nothing either in the
absurd sacrilegiousness of Caesar's thoughts, or his wife's incoherent
and inconsistent images of terror--nothing more than the natural and
proper effects, on the one hand, of the insatiable ambition of man, and,
on the other, of the conjugal affection and solicitude of woman. The
ancient sculptors carved out images of men, by the forms and lineaments
of which we see that the physical characteristics of humanity have not
changed. History seems to do the same with the affections and passions
of the soul. The dreams of Caesar and his wife on the night before the
Ides of March, as thus recorded, form a sort of spiritual statue, which
remains from generation to generation, to show us how precisely all the
inward workings of human nature are from age to age the same.

[Sidenote: Caesar hesitates.]

When the morning came Caesar and Calpurnia arose, both restless and ill
at ease. Caesar ordered the auspices to be consulted with reference to
the intended proceedings of the day. The soothsayers came in in due
time, and reported that the result was unfavorable. Calpurnia, too,
earnestly entreated her husband not to go to the senate-house that day.
She had a very strong presentiment that, if he did go, some great
calamity would ensue. Caesar himself hesitated. He was half inclined to
yield, and postpone his coronation to another occasion.

[Sidenote: Decimus Brutus.]

In the course of the day, while Caesar was in this state of doubt and
uncertainty, one of the conspirators, named Decimus Brutus, came in.
This Brutus was not a man of any extraordinary courage or energy, but he
had been invited by the other conspirators to join them, on account of
his having under his charge a large number of gladiators, who, being
desperate and reckless men, would constitute a very suitable armed force
for them to call in to their aid in case of any emergency arising which
should require it.

[Sidenote: Decimus Brutus waits upon Caesar.]

The conspirators having thus all their plans arranged, Decimus Brutus
was commissioned to call at Caesar's house when the time approached for
the assembling of the Senate, both to avert suspicion from Caesar's
mind, and to assure himself that nothing had been discovered It was in
the afternoon, the time for the meeting of the senators having been
fixed at five o'clock. Decimus Brutus found Caesar troubled and
perplexed, and uncertain what to do. After hearing what he had to say,
he replied by urging him to go by all means to the senate-house, as he
had intended. "You have formally called the Senate together," said he,
"and they are now assembling. They are all prepared to confer upon you
the rank and title of king, not only in Parthia, while you are
conducting this war but every where, by sea and land, except in Italy.
And now, while they are all in their places, waiting to consummate the
great act, how absurd will it be for you to send them word to go home
again, and come back some other day, when Calpurnia shall have had
better dreams!"

[Sidenote: He persuades him to go.]

He urged, too, that, even if Caesar was determined to put off the action
of the Senate to another day, he was imperiously bound to go himself and
adjourn the session in person. So saying, he took the hesitating
potentate by the arm, and adding to his arguments a little gentle force,
conducted him along.

[Sidenote: Artemidorus discovers the plot.]
[Sidenote: He warns Caesar.]

The conspirators supposed that all was safe The fact was, however, that
all had been discovered. There was a certain Greek, a teacher of
oratory, named Artemidorus. He had contrived to learn something of the
plot from some of the conspirators who were his pupils. M.W.

_Pilgrims' Road_ (Vol. ii., p. 237.).--Your correspondent S.H., in
noticing the old track "skirting the base of the chalk hills," and
known by the name of the "Pilgrims' Road," has omitted to state
that its commencement is at Oxford,--a fact of importance, inasmuch
as that the Archbishops of Canterbury had there a handsome palace
(the ruins of which still exist), which is said to have been the favourite
residence of Thomas à Becket. The tradition in the county thereupon is,
that his memory was held in such sanctity in that neighbourhood as
to cause a vast influx of pilgrims annually from thence to his
shrine at Canterbury; and the line of road taken by them can still
be traced, though only portions of it are now used as a highway. The
direction, however, in which it runs makes it clear (as S.H., no
doubt, is aware) that it cannot be Chaucer's road.

While on the subject of old roads, I may add that a tradition here
exists that the direct road between London and Tunbridge did not pass
through Sevenoaks; and a narrow lane which crosses the Pilgrims' road
near Everham is pointed out as the former highway, and by which
Evelyn must have been journeying (passing close, indeed, to the
seat of his present descendant at St.

Clere) when he met with that amusing robber-adventure at Procession
Oak.

M(2).

_Pilgrims' Road to Canterbury._--In the _Athenæum_ of Nov. 2nd, 1844,
there is a notice of _Remarks upon Wayside Chapels; with Observations
on the Architecture and present State of the Chantry on Wakefield
Bridge_:
By John Chessell and Charles Buckler--in which the reviewer says--

"In our pedestrianism we have traced the now desolate ruins of
several of these chapels along the old pilgrims' road to Canterbury."
[Sidenote: Caesar arrives at the senate house.]

At length he arrived at the senate-house, with the paper of Artemidorus
still unread in his hand. The senators were all convened, the leading
conspirators among them. They all rose to receive Caesar as he entered.
Caesar advanced to the seat provided for him, and, when he was seated,
the senators themselves sat down. The moment had now arrived, and the
conspirators, with pale looks and beating hearts, felt that now or never
the deed was to be done.

[Sidenote: Resolution of the Conspirators.]

It requires a very considerable degree of physical courage and
hardihood for men to come to a calm and deliberate decision that they
will kill one whom they hate, and, still more, actually to strike the
blow, even when under the immediate impulse of passion. But men who are
perfectly capable of either of these often find their resolution fail
them as the time comes for striking a dagger into the living flesh of
their victim, when he sits at ease and unconcerned before them, unarmed
and defenseless, and doing nothing to excite those feelings of
irritation and anger which are generally found so necessary to nerve the
human arm to such deeds. Utter defenselessness is accordingly,
sometimes, a greater protection than an armor of steel.

[Sidenote: Caesar and Pompey's statue.]

Even Cassius himself, the originator and the soul of the whole
enterprise, found his courage hardly adequate to the work now that the
moment had arrived; and, in order to arouse the necessary excitement in
his soul, he looked up to the statue of Pompey, Caesar's ancient and
most formidable enemy, and invoked its aid. It gave him its aid. It
inspired him with some portion of the enmity with which the soul of its
great original had burned; and thus the soul of the living assassin was
nerved to its work by a sort of sympathy with a block of stone.

[Sidenote: Plan of the conspirators.]

Foreseeing the necessity of something like a stimulus to action when the
immediate moment for action should arrive, the conspirators had agreed
that, as soon as Caesar was seated, they would approach him with a
petition, which he would probably refuse, and then, gathering around
him, they would urge him with their importunities, so as to produce, in
the confusion, a sort of excitement that would make it easier for them
to strike the blow.

[Sidenote: Marc Antony.]

There was one person, a relative and friend of Caesar's, named Marcus
Antonius, called commonly, however, in English narratives, Marc Antony,
the same who has been already mentioned as having been subsequently
connected with Cleopatra. He was a very energetic and determined man,
who, they thought, might possibly attempt to defend him. To prevent
this, one of the conspirators had been designated to take him aside, and
occupy his attention with some pretended subject of discourse, ready, at
the same time, to resist and prevent his interference if he should show
himself inclined to offer any.

[Sidenote: The petition.]
[Sidenote: Caesar assaulted.]

Things being thus arranged, the petitioner, as had been agreed, advanced
to Caesar with his petition, others coming up at the same time as if to
second the request. The object of the petition was to ask for the pardon
of the brother of one of the conspirators. Caesar declined granting it.
The others then crowded around him, urging him to grant the request with
pressing importunities, all apparently reluctant to strike the first
blow. Caesar began to be alarmed, and attempted to repel them. One of
them then pulled down his robe from his neck to lay it bare. Caesar
arose, exclaiming, "But this is violence." At the same instant, one of
the conspirators struck at him with his sword, and wounded him slightly
in the neck.

[Sidenote: He resists.]

All was now terror, outcry, and confusion Caesar had no time to draw his
sword, but fought a moment with his style, a sharp instrument of iron
with which they wrote, in those days, on waxen tablets, and which he
happened then to have in his hand. With this instrument he ran one of
his enemies through the arm.

[Illustration: POMPEY'S STATUE.]

[Sidenote: Caesar is overcome.]
[Sidenote: Pompey's statue.]
[Sidenote: Caesar's death.]

This resistance was just what was necessary to excite the conspirators,
and give them the requisite resolution to finish their work. Caesar soon
saw the swords, accordingly, gleaming all around him, and thrusting
themselves at him on every side. The senators rose in confusion and
dismay, perfectly thunderstruck at the scene, and not knowing what to
do. And, as we turn its pages, the lesson is borne in upon our
souls that there is no surer nor safer way of pleasing Our Father Who is
in Heaven than by remaining ever as little children in His sight.
Doubtless for many of her clients whose hearts are kindled as they read
this book, Soeur Thérèse will obtain, as she has done so often in the
past, wonderful gifts for health of soul and body.
But may she win for all of us without exception a deep and fruitful
conviction of the unchanging truth, that unless we become as little
children in the doing of our Heavenly Father's Will, we cannot enter
into our Eternal Home.

FRANCIS CARDINAL BOURNE, Archbishop of Westminster.

Feast of the Presentation of Our Blessed Lady, 1912.

______________________________
PROLOGUE: THE PARENTAGE & BIRTH OF MARIE FRANÇOISE THÉRÈSE MARTIN
In the month of September, 1843, a young man of twenty climbed the mountain
of the Great St. Bernard. His eyes shone with a holy enthusiasm as
the splendour of the Alps stirred to the depths his responsive nature.
Presently, accustomed as they were to discern God's beauty in the
beauty of His handiwork, they glistened with tears. He paused for
a space, then, continuing his journey, soon reached the celebrated
monastery that like a beacon on those heights darts afar its beams
of faith and magnificent charity.

The Prior, struck by the frank and open countenance of his guest, welcomed
him with more than wonted hospitality.

Louis Joseph Stanislaus Martin was the pilgrim's name.
He was born on August 22, 1823, at Bordeaux, while his father, a
brave and devout soldier, was captain in the garrison there.

"God has predestined this little one for Himself," said the saintly Bishop
of Bordeaux on the occasion of his baptism, and events have proved the
truth of his words. From this town, by the banks of the Garonne, his
parents went to Alençon in lower Normandy, and there in their new home,
as in their old one, Louis was the cherished Benjamin.

It was not the loveliness of Swiss lakes and mountains and skies that had
drawn the traveller from distant Alençon. He came to the monastery--and
his journey was chiefly on foot--to consecrate his days to God. On
learning his purpose the Prior questioned him upon his knowledge of Latin,
only to discover that the young aspirant had not completed his course
of studies in that language. "I am indeed sorry, my child," said the
venerable monk, "since this is an essential condition, but you must
not be disheartened. Go back to your own country, apply yourself diligently,
and when you have ended your studies we shall receive you with open
arms."
Louis was disappointed.

He set out for home--for exile he would have said--but ere long he
saw clearly that his life was to be dedicated to God in another and
equally fruitful way, and that the Alpine monastery was to be nothing
more to him than a sweet memory

.

* * * * * *
A few years after the vain quest of Louis Martin, a similar scene was
enacted in Alençon itself. Accompanied by her mother, Zélie Guérin--an
attractive and pious girl--presented herself at the Convent
of the Sisters of Charity in the hope of gaining admission. For
years it had been her desire to share the Sisters' work, but this was
not to be. In the interview that followed, the Superioress--guided
by the Holy Ghost--decided unhesitatingly that Zélie's vocation was
not for the religious life. God wanted her in the world, and so she
returned to her parents, and to the companionship of her elder sister
and her younger brother. Shortly afterwards the gates of the
Visitation Convent at Le Mans closed upon her beloved sister, and
Zélie's thoughts turned to the Sacrament of Holy Matrimony.

"O my God"--she repeated constantly-- "since I am unworthy to be
Thy Spouse, like my dear sister, I shall enter the married state
to fulfill Thy Holy Will, and I beseech Thee to make me the mother
of many children, and to grant that all of them may be dedicated
to Thee."

God gave ear to her prayer, and His Finger was visible in the circumstances
which led to her becoming the wife of Louis Martin, on July 12, 1858,
in Alençon's lovely Church of Notre Dame. Like the chaste Tobias, they
were joined together in matrimony--"solely for the love of children, in
whom God's Name might be blessed for ever and ever."

Nine white flowers bloomed in this sacred garden.
Of the nine, four were transplanted to Paradise ere their buds had
quite unfolded, while five were gathered in God's walled gardens
upon earth, one entering the Visitation Convent at Caen, the others
the Carmel of Lisieux.The next day Brutus and his associates called an assembly of the people
in the Forum, and made an address to them, explaining the motives which
had led them to the commission of the deed, and vindicating the
necessity and the justice of it. The people received these explanations
in silence. They expressed neither approbation nor displeasure. It was
not, in fact, to be expected that they would feel or evince any
satisfaction at the loss of their master. He had been their champion,
and, as they believed, their friend. The removal of Caesar brought no
accession of power nor increase of liberty to them. It might have been a
gain to ambitious senators, or powerful generals, or high officers of
state, by removing a successful rival out of their way, but it seemed to
promise little advantage to the community at large, other than the
changing of one despotism for another. Besides, a populace who know that
they mast be governed, prefer generally, if they must submit to some
control, to yield their submission to some one master spirit whom they
can look up to as a great and acknowledged superior. They had rather
have a Caesar than a Senate to command them.

[Sidenote: Feelings of the populace.]

The higher authorities, however, were, at might have been expected,
disposed to acquiesce in the removal of Caesar from his intended throne.
The Senate met, and passed an act of indemnity, to shield the
conspirators from all legal liability for the deed they had done. In
order, however, to satisfy the people too, as far as possible, they
decreed divine honors to Caesar, confirmed and ratified all that he had
done while in the exercise of supreme power, and appointed a time for
the funeral, ordering arrangements to be made for a very pompous
celebration of it.

[Sidenote: Caesar's will.]
[Sidenote: Its provisions.]

A will was soon found, which Caesar, it seems, had made some time
before. Calpurnia's father proposed that this will should be opened and
read in public at Antony's house; and this was accordingly done. The
provisions of the will were, many of them, of such a character as
renewed the feelings of interest and sympathy which the people of Rome
had begun to cherish for Caesar's memory. His vast estate was divided
chiefly among the children of his sister, as he had no children of his
own, while the very men who had been most prominent in his assassination
were named as trustees and guardians of the property; and one of them,
Decimus Brutus, the one who had been so urgent to conduct him to the
senate-house, was a second heir. He had some splendid gardens near the
Tiber, which he bequeathed to the citizens of Rome, and a large amount
of money also, to be divided among them, sufficient to give every man a
considerable sum.

[Sidenote: Preparations for Caesar's funeral.]
[Sidenote: The Field of Mars.]

The time for the celebration of the funeral ceremonies was made known by
proclamation, and, as the concourse of strangers and citizens of Rome
was likely to be so great as to forbid the forming of all into one
procession without consuming more than one day, the various classes of
the community were invited to come, each in their own way, to the Field
of Mars, bringing with them such insignia, offerings, and oblations as
they pleased. The Field of Mars was an immense parade ground, reserved
for military reviews, spectacles, and shows. A funeral pile was erected
here for the burning of the body There was to be a funeral discourse
pronounced, and Marc Antony had been designated to perform this duty.
My Shakespear rise; I will not lodge thee by, Chaucer, or Spenser, or bid
Beaumont lye, A little further to make thee a room:
Thou art a monument without a tomb, And art alive still, while the book
doth live, And we have wits to read, and praise to give.In
whatever company he might be, he always saluted the Blessed Sacrament
when passing a Church; and he never met a priest without paying
him a mark of respect.

A word from his lips sufficed to
silence whosoever dared blaspheme in his presence.Marc Antony, instead of pronouncing a formal panegyric upon his deceased
friend, ordered a crier to read the decrees of the Senate, in which all
honors, human and divine, had been ascribed to Caesar. He then added a
few words of his own. The bed was then taken up, with the body upon it,
and borne out into the Forum, preparatory to conveying it to the pile
which had been prepared for it upon the Field of Mars, A question,
however, here arose among the multitude assembled in respect to the
proper place for burning the body. The people seemed inclined to select
the most honorable place which could be found within the limits of the
city. Some proposed a beautiful temple on the Capitoline Hill. Alas!
Nine months had scarcely passed when he, too, fled from this world
and joined his angel brother.

They did not ask again. Yet, could the veil of the future have been
lifted, their heavy hearts would, of a surety, have been comforted.I imagine that they were the combs used at the first tonsure of the
novices, to them a most interesting memorial of that solemn rite through
life, and from touching affection to the brotherhood among whom they
had dwelt, buried with them at their death.[Illustration: BURNING OF CAESAR'S BODY.]

[Sidenote: The body burned in the Forum.]

This settled the question, and the whole company were soon in the
wildest excitement with the work of building up a funeral pile upon the
spot. At first they brought fagots and threw upon the fire, then benches
from the neighboring courts and porticoes, and then any thing
combustible which came to hand. The honor done to the memory of a
deceased hero was, in some sense, in proportion to the greatness of his
funeral pile, and all the populace on this occasion began soon to seize
every thing they could find, appropriate and unappropriate, provided
that it would increase the flame. On the manuscript of her Autobiography
she set the title: _"The Story of the Springtime of a little white
Flower,"_ and in truth such it was, for long ere the rigours of life's
winter came round, the Flower was blossoming in Paradise.

So fierce and extensive was the fire, that it spread to some of the
neighboring houses, and required great efforts to prevent a general
conflagration. The people, too, became greatly excited by the scene.
They lighted torches by the fire, and went to the houses of Brutus and
Cassius, threatening vengeance upon them for the murder of Caesar. 
_--C.B.M. will find in the _Athenæum_ for August 10th, 1850, a notice
of a book on this subject.

E.S. JACKSON.

_St. Thomas of Lancaster_ (Vol. i., p. 181.).--MR. R.M. MILNES
desires information relative to "St. Thomas of Lancaster." This
personage was Earl of Leicester as well as Earl of Lancaster; and
I find in the archives of this borough numerous entries relative
to him,--of payments made to him by the burgesses. Of these mention
is made in a _History of Leicester_ recently published.As frequently happens, however, in such deeds of sudden
violence, these hasty and lawless avengers found afterward that they had
made a mistake, and beheaded the wrong man.

[Sidenote: Caesar's monument.]
[Sidenote: The comet.]

The Roman people erected a column to the memory of Caesar, on which they
placed the inscription, "To THE FATHER OF HIS COUNTRY." They fixed the
figure of a star upon the summit of it, and some time afterward, while
the people were celebrating some games in honor of his memory, a great
comet blazed for seven nights in the sky, which they recognized as the
mighty hero's soul reposing in heaven.