MILLER. Beware, my child, lest thy reckoning should be false! (very
earnestly and solemnly). Art thou certain that we shall meet in that
world to come? Lo! how the color fades from thy cheek! My child must
feel that I can scarcely overtake her in that other world if she hurries
there before me. (LOUISA throws herself shuddering into his arms, he
clasps her warmly to his bosom, and continues in a tone of fervent
adjuration.) Oh! Louisa! Louisa! Fallen, perhaps already lost,
daughter! Treasure in thy heart the solemn counsels of a father! I
cannot eternally watch over thee! I may snatch the dagger from thy
hands; but thou canst let out life with a bodkin. I may remove poison
from thy reach; but thou canst strangle thyself with a necklace. Louisa!
Louisa! I can only warn thee. Wilt thou rush boldly forward till the
perfidious phantom which lured thee on vanishes at the awful brink of
eternity? Wilt thou dare approach the throne of the Omniscient with the
lie on thy lips? "At thy call am I here, Creator!" while thy guilty eyes
are in search only of their mortal idol! And when thou shalt see this
perishable god of thine own creation, a worm like thee, writhing at the
Almighty's feet; when thou shalt hear him in the awful moment give the
lie to thy guilty daring, and blast thy delusive hopes of eternal mercy,
which the wretch implores in vain for himself; what then! (Louder and
more fervently), What, then, unhappy one? (He clasps her still closer to
his bosom, and gazes upon her with wild and piercing looks; then suddenly
disengages himself.) I can do no more! (Raising his right hand towards
heaven.) Immortal Judge, I can do no more to save this soul from ruin!
Louisa, do what thou wilt. Offer up a sacrifice at the altar of this
idolized youth that shall make thy evil genius howl for transport and thy
good angels forsake thee in despair. Go on! Heap sin upon sin,--add to
them this, the last, the heaviest,--and, if the scale be still too light
throw in my curse to complete the measure. Here is a knife; pierce thy
own heart, and (weeping aloud and rushing away), and with it, thy
father's!

LOUISA (following and detaining him). Stay! stay! Oh! father, father!--
to think that affection should wound more cruelly than a tyrant's rage!
What shall I?--I cannot!--what must I do?

MILLER. If thy lover's kisses burn hotter than thy father's tears--then
die!

LOUISA (after a violent internal struggle, firmly). Father! Here is my
hand! I will--God! God! what am I doing! What would I?--father, I
swear. Woe is me! Criminal that I am where'er I turn! Father, be it
so! Ferdinand. God, look down upon the act! Thus I destroy the last
memorial of him. (Tearing the letter.)

MILLER (throwing himself in ecstasy upon her neck). There spoke my
daughter! Look up, my child! Thou hast lost a lover, but thou hast made
a father happy. (Embracing her, and alternately laughing and crying.)
My child! my child! I was not worthy to live so blest a moment! God
knows how I, poor miserable sinner, became possessed of such an angel!
My Louisa! My paradise! Oh! I know but little of love; but that to rend
its bonds must be a bitter grief I can well believe!

LOUISA. But let us hasten from this place, my father! Let us fly from
the city, where my companions scoff at me, and my good name is lost
forever--let us away, far away, from a spot where every object tells of
my ruined happiness,--let us fly if it be possible!

MILLER. Whither thou wilt, my daughter! The bread of the Lord grows
everywhere, and He will grant ears to listen to my music. Yes! we will
fly and leave all behind. I will set the story of your sorrows to the
lute, and sing of the daughter who rent her own heart to preserve her
father's. We will beg with the ballad from door to door, and sweet will
be the alms bestowed by the hand of weeping sympathy!


SCENE II.

   The former; FERDINAND.

LOUISA (who perceives him first, throws herself shrieking into MILLER'S
arms). God! There he is! I am lost!

MILLER. Who? Where?

LOUISA (points, with averted face, to the MAJOR, and presses closer to
her father). 'Tis he! 'Tis he! himself! Look round, father, look
round!--he comes to murder me!

MILLER (perceives him and starts back). How, baron? You here?

FERDINAND (approaches slowly, stands opposite to LOUISA, and fixes a
stern and piercing look upon her. After a pause, he says). Stricken
conscience, I thank thee! Thy confession is dreadful, but swift and
true, and spares me the torment of an explanation! Good evening, Miller!

MILLER. For God's sake! baron, what seek you? What brings you hither?
What means this surprise?

FERDINAND. I knew a time when the day was divided into seconds, when
eagerness for my presence hung upon the weights of the tardy clock, and
when every pulse-throb was counted until the moment of my coming. How is
it that I now surprise?

MILLER. Oh, leave us, leave us, baron! If but one spark of humanity
still linger in your bosom;--if you seek not utterly to destroy her whom
you profess to love, fly from this house, stay not one moment longer.
The blessing of God deserted us when your foot first crossed its
threshold. You have brought misery under a roof where all before was joy
and happiness. Are you not yet content? Do you seek to deepen the wound
which your fatal passion has planted in the heart of my only child?

FERDINAND. Strange father, I have come to bring joyful tidings to your
daughter.

MILLER. Perchance fresh hopes, to add to her despair. Away, away, thou
messenger of ill! Thy looks belie thy words.

FERDINAND. At length the goal of my hopes appears in view! Lady
Milford, the most fearful obstacle to our love, has this moment fled the
land. My father sanctions my choice. Fate grows weary of persecuting
us, and our propitious stars now blaze in the ascendant--I am come to
fulfil my plighted troth, and to lead my bride to the altar.

Very often an injured Turk would run up to where I sat, and stand
there, wildly telegraphing his complaints against some villainous-looking
Greek, or Italian, whom a stout English lad would have shaken out
of his dirty skin in five minutes.

Once, however, I saw the tables turned. As the anecdote will
help to illustrate the relative positions of the predatory tribes of
Balaclava, I will narrate it. Hearing one morning a louder hubbub than
was usual upon the completion of a bargain, and the inevitable quarrelling
that always followed, I went up to where I saw an excited crowd collected
around a Turk, in whose hands a Greek was struggling vainly. This Greek
had, it seemed, robbed his enemy, but the Turk was master this time,
and had, in order to force from the robber a confession of the
place where the stolen things were deposited (like dogs, as they
were, these fellows were fond of burying their plunder), resorted
to torture.

This was effected most ingeniously and simply by means of some
packthread, which, bound round the Greek's two thumbs, was tightened
on the tourniquet principle, until the pain elicited a confession.

But the Turk, stimulated to retaliation by his triumph, bagged the
Greek's basket, which contained amongst other things two watches,
which their present owner had no doubt stolen.

Driven to the most ludicrous show of despair, the Greek was about
to attempt another desperate struggle for the recovery of his goods,
when two Zouaves elbowed their small persons upon the crowded stage,
and were eagerly referred to by all the parties concerned in the
squabble.

How they contrived it, I cannot say, so prompt were their movements;
but, in a very few minutes, the watches were in their possession, and
going much faster than was agreeable either to Turk or Greek, who both
combined to arrest this new movement, and thereby added a sharp thrashing
to their other injuries. The Zouaves effected their escape safely, while
the Greek, with a despair that had in it an equal share of the ludicrous
and the tragic, threw himself upon the dusty ground, and tore his
thin hair out by handfuls.

I believe that the poor wretch, whom we could not help pitying, journeyed
to Kamiesch, to discover his oppressors; but I fear he didn't gain
much information there.

Had it not been for the unremitting activity of the authorities, no
life would have been safe in Balaclava, with its population of villains
of every nation. As it was, murder was sometimes added to robbery,
and many of the rascals themselves died suspicious deaths, with the
particulars of which the authorities did not trouble themselves. But
the officials worked hard, both in the harbour and on shore, to keep
order; few men could have worked harder. I often saw the old grey-haired
Admiral about before the sun had fairly shown itself; and those of his
subordinates must have been somewhat heavy sleepers who could play the
sluggard then.

At length the necessary preparations to establish our store were made.
We hit upon a spot about two miles from Balaclava, in advance of
Kadikoi, close to where the railway engines were stationed, and
within a mile of head-quarters.

Leave having been obtained to erect buildings here, we set to work
briskly, and soon altered the appearance of Spring Hill--so we
christened our new home.

Sometimes on horseback, sometimes getting a lift on the commissariat
carts, and occasionally on the ammunition railway-waggons, I managed
to visit Spring Hill daily, and very soon fitted up a shed sufficiently
large to take up my abode in. But the difficulty of building our store
was immense. To obtain material was next to impossible; but that collected
(not a little was, by leave of the Admiral, gleaned from the
floating rubbish in the harbour), to find workmen to make use of
it was still more difficult.

I spent days going round the shipping, offering great wages, even, for
an invalid able to handle saw and hammer, however roughly, and
many a long ride through the camps did I take on the same errand.

At length, by dint of hard canvassing, we obtained the aid of two
English sailors, whom I nicknamed "Big and Little Chips," and some Turks,
and set to work in good earnest.

I procured the Turks from the Pacha who commanded the division
encamped in the neighbourhood of Spring Hill.

It was decided that we should apply to him for help, and accordingly I
became ambassadress on this delicate mission, and rode over to the
Pacha's quarters, Jew Johnny attending me as interpreter. I was
received by the Pacha with considerable kindness and no trifling
amount of formality, and after taking coffee I proceeded, through
Jew Johnny, to explain the object of my visit, while his Excellency,
a tall man, with a dark pleasing face, smoked gravely, and took my
request into his gracious consideration.

On the following day came the answer to my request, in the persons
of two curious Turkish carpenters, who were placed at our orders.

'tis well! You see I am calm; calm, too, they
say, is the shuddering land through which the plague has swept. I am
calm. Yet ere I go, Louisa, one more request! It shall be my last. My
brain burns with fever! I need refreshment! Will you make me some
lemonade?

                     [Exit LOUISA.


SCENE III.

   FERDINAND and MILLER.

   They both pace up and down without speaking, on opposite sides
   of the room, for some minutes.

MILLER (standing still at length, and regarding the MAJOR with a
sorrowful air). Dear baron, perhaps it may alleviate your distress to
say that I feel for you most deeply.

FERDINAND. Enough of this, Miller. (Silence again for some moments.)
Miller, I forget what first brought me to your house. What was the
occasion of it?

MILLER. How, baron? Don't you remember? You came to take lessons on
the flute.

FERDINAND (suddenly). And I beheld his daughter! (Another pause.) You
have not kept your faith with me, friend! You were to provide me with
repose for my leisure hours; but you betrayed me and sold me scorpions.
(Observing MILLER'S agitation.) Tremble not, good old man! (falling
deeply affected on his neck)--the fault was none of thine!

MILLER (wiping his eyes). Heaven knows, it was not!

FERDINAND (traversing the room, plunged in the most gloomy meditation).
Strange! Oh! beyond conception strange, are the Almighty's dealings with
us! How often do terrific weights hang upon slender, almost invisible
threads! Did man but know that he should eat death in a particular
apple! Hem! Could he but know that! (He walks a few more turns; then
stops suddenly, and grasps MILLER'S hand with strong emotion.) Friend, I
have paid dearly for thy lessons--and thou, too, hast been no gainer--
perhaps mayst even lose thy all. (Quitting him dejectedly.) Unhappy
flute-playing, would that it never entered my brain!

MILLER (striving to repress his feelings). The lemonade is long in
coming. I will inquire after it, if you will excuse me.

FERDINAND. No hurry, dear Miller! (Muttering to himself.) At least to
her father there is none. Stay here a moment. What was I about to ask
you? Ay, I remember! Is Louisa your only daughter? Have you no other
child?

MILLER (warmly). I have no other, baron, and I wish for no other. That
child is my only solace in this world, and on her have I embarked my
whole stock of affection.

FERDINAND (much agitated). Ha! Pray see for the drink, good Miller!

                        [Exit MILLER.


SCENE IV.

   FERDINAND alone.

FERDINAND. His only child! Dost thou feel that, murderer? His only
one! Murderer, didst thou hear, his only one? The man has nothing in
God's wide world but his instrument and that only daughter! And wilt
thou rob him of her?

Rob him? Rob a beggar of his last pittance? The Americans in the
place gladly retained me as their medical attendant, and in one way or
other gave me plenty to do; but, in addition to this, I determined to
follow my original scheme of keeping an hotel in Cruces.

Right opposite my brother's Independent Hotel there was a place to
let which it was considered I could adapt to my purpose. It was a mere
tumble-down hut, with wattled sides, and a rotten thatched roof, containing
two rooms, one small enough to serve as a bedroom. For this charming
residence--very openly situated, and well ventilated--twenty pounds
a month was considered a fair and by no means exorbitant rent.
And yet I was glad to take possession of it; and in a few days had
hung its rude walls with calico of gayest colour in stripes, with
an exuberance of fringes, frills, and bows (the Americans love
show dearly), and prepared it to accommodate fifty dinner guests.

I had determined that it should be simply a _table d'hôte_, and
that I would receive no lodgers.

   Once, and once only, I relaxed this rule in favour of two American
women, who sent me to sleep by a lengthy quarrel of words, woke me
in the night to witness its crisis in a fisticuff _duello_, and
left in the morning, after having taken a fancy to some of my
moveables which were most easily removeable.

I had on my staff my black servant Mac, the little girl I have before
alluded to, and a native cook. I had had many opportunities of seeing
how my brother conducted his business; and adopted his tariff of
charges.

For an ordinary dinner my charge was four shillings; eggs and
chickens were, as I have before said, distinct luxuries, and fetched
high prices.

Four crowds generally passed through Cruces every month. In these were
to be found passengers to and from Chili, Peru, and Lima, as well
as California and America.

The distance from Cruces to Panama was not great--only twenty miles,
in fact; but the journey, from the want of roads and the roughness
of the country, was a most fatiguing one.

In some parts--as I found when I made the journey, in company with my
brother--it was almost impassable; and for more than half the
distance, three miles an hour was considered splendid progress.

The great majority of the travellers were rough, rude men, of dirty,
quarrelsome habits; the others were more civilized and more dangerous.

And it was not long before I grew very tired of life in Cruces,
although I made money rapidly, and pressed my brother to return
to Kingston.

Poor fellow!

(Throws a heavy purse on the table;
some gold drops out.) I cannot hold the dross to eternity.

MILLER (astonished). Mercy on us! what is this? The sound was not of
silver! (Goes to the table and cries out in astonishment.) In heaven's
name, baron, what means this? What are you about? You must be out of
your mind! (Clasping his hands.) There it lies! or I am bewitched.
'Tis damnable! I feel it now; the beauteous, shining, glorious heap of
gold! No, Satan, thou shalt not catch my soul with this!

FERDINAND. Have you drunk old wine, or new, Miller?

MILLER (violently). Death and furies! Look yourself, then. It is gold!

FERDINAND. And what of that?

MILLER. Let me implore you, baron! In the name of all the saints in
heaven, I entreat you! It is gold!

FERDINAND. An extraordinary thing, it must be admitted.

MILLER (after a pause; addressing him with emotion). Noble sir, I am a
plain, straightforward man--do you wish to tempt me to some piece of
knavery?--for, heaven knows, that so much gold cannot be got honestly!

The House of Lords has no such power; the House of Commons has no such
power; the Church has no such power; the rich men of the country have
no such power.

The poorest man amongst us, the beggar at our door, is governed--not
by the uncertain, passionate, arbitrary will of an individual--not
by the selfish insolence of an aristocratic faction--not by the
madness of democratic violence--but by the fixed, impartial, deliberate
voice of law, enacted by the general suffrage of a free people.

With this gold do I pay
you for (stops suddenly, and shudders)--I pay you--(after a pause, with
emotion)--for my three months' unhappy dream of your daughter!

MILLER (taking his hand and pressing it affectionately). Most gracious
sir! were you some poor and low-born citizen, and my daughter refused
your love, I would pierce her heart with my own hands. (Returning to the
gold in a sorrowful tone.) It showed itself weeks before the eventful
day.

In the dinner parties which were got up--in the orders sent to
England--in the supplies which came out, and in the many applications
made to the hostess of the British Hotel for plum-puddings and
mince-pies.MILLER (still fixing his eyes in transport on the money). Mine, then, it
remains? Mine? It cannot be denied that the security of individual
property is one of the strongest and most natural motives to induce men
to bow their necks to the yoke of civil government. In order to attain
this end of security to property, a legislator will proceed with
impartiality.I'll give my lessons in the great concert-room, and
won't I smoke away at the best puyke varinas--and, when you catch me
again fiddling at the penny-hop, may the devil take me!

FERDINAND. Stay, Miller! Be silent, and gather up your gold.
(Mysteriously.) Keep silence only for this one evening, and do me the
favor henceforward to give no more music lessons.

