"My good girl," said Lady Kimbuck, "talk less and prove more. When did
Mr. Bleke promise to marry you?"

"Oh, it's all right. I'm not expecting you to believe my word. I've got
all the proofs you'll want. Here's his letters."

Lady Kimbuck's eyes gleamed. She took the package eagerly. She never
lost an opportunity of reading compromising letters. She enjoyed them
as literature, and there was never any knowing when they might come in
useful.

"Roland," said Lady Eva, quietly, "haven't you anything to contribute
to this conversation?"

Miss Chilvers clutched at her bodice. Cinema palaces were a passion
with her, and she was up in the correct business.

"Is he here? In this room?"

Roland slunk from the shadows.

"Mr. Bleke," said Lord Evenwood, sternly, "who is this woman?"

Roland uttered a kind of strangled cough.

"Are these letters in your handwriting?" asked Lady Kimbuck, almost
cordially. She had seldom read better compromising letters in her life,
and she was agreeably surprized that one whom she had always imagined a
colorless stick should have been capable of them.

Roland nodded.

"Well, it's lucky you're rich," said Lady Kimbuck philosophically.
"What are you asking for these?" she enquired of Miss Chilvers.

"Exactly," said Lord Evenwood, relieved. "Precisely. Your sterling
common sense is admirable, Sophia. You place the whole matter at once
on a businesslike footing."

"Do you imagine for a moment----?" began Miss Chilvers slowly.

"Yes," said Lady Kimbuck. "How much?"

Miss Chilvers sobbed.

"If I have lost him for ever----"

Lady Eva rose.

"But you haven't," she said pleasantly. "I wouldn't dream of standing
in your way." She drew a ring from her finger, placed it on the table,
and walked to the door. "I am not engaged to Mr. Bleke," she said, as
she reached it.

Roland never knew quite how he had got away from The Towers. He had
confused memories in which the principals of the drawing-room scene
figured in various ways, all unpleasant. It was a portion of his life
on which he did not care to dwell. Safely back in his flat, however, he
gradually recovered his normal spirits. Indeed, now that the tumult and
the shouting had, so to speak, died, and he was free to take a broad
view of his position, he felt distinctly happier than usual. That Lady
Kimbuck had passed for ever from his life was enough in itself to make
for gaiety.

       *       *       *       *       *

He was humming blithely one morning as he opened his letters; outside
the sky was blue and the sun shining. It was good to be alive. He
opened the first letter. The sky was still blue, the sun still shining.

    "Dear Sir," (it ran).

    "We have been instructed by our client, Miss Maud Chilvers, of the
    Goat and Compasses, Aldershot, to institute proceedings against
    you for Breach of Promise of Marriage. In the event of your being
    desirous to avoid the expense and publicity of litigation, we are
    instructed to say that Miss Chilvers would be prepared to accept
    the sum of ten thousand pounds in settlement of her claim against
    you. We would further add that in support of her case our client
    has in her possession a number of letters written by yourself to
    her, all of which bear strong prima facie evidence of the alleged
    promise to marry: and she will be able in addition to call as
    witnesses in support of her case the Earl of Evenwood, Lady
    Kimbuck, and Lady Eva Blyton, in whose presence, at a recent
    date, you acknowledged that you had promised to marry our client.

    "Trusting that we hear from you in the course of post.
           We are, dear Sir,
                   Yours faithfully,
                            Harrison, Harrison, Harrison, & Harrison."