It was not, in his own conception, a "war against war" that he was waging;
it was simply a fight for freedom and for France.  Some of us may hope
and believe that, in after years, when he was at leisure
to view history in perspective and carry his psychology a little deeper,
he would have allowed, if not more potency, at any rate more adaptability,
to the human will.  In order to do so, it would not have been necessary
to abandon his fatalistic creed.  He would have seen, perhaps,
that even if we only will what we have to will, the factors which shape
the will--of the individual, the nation, or the race--are always changing,
and that it is not only possible but probable that the factors
which make for peace may one day gain the upper hand of those which
(for perfectly definite and tangible reasons) have hitherto made for war.
The fact remains, however, that he shouldered his knapsack
without any theoretic distaste for the soldier's calling.
In so far he was more happily situated than thousands who have made
all the better soldiers for their intense detestation of the stupidity of war.
But this in no way detracts from his loyalty to his personal ideal,
or from the high chivalry of his devotion to France.

The story of his life as a soldier shall be told, so far as possible,
in his own words.

After some brief preliminary training at Rouen he was sent to Toulouse.
Thence, on September 28, 1914, he wrote as follows:

==

                                             2me Regiment Etranger,
                                        Bataillon C., 1re. Cie, 3me Section.
                                             Toulouse, Sept. 28, 1914.

Dear Mother,

. . .  We have been putting in our time here at very hard drilling,
and are supposed to have learned in six weeks what the ordinary recruit,
in times of peace, takes all his two years at.  We rise at 5,
and work stops in the afternoon at 5.  A twelve hours day at one sou a day.
How different is conceptualized 9 and 6 + 3, does not exclude the identity:
this difference is relative to how intellectual and occurs not only in this
case, but in the perceptions of the simplest things, there is nothing we do
not conceive different points, and the concept of which we
can not decompose in various ways, and yet why it says
that the thing ceases to be simple and identical with itself. What
applies to an arithmetic equation, can be extended to
and algebraic geometry. If you have an equation in which the first member
is very simple, such as Z, and the very complicated, for example the
development of a series, is not to say that the first expression
equals the second, equal respect , not to the same expression but
with the above, the value that is designated with the letter:
this is true, the first thing would obviously false. Two circles that
have the same radius are equal. There appears to be just about
equal, because there are indeed two different objects that are
two circles, which can be plotted on paper or represented in the imagination:
but even here the distinction is real and yes only apparent, verifying
that the arithmetic and algebraic equations, and that there are
distinctions to diversity in the forms, and identity in the fund. Of
course you can tackle the main argument behind the
distinction, if it emerges that the circles that can be drawn or represented,
are merely forms of the idea, and not the idea itself.

Already been drawn and are represented, will have a certain magnitude
and a certain position at which the light or have to imagine: the
idea and the proposition that she is concerned, nothing of this;
it dispenses of all magnitudes in all positions, is spoken in a
general and absolute sense.

It is true that representations may be infinite, and in
the imagination and on the outside: but this, far from
proving their identity with the idea, indicating its diversity, because the
idea is unique, they are infinite, the idea is constant, These are
variables, the idea is independent of them, and they are dependent
on the idea, taking the character and the name as it circles
representing approximate what it contains.

What it is expressed in proposicion two circles having the same
radius, are equal?

The basic idea is that the value of the circle depends on the radio,
and the proposition here stated is nothing but an application
of that property to the case of equal radii. Then we perceive as different
circles, are only examples that we set in the interior
to make visible the truth of the application, but in
essence purely intellectual, is not more than the decomposition of the
very idea of the circle or its relationship with the radius applied
in the case of equality. There is no two circles in the purely ideal, one whose
properties are known under different concepts and different ways of expressing.
If all trials are identical or not assertion of identity, and all our
knowledge and begin a trial or go to him, it seems that all are
to be reduced to a mere perception of identity, then, our knowledge of
general formula is: A is A, or a thing is itself. This seems a bizarre
paradox, and is based on how they understood it, but if explained as due, may
be admitted as a truth, and indeed very simple. As stated in previous paragraphs,
can be columbrar the meaning of this opinion, but the importance of the
matter requires further clarification. CHAPTER XXVII. CONTINUED.
[269.] It is ridiculous to say that the knowledge of the most sublime mathematicians
have been reduced to this equation: A is A. This said absolutely,
it's not only wrong but contrary to common sense, but nor is it
contrary to common sense, nor is it false to say that knowledge of all
mathematicians are perceptions of identity, which have different concepts
presented in infinite variations in shape, which are fertile and
understanding science.

The Germans have been firing salvoes of four shots
over a little village where the French batteries are stationed,
shrapnel that burst in little puffs of white smoke; the French reply
with explosive shells that raise columns of dust over the German lines.
Half of our regiment have left already for the trenches.  We may go tonight.
We have made a march of about 75 kilometers in four days, and are now
on the front, ready to be called on at any moment.  I am feeling fine,
in my element, for I have always thirsted for this kind of thing,
to be present always where the pulsations are liveliest.  Every minute here
is worth weeks of ordinary experience.  How beautiful the view is here,
over the sunny vineyards!  And what a curious anomaly.
On this slope the grape pickers are singing merrily at their work,
on the other the batteries are roaring.  Boom!  Boom!

This will spoil one for any other kind of life.  The yellow afternoon sunlight
is sloping gloriously across this beautiful valley of Champagne.
Aeroplanes pass continually overhead on reconnaissance.  I must mail this now.
There is too much to be said and too little time to say it.
So glad to get your letter.  Love and lots of it to all.

                                                            Alan.

==

Alas! the hopes of swift, decisive action with which the Legion advanced
were destined to disappointment.  They soon settled down for the winter into
the monotonous hardships of trench warfare.  Alan described this experience
in admirably vivid letters published in the New York 'Sun',
from which a few extracts must suffice.  He writes on December 8,
during his fourth period of service in the trenches:

==

We left our camp in the woods before daybreak this morning,
and marched up the hill in single file, under the winter stars. . . .
Through openings in the woods we could see that we were marching
along a high ridge, and on either hand vaporous depths and distances expanded,
the darkness broken sometimes by a far light or the momentary glow
of a magnesium rocket sent up from the German lines.
There is something fascinating if one is stationed on sentry-duty
immediately after arrival, in watching the dawn slowly illumine
one of these new landscapes, from a position taken up under cover of darkness.
The other section has been relieved and departs.  We are given the 'consigne',
by the preceding sentinel, and are left alone behind a mound of dirt,
facing the north and the blank, perilous night.  Slowly the mystery
that it shrouds resolves as the grey light steals over the eastern hills.
Like a photograph in the washing, its high lights and shadows
come gradually forth.  The light splash in the foreground
becomes a ruined chateau, the grey street a demolished village.

The details come out on the hillside opposite, where the silent trenches
of the enemy are hidden a few hundred metres away.  We find ourselves
in a woody, mountainous country, with broad horizons and streaks of mist
in the valleys.  Our position is excellent this time, a high crest,
with open land sloping down from the trenches and plenty of barbed wire
strung along immediately in front.  It would be a hard task
to carry such a line, and there is not much danger that the enemy will try.

With increasing daylight the sentinel takes a sheltered position,
and surveys his new environment through little gaps where the mounds
have been crenellated and covered with branches.  Suddenly he starts
as a metallic bang rings out from the woods immediately behind him.
It is of the unmistakable voice of a French 75 starting the day's
artillery duel.  By the time the sentinel is relieved, in broad daylight,
the cannonade is general all along the line.  He surrenders his post
to a comrade, and crawls down into his bombproof dugout almost reluctantly,
for the long day of inactive waiting has commenced.

==

Though he never expresses even a momentary regret for the choice he has made,
he freely admits that trench warfare is "anything but romantic".
[264.] Evidence immediately seeks the truths that the
understanding reached with any clarity, and to sit with absolute
certainty the absence of any _medio_, as indeed the same name.

These truths are set forth in the proposals calls _per is notæ_,
first principles or axioms, which suffice to understand the meaning
of terms, to see that the predicate is contained in the idea of the
subject.

The propositions of this kind are few in all the sciences:
most of our knowledge is the result of reasoning, which is necessary
for evidence mediate. In geometry are very few proposals
have not explained but must be demonstrated, the body of science
with geometric colossal dimensions that it has today, has emanated from
reasoning: even in the most extensive axioms hold few pages, the rest is
composed of theorems, that is, propositions that are not self-evident
need demonstration.

The same occurs in all the sciences. [265.] As seen in the axioms understanding
the identity of the subject with the predicate, looking for insight to the
idea of this is contained in that, here comes a very
philosophical question serious, which can be very difficult and lead
to foreign disputes, if you're not careful to place it in its true
ground. All human knowledge is reduced to the mere perception of
identity? and their general formula, could be as follows: A is
A, either a thing is it?

Note by philosophers think so, others feel the opposite.

I believe there is some confusion on that of ideas, but rather on the state of
the matter not the substance itself. Leads many to successfully
resolve the form clear and accurate ideas of what is on
trial, and the relationship that he says or refuses. [266.] In
any trial there are perceptions of identity or identity seconds
is not so or negative.
We learn to read the score
& distinguish the instruments.  Near us are field batteries;
far away are siege guns.  Over all there is the unmistakable,
sharp, metallic twang of the French 75, the whistle of its shell
and the lesser report of its explosion.

==

And every now and then comes the bursting of a shell immediately overhead,
and the rattle of its fragments on the roof of the bomb-proof dug-out.
Think what it must have meant to this eager, ardent, pleasure-loving spirit
to sit out, day after day, in a chill, sodden, verminous trench,
a grand orchestral concert of this music of human madness!

The solitude of sentry-duty evidently comes to him as something of a relief.
"It may," he says, "be all that is melancholy if the night is bad
and the winter wind moans through the pines"; but it also
"brings moments of exaltation, if the cloud-banks roll back,
if the moonlight breaks over the windless hills, or the heavens blaze
with the beauty of the northern stars."

==

The sentinel has ample time for reflection.  Alone under the stars,
war in its cosmic rather than its moral aspect reveals itself to him. . . .
He thrills with the sense of filling an appointed, necessary place
in the conflict of hosts, and, facing the enemy's crest,
above which the Great Bear wheels upward to the zenith, he feels,
with a sublimity of enthusiasm that he has never before known,
a kind of companionship with the stars.

==

Six days in the trenches alternated with a three days' interval of rest
"either billeted in the stables and haylofts of the village or encamped
in the woods and around the chateau."  Thus the winter of 1914-15 wore away,
with little to break its monotony.  The heaviest fighting
was all to the northward.  One gathers from his poem "The Aisne"
that at Craonne he took part in the repulse of a serious enemy attack;
but there is no mention of this in the letters before me.

On March 12, 1915, he writes to his mother in fierce indignation
over something that has appeared in an American paper as to life
in the Foreign Legion.  The writer of the "disgraceful article", he says,
"like many others of his type, was long ago eliminated from our ranks,
for a person buoyed up by no noble purpose is the first to succumb
to the hardships of the winter that we have been through. . . .
If his lies did nothing worse than belittle his comrades,
who are here for motives that he is unable to conceive,
it would be only dishonourable.  But when it comes to throwing discredit
on the French Government, that in all its treatment of us
has been generous beyond anything that one would think possible,
it is too shameful for any words to characterize."

With the coming of spring, there was of course some mitigation of the trials
of the winter.  Here is an almost idyllic passage from a letter to his sister,
written on the fly-leaves of 'Les Confessions de J. J. Rousseau',
Geneve, MDCCLXXXII:

==

We put in a very pleasant week here--nine hours of guard at night
in our outposts up on the hillside; in the daytime sleep, or foraging
in the ruined villages, loafing in the pretty garden of the chateau,
or reading up in the library.  We have cleaned this up now,
and it is an altogether curious sensation to recline here in an easy-chair,
reading some fine old book, and just taking the precaution
not to stay in front of the glassless windows through which
the sharpshooters can snipe at you from their posts in the thickets
on the slopes of the plateau, not six hundred metres away.
Sometimes our artillery opens up and then you lay down your book for a while,
and, looking through a peek-hole, watch the 75's and 120's
throw up fountains of dirt and debris all along the line
of the enemy's trenches.

==

"Spring has come here at last," so the letter closes, "and we are having
beautiful weather.  I am going in swimming in the Aisne this afternoon
for the first time.  In fine health and spirits."

During the summer, the Legion was moved about a good deal
from sector to sector, and Alan often found himself in pleasant places,
and got a good deal of positive enjoyment out of his life.
On June 18, 1915, he wrote to his mother:

==

You must not be anxious about my not coming back.  The chances are
about ten to one that I will.  But if I should not, you must be proud,
like a Spartan mother, and feel that it is your contribution
to the triumph of the cause whose righteousness you feel so keenly.
Everybody should take part in this struggle which is to have
so decisive an effect, not only on the nations engaged but on all humanity.
There should be no neutrals, but everyone should bear some part of the burden.
If so large a part should fall to your share, you would be in so far
superior to other women and should be correspondingly proud.
There would be nothing to regret, for I could not have done otherwise
than I did, and I think I could not have done better.
Death is nothing terrible after all.  It may mean something
even more wonderful than life.  It cannot possibly mean anything worse
to the good soldier.

==

The same note recurs in a letter of two weeks later (July 3):

==

Whether I am on the winning or losing side is not the point with me:
it is being on the side where my sympathies lie that matters,
and I am ready to see it through to the end.  At the moment A,
I have no other subjective presence of my actions, that the
act itself at that moment I'm putting, then I can sure have had previous,
but as represented in the current idea, then there is a link
between it and its purpose.

Then simply sticking to the phenomena of consciousness, the simple
awareness _yo_, we found that indeclinable ideas need to attach a
target value to the trials an objective truth. [255.]

Without this objective truth is impossible to remember
everything Indeed, even the internal phenomena, and therefore, any reason,
any view, any thought. The memory of past events: when they
are no longer remember, because if they were, there would be remembrance
for them, but awareness of present. While in the act of
remembering we have other events like these are not the same, because
the idea always remember the time goes past. Then, they can not have more
certainty that the link they have with this act, by its correspondence
with the idea that we are offered. [256.]

He said that lack the certainty of objective truth in the
phenomena inside it was impossible any reason.

Indeed, all reasoning is an _sucesion_ acts: when the one there in
spirit, and the other does not exist, then there is continuing need
for small memories, so that the chain does not break is that there
is no reason this chain and without memory there is no such chain,
and there is no objective truth without some memory, then there is
no objective truth intellect. [257.]

We all trials seem impossible. These are of two kinds: those who do not
need to shop, or those in need. Those who require demonstration will
be impossible because there is no reason demo, and this would be
impossible in this case too. As for those who have not needed immediately
because they shine with evidence, would not be all that did not
refer to this act of the soul, in the same instant that the release
view.

Then there would be no more believe that this act, ie the consciousness
of time unrelated to any of the above.

But it is curious that even with respect to acts of conscience,
this trial would be nothing short of impossible, because even though
the verdict on the act of conscience, not with this, but with a
reflex: This reflex involves succession: and future is not known
with certainty whether there is objective truth.

It is highly doubtful that even possible trials were immediately
apparent.

They, as explained in the previous section, involving the relationship of the
concepts that have been partially decomposed total: how it breaks down
without succession? If there are succession remember, if there is no immediate
recall of remembered what it is therefore necessary objectivity
representative of the idea regarding the thing remembered. [258.] Such a scare,
but they are derogable: If you remove the truth objective,
reasoned thought everything disappears.

This holds some continuity for various acts of moments: if this
continuity is broken, the human mind is no longer what it is: no
longer exist as _razon_ is a series of acts with no connection of
any kind and that can lead to anything.

In this case, any expression, every word: nothing is a safe
bet: everything falls well within the intellectual and
moral order in the material, and the man left without
even the consolation of self-possessed; fades in their own hands
which vain shadow. [259.] The sensations may also exist
as a disjointed series, but there will be no recall some of them
because lack objective truth: the feelings and past exist only as
past, and therefore as mere objects .

Any intellectual reflection on it will be impossible, because the
reflection is not the feeling: this is an object of that, but not
herself.

So tough is the same feeling that the philosopher, but
not thinking about it. Thousand times without thinking we feel sorry.
Sensitive conscience, is very different from the intellectual: the
first is the simple presence of the feeling, the same feeling: the second is
the act of understanding which addresses the feeling. [260.] This distinction
is also found in all acts purely intellectual: reflections on
the act is not the act itself. The other one is not identified,
since they often are separated, if there were no objective truth
as the reflection would be impossible. [261.] It is also difficult to
understand how can any serious act of consciousness of self, even present.
We already saw _yo_ disappears, breaking into the series of the memories,
but there is also no objective truth that you can not even conceive _yo_ for
a moment.
For now our advanced troops
were in contact with the German second-line defenses,
and these proved to be of a character so formidable
that all further advance without a preliminary artillery preparation
was out of the question.  And our role, that of troops in reserve,
was to lie passive in an open field under a shell fire that every hour
became more terrific, while aeroplanes and captive balloons,
to which we were entirely exposed, regulated the fire.

That night we spent in the rain.  With portable picks and shovels
each man dug himself in as well as possible.  The next day
our concentrated artillery again began the bombardment,
and again the fusillade announced the entrance of the infantry into action.
But this time only the wounded appeared coming back, no prisoners.
I went out and gave water to one of these, eager to get news.
It was a young soldier, wounded in the hand.  His face and voice
bespoke the emotion of the experience he had been through,
in a way that I will never forget.  "Ah, les salauds!" he cried,
"They let us come right up to the barbed wire without firing.  Then a hail
of grenades and balls.  My comrade fell, shot through the leg, got up,
and the next moment had his head taken off by a grenade before my eyes."
"And the barbed wire, wasn't it cut down by the bombardment?"
"Not at all in front of us."  I congratulated him on having
a 'blessure heureuse' and being well out of the affair.
But he thought only of his comrade and went on down the road toward Souain
nursing his mangled hand, with the stream of wounded
seeking their 'postes de secours'.

==

He then tells how, in spite of substantial gains, it gradually
"became more and more evident that the German second line of defence
presented obstacles too serious to attempt overcoming for the moment,
and we began going up at night to work at consolidating our advanced trenches
and turning them into a new permanent line."  To this time, perhaps,
belongs the incident related by Rif Baer, an Egyptian,
who was his comrade and best friend in the regiment.
A piece of difficult trench work was allotted to the men,
to be finished in one night.  "Each was given the limit,
that he was supposed to be able to complete in the time.
It happened that Rif Baer was ill, and, after working a while,
his strength gave out.  Alan completed his own job and R. B.'s also,
and although he was quite exhausted by the extra labour,
his eyes glowed with happiness, and he said he had never done
anything in his life that gave him such entire satisfaction."

Summing up the results of the battle, Alan wrote (still in the same letter,
October 25):  "It was a satisfaction at least to get out of the trenches,
to meet the enemy face to face and to see German arrogance
turned into suppliance.  We knew many splendid moments,
worth having endured many trials for.  But in our larger aim,
of piercing their line, of breaking the long deadlock,
of entering Vouziers in triumph, of course we failed."  Then he proceeds:

==

This affair only deepened my admiration for, my loyalty to, the French.
If we did not entirely succeed, it was not the fault of the French soldier.
He is a better man, man for man, than the German.  Also, if support for
the truth of feeling appeal to the principles of reasoning,
and out of the realm of feelings, and I do not doubt the
truth of these primitive origins of the others, not doing what
they had offered. [63.] In what is that: 1. º that is not an
original feeling of certainty of the others, so I contented with out
here, to try to prove reserving sensations 2. ° sensation even
if there is not enough found nothing in the intellectual order, since the
only feelings you can not even think, 3. º sensations that far from
being the science of transcendental basa not serve by themselves to
establish any science, because they because contingent facts can
not derive the necessary truths (V).Whatever be the force in international conflicts of having justice
and all the principles of personal morality on one's side, it at least
gives the French soldier a strength that's like the strength of ten
against an adversary whose weapon is only brute violence.
It is inconceivable that a Frenchman, forced to yield,
could behave as I saw German prisoners behave, trembling, on their knees,
for all the world like criminals at length overpowered and brought to justice.
Such men have to be driven to the assault, or intoxicated.
But the Frenchman who goes up is possessed with a passion
beside which any of the other forms of experience that are reckoned
to make life worth while seem pale in comparison.

==

A report appeared in the American newspapers that he had been killed
in the battle of Champagne.  What is essential at the beginning of contradiction, is the exclusion
of the not be and not for being.

The formula should reflect this fact, this truth that we are given
evidence that it is immediately covered by the understanding with
a clear intuition that certainly does not consent or darkness of
any kind.

_ser_ The verb can be taken two ways: substantively,
as means the existence, and copulation, as is the relation of
a predicate to a subject.
On February 1st he writes:  "I am in hospital
for the first time, not for a wound, unfortunately, but for sickness."
Hitherto his health, since he joined the army, had been superb.
As a youth he had never been robust; but the soldier's life
suited him to perfection, and all remnants of any mischief left behind
by the illness of his childhood seemed to have vanished.
It was now a sharp attack of bronchitis that sent him to hospital.
On his recovery he obtained two months 'conge de convalescence',
part of which he spent at Biarritz and part in Paris.  About this time,
much to his satisfaction, he once more came into the possession
of "Juvenilia".  We know how important is the philosophy of scholastic materials and
forms, and this distinction is also applicable to the phenomena of
intelligence.

Although the idea was viewed as something other than the understanding,
however as this was developed by and in conjunction with the thing
represented, they said that the understanding was the same thing
understood.

This should explain the passages that are located on St. Thomas and
other scholastics; Although the expressions of that use, taken in isolation,
it would be inaccurate, if they are not attending to the meaning
attributed to them and it is clear from the beginning they are based.

Weeks:  "The chateau
in the grounds of which we are barracked, has a most beautiful name --
Bellinglise.  Isn't it pretty?  I shall have to write a sonnet to enclose it,
as a ring is made express for a jewel.  It is a wonderful
old seventeenth-century manor, surrounded by a lordly estate.
What is that exquisite stanza in 'Maud' about 'in the evening
through the lilacs (or laurels) of the old manorial home'?*
Look it up and send it to me."  Ten days later he wrote to the same lady:

--

* He was doubtless thinking of this:

    Alas for her that met me,
    That heard me softly call,
    Came glimmering thro' the laurels
    In the quiet evenfall,
    In the garden by the turrets
    Of the old manorial hall.

--

==

The week in the trenches was a week of the most beautiful weather. . . .
These days were saddened by the death of poor Colette in the bombardment,
and by the suffering of his brother who has now returned after the burial.
They were marked on the other hand by two afternoons of rather
memorable emotion.  Transcendental science, and explains that embraces
all, is a dream for our spirit while living on earth,
but it is a reality for other spirits of a higher order, and it
will be for ours when detached from the mortal body, he reached
the regions of light. [44.] As we can guess by analogy, we
have evidence that there is indeed such a science that holds
all important and that in turn merges into a single principle, or rather,
one idea in a single intuition. Noting the scale of beings,
in which grades are distributed individual intelligences,
and the future progress of science, we are presented with the image
of this truth in a very remarkable.
Yesterday afternoon I repeated this exploit,
following another trail, and I went so far that I came clear up
to the German barbed wire, where I left a card with my name.
It was very thrilling work, "courting destruction with taunts,
with invitations" as Whitman would say.  I have never been
in a sector like this, where patrols could be made in daylight.
Here the deep forest permits it.  It also greatly facilitates ambushes,
for one must keep to the paths, owing to the underbrush.
I and a few others are going to try to get permission
to go out on 'patrouilles d'embuscade' and bring in some live prisoners.
It would be quite an extraordinary feat if we could pull it off.
In our present existence it is the only way I can think of
to get the Croix de Guerre.  Expliquémoslo with some examples.
There is no doubt that men of common objective sensations to the
point of moving to the outside as they feel, without distinguishing
between what is subjective and objective.

The colors, the human race believes in the things themselves, for
he is not feeling green as green, but some thing, quality or whatever
you want to call, inherent to the object.

Is this true? certainly not in the external object is the cause
of sensation, there is the willingness of the parties
to produce by means of light that we call _verde_ printing. Common
sense is deceiving us, because the philosophical analysis convinces him
fallacious. But has all the conditions above? no. For one thing it lacks
the ability to undergo the test of reason, so then as we reflect on
this matter, we discover that there are here as innocent as a beautiful
illusion. We also lack the irresistible ascent of the condition, because
from the moment we believe that there is hope, the approval ceases
to exist. It is not the universal assent because you are not
philosophers. It is not necessary to satisfy any need for life
and therefore does not have any of the above. What has been
said of the hearing can be applied to all the feelings, to what extent
is valid because the testimony of common sense in us to objectify feeling?
Here it.
His hopes of getting to Paris were frustrated, as were all his other hopes
save one--the hope of

    That rare privilege of dying well.

On July 1st, the great advance began.  At six in the evening of July 4th,
the Legion was ordered to clear the enemy out of the village
of Belloy-en-Santerre.  Alan Seeger advanced in the first rush,
and his squad was enfiladed by the fire of six German machine guns,
concealed in a hollow way.  Most of them went down, and Alan among them --
wounded in several places.  But the following waves of attack
were more fortunate.  As his comrades came up to him,
Alan cheered them on; and as they left him behind,
they heard him singing a marching-song in English: --

    Accents of ours were in the fierce melee.

They took the village, they drove the invaders out;
but for some reason unknown--perhaps a very good one --
the battlefield was left unvisited that night.  Next morning,
Alan Seeger lay dead.

There is little to add.  He wrote his own best epitaph in the "Ode": --

    And on those furthest rims of hallowed ground
    Where the forlorn, the gallant charge expires,
    When the slain bugler has long ceased to sound,
    And on the tangled wires
    The last wild rally staggers, crumbles, stops,
    Withered beneath the shrapnel's iron showers: --
    Now heaven be thanked, we gave a few brave drops,
    Now heaven be thanked, a few brave drops were ours.

