Now, as regards his theory of the necessity of the historian's being
contemporary with the events he describes, so far as the historian is a
mere narrator the remark is undoubtedly true.  But to appreciate the
harmony and rational position of the facts of a great epoch, to discover
its laws, the causes which produced it and the effects which it
generates, the scene must be viewed from a certain height and distance to
be completely apprehended.  A thoroughly contemporary historian such as
Lord Clarendon or Thucydides is in reality part of the history he
criticises; and, in the case of such contemporary historians as Fabius
and Philistus, Polybius is compelled to acknowledge that they are misled
by patriotic and other considerations.  Against Polybius himself no such
accusation can be made.  He indeed of all men is able, as from some lofty
tower, to discern the whole tendency of the ancient world, the triumph of
Roman institutions and of Greek thought which is the last message of the
old world and, in a more spiritual sense, has become the Gospel of the
new.

One thing indeed he did not see, or if he saw it, he thought but little
of it--how from the East there was spreading over the world, as a wave
spreads, a spiritual inroad of new religions from the time when the
Pessinuntine mother of the gods, a shapeless mass of stone, was brought
to the eternal city by her holiest citizen, to the day when the ship
Castor and Pollux stood in at Puteoli, and St. Paul turned his face
towards martyrdom and victory at Rome.  Polybius was able to predict,
from his knowledge of the causes of revolutions and the tendencies of the
various forms of governments, the uprising of that democratic tone of
thought which, as soon as a seed is sown in the murder of the Gracchi and
the exile of Marius, culminated as all democratic movements do culminate,
in the supreme authority of one man, the lordship of the world under the
world's rightful lord, Caius Julius Caesar.  This, indeed, he saw in no
uncertain way.  But the turning of all men's hearts to the East, the
first glimmering of that splendid dawn which broke over the hills of
Galilee and flooded the earth like wine, was hidden from his eyes.

There are many points in the description of the ideal historian which one
may compare to the picture which Plato has given us of the ideal
philosopher.  They are both 'spectators of all time and all existence.'
Nothing is contemptible in their eyes, for all things have a meaning, and
they both walk in august reasonableness before all men, conscious of the
workings of God yet free from all terror of mendicant priest or vagrant
miracle-worker.  But the parallel ends here.  For the one stands aloof
from the world-storm of sleet and hail, his eyes fixed on distant and
sunlit heights, loving knowledge for the sake of knowledge and wisdom for
the joy of wisdom, while the other is an eager actor in the world ever
seeking to apply his knowledge to useful things.  Both equally desire
truth, but the one because of its utility, the other for its beauty.  The
historian regards it as the rational principle of all true history, and
no more.  To the other it comes as an all-pervading and mystic
enthusiasm, 'like the desire of strong wine, the craving of ambition, the
passionate love of what is beautiful.'

Still, though we miss in the historian those higher and more spiritual
qualities which the philosopher of the Academe alone of all men
possessed, we must not blind ourselves to the merits of that great
rationalist who seems to have anticipated the very latest words of modern
science.  Nor yet is he to be regarded merely in the narrow light in
which he is estimated by most modern critics, as the explicit champion of
rationalism and nothing more.  For he is connected with another idea, the
course of which is as the course of that great river of his native
Arcadia which, springing from some arid and sun-bleached rock, gathers
strength and beauty as it flows till it reaches the asphodel meadows of
Olympia and the light and laughter of Ionian waters.

For in him we can discern the first notes of that great cult of the seven-
hilled city which made Virgil write his epic and Livy his history, which
found in Dante its highest exponent, which dreamed of an Empire where the
Emperor would care for the bodies and the Pope for the souls of men, and
so has passed into the conception of God's spiritual empire and the
universal brotherhood of man and widened into the huge ocean of universal
thought as the Peneus loses itself in the sea.

Polybius is the last scientific historian of Greece.  The writer who
seems fittingly to complete the progress of thought is a writer of
biographies only.  I will not here touch on Plutarch's employment of the
inductive method as shown in his constant use of inscription and statue,
of public document and building and the like, because they involve no new
method.  It is his attitude towards miracles of which I desire to treat.

Plutarch is philosophic enough to see that in the sense of a violation of
the laws of nature a miracle is impossible.  It is absurd, he says, to
imagine that the statue of a saint can speak, and that an inanimate
object not possessing the vocal organs should be able to utter an
articulate sound.  Upon the other hand, he protests against science
imagining that, by explaining the natural causes of things, it has
explained away their transcendental meaning.  'When the tears on the
cheek of some holy statue have been analysed into the moisture which
certain temperatures produce on wood and marble, it yet by no means
follows that they were not a sign of grief and mourning set there by God
Himself.'  When Lampon saw in the prodigy of the one-horned ram the omen
of the supreme rule of Pericles, and when Anaxagoras showed that the
abnormal development was the rational resultant of the peculiar formation
of the skull, the dreamer and the man of science were both right; it was
the business of the latter to consider how the prodigy came about, of the
former to show why it was so formed and what it so portended.  The
progression of thought is exemplified in all particulars.  Herodotus had
a glimmering sense of the impossibility of a violation of nature.
Thucydides ignored the supernatural.  Polybius rationalised it.  Plutarch
raises it to its mystical heights again, though he bases it on law.  In a
word, Plutarch felt that while science brings the supernatural down to
the natural, yet ultimately all that is natural is really supernatural.
To him, as to many of our own day, religion was that transcendental
attitude of the mind which, contemplating a world resting on inviolable
law, is yet comforted and seeks to worship God not in the violation but
in the fulfilment of nature.

It may seem paradoxical to quote in connection with the priest of
Chaeronea such a pure rationalist as Mr. Herbert Spencer; yet when we
read as the last message of modern science that 'when the equation of
life has been reduced to its lowest terms the symbols are symbols still,'
mere signs, that is, of that unknown reality which underlies all matter
and all spirit, we may feel how over the wide strait of centuries thought
calls to thought and how Plutarch has a higher position than is usually
claimed for him in the progress of the Greek intellect.

