 The former terrorist, Savinkof, took part in
Korniloff's conspiracy, was in touching unanimity with the
counter-revolutionary circles of Cossack officers and was preparing an
onslaught on Petrograd workingmen and soldiers, among whom there were
quite a few left S. R.'s. As a sacrifice to the left wing, the Center
expelled Savinkof from the party, but hesitated to raise a hand against
Kerensky. In the Pre-Parliament, the party showed signs of extreme
disruption: three groups existed independently, though under the banner
of one and the same party, but none of the groups knew exactly what it
wanted. The formal domination of this "party" in the Constituent
Assembly would have meant only a continuation of political prostration.


WITHDRAWING FROM THE PRE-PARLIAMENT. THE VOICE OF THE FRONT

Before withdrawing from the membership in the Pre-Parliament where,
according to Kerensky's and Tseretelli's political statistics, we were
entitled to some half a hundred seats, we arranged a conference with the
left S. R. group. They refused to follow us, claiming that they still
had to demonstrate practically before the peasantry the insolvency of
the Pre-Parliament. Said one of the leaders of the left S. R.'s:

"We deem it necessary to warn you that if you want to withdraw from the
Pre-Parliament in order forthwith to go into the streets for an open
fight, we shall not follow you."

The bourgeois-fusionist press accused us of striving to kill prematurely
the Pre-Parliament, for the very purpose of creating a revolutionary
situation. At our faction meeting in the Pre-Parliament, it was decided
to act independently and not wait for the left S. R.'s. Our party's
declaration, proclaimed from the Pre-Parliament rostrum and explaining
why we were breaking with this institution, was greeted with a howl of
hatred and impotence on the part of the majority groups. In the
Petrograd Soviet of Deputies, where our withdrawal from the
Pre-Parliament was approved by an overwhelming majority, the leader of
the tiny "internationalist" Menshevik group, Martof, explained to us
that the withdrawal from the temporary Soviet of the Republic (such was
the official appellation of this little-respected institution) would be
sensible only in case we proposed immediately to assume an open
offensive. But the point is that this is just what we intended. The
prosecutors for the liberal bourgeoisie were right, when accusing us of
striving to create a revolutionary situation. In open insurrection and
direct seizure of power we beheld the only way out of the situation.

Again, as in the July days, the press and all the other organs of
so-called public opinion were mobilized against us. From the July
arsenals were dragged forth the most envenomed weapons which had been
temporarily stored away there after the Korniloff days. Vain efforts!
The mass was irresistibly moving toward us, and its spirit was rising
hour by hour. From the trenches delegates kept arriving. "How long,"
said they, at the Petrograd Soviet meetings, "will this impossible
situation last? The soldiers have told us to declare to you: if no
decisive steps for peace are made by November 1st, the trenches will be
deserted, the entire army will rush to the rear!" This determination was
really spreading at the front. There the soldiers were passing on, from
one unit to another, home-made proclamations, summoning them not to
remain in the trenches later than the first snowfall. --Oh! do
not slay it!
Let me my arms around it throw!'
Thus nature's impulse bursting forth, Reveals the mother's kindred blood,
And stamps upon her claim the truth:
Whilst foil'd the guilty claimant stood.

Such love breathes not in courts, where meet Soft, studied ease and pamper'd
vice:
As soon you'll find the genial heat Of nature's sun in fields
of ice!

And that fond soul was one like she Who bathed the Saviour's feet with
tears:
And hers, like Mary's ecstasy, Flows from the influence of
prayers:
For, Solomon had sought of God Not hoards of wealth, nor "length
of days:" But holy unction from His rod, The bright indwelling of
Truth's rays.

A VIEW FROM MOUNT CARMEL.

And Elijah went up to the top of Carmel; and he cast himself down upon
the earth, and put his face between his knees. And said to his servant,
'Go up now, look towards the sea.' And he went up, and looked, and said,
'There is nothing.' And he said, Go again seven times. And it came to
pass at the seventh time, that he said, behold, there ariseth a little
cloud out of the sea, like a man's hand.

--I Kings 18:42,41.

Up Carmel's wood-clad height an aged prophet slowly creeps, And
sadly drags his weary limbs o'er rocks and mossgrown steeps.
He bows himself upon the earth, "his face between his knees," And thus
he to his servant speaks, beneath the lofty trees.

"Go further up this craggy steep, and seaward look, I pray--" His
faithful servant goes, and strains his vision towards that way, But says
"there's nothing."--"Go sev'n times," the prophet says "for me,--" And
on the seventh time, behold! arising from the sea,
A little cloud, as 'twere, no bigger than a human hand,-- But swiftly,
darkly spreading o'er the parched, thirsty land, It widely displays its
threatening armies thro' the sky, Its lurid lightnings flash in forked
streaks upon the eye.

Like countless fiery serpents thro' the troubled air, Whilst loud the
roaring thunder bursts amid the flaming glare; And rage the winds,
uprooting mountain oaks before the view,-- Refreshing show'rs
descend, and quick the fainting earth renew.

Scarcely could Israel's monarch in his chariot reach his court,
Ere nature's pent up elements broke forth in airy sport, And to earth
(which for three long years had known nor rain nor dew,) The long
desired drops, their welcome downward course pursue.

Once more Samaria's people gladly tune their harps and sing The praises
of Jehovah, God, the everlasting King:-- Once more, the voice of
gladness sounds where naught but anguish dwelt; There, once
again, the gush of rapture, absent long, is felt!

MRS. ALICE COALE SIMPERS.

Mrs. Alice Coale Simpers was born in the old brick mansion known
as "Traveler's Repose," a short distance south of Harrisville, in
the Sixth district of Cecil county, on the first day of December,
1843.
The Coale family of which Mrs. Simpers is a member, trace their
descent from Sir Philip Blodgett, a distinguished Englishman, who
settled in Baltimore shortly after its foundation, and are related
to the Matthews, Worthingtons, Jewetts, and other leading families
of Harford county. On her mother's side she is related to the
Jacksons, Puseys, and other well-known Friends of Chester county,
Pennsylvania, and Wilmington, Delaware.
Mrs. Simpers' early education was received at Waring's Friends'
School, near the village of Colora, which was kept up by a few
families of Friends in the neighborhood. She also attended the State
Normal School in Baltimore, and qualified herself for teaching in
the public schools of the State, in which she taught for about ten
years in Cecil county, and also in Dorchester county. She also
taught school in the State of Illinois with great acceptability and
success.Even prior to that, regiments of the Petrograd garrison had their
commissioners, but these had been appointed by the Central Executive
Committee. Above, we said that after the June Congress of Soviets, and
particularly after the June 18th demonstration which revealed the ever
growing power of the Bolsheviks, the fusionist parties had almost
entirely deprived the Petrograd Soviet of any practical influence on the
course of events in the revolutionary capital. The leadership of the
Petrograd garrison was concentrated in the hands of the Central
Executive Committee. Now the task everywhere was to put in the Petrograd
Soviet's Commissioners. This was achieved with the most energetic
cooperation of the soldier masses. Meetings, addressed by speakers of
various parties, had the result, invariably, that regiment after
regiment declared it would recognize only the Petrograd Soviet's
Commissioners and would not budge a step without its decision.

An important role in appointing these Commissioners was played by the
Bolsheviks' military organization. Before the July days it had developed
a widespread agitational activity. On July 5th, a battalion of cyclists,
brought by Kerensky to Petrograd, battered down the isolated Kshessinsky
mansion where our party's military organization was quartered. The
majority of leaders, and many privates among the members were arrested,
the publications were stopped, the printing shop was wrecked. Only by
degrees did the organization begin to repair its machinery afresh,
conspiratively this time. Numerically it comprised in its ranks but a
very insignificant part of the Petrograd garrison, a few hundred men all
told. But there were among them many soldiers and young officers,
chiefly ensigns, resolute, and with heart and soul devoted to the
Revolution, who had passed through Kerensky's prisons in July and
August. All of them had placed themselves at the Military Revolutionary
Committee's disposal and were being assigned to the most responsible
fighting posts.

However, it would not be superfluous to remark that precisely the
members of our party's military organization assumed in October an
attitude of extraordinary caution and even some skepticism toward the
idea of an immediate insurrection. The closed character of the
organization and its officially military character involuntarily
inclined its leaders to underestimate the purely technical and
organizational resources of the uprising, and from this point of view we
were undoubtedly weak. Our strength lay in the revolutionary enthusiasm
of the masses and their readiness to fight under our banner.

Parallel with the organizing activity a stormy agitation was being
carried on. This was the period of incessant meetings at works, in the
"Modern" and "Chinizelli" circuses, at clubs, in barracks. The
atmosphere at all the meetings was charged with electricity. Each
mention of the insurrection was greeted with a storm of plaudits and
shouts of delight. The bourgeois press merely increased the state of
universal panic. An order issued over my signature to the Syestroyetsk
munitions factory to issue five thousand rifles to the Red Guard evoked
an indescribable panic in bourgeois circles. "The general massacre" in
course of preparation was talked and written about everywhere. Of
course, this did not in the least prevent the workingmen of the
Syestroyetsk munitions factory from handing the arms over to the Red
Guards. The more frantically the bourgeois press slandered and baited
us, the more ardently the masses responded to our call. It was growing
clearer and clearer for both sides that the crisis must break within the
next few days. The press of the S. R.'s and Mensheviks was sounding an
alarm. "The Revolution is in the greatest danger. A repetition of the
July days is being prepared--but on a much wider basis and therefore
still more destructive in its consequences." In his Novaya Zhizn,
Gorki daily prophesied the approaching wreck of all civilization. In
general, the Socialistic veneer of the bourgeois intellectuals was
wearing off at the approach of the stern domination of the workers'
dictatorship. But, on the other hand, the soldiers of even the most
backward regiments hailed with delight the Military Revolutionary
Committee's commissioners. Delegates came to us from Cossack units and
from the Socialist minority of military cadets. They promised at least
to assure the neutrality of their units in case of open conflict.
Manifestly Kerensky's government was losing its foundations.

The District Staff began negotiations with us and proposed a compromise.
In order to size up the enemy's full resistance, we entered into
pourparlers. But the Staff was nervous; now they exhorted, then
threatened us, they even declared our commissioners to be without power,
which, however, did not in the least affect their work. In accord with
the Staff, the Central Executive Committee appointed Captain of Staff
Malefski to be Chief Commissioner for the Petrograd Military District
and magnanimously consented to recognize our commissioners, on condition
of their being subordinate to the Chief Commissioner. Old man, away!
seek not to enter here:
We feed none such as you: so hence! I say:-- Perhaps across the street
you'll better fare.'

In broken accents now the pilgrim plead-- 'Friend, I have journeyed
far; from lands abroad; And bear a message from the absent dead,
To one who dwells in this august abode.

Thy mistress,--fair Beatrice,--dwells she here?
If so, quick, bring me to her instantly; For I have speech that fits her
private ear Forthwith: none else my words shall hear but she.'
Now, ushered thro' the spacious hall, he passed Into a gorgeous
room, where sat alone, Beatrice fair; who, on the pilgrim cast Inquiring
looks, and scarce suppressed a groan.
'Be seated, aged father;' thus she said:
'And tell me whence you are, and why you seek A private conf'rence
with a lonely maid Whose sorrows chase the color from her cheek.

'If true it is, from distant lands you come, Mayhap from Palestine you
wend your way; If so, be silent, be forever dumb, Or else, in
joyful accents, quickly say, That all is well with one most dear to
me, Who, two long years ago, forsook his home, And now forgets his
vows of constancy, For bloody wars in distant lands to roam.'
As if to dash a tear, he bends his head, And sighing, thus the weary
pilgrim speaks:
'Alas! my words are few,--thy friend is dead!'-- As monumental marble pale,
she shrieks, And falls into the aged pilgrim's arms; Who, justly filled
with terror and dismay, In speechless wonder, gazed upon her charms,
As, inwardly he seemed to curse the day.

But, slowly she revives--when, quick as light, His cloak and wig are
instantly thrown by-- And what is that that greets her 'wildered
sight?
Ah! whose fond gaze now meets her longing eye?-- Her own dear Alfred,
from the wars returned, Had chosen thus to steal upon his love:-- And
whilst his kisses on her cheek now burned, He vow'd to her, he never
more would rove.

THOUGHTS,
ON THE DEATH OF MY GRANDCHILD FANNY.

And all wept and bewailed her: but He said, weep not; she is not dead,
but sleepeth.

--Luke 8:52.

Oh true, "she is not dead, but sleepeth--" Her dust alone is here; The
spirit pure that Heavenward leapeth, Hath gone to bliss fore'er.

'Twas but a fragile flower that lent Its sweets to earth a day; From
Heaven's parterre 'twas kindly sent, But 'twas not here to stay.

Weep not, fond mother, that lost one; 'Tis clasped in angel's arms--
From earth's dread trials passed and gone, 'Tis decked in seraph's
charms.
See how it beckons thee to come, And taste its rapture there;-- No
longer linger o'er that tomb-- To join it let's prepare.
THE DECREE.
And the king said, bring me a sword. And they brought a sword before
the king. And the king said, divide the living child in two, and
give half to the one, and half to the other. Then spake the woman
whose the living child was unto the king, for her bowels yearned
upon her son, and she said, O my lord give her the living child,
and in no wise slay it.

--I Kings 3:24-36.
Hark! did you not hear that loud shriek?
Ah! do you not see that wild eye?
List--do you hear that mother speak For her son that is doom'd to
die?

Behold the eloquence of love!
A mother for her child distress'd:
A gush of feeling from above Invades and fills her yearning
breast.
That flood of tears,--those wringing hands, Mark her abandonment
of soul, As, list'ning to the king's commands, Her grief refuses
all control.They
were addressed by speakers of our party, by delegates arriving for the
Soviet Congress, by representatives from the front, by left S.R.'s and
by Anarchists. Public buildings were flooded by waves of working-men,
soldiers and sailors. There had not been many gatherings like that even
in the time of the Revolution. Up rose a considerable mass of the petty
townfolk, less frightened than aroused by the shouts, warnings and
baiting of the bourgeois press. Waves of people by tens of thousands
dashed against the People's House building, rolled through the
corridors, filled the halls. On the iron columns huge garlands of human
heads, feet and hands were hanging like bunches of grapes. The air was
surcharged with the electric tension that heralds the most critical
moments of revolution. "Down with Kerensky's government! Down with the
war! All power to the Soviets!" Not one from the ranks of the previous
Soviet parties ventured to appear before those colossal throngs with a
word of reply. The Petrograd Soviet held undivided sway. In reality the
campaign had already been won. It only remained to deal the last
military blow to this spectral authority.

The most cautious in our midst were reporting that there still remained
units that were not with us: the cossacks, the cavalry regiment, the
Semyonofski regiment, the cyclists. Commissioners and agitators were
assigned to these units. Their reports sounded perfectly satisfactory:
the red-hot atmosphere was infecting one and all, and the most
conservative elements of the army were losing the strength to withstand
the general tendency of the Petrograd garrison. In the Semyonofski
regiment, which was considered the bulwark of Kerensky's government, I
was present at a meeting which took place in the open air. The most
prominent speakers of the right wing addressed it. They clung to the
conservative guard regiments as to the last support of the coalition
power. Nothing would avail. By an overwhelming majority of votes, the
regiment expressed itself for us and did not even give the ex-ministers
a chance to finish their speeches. The groups which still opposed the
Soviet watch-words were made up mainly of officers, volunteers and
generally of bourgeois intellectuals and semi-intellectuals. The masses
of peasants and workmen were with us one and all. The demarcation ran as
a distinct social line.

