Produced by Bob Jones, Frank van Drogen, Thomas Hutchinson and the
PG Online Distributed Proofreading Team.


THE SPIRIT AND THE WORD


_A Treatise on the Holy Spirit in the Light
of a Rational Interpretation of
the Word of Truth_


_By Z. T. SWEENEY_


GOSPEL ADVOCATE COMPANY
Nashville, Tennessee


TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                    PAGE
INTRODUCTION      5

I
THE SPIRIT AND THE OLD TESTAMENT      9

II
THE SPIRIT AND THE NEW TESTAMENT      15

III
THE PERSONALITY AND DIVINITY OF THE
SPIRIT      35

IV
THE SPIRIT AND JOHN THE BAPTIST      43

V
THE SPIRIT AND JESUS      53

VI
THE SPIRIT AND THE APOSTLES      65

VII
THE SPIRIT AND THE APOSTOLIC CHURCH      81

VIII
THE SPIRIT AND THE WORLD      98

IX
THE SPIRIT AND CHRISTIANS       117

X
THE PARTING WORD      141


INTRODUCTION


Christianity is differentiated from all the other religions by the fact
that it offers its followers a spiritual dynamic in living up to its
precepts. That dynamic is the Holy Spirit, that sets the word of God on
fire, warms the church from coldness to enthusiasm, and strengthens the
Christian with a power not his own in the great battle between the flesh
and the spirit.

Christianity is unique in making this offer. No other religion has any
equivalent for it. The Holy Spirit is not obtained from the deductions
of logic, the conclusions of philosophy nor from the investigations of
science. All these are as silent as the grave regarding his presence and
potency.

It is solely and distinctly a matter of divine revelation. It is not my
purpose, therefore, to view this subject in the light of philosophic
induction, logical deduction nor scientific investigation, but solely in
the light of God's revelation. I shall gather the teaching of God's word
around several important phases of the nature, mission and work of the
Spirit. I do not speculate upon what God may do through his Spirit; I
put no limit upon the power of the Spirit. He may work in a thousand
ways, for aught I know. I am treating solely of that work of the Spirit
which God has made plain in his revealed word.

For the sake of simplifying the treatment of the subject, I shall use
the words "Spirit" and "Holy Spirit" instead of other terms used in the
Scriptures. The Old Testament has eighty-eight distinct references to
the Holy Spirit. In these references there are eighteen names applied.
The New Testament refers to the Spirit two hundred and sixty-four times
and uses thirty-nine names. Five names are common to both Testaments,
which leaves fifty-two different appellatives for the Spirit. Seventeen
appellatives express his relation to God, five his relation to the Son,
five indicate his divine nature, seven describe his own character, while
seventeen are used to indicate his relation to man. He is called the
Holy Spirit, the Spirit of God, the Spirit of Christ, the Spirit of
Jesus, the Spirit of his Son, of the Lord, of Truth, of Grace, of
Holiness, of Glory, and of Adoption. He is called the Comforter, but
this term never denotes his relation to man in general. It always
describes a special relation to the apostles and their work.

I wish my readers to bring to the perusal of this work the same spirit
of earnestness that I shall put into the task of producing it. We read
in the language of Jesus that "every sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven
unto men; but the blasphemy against the Spirit shall not be forgiven"
(Matt. 12:31). "And every one who shall speak a word against the Son of
man, it shall be forgiven him: but unto him that blasphemeth against the
Holy Spirit it shall not be forgiven" (Luke 12:10).

Whatever else these terrible warnings may teach, they undoubtedly teach
that the greatest care should be taken by those who venture to discuss
this subject or investigate such discussion. Let both writer and reader
therefore cast aside any flippancy of spirit, also any preconceptions or
prejudices, and say like young Samuel of old: "Speak, Lord; thy servant
heareth."

The subject may be made plain or simple according to the manner we may
treat it. If we view it in the light of psychological manifestation in
our own hearts, or in the lives of those around us, which are ascribed
to the Spirit, we shall find ourselves wandering in a maze of mystery.
If we follow the word of God, which is the only source of knowledge, we
shall find ourselves walking in a light that shall grow brighter as we
proceed. It is impossible in a book the size of this to treat all the
many passages that refer to the Holy Spirit, but we shall give those
that have important bearing upon the subject.


I

THE SPIRIT AND THE OLD TESTAMENT


The Old Testament does not give the same prominence to the Holy Spirit
as does the New Testament. This is doubtless true because the Old
Testament deals largely with material things, while the New Testament is
primarily and essentially dealing with the spiritual nature and actions
of man. It is, however, referred to in more than half of the books of
the Old Testament, while in sixteen of them there is no specific mention
of the Spirit. It is, however, mentioned specifically eighty-eight times
in the Old Testament. It is generally spoken of as the Spirit of God.
The New Testament refers to these passages in such a way as to identify
the Holy Spirit of the New with the Spirit of God of the Old. In Luke
4:18 Jesus says:

    "The Spirit of the Lord is upon me,
     Because he anointed me to preach good
        tidings to the poor:
     He hath sent me to proclaim release to
        the captives,
        And recovering of sight to the blind.
     To set at liberty them that are bruised,
     To proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord."

This is directly connected with the "Spirit of the Lord Jehovah" in Isa.
61: 1, 2.

In the second chapter of Acts we have a direct connection with Joel 2.
These are two of many such connections that bind together and identify
the Spirit of the Lord of the Old Testament with the Holy Spirit of the
New. In both Testaments we find God working by his Spirit. The Old
Testament gives three lines of work performed by the Spirit:

1. HIS RELATION TO THE MATERIAL UNIVERSE.

(1) In Gen. 1:2 we are told: "And the Spirit of God moved on the face of
the waters." The word "moved" carries the sense of "hovered" or
"brooded." The previous condition of the world was "waste and void," or
a "formless waste." In some way the Spirit of God fashioned this
formless waste into the multiplicity of contrasts that followed. It
bound together those elements that were homogeneous, and separated the
heterogeneous and so prepared the way for the dividing the light from
the darkness that followed. The mode of the operation we do not know,
but the fact of the operation is clearly revealed.

(2) "By his Spirit the heavens are garnished" (Job 26:13). The
expression could be better translated, "The heavens are made fair," or
beautiful. That is, he set the constellations in their order. He gives
one illustration when he says: "His hand hath pierced the swift
serpent." Reference is here made to the beautiful constellation of
"Serpens," or Draco, of graceful and striking appearance.

(3) God's Spirit made me man; 'twas the Almighty's breath that gave me
life. This higher life that was given to man by an inbreathing of the
Spirit distinguishes man (_homo_) from all other animal species.

2. THE RELATION OF THE SPIRIT TO CREATED MAN.

(1) Gen. 6:3. God tells Noah: "My Spirit shall not strive with man for
ever, for that he also is flesh: yet shall his days be a hundred and
twenty years." Here the work of the Spirit passes from the form of
omnipotence to one of pleading or striving. The Spirit no more impresses
his will upon the material universe, but expresses (rolls it out) to a
rational creature. Bidoux, who, during Fleurette's illness, had allowed
her green grocery business to be personally conducted to the deuce by a
youth of sixteen very much in love with the lady who sold sausages and
other _charcuterie_ next door, had spread out the fortune-telling cards
on the bed and was prophesying mendaciously. Fleurette took the
flowers and clasped them to her bosom.

"No letter for _ce cher Reginald_?"
She shook her head. "I can write no more," she whispered.

She closed her eyes. Presently she said, in a low voice:--
"Aristide--if you kiss me, I think I can go to sleep."
He bent down to kiss her forehead. A fragile arm twined itself about
his neck and he kissed her on the lips.

"She is sleeping," said Mme. Bidoux, after a while.

Aristide tiptoed out of the room.

And so died Fleurette. Aristide borrowed money from the kind-hearted
Bocardon for a beautiful funeral, and Mme. Bidoux and Bocardon and a few
neighbours and himself saw her laid to rest.

When they got back to the Rue Saint Honoré he told Mme. Bidoux about
the letters.

She wept and clasped him, weeping too, in her kind, fat old arms.

The next evening Aristide, coming back from his day's work at the Hôtel
du Soleil et de l'Ecosse, was confronted in the shop by Mme.

Bidoux, hands on broad hips.

"_Tiens, mon petit_," she said, without preliminary greeting. "You are
an angel. I knew it. But that a man's an angel is no reason for
his being an imbecile.

Read this."

She plucked a paper from her apron pocket and thrust it into his
hand.

He read it, and blinked in amazement.

"Where did you get this, Mère Bidoux?"
"Where I got many more. In your drawer. The letters you were saving
for this infamous scoundrel. I wanted to know what she had written
to him."
"Mère Bidoux!" cried Aristide. "Those letters were sacred!"
"Bah!" said Mme. Bidoux, unabashed. "There is nothing sacred to a sapper
or an old grandmother who loves an imbecile. I have read the letters,
_et voilà, et voilà, et voilà!_" And she emptied her pockets of all the
letters, minus the envelopes, that Fleurette had written.

And, after one swift glance at the first letter, Aristide had no compunction
in reading. They were all addressed to himself.

                                     They were very short, ill-written
in a poor little uncultivated hand.
But they all contained one message,
that of her love for Aristide.
                                     Whatever illusions she may
have had concerning Batterby
had soon vanished. She knew, with the unerring instinct of woman, that
he had betrayed and deserted her.

Aristide's pious fraud had never deceived her for a second. Too gentle,
too timid to let him know what was in her heart, she had written
the secret patiently week after week, hoping every time that
curiosity, or pity, or something--she knew not what--would induce
him to open the idle letter, and wondering in her simple peasant's
soul at the delicacy that caused him to refrain.

Once she had boldly given him the
envelope unclosed.

[Illustration: HE READ IT, AND
BLINKED IN AMAZEMENT]
"She died for want of love, _parbleu_," said Aristide, "and there
was mine quivering in my heart and trembling on my lips all the
time....

She had _des yeux de pervenche_.
Ah! _nom d'un chien!_ It is only
with me that Providence plays such tricks."

He walked to the window and looked out into the grey street.

Presently I heard him murmuring the
words of the old French
song:--

Elle est morte en février; Pauvre
Colinette!

VII
THE ADVENTURE OF THE MIRACLE
You have seen how Aristide, by attaching himself to the Hôtel du
Soleil et de l'Ecosse as a kind of glorified courier, had founded
the Agence Pujol.

As he, personally, was the Agence,
and the Agence was he, it happened
that when he was not in attendance at the hotel, the Agence faded
into space, and when he made his appearance in the vestibule and
hung up his placard by the bureau, the Agence at once burst again
into the splendour of existence.

Apparently the fitful career of
the Agence Pujol lasted some years.

Whenever a chance of more
remunerative employment turned up, Aristide took it and dissolved
the Agence.

Whenever outrageous fortune chivied him with slings and arrows
penniless to Paris, there was always the Agence waiting to be
resuscitated.

It was during one of these periodic flourishings of the Agence Pujol
that Aristide met the Ducksmiths.

Business was slack, few guests were at the hotel, and of those few
none desired to be personally conducted to the Louvre or Notre Dame
or the monument in the Place de la Bastille.

They mostly wore the placid expression of folks engaged in business
affairs instead of the worried look of

                                     pleasure-seekers.

"My good Bocardon," said Aristide, lounging by the bureau and
addressing his friend the manager, "this is becoming desperate.

In another minute I shall take you out by main force and show you
the Pont Neuf."

At that moment the door of the stuffy salon opened, and a travelling
Briton, whom Aristide had not seen before, advanced to the bureau
and inquired his way to the Madeleine.

Aristide turned on him like a flash.

"Sir," said he,
                                     extracting documents from his
pockets with lightning rapidity, "nothing would give me
greater pleasure than to conduct
you thither. My card. My tariff. My advertisement." He pointed
                                     to the placard. "I am the managing
director of the Agence Pujol, under the special patronage of this
hotel.

I undertake all travelling arrangements, from the Moulin Rouge to
the Pyramids, and, as you see, my charges are moderate."

The Briton, holding the documents in a pudgy hand, looked at the
swift-gestured director with portentous solemnity. Then, with equal
solemnity, he looked at
                                     Bocardon.

"Monsieur Ducksmith," said the
latter, "you can repose every confidence in Monsieur Aristide Pujol."
                                     
"Umph!" said Mr. Ducksmith.

                                     After another solemn inspection of
Aristide, he stuck a pair of gold-rimmed glasses
on his fleshy nose and perused the documents.

He was a fat, heavy man of about
fifty years of age, and his scanty hair was turning grey.

His puffy cheeks hung jowl-like,
giving him the appearance of some odd dog--a similarity greatly
intensified by the eye-sockets, the lower lids of which were dragged
down in the middle, showing the red like a bloodhound's; but here
the similarity ended, for the man's eyes, dull and blue, had the
unspeculative fixity of a rabbit's.

His mouth, small and weak,
dribbled away at the corners into
the jowls which, in their turn, melted into two or three chins.

He was decently dressed in grey
tweeds, and wore a diamond ring on his little finger.

"Umph!" said he, at last; and went back to the salon.

As soon as the door closed behind
him Aristide sprang into an
attitude of indignation.

"Did you ever see such a bear!
If I ever saw a bigger one I would
eat him without salt or pepper.

_Mais nom d'un chien_, such
people ought to be made into sausages!"

"_Flègme britannique!_" laughed
Bocardon.

Half an hour passed, and Mr.

Ducksmith made no reappearance from
the salon.

In the forlorn hope of a client
Aristide went in after him.

He found Mr. Ducksmith, glasses
on nose, reading a newspaper,
and a plump, black-haired lady, with an expressionless face,
knitting a grey woollen sock.

Why they should be spending
their first morning--and a crisp,
sunny morning, too--in Paris in
the murky staleness of this awful
little salon, Aristide could not
imagine. As he entered, Mr.
Ducksmith regarded him vacantly
over the top of his gold-rimmed glasses.

"I have looked in," said Aristide,
with his ingratiating smile,
"to see whether you are ready to go to the Madeleine."

"Madeleine?" the lady inquired,
softly, pausing in her knitting.

"Madame," Aristide came forward, and, hand on heart, made her the
lowest of bows.

"Madame, have I the honour of speaking to Madame Ducksmith?
Enchanted, madame, to make your acquaintance," he continued, after a grunt
                                     from Mr.
Ducksmith had assured him of the
correctness of his conjecture. "I am Monsieur Aristide Pujol, director
                                     of the Agence Pujol, and my poor
services are absolutely at your disposal."
He drew himself up, twisted his
moustache, and met her eyes--they were rather sad and tired--with the
roguish mockery of his own. She turned to her husband.
                                     
"Are you thinking of going to the Madeleine, Bartholomew?"
"I am, Henrietta," said
he. "I have decided to do it. And
I have also decided to put ourselves in the charge of this
gentleman. Mrs. Ducksmith and I
are accustomed to all the conveniences of travel--I may say that we
                                     are great travellers--and I
leave it to you to make the
necessary arrangements. I prefer to travel at so much per head per
day."

He spoke in a wheezy, solemn monotone, from which all elements of life
and joy seemed to have been eliminated.

His wife's voice, though softer in timbre, was likewise devoid of
colour.

"My husband finds that it saves us from responsibilities," she
remarked.

                                     "And over-charges, and the necessity
of learning foreign languages, which at our time of life would be
difficult.

During all our travels we have not been to Paris before, owing to the
impossibility of finding a personally-conducted tour of an adequate
class."

"Then, my dear sir," cried Aristide, "it is Providence itself that
has put you in the way of the Agence Pujol.

I will now conduct you to the Madeleine without the least discomfort or
danger."
"Put on your hat, Henrietta," said Mr.

Ducksmith, "while this gentleman and I discuss terms."
Mrs. Ducksmith gathered up her knitting and retired, Aristide dashing
to the door to open it for her.

This gallantry surprised her ever so little, for a faint flush came
into her cheek and the shadow of a smile into her eyes.

                                     "I wish you to understand, Mr. Pujol,"
said Mr. Ducksmith, "that being, I may say, a comparatively
rich man, I can afford to
                                     pay for certain luxuries; but I
made a resolution many years ago, which has stood me in good stead
during my business life, that I
would never be cheated. You will find me liberal but just."
                                     He was as good as his word.
Aristide, who had never in his life exploited
another's wealth to his own advantage,
suggested certain terms, on the basis of so much per head per day,
                                     which Mr. Ducksmith declared,
with a sigh of relief, to be perfectly satisfactory.

"Perhaps," said he, after further
conversation, "you will be good enough to schedule out a month's
railway tour through France, and give me an inclusive estimate for
the three of us.

As I say, Mrs. Ducksmith and I
are great travellers--we have been to Norway, to Egypt, to Morocco
and the Canaries, to the Holy Land, to Rome, and lovely Lucerne--but
we find that attention to the trivial detail of travel militates
against our enjoyment."

"My dear sir," said Aristide,
"trust in me, and your path and
that of the charming Mrs.

Ducksmith will be strewn with roses."

Whereupon Mrs. Ducksmith appeared,
arrayed for walking out, and Aristide, having ordered a cab, drove
with them to the Madeleine.

They alighted in front of the
majestic flight of steps.

Mr. Ducksmith stared at the classical
portico supported on its
Corinthian columns with his rabbit-like, unspeculative gaze--he
had those filmy blue eyes that never seem to wink--and after a
moment or two turned away.

"Umph!" said he.

Mrs. Ducksmith, dutiful and silent,
turned away also.

"This sacred edifice," Aristide
began, in his best cicerone manner, "was built, after a classic
model, by the great Napoleon, as a Temple of Fame.

It was afterwards used as a church.
You will observe--and, if you care to, you can count, as a
conscientious American lady did last week--the fifty-six Corinthian
columns.

You will see they are Corinthian
by the acanthus leaves on the capitals.

For the vulgar, who have no architectural
knowledge, I have _memoria technica_ for the instant recognition
of the three orders--Cabbages, Corinthian; horns, Ionic; anything
else, Doric.

We will now mount the steps and
inspect the interior."
He was dashing off in his eager fashion, when Mr.

Ducksmith laid a detaining hand
on his arm.

"No," said he, solemnly. "I
disapprove of Popish interiors.

Take us to the next place."
[Illustration: HE MIGHT AS WELL HAVE
POINTED OUT THE MARVELS OF KUBLA KHAN'S PLEASURE-DOME TO A COUPLE
OF GUINEA-PIGS] 
He entered the waiting victoria.

His wife meekly followed.

"I suppose the Louvre is the next
place?"

said Aristide.

"I leave it to you," said Mr.

Ducksmith.

Aristide gave the order to the cabman and took the little seat in
the cab
                                     facing his employers. On the
way down the Rue Royale and the Rue de Rivoli he pointed out the various
buildings of interest--Maxim's, the Cercle Royal, the Ministère
de la Marine, the Hôtel Continental.

Two expressionless faces, two pairs of unresponsive eyes, met his
merry glance. He might as well have pointed out the marvels of Kubla
Khan's pleasure-dome to a couple of guinea-pigs.

The cab stopped at the entrance to the galleries of the Louvre. They
                                     entered and walked up the
great staircase on the turn of which the Winged
Victory stands, with the wind of
                                     God in her vesture,
proclaiming to each beholder the deathless, ever-soaring, ever-conquering
spirit of man, and heralding the immortal glories of the souls,
                                     wind-swept likewise by the
wind of God, that are enshrined in the treasure-houses beyond.

"There!" said Aristide.
                                     
"Umph! No head," said Mr. Ducksmith, passing it by with
scarcely a glance.
                                     
"Would it cost very much to get a new one?" asked Mrs. Ducksmith,
timidly. She was three or four paces behind her
spouse.
                                     
"It would cost the blood and tears and laughter of the human
race," said
                                     Aristide.
                                     
                                     ("That was devilish good, wasn't it?"

                                     remarked Aristide, when telling me
                                     this story. He always took
                                     care not to hide his light under the least possibility of a bushel.)

                                     The Ducksmiths looked at him
                                     in their lacklustre way, and allowed
                                     themselves to be guided into
                                     the picture-galleries, vaguely hearing Aristide's comments, scarcely
glancing at the pictures, and manifesting no sign of interest in
anything whatever.

                                     From the Louvre they drove to Notre
                                     Dame, where the same thing happened.

The venerable pile, standing imperishable amid the vicissitudes of
centuries (the phrase was that of the director of the Agence Pujol),
stirred in their bosoms no perceptible emotion.

Mr. Ducksmith grunted and declined to enter; Mrs. Ducksmith said
nothing.

As with
                                    pictures and cathedrals, so it
was with their food at lunch.
Beyond a solemn statement to
the effect that in their quality of practised travellers they made
                                    a point of eating the
food and drinking the wine of
the country, Mr. Ducksmith did not allude to the meal. At any rate,
                                    thought Aristide, they don't
clamour for underdone chops and tea. So far they were human. Nor did
they maintain an awful silence during the repast. On the
contrary, Mr.
                                    Ducksmith loved to talk--in a
dismal, pompous way--chiefly of British politics.
His method of discourse was
to place himself in the position of those in authority and to
declare what he would do in any given circumstances.

Now, unless the interlocutor
adopts the same method and declares what _he_ would do, conversation
is apt to become one-sided.

Aristide, having no notion of a
policy should he find himself exercising the functions of the
British Chancellor of the Exchequer, cheerfully tried to change the
ground of debate.

"What would you do, Mr. Ducksmith,
if you were King of England?"

"I should try to rule the realm
like a Christian statesman,"
replied Mr.

Ducksmith.

"I should have a devil of a
time!" said Aristide.

"I beg your pardon?" said Mr.
Ducksmith.

"I should have a--ah, I see--_pardon_.
I should----" He looked from
one paralyzing face to the other, and threw out his arms.

"_Parbleu!

_" said he, "I should decapitate your Mrs. Grundy, and make it compulsory
for bishops to dance once a week in Trafalgar Square. _Tiens!_ I
                                     would have it a capital
offence for any English cook to
prepare hashed mutton without a license, and I would banish all the
                                     bakers of the kingdom to Siberia--ah!
your English bread, which you have to eat stale so as to avoid a horrible
death!--and I would open two hundred thousand
_cafés_--_mon Dieu!

_ how thirsty I have been there!--and
I would make every English work-girl do her hair properly, and I
would
                                     ordain that everybody should
laugh three times a day, under pain of imprisonment for life."

"I am afraid, Mr. Pujol," remarked Mr. Ducksmith, seriously, "you would
not be acting as a constitutional monarch. There is such a thing
                                     as the British Constitution,
which foreigners are bound to admire, even though they may not
understand."
"To be a king must be a great
responsibility," said Mrs.

Ducksmith.

"Madame," said Aristide, "you have uttered a profound truth." And
to himself he murmured, though he should not have done so,
"_Nom de Dieu!

Nom de Dieu de nom de Dieu!_"
After lunch they drove to Versailles, which they inspected in the same
                                     apathetic fashion;
then they returned to the hotel,
where they established themselves for the rest of the day in the
airless salon, Mr.
Ducksmith reading English newspapers and his wife knitting a grey
woollen sock.
"_Mon vieux!_" said Aristide to Bocardon, "they are people of a
nightmare. They are automata endowed with the faculty of digestion.
_Ce sont des gens invraisemblables._"
Paris providing them, apparently, with no entertainment, they
started, after a couple of days, _Aristide duce et auspice Pujol_,
on their railway tour through France, to Aristide a pilgrimage of
unimaginable depression. They began with Chartres, continued with
the Châteaux of the Loire, and began to work their way south. Nothing
that Aristide could do roused them from their apathy. They were
exasperatingly docile, made few complaints, got up, entrained,
detrained, fed, excursioned, slept, just as they were bidden.We through [the]
through faith.                       _Spirit_ by faith wait for
                                     the hope of righteousness.
4:6. God sent forth the
_Spirit_ of his Son into our         5:16. Walk by [the] Spirit, and ye
hearts.                              shall not fulfil the lust of the
                                     flesh.
5:17. The flesh lusteth against
the _Spirit_, and the                5:18. If ye are led by [the]
_Spirit_ against the flesh.          _Spirit_, ye are not under
                                     the law.
5:22. The fruit of the
_Spirit_ is love, joy, peace.        5:25. If we live by [the]
                                     _Spirit_, by the
6:8. He that soweth unto the         _Spirit_ let us also walk.
_Spirit_ shall of the
_Spirit_ reap eternal life.

EPHESIANS.

1:13. Ye were sealed with the Holy   1:17. That God ... may give unto
Spirit of promise.                   you a spirit of wisdom and
                                     revelation in the knowledge of
2:18. Through him we both have our   him.
access in one Spirit unto the
Father.                              2:22. In whom ye also are builded
                                     together for a habitation of God
3:16. That ye may be strengthened    in [the] _Spirit_.
with power through his
_Spirit_ in the inward man.          3:5. It hath now been revealed
                                     unto his holy apostles and
4:3. Keep the unity of the           prophets in [the] Spirit.
_Spirit_ in the bond of
peace.                               5:18. Be filled with [the] Spirit.

4:4. There is one body, and one      6:18. Praying at all seasons in
_Spirit_.                            [the] _Spirit_.

4:30. Grieve not the Holy Spirit
of God, in whom ye were sealed.

6:17. Take ... the sword of the
Spirit, which is the word of God.


PHILLIPPIANS.

1:19. The supply of the              2:1. If there is ...any fellowship
_Spirit_ of Jesus Christ.            of [the] _Spirit_.

                                     3:3. We are the circumcision, who
                                     worship by [the] _Spirit_ of
                                     God.

COLOSSIANS.

                                     1:8. Who also declared unto us
                                     your love in [the] _Spirit_.


1 THESSALONIANS.

4:8. God, who giveth his Holy        1:5. Our gospel came not unto you
Spirit unto you.                     in word only, but ...in the Holy
                                     Spirit.
6:19. Quench not the
_Spirit_.                            1:6. Having received the word
                                     ...with joy of [the] Holy
                                     _Spirit_.


2 THESSALONIANS.

                                     2:13. God chose you ...in
                                     sanctification of [the]
                                     _Spirit_.


1 TIMOTHY.

4:1. The Spirit saith expressly,     3:16. He who was ... justified in
that ... some shall fall away from   [the] spirit.
the faith.

4:14. Neglect not the gift that is
in thee.

2 TIMOTHY.

                                     1:7. God gave us not a spirit of
                                     fearfulness; but of power and love
                                     and discipline.

                                     1:14. That good thing ... guard
                                     through [the] Holy Spirit.


TITUS.

                                     3:5. He saved us through the ...
                                     renewing of [the] Holy
                                     _Spirit_.


HEBREWS.

3:7. Wherefore, even as the Holy     2:4. God also bearing witness with
Spirit saith, To-day if ye will      them, ... by gifts of [the] Holy
hear his voice.                      Spirit.

4:3. Even as he hath said.           6:4. Were made partakers of [the]
                                     Holy Spirit.
4:7. He again defineth a certain
day.                                 9:14. Who through [the] eternal
                                     Spirit offered himself without
9:8. The Holy Spirit this            blemish unto God.
signifying.

10:15. The Holy Spirit also
beareth witness to us.

10:29. Hath done despite unto the
_Spirit_ of grace?


JAMES.

4:5. Doth the _Spirit_ which
he made to dwell in us long unto
envying?

1 PETER

1:11. Searching what time ... the    1:2. In sanctification of [the]
Spirit of Christ ... did point       _Spirit_.
unto.
                                     1:12. Preached the gospel unto you
3:18. Put to death in the flesh,     in [the] Holy Spirit.
but made alive in the spirit.
                                     4:6. Live according to God in
4:14. The Spirit of glory and the    [the] spirit.
Spirit of God resteth upon you.


2 PETER

                                     1:21. Men spake from God, being
                                     moved by [the] Holy Spirit.


1 JOHN

2:20. Ye have an anointing from
the Holy One.

2:27. The anointing which ye
received of him abideth in you.

3:24. We know that he abideth in
us by the Spirit which he gave us.

4:2. Hereby know ye the Spirit of
God: Every spirit that confesseth
that Jesus Christ is come in the
flesh is of God.

4:6. By this we know the spirit of
truth, and the spirit of error.

4:13. He hath given us of his
Spirit.

5:7. It is the Spirit that beareth
witness, because the Spirit is the
truth.

5:8. There are three who bear
witness, the Spirit, and the
water, and the blood.


JUDE

                                     19. Having not [the]
                                     _Spirit_.

                                     20. Praying in [the] Holy
                                     _Spirit_.


REVELATION.

1:4. The seven Spirits that are      1:10. I was in [the] _Spirit_
before his throne.                   on the Lord's day.

2:7. Hear what the Spirit saith to   4:2. Straightway I was in [the]
the churches.                        _Spirit._

2:17. Hear what the Spirit saith     11:11. The breath of life from God
to the churches.                     entered into them.

2:29. Hear what the Spirit saith     17:3. He carried me away in [the]
to the churches.                     _Spirit_ into a wilderness.

3:1. He that hath the seven          21:10. He carried me away in [the]
Spirits of God.                      _Spirit_ to a mountain.

3:6. Hear what the Spirit saith to
the churches.

3:13. Hear what the Spirit saith
to the churches.

4:5. Seven lamps of fire ... which
are the seven Spirits of God.

5:6. Seven eyes, which are the
seven Spirits of God.

14:13. Yea, saith the Spirit, that
they may rest from their labors.

22:17. The Spirit and the bride
say, Come,


III

THE PERSONALITY AND DIVINITY OF THE SPIRIT


Two views have been entertained concerning the Holy Spirit: (1) That it
is a divine influence proceeding from the Father, an emanation from or
manifestation of the divine, or a mere impersonal force. (2) That he is
a person and active in all the ways of a personality. That the latter
view is the correct and Scriptural one is evident from the following
considerations:

1. HIS WORKS PROCLAIM PERSONALITY.

(1) _He speaks._ "But the Spirit saith expressly, that in later times
some shall fall away from the faith" (1 Tim. 4:1). A speaker is a
person; no influence or principle can speak.

(2) _He testifies._ "But when the Comforter is come, whom I will send
unto you from the Father, even the Spirit of truth, which proceedeth
from the Father, he shall bear witness of me" (John 15: 26).

(3) _He teaches and quickens the mind._ "But the Comforter, even the
Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you
all things, and bring to your remembrance all that I said unto you"
(John 14:26).

(4) _He guides._ "I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye can not
bear them now. Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he shall
guide you into all the truth" (John 16: 12, 13).

(5) _He leads and forbids._ "And they went through the region of Phrygia
and Galatia, having been forbidden of the Holy Spirit to speak the word
in Asia; and when they were come over against Mysia, they assayed to go
into Bithynia; and the Spirit of Jesus suffered them not" (Acts 16:6,
7).

(6) _He searches._ "But unto us God revealed them through the Spirit:
for the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God" (1
Cor. 2:10).

In the above passages the Holy Spirit is said to speak, to testify, to
quicken, to teach, to guide disciples, to lead, to forbid and to search.
All these things unite in showing the Holy Spirit to be a person, for
nothing but a person can do them.

2. HE HAS THE CHARACTERISTICS OF A PERSON.

We will mention a few of them:

(1) _Mind._ "And he that searcheth the hearts knoweth what is the _mind
of the Spirit_" (Rom. 8:27).

(2) _Knowledge._ "Even so the things of God none knoweth, save the
Spirit of God" (1 Cor. 2:11).

(3) _Affection._ "Now I beseech you, brethren, by our Lord Jesus Christ,
and by the _love of the Spirit_, that ye strive together with me in your
prayers to God for me" (Rom. 15:30).

(4) _Will._ "But all these worketh the one and the same Spirit, dividing
to each one severally even _as he will_" (1 Cor. 12:11).

(5) _Goodness._ "Thou gavest also thy _good Spirit_ to instruct them"
(Neh. 9:20). Goodness, will, affection, knowledge and mind are all
characteristics of a person. By no stretch of the imagination can they
be ascribed to a mere impersonal influence or principle. These five
characteristics form the fingers in the hand of certainty by which we
grasp the personality of the Holy Spirit.

3. HE SUFFERS SLIGHTS AND INJURIES THAT CAN ONLY BE ASCRIBED TO A
PERSONALITY.

(1) _He can be grieved and vexed._ "And grieve not the Holy Spirit of
God, in whom ye were sealed unto the day of redemption" (Eph. 4:30).
"But they rebelled, and grieved his holy Spirit: therefore he was turned
to be their enemy, and himself fought against them" (Isa. 63:10).

(2) _He can be despited._ "Of how much sorer punishment, think ye, shall
he be judged worthy, who hath trodden under foot the Son of God, and
hath counted the blood of the covenant where-with he was sanctified an
unholy thing, and hath _done despite_ unto the Spirit of grace" (Heb.
10:29).

(3) _He can be blasphemed_. "Therefore I say unto you, Every sin and
blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men; but the blasphemy against the
Spirit shall not be forgiven. And whosoever shall speak a word against
the Son of man, it shall be forgiven him; but whosoever shall speak
against the Holy Spirit, it shall not be forgiven him, neither in this
world, nor in that which is to come" (Matt. 12:31, 32).

(4) _He can be resisted_. "Ye stiff-necked and uncircumcised in heart
and ears, ye do always resist the Holy Spirit" (Acts 7:51).

(5) _He can be lied unto_. "But Peter said, Ananias, why hath Satan
filled thy heart to lie to the Holy Spirit, and to keep back part of the
price of the land?" (Acts 5:3).

A mere principle can not sustain any of the above slights. Nothing but a
personality can be blasphemed, lied to, resisted or grieved.

4. HE IS A DIVINE PERSONALITY. This will be seen from the following
attributes, which are the attributes of God:

(1) _Eternity_. "How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through
the _eternal_ Spirit offered himself without blemish unto God, cleanse
your conscience from dead works to serve the living God?" (Heb. 9:14).
"Jehovah is great in Zion; And he is high above all the peoples" (Ps.
99:2).

(2) _Omniscience_. "But unto us God revealed them through the Spirit:
for the Spirit _searcheth all things_, yea, the deep things of God. For
who among men knoweth the things of a man, save the spirit of the man,
which is in him? even so the things of God none knoweth, save the Spirit
of God" (1 Cor. 2:10, 11).

(3) _Omnipotence_. "But as for me, I am full of power _by the Spirit_ of
Jehovah, and of judgment, and of might, to declare unto Jacob his
transgression, and to Israel his sin" (Mic. 3:8).

(4) _Omnipresence_. "Whither shall I go from thy Spirit? Or whither
shall I flee from thy presence?... Even there shall thy hand lead me,
And thy right hand shall hold me" (Ps. 139:7, 10). "Can any hide himself
in secret places so that I shall not see him? saith Jehovah. Do not I
fill heaven and earth? saith Jehovah" (Jer. 23:24).

5. THE WORKS OF THE HOLY SPIRIT MANIFEST DIVINITY.

(1) The work of _creation_. "And the earth was waste and void; and
darkness was upon the face of the deep: and the Spirit of God moved upon
the face of the waters" (Gen. 1:2). "By his Spirit the heavens are
garnished; his hand hath pierced the swift serpent" (Job 26:13). "By the
word of Jehovah were the heavens made, And all the host of them by the
breath of his mouth" (Ps. 33:6). "The Spirit of God hath made me, And
the breath of the Almighty giveth me life" (Job 33:4).

(2) The work of _providence_. "Thou sendest forth thy Spirit, they are
created; and thou renewest the face of the ground" (Ps. 104:30).

(3) The work of _regeneration_ and resurrection. "Jesus answered,
Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except one be born of water and the
Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God" (John 3:5). "But if
the Spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwelleth in you, he
that raised up Christ Jesus from the dead shall give life also to your
mortal bodies through his Spirit that dwelleth in you" (Rom. 8:11).

(4) He is the source of the _miraculous._ "But if I by the Spirit of God
cast out demons, then is the kingdom of God come upon you" (Matt.
12:28). "To another faith, in the same Spirit; and to another gifts of
healing, in the one Spirit; ... but all these worketh the one and the
same Spirit, dividing to each one severally even as he will" (1 Cor.
12:9, 11).

Thus in his works, his characteristics, the things he suffers, his
attributes and his achievements, we have a fivefold cord of testimony
that clearly demonstrates the Spirit's personality and divinity.


IV

THE SPIRIT AND JOHN THE BAPTIST


The first mention of the Holy Spirit in the New Testament is in
connection with John the Baptist: "There was in the days of Herod, king
of Judæa, a certain priest named Zacharias, of the course of Abijah: and
he had a wife of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elisabeth. And
they were both righteous before God, walking in all the commandments and
ordinances of the Lord blameless" (Luke 1:5, 6).

This Zacharias was taking his turn in the temple service, and an angel
appeared unto him and announced that in answer to his prayer his wife
Elisabeth should bear a son whose name should be called John; that he
should be great, and should drink no wine nor strong drink, and (Luke
1:15) "he shall be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother's
womb"; and "his father Zacharias was _filled with the Holy Spirit_, and
prophesied, saying, Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel; for he hath
visited and wrought redemption for his people" (Luke 1:67, 68).

And the child John grew and "waxed strong in spirit, and was in the
deserts till the day of his showing unto Israel" (Luke 1:80). His
private life was spent in the desert solitudes, where he was being
strengthened in spirit for the great work God had prepared for him. This
work had been foretold by the Holy Spirit. It spake through Isaiah the
prophet (40:3), saying: "The voice of one that crieth, Prepare ye in the
wilderness the way of Jehovah; make level in the desert a highway for
our God. Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill
shall be made low; and the rough places a plain: and the glory of
Jehovah shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together." Again,
Malachi (3:1) says: "Behold, I send my messenger, and he shall prepare
the way before me."

In fulfillment of these predictions of the Spirit came John the Baptist
in the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, preaching the
baptism of repentance for the remission of sins. Great multitudes
flocked to his preaching and baptism. Among others came Jesus of
Nazareth, and "on the morrow he seeth Jesus coming unto him, and saith,
Behold, the Lamb of God, that taketh away the sin of the world" (John
1:29). "This is he of whom I said, After me cometh a man who is become
before me: for he was before me. And I knew him not; but that he should
be made manifest to Israel, for this cause came I baptizing in water.
And John bare witness, saying, I have beheld the Spirit descending as a
dove out of heaven; and it abode upon him. And I knew him not: but he
that sent me to baptize in water, he said unto me, Upon whomsoever thou
shalt see the Spirit descending, and abiding upon him, the same is he
that baptizeth in the Holy Spirit. And I have seen, and have borne
witness that this is the Son of God" (John 1:30-34).

The next mention of the Holy Spirit by John the Baptist is in reference
to the baptism in the Holy Spirit and in fire. In order that the reader
may have a clear understanding of this disputed and difficult subject, I
shall present the testimonies of the four Evangelists in parallel
columns [paragraphs]:


MATT. 3:10-12.

And even now the axe lieth at the root of the trees: every tree
therefore that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into
the fire. I indeed baptize you in water unto repentance: but he that
after me is mightier than I, whose shoes I am not worthy to bear: he
shall baptize you in the Holy Spirit and in fire: whose fan is in his
hand, and he will thoroughly cleanse his threshing-floor; and he will
gather his wheat into the garner, but the chaff he will burn up with
unquenchable fire.


MARK 1:7, 8.

And he preached, saying There cometh after me he that is mightier than
I, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to stoop down and unloose.
I baptize you in water; but he shall baptize you in the Holy Spirit.


LUKE 3:9, 16, 17.

And even now the axe also lieth at the root of the trees: every tree
therefore that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into
the fire.... John answered, saying unto them all, I indeed baptize you
in water; but there cometh he that is mightier than I, the latchet of
whose shoes I am not worthy to unloose; he shall baptize you in the Holy
Spirit and in fire: whose fan is in his hand, thoroughly to cleanse his
threshing-floor and to gather the wheat into his garner; but the chaff
he will burn up with unquenchable fire.


JOHN 1:33.

And I knew him not: but he that sent me to baptize in water, he said
unto me, Upon whomsoever thou shalt see the Spirit descending, and
abiding upon him, the same is he that baptizeth in the Holy Spirit.


John is preaching to a mixed multitude composed of those who would
accept his teaching and baptism, and of those who would accept neither.
Many the former would become disciples of Jesus and receive the baptism
of the Holy Spirit to qualify them to take up the work of the Master and
carry it on until the church would be established and the gospel fully
revealed to men. The baptism of the Spirit, a purely supernatural thing,
was necessary to qualify them for this work. Others would "reject for
themselves the counsel of God, being not baptized of him." These should
at last "have their part in the lake that burneth with fire and
brimstone." That such a division was meant by John becomes evident if we
examine the context carefully. In the above parallel columns the reader
will observe that Matthew and Luke use the expression "in the Holy
Spirit and in fire." They both use two illustrations to show what is
meant by "in fire." One of the illustrations immediately precedes and
the other immediately follows the expression "in the Holy Spirit and in
fire," seemingly for the specific purpose of guarding against a failure
to understand the expression "in fire." The illustration that precedes
in both instances is: "Therefore every tree that bringeth not forth good
fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire." Such was his regard for
his patron's memory, that when Sallust described him as having a brazen
face, and a shameless mind, he lashed the historian in a most bitter
satire [882], as "a bull's-pizzle, a gormandizer, a braggart, and a
tippler, a man whose life and writings were equally monstrous;" besides
charging him with being "a most unskilful plagiarist, who borrowed
the language of Cato and other old writers." It is related, that, in
his youth, having escaped from slavery by the contrivance of some of his
friends, he took refuge in his own country; and, that after he had applied
himself to the liberal arts, he brought the price of his freedom to his
former master, who, however, struck by his talents and learning, gave
him manumission gratuitously.

XVI. QUINTUS CAECILIUS, an Epirot by descent, but born at Tusculum, was
a freedman of Atticus Satrius, a Roman (518) knight, to whom Cicero
addressed his Epistles [883].

He became the tutor of his patron's daughter [884], who was contracted
to Marcus Agrippa, but being suspected of an illicit intercourse
with her, and sent away on that account, he betook himself to Cornelius
Gallus, and lived with him on terms of the greatest intimacy, which,
indeed, was imputed to Gallus as one of his heaviest offences, by
Augustus. Then, after the condemnation and death of Gallus [885], he
opened a school, but had few pupils, and those very young, nor any
belonging to the higher orders, excepting the children of those he
could not refuse to admit.In every instance in which the word "purify" is
found in the New Testament it is an act of personal volition--_something
a man must do for himself._ John 11:55: "Now the passover of the Jews
was at hand: and many went up to Jerusalem out of the country before the
passover, to purify themselves."

Acts 21:24: "These take, and purify thyself with them, and be at charges
for them, that they may shave their heads; and all shall know that there
is no truth in the things whereof they have been informed concerning
thee; but that thou thyself also walkest orderly, keeping the law."

Acts 21:26: "Then Paul took the men, and the next day purifying himself
with them went into the temple, declaring the fulfilment of the days of
purification, until the offering was offered for every one of them."

Jas. 4:8: "Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your
hands, ye sinners; and purify your hearts, ye doubleminded."

1 Pet. 1:22: "Seeing ye have purified your souls in your obedience to
the truth unto unfeigned love of the brethren, love one another from the
heart fervently."

1 John 3:3: "And every one that hath this hope set on him purifieth
himself, even as he is pure."

"Men must cleanse themselves from wrong in thought, word and deed, and
purify their souls in obeying the truth. The Bible teaches that this is
God's way of purifying sinners" (_H.R. Pritchard, "Addresses,"_ p. 323).

From this chapter the reader will obtain the following Scripture facts:

1. The Holy Spirit rested on John the Baptist from his mother's womb.

2. The Holy Spirit filled his father Zacharias so that he prophesied.

3. The Holy Spirit bore witness to Jesus by descending and abiding upon
him, enabling John to identify him.

4. John promised a baptism in the Holy Spirit to some of his auditors
and threatened others with a baptism in fire.

1 Pet. 1:11, 12: "Searching what time or what manner of time the Spirit
of Christ which was in them did point unto, when it testified beforehand
the sufferings of Christ, and the glories that should follow them. To
whom it was revealed, that not unto themselves, but unto you, did they
minister these things, which now have been announced unto you through
them that preached the gospel unto you by the Holy Spirit sent forth
from heaven: which things angels desire to look into."


V

THE SPIRIT AND JESUS


The relation sustained by the Holy Spirit to Jesus Christ is a twofold
one. First: He predicted by the holy prophets the great facts in the
life of the coming one. Second: He associated himself with that one
after he came.

1. THE TIME OF HIS COMING WAS CLEARLY FORETOLD. He was to come "in the
last days," or in the end of the Jewish Dispensation. "And it shall come
to pass in the latter days, that the mountain of Jehovah's house shall
be established on the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above
the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it" (Isa. 2:2).

2. HE WAS TO COME WHILE THE SECOND TEMPLE WAS IN EXISTENCE. "Behold, I
send my messenger, and he shall prepare the way before me: and the Lord,
whom ye seek, will suddenly come _to his temple_; and the messenger of
the covenant, whom ye desire, behold, he cometh, saith Jehovah of hosts"
(Mal. 3:1).

3. THE PLACE OF HIS NATIVITY WAS A MATTER OF PROPHECY. "But thou,
Bethlehem Ephrathah, which art little to be among the thousands of
Judah, out of thee shall one come forth unto me that is to be ruler in
Israel; whose goings forth are from of old, from everlasting" (Mic.
5:2).

4. HIS LINEAGE WAS DECLARED IN THE JEWISH SCRIPTURES.

(1) _He was to be a descendant of Abraham._ "In thee shall all the
families of the earth be blessed" (Gen. 12:3). "For verily not of angels
doth he take hold, but he taketh hold of the seed of Abraham" (Heb.
2:16).

(2) _He was to be of the tribe of Judah._ "For it is evident that our
Lord hath sprung out of Judah; as to which tribe Moses spake nothing
concerning priests" (Heb. 7:14).

(3) _He was to be of the house of David._ "And it shall come to pass in
that day, that the root of Jesse, which standeth for an ensign of the
peoples, unto him shall the nations seek; and his resting-place shall be
glorious" (Isa. 11:10).

5. HIS CHARACTER WAS MINUTELY DESCRIBED BY THE PROPHETS.

(1) _His wisdom_. "And the Spirit of Jehovah shall rest upon him, the
spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the
spirit of knowledge and of the fear of Jehovah" (Isa. 11:2).

(2) _His obedience_. "For I am come down from heaven, not to do mine own
will, but the will of him that sent me" (John 6:38).

(3) _His love of righteousness_. "Thou hast loved righteousness, and
hated wickedness: Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the
oil of gladness above thy fellows" (Ps. 45:7).

(4) _His gentleness and tenderness._ "He will not cry, nor lift up his
voice, nor cause it to be heard in the street. A bruised reed will he
not break, and a dimly burning wick will he not quench: he will bring
forth justice in truth" (Isa. 42:2, 3).

(5) _His compassion_. "The Spirit of the Lord Jehovah is upon me;
because Jehovah hath anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek;
he hath sent me to bind up the broken-hearted, to proclaim liberty to
the captives, and the opening of the prison to them that are bound"
(Isa. 61:1).

6. HIS BETRAYAL AND TRIAL. As we approach the closing scenes of Christ's
life the prophecies become more minute and remarkable.

(1) _The betrayal_. "And I said unto them, If ye think good, give me my
hire; and if not, forbear. So they weighed for my hire thirty pieces of
silver. And Jehovah said unto me, Cast it unto the potter, the goodly
price that I was prized at by them. And I took the thirty pieces of
silver, and cast them unto the potter, in the house of Jehovah" (Zech.
11:12, 13).

(2) _His demeanor when on trial_. "He was oppressed, yet when he was
afflicted he opened not his mouth; as a lamb that is led to the
slaughter, and as a sheep that before its shearers is dumb, so he
opened not His mouth" (Isa. 53:7).

(3) _When crucified, the soldiers were to part his garments among them
and cast lots for his vesture_. "They part my garments among them, And
upon my vesture do they cast lots" (Ps. 22:18).

(4) _He was to be numbered with the transgressors._ "Therefore will I
divide him a portion with the great, and he shall divide the spoil with
the strong; because he poured out his soul unto death, and was numbered
with the transgressors; yet he bare the sin of many, and made
intercession for the transgressors" (Isa. 53:12).

(5) _He was to perish amid cruel mockings._ "But I am a worm, and no
man; a reproach of men, and despised of the people. All they that see me
laugh me to scorn: they shoot out the lip, they shake the head, saying,
Commit thyself unto Jehovah; let him deliver him: let him rescue him,
seeing he delighted in him" (Ps. 22:6-8).

7. HIS RESURRECTION AND CORONATION.

(1) _He was to rise from the dead_. "For thou wilt not leave my soul to
Sheol; neither wilt thou suffer thy holy one to see corruption" (Ps.
16:10).

(2) _His ascension was also a subject of prophecy_. "Thou hast ascended
on high, thou hast led away captives; thou hast received gifts among
men, yea, among the rebellious also, that Jehovah God might dwell with
them" (Ps. 68:18).

(3) _His coronation is foretold and described._ "I saw in the night
visions, and, behold, there came with the clouds of heaven one like unto
a son of man, and he came even to the ancient of days, and they brought
him near before him. And there was given him dominion, and glory, and a
kingdom, that all the peoples, nations, and languages should serve him:
his dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and
his kingdom that which shall not be destroyed" (Dan. 7:13, 14).

Orbilius has informed us, that he redeemed this work from the oblivion
into which it had fallen, and took care to have it published with the
author's name.

IX. ORBILIUS PUPILLUS, of Beneventum, being left an orphan, by the
death of his parents, who both fell a sacrifice to the plots of their
enemies on the same day, acted, at first, as apparitor to the
magistrates. He then joined the troops in Macedonia, when he was
first decorated with the plumed helmet [865], and, afterwards, promoted
to serve on horseback.

Having completed his military service, he resumed his studies, which he
had pursued with no small diligence from his youth upwards; and, having
been a professor for a long period in his own country, at last, during
the consulship of Cicero, made his way to Rome, where he taught with more
reputation than profit. For in one of his works he says, that "he was
then very old, and lived in a garret." He also published a book with
the title of Perialogos; containing complaints of the injurious treatment
to which professors submitted, without seeking redress at the hands of
parents. His sour temper betrayed itself, not only in his disputes
with the sophists opposed to him, whom he lashed on every occasion,
but also towards his scholars, as Horace tells us, who calls him "a
flogger;" [866] and Domitius Marsus [867], who says of him:

Si quos Orbilius ferula scuticaque cecidit.
If those Orbilius with rod or ferule thrashed.

(513) And not even men of rank escaped his sarcasms; for, before he became
noticed, happening to be examined as a witness in a crowded court,
Varro, the advocate on the other side, put the question to him,
"What he did and by what profession he gained his livelihood?"

He replied, "That he lived by removing hunchbacks from the sunshine into
the shade," alluding to Muraena's deformity. He lived till he was
near a hundred years old; but he had long lost his memory, as the
verse of Bibaculus informs us:

Orbilius ubinam est, literarum oblivio?
Where is Orbilius now, that wreck of learning lost?

His statue is shown in the Capitol at Beneventum.

It stands on the left hand, and is sculptured in marble [868], representing
him in a sitting posture, wearing the pallium, with two writing-cases
in his hand. He left a son, named also Orbilius, who, like his father,
was a professor of grammar.

X. ATTEIUS, THE PHILOLOGIST, a freedman, was born at Athens. Of him,
Capito Atteius [869], the well-known jurisconsult, says that he was a
rhetorician among the grammarians, and a grammarian among the rhetoricians.
Asinius Pollio [870], in the book in which he finds fault with the
writings of Sallust for his great affectation of obsolete words,
speaks thus: "In this work his chief assistant was a certain Atteius,
a man of rank, a splendid Latin grammarian, the aider and preceptor
of those who studied the practice of declamation; in short, one who
claimed for himself the cognomen of Philologus."

Writing to Lucius Hermas, he says, "that he had made great proficiency
in Greek literature, and some in Latin; that he had been a hearer of
Antonius Gnipho, and his Hermas [871], and afterwards began to teach
others. Moreover, that he had for pupils many illustrious youths, among
whom were the two (514) brothers, Appius and Pulcher Claudius; and
that he even accompanied them to their province."

He appears to have assumed the name of Philologus, because, like
Eratosthenes [872], who first adopted that cognomen, he was in high
repute for his rich and varied stores of learning; which, indeed, is
evident from his commentaries, though but few of them are
extant.
Another letter, however, to the same Hermas, shews that they were
very numerous: "Remember," it says, "to recommend generally our
Extracts, which we have collected, as you know, of all kinds, into
eight hundred books."

He afterwards formed an intimate acquaintance with Caius Sallustius, and,
on his death, with Asinius Pollio; and when they undertook to write
a history, he supplied the one with short annals of all Roman affairs,
from which he could select at pleasure; and the other, with rules on
the art of composition. I am, therefore, surprised that Asinius Pollio
should have supposed that he was in the habit of collecting old words
and figures of speech for Sallust, when he must have known that
his own advice was, that none but well known, and common and
appropriate expressions should be made use of; and that, above all
things, the obscurity of the style of Sallust, and his bold freedom
in translations, should be avoided.

XI. VALERIUS CATO was, as some have informed us, the freedman of one
Bursenus, a native of Gaul. He himself tells us, in his little work
called "Indignatio," that he was born free, and being left an orphan,
was exposed to be easily stripped of his patrimony during the licence
of Sylla's administrations.
I have given them thy word; and the
world hated them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of
the world. I pray not that thou shouldst take them from the world, but
that thou shouldst keep them from the evil one" (John 17:6-8, 12, 14,
15).


VI

THE SPIRIT AND THE APOSTLES


In interpreting Scripture, attention should be paid not only to the
speaker and his message, but also to the parties addressed. There are
passages that are universal in their application, others that are
national, and still others that are addressed to individuals only. Many
promises are addressed to children of God only, and do not apply to
those who are not citizens of Christ's kingdom. Again, there are
commands that are addressed solely to men in a state of condemnation,
and have no relevancy when applied to the children of God. Christ
uttered many things to his chosen ambassadors, chosen to establish his
kingdom on earth, which were never intended to be applied to any others.
It is a mistake for the Christian of to-day to make _universal_,
promises that were intended by our Lord for special individuals. It
confuses the whole scheme of redemption and makes a mystery out of
Scriptures that are perfectly clear when proper limitations are made.
Things addressed to a chosen few have been wrongly applied to all and
great confusion has resulted therefrom. It is my purpose in this chapter
to notice some of these.

The fourteenth, fifteenth and sixteenth chapters of John contain a
record of a private talk by our Lord to the twelve, and to _them alone_.
Jesus was approaching the close of his earthly ministry. He had chosen
his apostles, and they had left all to follow him. He had eaten, slept
and companied with them. He had taught them the great truths upon which
his kingdom would be founded. They had learned to depend upon him for
advice, instruction, comfort and guidance. They confessed this when they
said, "Thou hast the words of eternal life."

He was soon to leave them, and knew that they would feel that they were
"as sheep without a shepherd." He wishes them to know that they should
not be left orphaned. He tells them, "I will pray the Father, and he
shall give you _another_ Comforter that he may abide with you for ever,"
or to the remotest age. That is, as long as you shall have need of him.
The Greek word translated "for ever" does not necessarily mean unlimited
duration. It is often applied to much shorter periods, even to a
lifetime.

The word "Comforter" is a translation from the Greek word _Paracletos_,
and it is a very inadequate translation. There is no word within my
knowledge that will fully express in English the Greek word. It is much
better to Anglicize the word into the English "Paraclete." This word is
used of the Holy Spirit only four times in the New Testament, and is
only used by the Saviour in his private address to the twelve, found in
the fourteenth, fifteenth and sixteenth chapters of John. It is never
applied to the work of the Holy Spirit in relation to mankind in
general. It is promised only to the chosen, and Jesus tells them that
_the world_ can not receive "him."

This Paraclete is a distinct gift to the twelve, to take the place of
the personal presence and guidance of the leader who is preparing to
leave them.

What is the nature of this promised one? By examining the lexicons we
find that Paraclete is:

1. One called or sent to assist another.

2. One who pleads the cause of another.

3. A monitor.

4. An instructor.

5. A guide.

6. A helper.

7. A supporter.

8. A comforter.

Of this Paraclete Jesus says:

1. Whom the world _can not receive_.

2. He dwelleth with _you_ and shall be in _you_.

3. He shall teach _you_ all things.

4. He shall bring all things to _your_ remembrance whatsoever I have
spoken unto _you_.

5. He shall testify of me.

6. He shall convict the world of sin.

7. He shall convict the world of righteousness.

8. He shall convict the world of judgment.

9. He shall guide _you_ into all truth.

10. He shall show _you_ things to come.

11. He shall receive of mine and show it _unto you_.

Here we have eleven distinct things that the Paraclete is to do for the
apostles.

All these offices of the Paraclete were needed by the apostles in their
work of proclaiming Christianity and establishing the church. They were
ignorant and unlearned, humanly speaking, and could never have gone
forth to success without this supernatural Paraclete. They took no
thought what they should say, for it was given them at the proper time.
Others have to take thought. Paul tells Timothy to "study to show
thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed,
rightly dividing the word of truth." Timothy had to study because he did
not possess the Paraclete. Yet Timothy did possess the gift of the
Spirit. "For which cause I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up
the gift of God, which is in thee through the laying on of my hands" (2
Tim. 1:6).

Men to-day are required to study that they may know what to say. A
failure to observe this exhortation of the apostle is the reason why a
great many do not know what to say. The Paraclete was not only an
instructor, but he was an infallible guide. This is evident from the
fact that no apostle ever contradicted another nor said anything
foolish. I never heard a man of to-day lay claim to being guided "into
all truth by the Spirit," who did not say something foolish in the next
five minutes. If any man claims the direct guidance of the Spirit
to-day, he can not consistently deny that same claim to others. But we
have all sorts of men teaching all sorts of doctrines, often
contradicting each other. Does the Spirit guide one man to preach up
Universalism and another man to preach it down! "I don't say that
Paris hasn't its points.

But after all--the Moulin Rouge and the Folies Bergères and that sort
of thing soon pall, you know--soon pall."
"Yet Paris has its serious side," argued Aristide. "There is always
the tomb of Napoleon."
"Papa will never take me to Paris," sighed the girl.

"You shall go there on your honeymoon," said Mr.

Smith.

Dinner was announced. Aristide gave his arm to Miss Christabel, and proud
not only of his partner, but also of his frock-coat, white tie, and
shiny brown boots, strutted into the dining-room. The host sat at the end
of the beautifully set table, his daughter on his right, Aristide on
his left. The meal began gaily. The kind Mr. Smith was in the best of
humours.

"And how is our dear old friend, Jules Dancourt?"

he asked.

"_Tiens!_" said Aristide, to himself, "we have a dear friend Jules
Dancourt. Wonderfully well," he replied at a venture, "but he suffers
terribly at times from the gout."
"So do I, confound it!" said Mr. Smith, drinking sherry.

"You and the good Jules were always sympathetic," said Aristide. "Ah! he
has spoken to me so often about you, the tears in his eyes."
"Men cry, my dear, in France," Mr. Smith explained. "They also kiss each
other."

"_Ah, mais c'est un beau pays, mademoiselle!_" cried Aristide, and he began
to talk of France and to draw pictures of his country which set the
girl's eyes dancing.

After that he told some of the funny little stories which had brought him
disaster at the academy. Mr.

Smith, with jovial magnanimity, declared that he was the first
Frenchman he had ever met with a sense of humour.

"But I thought, Baron," said he, "that you lived all your life shut
up in that old château of yours?"
"_Tiens!_" thought Aristide. "I am still a Baron, and I have an old
château."
"Tell us about the château. Has it a fosse and a drawbridge and a Gothic
chapel?" asked Miss Christabel.

"Which one do you mean?" inquired Aristide, airily. "For I have two."

When relating to me this Arabian Nights' adventure, he drew my
special attention to his astuteness.

His host's eye quivered in a wink. "The one in Languedoc," said he.

Languedoc! Almost Pujol's own country! With entire lack of morality, but
with picturesque imagination, Aristide plunged into a description of
that non-existent baronial hall.

Fosse, drawbridge, Gothic chapel were but insignificant features. It had
tourelles, emblazoned gateways, bastions, donjons, barbicans; it had
innumerable rooms; in the _salle des chevaliers_ two hundred
men-at-arms had his ancestors fed at a sitting. There was the room
in which François Premier had slept, and one in which Joan of Arc
had almost been assassinated. What the name of himself or of his ancestors
was supposed to be Aristide had no ghost of an idea. But as he proceeded
with the erection of his airy palace he gradually began to believe in it.
He invested the place with a living atmosphere; conjured up a staff of
family retainers, notably one Marie-Joseph Loufoque, the wizened old
major-domo, with his long white whiskers and blue and silver livery.
There were also Madeline Mioulles, the cook, and Bernadet the groom,
and La Petite Fripette the goose girl.
Ah! they should see La Petite Fripette! And he kept dogs and horses and
cows and ducks and hens--and there was a great pond whence frogs were
drawn to be fed for the consumption of the household.

Miss Christabel shivered. "I should not like to eat frogs."
"They also eat snails," said her father.

"I have a snail farm," said Aristide. "You never saw such
interesting little animals. They are so intelligent. If you're kind to
them they come and eat out of your hand."
[Illustration: "AH! THE PICTURES," CRIED ARISTIDE, WITH A WIDE SWEEP
OF HIS ARMS]
"You've forgotten the pictures," said Mr. Smith.

"Ah! the pictures," cried Aristide, with a wide sweep of his arms.
"Galleries full of them. Raphael, Michael Angelo, Wiertz, Reynolds----"

He paused, not in order to produce the effect of a dramatic aposiopesis,
but because he could not for the moment remember other names of
painters.

"It is a truly historical château," said he.

"I should love to see it," said the girl.

Aristide threw out his arms across the table. "It is yours, mademoiselle,
for your honeymoon," said he.

Dinner came to an end. Miss Christabel left the gentlemen to their wine,
an excellent port whose English qualities were vaunted by the host.
Aristide, full of food and drink and the mellow glories of the castle
in Languedoc, and smoking an enormous cigar, felt at ease with all
the world.

He knew he should like the kind Mr. Smith, hospitable though somewhat
insular man. He could stay with him for a week--or a month--why not a
year?

After coffee and liqueurs had been served Mr. Smith rose and switched
on a powerful electric light at the end of the large room, showing a
picture on an easel covered by a curtain. He beckoned to Aristide
to join him and, drawing the curtain, disclosed the picture.

"There!" said he. "Isn't it a stunner?"
It was a picture all grey skies and grey water and grey feathery trees,
and a little man in the foreground wore a red cap.

"It is beautiful, but indeed it is magnificent!" cried Aristide, always
impressionable to things of beauty.

"Genuine Corot, isn't it?"
"Without doubt," said Aristide.

His host poked him in the ribs. "I thought I'd astonish you. You wouldn't
believe Gottschalk could have done it. There it is--as large as life and
twice as natural. If you or anyone else can tell it from a genuine
Corot I'll eat my hat. And all for eight pounds."
Aristide looked at the beefy face and caught a look of cunning
in the little pig's eyes.

"Now are you satisfied?" asked Mr. Smith.

"More than satisfied," said Aristide, though what he was to be satisfied
about passed, for the moment, his comprehension.

"If it was a copy of an existing picture, you know--one might have
understood it--that, of course, would be dangerous--but for a man
to go and get bits out of various Corots and stick them together
like this is miraculous. If it hadn't been for a matter of business
principle I'd have given the fellow eight guineas instead of pounds--hanged
if I wouldn't! He deserves it."
"He does indeed," said Aristide Pujol.

"And now that you've seen it with your own eyes, what do you think
you might ask me for it? I suggested something between two and three
thousand--shall we say three? You're the owner, you know." Again
the process of rib-digging. "Came out of that historic château
of yours. My eye! you're a holy terror when you begin to talk. You
almost persuaded me it was real."
"_Tiens!_" said Aristide to himself. "I don't seem to have a château
after all."

"Certainly three thousand," said he, with a grave face.

"That young man thinks he knows a lot, but he doesn't," said Mr.

Smith.

"Ah!" said Aristide, with singular laconicism.

"Not a blooming thing," continued his host. "But he'll pay three thousand,
which is the principal, isn't it? He's partner in the show, you know,
Ralston, Wiggins, and Wix's Brewery"--Aristide pricked up his ears--"and
when his doddering old father dies he'll be Lord Ranelagh and
come into a million of money."
"Has he seen the picture?" asked Aristide.

"Oh, yes. Regards it as a masterpiece. Didn't Brauneberger tell you
of the Lancret we planted on the American?" Mr. Smith rubbed hearty
hands at the memory of the iniquity. "Same old game. Always
easy. I have nothing to do with the bargaining or the sale. Just
an old friend of the ruined French nobleman with the historic
château and family treasures. He comes along and fixes the price. I
told our friend Harry----"
"Good," thought Aristide. "This is the same Honourable Harry,
M.P., who is engaged to the ravishing Miss Christabel."
"I told him," said Mr. Smith, "that it might come to three or four thousand.
He jibbed a bit--so when I wrote to you I said two or three.
But you might try him with three to begin with."

Aristide went back to the table and poured himself out a fresh glass of
his kind host's 1865 brandy and drank it off.

"Exquisite, my dear fellow," said he. "I've none finer in my historic
château."
"Don't suppose you have," grinned the host, joining him. He slapped him
on the back. "Well," said he, with a shifty look in his little pig's
eyes, "let us talk business. What do you think would be your fair
commission? You see, all the trouble and invention have been mine.
What do you say to four hundred pounds?"
"Five," said Aristide, promptly.

A sudden gleam came into the little pig's eyes.

"Done!" said Mr. Smith, who had imagined that the other would demand a
thousand and was prepared to pay eight hundred. "Done!" said he
again.

They shook hands to seal the bargain and drank another glass of old
brandy. At that moment, a servant, entering, took the host aside.

"Please excuse me a moment," said he, and went with the servant out of
the room.

Aristide, left alone, lighted another of his kind host's fat cigars and
threw himself into a great leathern arm-chair by the fire, and surrendered
himself deliciously to the soothing charm of the moment. Now and then he
laughed, finding a certain comicality in his position.

And what a charming father-in-law, this kind Mr. Smith!

His cheerful reflections were soon disturbed by the sudden irruption of
his host and a grizzled, elderly, foxy-faced gentleman with a white
moustache, wearing the ribbon of the Legion of Honour in the buttonhole
of his overcoat.

"Here, you!" cried the kind Mr. Smith, striding up to Aristide, with a
very red face. "Will you have the kindness to tell me who the devil you
are?"
Aristide rose, and, putting his hands behind the tails of his frock-coat,
stood smiling radiantly on the hearthrug.

A wit much less alert than my irresponsible friend's would have instantly
appreciated the fact that the real Simon Pure had arrived on the
scene.

"I, my dear friend," said he, "am the Baron de Je ne Sais Plus."
"You're a confounded impostor," spluttered Mr. Smith.

"And this gentleman here to whom I have not had the pleasure of being
introduced?" asked Aristide, blandly.

"I am M. Poiron, monsieur, the agent of Messrs. Brauneberger and
Compagnie, art dealers, of the Rue Notre Dame des Petits Champs
of Paris," said the new-comer, with an air of defiance.

"Ah, I thought you were the Baron," said Aristide.

"There's no blooming Baron at all about it!" screamed Mr. Smith. "Are
you Poiron, or is he?"
"I would not have a name like Poiron for anything in the world," said
Aristide. "My name is Aristide Pujol, soldier of fortune, at your service."

"How the blazes did you get here?"
"Your servant asked me if I was a French gentleman from Manchester. I was.
He said that Mr. Smith had sent his carriage for me. I thought it
hospitable of the kind Mr. Smith. I entered the carriage--_et voilà!_"

"Then clear out of here this very minute," said Mr. Smith, reaching
forward his hand to the bell-push.

Aristide checked his impulsive action.

"Pardon me, dear host," said he. "It is raining dogs and cats outside. I
am very comfortable in your luxurious home. I am here, and here I stay."

"I'm shot if you do," said the kind Mr. Smith, his face growing redder
and uglier. "Now, will you go out, or will you be thrown out?"

Aristide, who had no desire whatever to be ejected from this snug nest
into the welter of the wet and friendless world, puffed at his cigar,
and looked at his host with the irresistible drollery of his eyes.

"You forget, _mon cher ami_," said he, "that neither the beautiful Miss
Christabel nor her affianced, the Honourable Harry, M.P., would care
to know that the talented Gottschalk got only eight pounds, not even
guineas, for painting that three-thousand-pound picture."

"So it's blackmail, eh?"
"Precisely," said Aristide, "and I don't blush at it."
"You infernal little blackguard!"
"I seem to be in congenial company," said Aristide. "I don't think our
friend M. Poiron has more scruples than he has right to the
ribbon of the Legion of Honour which he is wearing."
"How much will you take to go out? I have a cheque-book handy."
Mr. Smith moved a few steps from the hearthrug. Aristide sat down in
the arm-chair. An engaging, fantastic impudence was one of the charms
of Aristide Pujol.

"I'll take five hundred pounds," said he, "to stay in."
"Stay in?" Mr. Smith grew apoplectic.

"Yes," said Aristide. "You can't do without me. Your daughter and your
servants know me as M. le Baron--by the way, what is my name? And where
is my historic château in Languedoc?"
"Mireilles," said M. Poiron, who was sitting grim and taciturn on one
of the dining-room chairs. "And the place is the same, near Montpellier."

"I like to meet an intelligent man," said Aristide.

"I should like to wring your infernal neck," said the kind Mr.
Smith.
"But, by George, if we do let you in you'll have to sign me a receipt
implicating yourself up to the hilt. I'm not going to be put into
the cart by you, you can bet your life."
"Anything you like," said Aristide, "so long as we all swing together."

* * * * *
Now, when Aristide Pujol arrived at this point in his narrative I,
his chronicler, who am nothing if not an eminently respectable, law-abiding
Briton, took him warmly to task for his sheer absence of moral sense.

His eyes, as they sometimes did, assumed a luminous pathos.

[Illustration: "I'LL TAKE FIVE HUNDRED POUNDS," SAID HE, "TO STAY
IN"]
"My dear friend," said he, "have you ever faced the world in a foreign
country in December with no character and fifteen pounds five and
three-pence in your pocket? Five hundred pounds was a fortune. It is
one now. And to be gained just by lending oneself to a good farce, which
didn't hurt anybody. You and your British morals! Bah!" said he,
with a fine flourish.

* * * * *
Aristide, after much parleying, was finally admitted into the nefarious
brotherhood. He was to retain his rank as the Baron de Mireilles, and
play the part of the pecuniarily inconvenienced nobleman forced to sell
some of his rare collection. Mr. Smith had heard of the Corot
through their dear old common friend, Jules Dancourt of Rheims, had
mentioned it alluringly to the Honourable Harry, had arranged for the
Baron, who was visiting England, to bring it over and dispatch it to
Mr. Smith's house, and on his return from Manchester to pay a visit
to Mr. Smith, so that he could meet the Honourable Harry in person. In
whatever transaction ensued Mr. Smith, so far as his prospective
son-in-law was concerned, was to be the purely disinterested friend.
It was Aristide's wit which invented a part for the supplanted M.
Poiron. He should be the eminent Parisian expert who, chancing to be in
London, had been telephoned for by the kind Mr. Smith.

"It would not be wise for M.

Poiron," said Aristide, chuckling inwardly with puckish glee, "to
stay here for the night--or for two or three days--or a week--like
myself. He must go back to his hotel when the business is concluded."

"_Mais, pardon!_" cried M. Poiron, who had been formally invited,
and had arrived late solely because he had missed his train at
Manchester, and come on by the next one. "I cannot go out into the
wet, and I have no hotel to go to."
Aristide appealed to his host. "But he is unreasonable, _cher ami_.
He must play his _rôle_. M. Poiron has been telephoned for. He can't
possibly stay here. Surely five hundred pounds is worth one little
night of discomfort? And there are a legion of hotels in London."

"Five hundred pounds!" exclaimed M. Poiron. "_Qu'est-ce que vous
chantez là?_ I want more than five hundred pounds."
"Then you're jolly well not going to get it," cried Mr. Smith, in
a rage. "And as for you"--he turned on Aristide--"I'll wring your
infernal neck yet."
"Calm yourself, calm yourself!" smiled Aristide, who was enjoying
himself hugely.
At this moment the door opened and Miss Christabel appeared. On
seeing the decorated stranger she started with a little "Oh!" of
surprise.

"I beg your pardon."
Mr. Smith's angry face wreathed itself in smiles.
"This, my darling, is M. Poiron, the eminent Paris expert, who has
been good enough to come and give us his opinion on the picture."
M. Poiron bowed. Aristide advanced.
"Mademoiselle, your appearance is like a mirage in a desert."
She smiled indulgently and turned to her father. "I've been wondering
what had become of you. Harry has been here for the last half-hour."

"Bring him in, dear child, bring him in!" said Mr. Smith, with all
the heartiness of the fine old English gentleman. "Our good friends
are dying to meet him."
The girl flickered out of the room like a sunbeam (the phrase is
Aristide's), and the three precious rascals put their heads together
in a hurried and earnest colloquy. Presently Miss Christabel returned,
and with her came the Honourable Harry Ralston, a tall, soldierly
fellow, with close-cropped fair curly hair and a fair moustache,
and frank blue eyes that, even in Parliament, had seen no harm in
his fellow-creatures.
Aristide's magical vision caught him wincing ever so little at
Mr.
Smith's effusive greeting and overdone introductions. He shook
Aristide warmly by the hand.
"You have a beauty there, Baron, a perfect beauty," said he, with
the insane ingenuousness of youth. "I wonder how you can manage to
part with it."
"_Ma foi_," said Aristide, with his back against the end of the
dining-table and gazing at the masterpiece. "I have so many at the
Château de Mireilles. When one begins to collect, you know--and
when one's grandfather and father have had also the divine mania----"

"You were saying, M. le Baron," said M. Poiron of Paris, "that your
respected grandfather bought this direct from Corot himself."
"A commission," said Aristide. "My grandfather was a patron of
Corot." 
"Do you like it, dear?" asked the Honourable Harry.
"Oh, yes!" replied the girl, fervently. "It is beautiful. I feel
like Harry about it." She turned to Aristide. "How can you part
with it? Were you really in earnest when you said you would like
me to come and see your collection?"
"For me," said Aristide, "it would be a visit of enchantment."
"You must take me, then," she whispered to Harry. "The Baron has
been telling us about his lovely old château."
"Will you come, monsieur?" asked Aristide.
"Since I'm going to rob you of your picture," said the young man,
with smiling courtesy, "the least I can do is to pay you a visit
of apology.
Lovely!" said he, going up to the Corot.
Aristide took Miss Christabel, now more bewitching than ever with
the glow of young love in her eyes and a flush on her cheek, a step
or two aside and whispered:--
"But he is charming, your fiancé! He almost deserves his good
fortune." 
"Why almost?" she laughed, shyly.
"It is not a man, but a demi-god, that would deserve you, mademoiselle."
M. Poiron's harsh voice broke out.
"You see, it is painted in the beginning of Corot's later manner--it
is 1864. There is the mystery which, when he was quite an old man,
became a trick. If you were to put it up to auction at Christie's
it would fetch, I am sure, five thousand pounds."
"That's more than I can afford to give," said the young man, with
a laugh. "Mr. Smith mentioned something between three and four
thousand pounds. I don't think I can go above three."
"I have nothing to do with it, my dear boy, nothing whatever," said
Mr.
Smith, rubbing his hands. "You wanted a Corot. I said I thought I
could put you on to one. It's for the Baron here to mention his
price. I retire now and for ever."
"Well, Baron?" said the young man, cheerfully. "What's your idea?"

Aristide came forward and resumed his place at the end of the table.
The picture was in front of him beneath the strong electric light;
on his left stood Mr. Smith and Poiron, on his right Miss Christabel
and the Honourable Harry.
"I'll not take three thousand pounds for it," said Aristide. "A
picture like that! Never!"
"I assure you it would be a fair price," said Poiron.
"You mentioned that figure yourself only just now," said Mr. Smith,
with an ugly glitter in his little pig's eyes.
"I presume, gentlemen," said Aristide, "that this picture is my own
property." He turned engagingly to his host. "Is it not, _cher
ami_?" 
"Of course it is. Who said it wasn't?"
"And you, M. Poiron, acknowledge formally that it is mine," he
asked, in French.

"_Sans aucun doute._"
"_Eh bien_," said Aristide, throwing open his arms and gazing round
sweetly. "I have changed my mind. I do not sell the picture at all."

"Not sell it? What the--what do you mean?" asked Mr. Smith, striving
to mellow the gathering thunder on his brow.
"I do not sell," said Aristide. "Listen, my dear friends!" He was
in the seventh heaven of happiness--the principal man, the star,
taking the centre of the stage. "I have an announcement to make to
you. I have fallen desperately in love with mademoiselle."
There was a general gasp. Mr. Smith looked at him, red-faced and
open-mouthed. Miss Christabel blushed furiously and emitted a sound
half between a laugh and a scream. Harry Ralston's eyes flashed.
"My dear sir----" he began.
"Pardon," said Aristide, disarming him with the merry splendour of
his glance. "I do not wish to take mademoiselle from you. My love
is hopeless! I know it. But it will feed me to my dying day. In
return for the joy of this hopeless passion I will not sell you the
picture--I give it to you as a wedding present."Philip went to the city of Samaria and
preached Christ to them. "But when they believed Philip preaching good
tidings concerning the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, they
were baptized, both men and women" (Acts 8:12). "For as yet _the Holy
Spirit was fallen upon none of them_: only they had been baptized into
the name of the Lord Jesus" (Acts 8:16). If the gift of the Spirit is to
all baptized believers, why did not the Samaritans receive it? Philip
was not an apostle and did not have the power to confer "the gift of the
Spirit" by the imposition of hands, and, in order that they might
receive this "gift," it was necessary that two apostles, Peter and John,
should go to Samaria and lay hands on them, that they might receive the
Spirit. Here is a clear case of baptized believers receiving the Holy
Spirit by the imposition of hands.

_Disciples at Ephesus_. In Acts 19 Paul met certain disciples that had
received the baptism of John. He showed them that John did not preach a
full gospel, which embraced a belief in Christ. "And when they heard
this, they were baptized into the name of the Lord Jesus, and when Paul
had _laid his hands upon them_, the Holy Spirit came on them." This is
another clear case of the Spirit being given by the imposition of hands.

_Timothy_. In 2 Tim. 1:6 Paul tells Timothy: "For which cause I put thee
in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God, which is in thee
through the _laying on of my hands_." This is a third instance of the
gift of the Spirit by the imposition of hands, and they form just _three
more instances_ than can be found of the Spirit taking his personal
"abode in men because they have believed and been baptized."

That the Spirit was imparted to many Christians in a similar way is
clear. Paul tells the brethren at Borne: "For I long to see you, that I
may impart unto you some _spiritual gift_, to the end that ye may be
established." It was not necessary that he see these brethren to the
end that he might proclaim the gospel unto them; but it _was necessary_
that he see them that he might lay hands on them and _impart the gift_
of the Spirit.

In Mark 16:17, 18 Jesus concludes the commission as follows: "And these
signs shall accompany them that believe: in my name shall they cast out
demons; they shall speak with new tongues; they shall take up serpents,
and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall in no wise hurt them; they
shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover." Here is clearly
the promise of supernatural power which he calls "signs." Signs of what?
There is but one answer that can be given: signs of the indwelling of
God's Spirit by which alone they could work these signs. Are these signs
in existence to-day? No thoughtful reader will so affirm. If the
manifestations of the Spirit have ceased, is it not reasonable that the
"gift" has also ceased? If not, we have the remarkable fact of the
Spirit dwelling in man and not being able to _manifest any signs_ of his
indwelling.

We are now enabled to reach two conclusions of importance: First, the
"gift of the Spirit" was a supernatural gift for the purpose of enabling
the "believers" in apostolic days to work the "signs" which Christ said
should accompany them that believe, and ceased when the signs ceased.
Second, many of the exhortations of the New Testament writers were to a
church whose members were filled with the supernatural power of the
Spirit, and should be interpreted in the light of that fact. We give a
few examples that fall under this head: "Declared to be the Son of God
with power, according to the spirit of holiness" (Rom. 1:4). "But ye are
... in the Spirit, if so be that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you"
(Rom. 8:9). "Ourselves also, who have the first-fruits of the Spirit"
(Rom. 8:23). "My conscience bearing witness with me in the Holy Spirit"
(Rom. 9:1). "Now I beseech you, brethren, by our Lord Jesus Christ, and
by the love of the Spirit" (Rom. 15:30). "Now he that wrought us for
this very thing is God, who gave unto us the earnest of the Spirit" (2
Cor. 5:5). "Ye were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise, which is an
earnest of our inheritance" (Eph. 1:13, 14). "Through him we both have
our access in one Spirit unto the Father" (Eph. 2:18). "Be filled with
the Spirit" (Eph. 5:18). "If there is therefore any ... fellowship of
the Spirit" (Phil. 2:1). "Therefore he that rejecteth, rejecteth ...
God, who giveth his Holy Spirit unto you" (1 Thess. 4:8). "For God gave
us not a spirit, of fearfulness; but of power and love and discipline"
(2 Tim. 1:7). "He saved us through the washing of regeneration and
renewing of the Holy Spirit" (Tit. 3:5). "God also bearing witness with
them, both by signs and wonders and by manifold powers, and by gifts of
the Holy Spirit" (Heb. 2:4). "Doth the spirit which he made to dwell in
us long unto envying?" (Jas. 4:5). "Ye have an anointing from the Holy
One" (1 John 2: 20). "The anointing which ye received of him abideth in
you" (1 John 2:27). "He hath given us of his Spirit" (1 John 4:13).

All the above Scriptures become clear if we understand them to apply to
a people through whom God was manifesting his presence by supernatural
demonstrations, but many of them lack meaning when applied to people of
God who no longer exhibit these supernatural powers.


VIII

THE SPIRIT AND THE WORLD


Hitherto we have been treating the Holy Spirit in terms of the past, but
now we come to the present tense. Is the Holy Spirit a power in the
present age? If so, what kind of a power? Is he making an issue with men
as a direct power and working upon them immediately, or is he working
through an instrumentality, and, if so, what is the instrumentality?

The Spirit is undoubtedly dealing with two classes of persons in his
work to-day.

First, those who are not believers, and therefore unconverted and
"aliens from the commonwealth of Israel."

Second, those who have believed and obeyed the gospel, and are therefore
children of God.

We shall devote this chapter to the influence of the Spirit upon the
unbelieving world.

In the very nature of things, the work of the Spirit is to make
believers out of unbelievers, and convert the perverted. We all believe
this. We believe that all believers are made by the power of the Spirit.
We differ about whether he exercises that power directly from himself to
the individual soul, or whether he exercises that power through the
gospel, through the apostles and through Christ's word of truth. Reason,
philosophy and experience exhausted themselves in discovering but two
methods by which one spirit can exercise an influence over another.

First, a direct mechanical, immediate influence taking possession of the
will and influencing the mind of and controlling the speech and actions
of the subject. This takes place in hypnotism and is supposed to take
place in clairvoyance and clairaudience.

Second, a rational moral influence exerted by ideas impressed upon the
mind by teaching and words that represent ideas.

There is, there can be, no third way by which one spirit can influence
another. You may study till you are gray-headed or bald-headed, for
that matter, and you will discover no other way.

The Holy Spirit has used both of these methods in the past.

1. In the case of the apostles and prophets, he immediately,
mechanically and directly controlled their actions and speech, so much
so that Jesus told them that under the influence of the Spirit they
should take no thought what they should say. "For it is not ye that
speak, but the Holy Spirit" (Mark 13:11). "And they were all filled with
the Holy Spirit, and began to speak with other tongues, as the Spirit
gave them utterance" (Acts 2:4).

2. In the case of the men to whom the apostles preached on the day of
Pentecost, the Spirit used a rational moral influence through the words
of Peter's sermon, which conveyed ideas that swayed their minds and
hearts. It is claimed by some that both of these methods are used by the
Spirit to-day. The modern teaching concerning the first of these
influences is well set forth in the following selection from a widely
known book by L.B. Dunn, entitled "The Mission of the Spirit": "Even
where the light of the gospel does not shine, and the institutions of
the gospel are not enjoyed, there the Spirit acts directly upon man's
heart and conscience, writes the law of God upon his mind, gives him the
sense of sin and the need of forgiveness. Hence, wherever man is, there
the Comforter is at work upon his heart and mind. The divine influence
is imparted _unconditionally_ and _irresistibly_. The Holy Spirit is
ever employed to bring man back to God; and _whether he desires it or
not_, whether he is _willing_ or _unwilling_, still the Comforter comes
to him with his heavenly illumination, his divine influence, convincing
him of sin, and his consequent need of the mercy of God. May I not truly
say that man really _has no choice_ in the matter as to whether he will
or will not have this divine influence upon his soul? _He is, he must
be_, enlightened and convinced, _whether he will hear or forbear_,
whether he _will be saved or damned_. He _can not prevent_ the entrance
of the Spirit into his heart."

In connection with the above we quote also from a sermon in "The
Baptist Pulpit," by Rev. J.W. Hayhurst: "God has given us no means by
which the conversion of sinners, or the general revival of religion, can
be effected, irrespective of the _direct_ agency of the Spirit. The
gospel itself _will not do it_."

These quotations give us a pretty clear and explicit statement of the
theory of the direct mechanical and _immediate_ operation of the Holy
Spirit upon the human spirit.

The second method is aptly stated by an editorial which appeared in the
_Sunday School Times_ during the year 1908: "It is a strange fact that,
notwithstanding the _explicitness_ and _uniformity_ of the New Testament
teachings on this subject, there is a widespread popular opinion that
the Holy Spirit's work is directly and immediately on or in the heart of
the unbeliever, without the intervention or agency of the Christian
whatever. To hear what is said in the sermons, or sung in the hymns, or
prayed in the prayers of many Christians, one might believe that the
Holy Spirit is sent directly to the unbelieving sinner, to strive with
him, to show him his sin, and to point him to, the Saviour; and that
therefore the Christian preacher or teacher has rather to wait the
results of this work of the Spirit, than to be the instrument or the
avenue of this work. Many a Christian seems to think that the Holy
Spirit's work is that of a _revival preacher_, in moving sinners to
repentance by a _direct appeal_ to their consciences and understandings,
instead of stirring up Christians to appeal, in the power of the Spirit,
to unbelievers to believe and turn to God. It is true that, in this
present dispensation of the Spirit, all power in the evangelizing of the
world, and in the swaying of the hearts of men toward Christ and in the
service of Christ, is primarily with the Holy Spirit. But it is also
true that the Holy Spirit, according to the Bible teachings, works _in
and by and through_ believers in Jesus. Hence if one who is not a
believer in Jesus is to be won to discipleship, the question is not,
'Will the Holy Spirit work on his mind immediately, or will the Holy
Spirit work through one who already believes?' for that question _the
Bible has already answered_. The Holy Spirit can use the written words,
like the spoken words, of a chosen messenger of God to an unbelieving
soul. But in every case _the Spirit reaches the believer mediately, not
immediately_."

Now, these theories are directly contradictory. If one is true, the
other can not be. The only question to decide is as to which one is
true. Let us examine these theories in the light of reason, revelation
and experience. If the Holy Spirit works directly and immediately on the
heart of man, surely there should be some tangible evidence of it given
in such a striking way as to demonstrate the truth of the theory. But
the experience of Christendom for nineteen centuries fails to furnish a
single unquestioned evidence of it. The proof of the theory is made to
hinge upon far-fetched inferences drawn from Scripture statements, and
even these fail to furnish the evidence sought. Let us notice some of
the Scriptures that are relied upon to prove a direct operation of the
Spirit in the conversion of sinners:

1. "A new heart also will I give you, and a new spirit will I put within
you; and I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh, and I will
give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my Spirit within you, and
cause you to walk in my statutes, and ye shall keep mine ordinances, and
do them" (Ezek. 36:26, 27). This passage has been much relied upon to
prove the theory of an abstract operation of the Spirit upon the sinner
in conversion. Its failure to support the theory is evidenced by the
following facts:

(1) The Lord was not talking about the conversion of a sinner, but the
renewal of Israel as a people.

(2) The passage says nothing about the work of the Holy Spirit.

(3) There is nothing mentioned in the passage that could not have been
accomplished by ordinary means.

(4) The very point to be proven is assumed.

2. "But their minds were hardened: for until this very day at the
reading of the old covenant the same veil remaineth, it not being
revealed to them that it is done away in Christ. But unto this day,
whensoever Moses is read, a veil lieth upon their heart. But whensoever
_it shall turn to the Lord_, the veil is taken away" (2 Cor. 3:14-16).
Just what is found here to prove a direct operation of the Spirit would
be difficult to say. The apostle is speaking of the Jews reading the
Scriptures with a veil which blinds them. The veil was undoubtedly a
false interpretation, which prevented their _seeing Christ_ in their
Scriptures. If they had not this wrong interpretation, they would see
Christ and their Scriptures would _be plain._ As it was, they were dark
and mysterious. The apostle tells what will remove the veil: "_When they
shall turn to the Lord_," the veil shall be _taken away_. There is
nothing in the whole passage that even hints at an immediate operation
of the Spirit.

3. "For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works,
which God afore prepared that we should walk in them" (Eph. 2:10). There
is nothing here to even hint at a direct operation. It says the
Ephesians were created in Christ Jesus (not in the Holy Spirit) unto
good works. If the reader wishes to learn by what means they were so
created, let him turn to chapter 1, verse 13, and he will obtain the
information: "In whom ye also, _having heard_ the word of the truth,
_the gospel_ of your salvation,--in whom, _having also believed_, ye
were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise." That is something to the
point. They "heard the word of truth," the gospel of their salvation.
Then, _after they believed_, they "were sealed with the Holy Spirit of
promise." There is nothing in the passage to warrant the teaching of a
special operation to enable them to believe.

4. "And a certain woman named Lydia, a seller of purple, of the city of
Thyatira, one that worshipped God, heard us: whose heart the Lord opened
to give heed unto the things which were spoken by Paul" (Acts 16:14).
This is relied upon to prove a direct work of the Spirit upon Lydia that
she might _hear_ and _believe_. The very thing to be proved is again
assumed. True, the Lord opened Lydia's heart, but he didn't do so that
she might "receive the word," for Paul had already preached it to her.
Her heart was opened that "she gave heed to the things spoken by Paul."
Before she heard Paul she had a narrow, bigoted Jewish heart. After she
heard the preaching, her heart was opened to attend to the things she
had heard. That is, she obeyed the gospel. Nothing about the Holy Spirit
in the entire history.

5. "And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter,
that he may be with you for ever, even the Spirit of truth: whom the
world cannot receive; for it beholdeth him not, neither knoweth him: ye
know him; for he abideth with you, and shall be in you" (John 14:16,
17). As I have elsewhere shown, this passage has a private and peculiar
application to the apostles, and not to the world of mankind. It
specifically states that "the world cannot receive" this Comforter. That
kills it as a proof-text that the world "must receive it" before it can
believe. Those who affirm a direct operation of the Spirit on "the
world" make a clear-cut issue with the Saviour.

6. "I planted, Apollos watered; but God gave the increase" (1 Cor. 3:6).
Those who use this to prove a special operation of the Spirit make it
mean, "I have planted _the word_ and Apollos has watered it, but God by
a special work of the Holy Spirit makes the increase of the word." This
is a false interpretation, as the apostle was not speaking of "the word"
at all. How could Apollos "_water the word_"? The apostle was speaking
of the _congregation_ at Corinth, which he had planted and Apollos had
tended, and which, under the care of God, had made increase. There is
nothing in the passage about the Holy Spirit.

7. "While Peter yet spake these words, the Holy Spirit fell on all them
that heard the word" (Acts 10:44). This has reference to God's
signifying his acceptance of the Gentiles by an outpouring similar to
the one on the day of Pentecost. It was purely a supernatural act, and
has never been repeated since that day. But even then it would not
prove the necessity of an operation of the Spirit, that men might _hear
the gospel_ and believe it. The record says "it fell on all them that
_heard the word."_ Cornelius was told by the angel to send for Peter,
"who shall tell thee words whereby thou shalt be saved."

8. "Now the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God:
for they are foolishness unto him; and he cannot know them, because they
are spiritually judged. But he that is spiritual judgeth all things, and
he himself is judged of no man" (1 Cor. 2:14, 15). This is held to be
one of the strongest passages to confirm the teaching of the necessity
of a direct operation of the Holy Spirit to enable a man to hear and to
believe the gospel. A brief examination of the context will show that
such an idea was not in the mind of the apostle at all. The apostle is
not even speaking of _conversion_ when he uses the language. He is
speaking of _inspiration_. The spiritual man in Paul's mind was a man
inspired by the Spirit, and the natural man was an uninspired man. If
the reader will turn to the ninth verse of the chapter and read to the
conclusion of the chapter, and place "uninspired" where he finds
"natural," and "inspired" where "spiritual" is found, the passage will
be as clear as a sunbeam. "The things of the Spirit" are things produced
by the Spirit, which needed an inspired man to explain. The day of
Pentecost was a "thing of the Spirit," and there was not an uninspired
man in all that great throng that could understand it. The best solution
they could give was, "These men are drunk," but Peter, an inspired man,
explained in inspired language that "this is that which was spoken by
the prophet Joel: It shall come to pass in the last days, saith God,
that I will pour out of my Spirit upon all flesh." When these natural
(uninspired) men heard Peter's (inspired) spiritual explanation, they
could understand it. They did understand it and obeyed it to the number
of three thousand. Nebuchadnezzar's vision was a "thing of the Spirit,"
and there was not a natural (uninspired) man in all his realm that
could interpret it. But Daniel, a spiritual (inspired) man, explained it
in spiritual language and then all could understand it. There is nothing
in the passage to support the theory of a direct operation to enable man
to understand the gospel.

9. "Him did God exalt with his right hand to be a Prince and a Saviour,
to give repentance to Israel, and remission of sins" (Acts 5:31). This
passage is used because it speaks of Christ giving repentance. They
infer that is done by a direct operation of the Spirit. But the passage
says nothing as to _how_ he grants repentance. Christ gives many things
that are not the result of a direct operation of the Spirit. The very
next verse says God gives "the Holy Spirit to all them _that obey_ him."
This directly contradicts the theory of the necessity of a direct
operation of the Spirit to enable men to obey him.

10. "No man can come to me, except the Father that sent me draw him: and
I will raise him up in the last day" (John 6:44). This is greatly relied
upon to show the necessity of an irresistible drawing before men can
come to Christ. The word "draw," in the Scriptures, is a translation of
two words in the original. One means to draw by force, "to drag;" the
other means to "entice, allure or persuade"--that men are drawn by moral
arguments, or "allured." In the next verse Christ tells how men are
drawn. "Every one that hath heard from the Father, and hath learned,
cometh unto me." Christ draws men by "_teaching_," and they come as
result of "_learning_." That is why he told his disciples to "go teach
all nations." That is Christ's method of drawing.

Now, I have selected ten of the strongest passages in the New Testament
that support the theory of a direct operation of the Spirit before men
are qualified to hear and obey the gospel. If it is not taught in the
above passages, it is not taught in the Bible. When rightly considered,
not one of them even leans toward the theory. Are we not justified in
saying that the theory is not supported by the Scriptures! Now, how are
persons made believers? Hear the word of God:

1. "For I am not ashamed of the gospel: for it is the power of God unto
salvation to every one that believeth; to the Jew first, and also to the
Greek" (Rom. 1:16). Now, here is the unequivocal statement that God's
power to save is lodged in the gospel. In all ages of Christianity there
is not a record of a single soul ever being saved without the presence
of this power. But this is not a magical power. It must be _heard_ in
order that it produce faith. But how shall they _hear_ without a
preacher and how shall he _preach_ except he be _sent_? The order is,
then, (1) send, (2) preach, (3) hear, (4) believe, (5) obey, (6) saved.
Now, this is the order of the Saviour's commission to his followers. "Go
preach the gospel to every creature; he that believeth and is baptized
shall be saved." That is our marching order to-day.

2. "Now these were more noble than those in Thessalonica, in that they
received the word with all readiness of mind, _examining the scriptures_
daily, whether these things were so. _Many of them therefore believed_;
also of the Greek women of honorable estate, and of men, not a few"
(Acts 17:11, 12). Here were believers made by searching the Scriptures
and by receiving the Word with all "readiness of mind." The same method
will make believers of unbelievers to-day.

3. "For though ye have ten thousand tutors in Christ, yet have ye not
many fathers; for in Christ Jesus I begat you through the gospel" (1
Cor. 4:15). No clearer statement could be made as to the power exercised
in begetting men to a new life. They are begotten through the gospel.

4. "Of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth, that we
should be a kind of first-fruits of his creatures" (Jas. 1:18). This is
as clear as the one above it. We are brought forth by the Word of truth.

5. "For this people's heart is waxed gross, And their ears are dull of
hearing, And their eyes they have closed; Lest haply they should
perceive with their eyes, And hear with their ears, And understand with
their heart, And should turn again, And I should heal them" (Matt.
13:15). To be healed, one must be converted; to be converted, one must
understand with the heart; to understand with the heart, one must
perceive and hear. But the people the Lord mentions were not healed.
Why? Because they were not converted. Why were they not converted?
Because they had not perceived with their eyes and heard with their
ears. Why had they not seen and heard! "Their ears are dull of hearing,
And their eyes they have closed; Lest at any time they should see with
their eyes, And hear with their ears." Men talk of the Bible being a
sealed book. They would better talk of sealed _eyes, ears_ and _hearts_,
as does the Saviour.


IX

THE SPIRIT AND CHRISTIANS


It has been aptly and truthfully said that "no importance can be
attached to a religion that is not begun, carried on and completed by
the Spirit of God." That the Christian is led, guided and strengthened
by the Spirit can not be denied by any Bible reader. To deny the fact
that the Spirit dwells in us is to deny the Bible. But it is asserted
with equal clearness in the Divine Word that _God dwells in us_. "And
what agreement hath a temple of God with idols? for we are a temple of
the living God; even as God said, I will _dwell in them_, and walk in
them; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people" (2 Cor.
6:16). This not only says that God will dwell in us, but that he _walks
in us_. It is also clearly taught that _Christ dwells in us_. "That
Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith; to the end that ye,
being rooted and grounded in love" (Eph. 3:17).

Now, if God, Christ and the Spirit dwell in us, is there any teaching
that the Spirit dwells in us in a different sense from that in which the
Father and the Son dwell in us? How, then, does the Father dwell in us?
By referring to Lev. 26:12, from which Paul quoted, we find that God
promised to be in communion with Israel, but there is nothing in the
passage to show his personal indwelling in any one person. How does
Christ dwell in us? The passage above quoted says, "Christ shall dwell
in your hearts by faith;" more correctly rendered, "the faith" or _the
gospel_. How does the Spirit dwell in us? In Gal. 3:2, Paul asks the
Galatians: "Received ye the Spirit by the works of the law, or by the
_hearing of the faith_?"--or the gospel. The above Scriptures clearly
teach that when the words, thoughts and Spirit of God are controlling in
our lives, _God dwells in us_; that when the gospel controls us, _Christ
dwells in us_; that when we receive the gospel by the hearing of faith,
_the Spirit dwells in us_.

Now, what reason has any man for declaring that the Spirit dwells in us
in any other way, unless he can point to an explicit declaration of
God's word defining and explaining that other way? This can not be done,
for there is no such passage. "But," says one, "I do not have to depend
upon the Word. I know it by my own consciousness." It is a principle as
old as metaphysics that consciousness does not take cognizance of
causes, but of effects. You may be conscious of an effect within you,
but you can not be conscious of the cause that produced the effect.
Suppose you are lying asleep on the ground; you are suddenly awakened by
a severe pain in your lower limb; consciousness tells you that you are
suffering pain, but it does not tell you what produced that pain. This
must be decided by _reason_ or _faith_. If you find a thorn in the grass
where your limb was resting, _reason_ says the thorn _stuck you_; if you
find a bumblebee mashed in the grass, _reason_ will say the insect
_stung you_; or, if some one near you says a boy with a pin in his hand
ran away from you, _faith_ will say the boy _stuck you_. But in either
case it was reason or faith that decided the cause of your pain. Now,
when a man says, "I am conscious of the presence of the Holy Spirit
within me," he simply means, "I am conscious of a _feeling_ within me
which I _have been taught_ was caused by the Holy Spirit." If the man
has been taught wrong, he assigns a _wrong cause_ for the feeling. What
is the feeling usually assigned for the presence of the Holy Spirit's
personal indwelling? It is a feeling of joy, peace and love. But can not
such feeling be excited by other causes? We know there are dozens of
causes that will produce such feelings. In the absence of clear
testimony, what right has any one to attribute such feeling to the
personal presence of the Holy Spirit? A man is found murdered. The
testimony shows that any one of a dozen men could have killed him. Is
there an intelligent jury in the land that would convict any one of the
men of being the murderer? What would you think of a jury that would
render such a verdict?

"Well," says one, "what of the great numbers who pray for a 'Pentecostal
revival'? Are they all wrong?" Not wrong in what they _want_, but wrong
in _what they call it_. All that those people desire, is to be filled
with a _genuine revival of religious enthusiasm_. Their mistake is in
calling it a "Pentecostal shower." A Pentecostal shower would lead every
preacher under its influence to say, with the apostle Peter, to
inquiring sinners: "_Repent, and be baptised every one of you in the
name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins_." This is what they are
careful _not to say_. It is a clear evidence that the Spirit which
guided Peter is not guiding them. I assert it to be a fact that
everything that is claimed to be effected by a personal indwelling of
the Spirit is as clearly accomplished by the Spirit acting through the
word of God.

CHAPTER XL [Piteous Relics at Chamonix]
I am not so ignorant about glacial movement, now, as I was when I took
passage on the Gorner Glacier.

I have "read up" since.

I am aware that these vast bodies of ice do not travel at the same
rate of speed; while the Gorner Glacier makes less than an inch a
day, the Unter-Aar Glacier makes as much as eight; and still other
glaciers are said to go twelve, sixteen, and even twenty inches a
day.

One writer says that the slowest glacier travels twenty-give feet
a year, and the fastest four hundred.

What is a glacier? It is easy to say it looks like a frozen river which
occupies the bed of a winding gorge or gully between mountains. But that
gives no notion of its vastness.

For it is sometimes six hundred feet thick, and we are not accustomed
to rivers six hundred feet deep; no, our rivers are six feet, twenty
feet, and sometimes fifty feet deep; we are not quite able to grasp
so large a fact as an ice-river six hundred feet deep.

The glacier's surface is not smooth and level, but has deep swales
and swelling elevations, and sometimes has the look of a tossing
sea whose turbulent billows were frozen hard in the instant of their
most violent motion; the glacier's surface is not a flawless mass,
but is a river with cracks or crevices, some narrow, some gaping
wide.

Many a man, the victim of a slip or a misstep, has plunged down on
of these and met his death.

"Through _thy precepts_ I get
understanding: Therefore I hate every false way" (Ps. 119:104).

8. He might quicken us.

But he does that through the Word. "This is my comfort in my affliction;
For _thy word_ hath quickened me" (Ps. 119: 50).

9. He might save us.

But he does that through the Word. "Wherefore putting away all
filthiness and overflowing of wickedness, receive with meekness the
_implanted word_ which is able to save your souls" (Jas. 1:21).

10. He might sanctify us.

But he does this through the Word. "Sanctify them in the truth: _thy
word_ is truth" (John 17:17).

11. He might purify us.

But he does that through the Word. "Seeing ye have purified your souls
in your obedience to _the truth_ unto unfeigned love of the brethren,
love one another from the heart fervently" (1 Pet. 1:22).

12. He might cleanse us.

But he does that through the Word. "Already ye are clean because of _the
word_ which I have spoken unto you" (John 15:3).

13. He might make us free from sin.

But he does that through the Word. "But thanks be to God, that whereas
ye were servants of sin, ye became obedient from the heart to that _form
of teaching_ whereunto ye were delivered; and being made free from sin,
ye became servants of righteousness" (Rom. 6:17, 18).

14. He might impart a divine nature.

But he does that through the Word. "Whereby he hath granted unto us his
precious and exceeding _great promises;_ that through these ye may
become _partakers of the divine nature_, having escaped from the
corruption that is in the world by lust" (2 Pet. 1:4).

15. He might fit us for glory.

But he does that through the Word. "And now I commend you to God, and to
_the word_ of his grace, _which is able to build you up_, and to give
you the inheritance among all them that are sanctified" (Acts 20:32).

16. He might strengthen us.

But he does that by his Word. "Strengthen me according to thy word" (Ps.
119:28).

In the above cases we have covered all the conceivable things a direct
indwelling Spirit could do for one, and have also shown that all these
things the Spirit does through the word of God. It is not claimed that a
direct indwelling of the Spirit makes any new revelations, adds any new
reasons or offers any new motives than are found in the word of God. Of
what use, then, would a direct indwelling Spirit be? Servius [854] having
clandestinely obtained his father-in-law's book before it was published,
was disowned for the fraud, which he took so much to heart, that,
overwhelmed with shame and distress, he retired from Rome; and being
seized with a fit of the gout, in his impatience, he applied a poisonous
ointment to his feet, which half-killed him, so that his lower limbs
mortified while he was still alive.

After this, more attention was paid to the science of letters, and
it grew in public estimation, insomuch, that men of the highest
rank did not hesitate in undertaking to write something on the
subject; and it is related that sometimes there were no less than
twenty celebrated scholars in Rome.

So high was the value, and so great were the rewards, of grammarians,
that Lutatius Daphnides, jocularly called "Pan's herd" [855] by Lenaeus
Melissus, was purchased by Quintus Catullus for two hundred thousand
sesterces, and shortly afterwards made a freedman; and that Lucius
Apuleius, who was taken into the pay of Epicius Calvinus, a wealthy
Roman knight, at the annual salary of ten thousand crowns, had many
scholars.

Grammar also penetrated into the provinces, and some of the most eminent
amongst the learned taught it in foreign parts, particularly in Gallia
Togata. In the number of these, we may reckon Octavius (509) Teucer,
Siscennius Jacchus, and Oppius Cares [856], who persisted in teaching
to a most advanced period of his life, at a time when he was not
only unable to walk, but his sight failed.

IV. The appellation of grammarian was borrowed from the Greeks; but at
first, the Latins called such persons literati. Cornelius Nepos, also,
in his book, where he draws a distinction between a literate and a
philologist, says that in common phrase, those are properly called
literati who are skilled in speaking or writing with care or accuracy,
and those more especially deserve the name who translated the poets,
and were called grammarians by the Greeks.

It appears that they were named literators by Messala Corvinus, in one
of his letters, when he says, "that it does not refer to Furius
Bibaculus, nor even to Sigida, nor to Cato, the literator," [857]
meaning, doubtless, that Valerius Cato was both a poet and an eminent
grammarian. Some there are who draw a distinction between a literati and
a literator, as the Greeks do between a grammarian and a grammatist,
applying the former term to men of real erudition, the latter to
those whose pretensions to learning are moderate; and this opinion
Orbilius supports by examples.

For he says that in old times, when a company of slaves was offered for
sale by any person, it was not customary, without good reason,
to describe either of them in the catalogue as a literati, but only as
a literator, meaning that he was not a proficient in letters, but had a
smattering of knowledge.

But make the
same words read, "Divided we stand, united we fall," and the spirit of
Washington is removed from them. The only way to take the Spirit of God
from the word of God is to add to, take from or transpose the Word so
it will not say what the Spirit _said in it_.

"Well," says one, "if we are born of the Spirit operating through the
Word, must we not understand all the Word in order that we may be born
again?" No, the apostle limits the part of the Word we must understand
in verse 25 of this same chapter: "This is the word which by _the
gospel_ is preached unto you." Let us now endeavor to learn how the
gospel produces this change. How is the mind born again! In order to
learn this we must understand what is the normal condition of the mind
of the unregenerate. In general we may say it is in a state of
_unbelief_. Now, the proclamation of the great facts of the death,
burial and resurrection of Christ according to the Scriptures will break
up that condition of unbelief and produce a conviction of the truth of
the gospel. When the mind is changed from a state of unbelief to one of
hearty belief the birth of the mind is complete. But the mind is only a
part of man. The heart must be born again. What is the normal state of
the unregenerate heart? It is one of either _indifference_ or _hatred_.
The latter is the former fully ripened. It is said that Voltaire carried
a seal ring upon which were engraved the words, "Crush the wretch," and
every time he sealed a letter he impressed his spirit of hatred upon
that letter. Now, the gospel sets forth the love of God in Christ and
the loveliness of Christ's sacrifice for us in such a manner as to
change the indifferent or malignant heart into one of supreme love to
Christ. When the heart has thus been changed from hatred to love it is
born again. But man has also a body, and upon this spirit can not act.
If the body is to be born again, some element must be used that can act
upon the body. Hence our Saviour says, "born of water and the Spirit,"
because water can act upon the body. Now, the only use of water in the
new birth is in the act of baptism. All scholars of note in the
religious world agree that Christ's use of water in the new birth has
reference to baptism. Paul also speaks of "having our hearts sprinkled
from an evil conscience and our bodies washed in pure water." Thus,
with mind and heart changed by the Spirit through the gospel, and the
body solemnly consecrated to God in baptism, the entire man is born
again. This is all accomplished by the Spirit of God working _in and
through the gospel_.

2. Another work of the Spirit is to "_bear witness with our spirits that
we are children of God, and if children, then heirs_" (Rom. 8:16). It
does not say, "bear witness _to_ our spirits," but "_with_ our spirits."
Many people gauge the witness of the Spirit by feelings within
themselves. If they feel good, it is evidence to them of the Spirit's
testimony, but they frequently feel bad also; whose testimony is that?
The testimony of the Spirit should be clear testimony, and not
fluctuating; it should be in words, and not in feelings. Feelings,
impressions and emotions come and go like the waves of the sea, but
words remain forever the same. "Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my
word shall not pass away," saith the Lord. The idea of the conscious
testimony of the Spirit is not sustained by either the word of God nor
a correct psychology. It is the testimony of metaphysicians, from Sir
William Hamilton down to the writer, that consciousness does not take
cognizance of causes, but effects. Feelings are effects and not causes.
Consciousness tells us when we feel good or bad, but it does not tell us
what makes us feel good or bad. When a man has been taught that a
certain feeling in the heart is produced by a certain agency, his faith
and reason may decide that that agency produced the feeling, but
consciousness has nothing whatever to do with _the cause_ of the
feeling. Likewise, a certain feeling in the heart may be attributed to
the Spirit because one has been taught that the Spirit will produce such
a feeling, but consciousness can not trace that feeling to the Spirit
himself. A man should feel right because he knows he is right, and not
know he is right because he feels right.

In deciding whether we be children of God, we have two witnesses: first,
the Spirit himself, and, second, our spirit. The Spirit testifies as to
who is a child of God; our spirits testify as to what we are. If our
spirits testify that we are the character which the Spirit says belongs
to a child of God, then we have the testimony of the Spirit himself
bearing witness with our spirits that we are children of God. The
testimony of the Spirit, in the nature of the case, must be general. He
testifies that whosoever believes in Christ, repents of his sins, and is
baptized into him, is a child of God. This is the whole of his
testimony. Your spirit, likewise, must bear witness to your position on
all of these points.

No one but your own spirit can testify that you believe in Christ; you
may profess to, and the whole world may believe that you do, but your
own spirit knows that you are a hypocrite in making the profession.
Mr. Harvey was the first to appreciate Mr.
Howison's talents, and to afford scope for their display, by employing
him to engrave the well-known picture of "The Curlers;" and it
is no detraction from the merits of that painting to say, that the admirable
skill displayed in transferring it to copper contributed in no small
degree to the reputation of the painter. On the completion of "The
Curlers," Mr. Howison was elected an associate of the Royal
Scottish Academy--the only instance, we believe, of such an honor being
conferred upon an engraver. Mr. Howison afterwards engraved the "Polish
Exiles," by Sir William Allan; the "Covenanters' Communion," and the
"Schule Skailing," by Harvey; and at the period of his death he was
engaged upon the "First Letter from the Emigrants," after Thomas Faed,
for the Association for the Promotion of the Fine Arts in Scotland.

* * * * *
HYPPOLITE ROYER-COLLARD, nephew of the eminent philosopher of that
name, died at Paris on the 15th of December, at the age of 48, after
having been for five years afflicted by a paralysis, which did not
however affect his mental powers.

He was Professor of Public Hygiene, at the School of Medicine, and drew
crowded audiences to his lectures. To a mind of rare scientific acuteness
and endowments, he added an active and fertile imagination, and great
youthfulness of spirit. He inherited the intellectual tendencies of his
uncle, and was an intimate friend of Guizot.

* * * * *
COL. WILLIAMS, formerly M.P. for Ashton, died at Wootton, near Liverpool,
on the 19th December, aged eighty-seven. At twelve years of age, he
joined General Burgoyne's army in America, and carried the flag of
truce upon the memorable occasion of the surrender at Saratoga.
It is supposed that he was the last survivor of that army. After
twenty-five years of active service in Nova Scotia, St. Domingo, and
Jamaica, in Holland and in Ireland, he quitted the army in 1800, at
which period the career of most of the military men of the present day
commenced.

* * * * *
MR. WILLIAM STURGEON, well known for scientific attainments, died
on the 15th December, at Manchester, where he had for some years
filled the office of lecturer on science to the Royal Victoria
Gallery of Practical Science.This is not a work done in
us nor upon us, but is something done for us before the throne of God.
We can not dogmatize as to _how_ the Spirit maketh intercession, but
Paul says he does it "_according to the will of God_." This is a fact
that appeals to _our faith_ and not to our Christian _experience_. It
"can not be uttered." We can rest upon it and draw comfort from it as a
child draws strength from its mother's breast. We can also draw comfort
from the fact that Christ "ever liveth to make intercession for us,"
though we have no knowledge as to _how_ he does it.

4. Another work of the Spirit is to "_change us from glory to glory_."
"But we all, with unveiled face, reflecting as a mirror the glory of the
Lord, are transformed into the same image from glory to glory, even as
from the Lord the Spirit" (2 Cor. 3:18). The figure used here by the
apostle is taken from the process of mirror-making among the ancients.
They hadn't the glass mirrors of our day, but a mirror of highly
polished metal. A piece of coarse metal would be placed upon a stone and
the workmen would begin to polish it; at first it made no reflection at
all, but when polished for awhile would give a distorted and perverted
reflection; but in the process of polishing, that reflection would grow
clearer and clearer, when finally a man could behold his face in it
perfectly reflected. And so with us. When taken into the great spiritual
laboratory of Christianity we are blocks in the rough, but in the
polishing process of the church and spiritual surroundings we begin to
reflect the image of our Master, and when we have completed the work, we
reflect him as perfectly as a human being can. Take, for illustration,
the brothers Peter and John. Suddenly his quick eye lit on something in
the gravel path and his heart gave a great leap. It was a little round
pink disc of confetti.

Aristide picked it up and began to dance and shake his fist at the
invisible police.

"Aha!" he cried, "now we shall see who is right and who is wrong!"

He began to search and soon found another bit of confetti. A little
further along he discovered a third and a fourth. By using his walking
stick he discovered that they formed a trail to a point in the wall.
He examined the wall. There, if his eyes did not deceive him,
were evidences of mortar dislodged by nefarious toes. And there,
_mirabile visu!

    _ at the very bottom of the wall lay a little woollen
    pompon or tassel, just the kind of pompon that gives
    a finish to a pierrot's shoes. Evidently the scoundrel
    had scraped it off against the bricks while clambering over.

The pig-headed masquer stood confessed.

A less imaginative man than Aristide would have immediately acquainted
the police with his discovery. But Aristide had been insulted. A dull,
mechanical bureaucrat who tried to discover crime with a tape-measure
had dared to talk contemptuously of his intelligence! On his wooden
head should be poured the vials of his contempt.

"_Tron de l'air!_" cried Aristide--a Provençal oath which he only
used on sublime occasions--"It is I who will discover the thief and
make the whole lot of you the laughing-stock of Perpignan."
So did my versatile friend, joyously confident in his powers, start on
his glorious career as a private detective.

"Madame Coquereau," said he, that evening, while she was dealing a
hand at piquet, "what would you say if I solved this mystery and
brought the scoundrel to justice?"

    "To say that you would have more sense
      than the police, would be a
     poor compliment," said the
      old lady.

Stéphanie raised cloistral eyes from her embroidery frame. She
sat in a distant corner of the formal room discreetly lit by a shaded
lamp.

"You have a clue, Monsieur?"

she asked with adorable timidity.

Aristide tapped his forehead with his forefinger. "All is there, Mademoiselle."

They exchanged a glance--the first they had exchanged--while Madame
Coquereau was frowning at her cards; and Aristide interpreted the
glance as the promise of supreme reward for great deeds accomplished.
The mayor returned early from the café, a dejected man. The loss
of his hundred and twenty pounds weighed heavily on his mind. He
kissed his mother sorrowfully on the cheek, his niece on the brow,
held out a drooping hand to Aristide, and, subsiding into a stiff
imitation Louis XVI chair, rested his elbows on its unconsoling
arms and hid his face in his hands.
"My poor uncle! You suffer so much?" breathed Stéphanie, in divine
compassion.
"Little Saint!" murmured Aristide devoutly, as he declared four
aces and three queens.
The Mayor moved his head sympathetically. He was suffering from the
sharpest pain in his pocket he had felt for many a day. Madame
Coquereau's attention wandered from the cards.X

THE PARTING WORD


_Blasphemy against the Spirit_. This is a subject that is intensely
interesting to many people. They imagine that in some way unknown to
themselves they _may_ have committed this act, and it causes them great
concern. I will say that such people need have no alarm. The man who has
actually committed this sin _never_ feels any alarm about it. He is the
last man to feel concern over it. By reading the twelfth chapter of
Matthew the reader can obtain a clear view of this sin. Jesus was being
hounded by the Pharisees, who had determined to procure his death at all
hazards. They were watching, exaggerating and criticizing everything he
did.

He went on a Sabbath day through the field of corn and his disciples
plucked and ate some of the corn. There was an immediate outcry of "The
Sabbath is violated." Again, Jesus healed the man with a withered hand
and the Pharisees went out and held a council to plan his destruction.
Again, there was brought to him a man possessed of a devil, rendering
him blind and dumb. Jesus healed him by casting out the devil, so that
he "both saw and heard." Casting out devils had always been regarded by
the Jews as a direct work of the Spirit of God. The people are amazed,
and proclaimed him the Son of David, or the Messiah. The Pharisees could
not deny the fact, but they said: "He does it by Beelzebub, the prince
of devils."

These three incidents show a disposition on their part to deliberately
reject all testimony contrary to their plan to compass his death. They
had rendered their verdict in advance and were not open to conviction,
no matter _what_ testimony might be offered. Jesus tells them that if he
casts out devils by Beelzebub, then Satan is divided against himself.
"But if I by the Spirit of God cast out devils, then is the kingdom of
God come upon me" (Matt. 12:28). "_Therefore_ I say unto you, Every sin
and blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men: but the blasphemy against the
Spirit shall not be forgiven. And whosoever shall speak a word against
the Son of man, it shall be forgiven him: but whosoever shall speak
against the Holy Spirit, it shall not be forgiven him, neither in this
world, nor in that which is to come" (Matt. 12:31, 32). That these men
had committed, or were in great danger of committing, this blasphemy is
evident from the caution uttered above.

When a man to-day reaches the comprehensive state of mind that he is
going to reject Jesus _over any and all evidence,_ he has gone into the
house, shut and locked the door and thrown away the key. God can not
reach him. Such a man will be let alone by the Spirit of God. That Paul
understood this condition to be unpardonable, we read in Heb. 6:4-6:
"But as touching those who were once enlightened, and tasted of the
heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Spirit, and tasted
the good word of God, and the powers of the age to come, and then fall
away, it is impossible to renew them again unto repentance; seeing they
_crucify to themselves the Son of God afresh_, and put him to an open
shame." Paul says it is impossible to renew such a one to repentance.
Why? "_Seeing they crucify to themselves the Son of God afresh_." That
is, they have reached the same state of mind the Pharisees had who
_crucified him the first time_. Men can commit that same act to-day, but
when they do it they lose all concern regarding the consequences. As
long as one has concern, he may rest assured that he has not blasphemed
the Holy Spirit.

_The Fruits of the Spirit_. I have not treated this passage hitherto,
because I do not understand the apostle to be referring to the Holy
Spirit, but to man's spirit. WILLIAM HOWISON, A.R.S.A., a well-known
line engraver, died in Edinburgh, on the 20th December. He was born
at Edinburgh, in 1798. He was educated in George Heriot's Hospital;
and on leaving that institution was apprenticed to an engraver, of the
name of Wilson. Even as a boy he was remarkable for industry,
perseverance, and punctuality.
He never received any instructions in drawing, beyond what he acquired
for himself during the period of his apprenticeship. He was, in
every way, truly a self-made man.But we all recognize that there
is a terrible conflict between man's flesh and _his spirit_. These are
contrary the one to the other and lust against each other. When man's
flesh triumphs over his spirit, certain works are inevitable which Paul
enumerates. When the Spirit (in man) dominates the flesh, then certain
"fruits of the Spirit" appear. They are the fruits of man's spiritual
nature triumphing over his fleshly nature. XIV. CURTIUS NICIA was the
intimate friend of Cneius Pompeius and Caius Memmius; but having carried
notes from Memmius to Pompey's wife [878], when she was debauched
by Memmius, Pompey was indignant, and forbad him his house.I think
that the spirit (of man) can be aided by the Holy Spirit in its battle
against the flesh, but the "fruits" mentioned are of man's spirit and
not the Holy Spirit.

_The Spirit of God at Work To-Day_. Says one, "Is not the Spirit
actively at work in the world to-day?" Of course he is. It is not a
question of _what_ he is doing but _how_ he is doing it. The religious
world is pretty generally agreed that the Spirit is pleading with the
world of the unsaved through the motives and inducements of the gospel,
the moral truth which appeals to the intellect and heart of the
unconverted to turn to God and be saved; that all the saving power of
God is found in Christ and the gospel which reveals him; that God will
not go beyond the cross of Christ to save any man. His studies lay mostly
in the line of New-Testament Theology; and he is known especially by his
treatise _Of Death, the Wages of Sin, and of Salvation_ (Vom Tode, des
Sünden Solde, u. von d.
Erlösung). The work, which is distinguished for its acute and vigorous
thought, was written in reply to one on the same subject by Professor
Krabbe, of Rostock. Its chief peculiarity is the doctrine that the death
of the body is inherent in its constitution, not the effect of
sin; and therefore that redemption has regard only to spiritual deathWe are led into a dependence upon our feelings, which are unreliable.

Bishop J.H. Vincent, than whom stands no higher in the Northern M.E.
Church, aptly states the whole matter thus: "There are people who put
stress on sentiment and emotion in religion. If they 'feel good,' they
have no doubt as to their present security and their acceptance with
God. These people covet moods and states of feeling. They revel in songs
and prayers and hallelujahs. The thrill of sentiment and the warm
currents of emotion are 'the all and in all' of religion. Such saints
forget that mere mental exhilaration and good feeling may coexist with
carnal hearts, selfish aims, and utter worldliness of temper." He
was born in Philadelphia, on the 19th day of June, 1795. While young,
he for a time taught school in Milton, Northumberland county, at
which place he studied law. He went to Ohio, and after an absence of about
one year returned to Pennsylvania.

In 1818 he was admitted to the bar at Williamsport, where he continued
to reside until his death. In 1830 he was elected by the Democratic
party to the Senate of Pennsylvania. In the year 1831 he was elected
to Congress, and two years after was reëlected by an unprecedented majority.
The Spirit of God never led any man to
contradict _the Word_ which he has so clearly revealed. The whole
Christian life is a life of faith. _It begins, continues and ends in
faith._ "God is no respecter of persons, but in every nation he that
_fears God and works righteousness_ is accepted of him." "The sword of
the Spirit" is "the word of God."