Produced by Mark C. Orton, Anne Storer and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


                     SWEETS
                      FOR
                 LEISURE HOURS.

  _Embellished with neat coloured Engravings._

                 [Illustration]

                    LONDON:

              PRINTED AND SOLD BY
       DEAN & MUNDAY, THREADNEEDLE-STREET.

               _Price Six-pence._


       *       *       *       *       *


         [Illustration: FRONTISPIECE.]


                     SWEETS

                      FOR

                 LEISURE HOURS.


                EMBELLISHED WITH
       SIXTEEN NEATLY COLOURED ENGRAVINGS.

                 Strange that a country that has produced the Scotch Novels and
Gertrude of Wyoming should want sentiment!

                    The
              postman's double-knock
      at the door the next morning is "more germain to the matter."

               How that knock often goes to the heart!

       We distinguish to a nicety the arrival of the Two-penny or the
General Post.

The summons of the latter is louder and heavier, as bringing news
from a greater distance, and as, the longer it has been delayed,
fraught with a deeper interest.

    
    But stay,--sure 'tis cruel, with wings made to soar,
    To be shut up in prison, and never fly more--
    And I, who so often have long'd for a flight,
    Shall I keep you prisoner?--mamma, is that right?
    No, come, pretty Robin, I must set you free--
    For your whistle, though sweet, would sound sadly to me.


MAMMA AND THE BABY.

[Illustration]


    What a little thing am I!
      Hardly higher than the table;
    I can eat, and play, and cry,
      But to work I am not able.

    Nothing in the world I know,
      But mamma will try and show me;
    Sweet mamma, I love her so,
      She's so very kind unto me.

    And she sets me on her knee
      Very often for some kisses:
    O! how good I'll try to be,
      To such a dear mamma as this is!


THE DUTIFUL SON.

[Illustration]


    Poor Susan was old and too feeble to spin,
    Her forehead was wrinkled, her hands they were thin;
    And she must have starv'd, as so many have done,
    If she had not been bless'd with a good little son.

    He went every morning, as gay as a lark,
    And work'd all day long in the fields till 'twas dark,
    Then came home again to his dear mother's cot,
    And joyfully gave her the wages he got.

    Oh then, was not little Jem happier far
    Than naughty, and idle, and wicked boys are?
    For, as long as he liv'd, 'twas his comfort and joy,
    To think he'd not been an undutiful boy.


THE CHIMNEY-SWEEPER.

[Illustration]


    Whilst you are asleep, the poor little sweep
      At the dawning of morning must go,
    With brushes and bags, and cloth'd all in rags,
      In the winter, thro' frost and thro' snow.

    We're oblig'd, I am sure, for what they endure,
      To save us from smoke and from fire;
    And often I weep to think that the sweep
      Must do such sad work for his hire.

    Then we'll keep in mind, that the sweep's very kind,
      For us such a service to do,
    And never feel fright when he comes in our sight,
      Because of his dark sooty hue.


TUMBLE UP.

[Illustration]


    Tumble down, tumble up, never mind it, my sweet,
      No, no, never beat the poor ground;
    'Twas your fault you could not stand straight on your feet,
      Fall you will, if you twirl yourself round.

    Afterwards, when he gets a servant in livery to do
      this for him, he may have other
    and more ostensible sources of satisfaction--greater
      splendour, wealth, or fame; but he will not be so wholly in his
art, nor will his art have such a hold on him as when he was too
poor to transfer its meanest drudgery to others--too humble to
despise aught that had to do with the object of his glory and his
pride, with that on which all his projects of ambition or pleasure
were founded.

    "Entire affection scorneth nicer hands." When the
      professor is above this mechanical part
    of his business, it may have become a
      _stalking-horse_ to other worldly schemes, but is no longer his
_hobby-horse_ and the delight of his inmost thoughts--
"His shame in crowds, his solitary pride!"

I used sometimes to hurry through this part of my occupation, while
the Letter-Bell (which was my dinner-bell) summoned me to the
fraternal board, where youth and hope
"Made good digestion wait on appetite And health on both"--
or oftener I put it off till after dinner, that I might loiter
longer and with more luxurious indolence over it, and connect it
with the thoughts of my next day's labours.

The dustman's-bell, with its heavy, monotonous noise, and the brisk,
lively tinkle of the muffin-bell, have something in them, but not
much.

    They will bear dilating upon with the utmost
      license of inventive prose.
    All things are not alike _conductors_ to the
      imagination.

    
      [Illustration]


    No glory I covet, nor riches I want,
      Ambition is nothing to me;
    The one thing I beg of kind heaven to grant,
      Is a mind independent and free.

    With passion unruffled, untainted with pride,
      By reason my life let me square;
    The wants of my nature are cheaply supplied;
      And the rest is but folly and care.

    The blessing which Providence kindly has lent
      I'll justly and gratefully prize;
    While sweet meditation and cheerful content
      Shall make me both healthful and wise.


MORNING HYMN.

[Illustration]


    My Father, I thank thee for sleep,
      For quiet and peaceable rest;
    I thank thee for stooping to keep
      An infant from being distrest.

    My voice shall be lisping thy praise,
      My heart would repay thee with love;
    O teach me to walk in thy ways,
      And fit me to see thee above.

    As long as thou seest it right
      That here upon earth I should stay,
    I pray thee to guard me by night,
      And help me to serve thee by day.


EVENING HYMN.

[Illustration]


    The sun that lately fill'd the skies
      With all his sparkling rays,
    Now hides his glories from our eyes,
      And night comes on apace.

    And now to him who made the Sun,
      The world by day to light,
    Who gave the gentler Moon to cheer
      The still and gloomy night.

    To him, O let my willing tongue
      Send up the grateful strain;
    And let my heart join with the song,
      Or all my praise is vain.


TO BLESS, IS TO BE BLEST.

[Illustration]


    When young, what honest triumph flush'd my breast,
    This truth once known,--To bless, is to be blest!
    I led the bending beggar on his way;
    (Bare were his feet, his tresses silver-grey;)
    Soothed the keen pangs his aged spirit felt,
    And on his tale with mute attention dwelt.
    As in his script I dropp'd my little store,
    I griev'd to think that little was no more;
    He breath'd his pray'r,--"Long may such goodness live!"
    'Twas all he gave, 'twas all he had to give.


THE LITTLE MOUSE.

[Illustration]


      In this neat little house
      Liv'd a poor little mouse,
    He had plenty to eat every day;
      Till, enticed by another,
      Without leave of his mother,
    He ventured one day out to play.

      But the cat he soon spied,
      As he walk'd the bank-side,
    And soon of his folly repented.
      She put out her paw,
      Seized him with her claw,
    And eat him before she relented.


LOVE TO GOD
PRODUCES LOVE TO MEN.

[Illustration]


    Let gratitude in acts of goodness flow;
    Our love to God, in love to man below.
    Be this our joy--to calm the troubled breast,
    Support the weak, and succour the distrest;
    Direct the wand'rer, dry the widow's tear;
    The orphan guard, the sinking spirits cheer.
    Tho' small our pow'r to act, tho' mean our skill,
    God sees the heart;--he judges by the will.


TRUE KINDNESS.

[Illustration]


    "Pray help me, young master," an old woman cried,
    Who many an effort successlessly tried,
        Across some rough pavement to go;
    "For I'm very lame, and besides, almost blind,
    And so, without danger, my way I can't find;
        You'll help a poor woman, I know."

    "With great pleasure I will," the little boy said,
    "Come, lean on my shoulder, and be not afraid,
        I'm able to help you, indeed;
    And I'm sure I am willing, for I have been taught,
    That if, my good dame, I would do as I ought,
        I must help all I can, who're in need."


       *       *       *       *       *


                 POPULAR TALES,

                  PUBLISHED BY

       DEAN & MUNDAY, THREADNEEDLE-STREET.

               _SIX-PENCE EACH._

Ali Baba, or the Forty Thieves; coloured frontispiece.

Aladdin, or the Wonderful Lamp, an Eastern Tale;
    with coloured frontispiece.

Beauty and the Beast, or the Magic Rose; an entertaining
    Fairy tale; with coloured frontispiece.

Children in the Wood; with four coloured plates.

Cinderella, and the Pretty Glass Slipper; with four
    coloured engravings.

Entertaining History of Goody Two Shoes; with coloured
    frontispiece, and ten engravings on wood.

Jack and the Bean Stalk; with coloured frontispiece.

Big black Dan was inclined to frisk a bit and jump about at the
unusual scene; but little Texas worked his way right into Scylla's
heart by marching steadily and straight up to her, despite Martha's
laughing pulls on the lariat looped about his neck.

With ears pricked forward, he made friendly overtures
    to the new-comer on the spot.

He poked his nose into her lap and rubbed it against her hands and
ate sugar from her fingers.

[Illustration: MARTHA RIDES DAN OVER THE HURDLE.]
    "Oh, I wish I could ride him!"

    Seven Voyages of Sinbad the Sailor; with coloured
    frontispiece.

Tom Thumb, and Puss in Boots; coloured frontispiece.

Valentine and Orson, or the Wild Man of the Woods;
    with coloured frontispiece.

Entertaining History of Whittington and his Cat; with
    coloured frontispiece.