Aluminium is a white metal with a characteristic tint 
which most nearly resembles that of tin; when impure, or 
after prolonged  exposure to air it has a slight violet 
shade.  Its atomic weight is 27 (26.77, H=I, according to J. 
Thomson).  It is trivalent.  The specific gravity of cast 
metal is 2.583, and of rolled 2.688 at 4 deg.  C. It melts at 626 deg.  
C. (freezing point 654.5 deg. , Heycock and Neville).  It is the 
third most malleable and sixth most ductile metal, yielding 
sheets 0.000025 in. in thickness, and wires 0.004 in. in 
diameter.  When quite pure it is somewhat harder than tin, and 
its hardness is considerably increased by rolling.  It is not 
magnetic.  It stands near the positive end of the list of 
elements arranged in electromotive series, being exceeded only 
by the alkalis and metals of the alkaline earths; it therefore 
combines eagerly, under suitable conditions, with oxygen and 
chlorine.  Its coefficient of linear expansion by heat is 
0.0000222 (Richards) or 0.0000231 (Roberts Austen) per 1 deg.  
C. Its mean specific heat between 0 deg.  and 100 deg.  is 0.227, 
and its latent heat of fusion 100 calories (Richards). Only 
silver, copper and gold surpass it as conductors of heat, its 
value being 31.33 (Ag= 100, Roberts-Austen).  Its electrical 
conductivity, determined on 99.6% metal, is 60.5% that of 
cooper for equal volumes, or double that of copper for equal 
weights, and when chemically pure it exhibits a somewhat 
higher relative efficiency.  The average strength of 98% 
metal is approximately shown by the following table:-- 


 
                   Elastic limit,      Ultimate strength,     Reduction
                   tons per sq. in.    tons per sq. in.       of Area %
 Cast   .   .   .         3                    7                  15
 Sheet  .   .   .         5 1/2                11                 35
 Bars   .   .   .         6 1/2                12                 40
 Wire   .   .   .      7-13                 13-29                 60
 

Weight for weight, therefore, aluminium is only exceeded in 
tensile strength by the best cast steel, and its own alloy, 
aluminium bronze.  An absolutely clean surface becomes 
tarnished in damp air, an almost invisible coating of oxide 
being produced, just as happens with zinc; but this film 
is very permanent and prevents further attack.  Exposure to 
air and rain also causes slight corrosion, but to nothing 
like the same extent as occurs with iron, copper or brass.  
Commercial electrolytic aluminium of the best quality contains 
as the average of a large number of tests, 0.48% of silicon 
and 0.46% of iron, the residue being essentially aluminium 
itself.  The metal in mass is not affected by hot or cold water, 
the foil is very slowly oxidized, while the amalgam decomposes 
rapidly.  Sulphuretted hydrogen having no action upon it, 
articles made of it are not blackened in foggy weather or in 
rooms where crude coal gas is burnt.  To inorganic acids, except 
hydrochloric, it is highly resistant, ranking well with tin 
in this respect; but alkalis dissolve it quickly.  Organic 
acids such as vinegar, common salt, the natural ingredients 
of food, and the various extraneous substances used as food 
preservatives, alone or mixed together, dissolve traces of 
it if boiled for any length of time in a chemically clean 
vessel; but when aluminium utensils are submitted to the 
ordinary routine of the kitchen, being used to heat or cook 
milk, coffee, vegetables, meat and even fruit, and are also 
cleaned frequently in the usual fashion, no appreciable 
quantity of metal passes into the food.  Moreover, did it do 
so, the action upon the human system would be infinitely 
less harmful than similar doses of copper or of lead. 

The highly electro-positive character of aluminium is most 
important.  At elevated temperatures the metal decomposes nearly 
all other metallic oxides, wherefore it is most serviceable 
as a metallurgical reagent.  In the casting of iron, steel and 
brass, the addition of a trifling proportion (0.005%) removes 
oxide and renders the molten metal more fluid, causing the 

finished products to be more homogeneous, free from blow-holes 
and solid all through.  On the other hand, its electro-positive 
nature necessitates some care in its utilization.  If it be 
exposed to damp, to sea-water or to corrosive influences of 
any kind in contact with another metal, or if it be mixed 
with another metal so as to form an alloy which is not a true 
chemical compound, the other metal being highly negative to 
it, powerful galvanic action will be set up and the structure 
will quickly deteriorate. This explains the failure of boats 
built of commercially pure aluminium which have been put 
together with iron or copper rivets, and the decay of other 
boats built of a light alloy, in which the alloying metal 
(copper) has been injudiciously chosen. It also explains 
why aluminium is so difficult to join with low-temperature 
solders, for these mostly contain a large proportion of 
lead.  This disadvantage, however, is often overestimated since 
in most cases other means of uniting two pieces are available. 

Alloys. 

The metal produces an enormous number of useful alloys, some of 
which, containing only 1 or 2% of other metals, combine the 
lightness of aluminium itself with far greater hardness and 
strength.  Some with 90 to 99% of other metals  exhibit 
the general properties of those metals conspicuously 
improved.  Among the heavy alloys, the aluminium bronzes 
(Cu, 90-97.5%; Al, 10-2.5%) occupy the most important 
position, showing mean tensile strengths increasing from 
20 to 41 tons per sq. in. as the percentage of aluminium 
rises, and all strongly resisting corrosion in air or 
sea-water.  The light copper alloys, in which the proportions 
just given are practically reversed, are of considerably less 
utility, for although they are fairly strong, they lack power 
to resist galvanic action.  This subject is far from being 
exhausted, and it is not improbable that the alloy-producing 
capacity of aluminium may eventually prove its most valuable 
characteristic.  In the meantime, ternary light alloys 
appear the most satisfactory, and tungsten and copper, or 
tungsten and nickel, seem to be the best substances to add. 

Uses. 

The uses of aluminium are too numerous to mention.  Probably 
the widest field is still in the purification of iron and 
steel.  To the general public it appeals most strongly as 
a material  for constructing cooking utensils.  It is not 
brittle like porcelain and cast iron, not poisonous like 
lead-glazed earthenware and untinned copper, needs no enamel 
to chip off, does not rust and wear out like cheap tin-plate, 
and weighs but a fraction of other substances.  It is largely 
replacing brass and copper in all departments of industry 
-- especially where dead weight has to be moved about, and 
lightness is synonymous with economy -- for instance, in 
bed-plates for torpedo-boat engines, internal fittings for 
ships instead of wood, complete boats for portage, motor-car 
parts and boiling-pans for confectionery and in chemical 
works.  The British Admiralty employ it to save weight in 
the Navy, and the war-offices of the European powers equip 
their soldiers with it wherever possible, As a substitute for 
Solenhofen stone it is used in a modified form of lithography, 
which can be performed on rotary printing machines at a high 
speed.  With the increasing price of copper, it is coming 
into vogue as an electrical conductor for uncovered mains; 
it is found that an aluminium wire 0.126 in. in diameter will 
carry as much current as a copper wire 0.100 in. in diameter, 
while the former weighs about 79 lb and the latter 162 lb per 
mile.  Assuming the materials to be of equal tensile strength 
per unit of area -- hard-drawn copper is stronger, but has a 
lower conductivity -- the adoption of aluminium thus leads 
to a reduction of 52% in the weight, a gain of 60% in the 
strength, and an increase of 26% in the diameter of the 
conductor.  Bare aluminium strip has recently been tried 
for winding-coils in electrical machines, the oxide of the 
metal acting as insulators between the layers.  When the 
price of aluminium is less than double the price of copper 
aluminium is cheaper than copper per unit of electric 
current conveyed; but when insulation is necessary, the 
smaller size of the copper wire renders it more economical.  
Aluminium conductors have been employed on heavy work in 
many places, and for telegraphy and telephony they are in 
frequent demand and give perfect satisfaction. Difficulties 
were at first encountered in making the necessary joints, 
but these have been overcome by practice and experience. 

Two points connected with this metal are of sufficient 
moment to demand a few words by way of conclusion.  Its 
extraordinary lightness forms its chief claim to general 
adoption, yet is apt to cause mistakes when its price is 
mentioned.  It is the weight of a mass of metal which governs 
its financial value; its industrial value, in the vast majority 
of cases, depends on the volume of that mass.  Provided it be 
rigid, the bed-plate of an engine is no better for weighing 
30 cwt. than for weighing 10 cwt.  A saucepan is required to 
have a certain diameter and a certain depth in order that it 
may hold a certain bulk of liquid: its weight is merely an 
encumbrance.  Copper being 3 1/3 times as heavy as aluminium, 
whenever the latter costs less than 3 1/2 times as much as 
copper it is actually cheaper.  It must be remembered, 
too, that electrolytic aluminium only became known during 
the last decade of the 19th century.  Samples dating from 
the old sodium days are still in existence, and when they 
exhibit unpleasant properties the defect is often ascribed 
to the metal instead of to the process by which it was 
won.  Much has yet to be learnt about the practical qualities 
of the electrolytic product, and although every day's 
experience serves to place the metal in a firmer industrial 
position, a final verdict can only be passed after the lapse of 
time.  The individual and collective influence of the several 
impurities which occur in the product of the Heroult cell 
is still to seek, and the importance of this inquiry will 
be seen when we consider that if cast iron, wrought iron and 
steel, the three totally distinct metals included in the 
generic name of ``iron'' -- which are only distinguished 
one from another chemically by minute differences in the 
proportion of certain non-metallic ingredients -- had only 
been in use for a comparatively few years, attempts might 
occasionally be made to forge cast iron, or to employ 
wrought iron in the manufacture of edge-tools. (E. J. R.) 


                  Compounds of Aluminium. 
Aluminium oxide or alumina, Al2O3, occurs in nature 
as the mineral corundum (q.v.), notable for its hardness 
and abrasive power (see EMERY), and in well-crystallized 
forms it constitutes, when coloured by various metallic 
oxides, the gem-stones, sapphire, oriental topaz, oriental 
amethyst and oriental emerald. Alumina is obtained as a 
white amorphous powder by heating aluminium hydroxide.  
This powder, provided that it has not been too strongly 
ignited, is soluble in strong acids; by ignition it becomes 
denser and nearly as hard as corundum; it fuses in the 
oxyhydrogen flame or electric arc, and on cooling it assumes 
a crystalline form closely resembling the mineral species. 
Crystallized alumina is also obtained by heating the fluoride 
with boron trioxide; by fusing aluminium phosphate with 
sodium sulphate; by heating alumina to a dull redness in 
hydrochloric acid gas under pressure; and by heating alumina 
with lead oxide to a bright red heat.  These reactions are 
of special interest, for they culminate in the production 
of artificial ruby and sapphire (see GEMS, ARTIFICIAL). 

Aluminium Hydrates. -- Several hydrated forms of aluminium 
oxide are known.  Of these hydrargillite or gibbsite, Al(OH)3, 
diaspore, AlO(OH), and bauxite, Al2O(OH)4, occur in the 
mineral kingdom.  Aluminium hydrate, Al(OH)3, is obtained 
as a gelatinous white precipitate, soluble in potassium or 
sodium hydrate, but insoluble in ammonium chloride, by adding 
ammonia to a cold solution of an aluminium salt; from boiling 
solutions the precipitate is opaque.  By drying at ordinary 
temperatures, the hydrate Al(OH)3.H2O is obtained; at 
300 deg.  this yields AlO(OH), which on ignition gives alumina, 
Al2O3.  Precipitated aluminium hydrate finds considerable 
application in dyeing. Soluble modifications were obtained 
by Waiter Crum (Journ. Chem.  Soc., 1854, vi. 216), and 
Thomas Graham (Phil.  Trans., 1861, p. 163); the first 
named decomposing aluminium acetate from lead acetate and 
aluminium sulphate) with boiling water, the latter dialysing 
a solution of the basic chloride (obtained by dissolving 
the hydroxide in a solution of the normal chloride). 

Both these soluble hydrates are readily coagulated by 
traces of a salt, acid or alkali; Crum's hydrate does 
not combine with dye-stuffs, neither is it soluble in 
excess of acid, while Graham's compound readily forms 
lakes, and readily dissolves when coagulated in acids. 

In addition to behaving as a basic oxide, aluminium oxide (or 
hydrate) behaves as an acid oxide towards the strong bases 
with the formation of aluminates.  Potassium aluminate, 
K2Al2O4, is obtained in solution by dissolving aluminium 
hydrate in caustic potash; it is also obtained, as crystals 
containing three molecules of water, by fusing alumina 
with potash, exhausting with water, and crystallizing the 
solution in vacuo. Sodium aluminate is obtained in the 
manufacture of alumina; it is used as a mordant in dyeing, 
and has other commercial applications.  Other aluminates 
(in particular, of iron and magnesium), are of frequent 
occurrence in the mineral kingdom, e.g. spinel, gahnite, &c. 

Salts of Aluminium. -- Aluminium forms one series of 
salts, derived from the trioxide, Al2O3.  These exhibit, in 
certain cases, marked crystallographical and other analogies 
with the corresponding salts of chromium and ferric iron. 

Aluminium fluoride, AlF3, obtained by dissolving the 
metal in hydrofluoric acid, and subliming the residue 
in a current of hydrogen, forms transparent, very obtuse 
rhombohedra, which are insoluble in water.  It forms a 
series of double fluorides, the most important of which 
is cryolite (q.v.); this mineral has been applied to the 
commercial preparation of the metal (see above).  Aluminium 
chloride, AlCl3, was first prepared by Oersted, who heated 
a mixture of carbon and alumina in a current of chlorine, a 
method subsequently improved by Wohler, Bunsen, Deville and 
others.  A purer product is obtained by heating aluminium 
turnings in a current of dry chlorine, when the chloride 
distils over.  So obtained, it is a white crystalline solid, 
which slowly sublimes just below its melting point (194 deg. ).  
Its vapour density at temperatures above 750 deg.  corresponds 
to the formula AlCl3; below this point the molecules are 
associated.  It is very hygroscopic, absorbing water with the 
evolution of hydrochloric acid.  It combines with ammonia to 
form AlCl3.3NH3; and forms double compounds with phosphorus 
pentachloride, phosphorus oxychloride, selenium and tellurium 
chlorides, as well as with many metallic chlorides; sodium 
aluminium chloride, AlCl3.NaCl, is used in the production 
of the metal.  As a synthetical agent in organic chemistry, 
aluminium chloride has rendered possible more reactions 
than any other substance; here we can only mention the 
classic syntheses of benzene homologues.  Aluminium bromide, 
AlBr3, is prepared in the same manner as the chloride.  It 
forms colourless crystals, melting at 90 deg. , and boiling at 
265 deg. -270 deg. .  Aluminium iodide, AlI3, results from the 
interaction of iodine and aluminium.  It forms colourless 
crystals, melting at 185 deg. , and boiling at 360 deg. . Aluminium 
sulphide, Al2S3, results from the direct union of the metal 
with sulphur, or when carbon disulphide vapour is passed over 
strongly heated alumina.  It forms a yellow fusible mass, 
which is decomposed by water into alumina and sulphuretted 
hydrogen.  Aluminium sulphate Al(SO4)3, occurs in the 
mineral kingdom as keramohalite, Al2(SO4)3.18H2O, found 
near volcanoes and in alum-shale; aluminite or websterite is 
a basic salt, Al3(SO4)(OH)4.7H2O.  Aluminium sulphate, 
known commercially as ``concentrated alum'' or ``sulphate of 
alumina,'' is manufactured from kaolin or china clay, which, 
after roasting (in order to oxidize any iron present), is 
heated with sulphuric acid, the clear solution run off, and 
evaporated. ``Alum cake'' is an impure product.  Aluminium 
sulphate crystallizes as Al2(SO4)3.18H2O in tablets 
belonging to the monoclinic system. It has a sweet astringent 
taste, very soluble in water, but scarcely soluble in 
alcohol.  On heating, the crystals lose water, swell up, and 
give the anhydrous sulphate, which, on further heating, gives 
alumina.  It forms double salts with the sulphates of the 
metals of the alkalis, known as the alums (see ALUM.) 

Aluminium nitride (AlN) is obtained as small yellow crystals 
when aluminium is strongly heated in nitrogen.  The nitrate, 
Al(NO3)3, is obtained as deliquescent crystals (with 8H2O) 
by evaporating a solution of the hydroxide in nitric acid. 
Aluminium phosphates may be prepared by Precipitating a 
soluble aluminium salt with sodium phosphate.  Wavellite 
Al8(PO4)3(OH)15.9H2O, is a naturally occurring 
basic phosphate, while the gem-stone turquoise (q.v.) 
is Al.(PO4).(OH)2.H2O, coloured by traces of copper.  
Aluminium silicates are widely diffused in the mineral 
kingdom, being present in the commonest rock-forming minerals 
(felspars, &c.), and in the gem-stones, topaz, beryl, 
garnet, &c. It also constitutes with sodium silicate the 
mineral lapis-lazuli and the pigment ultramarine (q.v..) 
Forming the basis of all clays, aluminium silicates play a 
prominent part in the manufacture of pottery and porcelain. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY. -- The metallurgy and uses of aluminium are 
treated in detail in P. Moissonnier, L'Aluminium (Paris, 
1903); in J. W. Richards, Aluminium (1896); and in A. Miner, 
Production of Aluminium, Eng. trans. by L. Waldo (1905); 
reference may also be made to treatises on general metallurgy, 
e.g. C. Schnabel, Handbook of Metalurgy, vol. ii. (1907).  
For the chemistry see Roscoe and Schlorlemmer, Treatise on 
Inorganic Chemistry, vol. ii. (1908); H. Moissan, Traite 
de chimie minerale; Abegg, Handbuch der anorgenischen 
Chemie; and O. Dammer, Handbuch der anorganischen Chemie.  
Aluminium alloys have been studied in detail by Guillet. 

