Now, amongst the black coats in the pavilion you see a white figure or
two. The Elevens have finished lunch, and are mixing with the crowd.
Scaife is talking with a famous Old Carthusian, one of the finest living
exponents of cricket, sometime an "International" at football, and a
D.S.O. The great man is very cordial, for he sees in Scaife an
All-England player. Scaife listens, smiling. Obviously, he is impatient
to begin again. As soon as possible he collects his men, and leads them
into the field. One can hear the policemen saying in loud, firm voices,
"Pass along, please; pass along!" As if by magic the crowds on the lawn
melt away. In a few minutes the Etonians come out of the pavilion. The
sun shines upon their pale-blue caps and sashes, and upon faces slightly
pale also, but not yet blue. For Eton has a strong batting team, and
Scaife and Desmond have proved that it is a batsman's wicket.

And now the connoisseurs, the really great players, settle themselves
down comfortably to watch Scaife field. That, to them, is the great
attraction, apart from the contest between the rival schools. Some of
these Olympians have been heard to say that Scaife's innings against
weak bowling was no very meritorious performance, although the two
"swipes," they admit, were parlous knocks. Still, Public School cricket
is kindergarten cricket, and if you've not been at Eton or Harrow, and
if you loathe a fashionable crowd, and if you think first-class fielding
is worth coming to Lord's to see, why, then, my dear fellow, look at
Scaife!

Scaife stands at cover-point. If you put up your binoculars, you will
see that he is almost on his toes. His heels are not touching the
ground. And he bends slightly, not quite as low as a sprinter, but so
low that he can start with amazing speed. For two overs not a ball worth
fielding rolls his way. Ah! that will be punished. A long hop comes down
the pitch. The Etonian squares his shoulders. His eye, to be sure, is on
the ball, but in his mind's eye is the boundary; in his ear the first
burst of applause. Bat meets ball with a smack which echoes from the
Tennis Court to the stands across the ground. Now watch Scaife! He
dashes at top speed for the only point where his hands may intercept
that hard-hit ball. And, by Heaven! he stops it, and flicks it up to the
wicket-keeper, who whips off the bails.

"How's that?"

"Not out!"

"Well fielded; well fielded, sir!"

"A very close squeak," says the Caterpillar. "They won't steal many runs
from the Demon."

"Sometimes," says Iris Warde, "I really think that he _is_ a demon."

The Caterpillar nods. "You're more than half right, Miss Warde."

Presently, the first wicket falls; then the second soon after. And the
score is under twenty. The Rev. Septimus is beaming; the Bishop seated
beside him looks as if he were about to pronounce a benediction; Charles
Desmond is scintillating with wit and good humour. Visions of a single
innings victory engross the minds of these three. They are in the front
row of the pavilion, and they mean to see every ball of the game.

But soon it becomes evident that a determined stand is being made. Runs
come slowly, but they come; the score creeps up--thirty, forty, fifty.
Fluff goes on to bowl. On his day Fluff is tricky, but this, apparently,
is not his day. The runs come more quickly. The Rev. Septimus removes
his hat, wipes his forehead, and replaces his hat. It is on the back of
his head, but he is unaware of that. The Bishop appears now as if he
were reading a new commination--to wit, "Cursed is he that smiteth his
neighbour; cursed is he that bowleth half volleys." The Minister is
frowning; things may look black in South Africa, but they're looking
blacker in St. John's Wood.

One hundred runs for two wickets.

The Eton cheers are becoming exasperating. A few seats away Warde is
twiddling his thumbs and biting his lips. Old Lord Fawley has slipped
into the pavilion for a brandy and soda.

At last!

Scaife takes off Fluff and puts on a fast bowler, changing his own place
in the field to short slip. The ball, a first ball and very fast,
puzzles the batsman, accustomed to slows. He mistimes it; it grazes the
edge of his bat, and whizzes off far to the right of Scaife, but the
Demon has it. Somehow or other, ask of the spirits of the air--not of
the writer--somehow his wonderful right hand has met and held the ball.

"Well caught, sir; well caught!"

"That boy ought to be knighted on the spot," says Charles Desmond. Then
the three generously applaud the retiring batsman. He has played a
brilliant innings, and restored the confidence of all Etonians.

The Eton captain descends the steps; a veteran this, not a dashing
player, but sure, patient, and full of grit. He asks the umpire to give
him middle and leg; then he notes the positions of the field.

"Whew-w-w-w!"

"D----n it!" ejaculates Charles Desmond. Bishop and parson regard him
with gratitude. There are times when an honest oath becomes expedient.
The Eton captain has cut the first ball into Fluff's hands, and Fluff
has dropped it! Alastair Kinloch, from the top of the Trent coach,
screams out, "Jolly well muffed!" The great Minister silently thanks
Heaven that point is the Duke's son and not his.

And, of course, the Eton captain never gives another chance till he is
dismissed with half a century to his credit. Meantime five more wickets
have fallen. Seven down for 191! Eton leaves the field with a score of
226 against Harrow's 289. Harrow goes in without delay, and one wicket
is taken for 13 runs before the stumps are drawn. Charles Desmond looks
at the sky.

"Looks like rain to-night," he says anxiously.

And so ends Friday's play.

       *       *       *       *       *

The morrow dawned grey, obscured by mist rising from ground soaked by
two hours' heavy rain. You may be sure that all our friends were early
at Lord's, and that the pitch was examined by thousands of anxious eyes.
The Eton fast bowler was seen to smile. Upon a similar wicket had he not
done the famous hat-trick only three weeks before? The rain, however,
was over, and soon the sun would drive away the filmy mists. No man
alive could foretell what condition the pitch would be in after a few
hours of blazing sunshine. The Rev. Septimus told Charles Desmond that
he considered the situation to be critical, and, although he had read
the morning paper, he was not alluding even indirectly to South African
affairs. Charles Desmond said that, other things being equal, the Hill
would triumph; but he admitted that other things were very far from
equal. It looked as if Harrow would have to bat upon a treacherous
wicket, and Eton on a sound one.

At half-past ten punctually the men were in the field. Scaife issued
last instructions. "Block the bowling; don't try to score till you see
what tricks the ground will play. A minute saved now may mean a quarter
of an hour to us later." Cæsar nodded cheerfully. The fact that the luck
had changed stimulated every fibre of his being. And he said that he
felt in his bones that this was going to be a famous match, like that of
'85--something never to be forgotten.

Charles Desmond spoke few words while his son was batting. It was a
tradition among the Desmonds that they rose superior to emergency. The
Minister wondered whether his Harry would rise or fall. The fast bowler
delivered the first ball. It bumped horribly. The Rev. Septimus
shuddered and closed his eyes. Cæsar got well over it. The third ball
was cut for three. The fourth whizzed down--a wide. The fast bowler
dipped the ball into the sawdust.

"It isn't all jam for him," whispered the Rev. Septimus.

"Well bowled--well bowled!"

Alas! the middle stump was knocked clean out of the ground. Cæsar's
partner, a steady, careful player, had been bowled by his first ball.

Two wickets for 17.

The crowd were expecting the hero, but Fluff was walking towards the
wickets, wondering whether he should reach them alive. Never had his
heart beat as at this moment. Scaife had come up to him as soon as he
had examined the pitch.

"Fluff, I am putting you in early because you are a fellow I can trust.
My first and last word is, hit at nothing that isn't wide of the wicket.
The ground will probably improve fast."

Fluff nodded. A hive of bees seemed to have lodged in his head, and an
active automatic hammer in his heart; but he didn't dare tell the Demon
that funk, abject funk, possessed him, body and soul.

The second bowler began his first over. He bowled slows. Desmond played
the six balls back along the ground. A maiden over.

And then that thick-set, muscular beast, for so Fluff regarded him,
stared fixedly at Fluff's middle stump. Fluff glanced round. The
wicket-keeper had a grim smile on his lips, for his billet was no easy
one. Cosmo Kinloch at short slip looked as if it were a foregone
conclusion that Fluff would put the ball into his hands. Then Fluff
faced the bowler. Now for it!

The first ball was half a foot off the wicket, but Fluff let it go by.
The second came true enough. Fluff blocked it. The third flew past
Fluff's leg, but he just snicked it. Desmond started to run, and then
stopped, holding up his hand. Cheers rippled round the ring for the
first hit to the boundary. That was a bit of sheer luck, Fluff
reflected.

After this both boys played steadily for some ten minutes. Then, very
slowly, Cæsar began to score. He had made about fifteen when he drove a
ball hard to the on, Fluff backing up. Desmond, watching the travelling
ball, called to him to run. It seemed to Desmond almost certain that the
ball would go to the boundary. Too late he realized that it had been
magnificently fielded. Desmond strained every nerve, but his bat had not
reached the crease when the bails flew to right and left.

Out! And run out!

Three wickets for 41!

A quarter of an hour later Fluff was bowled with a yorker. He had made
eleven runs, and kept up his wicket during a crisis. Harrow cheered him
loudly.

And then came the terrible moment of the morning. Scaife went in when
Fluff's wicket fell. The ground had improved, but it was still
treacherous. The fast bowler sent down a straight one. It shot under
Scaife's bat and spread-eagled his stumps.

The wicket-keeper knows what the Harrow captain said, but it does not
bear repeating. Every eye was on his scowling, furious face as he
returned to the pavilion; and the Rev. Septimus scowled also, because he
had always maintained that any Harrovian could accept defeat like a
gentleman. Upon the other side of the ground the Caterpillar was saying
to his father. "I always said he was hairy at the heel."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was admitted afterwards that the Duffer's performance was the one
really bright spot in Harrow's second innings. Being a bowler, he went
in last but one. It happened that Fluff's brother was in possession of
the ball. It will never be known why the Duffer chose to treat Cosmo
Kinloch's balk with utter scorn and contempt. The Duffer was tall,
strong, and a terrific slogger. Nobody expected him to make a run, but
he made twenty in one over--all boundary hits. When he left the wicket
he had added thirty-eight to the score, and wouldn't have changed places
with an emperor. The Rev. Septimus followed him into the room where the
players change.

"My dear boy," he said, "I've never been able to give you a gold watch,
but you must take mine; here it is, and--and God bless you!"

But the Duffer swore stoutly that he preferred his own Waterbury.

       *       *       *       *       *

Eton went in to make 211 runs in four hours, upon a wicket almost as
sound as it had been upon the Friday. Scaife put the Duffer on to bowl.
The Demon had belief in luck.

"It's your day, Duffer," he said. "Pitch 'em up."

The Duffer, to his sire's exuberant satisfaction, "pitched 'em up" so
successfully that he took four wickets for 33. Four out of five! The
other bowlers, however, being not so successful, Eton accumulated a
hundred runs. The captains had agreed to draw stumps at 7.30. To win,
therefore, the Plain must make another hundred in two hours; and three
of their crack batsmen were out.

After tea an amazing change took place in the temper of the spectators.
Conviction seized them that the finish was likely to be close and
thrilling; that the one thing worth undivided attention was taking place
in the middle of the ground. As the minutes passed, a curious silence
fell upon the crowd, broken only by the cheers of the rival schools. The
boys, old and young alike, were watching every ball, every stroke. The
Eton captain was still in, playing steadily, not brilliantly; the Harrow
bowling was getting slack.

In the pavilion, the Rev. Septimus, Warde, and Charles Desmond were
sitting together. Not far from them was Scaife's father, a big, burly
man with a square head and heavy, strongly-marked features. He had never
been a cricketer, but this game gripped him. He sat next to a
world-famous financier of the great house of Neuchatel, whose sons had
been sent to the Hill. Run after run, run after run was added to the
score. Scaife's father turned to Neuchatel.

"I'd write a cheque for ten thousand pounds," he said, "if we could
win."

Lionel Neuchatel nodded. "Yes," he muttered; "I have not felt so excited
since Sir Bevis won the Derby."

In the deep field Desmond was standing, miserable because he had nothing
to do. No balls came his way; for the Eton captain had made up his mind
to win this match with singles and twos. Very carefully he placed his
balls between the fielders; very carefully his partner followed his
chief's example. No stealing of runs, no scoring off straight balls, no
gallery play--till victory was assured.

Poor Lord Fawley retired at this point into an inner room, pulling
savagely at his white beard. Old Lyburn, who had been sitting beside
him, gurgling and gasping, staggered after him. The Rev. Septimus kept
wiping his forehead.

"I can't stand this much longer," said Warde, in a hoarse whisper.

"Well hit, sir! Well hit!"

The Eton cheering became frantic. After nearly an hour's pawky,
uninteresting play, the Eton captain suddenly changed his tactics. His
"eye" was in; now or never let him score. A half-volley came down from
the pavilion end--a half-volley and off the wicket. The Etonian put all
the strength and power he had suppressed so manfully into a tremendous
swipe, and hit the ball clean over the ropes.

"Do you want to double that bet?" said Strathpeffer to the Caterpillar.
They were standing on the top of the Trent coach.

"No, thanks."

"Give you two to one, Egerton?"

"Done--in fivers."

The unhappy bowler sent down another half-volley. Once more the Etonian
smote, and smote hard; but this ball was not quite the same as the
first, although it appeared identical. The ball soared up and up. Would
it fall over the ropes? Thousands of eyes watched its flight. Desmond
started to run. Golconda to a sixpence on the fall! It is falling,
falling, falling.

"He'll never get there in time," says Charles Desmond.

"Yes he will," Warde answers savagely.

"He has!" screamed the Rev. Septimus. "He--_has_!"

Pandemonium broke loose. Grey-headed men threw their hats into the air;
M.P.'s danced; lovely women shrieked; every Harrovian on the ground
howled. For Cæsar held the ball fast in his lean, brown hands.

The Eton captain walks slowly towards the pavilion. He had to pass Cæsar
on his way, and passing him he pauses.

"That was a glorious catch," he says, with the smile of a gallant
gentleman.

And as Harrow, as cordially as Eton, cheers the retiring chieftain, the
Caterpillar whispers to Mrs. Verney--

"Did you see that? Did you see him stop to congratulate Cæsar?"

"Yes," says Mrs. Verney.

"I hope Scaife saw it too," the Caterpillar replies coolly. "That Eton
captain is cut out of whole cloth; no shoddy there, by Jove!"

And Desmond. How does Desmond feel? It is futile to ask him, because he
could not tell you, if he tried. But we can answer the question. If the
country that he wishes to serve crowns him with all the honours bestowed
upon a favoured son, never, _never_ will Cæsar Desmond know again a
moment of such exquisite, unadulterated joy as this.

       *       *       *       *       *

Six wickets down and 39 runs to get in less than half an hour!

Every ball now, every stroke, is a matter for cheers, derisive or
otherwise. The Rev. Septimus need not prate of golden days gone by. Boys
at heart never change. And the atmosphere is so charged with electricity
that a spark sets the firmament ablaze.

_Seven wickets for 192._

_Eight wickets for 197._

Signs of demoralization show themselves on both sides. The bowling has
become deplorably feeble, the batting even more so. Four more singles
are recorded. Only ten runs remain to be made, with two wickets to fall.

And twelve minutes to play!

Scaife puts on the Duffer again. The lips of the Rev. Sep are seen to
move inaudibly. Is he praying, or cursing, because three singles are
scored off his son's first three balls?

"Well bowled--well bowled!"

A ball of fair length, easy enough to play under all ordinary
circumstances, but a "teaser" when tremendous issues are at stake, has
defeated one of the Etonians. The last man runs towards the pitch
through a perfect hurricane of howls. Warde rises.

"I can't stand it," he says, and his voice shakes oddly. "You fellows
will find me behind the Pavvy after the match."

"I'd go with you," says the Rev. Septimus, in a choked tone, "but if I
tried to walk I should tumble down."

Charles Desmond says nothing. But, pray note the expression so
faithfully recorded in _Punch_--the compressed lips, the stern, frowning
brows, the protruded jaw. The famous debater sees all fights to a
finish, and fights himself till he drops.

_Seven runs to make, one wicket to fall, and five minutes to play!!!_

Evidently the last man in has received strenuous instructions from his
chief. The bowling has degenerated into that of anæmic girls--and two
whacks to the boundary mean--Victory. The new-comer is the square,
thick-set fast bowler, the worst bat in the Eleven, but a fellow of
determination, a slogger and a run-getter against village teams.

He obeys instructions to the letter. The Duffer's fifth ball goes to the
boundary.

Three runs to make and two and a half minutes to play!

The Duffer sends down the last ball. The Rev. Septimus covers his eyes.
O wretched Duffer! O thou whose knees are as wax, and whose arms are as
chop-sticks in the hands of a Griffin! O egregious Duff! O degenerate
son of a noble sire, dost thou dare at such a moment as this to attack
thine enemy with a--long hop?

The square, thick-set bowler shows his teeth as the ball pitches short.
Then he smites and runs. Runs, because he has smitten so hard that no
hand, surely, can stop the whirling sphere. Runs--ay--and so does the
Demon at cover point. This is the Demon's amazing conjuring-trick--what
else can you call it? And he has practised it so often, that he reckons
failure to be almost impossible. To those watching he seems to spring
like a tiger at the ball. By Heaven! he has stopped it--he's snapped it
up! But if he despatches it to the wicket-keeper, it will arrive too
late. The other Etonian is already within a couple of yards of the
crease. Scaife does not hesitate. He aims at the bowler's wicket towards
which the burly one is running as fast as legs a thought too short can
carry him.

He aims and shies--instantaneously. He shatters the wicket.

"How's that?"

The appeal comes from every part of the ground.

And then, clearly and unmistakably, the umpire's fiat is spoken--

"Out!"

The Rev. Sep rises and rushes off, upsetting chairs, treading on toes,
bent only upon being the first to tell Warde that Harrow has won.

"_Io! Io! Io!_"


FOOTNOTES:

[36] The blue of the Harrow colours.

[37] Lamper, _i.e._ Lamp-post.


CHAPTER XIII

_"If I perish, I perish"_

    "Since we deserved the name of friends,
      And thine effect so lives in me,
      A part of mine may live in thee
    And move thee on to noble ends."


The cheering at Bill upon the following Tuesday must be recorded,
inasmuch as it has, indirectly, bearing upon our story. It will be
guessed that the enthusiasm, the uproar, the tumultuous excitement were
even greater than on a similar occasion some fifteen years before. But,
to his amazement, Desmond, not Scaife, was made the particular hero of
the hour. Scaife's display of temper festered in the hearts of boys who
can forgive anything sooner than low breeding. The Hill had seen the
Etonian stop to speak his cheery word of congratulation to Cæsar, and
not the Caterpillar alone, but urchins of thirteen had made comparisons.

Scaife, however, could not complain of his reception upon that memorable
Tuesday afternoon; the cheering must have been heard a mile away. But
Desmond was acclaimed differently. The cheers were no louder--that was
impossible--but afterwards, when the excitement had simmered down, Cæsar
became the object of a special demonstration by the Monitors and Sixth
Form. Nearly every boy of note in the Upper School insisted upon shaking
his hand or patting him on the back. Scaife came up with the others, but
he left the Yard almost immediately and retired to his room. He had won
the great match; Desmond had saved it; and the School apprehended the
subtle difference. More, Scaife knew that John had gone up to Desmond
with outstretched hands after the match at Lord's. He could hear John's
eager voice, see the flame of admiration in his eyes, as he said, "Oh,
Cæsar, I am glad it was you who made that catch!" And with those
generous words, with that warm clasp of the hand, Scaife had seen the
barrier which he had built between the friends dissolve like ice in the
dog-days.

       *       *       *       *       *

The attention of the Manor was now fixed upon the house matches. It
seemed probable that with four members of the School Eleven in the team,
the ancient house must prove invincible. But to John's surprise, as this
delightful probability ripened into conviction, Warde betrayed unwonted
anxiety and even irritability. Miss Iris confided to Desmond, who paid
her much court, that she couldn't imagine what was the matter with papa.
And mamma, it transpired (from the same source), really feared that the
strain at Lord's had been too much, that her indefatigable husband was
about to break down. Finally, John made up his mind to ask a question.
He was second in command; he had a right to ask the chief if anything
were seriously amiss. Accordingly, he waited upon Warde after prayers.

But when he put his question, and expressed, modestly enough, his
anxiety and desire to help if he could, Warde bit his lips. Then he
burst out violently--

"I am miserable, Verney."

John said nothing. His tutor rose and began to pace up and down the
study; then, halting, facing John, he spoke quickly, with restless
gestures indicating volcanic disturbance.

"I'm between the devil and the deep sea," he said, "as many a better man
has been before me. I thought I'd wiped out the grosser evils in the
Manor, but I haven't--I haven't. Do you know that a fellow in this
house, perhaps two of 'em, but one at any rate, is getting out at night
and going up to town? You needn't answer, Verney. If you do know it, you
are powerless to prevent it, or it wouldn't occur."

"Thank you, sir."

"I can only guess who it is. I am not certain. And to make certain, I
must play the spy, creep and crawl, do what I loathe to do--suspect the
innocent together with the guilty. It's almost breaking my heart."

"I can understand that, sir, after what you have done for us."

Warde smiled grimly. "I don't think you do quite understand," he said
slowly. "At this moment I am tempted, tempted as I never have been
tempted, to let things slide, to shut both eyes and ears, till this term
is over. Next term"--he laughed harshly--"I shan't stand in such an
awkward place. The deep sea will always be near me, but the devil--the
devil will be elsewhere."

John nodded. His serious face expressed neither approval nor disapproval
to the man keenly watching it. Afterwards Warde remembered this
impassivity.

"If I do not act"--Warde's voice trembled--"I am damned as a traitor in
my own eyes."

John had never doubted that his house-master would act. As for creeping
and crawling, can peaks be scaled without creeping and crawling?
Never----

"You are not to speak a word of warning," Warde continued vehemently.
"If you know what I don't know yet, still you cannot speak to me,
because the sinner in this case is a Sixth-Form boy. You cannot speak to
me; and you will not speak to him, on your honour?"

There was interrogation in the last sentence. John replied almost
inaudibly--

"I shall not speak--on my honour!"

"It is hard, hard indeed, that I should have to foul my own nest, but it
must be so. Good night."

John went back to his room, calm without, terribly agitated within. What
ruthless spirit had driven him to Warde's study? Yes; at last,
inexorably, discovery, disgrace, the ineffaceable brand of expulsion,
impended over the head of his enemy, to whom he was pledged to utter no
word of warning. Like Warde, he did not know absolutely, but he guessed
that Scaife had spent another riotous night in town since the match. He
had read it in the eyes glittering with excitement, in the derisive
smile of conscious power, in the magnetic audacity of Scaife's glance.
And then he remembered Lawrence's parting words--

"It will be a fight to a finish, and, mark me, Warde will win!"

Two wretched days and nights passed. More than once John spurred himself
to the point of going to Warde and saying, "Think what you like of me, I
am going to warn the boy I loathe that you are at his heels." Still,
always at the last moment he did not go. Some power seemed to restrain
him. But when he tried to analyse his feelings, he confessed himself
muddled. He had obtained, nay, invited, Warde's confidence; and he dared
not abuse it. It was a time of anguish. He was unable to concentrate his
mind upon work or play, deprived of sleep, haunted by the conviction
that if Desmond knew all, he would turn from him for ever. Then, at the
most difficult moment of his life, the way of escape was opened.

Since the match, John and Cæsar had resumed the former unrestrained and
continual intimacy and intercourse. John was in and out of Desmond's
room, Desmond was in and out of John's room, at all hours. They "found"
together, of course, but it is not, fortunately, at meals that boys or
men discuss the things nearest to their hearts. But at night, just
before lights were turned out, or just after, when an Olympian is
privileged to work a little longer by the light of the useful "tolly,"
Cæsar and Jonathan would talk freely of past, present, and future. It
was during these much-valued minutes, or on Sunday afternoons, that John
would read to his friend the essays or verses which always fired
Desmond's admiration and enthusiasm. To John's intellectual activities
Cæsar played, so to speak, gallery; even as John upon many an afternoon
had sat stewing in the covered racquet-court, applauding Desmond's
service into the corner, or his hot returns just above the line. At
home, in the holidays, the boys had always met upon the same plane. Of
the two, John was the better rider and shot. Both were members of the
Philathletic Club[38] of Harrow, and the fact that Desmond was
incomparably his superior as an athlete was counterbalanced by John's
fine intellectual attainments. If John, at times, wished that he could
cut behind the wicket in Cæsar's faultless style, Desmond, on the other
hand, spoke enviously of the Medal, or the Essay, or some other of
John's successes. John spoke often and well in the Debating Society,
getting up his subjects with intelligence and care. So it was
give-and-take between them, and this adjusted the balance of their
friendship, and without this no friendship can be pronounced perfect.

None the less, free and delightful as this resumption of the old
intimacy had been, John knew Cæsar too well not to perceive that between
them lay an unmentionable five weeks, during which something had
occurred. From signs only too well interpreted before, John guessed that
Cæsar was once more in debt to the Demon. And finally, Cæsar confessed
that he had been betting, that he had won, following Scaife's advice,
and then had lost. The loss was greater than the gain, and the
difference, some five and twenty pounds, had been sent to Scaife's
bookmaker by Scaife. As before, Scaife ridiculed the possibility of such
a debt causing his pal any uneasiness, but it chafed Desmond consumedly.

Upon the Saturday of the semi-final house match, in which the Manor had
won a great victory by an innings and twenty-three runs, John went to
Desmond's room after prayers. He noticed at once that his friend was
unusually excited. John, however, attributed this to Cæsar's big score.
Success always inflamed Cæsar, just as it seemed to tranquillize John.
John began to talk, but he noticed that Cæsar was abstracted, answered
in monosyllables, and twice looked at his watch.

"Have you an appointment, Cæsar?"

"No. What were you saying, Jonathan?"

"You look rather queer to-night."

"Do I?" He laughed nervously.

"You're not bothering over that debt?"

This time Cæsar laughed naturally.

"Rather not. Why, that debt----" He stopped.

"Is it paid?" said John.

"It will be. Don't worry!"

But John looked worried. He perceived that Cæsar's finely-formed hands
were trembling, whenever they were still.

"Harry," said he--he never called Desmond Harry except when they were at
home--"Harry, what's wrong?"

"Why, nothing--nothing, that is, which amounts to anything."

"Harry, you are the worst liar in England. Something is wrong. Can't you
tell me? You must. I'm hanged if I leave you till you do tell me."

He looked steadily at Desmond. In his clear grey eyes were tiny, dancing
flecks of golden brown, which Desmond had seen once or twice
before,--which came whenever John was profoundly moved. The dancing
flecks transformed themselves in Desmond's fancy into sprites, the airy
creatures of John's will, imposing John's wishes and commands.

"Scaife said I might tell you, if I liked."

"Scaife?" John drew in his breath. "Then Scaife wanted you to tell me; I
am sure of that." He felt his way by the dim light of smouldering
suspicion. If Scaife wanted John to know anything, it was because such
knowledge must prove pain, not pleasure. John did not say this. Then,
very abruptly, Desmond continued. "You swear that what I'm about to tell
you will be regarded as sacred?"

"Yes."

"It is a matter which concerns Scaife and me, not you. You won't
interfere?"

"No."

"I'm going to London."

"_What?_"

"Don't look at me like that, you silly old ass! It's not--not what you
think," he laughed nervously. "I have bet Scaife twenty-five pounds, the
amount of my debt in fact, that the bill-of-fare of to-night's supper at
the Carlton Hotel will be handed to him after Chapel to-morrow morning.
I bike up to town, and bike back. If I don't go this Saturday, I have
one more chance before the term is over. That's all."

"That's all," repeated John, stupefied.

"If you can show me an easier way to make a 'pony,' I'll be obliged to
you."

"Scaife egged you on to this piece of folly?"

"No, he didn't."

"You may as well make a clean breast of it."

Bit by bit John extracted the facts. Behind them, of course, stood
Scaife, loving evil for evil's sake, planting evil, gleaning evil,
deliberately setting about the devil's work. Desmond, it appeared, had
persuaded Scaife not to go to town till the Lord's match was over. Since
the match Scaife had spent two nights in London, whetting an inordinate
appetite for forbidden fruit; exciting in Desmond also, not an appetite
for the fruit itself, but for the mad excitement of a perilous
adventure. Then, when the thoughtless "I'd like a lark of that sort" had
been spoken, came the derisive answer, "You haven't the nerve for it."
And then again the subtle leading of an ardent and self-willed nature
into the morass, Scaife pretending to dissuade a friend, entreating him
to consider the risk, urging him to go to bed, as if he were a
headstrong child. And finally Desmond's challenge, "Bet you I have the
nerve," and its acceptance, protestingly, by the other, and permission
given that John should be told.

"And it's to-night?"

"I mean to have that bill-of-fare. Do you think I'd back out now?"

In his mind's eye, our poor John was gazing down a long lane with no
turning at the end of it. Could he make his friend believe that Scaife
had brought this thing to pass from no other motive than wishing to hurt
mortally an enemy by the hand of a friend? No, never would such an
ingenuous youth as Cæsar accept, or even listen to, such an abominable
explanation.

"Good night," said John.

"I see you're rather sick with me, Jonathan. Remember, you made me
speak. To-morrow morning we'll have a good laugh over it. We'll walk to
the Haunted House, and I'll tell my tale. I shall be on my way in less
than an hour."

John went back to his room. The necessity for silence and thought had
become imperative. What could he do? It was certain that Warde was
waiting and watching. He had inexhaustible patience. Desmond, not the
Demon, would be caught and expelled. John returned to Desmond's room.

"You've told me so much," he said; "tell me a little more. How are you
going to do it?"

"To do what?"

"Get out of the house? Get a bike--and all that?"

"Easy. Lovell went out that way, and others. You jump from the sill of
the first landing window into the horse-chestnut. One must be able to
jump, of course; but I can jump. Then you shin down the tree, nip
through the shrubbery, and over the locked wicket-gate."

"Yes," John said slowly, "over the gate."

"I borrowed a bike from one of the Cycle Corps, and have ridden it in
the garden, in a bush to the right of the gate."

John nodded.

"It's moonlight after ten; I shall enjoy the ride immensely."

"You will try to get back into the house at night?"

"Too dangerous. Lovell did it; but the Demon marches in boldly just
before Chapel. He may have slipped out on half a dozen errands as soon
as the door is opened in the morning. I shall sleep under a stack. It's
a lovely night. Now, old Jonathan, I hope you're satisfied that I'm not
either the fool or the sinner you took me to be."

"Look here, Harry. If I appeal to you in the name of our friendship; if
I ask you for my sake and for my mother's sake not to do this thing----"

"Jonathan, I must go. Don't make it harder than it is."

"Then it _is_ hard?"

"I won't whine about that. I courted this adventure, and, by Jove! I'm
going to see it through. The odds are a hundred to one against my being
nailed."

"All right; I'll say no more. Good night."

"Good night, old Jonathan."

John went back to his room, waited three minutes, and then, in despair,
made up his mind to seek Scaife. He felt certain that the Demon's
extraordinary luck was about to stand between him and expulsion. Desmond
would be caught red-handed, but not he. John ground his teeth with rage
at the thought. He found Scaife alone--at work on cricketing accounts.

"Hullo, Verney!"

"Cæsar tells me that he is going up to London to-night."

"Oh, he told you that, did he?"

"Yes; you wished him to tell me?"

"Perhaps." Scaife laughed louder.

"You want to prove to me," said John slowly, "that you are the
stronger?"

"Perhaps." Scaife laughed.

"Well, if I surrender, if I admit that you are the stronger, that you
have defeated me, won't that be enough?"

"Eh? I don't quite take you."

"You are the stronger." John's voice was very miserable. "I have tried
to dissuade him, as you knew I should try, and I have failed. Isn't that
enough? You have your triumph. But now be generous. Turn round and use
your strength the other way. Make him give up this folly. You don't want
to see your own pal--sacked?"

"Precious little chance of that!"

"There is the chance."

Scaife hesitated. Did some worthier impulse stir within him? Who can
tell? His keen eye softened, and then hardened again.

"No," he said quickly. "If I agree to what you propose, it is, after
all, you who triumph, not I. And I doubt if I could stop him now, even
if I tried." He laughed again, for the third time, savagely. "You are
hoist with your own petard, Verney. You wanted to see me sacked; and now
that there is a chance in a thousand that Cæsar will be sacked, you
squirm. I swore to get my knife into you, and, by God, I've done it."

John went out, very pale. He passed through into the private side, and
tapped at Warde's study door. Mrs. Warde's voice bade him enter. She
looked at John's face. Afterwards she testified that he looked
singularly cool and self-possessed.

"I wish to see Mr. Warde," he said.

"He's dining at the Head Master's."

"Will he be in soon?"

"I--er--don't know. Perhaps not. I wouldn't wait for him, Verney, if I
were you."

"Thank you," said John. "Good night."

He went back to his room. In Mrs. Warde's eyes he had read--what?
Excitement? Apprehension? Suddenly, conviction came to him that this
dinner at the Head Master's was a blind. Why, during that very
afternoon, Warde had mentioned casually to Scaife that he was dining
out. He had deliberately informed the Demon that the coast was clear.
And at this moment, probably, Warde lay concealed near the chestnut
tree, waiting, watching, about to pounce upon the--wrong man!

The temptation to cry "_Cave!_" tore at his vitals. Till this moment the
tyranny of honour had never oppressed John. Having resolved to tell
Warde that he meant to break his word, it may seem inexplicable that he
shouldn't go a step further and break his word without warning the
house-master. Upon such nice points of conscience hang issues of
world-wide importance. To John, at any rate, the difference between the
two paths out of a tangled wood was greater than it might appear to some
of us. Warde had trusted him implicitly: could he bring himself to
violate Warde's confidence without giving the man notice?

However, what he might have done under pressure must remain a matter of
surmise. At this moment a third path became visible. And down it John
rushed, without consideration as to where it might lead. The one thing
plain at this crisis was the certainty that he had discovered a plan of
action which would save two things he valued supremely--his friendship
for Cæsar and his word of honour.

Here we are to liberty to speculate what John would have done had he
considered dispassionately the consequences of an action to be
accomplished at once or not at all. But he had not time to consider
anything except the fact that action would put to rout some very
tormenting thoughts.

He crumpled his bed, disarranged his room, and put on a cap and a thin
overcoat, as all lights in the boys' side of the Manor were
extinguished. Then he stole out of his room, and crept to the window at
the end of the passage. A moment later, he had squeezed through it, and
was standing upon the sill outside, gazing fearfully at the void
beneath, and the distance between the sill and the branch in front of
him. Afterwards, he confessed that this moment was the most difficult.
He was an active boy, but he had never jumped such a chasm. If he
missed the bough----

To hesitate meant shameful retreat. John felt the sweat break upon him;
craven fear clutched his heart-strings, and set them a-jangling.

He jumped.

The ease with which he caught the branch was such a physical relief that
he almost forgot his errand. He slid quietly down the tree, pausing as
he reached the bottom of it. The moon was just rising above the horizon,
but under the trees the darkness was Stygian. John pushed quietly
through the shrubberies, treading as lightly as possible. Every moment
he expected to see the flash of a lantern, to hear Warde's voice, to
feel an arresting hand upon the shoulder. It was quite impossible to
guess with any reasonable accuracy what part of the garden Warde had
selected for a hiding-place. Very soon he reached the edge of the
shrubbery, and gazed keenly into the moonlit, park-like meadow below
him. Peer as he might, he could see no trace of Warde. A dozen trees
might conceal him. Perhaps with the omniscience of the house-master, he
had divined that the wicket-gate was the ultimate place of egress.
Perhaps the wicket had been used for a similar purpose when Warde
himself was a boy at the Manor. It was vital to John's plan that Warde
should see him without recognizing him, and give chase. The chase would
end in capture at some point as reasonably far from the Manor as
possible. Warde might ask for explanations, but none would be
forthcoming till the morrow. Meantime, the coast would be clear for
Desmond. John, in fine, was playing the part of a pilot-engine.

But where was Warde?

The question answered itself within a minute, and after a fashion
absolutely unforeseen. As John was crossing from the shrubbery to the
wicket he looked back. To his horror, he saw lights in the boys' side,
light in the window of Scaife's room. Instantly John divined what had
come to pass, and cursed himself for a fool. Warde, from some coign of
vantage, had seen a boy leave his house. Why should he try to arrest the
boy? why should he risk the humiliation of running after him, and,
perhaps, failing to capture him? No, no; men forty were not likely to
work in that boyish fashion. Warde had adopted an infinitely better
plan. Assured that a boy had left the house, he had nothing to do but
walk round the rooms and find out which one was absent. He had begun
with Scaife. Next to Scaife was the room belonging to the Head of the
House; then came John's room, and then Cæsar's. Long before Warde
reached Cæsar's room, Cæsar would have heard him. Cæsar, at any rate,
was saved. John crept back under cover of the shrubberies. He saw the
light flicker out of Scaife's window, and shine more steadily in the
next room. The window of this room was open, and John could hear the
voice of Warde and the Head of the House. John waited. And then the
light shone in Desmond's room. John crouched against the wall,
trembling. If Cæsar had not heard the voices, if he were fully dressed,
if---- Suddenly he caught Warde's reassuring words: "Ah, Desmond, sorry
to disturb you. Good night."

John waited. Very soon Scaife would come to Desmond's room. Ah! Just so.
The night was so still that he could hear quite plainly the boys'
muffled voices.

"What's up?"

"Warde is going his rounds. Perhaps he smells a rat."

And then whispers! John strained his ears. Only a word or two more
reached him. "Verney---- D----d interfering sneak! Let's see!" It was
Scaife who was speaking.

John heard his own door opened and shut. Scaife, then, had discovered
his absence, and naturally leaped to the conclusion that he had warned
Warde. Let him think so! The boys were still whispering together. "Not
to-night," Scaife said decisively. "No, no," Desmond replied.

John wondered what remained to be done. Warde, of course, would satisfy
himself that no boy in his house was missing except John, before he
pronounced him the absentee. Poor Warde! This would be a hard knock for
him. John's thoughts were jostling each other freely, when he recalled
Desmond's words: "I have one more chance before the term is over." He
had wished to clear the way for his friend, not to block it. Then he
remembered the terms of the bet, and laughed.

He ran back to the wicket, found the bicycle, lit the lamp, and hoisted
the machine over the gate. Then he laughed again. After all, this
escaping from bondage, this midnight adventure beneath the impending
sword of expulsion, thrilled him to the marrow.

       *       *       *       *       *

When John returned on Sunday to the Manor, shortly after the doors were
unlocked in the morning, he found Dumbleton awaiting him. Dumber's face
expressed such amazement and consternation that John nearly laughed in
spite of himself.

"It's all hup, sir," said the butler. Only in moments of intense
excitement did Dumber misplace or leave out the aspirate. "You're to
come with me at once to Mr. Warde's study."

John followed the butler into the familiar room. Warde was not down yet,
but evidently Dumber had instructions not to leave the prisoner. John
stared at the writing-desk. Then he turned to Dumbleton, and said
carelessly--

"This means the sack, eh, Dumber?"

"Yes, sir. 'Ow could you do it, sir? Such a well-be'aved gentleman,
too!"

"Thank you, Dumber." John took an envelope from the desk, and wrote
Scaife's name upon it.

"Dumber, please give Mr. Scaife this--with my compliments. It is, as you
see, a bill of fare."

"Very good, sir."

John placed the card into the envelope and handed both to Dumbleton.

"With my compliments!"

"Certainly, sir."

"And _after_ Chapel."

"Yes, sir."

A moment later Warde came in. Dumbleton went out immediately with a
sorrowful, backward glance at John. The good fellow looked terribly
bewildered. For John's face, John's deportment, had amazed him. John was
quite unaware of it, but he looked astonishingly well. Excitement had
flushed his cheek and lent a sparkle to his grey eyes. He had enjoyed
his ride to town and back; he had slept soundly under the lee of a
haystack; and he had washed his face and hands in the horse-trough at
the foot of Sudbury Hill. And the certainty that Desmond was safe, that
in the end he, John, had triumphed over Scaife, filled his soul with
joy. Warde, on the other hand, looked wretched; he had passed a
sleepless night; he was pale, haggard, gaunt.

"What have you to say, Verney?"

"Nothing, sir."

"Nothing." Warde clenched his hands, and burst into speech, letting all
that he had suffered and suppressed escape in tumultuous words and
gestures. "Nothing. You dare to stand there and say--nothing. That you
should have done this thing! Why, it's incredible! And I who trusted
you. And you listened to me with a face like brass, laughing in your
sleeve, no doubt, at the fool who betrayed himself. And you came here,
so my wife tells me, to see if I was out of the way, if the coast was
clear. And you were cool as a cucumber. Oh, you hypocrite, you damnable
hypocrite! I have to see you now, but never again will I look willingly
upon your face, never! Well, this wretched business must be ended. You
got out of my house last night. You heard I was dining with the Head
Master. I returned early, and I saw you jump from the passage window.
You don't deny that you went up to London, I suppose?"

"No, sir; I don't deny it."

At the moment John, quite unconsciously, looked as if he were glorying
in what he had done. Warde could have struck his clean, clear face,
unblushingly meeting his furious glance. In disgust, he turned his back
and walked to the window. John felt rather than saw that his tutor was
profoundly moved. When he turned, two tears were trickling down his
cheeks. The sight of them nearly undid John. When Warde spoke again, his
voice was choked by his emotion.

"Verney," he said, "I spoke just now in an unrestrained manner, because
you--you"--his voice trembled--"have shaken my faith in all I hold most
dear. I say to you--I say to you that I believed in you as I believe in
my wife. Even now I feel that somehow there is a mistake--that you are
not what you confess yourself to be--a brazen-faced humbug. You have
worked as I have worked for this House, and in one moment you undo that
work. Have you paused to think, what effect this will have upon the
others?"

"Not yet, sir."

John looked respectfully sympathetic. Poor Warde! This was rough indeed
upon him.

Suddenly the door was flung open, and Desmond burst into the room, with
a complete disregard of the customary proprieties, and rushed up to
Warde.

"Sir," he said vehemently, "Verney did this to save--_me_!"

Warde saw the slow smile break upon John's face. And, seeing it, he came
as near hysterical laughter as a man of his character and temperament
can come. He perceived that John, for some amazing reason, had played
the scape-goat; that, in fact, he was innocent--not a humbug, not a
hypocrite, not a brazen-faced sinner. And the relief was so stupendous
that the tutor flung himself back into a chair, gasping. Desmond spoke
quietly.

"I was going to town, sir. For the first time, I swear. And only to win
a bet, and for the excitement of jumping out of a window. John tried to
dissuade me. When he exhausted every argument, he went himself."

"The Lord be praised!" said Warde. He had divined everything; but he let
Desmond tell the story in detail. Scaife's name was left out of the
narrative.

Then Warde said slowly, "I shall not refer this business to the Head
Master; I shall deal with it myself. For your own sake, Desmond, for the
sake of your father, and, above all else, for the sake of this House, I
shall do no more than ask you to promise that, for the rest of your time
at Harrow, you will endeavour to atone for what has been."

       *       *       *       *       *

All boys worth their salt are creatures of reserves; let us respect
them. It is easy to surmise what passed between the friends--the
gratitude, the self-reproach, the humiliation on one side; the sympathy,
the encouragement and shy, restrained affection on the other. A
bitter-sweet moment for John this, revealing, without disguise, the
weakness of Desmond's character, but illuminating the triumph over
Scaife, the all-powerful. John had been inhuman if this knowledge had
not been as spikenard to him.

Chapel over, the boys came pouring back into the house. In a minute the
fags would be hurrying up with the tea and the jam-pots, asking for
orders; in a minute Scaife would rush in with questions hot upon his
lips. John chuckled to himself as he heard Scaife's step.

"Hullo, Cæsar! Why did you cut Chapel? And----"

John saw that the Carlton supper-card was in his hand. He chuckled
again.

"Dumber has just given me--_this_. Did you go, after all?" he asked
Cæsar. They had not met since Warde's visit of the night before.

"I didn't go," said Cæsar.

"Dumber gave it to me, with Verney's compliments."

"You've lost your bet," said John.

"But how?"

"Jonathan went to town instead of me," said Desmond. "We thought he was
with Warde--he wasn't. This morning, early, I found out that he hadn't
slept in his bed. I saw him come back, and I saw Dumber waiting for him.
When Dumber came out of Warde's room, he told me that Jonathan had been
up to town, and was going to be--sacked."

He blurted out the rest of the story, to which Scaife listened
attentively. When Desmond finished, there was a pause.

"You're devilish clever," said Scaife to John.

"I shall pay up the pony," said Desmond.

"No, you won't," said Scaife. "As for the money, I never cared a hang
about that. I'm glad--and you ought to know it--that you've won the bet.
All the same, Verney isn't entitled to all the glory that you give him."

"He is, he is--and more, too."

Scaife laughed. John felt rather uncomfortable. Always Scaife exhibited
his amazing resource at unexpected moments.

"Never mind," Scaife continued, "I won't burst the pretty bubble. And I
admit, remember, Verney's cleverness."

He was turning to go, but Desmond clutched his sleeve. When he spoke his
fair face was scarlet.

"You sneer at the wrong man and at the wrong time," he said angrily,
"and you talk as though I was a fool. Well, I am a fool, perhaps, and I
blow bubbles. Prick this one, if you can. I challenge you to do it."

Scaife shrugged his shoulders. "It's so obvious," he said coolly, "that
your kind friend ran no risks other than a sprained ankle or a cold."

"What do you mean?"

"He was certain that you would come forward. He forced your hand. There
was never the smallest chance of his being sacked, and he knew it."

"Yes," said John, calmly, "I knew it."

"Just so," said Scaife. He went out whistling.

Desmond had time to whisper to John before the fags called them to
breakfast in John's room--

"I say, Jonathan, I'm glad you knew that I wouldn't fail you. As the
Demon says, you are clever; you are a sight cleverer than he is."

John shook his head. "I'm slow," he said. "As a matter of fact, the
thought that you would come to the rescue never occurred to me till I
was biking back from town."

"Anyway, you saved me from being sacked, and as long as I live I----"

"Come on to breakfast," said John.


FOOTNOTES:

[38] The Philathletic Club deals primarily with all matters which
concern Harrow games; it is also a social club. Distinguished athletes,
monitors, and so forth, are eligible for membership. The Head of the
School is _ex-Officio_ President.


CHAPTER XIV

_Good Night_

    "Good night! Sleep, and so may ever
      Lights half seen across a murky lea,
    Child of hope, and courage, and endeavour,
      Gleam a voiceless benison on thee!
        Youth be bearer
          Soon of hardihood;
        Life be fairer,
          Loyaller to good;
    Till the far lamps vanish into light,
    Rest in the dreamtime. Good night! Good night!"


The last Saturday of the summer term saw the Manor cock-house at
cricket: almost a foregone conclusion, and therefore not particularly
interesting to outsiders. During the morning Scaife gave his farewell
"brekker"[39] at the Creameries; a banquet of the Olympians to which
John received an invitation. He accepted because Desmond made a point of
his so doing; but he was quite aware that beneath the veneer of the
Demon's genial smile lay implacable hatred and resentment. The breakfast
in itself struck John as ostentatious. Scaife's father sent quails, _à
la Lucullus_, and other delicacies. Throughout the meal the talk was of
the coming war. At that time most of the Conservative papers pooh-poohed
the possibility of an appeal to arms, but Scaife's father, admittedly a
great authority on South African affairs, had told his son a fight was
inevitable. More, he and his friends were already preparing to raise a
regiment of mounted infantry. At breakfast Scaife announced this piece
of news, and added that in the event of hostilities he would join this
regiment, and not try to pass into Sandhurst. And he added that any of
his friends who were present, and over eighteen years of age, were
cordially invited to send in their names, and that he personally would
do all that was possible to secure them billets. The words were hardly
out of his mouth, when Cæsar Desmond was on his feet, with an eager--

"Put me down, Demon; put me down first!"

And then Scaife glanced at John, as he answered--

"Right you are, Cæsar, and if things go well with us, I fancy that we
shall get our commissions in regular regiments soon enough. The governor
had had a hint to that effect. Let's drink success to 'Scaife's Horse.'"

The toast was drunk with enthusiasm.

During the holidays, John saw nothing of Desmond, although they wrote to
each other once a week. John was reading hard with an eye to a possible
scholarship at Oxford; Desmond was playing cricket with Scaife. Later,
Desmond went to the Scaife moor in Scotland. John noted that his
friend's letters were full of two things only: sport, and the
ever-increasing probability of war. At the end of August John Verney,
the explorer, returning to Verney Boscobel after an absence of nearly
four years, began to write his now famous book on the Far East. Then
John learned from his mother that his uncle had borne all the charges of
his education. When he thanked him, the uncle said warmly--

"You have more than repaid me, my dear boy; not another word, please,
about that. Warde tells me they expect great things of you at Oxford."

Uncle and nephew were alone, after dinner. John had noticed that the
hardships endured in Manchuria and Thibet had left scars upon the
traveller. His hair was white, he looked an old man; one whose
wanderings in wild places must perforce come soon to an end.

"Uncle," said John, "I want to chuck Oxford."

"Eh?"

"I should like to go into the Army."

"Bless my soul!"

The explorer eyed his nephew with wrinkled brow. John gave reasons; we
can guess what they were. The prospect of war had set all ardent souls
afire.

"I must think this over, my boy," the uncle replied presently. "I must
sleep on it. Have you told your mother?"

"No; I counted upon you to persuade her."

"Um. Now tell me about Lord's! Ah! I'm sorry I missed that match."

Next day, his uncle said nothing of what lay next to John's heart, but
the pair rode together over the estate. During that ride it became plain
to the young man that his uncle had no intention of settling down. Once
or twice, in the driest, most matter-of-fact tone, the elder spoke as if
his heir were likely to inherit soon. Finally, John blurted out a
protest--

"But, uncle, you are a strong man. Why do you talk as if--as if----" the
boy couldn't finish the phrase.

"Tut, tut," said the uncle. "I know what I know"; and he fell into
silence.

Not till the evening, after Mrs. Verney had gone to bed, did the man of
many wanderings speak freely.

"John," said he, quietly, "I have a story to tell you. Years ago, your
father and I fell in love with the same girl. She married the better
man." He paused to fill a pipe: John saw that his uncle's fingers
trembled slightly; but his voice was cool, measured, almost monotonous.
"I made my first expedition to Patagonia. When I came back you were just
born; and I asked that I might be your godfather. I went to Africa after
the christening. And six years later your father died. I think he had
the purest and most unselfish love of the poor and helpless that I have
ever known. He wore away his life in the service of the outcast and
forlorn. And before he died, he expressed a wish that you should work as
he did, for others, but not in precisely the same way. He knew, none
better, the limitations imposed upon a parson. He prayed that you might
labour in a field larger than one parish. And I promised him that I
would do what I could when the time came. It has come--to-night. In my
opinion, in Warde's opinion, in your dear mother's opinion, Parliament
is the place for you. You will be sufficiently well off. Take all Oxford
can give you, and then try for the House of Commons. Charles Desmond
will make you one of his Private Secretaries. I have spoken to him. You
have a great career before you."

"But if war breaks out, uncle----"

"War _will_ break out. Don't misunderstand me! If you are wanted out
there, and the thing is going to be very serious, if you are wanted, you
must go; but decidedly you are not wanted yet. And you are an only son;
all your mother has. John, you must think of her, and you will think of
her, I know."

The conviction in his quiet voice communicated itself to his nephew.
There was a pause of nearly a minute; and then John answered, in a voice
curiously like his uncle's--

"All right."

Verney senior held out his hand. "I knew you would say that," he
murmured.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the 18th of September, when John returned to the Hill, the country
had just learned that the proposals of the Imperial Government to accept
the note of August 19th (provided it were not encumbered by conditions
which would nullify the intention to give substantial representation to
the Uitlanders) had not been accepted. That this meant war, none, least
of all a schoolboy, doubted. Desmond could talk of nothing else. He told
John that his father had promised to let him leave Harrow before the end
of the term, if war were declared. The Demon, so John was informed, had
made already preparations. He was taking out his three polo ponies, and
had hopes of being appointed Galloper to a certain General. Scaife's
Horse was being organized, but in any case would not take the field
before several months had elapsed; the Demon intended to be on the spot
when the first shot was fired.

To all this gunpowder-talk John listened with envious ears and a curious
sinking of the heart. He had looked forward to having Desmond to
himself; and lo! his friend was seven thousand miles away--on the veldt,
not on the Hill.

"You are not keen," said Desmond.

On the day of the Goose Match, Saturday, September 30th, Scaife came
down to Harrow to take leave of his friends. Already, John noted an
extraordinary difference in his manner and appearance. He treated John
to a slightly patronizing smile, called him Jonathan, asked if he could
be of service to him, and posed most successfully as a sort of sucking
Alexander.

That he absorbed Desmond's eyes and mind was indisputable. Everything
outside South Africa, and in particular the Hill and all things thereon,
dwindled into insignificance. Scaife made Desmond a present of the very
best maps obtainable, and nailed them on the wall above the mantelpiece,
pulling down a fine engraving which John had given to Desmond about a
year before. Desmond uttered no protest. The engraving was bundled out
of sight behind a sofa.

And after Scaife's departure, Desmond talked of him continually, and
always with enthusiasm. Warde added a note or two to the chorus.

"This is an opportunity for Scaife," he told John. "He may distinguish
himself very greatly, and the discipline of the camp will transmute the
bad metal into gold. War is an alchemist."

Upon the 11th of October war was declared.

After that, Desmond became as one possessed. He went about saying that
he pitied his father profoundly because he was a civilian and a
non-combatant. Warde wrote to Charles Desmond: "If you mean to send
Harry out, send him at once. He's fretting himself to fiddle-strings,
doing no work, and causing others to do no work also."

Sir William Symons' victory and death followed, and then the mortifying
retreat of General Yule. Upon the 30th day of the month eight hundred
and fifty officers and men were isolated and captured. Who does not
remember the wave of passionate incredulity that swept across the
kingdom when the evil tidings flashed over-seas? But Buller and his
staff were on the _Dunottar Castle_, and all Harrovians believed
devoutly that within a month of landing the Commander-in-Chief would
drive the invaders back and conquer the Transvaal.

Day after day, Desmond importuned his father. The "fun" would be over,
he pointed out, before he got there--and so on. At last word came. A
billet had been obtained. Desmond received a long envelope from the War
Office. He showed it to all his friends, old and young. Duff
junior--Cæsar's fag--became so excited that he asked Warde for
permission to enlist as a drummer-boy. The School cheered Cæsar at four
Bill.

And then came the parting.

Cæsar was to join the Headquarters' Staff as soon as possible. He spent
the last hours with John, but his mind, naturally enough, was
concentrated upon his kit. He chattered endlessly of saddlery,
revolvers, sleeping bags, and Zeiss glasses. John packed his
portmanteau. And on the morrow the friends parted at the station without
a word beyond--

"Good-bye, old Jonathan. Wish you were coming."

"Good-bye, Cæsar. Good luck!"

And then the shrill whistle, the inexorable rolling of the wheels, the
bright, eager face leaning far out of the window, the waved
handkerchief, the last words: "So long!" and John's reply, "So long!"

John saw the face fade; the wheels of the vanishing train seemed to have
rolled over his heart; the scream of the engine was the scream of
anguish from himself. He left the station and ran to the Tower. There,
after the first indescribable moments, some kindly spirit touched him.
He became whole. But he had ceased to be a boy. Alone upon the tower he
prayed for his friend, prayed fervently that it might be well with him,
now and for ever--Amen.

When he returned to the Manor, however, peace seemed to forsake him. The
horrible gap, ever-widening, between himself and Desmond might, indeed,
be bridged by prayer, but not by the shouts of boys and the turmoil of a
Public School.

During the rest of the term he worked furiously. Desmond was now on the
high seas, whither John followed him at night and on Sundays. Warde,
guessing, perhaps, what was passing in John's heart, talked much of
Desmond, always hopefully. From Warde, John learned that Charles Desmond
had tried to dissuade his favourite son from becoming a soldier.

"He wanted him to go into Parliament," said Warde.

John nodded.

"It was a disappointment. Yes; a great disappointment. Harry would have
made a debater. Yes; yes; a nimble wit, an engaging manner, and the gift
of the gab. And the father would have had him under his own eye."

"But he wanted to go to South Africa from the beginning."

"You wanted to go," said Warde; "your uncle told me so. It was a greater
thing for you, John, to stand aside."

And then John put a question. "Do you think that Harry ought to have
stood aside too?"

Warde, however, unwilling to commit himself, spoke of Harry's ardour and
patriotism. But at the end he let fall a straw which indicated the true
current of his thoughts--

"Mr. Desmond is very lonely."

John swooped on this.

"Then you think, you _do_ think, that Harry should have stayed behind?"

"Perhaps. One hesitates to accuse the boy of anything more than
thoughtlessness."

"If he wished to serve his country," began John, warmly.

Warde smiled. "Yes, yes," he assented. "Let us believe that, John; but
there has been too much cheap excitement."

Dark days followed. Who will ever forget Stormberg and Magersfontein? A
pall seemed to hang over the kingdom. Ladysmith remained in the grip of
the invader; the Boers were not yet driven out of Natal. Meantime Cæsar
had reached Sir Redvers Buller. A letter to his father, describing the
few incidents of the voyage out, and his arrival in South Africa, was
sent on to John and received by him on the 1st of February. "John will
understand," said Cæsar, in a postscript, "that I have little time for
writing." But John did not understand. He wrote regularly to Desmond; no
answer came in return.

       *       *       *       *       *

At the end of the Christmas holidays John returned to Harrow. He was now
Head of his House, and very nearly Head of the School. The weeks went by
slowly. Soon, he and a few others would travel to Oxford for their
examination; there would be the strenuous excitement of competition, and
the final announcement of success or failure. To all this John told
himself that he was lukewarm. Nothing seemed to matter since he had lost
sight of Cæsar's face, since the train whirled his friend out of his
life. But he worked hard, so hard that the Head Master bade him beware
of a breakdown.

       *       *       *       *       *

The hour of triumph came. John had gratified his own and Warde's
ambition; he was a Scholar of Christ Church. And this well-earned
success seemed to draw something in his heart. The congratulations, the
warm hand-clasps, the generous joy of schoolfellows not as fortunate,
restored his moral circulation. A whole holiday was granted in honour of
his success at Oxford. He told himself that now he would take things
easy and enjoy himself. The clouds in South Africa were lifting,
everybody said the glorious end was in sight. And so far Desmond had
escaped wounds and sickness. He had received a commission in
Beauregard's Irregular Horse; in the five days' action about Spion Kop
he behaved with conspicuous gallantry. Scaife, having obtained his
billet of Galloper, was with a General under Lord Methuen.

On the last Monday but one in the term, John was entering the Manor just
before lock-up, when a Sixth Form boy from another house passed him,
running.

"Have you heard about poor Scaife?" he called out.

"No--what?"

"Warde will tell you; he knows." The boy ran on, not wishing to be late.

John ran, too, with his heart thumping against his side. He felt
certain, from the expression upon the boy's face, that Scaife was dead.
And John recalled with intense bitterness and humiliation moments in
past years when he had wished that Scaife would die. Charles Desmond had
told him only three weeks before that his Harry hoped to join the smart
cavalry regiment in which a commission had been promised to Scaife. At
that moment John was sensible of an inordinate desire for anything that
might come between this wish and its fulfilment. And now, Scaife might
be lying dead.

He found Warde in his study staring at a telegram. He looked up as John
entered, and in silence handed him the message.

    "_Demon dead. Died gloriously._"

The telegram came from an Harrovian, an old Manorite at the War Office.

John sat down, stunned by the news; Warde regarded him gravely. John met
his glance and could not interpret it. Presently, Warde said nervously--

"Why did the fellow write 'Demon' instead of 'Scaife'? I don't like
that." He looked sharply at John, who did not understand. Then he added,
"I've wired for confirmation. There may be a--mistake."

"What mistake?" said John. Warde's manner confused him, frightened him.
"What mistake, sir?"

Warde, twisting the paper, answered miserably--

"There has been an action, but not in Scaife's part of Africa.
Beauregard's Horse were engaged and suffered severely. And would any one
say 'Demon' in such a serious context?"

"Oh, my God!" said John, pale and trembling. At last he understood. Add
two letters to "Demon" and you have "Desmond." How easily such a mistake
could be made!--"Desmond," ill-written, handed to an old Manorite to
copy and despatch.

"It's Scaife--it's Scaife," John cried.

Warde said nothing, staring at the thin slip of paper as if he were
trying to wrest from it its secret.

"Everybody called him 'Demon,'" said John.

"Still, one ought to be prepared."

For many hideous minutes they sat there, silent, waiting for the second
telegram. Dumbleton brought it in, and lingered, anxiously expectant;
but Warde dismissed him with a gesture. As the door closed, Warde stood
up.

"If our fears are well founded," he said solemnly, "may God give you
strength, John Verney, to bear the blow."

Then he tore open the envelope and read the truth--

    "_Henry Desmond killed in action._"

"No," said John, fiercely. "It is Scaife, Scaife!"

Warde shook his head, holding John's hand tight between his sinewy
fingers. John's face appalled him. He had known, he had guessed, the
strength of John's feeling for Desmond, but, he had not known the
strength of John's hatred of Scaife. And Desmond had been taken--and
Scaife left. The irony of it tore the soul.

"Don't speak," commanded Warde.

John closed his lips with instinctive obedience. When he opened them
again his face had softened; the words fell upon the silence with a
heartrending inflection of misery.

"And now I shall never know--I shall never know."

He broke down piteously. Warde let the first passion of grief spend
itself; then he asked John to explain. The good fellow saw that if John
could give his trouble words it would be lightened enormously. He
divined what had been suppressed.

"What is it that you will never know, John?"

At that John spoke, laying bare his heart. He gave details of the
never-ending struggle between Scaife and himself for the soul of his
friend; gave them with a clearness of expression which proved beyond all
else how his thoughts had crystallized in his mind. Warde listened,
holding John's hand, gripping it with sympathy and affection. The
romance of this friendship stirred him profoundly; the romance of the
struggle for good and evil; a struggle of which the issues remained
still in doubt; a romance which Death had cruelly left unfinished--this
had poignant significance for the house-master.

"I shall never know now," John repeated, in conclusion.

"But you have faith in your friend."

"He never wrote to me," said John.

At last it was out, the thorn in his side which had tormented him.

"If he had written," John continued, "if only he had written once. When
we parted it was good-bye--just that, nothing more; but I thought he
would write, and that everything would be cleared up. And now, silence."

       *       *       *       *       *

The week wore itself away. A few details were forthcoming: enough to
prove that a glorious deed had been done at the cost of a gallant life.
England was thrilled because the hero happened to be the son of a
popular Minister. The name of Desmond rang through the Empire. John
bought every paper and devoured the meagre lines which left so much
between them. It seemed that a certain position had to be taken--a small
hill. For the hundredth time in this campaign too few men were detailed
for the task. The reek of that awful slaughter on Spion Kop was still
strong in men's nostrils. Beauregard and his soldiers halted at the foot
of the hill, halted in the teeth of a storm of bullets. Then the word
was given to attack. But the fire from invisible foes simply
exterminated the leading files. The moment came when those behind
wavered and recoiled. And then Desmond darted forward--alone, cheering
on his fellows. They were all afoot. The men rallied and followed. But
they could not overtake the gallant figure pressing on in front. He
ran--so the Special Correspondent reported--as if he were racing for a
goal. The men staggered after him, aflame with his ardour. They reached
the top, captured the guns, drove down the enemy, and returned to the
highest point to find their leader--shot through the heart, and dead,
and smiling at death. Of all the men who passed through that blizzard of
bullets he was the youngest by two years.

Warde told John that the Head Master would preach upon the last Sunday
evening of the term, with special reference to Harry Desmond. Could John
bear it? John nodded. Since the first breakdown in Warde's study, his
heart seemed to have turned to ice. His religious sense, hitherto strong
and vital, failed him entirely. He abandoned prayer.

       *       *       *       *       *

Evensong was over in Harrow Chapel. The Head Master, stately in surplice
and scarlet hood, entered the pulpit, and, in his clear, calm tones,
announced his text, taken from the 17th verse of the First Chapter of
the Book of Ruth--

       *       *       *       *       *

"The Lord do so to me, and more also, if ought but death part thee and
me."

The subject of the sermon was "Friendship:" the heart's blood of a
Public School: Friendship with its delights, its perils, its peculiar
graces and benedictions.

"To-night," concluded the preacher, amid the breathless silence of the
congregation, "this thought of Friendship has for us a special
solemnity. It is consecrated by the memory of one whom we have just
lost. You, who are leaving the school, have been the friends and
contemporaries of Henry Julius Desmond; his features are fresh in your
memories, and will remain fresh as long as you live.

    "Tall, eager, a face to remember,
      A flush that could change as the day;
    A spirit that knew not December,
      That brightened the sunshine of May."

"Those lines, as you know, were written of another Harrovian, who died
here on this Hill. Henry Desmond died on another hill, and died so
gloriously that the shadow of our loss, dark as it seemed to us at
first, is already melting in the radiance of his gain. To die young,
clean, ardent; to die swiftly, in perfect health; to die saving others
from death, or worse--disgrace--to die scaling heights; to die and to
carry with you into the fuller, ampler life beyond, untainted hopes and
aspirations, unembittered memories, all the freshness and gladness of
May--is not that cause for joy rather than sorrow? I say--yes. Henry
Desmond is one stage ahead of us upon a journey which we all must take,
and I entreat you to consider that, if we have faith in a future life,
we must believe also that we carry hence not only the record of our
acts, whether good or evil, but the memory of them; and that memory,
undimmed by falsehood or self-deception, will create for us Heaven or
Hell. I do not say--God forbid!--that you should desire death because
you are still young, and, comparatively speaking, unspotted from the
world; but I say I would sooner see any of you struck down in the flower
of his youth than living on to lose, long before death comes, all that
makes life worth the living. Better death, a thousand times, than
gradual decay of mind and spirit; better death than faithlessness,
indifference, and uncleanness. To you who are leaving Harrow, poised for
flight into the great world of which this school is the microcosm, I
commend the memory of Henry Desmond. It stands in our records for all we
venerate and strive for: loyalty, honour, purity, strenuousness,
faithfulness in friendship. When temptation assails you, think of that
gallant boy running swiftly uphill, leaving craven fear behind, and
drawing with him the others who, led by him to the heights, made victory
possible. You cannot all be leaders, but you can follow leaders; only
see to it that they lead you, as Henry Desmond led the men of
Beauregard's Horse, onward and upward."

The preacher ended, and then followed the familiar hymn, always sung
upon the last Sunday evening of the term:--

    "Let Thy father-hand be shielding
      All who here shall meet no more;
    May their seed-time past be yielding
      Year by year a richer store;
            Those returning,
      Make more faithful than before."

The last blessing was pronounced, and with glistening eyes the boys
streamed out of Chapel; some of them for the last time.

       *       *       *       *       *

Upon the next Tuesday, John travelled down into the New Forest. April
was abroad in Hampshire; the larches already were bright green against
the Scotch firs; the beech buds were bursting; only the oaks retained
their drab winter's-livery.

During the few days preceding Easter Sunday, John rode or walked to
every part of the forest which he had visited in company with his dead
friend. At Beaulieu, standing in the ruins of the Abbey, he could hear
Desmond's delightful laugh as he recited the misadventures of Hordle
John; at Stoneycross he sat upon the bank overlooking the moor, whence
they had seen the fox steal into the woods about Rufus's Stone; at the
Bell tavern at Brook they had lunched; at Hinton Admiral they had
played cricket.

To his mother's and his uncle's silent sympathy John responded but
churlishly. His friend had departed without a word, without a sign; that
ate into John's heart and consumed it. For the first time since he had
been confirmed, he refused to receive the Sacrament. He went to church
as a matter of form; but he dared not approach the altar in his present
rebellious mood.

Again and again he accused himself of having yielded to a craven fear of
offending Desmond by speech too plain. Always he had been so terribly
afraid of losing his friend; and now he had lost him indeed. This
poignancy of grief may be accounted for in part by the previous
long-continued strain of overwork. And it is ever the habit of those who
do much to think that they might have done more.

At the beginning of May, John came back to the Hill, for his last term.
Out of the future rose the "dreaming spires" of Oxford; beyond them,
vague and shadowy, the great Clock-tower of Westminster, keeping watch
and ward over the destinies of our Empire.

In a long letter from Charles Desmond, the Minister had spoken of the
secretaryship to be kept warm for him, of the pleasure and solace the
writer would take in seeing his son's best friend in the place where
that son might have stood.

His best friend? Was that true?

The question tormented John. Because Cæsar had been so much to him, he
desired, more passionately than he had desired anything in his life, the
assurance that he had been something--not everything, only something--to
Cæsar.

       *       *       *       *       *

One day, about the middle of the month, John had been playing cricket,
the game of all games which brought Cæsar most vividly to his mind.
Then, just before six Bill, he strolled up the Hill and into the Vaughan
Library, where so many relics dear to Harrovians are enshrined. Sitting
in the splendid window which faces distant Hampstead, John told himself
that he must put aside the miseries and perplexities of the past month.
Had he been loyal to his friend's memory? Would not a more ardent faith
have burned away doubt?

John gazed across the familiar fields to the huge city on the horizon.
Soon night would fall, darkness would encompass all things. And then,
out of the mirk, would shine the lamps of London.

Warde's voice put his thoughts to instant flight. Some intuition told
John that something had happened. Warde said quietly--

"A letter has come for you in Harry Desmond's handwriting."

John, unable to speak, stretched out his hand.

"Take it," said Warde, "to some quiet spot where you cannot be
disturbed."

John nodded.

"I have seen how it was with you," Warde continued, with deep emotion,
"and you have had my acute sympathy, the more acute, perhaps, because
long ago a friend went out of my life without a sign." Warde paused.
"Now, unless my whole experience is at fault, you hold in your hand what
you want--and what you deserve."

Warde left the library; John put the letter into his pocket. Where
should he go? One place beckoned him. Upon the tower, looking towards
the Hill, he would read the last letter of his friend.

Within half an hour he was passing through the iron gates. He had not
visited the garden since that forlorn winter's afternoon, when he came
here, alone, after bidding Desmond good-bye. He could recall the
desolation of the scene: bleak Winter dripping tears upon the tomb of
Summer. With what disgust he had perceived the decaying masses of
vegetation, the sodden turf, the soot upon the bare trunks of the trees.
He had rushed away, fancying that he heard Desmond's voice, "There is a
curse on the place."

Now, May had touched what had seemed dead and hideous, and, lo! a
miracle. The hawthorns shone white against the brilliant green of the
laurels; the horse-chestnuts had--to use a fanciful expression of
Cæsar's--"lit their lamps." Out of the waving grass glimmered and
sparkled a thousand wild flowers. John heard the glad _Frühlingslied_ of
bees and birds. Then, opening his lungs, he inhaled the life-renewing
odours of earth renascent; opening his heart he felt a spiritual essence
pervading every fibre of his being. Once more the chilled sap in his
veins flowed generously. It was well with him and well with his friend.
This conviction possessed him, remember, before he opened the letter.

He ascended the tower, and broke the seal.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I have been meaning to write to you, dear old chap, ever since we
parted; but, somehow, I couldn't bring myself to tackle it in earnest
till to-night. To-morrow, we have a thundering big job ahead of us; the
last job, perhaps, for me. Old Jonathan, you have been the best friend a
man ever had, the only one I love as much as my own brothers--_and even
more_. It was from knowing you that I came to see what good-for-nothing
fools some fellows are. You were always so unselfish and _straight!_ and
you made me feel that I was the contrary, and that you knew it, and that
I should lose your friendship if I didn't improve a bit. So, if we don't
meet again in this jolly old world, it may be a little comfort to you to
remember that what you have done for a very worthless pal was not thrown
away.

"Good night, Jonathan. I'm going to turn in; we shall be astir before
daybreak. Over the veldt the stars are shining. It's so light, that I
can just make out the hill upon which, I hope, our flag will be waving
within a few hours. The sight of this hill brings back our Hill. If I
shut my eyes, I can see it plainly, as we used to see it from the
tower, with the Spire rising out of the heart of the old school. I have
the absurd conviction strong in me that, to-morrow, I shall get up the
hill here faster and easier than the other fellows because you and I
have so often run up our Hill together--God bless it--and you! Good
night."


FOOTNOTES:

[39] Brekker, _i.e._ breakfast.




 PRINTED AND BOUND IN ENGLAND BY
 WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS LIMITED, LONDON AND BECCLES