Produced by David Widger


TRAGEDY OF VENICE PRESERVED,

BY THOMAS OTWAY

PRODUCED AT
BOOTH'S THEATRE
SEPTEMBER 7TH, 1874.

REVISED BY DIO BOUCICAULT


A TRAGEDY IN FIVE ACTS


WITH THE STAGE BUSINESS, CAST OF CHARACTER,
COSTUMES. RELATIVE POSITIONS. &c.

HENRY L. HINTON & CO.,
744 Broadway.

1874.


COSTUMES.

DUKE-Crimson velvet dress, with purple robe, richly embroidered
with gold.

PRIULI-Purple velvet dress, scarlet mantle, black trunks puffed with
buck satin, black silk stockings, shoes and roses, black sword, round
black hat, and black plumes.

BEDAMAR-Purple doublet and breeches, embroidered, russet boots,
round black hat, and plumes.

JAFFIER-Same as Priuli--except mantle.

PIERRE-White doublet and blue Venetian fly, embroidered, white
pantaloons, russet boots, black sword, round black hat, and scarlet
plumes.

RENAULT-Black velvet doublet and trunks, buff pantaloons, russet
boots, dark cloak, embroidered, round black hat, and plumes.

SENATORS-Black gowns trimmed with ermine, and black caps.

CONSPIRATORS-Rich Venetian dresses.

GUARDS-Grey doublets, breeches, and hats.

BELVIDERA-First dress: White satin, trimmed with silver, long
purple robe, richly embroidered with gold. Second dress: White
muslin.

EXITS AND ENTRANCES.
R. means Right; L. Left: R. D. Right Door; L. D. Left Door;
& B. Second Entrance; U. E. Upper Entrance; M. D. Middle Door.

RELATIVE POSITIONS.
R., means Right; L.,Left; C, Centre; R. C, Right of Centre
h. C, Left of Centre.


EDITORIAL INTRODUCTION.

The story of "Venice Preserved" is partly founded upon St.
Real's History of the Conspiracy of the Spaniards against the
Republic of Venice, in 1618. Voltaire compares the author of
this History to Sallust; and pronounces it superior to the
English tragedy--an assertion, which, like many others from the
same source, was the convenient sentence of an adroit but
reckless ignorance. The merits of St. Real are undoubtedly great;
but Otway's indebtedness to him is exceedingly slight; and it is
remarkable to see how ingeniously, from a few meagre historical
details, the great dramatist has constructed one of the noblest
imaginative works of which literature can boast. Near the border
between the parishes of Maxton and Ancrum is a bridge, called Lilliard
Edge, formerly Anerum moor, where a battle was fought between the
Scots and English soon after the death of king James V., who died
in the year 1542. When the Earl of Arran was regent of
Scotland, Sir Ralph Rivers and Sir Bryan Laiton came to
Jedburgh with an army of 5,000 English to seize Merse and
Teviotdale in the name of Henry VIII., then king of England,
who died not long after, in the year 1547. The regent and the
Earl of Angus came with a small body of men to oppose them. The
Earl of Angus was greatly exasperated against the English, because
some time before they had defaced the tombs of his ancestors
at Melrose, and had done much hurt to the abbey there.
The regent and the Earl of Angus, without waiting the arrival
of a greater force, which was expected, met the English at
Lilliard Edge, where the Scots obtained a great victory, considering
the inequality of their number. A young woman of the name of
Lilliard fought along with the Scots with great courage; she fell
in the battle, and a tombstone was erected upon her grave on the
field where it was fought.
Some remains of this tombstone are still to be seen. It is said
to have contained the following inscription:--

"Fair maiden Lilliard lies under this stane; Little was her
stature, but great was her fame.
On the English lads she laid many thumps, And when her
legs were off she fought on her stumps."
T.S.W.

* * * * * 

BOOKS AND BOOKWORMS.

(_For the Mirror_.)
Books were anciently made of plates of copper and lead, the bark
of trees, bricks, Stones, and wood.In its unexpurgated state, "Venice Preserved" leaves
an impression far less favorable to the genius, as well as the
moral sense of the author, than in its present abridged and
rectified shape. In the language of Campbell, "never were beauties
and faults more easily separated than those of this tragedy. The
latter, in its purification for the stage, came off like dirt from a
fine statue, taking away nothing from its symmetrical surface,
and leaving us only to wonder how the author himself should
have soiled it with such disfigurements. _Pierre_ is a miserable
conspirator, as Otway first painted him, impelled to treason by
his love of a courtesan and his jealousy of _Antonio_. But his
character, as it now comes forward, is a-mixture of patriotism and
excusable misanthropy. Even in the more modern prompt-books,
an improving curtailment has been introduced. Until the
middle of the last century, the ghosts of _Jaffier_ and _Pierre_ used
to come in upon the stage, haunting _Belvidera_ in her last agonies,
which, Heaven knows, require no aggravation from spectral
agency."

This tragedy is believed to have been originally acted about
the year 1682. "_Pierre and Jaffier_," says Jackson, in his
History of the Scottish Stage, "in the estimation of the theatrical
world, are equal in rank, and excel each other in representation
only, as the particular talents of the actor elevate or lessen, in
the idea of the spectator, the importance of whichever part he
assumes. I have seen Garrick and Barry alternately in both
parts, and the candid critic was doubtful where to bestow the
preference. Mr. Mossop, indeed, raised the character of _Pierre_
beyond all reach, and left any _Jaffier_ I ever saw with him at a
distance: out, had he attempted _Jqffier_, I am confident he would
with Barry in _Pierre_, have stood far behind."

Of this same Mossop in _Pierre_, Davies, the biographer of
Garrick, remarks:--

"His fine, full toned voice and strong expression of sentiment, gave
uncommon spirit to the warmth and passion of the character. In the
interview with the conspirators, in the third act, he threw a gallantry
into his action, as striking as it was unexpected. But he greatly
excelled in the vehement reproaches, which, in the fourth act, he poured,
with acrimony and force, on the treachery and cowardice of Jaffier.
The cadences of his voice were equally adapted to the loudest rage
and the most deep and solemn reflection, which he judiciously varied."
"Mr. Garrick," says Davies, "when fixed in the management of
Drury Lane, resigned _Pierre_, in which part his fire and spirit were not
equally supported by grandeur and dignity of person, for _Jaffier_, which
he acted with great and deserved approbation many years." The temporary
frenzy, with which _Jaffier_ is seized, in the fourth act, on fancying
that he saw his friend on the rack, has not since been equalled,
nor, perhaps, ever will.

--'He groans;
Hark, how he groans! his screams are in my ears
Already! See, they've fixed him on the wheel!
And now they tear him! Murder! Perjured Senate!
Murder!'

"The enthusiastic power of Garrick presented this dreadful image
to the audience with such astonishing force, that they trembled at the
imaginary picture. In all the softer scenes of domestic woe, conjugal
tenderness, and agonizing distress, Barry, it must be owned, was
Garrick's master.

"Mrs. Cibber was long the _Belvidera_ of Barry and Garrick. Every
situation seemed to be formed on purpose to call forth her great skill in
awakening the passions. Mrs. Siddons has, in this part as well as
many others, fixed the favor of the town in her behalf. This actress,
like a resistless torrent, has borne down all before her. In person, just
rising above the middle stature, she looks, walks, and moves, like a
woman of superior rank. Her countenance is expressive; her eye so
full of information, that the passion is told from her look before she
speaks. Her voice, though not so harmonious as Mrs. Cibber's, is
strong and pleasing: nor is a word lost for want of due articulation.
She excels all performers in paying due attention to the business of
the scene. Her eye never wanders from the person ahe speaks to, or
should look at when she is silent. Her modulation of grief, in her
plaintive pronunciation of the interjection, Oh! is sweetly moving, and
reaches to the heart. Her madness in Belvidera is terribly affecting.
The many accidents of spectators falling into fainting-fits during her
acting, bear testimony to the effects of her exertions. She certainly
does not spare herself. None can say that she is not in downright earnest."


Thomas Otway, the author of this and some nine other plays,
of various merit, none of which, however, now keep possession
of the stage, was the son of a clergyman, and born at Trotting
in Sussex, England, in the year 1651. His tragedy of the
"Orphan" was for many years as attractive in the representation as
"Venice Preserved;" but the plot is of a character to render it
distasteful to a modern audience, although it contains passages
of remarkable beauty and power. Otway is said to have tried
his fortune on the stage as an actor, and to have failed--not an
infrequent case with dramatic authors. He appears to have
earned but a precarious subsistence by his pen; although from
the little we can glean of his history, the inference is, he was
improvident, and easily led away by gay, dissipated companions.
One of his biographers gives a melancholy account of the
destitution of his latter days, and states, that he was reduced to the
necessity of borrowing a shilling, to satisfy the cravings of hunger,
from a gentleman, who, shocked at the distress of the author of "Venice
Preserved," put a guinea into his hands; that Otway was choked with a
piece of bread, which he had immediately purchased. He is said to have
died the 14th April, 1685. at a public-house on Tower Hill. This story
is contradicted by Dr. Warton, who says that the poet died of a
distemper brought on by a severe cold.

Out of Shakspeare's unapproachable domain, we know of no
tragedy in the English language to compare with this in the
earnestness of its passion, the depth of its pathos, and the aptitude
of its language. Although it has not been represented of late
years as frequently as formerly, it will be long before it is
superseded in its foremost rank in our acting drama.


VENICE PRESERVED


ACT 1.

     _Scene I.--St. Mark's._

     _Enter Priuli and Jaffier, L._

     _Priuli._ (r.) No more! I'll hear no more! Begone
     and leave me!

     _Jaf._ Not hear me! By my sufferings, but you shall!
     My lord--my lord! I'm not that abject wretch
     You think me. Patience! where's the distance throws
     Me back so far, but I may boldly speak
     In right, though proud oppression will not hear me?

     _Priuli._ Have you not wronged me?

     _Jaf._ Could my nature e'er
     Have brooked injustice, or the doing wrongs,
     I need not now thus low have bent myself
     To gain a hearing from a cruel father.--
     Wronged you?

     _Priuli._ Yes, wronged me! In the nicest point,
     The honour of my house, you've done me wrong.
     You may remember (for I now will speak,
     And urge its baseness) when you first came borne
     From travel, with such hopes as made you looked on
     By all men's eyes, a youth of expectation;
     Pleased with your growing virtue, I received you;
     Courted, and sought to raise you to your merits;
     My house, my table, nay, my fortune too,
     My very self was yours; you might have used me
     To your best service; like an open friend,
     I treated, trusted you, and thought you mine:
     When, in requital of my best endeavours,
     You treacherously practised to undo me;
     Seduced the weakness of my age's darling,
     My only child, and stole her from my bosom.
     Oh! Belvidera!

     _Jaf._ 'Tis to me you owe her:
     Childless you had been else, and in the grave
     Your name extinct; no more Priuli heard of.
     You may remember, scarce five years are past,
     Since in your brigantine you sailed to see,
     The Adriatic wedded by our duke;
     And I was with you: your unskilful pilot
     Dashed us upon a rock; when to your boat
     You made for safety; entered first yourself;--
     The affrighted Belvidera, following next,
     As she stood trembling on the vessel's side,
     Was, by a wave, washed off into the deep;
     When instantly I plunged into the sea,
     And buffeting the billows to her rescue,
     Redeemed her life with half the loss of mine.
     Like a rich conquest, in one hand I bore her,
     And with the other dashed the saucy waves,
     That thronged and pressed to rob me of my prize.
     I brought her, gave her to your despairing arms;
     Indeed, you thanked me; but a nobler gratitude
     Rose in her soul: for from that hour she loved me,
     Till for her life she paid me with herself.

     _Priuli._ You stole her from me; like a thief you stole her,
     At dead of night; that cursed hour you chose
     To rifle me of all my heart held dear.
     May all your joys in her prove false, like mine!
     A sterile fortune, and a barren bed,
     Attend you both: continual discord make
     Your days and nights bitter and grievous still:
     May the hard hand of a vexatious need
     Oppress and grind you; till at last you find
     The curse of disobedience all your portion.

     _Jaf._ Half of your curse you have bestowed in vain,
     Heav'n has already crowned our faithful loves
     With a young boy, sweet as his mother's beauty:
     May he live to prove more gentle than his grandsire,
     And happier than his father.

     _Priuli._ Rather live
     To bait thee for his bread, and din your ears
     With hungry cries; whilst his unhappy mother
     Sits down and weeps in bitterness of want.

     _Jaf._ You talk as if 'twould please you.

     _Priuli._ 'T would, by heaven!

     _Jaf._ Would I were in my grave?

     _Priuli._ And she, too, with thee:
     For, living here, you're but my cursed remembrances,
     I once was happy!

     _Jaf._ You use me thus, because you know my soul
     Is fond of Belvidera. You perceive
     My life feeds on her, therefore thus you treat me
     Were I that thief, the doer of such wrongs
     As you upbraid me with, what hinders me
     But I might send her back to you with contumely,
     And court my fortune where she would be kinder?

     _Priuli._ You dare not do't.

     _Jaf._ Indeed, my lord, I dare not.
     My heart, that awes me, is too much my master:
     Three years are past since first our vows were plighted,
     During which time, the world must bear me witness,
     I've treated Belvidera like your daughter,
     The daughter of a senator of Venice:
     Distinction, place, attendance, and observance,
     Due to her birth, she always has commanded:
     Out of my little fortune, I've done this;
     Because, (though hopeless e'er to win your nature)
     The world might see I loved her for herself;
     Not as the heiress of the great Priuli.

     _Priuli._ No more.

     _Jaf._ Yes, all, and then, adieu forever.
     _[Pausing with clasped hands._
     There's not a wretch that lives on common charity
     But's happier than I; for I have known
     The luscious sweets of plenty; every night
     Have slept with soft content about my head,
     And never waked, but to a joyful morning:
     Yet now must fall, like a full ear of corn,
     Whoso blossom 'scaped, yet's withered in the ripenin.

     _Priuli._ Home, and be humble; study to retrench;
     Discharge the lazy vermin of thy hall,
     Those pageants of thy folly:
     Reduce the glitt'ring trappings of thy wife
     To humble weeds, fit for thy little state: _[ Going._
     Then to some suburb cottage both retire;
     Drudge to feed loathsome life; get brats and starve--
     Home, home, I say! _[Exit, R._

     _Jaf._ (C.) Yes, if my heart would let me----
     This proud, this swelling heart: home I would go,
     But that my doors are hateful to my eyes,
     Filled and damned up with gaping creditors!
     I've now not fifty ducats in the world,
     Yet still I am in love, and pleased with ruin.
     Oh, Belvidera! Oh! she is my wife--
     And we will bear our wayward fate together,
     But ne'er know comfort more.

     _Enter Pierre, L. S. E._

     _Pierre._ (L. C.) My friend, good morrow;
     How fares the honest partner of my heart?
     What, melancholy! not a word to spare me!

     _Jaf._ (C.) I'm thinking, Pierre, how that damned
     starving quality,
     Called honesty, got footing in the world.

     _Pierre._ Why, powerful villainy first set it up,
     For its own ease and safety. Honest men
     Are the-soft easy cushions on which knave's
     Repose and fatten. Were all mankind villains,
     They'd starve each other; lawyers would want practice,
     Cut-throats, reward: each man would kill his brother
     Himself; none would be paid or hanged for murder.
     Honesty! 'twas a cheat, invented first
     To bind the hands of bold deserving rogues,
     That fools and cowards might sit safe in power,
     And lord it uncontrolled above their betters.

     _Jaf._ Then honesty is but a notion?

     _Pierre._ Nothing else;
     Like wit, much talked of, not to be defined:
     He that pretends to most, too, has least share in't
     Tis a ragged virtue. Honesty! no more on't.

     _Jaf._ Sure, thou art honest?

     _Pierre._ So, indeed, men think me;
     But they're mistaken, Jaffier; I'm a rogue,
     As well as they;
     A fine, gay, bold-faced villain as thou seest me!
     'Tis true. I pay my debts, when they're contracted;
     I steal from no man; would not cut a throat
     To gain admission to a great man's purse;
     Would not betray my friend,
     To get his place or fortune; I scorn to flatter
     A blown-up fool above me, or crush the wretch beneath me;
     Yet, Jaffier, for all this, I am a villain.

     _Jaf._ (R. C.) A villain!

     _Pierre._ Yes, a most notorious villain;
     To see the sufferings of my fellow-creatures,
     And own myself a man; to see our senators
     Cheat the deluded people with a show
     Of liberty, which yet they ne'er must taste of.
     They say, by them our hands are free from fetters;
     Yet whom they please, they lay in basest bonds;
     Bring whom they please to infamy and sorrow;
     Drive us, like wrecks, down the rough tide of power,
     Whilst no hold's left to save us from destruction.
     All that bear this are villains, and I one,
     Not to rouse up at the great call of nature,
     And check the growth of these domestic spoilers,
     That make us slaves, and tell us 'tis our charter!

     _[Walks, L._

     _Jaf._ I think no safety can be here for virtue,
     And grieve, my friend, as much as thou, to live
     In such a wretched state as this of Venice,
     Where all agree to spoil the public good,
     And villains fatten with the brave man's labours.

     _Pierre._ [_Returns to L. C._] We've neither safety, unity,
     nor peace,
     For the foundation's lost of common good;
     Justice is lame, as well as blind, amongst us;
     The laws (corrupted to their ends that make them,)
     Serve but for instruments of some new tyranny,
     That every day starts up, t'enslave us deeper.
     Now [_Lays his hand on Jaffier's arm_,] could this glorious
     cause but find out friends
     To do it light, oh, Jaffier! then might'st thou
     Not wear those seals of woe upon thy face;
     The proud Priuli should be taught humanity,
     And learn to value such a son as thou art.
     I dare not speak, but my heart bleeds this moment.

     _Jaf._ Cursed be the cause, though I, thy friend, be part
     on't:
     Let me partake the troubles of thy bosom,
     For I am used to misery, and perhaps
     May find a way to sweeten't to thy spirit.

     _Pierre._ [_Turns, L. and looks over a shoulder_.] Too soon
     'twill reach thy knowledge--

     _Jaf._ Then from thee
     Let it proceed. There's virtue in thy friendship,
     Would make the saddest tale of sorrow pleasing,
     Strengthen my constancy, and welcome ruin.

     _Pierre._ Then thou art ruined!

     _Jaf._ That I long since knew;
     I and ill fortune have been long acquainted.

     _Pierre._ I passed this very moment by thy doors,
     And found them guarded by a troop of villains;
     "The sons of public rapine were destroying."
     They told me, by the sentence of the law
     They had commission to seize all thy fortune:
     Nay, more, Priuli's cruel band had signed it.
     Here stood a ruffian, with a horrid face,
     Lording it o'er a pile of massy plate,
     Tumbled into a heap for public sale:
     There was another making villainous jests
     At thy undoing: he had ta'en possession
     Of all thy ancient, most domestic ornaments;
     Rich hangings, intermixed and wrought with gold
     The very bed, which, on thy wedding night,
     Received thee to the arms of Belvidera,
     The scene of all thy joys, was violated
     By the coarse hands of filthy dungeon villains,
     And thrown amongst the common lumber.

     _Jaf._Now, thank heaven--

     _Pierre._ Thank heaven! for what?

     _Jaf._That I'm not worth a ducat.

     _Pierre._ Curse thy dull stars, and the worse fate of Venice,
     Where brothers, friends, and fathers, all are false;
     Where there's no truth, no trust; where innocence
     Stoops under vile oppression, and vice lords it.
     Hadst thou but seen, as I did, how, at last,
     Thy beauteous Belvidera, like a wretch
     That's doomed to banishment, came weeping forth,
     Whilst two young virgins, on whose arms she leaned,
     Kindly looked up, and at her grief grew sad,
     As if they catched the sorrows that fell from her:
     Ev'n the lewd rabble, that were gathered round
     To see the sight, stood mute when they beheld her;
     Governed their roaring throats, and grumbled pity:
     I could have hugged the greasy rogues; they pleased me.

     _Jaf._ I thank thee for this story, from my soul;
     Since now I know the worst that can befall me.
     Ah, Pierre! I have a heart that could have borne
     The roughest wrong my fortune could have done me;
     But when I think what Belvidera feels,
     The bitterness her tender spirits taste of,
     I own myself a coward. Bear my weakness,
     If, throwing thus my arms about thy neck, [_Embrace_,
     I play the boy, and blubber in thy bosom.
     Oh, I shall drown thee with my sorrows.

     _Pierre._ Burn,
     First, burn and level Venice to thy ruin.
     What! starve, like beggars' brats, in frosty weather,
     Under a hedge, and whine ourselves to death!
     Thou, or thy cause, shall never want assistance,
     Whilst I have blood or fortune fit to serve thee:
     Command my heart, thour't every way its master.

     _Jaf._ No; there's a secret pride in bravely dying.

     _Pierre._ Rats die in holes and corners, dogs run mad
     Man knows a braver remedy for sorrow--
     Revenge, the attribute of gods; they stamped it,
     With their great image, on our natures. Die!
     Consider well the cause that calls upon thee,
     And, if thou'rt base enough, die then. Remember
     Thy Belvidera suffers; Belvidera!
     Die!--damn first!--What! be decently interred
     In a church-yard, and mingle thy brave dust--
     With stinking rogues, that rot in winding-sheets,
     Surfeit-slain fools, the common dung o'th' soil!

     _Jaf._ Oh--

     _Pierre._ Well said, out with't--swear a little--

     _Jaf._ Swear! By sea and air; by earth, by heaven and hell,
     I will revenge my Belvidera's tears! _[Both go to the R._
     Hark thee, my friend--Priuli--is--a senator!

     _Pierre._ A dog!

     _Jaf._ Agreed.  _[Return to C._

     _Pierre._ Shoot him!

     _Jaf._ With all my heart!
     No more--where shall we meet at night?

     _Pierre._ I'll tell thee:
     On the Rialto, every night at twelve,
     I take my evening's walk of meditation:
     There we two'll meet, and talk of precious mischief.

     _Jaf._ Farewell!

     _Pierre._ At twelve.

     _Jaf._At any hour: my plagues
     Will keep me waking.

     _[Exit Pierre, R._

     (R. C.) Tell me why, good Heaven,
     Thou mad'st me what I am, with all the spirit,
     Aspiring thoughts, and elegant desires,
     That fill the happiest man! Ah, rather, why
     Didst thou not form me sordid as my fate,
     Base-minded, doll, and fit to carry burdens!
     Why have I sense to know the curse that's on me?
     Is this just dealing, nature! Belvidera!
     Poor Belvidera!

     _Bel._ _[ Without.]_ Lead me, lead me, my virgins.
     To that kind voice.

     _Enter Belvidera, L._

     My lord, my love, my refuge! _[Leans on Jaffier, R. C._
     Happy my eyes when they behold thy face!
     My heavy heart will leave its doleful beating
     At sight of thee, and bound with sprightful joys.
     Oh, smile! as when our loves were in their spring,
     And cheer my fainting soul!

     _Jaf._ (R. C.) As when our loves
     Were in their spring! Has, then, my fortune changed thee?
     Art thou not, Belvidera, still the same,
     Kind, good, and tender, as my arms first found thee?
     If thou art altered, where shall I have harbour?
     Where ease my loaded heart? _[Part]_ Oh! where complain?

     _Bel._ (C.) Does this appear like change, or love decaying,
     When thus I throw myself Into thy bosom,
     With all the resolution of strong truth!

     _[Leans on Jaffier, R. C._

     I joy more in thee
     Than did thy mother, when she hugged thee first,
     And blessed the gods for all her travail past.

     _Jaf._ Can there in woman be such glorious faith?
     Sure, all ill stories of thy sex are false! _[Part._
     Oh, woman! lovely woman! Nature made thee
     To temper man: we had been brutes without you!
     Angels are painted fair to look like you:
     There's in you all that we believe of heaven;
     Amazing brightness, purity, and truth,
     Eternal joy, and everlasting love! _[Embrace._

     _Bel._ If love be treasure, we'll be wondrous rich;
     Oh! lead me to some desert, _[Part,]_ wide and wild,
     Barren as our misfortunes, where my soul
     May have its vent, where I may tell aloud
     To the high heavens, and ev'ry list'ning planet,
     With what a boundless stock my bosom's fraught.

     _Jaf._ _[Taking her hand.]_ Oh, Belvidera! doubly I'm a
     beggar;
     Undone by fortune, and in debt to thee.
     Want, worldly want, that hungry meagre fiend,
     Is at my heels, and chases me in view.
     Canst thou bear cold and hunger? Can these limbs,
     Framed for the tender offices of love,
     Endure the bitteer gripes of smarting poverty?
     When banished by our miseries abroad,
     (As suddenly we shall be) to seek, out,
     In some far climate, where our names are strangers,
     For charitable succour; wilt thou then,
     When in a bed of straw we shrink together,
     And the bleak winds shall whistle round our heads;
     Wilt thou then talk thus to me? Wilt thou then
     Hush my cares thus, and shelter me with love?

     _Bel._ Oh! I will love thee, even in madness love thee!
     Though my distracted senses should forsake me,
     I'd find some intervals when my poor heart
     Should 'suage itself, and be let loose to thine.
     THE REFORMATION AND FREEDOM
     The break with Rome did not introduce religious
     liberty into Europe.
     Nothing was further from the minds of Luther, Calvin,
     and other reformers than the toleration
     of Reformation beliefs unlike their own. The early
     Protestant sects punished dissenters as zealously as the Roman
Church punished heretics.

     Lutherans burned the followers of Zwingli in Germany,
     Calvin
     put Servetus to death, and the English government,
     in the time of Henry VIII and Elizabeth,
     executed many Roman Catholics. Complete
     freedom of conscience and the right of private
     judgment in religion have been secured in
     most European countries only within the last hundred years.

     THE REFORMATION AND MORALS
     
     The Reformation, however, did deepen the moral
     life of European peoples.
     The faithful Protestant or Roman Catholic vied with his neighbor
in trying to show that his particular belief made for better living
than any other.

     The sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, in consequence, were more
earnest and serious, if also more bigoted, than the centuries of
the Renaissance.

235.

     THE CATHOLIC COUNTER REFORMATION
     THE REFORMING POPES
     The rapid
     spread of Protestantism soon brought about a Catholic Counter
Reformation in those parts of Europe which remained faithful to Rome.

     The popes now turned from the cultivation of Renaissance art and
literature to the defense of their threatened faith.

They made needed changes in the papal court and appointed to
ecclesiastical offices men distinguished for virtue and learning.

     This reform of the Papacy dates from the time of Paul III, who
became pope in 1534 A.D.

     He opened the college of cardinals to Roman Catholic reformers,
even offering a seat in it to Erasmus.

     Still more important was his support of the famous
     Society of
     Jesus, which had been established in the
     year of his accession to the papal throne.
     
     ST. IGNATIUS LOYOLA, 1491-1556 A.D.
     
     The founder of the new society was a Spanish
     nobleman, Ignatius Loyola. He had seen
     a good deal of service in the wars of Charles V against
     the French. While in a hospital recovering
     from a wound Loyola read devotional books, and these produced a
profound change within him.

     He now decided to abandon the career of arms and to become, instead,
the knight of Christ.

     So Loyola donned a beggar's robe, practiced all the kinds
     of asceticism which his books described, and went
     on a pilgrimage to Jerusalem.

     The turning-point of his career came
     with his visit to Paris to study theology.

     Here Loyola met the six devout and talented men who became
     the first members of his society. They
     intended to work as missionaries among the Moslems, but, when this
plan fell through, they visited Rome and placed their energy and
enthusiasm at the disposal of the pope.

     [Illustration: ST.

     IGNATIUS LOYOLA] 
THE SOCIETY OF JESUS
Loyola's military training deeply affected the character of the new
order.

     The Jesuits, as their Protestant opponents styled them, were to be
an army of spiritual soldiers, living under the strictest obedience
to their head, or general.

     Like soldiers, again, they were to remain in the world, and there
fight manfully for the Church and against heretics.

     The society grew rapidly;
     before Loyola's death it included over a
     thousand members; and in the seventeenth century
     it became the most influential of all the religious
     orders. [21] The activity of the Jesuits as preachers, confessors,
teachers, and missionaries did much to roll back the rising tide
of Protestantism in Europe.

     JESUIT SCHOOLS

     The Jesuits gave special attention to education, for they realized
the importance of winning over the young people to the Church.

     Their schools were so good that even Protestant children often
attended them.

     The popularity of Jesuit teachers arose partly from the fact that
they always tried to lead, not drive their pupils.

     Light punishments, short lessons, many
     holidays, and a liberal use of prizes and other
     distinctions formed some of the attractive features of their system
of training.

     It is not surprising that the Jesuits became the instructors of the
Roman Catholic world.

     They called their colleges the
     "fortresses of the faith."
     JESUIT MISSIONS
     The missions of the Jesuits were not less important than their
schools.

     The Jesuits worked in Poland,
     Hungary, Bohemia, and other countries where
     Protestantism threatened to become dominant.
     Then they invaded all the lands which the great maritime
     discoveries of the preceding age had laid open to European enterprise.

     In India, China, the East Indies, Japan, the Philippines,
     Africa, and
     the two Americas their converts from heathenism
     were numbered by hundreds of thousands.
     
     ST. FRANCIS XAVIER, 1506-1552 A.D.
     

     The most eminent of all Jesuit
     missionaries, St. Francis Xavier, had belonged
     to Loyola's original band. He was a little,
     blue-eyed man, an engaging preacher, an
     excellent organizer, and possessed of so attractive a personality
that even the ruffians and pirates with whom he had to associate
on his voyages became his friends.

     Xavier labored with such devotion
     and success in the Portuguese colonies of the Far
     East as to gain the title of "Apostle to the Indies."

     He also introduced Christianity in Japan, where it
     flourished until a persecuting emperor
     extinguished it with fire and sword.
     
     COUNCIL OF TRENT, 1545-1563 A.D.

     Another agency in the Counter Reformation was the great Church
Council summoned by Pope Paul III.

     The council met at Trent, on the borders of Germany and Italy.

     It continued, with intermissions, for nearly twenty years.

     The Protestants, though invited to participate, did not attend, and
hence nothing could be done to bring them back within the Roman
Catholic fold.

     This was the last general
     council of the Church for over three hundred years. [22]
WORK OF THE COUNCIL
The Council of Trent made no essential changes in the Roman Catholic
doctrines, which remained as St.

     Thomas Aquinas [23] and other theologians had set them forth in the
Middle Ages.

     In opposition to the Protestant view, it
     declared that the tradition of the Church possessed equal authority
with the Bible.

     It reaffirmed the supremacy of the pope over
     Christendom.

     The council also passed important decrees forbidding the sale
     of ecclesiastical offices and requiring bishops and other prelates
to attend strictly to their duties.

     Since the Council of Trent the Roman
     Church has been distinctly a religious organization,
     instead of both a secular and religious body, as was the
     Church in the Middle Ages. [24]
     THE INDEX
     The council, before adjourning, authorized the
     pope to draw up a list, or Index, of works
     which Roman Catholics might not read. This
     action did not form an innovation. The Church
     from an early day had condemned and destroyed heretical writings.

     However, the invention of printing, by giving greater currency
     to new and dangerous ideas, increased the
     necessity for the regulation of thought.
     The "Index of Prohibited Books" still exists,
     and additions to the list are made from
     time to time. It was matched by the strict
     censorship of printing long maintained in
     Protestant countries.
     

     THE INQUISITION
      Still another agency of the Counter
     Reformation consisted of the Inquisition.
     This was a system of church courts for the discovery
     and punishment of heretics. Such courts
     had been set up in the Middle Ages, for instance, to suppress the
Albigensian heresy.

     After the Council of Trent they redoubled their activity, especially
in Italy, the Netherlands, and Spain.

     INFLUENCE OF THE INQUISITION

     The Inquisition probably contributed to the
     disappearance of Protestantism in Italy.
     In the Netherlands, where it worked with great
     severity, it only aroused exasperation and hatred
     and helped to provoke a successful revolt
     of the Dutch people. The Spaniards, on the other
     hand, approved of the methods of the Inquisition
     and welcomed its extermination of Moors and Jews,
     as well as Protestant heretics. The Spanish
     Inquisition was not abolished till the nineteenth
     century.

     

     

     236. SPAIN UNDER PHILIP II, 1556-1598 A.D.
     

     ABDICATION OF CHARLES V, 1555-1556 A.D.

     In 1555 A.D., the year of the Peace of Augsburg, [25] Charles V
determined to abdicate his many crowns and seek the repose of a
monastery.

     The plan was duly carried into effect. His brother Ferdinand I
     succeeded to the title of Holy Roman Emperor
     and the Austrian territories, while his
     son, Philip II, [26] received the Spanish
     possessions in Italy, the Netherlands, and America.

     There were now two branches of the Hapsburg family--one
     in Austria and one in Spain.
     
     PHILIP II
     The new king of Spain was a man of unflagging
     energy, strong will, and deep attachment to the Roman Church.

     As a ruler he had two great
     ideals:
     to make Spain the foremost state in the world and to
     secure the triumph of the Roman Catholic
     faith over Protestantism. His efforts to realize
     these ideals largely determined European history
     during the second half of the sixteenth
     century.
     

     [Illustration: PHILIP II After the portrait by Titian.]

     BATTLE OF LEPANTO, 1571 A.D.

     
     The Spanish monarch won renown by becoming the champion of Christendom
against the Ottoman Turks.

     At this time the Turks had a strong navy,
     by means of which
     they captured Cyprus from the Venetians and ravaged
     Sicily and southern Italy. Grave danger
     existed that they would soon control all the
     Mediterranean. To stay their further progress
     one of the popes preached what was really the
     last crusade. The fleets of Genoa and Venice united
     with those of Spain and under Don John of Austria, Philip's half-
brother, totally defeated the Turkish squadron in the gulf of
Lepanto, off the western coast of Greece.

     The battle gave a blow to the sea-power of the Turks from which
they never recovered and ended their aggressive warfare in the
Mediterranean.

     Lepanto is one of the proud names in the history of
     Spain.
     

     ANNEXATION OF PORTUGAL, 1581 A.D.
     
     Philip had inherited an extensive realm. He further
     widened it by the annexation of Portugal,
     thus completing the unification of the
     Spanish peninsula.

     The Portuguese colonies in Africa, Asia, and America also passed
into Spanish hands.

     The union of Spain and Portugal under one crown never
     commanded any affection among the Portuguese, who were proud of
their nationality and of their achievements as explorers and empire-
builders.

     Portugal separated from Spain in 1640 A.D. and has since remained
an independent state.

     [Illustration: THE
     ESCORIAL This remarkable edifice, at once a
     convent, a church, a palace, and a royal mausoleum, is situated
in a sterile and gloomy wilderness about twenty-seven miles from
Madrid.

     It was begun by Philip II in 1563 A.D.
and was completed twenty-one years later.

     The Escorial is dedicated to St.

     Lawrence, that saint's day (August 10, 1557) being
     the day when the Spanish king won a great victory over the French
at the battle of St.

     Quentin. The huge dimensions of the Escorial
     may be inferred from the fact that it includes
     eighty-six staircases, eighty-nine fountains, fifteen
     cloisters, 1,200 doors, 2,600 windows, and
     miles of corridors. The building material is
     a granite-like stone obtained in the
     neighborhood.
     The Escorial contains a library of rare books and manuscripts and
a collection of valuable paintings.

     In the royal mausoleum under the altar of the church lie the remains
of Charles V, Philip II, and many of their successors.]

     PHILIP'S FAILURES

     But the successes of Philip were more
     than offset by his failures. Though he had
     vast possessions, enormous revenues, mighty fleets,
     and armies reputed the best of the age, he could not dominate
western Europe.

     His attempt to conquer England, a stronghold of
     Protestantism under Elizabeth, resulted in
     disaster. Not less disastrous was his life-long
     struggle with the Netherlands.
     
     
     237. REVOLT OF THE NETHERLANDS
     THE NETHERLANDS

     The seventeen provinces of the Netherlands occupied the flat, low
country along the North Sea--the Holland, Belgium, and northern
France of the present day.

     During the fifteenth century they became Hapsburg possessions and
thus belonged to the Holy Roman Empire.

     As we have learned,
     Charles V received them as a
     part of his inheritance, and he, in turn, transmitted
     them to Philip II.
     
     CONDITION OF THE NETHERLANDS
     The inhabitants of the Netherlands were not racially united.

     In the southernmost provinces Celtic
     blood and Romance speech prevailed, while
     farther north dwelt peoples of Teutonic extraction,
     who spoke Flemish and Dutch.

     Each province likewise kept its own
     government and customs. The prosperity which
     had marked the Flemish cities during the
     Middle Ages [27] extended in the sixteenth century to the Dutch
cities also.

     Rotterdam, Leyden, Utrecht, and Amsterdam
     profited by the geographical discoveries
     and became centers of extensive commerce with Asia and America.

     The rise of the Dutch power, in a
     country so exposed to destructive inundations of both sea and
rivers, is a striking instance of what can be accomplished by a
frugal, industrious population.

     PROTESTANTISM IN THE NETHERLANDS
     The Netherlands
     were too near Germany not to be affected
     by the Reformation. Lutheranism soon appeared
     there, only to encounter the hostility of Charles V, who introduced
the terrors of the Inquisition.

     Many heretics were burned
     at the stake, or beheaded, or buried alive.

     But there is no
     seed like martyr's blood. The number of
     Protestants swelled, rather than lessened,
     especially after Calvinism entered the Netherlands.

     As a Jesuit historian remarked, "Nor did the Rhine
     from Germany or the Meuse from France
     send more water into the Low Countries
     than by the one the contagion of Luther, and by the
     other that of Calvin, were imported into these
     provinces."
     POLICY OF PHILIP II
     In spite of the cruel treatment of heretics by Charles V, both
Flemish and Dutch remained loyal to the emperor, because he had
been born and reared among them and always considered their country
as his own.

     But Philip II, a Spaniard by birth and sympathies, seemed
     to them only a foreign master.
     The new ruler did nothing to conciliate the
     people.

     He never visited the Netherlands after 1559
     A.D., but governed them despotically through Spanish
     officials supported by Spanish garrisons.
     Arbitrary taxes were levied, cities and nobles were deprived of
their cherished privileges, and the activity of the Inquisition was
redoubled.

     Philip intended to
     exercise in the Netherlands the same absolute
     power which he enjoyed in Spain.
     
     ALVA SENT TO THE NETHERLANDS, 1567 A.D.
     

     The religious persecution which by Philip's orders
     raged
     through the Netherlands everywhere aroused
     intense indignation. The result was rioting by mobs
     of Protestants, who wrecked churches and monasteries
     and carried off the treasure they found in
     them. Philip replied to these acts by sending
     his best army, under the duke of Alva, his best general, to reduce
the turbulent provinces into submission.

     OUTBREAK OF THE REVOLT

     Alva carried out with thoroughness the policy
     of his royal master. A tribunal, popularly
     known as the "Council of Blood," was set up for the
     punishment of treason and heresy. Hundreds,
     and probably thousands, perished; tens of thousands
     fled to Germany and England. Alva, as
     governor-general, also raised enormous
     taxes, which threatened to destroy the trade
     and manufactures of the Netherlands.

     Under these circumstances Roman Catholics and Protestants, nobles
and townsfolk, united against their Spanish oppressors.

     A revolt began which Spain could never quell.

     
     WILLIAM THE SILENT, 1533-1584 A.D.
     
     The Netherlands found a leader in
     William, Prince of Orange, later known as
     William the Silent, because of his customary
     discreetness. He was of German birth, a convert
     to Protestantism, and the owner of large estates
     in the Netherlands. William had fair ability
     as a general, a statesmanlike grasp of the
     situation, and above all a stout, courageous
     heart which never wavered in moments of
     danger and defeat.

     To rescue the Netherlands from Spain he sacrificed his high position,
his wealth, and eventually his life.

     [Illustration: WILLIAM THE SILENT]
     SEPARATION OF THE NETHERLANDS
     The ten southern provinces of the Netherlands,
     mainly Roman Catholic in population, soon effected
     a reconciliation with Philip and returned
     to their allegiance. They remained in Hapsburg hands
     for over two centuries.
     Modern Belgium has grown out of them. The
     seven northern provinces, where Dutch was the
     language and Protestantism the religion, formed in 1579 A.D.
the Union of Utrecht.

     Two years later they declared their
     independence of Spain.

     Thus the republic of the United Netherlands, often known as Holland,
the most important of the seven provinces, came into being.

     [Illustration: Map,
     THE NETHERLANDS IN THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY]
     COURSE OF THE REVOLT
     _[She leans on Jaffier._

     _Ren._ _[Advancing to her.]_ Rise, madam, and command
     among your servants--

     _Jaf._ To you, sirs, and your honours, I bequeath her,

     _[They lay hold of her._

     And with her, this; whene'er I prove unworthy--

     _[Gives a Dagger to Renault._

     You know the rest. Then strike it to her heart;
     And tell her, he, who three whole happy years,
     Lay in her arms, and each kind night repeated
     The passionate vows of still increasing love,
     Sent that reward, for all her truth and sufferings.

     _Bel._ _[Held between Bed. & Ren.]_ Oh, thou unkind one!
     Have I deserved this from you?
     Look on me, tell me, speak, thou dear deceiver,
     Why am I separated from thy love?
     If I am false, accuse me; but if true,
     Don't, pr'ythee don't, in poverty forsake me,

     _[Breaks away, and runs back to Jaffier_

     But pity the sad heart, that's torn with parting.

     _[They retake her_

     Yet, hear me; yet, recall me. Jaffier, Jaffier!

     _[Exeunt Bedamar, &c, dragging her L. S. E., Jaffier R._

     END OF ACT II.


ACT III.

     _Scene I.--A Room in the House of Aquilina._
     _Enter Belvidera, L. S. E._

     _Bel._ I'm sacrificed! I'm sold--betrayed to shame!
     inevitable ruin has enclosed me!
     He, that should guard my virtue, has betrayed it;--
     Left me--undone me! Oh, that I could hate him!--
     Where shall I go? Oh, whither, whither wander?

     _Enter Jaffier, R._

     _Jaf._ (R. C.) Can Belvidera want a resting-place,
     When these poor arms are open to receive her?
     There was a time--

     _Bel._ (C.) Yes, yes, there was a time
     When Belvidera's tears, her cries and sorrows,
     Were not despised; when, if she chanced to sigh,
     Or look but sad----There was, indeed, a time,
     When Jaffier would have ta'en her in his arms,
     Eased her declining head upon his breast,
     And never left her, till he found the cause.
     But well I know why you forsake me thus;
     I am no longer fit to bear a share
     In your concernments: my weak female virtue
     Must not be trusted: 'tis too frail and tender. _[Crosses, R._

     _Jaf._ Oh, Portia, Portia, what a soul was thine!

     _Bel._ _[Returns to L. C.]_ That Portia was a woman; and
     when Brutus,
     Big with the fate of Rome (Heav'n guard thy safety!)
     Concealed from her the labours of his mind,
     She let him see her blood was great as his,
     Flowed from a spring as noble, and a heart
     Fit to partake his troubles, as his love.
     Fetch, fetch that dagger back, the dreadful dower
     Thou gav'st last night, in parting with me; strike it
     Here to my heart; and as the blood flows from it,
     Judge if it run not pure as Cato's daughter's.

     _Jaf._ (R.) Oh, Belvidera!

     _Bel._ (C.) Why was I last night delivered to a villain?

     _Jaf._ Ha! a villain?

     _Bel._ (R.) Yes, to a villain! Why, at such an hour,
     Meets that assembly, all made up of wretches,
     That look as hell had drawn them into league?
     Why, I in this hand, and in that, a dagger,
     Was I delivered with such dreadful ceremonies?
     "To you, sirs, and your honours, I bequeath her,
     And with her, this: Whene'er I prove unworthy--
     You know the rest--then strike it to her heart."
     Oh! _[Turns from him.]_ why's that rest concealed from
     me? Must I
     Be made the hostage of a hellish trust?
     For such, I know I am; that's all my value.
     But, by the love and loyalty I owe thee,
     I'll free thee from the bondage of these slaves!
     Straight to the senate--tell them all I know, _[Going, L._
     All that I think, all that my fears inform me.

     _Jaf._ (C.) Is this the Roman virtue? this the blood,
     That boasts its purity with Cato's daughter?
     Would she have e'er betrayed her Brutus? _[Going to her_

     _Bel._ (L.) No;
     For Brutus trusted her. _[Leans on him.]_ Wert thou so kind,
     What would not Belvidera suffer for thee?

     _Jaf._ I shall undo myself, and tell thee all--
     Yet think a little, ere thou tempt me further;
     Think I've a tale to tell will shake thy nature,
     Melt all this boasted constancy thou talk'st of,
     Into vile tears and despicable sorrows;
     Then, if thou shouldst betray me--

     _Bel._ Shall I swear?

     _Jaf._ No, do not swear: I would not violate
     Thy tender nature with so rude a bond;
     But, as thou hop'st to see me live my days,
     And love thee long, lock this within thy breast:
     I've bound myself, by all the strictest sacraments,
     Divine and human--

     _Bel._ Speak!

     _Jaf._ To kill thy father--

     _Bel._ My father! _[Part.]_

     _Jaf._ Nay, the throats of the whole senate
     Shall bleed, my Belvidera. He, amongst us,
     That spares his father, brother, or his friend,
     Is damned.

     _Bel._ Oh!

     _Jaf._ Have a care, and shrink not even in thought
     For, if thou dost--

     _Bel._ (L. C.) I know it: thou wilt kill me.
     Do! strike thy sword into this bosom: lay me
     Dead on the earth, and then thou wilt be safe.
     Murder my father! Though his cruel nature,
     Has persecuted me to my undoing,
     Driven me to basest wants; can I behold him,
     With smiles of vengeance, butchered in his age?
     The sacred fountain of my life destroyed?
     And canst thou shed the blood that gave me being?

     _[Leans on him_

     Nay, be a traitor, too, and sell thy country!
     Can thy great heart descend so vilely low,
     Mix with hired slaves, bravos, and common stabbers,
     Join such a crew, and take a ruffian's wages,
     To cut the throats of wretches as they sleep? _[Part._

     _Jaf._ (R. C.) Thou wrong'st me, Belvidera! I've engaged
     With men of souls, fit to reform the ills
     Of all mankind: there's not a heart among them,
     But's stout as death, yet honest as the nature
     Of man first made, ere fraud and vice were fashion.

     _Bel._ (L.) What's he, to whose cursed hands last night
     thou gav'st me?
     Was that well done? Oh! I could tell a story,
     Would rouse thy lion heart out of its den,
     And make it rage with terrifying fury!

     _Jaf._ (C.) Speak on, I charge thee!

     _Bel._ Oh, my love! _[Leaning on him,]_ if e'er
     Thy Belvidera's peace deserved thy care,
     Remove me from this place. Last night! last night!

     _Jaf._ Distract me not, but give me all the truth!

     _Bel._ No sooner wert thou gone, and I alone,
     Left in the power of that old son of mischief;
     No sooner was I laid on my sad bed,
     But that vile wretch approached me. Then my heart
     Throbbed with its fears;--
     Oh, how I wept and sighed,
     And shrunk, and trembled! wished, in vain, for him
     That should protect me! Thou, alas, wast gone!

     _Jaf._ [Turning, R.] Patience, sweet Heaven, till I make
     vengeance sure!

     _Bel._ He drew the hideous dagger forth, thou gav'st him,
     And, with upbraiding smiles, he said, "Behold it:
     This is the pledge of a false husband's love:"
     And in his arms then pressed, and would have clasped me;
     But, with my cries, I scared his coward heart,
     Till he withdrew, and muttered vows to hell.

     _[Rush into each other's arms._

     These are thy friends! _[Part]_with
     these thy life: thy honour,
     Thy love, all staked--and all will go to ruin!

     _Jaf._ (C.) No more; I charge thee, keep this secret close.
     Clear up thy sorrows; look as if thy wrongs
     Were all forgot, and treat him like a friend,
     As no complaint were made. No more; retire,
     Retire, my life, and doubt not of my honour;
     I'll heal its failings, and deserve thy love.

     _Bel._ (L.) Oh! should I part with thee, I fear thou wilt
     In anger leave me, and return no more.

     _Jaf._ Return no more! I would not live without thee
     Another night, to purchase the creation.

     _Bel._ When shall we meet again?

     _Jaf._ Anon, at twelve,
     I'll steal myself to thy expecting arms:
     Come, like a travelled dove, and bring thee peace.

     _Bel._ Indeed!

     _Jaf._ By all our loves!

     _Bel._ 'Tis hard to part:
     But sure no falsehood ever looked so fairly.
     Farewell! remember twelve. _[Exit, L. D._

     _Jaf._ (C.) Let Heav'n forget me,
     When I remember not thy truth, thy love!

     _Enter Pierre, R._

     _Pierre._ Jaffier!

     _Jaf._ (L.) Who calls?

     _Pierre._ (R. C.) A friend, that could have wished
     T' have found thee otherwise employed. "What, hunt
     A wife, on the dull soil! Sure, a stanch husband,
     Of all hounds is the dullest. Wilt thou never,
     Never be weaned from caudles and confections?
     What feminine tales hast thou been listening to,
     Of unaired shirts? catarrhs, and tooth-ache, got
     By thin-soled shoes? Damnation! than a fellow,
     Chosen to be a sharer in the destruction
     Of a whole people, should sneak thus in corners,
     To waste his time, and fool his mind with love!

     _Jaf._ (L. C.) May not a man, then, trifle out an hour
     With a kind woman, and not wrong his calling!

     _Pierre._ (R.) Not in a cause like ours.

     _Jaf._ Then, friend, our cause
     Is in a damned condition: for I'll tell thee,
     That canker-worm, called lechery, has touched it;
     'Tis tainted vilely. Wouldst thou think it? Renault,
     (That mortified, old, withered, winter rogue,)
     Loves simple fornication like a priest;
     I've found him out at watering for my wife;
     He visited her last night, like a kind guardian;
     Faith, she has some temptations, that's the truth on't.

     _Pierre._ (R. C.) He durst not wrong his trust!

     _Jaf._ 'Twas something late, though,
     To take the freedom of a lady's chamber.

     _Pierre._ Was she in bed?

     _Jaf._ Yes, 'faith! in virgin sheets,
     "White as her bosom, Pierre; dished neatly up,--
     "Might tempt a weaker appetite to taste."

     _Pierre._ Patience guide me!
     He used no violence?

     _Jaf._ No, no: out on't, violence!
     Played with her neck; brushed her with his grey beard;
     Struggled and touzed; tickled her till she squeaked a little,
     May be, or so--but not a jot of violence--

     _Pierre._ [Runs to R. D.] Damn him!
     _Jaf._ Ay, so say I: but, hush, no more on't!
     Sure it is near the hour
     We all should meet for our concluding orders:
     Will the ambassador be here in person?

     _Pierre._ (R. C.) No, he has sent commission to that villain.

     _Ren._ To give the executing charge:
     I'd have thee be a man, if possible,
     And keep thy temper: for a brave revenge
     Ne'er comes too late.

     _Jaf._ (C.) Fear not; I'm cool as patience.

     _Pierre._ He's yonder, coming this way, through the hall:
     His thoughts seem full.

     _Jaf._ Pr'ythee, retire, and leave me
     With him alone; I'll put him to some trial;
     See how his rotten part will bear the touching.

     _Pierre._ Be careful, then.

     _Jaf._ Nay, never doubt, but trust me.

     _[Exit Pierre, R. U. E._

     What! be a devil, take a damning oath
     For shedding native blood? Can there be sin,
     In merciful repentance? Oh, this villain! _[Retires up, C._

     _Enter Renault, L. U. E._

     _Ren._ (L. C.) Perverse and peevish: What a slave is man,
     To let his itching flesh thus get the better of him!
     Despatch the tool, her husband--that were well.--
     Who's there?

     _Jaf._ A man.  _[Advancing_

     _Ren._ My friend, my near ally,
     The hostage of your faith, my beauteous charge, is very
     well.

     _Jaf._ (R. C.) Sir, are you sure of that!
     Stands she in perfect health? Beats her pulse even?
     Neither too hot nor cold?

     _Ren._ What means that question!

     _Jaf._ Oh! women have fantastic constitutions,
     Inconstant in their wishes, always wavering,
     And never fixed. Was it not boldly done,
     Ev'n at first sight, to trust the thing I loved
      (A tempting treasure, too,) with youth so fierce
     And vigorous as thine? but thou art honest.

     _Ren._ Who dares accuse me!

     _Jaf._ Cursed be he that doubts
     Thy virtue! I have tried it, and declare,
     Were I to choose a guardian of my honour,
     I'd put it in thy keeping; for I know thee.

     _Ren._ Know me!

     _Jaf._ Ay, know thee.--There's no falsehood in thee;
     Thou look's just as thou art. Let us embrace.--
     Now, wouldst thou cut my throat, or I cut thine!

     _Ren._ You dare not do't!

     _Jaf._ You lie, sir!

     _Ren._ How!

     _Jaf._ No more.--
     'Tis a base world, and must reform; that's all.

     _Enter Spinosa, Elliot, Theodore, Durand,
     and Mezzana._

     _Ren._ Spinosa, Theodore, you are welcome.

     _Spin._ You are trembling, sir.

     _Ren._ 'Tis a cold night, indeed; and I am aged;
     Full of decay, and natural infirmities.
     We shall be warm, my friends, I hope, to-morrow.

     She also married her Roman Catholic cousin, Philip of Spain, the
son of Charles V.

     Mary now began a severe persecution of the Protestants.

     It gained for her the epithet of "Bloody," but it did not succeed
     in stamping out
     heresy. Many eminent reformers perished, among them Cranmer, the
former archbishop.

     Mary died childless, after ruling about five years, and
     the crown passed to Anne Boleyn's daughter,
     Elizabeth. Under Elizabeth Anglicanism
     again replaced Roman Catholicism as the religion of England.

234.

     THE PROTESTANT SECTS

     EXTENT OF PROTESTANTISM

     The Reformation was practically completed before the close of the
sixteenth century.

     In 1500 A.D. the Roman Church embraced
     all Europe west of Russia and the Balkan
     peninsula. By 1575 A.D. nearly half of
     its former subjects had renounced their allegiance.

     The greater part of Germany and Switzerland and all of Denmark,
Norway, Sweden, Holland, England, and Scotland became independent
of the Papacy.

     The unity of western Christendom, which had been
     preserved throughout the Middle Ages, thus disappeared
     and has not since been
     revived.
     
     [Illustration: Map, EXTENT OF THE REFORMATION, 1524-1572 A.D.]

     COMMON FEATURES OF PROTESTANTISM
     The reformers agreed in substituting for the authority of popes and
church councils the authority of the Bible.

     They went back fifteen hundred years to the
     time of the Apostles and tried to restore
     what they believed to be Apostolic Christianity.
     Hence they rejected such
     doctrines and practices as were supposed
     to have developed during the Middle Ages.
     The Reformation also abolished the monastic
     system and priestly celibacy. The sharp
     distinction between clergy and laity disappeared,
     for priests married, lived among the people,
     and no longer formed a separate class. In
     general, Protestantism affirmed the ability
     of every man to find salvation without the aid
     of ecclesiastics. The Church was no
     longer the only "gate of heaven."

     [Illustration: CHAINED BIBLE In the church of St. Crux,
     York.]
     

     DIVISIONS AMONG PROTESTANTS
     But the Protestant idea of authority led
     inevitably to differences
     of opinion among the reformers. There
     were various ways of interpreting that Bible
     to which they appealed as the rule of faith
     and conduct.
     Consequently, Protestantism split up into many sects or denominations,
and these have gone on multiplying to the present day.

     Nearly all, however, are offshoots from the three
     main varieties of Protestantism which appeared in the sixteenth
century.

     LUTHERANISM AND ANGLICANISM
     
     Lutheranism and Anglicanism presented
     some features in common. Both were state churches,
     supported by the government; both had a book of common prayer; and
both recognized the sacraments of baptism, the eucharist, and
confirmation.

     take me to thy arms,
     Ard show me where's my peace, for I have lost it.

     _[Exit, L. D._

     _Ren._ (L. C.) Without the least remorse, then, let's resolve
     With fire and sword t'exterminate these tyrants,
     Under whose weight this wretched country labours.

     _Pierre._ (R.) And may those Powers above, that are propitious
     To gallant minds, record this cause, and bless it!

     _Ren._ (L.) Thus happy, thus secure of all we wish for,
     Should there, my friends, be found among us one
     False to this glorious enterprise, what fate,
     What vengeance, were enough for such a villain!

     _Elliot._ (R. C.) Death here, without repentance--hell
     hereafter!

     _Ren._ (C.) Let that be my lot, if, as here I stand,
     Listed by fate among her darling sons,
     Tho' I had one only brother, dear by all
     The strictest ties of nature,
     Joined in this cause, and had but ground to fear
     He meant foul play; may this right hand drop from me,
     If I'd not hazard all my future peace,
     And stab him to the heart before you! Who,
     Who would do less! Would'st thou not, Pierre, the same?

     _Pierre._ You've singled me, sir, out for this hard question,
     As if 'twere started only for my sake:
     Am I the thing you fear? Here, here's my bosom;
     Search it with all your swords. Am I a traitor?

     _Ren._ No: but I fear your late commended friend
     Is little less. Come, sirs, 'tis now no time
     To trifle with our safety. Where's this Jaffier?

     _Spin._ (R. C.) He left the room just now, in strange disorder.

     _Ren._ Nay, there is danger in him: I observed him;
     During the time I took for explanation,
     He was transported from most deep attention
     To a confusion, which he could not smother.
     What's requisite for safety, must be done
     With speedy execution; he remains
     Yet in our power; I, for my own part, wear
     A dagger--

     _Pierre._ Well? _[Goes to Renault_

     _Ren._ And I could wish it--

     _Pierre._ Where?

     _Ren._ Buried in his heart.

     _Pierre._ Away! we're yet all friends.--
     No more of this; 'twill breed ill blood among us.

     _Spin._ Let us all draw our swords, and search the house;
     Pull him from the dark hole, where he sits brooding
     O'er his cold fears, and each man kill his share of him.

     _Pierre._ (L.) Who talks of killing] Who's he'll shed
     the blood,
     That's dear to me? I'st you, or you, or you, sir?

     _[Passing from L. to R._

     What! not one speak? how you stand gaping all
     On your grave oracle, your wooden god there!
     Yet not a word? Then, sir, I'll tell you a secret;
     Suspicion's but at best a coward's virtue. It consisted of translations into noble English of various parts
of the old Latin service books.

     With some changes, it is still used in the Church of England and
the Protestant Episcopal Church of the United States.

     THE CATHOLIC REACTION UNDER MARY TUDOR, 1553-1558
     A.D.
     

     The short reign of Mary Tudor, daughter of Catherine of Aragon, was
marked by a temporary setback to the Protestant cause.

     The queen prevailed on Parliament to secure a reconciliation with
Rome.

     

     

     

     
     One such word more, by Heaven, I'll to the
     senate,
     And hang ye all, like dogs, in clusters.
     Why peep your coward swords half out their sheaths?
     Why do you not all brandish them like mine?
     You fear to die, and yet dare talk of killing. _[Going, L._

     _Ren._ (R. C.) Go to the senate, and betray us--haste!
     Secure thy wretched life; we fear to die
     Less than thou dar'st be honest.

     _Pierre._ That's rank falsehood.
     Fear'st thou not death? Fie, there's a knavish itch
     In that salt blood, an utter foe to smarting!
     Had Jaffier's wife proved kind, he'd still been true.
     Faugh--how that stinks!

     _[Exit Renault, R._

     "Thou die? thou kill my friend?
     "Or thou? with that lean, withered, wretched face!"
     Away, disperse all to your several charges,
     And meet to-morrow, where your honour calls you.

     _[Retiring to M. D._

     I'll bring that man whose blood you so much thirst for,
     And you shall see him venture for you fairly--
     Hence, hence, I say!

     There was a plague of rats in the
     settlement, and they were purchased as a speculation, which proved
an excellent one.

     Their first kittens produced thirty _oilavas_ each; the new generation
were worth twenty; and the price gradually fell as the inhabitants
were stocked with these beautiful and useful creatures.

     Montengro presented to the elder Almagro the first cat which was
brought to South America, and was rewarded for it with six hundred
_pesos_

     .
     
     * * * * *
     
     THE DEATH OF KING JOHN.
     
     _Extracted from an old black-letter volume, entitled "The Abridgment
of the Acts and Monuments of Martyrs, from the earliest period of
Christian suffering to the time of Queen Elizabeth, our gracious
lady, now reigning," printed in her reign_.

     (_For the Mirror_.)
     

     In the yeere 1216, king John was poisoned, as most writers
     testify, at Swinsted Abbey, by a monk of that
     abbey, of the order of Cistersians, or S. Bernard's
     brethren, called Simon of Swinsted. The monk
     did first consult with his abbot, shewing
     him what he minded to do, alleging for
     himself the prophecy of Caiphas, 11th of John, saying,
     it is better that one man die, than the whole
     people perish. I am well content, saith he, to
     lose my life, and so become a martyr, that I may utterly
     destroy this tyrant. With that the abbot did
     weep for gladness, and much commended his fervent
     zeal. The monk then being absolved of
     his abbot for doing this fact, went secretly into the garden, on
the back side, and finding there a most venomous toad, did so prick
him and press him with his penknife, that hee made him vomite all
the poison that was within him; this done, he conveyed it into a
cup of wine, and with a flattering and smiling countenance he sayeth
to the king, "If it shall please your princely majesty, here is
such a cup of wine as you never drank better in your lifetime.

     I trust this wassall shall make all England glad," and with that
he drank a great draught thereof, and the king pledged him; the
monk then went out of the house to the back, and then died, his
bowels gushing out of his belly, and had continually from henceforth
three monks to sing mass for him, confirmed by their general charter.

     

     

     

     
     Why wilt thou damn me?

     _Bel._ Oh, inconstant man!
     How will you promise! how will you deceive!
     Do, return back, replace me in my bondage,
     Tell all thy friends how dangerously thou lov'st me,
     And let thy dagger do its bloody office.
     Or, if thou think'st it nobler, let me live,
     Till I'm a victim to the hateful will
     Of that infernal devil!
     Last night, my love--

     _Jaf._ Name, name it not again:
     Destruction, swift destruction,
     Fall on my coward head, if
     I forgive him!

     _Bel._ Delay no longer, then, but to the senate,
     And tell the dismal'st story ever uttered;
     Tell them what bloodshed, rapines, desolations,
     Have been prepared;--how near's the fatal hour.
     Save thy poor country, save the rev'rend blood
     Of all its nobles, which to-morrow's dawn
     Must else see shed!

     _Jaf._ Oh!

     _Bel._ Think what then may prove
     My lot: the ravisher may then come safe,
     And, 'midst the terror of the public ruin,
     Do a damned deed.

     _Jaf._ By all Heav'n's powers, prophetic truth dwells in thee!
     For every word thou speak'st, strikes through my heart,
     Like a new light, and shows it how't has wandered--
     Just what thou'st made me, take me, Belvidera,
     And lead me to the place, where I'm to say
     This bitter lesson; where I must betray
     My truth, my virtue, constancy, and friends.
     Must I betray my friends? Ah! take me quickly,
     Secure me well before that thought's renewed;
     If I relapse once more, all's lost forever.

     _Bel._ Hast thou a friend more dear than Belvidera?

     _Jaf._ No: Thou'rt my soul itself; wealth, friendship,
     honour!
     All present joys, and earnest of all future,
     Are summed in thee. _[Going, R._

     _Enter Captain and Guards, R. S. E._

     _Capt._ Stand! who goes there?

     _Bel._ Friends.

     _Capt._ But what friends are you?

     _Bel._ Friends to the senate, and the state of Venice.

     _Capt._ My orders are, to seize on all I find
     At this late hour, and bring them to the council,
     Who are now sitting.

     _Jaf._ Sir, you shall be obeyed.
     Now the lot's cast, and, fate, do what thou wilt.

     _[Exeunt Jaffier and Belvidera, guarded._


     _Scene II.--The Senate House._

     _The Duke of Venice, Priuli, and other Senators
     discovered, sitting._

     _Duke._ Antony, Priuli, senators of Venice,
     Speak--Why are we assembled here this night?
     What have you to inform us of, concerns
     The state of Venice' honour, or its safety?

     _Priuli._ (R.) Could words express the story I've to tell you,
     Fathers, these tears were useless, these sad tears
     That fall from my old eyes; but there is cause
     We all should weep, tear off these purple robes,
     And wrap ourselves, in sackcloth, sitting down
     On the sad earth, and cry aloud to heaven:
     Heav'n knows, if yet there be an hour to come,
     Ere Venice be no more.

     _Duke._ How!

     _Priuli._ Nay, we stand
     Upon the very brink of gaping ruin.
     Within this city's formed a dark conspiracy
     To massacre us all, our wives and children,
     Kindred and friends; our palaces and temples
     To lay in ashes: nay, the hour, too, fixed;
     The swords, for aught I know, drawn ev'n this moment,
     And the wild waste begun. From unknown hands
     I had this warning: but, if we are men,
     Let's not be tamely butchered, but do something
     That may inform the world in after ages,
     Our virtue was not ruined, though we were.

     _[A noise within, L._

     _Capt._ _[Within]_ Room, room, make room there for some
     prisoners!

     _Enter Officer, L._

     _Duke._ Speak, speak, there! What disturbance?
     Officer. A prisoner have the guards seized in the street,
     Who says, he comes to inform this reverend council
     About the present danger.

     _Enter Officer, Jaffier Captain, and Guards, L._

     _All._ Give him entrance.--_[Exit Officer.]_ Well, who ate
     you?

     _Jaf._ (L.) A villain!
     Would, every man that hears me,
     Would deal so honestly, and own his title!

     _Duke._ 'Tis rumored, that a plot has been contrived
     Against the state, and you've a share in't, too.
     If you're a villain, to redeem your honour,
     Unfold the truth, and be restored with mercy.

     _Jaf._ Think not, that I to save my life came hither;
     I know its value better; but in pity
     To all those wretches, whose unhappy dooms
     Are fixed and sealed. You see me here before you,
     The sworn and covenanted foe of Venice:
     But use me as my dealings may deserve,
     And I may prove a friend.

     _Duke._ The slave capitulates;
     Give him the tortures.

     [Footnote 1: See MIRROR, vol
     3, p 194--vol 5. p 311.]
     [Footnote 2: We requote this passage from Mr.
     M'Creery, as it has already appeared in vol. 5; and in
     vol. 3, a correspondent denies that the first English
     book was printed at Westminster; but
     we are disposed to think that an impartial
     examination of the testimonies on each side
     of the controversy will decide in favour of
     Caxton.]
     * * * * *

     

     TEA.--ITS INTRODUCTION INTO ENGLAND.

     (A correspondent, who signs _M.M.M._
     informs us that the article sent to us by
     _P.T.W_. and inserted in No. 280 of the MIRROR, was
     copied verbatim from the _Imperial Magazine_,
     a work which we seldom see, and consequently
     we had no opportunity of ascertaining
     the origin of our correspondent's paper.
     It seemed to us a good _cyclopaedian_ article on the subject, and
we accordingly admitted it.

     We now subjoin _M.M.M.'

     s_ communication.)
     In addition to what has been said in the
     article upon tea, (by _P.T.W._) allow me to remark (and which I
do not recollect ever to have seen noticed in any work upon the
subject) that the seed is contained in _two_ vessels, the outer one
varying in shape, triangular, long, and round, according to the
number which it contains of what may be termed inner vessels.

     The outer vessel of a triangular shape, measures, from the base to
the apex about three quarters of an inch, and is of a dark brown
colour, approaching to black, and thick, strong, and rough in
texture; within this is another vessel, containing the kernel; this
inner vessel is of a light brown colour, thin, and brittle, in
shape, seldom perfectly round, but mostly flat on one side: there
are three of them in a triangular seed vessel, two in a long one,
and one in that which is round.

     The kernel is of a brown colour,
     and in taste very bitter. In no other
     species of teas than Bohea, is the large kind of seed found, which
is probably owing to that species being gathered last or in autumn.

     There is a _small_ seed found mixed with the Congou kind of teas,
about the size of a pea, which is in every respect similar to the
large, except in size.

     This seed was evidently not permitted to ripen, but the calyx of
the flower connected with the peduncle is quite perfect.

     The Twankey species are of the same appearance, all of which
     I have had ample opportunity of inspecting.

     As an appendage to this
     note, we are induced to quote the following pleasant page from
_Time's Telescope_ for 1828; and we take this opportunity of reminding
our readers that our customary Supplementary sheet, containing the
spirit of this and other popular Annual Works will be published
with our next Number.

     From a single sheet found in Sir Hans Sloane's library,
     in the British Museum, and printed by Mr. Ellis
     in his Original Letters, _Second
     Series_, it appears that tea was known in England
     in the year 1657, though not then in
     general use. The author of this paper says, "That
     the vertues and excellencies of this leaf and drink are many and
great, is evident and manifest by the high esteem and use of it
(especially of late years) among the physicians and knowing men in
France, Italy, Holland, and other parts of Christendom; _and in_
ENGLAND it hath been sold in the leaf for _six pounds_, and sometimes
for TEN _pounds_ the pound weight, and in respect of its former
scarceness and dearness, it hath been only used as a regalia in
high treatments and entertainments, and presents made thereof to
princes and grandees, till the year 1657."

     Secretary Pepys, in his Diary,
     vol. i. p. 76, without saying where he had his drink, makes the
following entry:--"Sept. 25th, 1660.

     I did send for a cup of tea (a China drink) of which I never had
drunk before, and went away."

     In a letter from Mr. Henry Savill to his
     uncle, Secretary Coventry, dated from Paris, Aug. 12,
     1678, and printed by Mr. Ellis, the writer, after
     acknowledging the hospitalities of his uncle's
     house, quaintly observes, "These, I hope, are the charms that have
prevailed with me to remember (that is to trouble) you oftener than
I am apt to do other of my friends, whose buttery-hatch is not so
open, _and who call for_ TEA instead of pipes and bottles after
dinner; _a base unworthy Indian practice_, and which I must ever
admire your most Christian family for not admitting.

     The truth is, all nations have grown so wicked as to have some of
these filthy customs."

     In 1678, the year in which the above letter is dated,
     the East India Company began the importation of tea as a branch
of trade; the quantity received at that time amounting to 4,713 lbs.

     The importation
     gradually
     enlarged, and the government, in consequence, augmented the duties
upon tea.

     By the year 1700, the importation of tea had arrived at the quantity
of 20,000 lbs.

     In 1721, it exceeded a million of
     pounds. In 1816, it had arrived at
     86,234,380 lbs. Something more than thirty millions
     of pounds is probably the present average of importation: some
allowance must be made for tea damaged and spoiled upon the passage

     .
     The curse of growing factions, and divisions,
     Still vex your councils, shake your public safety,
     And make the robes of government you wear
     Hateful to you, as these base chains to me!

     _Duke._ Pardon, or death?

     _Pierre._ Death! honourable death!

     _Ren._ (L.) Death's the best thing we ask, or you can
     give.

     _Duke._ Break up the council. Captain, guard your prisoners.
     Jaffier, you're free; but these must wait for judgment.

     _[Exeunt Duke, Senators, Conspirators, and Officer._

     _Pierre._ (C.) Come, where's my dungeon? Lead me to
     my straw:
     It will not be the first time I've lodged hard,
     To do your senate service.

     _Jaf._ (R. C.) Hold, one moment.

     _Pierre._ Who's he disputes the judgment of the senate?
     Presumptuous rebel!--on-- _[Strikes Jaffier_

     _Jaf._ (C.) By Heaven, you stir not!

     _[Exeunt Captain and Guards, R._

     I must be heard! I must have leave to speak.
     Thou hast disgraced me. Pierre, by a vile blow:
     Had not a dagger done thee nobler justice I
     But use me as thou wilt, thou can'st not wrong me,
     For I am fallen beneath the basest injuries;
     Yet look upon me with an eye of mercy,
     And, as there dwells a godlike nature in thee,
     Listen with mildness to my supplications.

     _Pierre._ (R. C.) What whining monk art thou? what
     holy cheat,
     That would'st encroach upon my credulous ears,
     And cant'st thus vilely! Hence! I know thee not!

     _Jaf._ Not know me, Pierre!

     _Pierre._ No, know thee not. What art thou?

     _Jaf._ Jaffier, thy friend, thy once loved, valued friend!
     Tho' now deservedly scorned, and used most hardly.

     _Pierre._ Thou, Jaffier! thou, my once-loved, valued
     friend!
     By heavens, thou ly'st; the man so called my friend,
     Was generous, honest, faithful, just, and valiant;
     Noble in mind, and in his person lovely;
     Dear to my eyes, and tender to my heart:
     But, thou, a wretched, base, false, worthless coward,
     Poor, even in soul, and loathsome in thy aspect:
     All eyes must shun thee, and all hearts detest thee.
     Pr'ythee, avoid, nor longer cling thus round me,
     Like something baneful, that my nature's chilled at.

     _Jaf._ I have not wronged thee; by these tears I have
     not!

     _Pierre._ Hast thou not wronged me I Dar'st thou call
     thyself
     That once-loved, honest, valued friend of mine,
     And swear thou hast not wronged me? Whence these
     chains?
     Whence the vile death which I may meet this moment?
     Whence this dishonour, but from thee, thou false one?

     _Jaf._ All's true; yet grant one thing, and I've done asking.

     _Pierre._ What's that?

     _Jaf._ To take thy life, on such conditions
     The council have proposed: thou, and thy friends,
     May yet live long, and to be better treated.

     _Pierre._ Life! ask my life! confess! record myself
     A villain, for the privilege to breathe,
     And carry up and down this cursed city,
     A discontented and repining spirit,
     Burdensome to itself, a few years longer!
     To lose it, may be, at last, in a lewd quarrel
     For some new friend, treacherous and false as thou Art?
     No, this vile world and I have long been jangling,
     And cannot part on better terms than now,
     When only men like thee art fit to live in't.

     _Jaf._ By all that's just--

     _Pierre._ Swear by some other power,
     For thou hast broke that sacred oath too lately.

     _Jaf._ Then by that hell I merit, I'll not leave thee
     Till, to thyself at least, thou'rt reconciled,
     However thy resentments deal with me.

     _Pierre._ Not leave me!

     _Jaf._ No; thou shalt not force me from thee;
     Use me reproachfully, and like a slave;
     Tread on me, buffet me, heap wrongs on wrongs
     On my poor head; I'll bear it all with patience.
     Shall weary out thy most unfriendly cruelty:
     Lie at thy feet, _[Falls on his knees,]_ and kiss them tho
     they spurn me;
     Till, wounded by my sufferings, thou relent,
     And raise me to thy arms with dear forgiveness.

     _Pierre._ Art thou not--

     _Jaf._ What?

     _Pierre._ A traitor?

     _Jaf._ Yes.

     _Pierre._ A villain?

     _Jaf._ Granted.

     _Pierre._ A coward, a most scandalous coward;
     Spiritless, void of honour; one who has sold
     Thy everlasting fame, for shameless life?

     _Jaf._ _[Rising and turning, R.]_ All, all, and more, much
     more; my faults are numberless.

     _Pierre._ And would'st thou have me live on terms like
     thine?
     Base, as thou'rt false--

     _Jaf._ _[Returning.]_ No; 'tis to me that's granted;
     The safety of thy life was all I aimed at,
     In recompence for faith and trust so broken.

     _Pierre._ I scorn it more, because preserved by thee;
     And, as when first my foolish heart took pity
     On thy misfortunes, sought thee in thy miseries,
     Relieved thy wants, and raised thee from the state
     Of wretchedness, in which thy fate had plunged thee,
     To rank thee in my list of noble friends;
     All I received in surety for thy truth,
     Were unregarded oaths, and this, this dagger,
     Given with a worthless pledge, thou since hast stol'n:
     So I restore it back to thee again;
     Swearing by all those powers which thou hast violated,
     Never from this cursed hour, to hold communion,
     Friendship, or interest, with thee, though our years
     Were to exceed those limited the world.
     Take it--farewell--for now I owe thee nothing.

     _Jaf._ Say thou wilt live, then.

     _Pierre._ For my life, dispose it
     Just as thou wilt, because 'tis what I'm tired with.

     _Jaf._ Oh, Pierre!

     _Pierre._ No more. _[Going, R._

     _Jaf._ My eyes won't lose the sight of thee, _[Following._
     But languish after thine, and ache with gazing.

     _Pierre._ Leave me--Nay, then, thus, thus I throw thee
     from me;
     And curses, great as is thy falsehood, catch thee!

     _[Drives him to C.--Exit, R_.

     _Jaf._ _[Pausing.]_ He's gone, my father, friend, preserver
     And here's the portion he has left me:
     This dagger. Well remembered! with this dagger
     I gave a solemn vow of dire importance;
     Parted with this, and Belvidera together.
     Have a care, mem'ry, drive that thought no farther.
     No, I'll esteem it as a friend's last legacy;
     Treasure it up within this wretched bosom,
     Where it may grow acquainted with my heart,
     That, when they meet, they start not from each other.
     So, now for thinking--A blow--called traitor, villain,
     Coward, dishonourable coward; faugh!
     Oh, for a long, sound sleep, and so forget it!
     Down, busy devil!

     _Enter Belvidera, L._

     _Bel._ (L.) Whither shall I fly?
     Where hide me and my miseries together?
     Where's now the Roman constancy I boasted?
     Sunk into trembling fears and desperation,
     Not daring to look up to that dear face,
     Which used to smile, even on my faults: but, down,
     Bending these miserable eyes to earth,
     Must move in penance, and implore much mercy.

     _Jaf._ (R. C.) Mercy! kind Heaven has surely endless stores
     Hoarded for thee, of blessings yet untasted:
     "Let wretches loaded hard with guilt as I am,
     "Bow with the weight, and groan beneath the burden,
     "Before the footstool of that Heav'n they've injured."
     Oh, Belvidera! I'm the wretched'st creature
     E'er crawled on earth.

     _Bel._ (L. C.) Alas! I know thy sorrows are most mighty
     _Jaf._ My friend, too, Belvidera, that dear friend,
     Who, next to thee, was all my heart rejoiced in,
     Has used me like a slave, shamefully used me:
     'Twould break thy pitying heart to hear the story.

     _Bel._ What has he done?

     _Jaf._ "Oh, my dear angel! in that friend, I've lost
     "All my soul's peace; for every thought of him
     "Strikes my sense hard, and deads it in my brain!
     "Would'st thou believe it?
     "Before we parted,"
     Ere yet his guards had led him to, his prison,
     Full of severest sorrows for his sufferings,
     As at his feet I kneeled, and sued for mercy,
     With a reproachful hand he dashed a blow:
     He struck me, Belvidera! by Heaven, he struck me
     Buffeted, called me traitor, villain, coward!
     Am I a coward? am I a villain? tell me:
     Thou'rt the best judge, and mad'st me, if I am so!
     Damnation! coward!

     _Bel._ Oh! forgive him, Jaffier!
     And, if his sufferings wound thy heart already,
     What will they do to-morrow?

     _Jaf._ Ah!

     _Bel._ To-morrow,
     When thou shalt see him stretched in all the agonies
     Of a tormenting and a shameful death;
     What will thy heart do then? Oh! sure 'twill stream,
     Like my eyes now.

     _Jaf._ What means thy dreadful story?
     Death, and to-morrow?

     _Bel._ (C.) The faithless senators, 'tis they've decreed it?
     They say, according to our friends' request,
     They shall have death, and not ignoble bondage;
     Declare their promised mercy all as forfeited:
     False to their oaths, and deaf to intercession,
     Warrants are passed for public death to-morrow.

     _Jaf._ Death! doomed to die! condemned unheard! unpleaded!

     _Bel._ Nay, cruel'st racks and torments are preparing
     To force confession from their dying pangs.
     Oh! do not look so terribly upon me!
     How your lips shake, and all your face disordered!
     What means my love?

     _Jaf._ Leave me, I charge thee, leave me! Strong temptations
     Wake in my heart.

     _Bel._ (L.) For what]

     _Jaf._ No more, but leave me.

     _Bel._ Why?

     _Jaf._ (L. C.) Oh! by Heav'n, I love thee with that fondness,
     I would not have thee stay a moment longer
     Near these cursed hands.

     _[Pulls the Dagger half out of his bosom, and puts it
     back again._

     Art thou not terrified?

     _Bel._ No.

     _Jaf._ Call to mind
     What thou hast done, and whither thou hast brought me.

     _Bel._ Ha!

     _Jaf._ Where's my friend? my friend, thou smiling mischief!
     Nay, shrink not, now 'tis too late; for dire revenge
     Is up, and raging for my friend. He groans!
     Hark, how be groans! his screams are in my ears!
     Already, see, they've fixed him on the wheel,
     And now they tear him--Murder! perjured senate!
     Murder--Oh! Hark thee, traitress, thou hast done this!
     Thanks to thy tears, and false persuading love.
     How her eyes speak! oh, thou bewitching creature!
     Madness can't hurt thee. Come, thou little trembler,
     Creep even into my heart, and there lie safe;
     'Tis thy own citadel--Hah--yet stand off, _[Going, R._
     Heav'n must have justice, and my broken vows
     Will sink me else beneath its reaching mercy.
     I'll wink, and then 'tis done--

     _Bel._ (C.) What means the lord
     Of me, my life, and love? And all are equal in
     one common nap!

     At that dread hour...

     Caetera desiderantur.

     
     
     _Carshalton_ W. P----n.
     
     * * * * *

     

     ON OATHS.

     

     (_For the Mirror_.)

     

     Since lately we have had a great deal of
     prevarication in our courts of justice
     about receiving the oaths of deists, &c., I have thought it meet
to furnish the MIRROR with an account of the first usage of the
words, "So help me God."

     The word oath is a corruption of the Saxon
     _eoth_. An oath is called corporal, because
     the person making an affidavit lays his
     hand upon a part of the scriptures.

     

     At the conclusion of the oath the above
     words are used, which may perhaps have originated
     in the very ancient manner of trial by battle
     in this country, when the appellee, laying his
     right hand on the book, takes the appellant by
     the right hand with his left, and maketh oath as
     follows:--"Hear this, thou who callest
     thyself _John_ by the name of baptism,
     whom I hold by thy hand, that falsely upon me thou
     hast lied; and for this thou liest, that I who
     call myself _Thomas_ by the name of baptism, did
     not feloniously murder thy father, _W._ by name,
     _so help me God_."

     (Here he kisses the book, and concludes,)--"And this I will defend
against thee by my body, as this court shall award."

     And the appellant is thus sworn also.

Here, it may be observed also, the true foundation of the word
_lie_, being esteemed still so great an affront above all others,
as whenever it is pronounced to cause "an immediate affray and
bloodshed."

     I have seen people sworn in poetry; and certain it is, that in many
countries in Europe the making of oaths differs.

     I have some curious specimens of ancient oaths, some in Latin prose,
others in poetry.

     Lord Chief Justice Coke was so strict with regard to the
     receiving of oaths, that when at Cambridge Summer
     Assizes, upon a trial of felony, he said,
     "in case of trespass, although it be only to the value of _twopence_,
no evidence shall be given to the jury _but upon oath_, much less
where _the life of a man is in question_."But then, my only child, my daughter wedded;
     There my best blood runs foul, and a disease
     Incurable has seized upon my memory.

     _Enter Belvidera in a Mourning Veil, L._

     _Bel._ _[Speaking as she enters.]_ He's there, my father, my
     inhuman father,
     That, for three years, has left an only child,
     Exposed to all the outrages of fate,
     And cruel ruin!--Oh!--

     _Priuli._ What child of sorrow
     Art thou, that com'st, wrapt up in weeds of sadness,
     And mov'st as if thy steps were towards a grave?

     _Bel._ (L. C.) A wretch, who, from the very top of happiness,
     Am fallen into the lowest depths of misery,
     And want your pitying hand to raise me up again.

     _Priuli._ (R. C.) What wouldst thou beg for?

     _Bel._ Pity and forgiveness. _[Throws up her Veil._
     By the kind, tender names of child and father,
     Hear my complaints, and take me to your love. _[Kneels._

     _Priuli._ My daughter!

     _Bel._ Yes, your daughter; and you've oft told me,
     With smiles of love, and chaste paternal kisses,
     I'd much resemblance of my mother.

     _Priuli._ Don't talk thus.

     _Bel._ Yes, I must: and you must hear, too.
     I have a husband.

     _Priuli._ Damn him!

     _Bel._ Oh, do not curse him!
     He would not speak so hard a word towards you,
     On any terms, howe'er he deal with me.

     _Priuli._ Ah! In what manner can he supplicate that omnipotent Being in his
affliction with reverence, whom in the tide of his prosperity he
never remembered with dread!

     Don't brand me with infidelity, my dear
     doctor, when I tell you I am almost ashamed
     to offer up my petitions at the throne of grace, or of imploring
that divine mercy in the next world, which I have so scandalously
abused in this!

     Shall ingratitude to man be looked upon as the blackest of crimes,
and not ingratitude to God?

     
     Great love prevailed, and blessed me with success!
     He came, confessed, betrayed his dearest friends,
     For promised mercy. Now, they're doomed to suffer!
     Galled with remembrance of what then was sworn,
     If they are lost, he vows t' appease the gods
     With this poor life, and make my blood th' atonement.

     _Priuli._ Heavens!

     _Bel._ If I was ever then your care, now hear me!
     Fly to the senate, save the promised lives
     Of his dear friends, ere mine be made the sacrifice.

     _Priuli._ Oh, my heart's comfort!

     _Bel._ Will you not, my father?
     Weep not, but answer me.

     _Priuli._ By Heav'n, I will!
     Not one of them but what shall be immortal!
     Canst thou forgive me all my follies past?
     I'll henceforth be indeed a father! never,
     Never more, thus expose, but cherish thee,
     Dear as the vital warmth that feeds my life:
     Dear as these eyes, that weep in fondness o'er thee:
     Peace to thy heart. Farewell!

     _Bel._ Go, and remember,
     'Tis Belvidera's life her father pleads for!

     _[Exeunt Priuli, R., Belvidera, L._


     _Scene II.--The Rialto._

     _Enter Captain--Muffled Drums--Guards--Executioner
     with Axe--Renault--Spinosa---Elliot--Theodore--
     Durand--Mezzana--Pierre--Officer--Guards--
     They all pass over the Stage, R. to L., and exeunt._


     _Scene III.--A Street._

     _Enter Jaffier, R._

     _Jaf._ Final destruction seize on all the world!
     Bend down, ye Heav'ns, and, shutting round this earth
     Crush the vile globe into its first confusion!

     _Enter Belvidera, L._

     _Bel._ (C.) My life!--

     _Jaf._ (R. C.) My plague!--

     _Bel._ Ney, then, I see my ruin.
     If I must die!

     _Jaf._ (C.) No, death's this day too busy;
     Thy father's ill-timed mercy came too late.
     ( thank thee for thy labours, though; and him too,
     But all my poor, betrayed, unhappy friends,
     Have summons to prepare for fate's black hour.
     Yet, Belvidera, do not fear my cruelty,
     Nor let the the thoughts of death perplex thy fancy:
     But answer me to what I shall demand,
     With a firm temper and unshaken spirit.

     _Bel._ (L. C.) I will, when I've done weeping--

     _Jaf._ Fie, no more on't!
     How long is't since the miserable day
     We wedded first?

     _Bel._ Oh! oh!

     _Jaf._ Nay, keep in thy tears,
     Lest they unman me quite.

     _Bel._ Heaven knows I cannot!
     The words you utter sound so very sadly,
     The streams will follow--

     _Jaf._ Come, I'll kiss them dry, then.

     _Bel._ _[Hanging on him.]_ But was't a miserable day?

     _Jaf._ A cursed one!

     _Bel._ I thought it otherwise, and you've often sworn,
     When sure you spoke the truth, you've sworn you blessed
     it.

     _Jaf._ 'Twas a rash oath.

     _Bel._ Then why am I not cursed, too?

     _Jaf._ No, Belvidera; by th' eternal truth,
     I dote with too much fondness.

     _Bel._ Still so kind!
     Still then do you love me!

     _Jaf._ Man ne'er was blessed,
     Since the first pair first met, as I have been.

     _Bel._ Then sure you will not curse me?

     _Jaf._ No, I'll bless thee.
     I came on purpose, Belvidera, to bless thee.
     'Tis now, I think, three years we've lived together.

     _Bel._ And may no fatal minute ever part us,
     Till, reverend grown, for age and love, we go
     Down to one grave, as our last bed together;
     There sleep in peace till an eternal morning.

     _Jaf._ Did I not say I came to bless thee?

     _Bel._ You did. _[Part._

     _Jaf._ Then hear me, bounteous Heaven! With an outline of the life of CAXTON our readers must be already
familiar; but we wish them to consider the above accurate representation
of the FIRST ENGLISH PRINTER'S RESIDENCE as antecedent to a _Memoir
of Caxton_, in which it will be our aim to concentrate, in addition
to biographical details, many important facts from the testimony
of antiquarians; for scarcely a volume of the _Archaeologia_ has
appeared without some valuable communication on Caxton and his
times.

     In the meantime we proceed with the _locale_ of
     Caxton's house, situate on the south-west of
     Westminster Abbey, where was formerly the
     eleemosynary, or almonry, where the alms of
     the abbots were distributed. Howell in his
     _Londinopolis_, describes this as "the spot where
     the abbot of Westminster permitted Caxton to set
     up his press in the _Almonry_, or Ambry," the
     former of which names is still retained.
     This is confirmed by Newcourt, in his _Repertorium_, who says, "St.

     Anne's, an old chapel, over against which the Lady Margaret, mother
to king Henry VII., erected an alms-house for poor women, which is
now turned into lodgings for singing-men of the college.

     The place wherein this chapel
     and alms-house stood was called the
     Eleemosinary, or Almonry, now corruptly called the
     Ambry, (Aumbry,) for that the alms of the abbey were there distributed
to the poor; in which the abbot of Westminster erected the first
press for book-printing that was in England, about the year of
Christ 1471, and where WILLIAM CAXTON, citizen and mercer of London,
who first brought it into England, practised it."

     Here he printed _The
     Game and Play of the Chesse_, said to be the first book that issued
from the press in this country.

     Hence, according to Mr.

     M'Creery, the intelligent author of "The Press," a
     poem, "the title of _chapel_ to the internal regulations of a
printing-office originated in Caxton's exercising the profession
in one of the chapels in Westminster Abbey, and may be considered
as an additional proof, from the antiquity of the custom, of his
being the first English printer

     ."[2]
     Every lover of science, on approaching this spot, will feel himself
on holy ground, however the idle and incurious of our metropolis
may neglect the scite, or be ignorant of its identity.

     We are there led into an eternity of reflection and association of
ideas; but lest human pride should be too fondly feasted in the
retrospect, the hallowed towers of the abbey, seen in the distance,
serve to remind us of the imperial maxim, that "art is long, and
life but short."

     
     How I could bleed, how burn, how drown, the waves
     Huzzing and foaming round my sinking head,
     'Till I descended to the peaceful bottom!
     Oh! there's all quiet--here, all rage and fury!
     The air's too thin, and pierces my weak brain;
     I long for thick substantial sleep: (R. C.) Hell! hell!
     Burst from the centre, (R.) rage and roar aloud,
     If thou art half so hot, so mad as I am! _[Exit, R._


     _Scene IV.--St. Mark's Place,--A Scaffold in the back
     ground, and a Wheel, prepared for the Execution of
     Pierre._

     _Enter Captain, Pierre, Guard, Executioner, and Rabble._

     _Pierre._ (L.) My friend not yet come?

     _Enter Jaffier, r._

     _Jaf._ Oh, Pierre! _[Falling on his knees._

     _Pierre._ (C.) Dear to my arms, though thou'st undone
     my fame,
     I can't forget to love thee. Pr'ythee, Jaffier,
     Forgive that filthy blow, my passion dealt thee:
     I'm now preparing for the land of peace
     And fain would have the charitable wishes
     Of all good men like thee, to bless my journey.

     _Jaf._ Good! I'm the vilest creature--worse than e'er
     Suffered the shameful fate thou'rt going to taste of.

     _Capt._ (R.) The time grows short; your friends are dead
     already.

     _Jaf._ (L. C.)Dead!

     _Pierre._ Yes, dead, Jaffier! they've all died like men,
     too,
     Worthy their character.

     _Jaf._ And what must I do?

     _Pierre._ Oh, Jaffier!

     _Jaf._ Speak aloud thy burdened soul,
     And tell thy troubles to thy tortured friend.

     _Pierre._ Friend! Couldst thou yet be a friend,
     a generous friend,
     I might hope comfort from thy noble sorrows.
     Heaven knows, I want a friend!

     _Jaf._ And I a kind one,
     That would not scorn thus my repenting virtue,
     Or think, when he's to die, my thoughts are idle.

     _Pierre._ No! live, I charge thee, Jaffier.

     _Jaf._ Yes, I will live:
     But it shall be to see thy fall revenged,
     At such a rate, as Venice long shall groan for

     _Pierre._ Wilt thou?

     _Jaf._ I will, by Heaven!

     _Pierre._ Then still thou'rt noble,
     And I forgive thee. Oh!--yet--shall I trust thee?

     _Jaf._ No; I've been false already.

     Shall an insult offered to the king be looked upon in the most
offensive light, and yet no notice be taken when the King of kings
is treated with indignity and disrespect.

     The companions of my former libertinism would scarcely believe their
eyes, my dear doctor, was you to show them this epistle.

     They would laugh at me as a dreaming enthusiast, or pity me as a
timorous wretch who was shocked at the appearance of futurity.

     But whoever laughs at me for being
     right, or pities me for being sensible
     of my errors, is more entitled to my compassion
     than my resentment.

     A future life may very well strike terror into any man who has not
acted well in this life; and he must have an uncommon share of
courage indeed who does not shrink at the presence of his God.

     You see, my dear doctor, the apprehension of death will soon bring
the most profligate to a proper use of their understanding.

     To what a situation am I now reduced? Is this odious little hut
     a suitable lodging for a prince? or is this anxiety of my
     mind becoming the characteristic of a Christian?

     From my rank and fortune I might have expected affluence to wait
on my life, from my religion and understanding, peace to smile upon
my end; instead of which I am afflicted with poverty, and haunted
with remorse, despised by my country, and I fear forsaken by my God!

     There is nothing so dangerous, my dear doctor, as extraordinary
abilities.

     I cannot be accused of vanity now, by being sensible I was once
possessed of uncommon qualifications, more especially as I sincerely
regret that I was ever blest with any at all.

     
     _[Stabs himself._

     _Pierre._ Now, now--thou hast indeed been faithful!
     This was done nobly!--We've deceived the senate.

     _Jaf._ Bravely!

     _Pierre._ Ha! ha! ha!--oh! oh!

     _[Falls down on the Scaffold and dies_

     _Jaf._ Now, ye cursed rulers,
     Thus of the blood ye've shed, I make libation,
     And sprinkle it mingling. May it rest upon you.
     And all your race! Oh, poor Belvidera!
     Sir, I've a wife; bear this in safety to her,
     A token that, with my dying breath, I blessed her.
     And the dear little infant left behind me.
     I'm sick--I'm quiet. _[Dies.--The Scene shuts upon them._


     _Scene V.--An apartment in Priuli s House._

     _Enter Priuli, R.; Belvidera, distracted; and two of her
     Women._

     _Priuli._ (L. C.) Strengthen her heart with patience,
     pitying Heav'n!

     _Bel._ (C.) Come, come, come, come, come; nay, come to bed,
     Pr'ythee, my love. The winds! hark how they whistle!
     And the rain beats! Oh, how the weather shrinks me!
     I say you shall not go, indeed you shall not:
     Whip your ill-nature; get you gone, then; Oh!
     Are you returned? See, father, here he's come again!
     Am I to blame to love him? Oh, thou dear one!
     Why do you fly me? Are you angry still, then?
     _Jaf._ier, where art thou? Father, why do you do thus?
     Stand off! don't hide him from me! He's there somewhere.
     Stand off, I say! What, gone? Remember, tyrant
     I may revenge myself for this trick, one day.

     _Enter Captain of the Guard, L., and whispers Priuli._

     _Priuli._ News! what news?

     _Capt._ (L.) Most sad, sir!
     Jaffier, upon the scaffold, to prevent
     A shameful death, stabbed Pierre, and next himself;
     Both fell together.

     _Bel._ (R.) Ha! look there!
     My husband bloody, and his friend, too! Murder!
     Who has done this? Speak to me, thou sad vision;
     On these poor trembling knees, I beg it. Vanished:--
     Here they went down. (R. C.)--Oh, I'll dig, dig the den up!
     Hoa, Jaffier, Jaffier!
     Peep up, and give me but a look. I have him!
     I have got him, father! Oh!
     My love! my dear! my blessing! help me! help me!
     They have hold of me, and drag me to the bottom!
     Nay--now they pull so hard--farewell-- _[Dies._

     _Priuli._ [Bending over her ] Oh! lead me to some place
     "that's fit for mourning;
     "Where the free air, light, and the cheerful sun,
     "May never enter; hang it round with black,
     "Set up one taper that may last a day,
     "As long as I've to live; and there all leave me:
     "Sparing no tears when you this tale relate,
     "But bid all cruel fathers dread my fate." _[Exeunt omnes._