Servants that are truly godly they care not how cheap they serve
their masters, provided they may get into godly families, or where
they may be convenient for the word. But now, if a master or mistress
should take this opportunity to make a prey of their servants, this
is abominable, this is making a gain of godliness, and merchandise
of the things of God, and of the soul of thy brother (1 Tim 6:5).

I have heard some poor servants say, That in some carnal families
they have had more liberty to God's things, and more fairness of
dealing, than among professors. But this stinketh. And as Jacob
said concerning the cruelty of his two sons, so may I say of such
masters, they make religion stink before the inhabitants of the
land (Gen 34:30).

In a word, learn of the Lord Jesus to carry yourselves well to
your servants, that your servants also may learn something of the
kindness of Christ by your deportment to them. Servants are goers
as well as comers; take heed that thou give them no occasion to
scandal the gospel when they are gone, for what they observed thee
unrighteously to do when they were with thee. Then masters carry
it rightly toward their servants, when they labour both in word
and life to convince them that the things of God are the one thing
necessary. That which servants are commanded to do, touching their
fear, their singleness of heart, their doing what they do as to
the Lord, and not to men; the master is commanded to do the same
things unto them. (Eph 6:6-9).

THE DUTY OF WIVES. But passing the master of the family, I shall
speak a word or two to those that are under him.

And, first, to the wife: The wife is bound by the law to her husband,
so long as her husband liveth (Rom 7:2). Wherefore she also hath
her work and place in the family, as well as the rest.

Now there are these things considerable in the carriage of a wife
toward her husband, which she ought conscientiously to observe.

First, That she look upon him as her head and lord. 'The head of
the woman is the man' (1 Cor 11:3). And so Sarah called Abraham
lord (1 Peter 3:6).

Second, She should therefore be subject to him, as is fit in the
Lord. The apostle saith, 'That the wife should submit herself to
her husband, as to the Lord' 12 (1 Peter 3:1; Col 3:18; Eph 5:22).
I told you before, that if the husband doth walk towards his wife
as becomes him, he will therein be such an ordinance of God to
her, besides the relation of a husband, that shall preach to her
the carriage of Christ to his church. And now I say also, that the
wife, if she walk with her husband as becomes her, she shall preach
the obedience of the church to her husband. 'Therefore as the church
is subject unto Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands
in everything' (Eph 5:24). Now for thy performing of this work,
thou must first shun these evils.

1. The evil of a wandering and a gossiping spirit; this is evil
in the church, and is evil also in a wife, who is the figure of a
church. Christ loveth to have his spouse keep at home; that is, to
be with him in the faith and practice of his things, not ranging
and meddling with the things of Satan; no more should wives be given
to wander and gossip abroad. You know that Proverbs 7:11 saith,
'She is loud and stubborn; her feet abide not in her house.' Wives
should be about their own husbands' business at home; as the
apostle saith, Let them 'be discreet, chaste, keepers at home,
good, obedient to their own husbands.' And why? Because otherwise
'the word of God will be blasphemed' (Titus 2:5).

2. Take heed of an idle, talking, or brangling tongue. This also is
odious, either in maids or wives, to be like parrots, not bridling
their tongue; whereas the wife should know, as I said before,
that her husband is her lord, and is over her, as Christ is over
the church. Do you think it is seemly for the church to parrot it
against her husband? Is she not to be silent before him, and to
look to his laws, rather than her own fictions? Why so, saith the
apostle, ought the wife to carry it towards her husband? 'Let the
woman,' saith Paul, 'learn in silence with all subjection. But I
suffer not a woman to teach, nor to usurp authority over the man,
but to be in silence' (1 Tim 2:11, 12). It is an unseemly thing
to see a woman so much as once in all her lifetime to offer to
overtop her husband; she ought in everything to be in subjection
to him, and to do all she doth, as having her warrant, licence, and
authority from him. And indeed here is her glory, even to be under
him, as the church is under Christ: Now 'she openeth her mouth with
wisdom, and in her tongue is the law of kindness' (Prov 31:26).

3. Take heed of affecting immodest apparel, or a wanton gait; this
will be evil both abroad and at home; abroad, it will not only give
ill example, but also tend to tempt to lust and lasciviousness;
and at home it will give an offence to a godly husband, and be
cankering to ungodly children, &c. Wherefore, as saith the apostle,
Let women's apparel be modest, as becometh women professing
godliness, with good works, 'not with broidered hair, or gold, or
pearls, or costly array' (1 Tim 2:9, 10). And as it is said again,
'Whose adorning, let it not be that outward adorning of plaiting
the hair, and of wearing of gold, or of putting on of apparel:
But let it be the hidden man of the heart, in that which is not
corruptible, even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which is
in the sight of God of great price. For after this manner in the old
time the holy women also, who trusted in God, adorned themselves,
being in subjection unto their own husbands' (1 Peter 3:3-5).

But yet, do not think that by the subjection I have here mentioned,
that I do intend women should be their husbands' slaves. Women are
their husbands' yokefellows, their flesh and their bones; and he
is not a man that hateth his own flesh, or that is bitter against
it (Eph 5:29). Wherefore, let every man 'love his wife even
as himself; and the wife see that she reverence her husband' (Eph
5:33). The wife is master next her husband, and is to rule all in
his absence; 13 yea, in his presence she is to guide the house,
to bring up the children, provided she so do it, as the adversary
have no occasion to speak reproachfully (1 Tim 5:10, 13). 'Who can
find a virtuous woman? for her price is far above rubies. A gracious
woman retaineth honour:' and guideth her affairs with discretion
(Prov 31:10; 11:16; 12:4).

Object.

But my husband is an unbeliever; what shall I do?

Answer.

If so, then what I have said before lieth upon thee with an engagement
so much the stronger. For, 1. Thy husband being in this condition,
he will be watchful to take thy slips and infirmities, to throw them
as dirt in the face of God and thy Saviour. 2. He will be apt to
make the worst of every one of thy words, carriages, and gestures.
3. And all this doth tend to the possessing his heart with more
hardness, prejudice, and opposition to his own salvation; wherefore,
as Peter saith, 'ye wives, be in subjection to your husbands;
that, if any obey not the word, they may also without the word be
won by the conversation of the wives; while they behold your chaste
conversation, coupled with fear' (1 Peter 3:1, 2). Thy husband's
salvation or damnation lieth much in thy deportment and behaviour
before him; wherefore, if there be in thee any fear of God, or
love to thy husband, seek, by a carriage full of meekness, modesty,
and holiness, and a humble behaviour before him, to win him to the
love of his own salvation; and by thus doing, how 'knowest thou,
O wife, whether thou shalt save thy husband?' (1 Cor 7:16).

Object.

But my husband is not only an unbeliever, but one very froward,
peevish, and testy, yea, so froward, &c., that I know not how to
speak to him, or behave myself before him.

Answer.

Indeed there are some wives in great slavery by reason of their
ungodly husbands; and as such should be pitied, and prayed for;
so they should be so much the more watchful and circumspect in all
their ways.

1. Therefore be thou very faithful to him in all the things of this
life.

2. Bear with patience his unruly and unconverted behaviour; thou
art alive, he is dead; thou art principled with grace, he with
sin. Now, then, seeing grace is stronger than sin, and virtue than
vice; be not overcome with his vileness, but overcome that with thy
virtues (Rom 12:21). It is a shame for those that are gracious to
be as lavishing in their words, &c., as those that are graceless:
They that are 'slow to wrath are of great understanding; but they
that are hasty of spirit, exalteth folly' (Prov 14:29).

3. Thy wisdom, therefore, if at any time thou hast a desire to speak
to thy husband for his conviction, concerning anything, either good
or evil, it is to observe convenient times and seasons: There is
'a time to keep silence, and a time to speak' (Eccl 3:7). Now for
the right timing thy intentions,

(1.) Consider his disposition; and take him when he is farthest off
of those filthy passions that are thy afflictions. Abigail would
not speak a word to her churlish husband till his wine was gone
from him, and he in a sober temper (1 Sam 25:36, 37). The want of
this observation is the cause why so much is spoken, and so little
effected. 14

(2.) Take him at those times when he hath his heart taken with
thee, and when he showeth tokens of love and delight in thee. Thus
did Esther with the king her husband, and prevailed (Ester 5:3, 6;
7:1, 2).

(3.) Observe when convictions seize his conscience, and then follow
them with sound and grave sayings of the Scriptures. Somewhat like
to this dealt Manoah's wife with her husband (Judg 13:22, 23). Yet
then,

(a) Let thy words be few.

(b) And none of them savouring of a lording it over him; but speak
thou still as to thy head and lord, by way of entreaty and beseeching.

(c) And that in such a spirit of sympathy, and bowels of affection
after his good, that the manner of thy speech and behaviour in
speaking may be to him an argument that thou speakest in love, as
being sensible of his misery, and inflamed in thy soul with desire
after his conversion.

(d) And follow thy words and behaviour with prayers to God for his
soul.

(e) Still keeping thyself in a holy, chaste, and modest behaviour
before him.

Object.

But my husband is a sot, a fool, and one that hath not wit enough
to follow his outward employment in the world.

Answer.

1. Though all this be true, yet thou must know he is thy head, thy
lord, and thy husband.

2. Therefore thou must take heed of desiring to usurp authority over
him. He was not made for thee; that is, for thee to have dominion
over him, but to be thy husband, and to rule over thee (1 Tim 2:12;
1 Cor 11:3, 8).

3. Wherefore, though in truth thou mayest have more discretion than
he, yet thou oughtest to know that thou, with all that is thine,
is to be used as under thy husband; even 'every thing' (Eph 5:24).
Take heed therefore, that what thou dost goes not in thy name, but
his; not to thy exaltation, but his; carrying all things so, by thy
dexterity and prudence, that not one of thy husband's weaknesses
be discovered to others by thee: 'A virtuous woman is a crown to
her husband: but she that maketh ashamed, is as rottenness in his
bones.' For then, as the wise man sayeth, 'she will do him good
and not evil, all the days of her life' (Prov 12:4; 31:12).

4. Therefore act, and do still, as being under the power and
authority of thy husband.

Now touching thy carriage to thy children and servants. Thou art
a parent, and a mistress, and so thou oughtest to demean thyself.
And besides, seeing the believing woman is a figure of the church,
she ought, as the church, to nourish and instruct her children,
and servants, as the church, that she may answer in that particular
also; and truly, the wife being always at home, she hath great
advantage that way; wherefore do it, and the Lord prosper your
proceeding.

DUTIES OF CHILDREN TO PARENTS.

There lieth also a duty upon children to their parents, which
they are bound both by the law of God and nature conscientiously
to observe: 'Children, obey your parents in the Lord: for this is
right.' And again, 'Children, obey your parents in all things; for
this is well pleasing unto the Lord' (Eph 6:1; Col 3:20).

There are these general things in which children should show forth
that honour that is due to their parents from them.

First, They should always count them better than themselves. I
observe a vile spirit among some children, and that is, they are
apt to look over their parents, and to have slighting and scornful
thoughts of them. This is worse than heathenish; such an one hath
got just the heart of a dog or a beast, that will bite those that
begot them, and her that brought them forth.

Object.

But my father, &c., is now poor, and I am rich, and it will be a
disparagement, or at least a hinderance to me, to show that respect
to him as otherwise I might.

Answer.

I tell thee thou arguest like an atheist and a beast, and standest
in this full flat against the Son of God (Mark 7:9-13). Must a
gift, and a little of the glory of the butterfly, make thee that
thou shalt not do for, and honour to, thy father and mother? 'A wise
son maketh a glad father: but a foolish man despiseth his mother'
(Prov 15:20). Though thy parents be never so low, and thou thyself
never so high, yet he is thy father, and she thy mother, and they
must be in thy eye in great esteem: 'The eye that mocketh at his
father, and despiseth to obey his mother, the ravens of the valley
shall pick it out, and the young eagles shall eat it' (Prov 30:17).

Second, Thou oughtest to show thy honour to thy parents, by a
willingness to help them with such necessaries and accommodations
which they need. 'If anyhave children or nephews, let them learn to
show piety 15 at home, and to requite their parents:' saith Paul,
'for that is good and acceptable before God' (1 Tim 5:4). And this
rule Joseph observed to his poor father, though he himself was next
the king in Egypt (Gen 47:12; 41:39-44).

But mark, let them 'requite their parents.' There are three things
for which, as long as thou livest, thou wilt be a debtor to thy
parents.

1. For thy being in this world. They are they from whom, immediately
under God, thou didst receive it.

2. For their care to preserve thee when thou wast helpless, and
couldst neither care for, nor regard thyself.

3. For the pains they have taken with thee to bring thee up. Until
thou hast children of thy own, thou wilt not be sensible of the
pains, watchings, fears, sorrow, and affliction, that they have
gone under to bring thee up; and when thou knowest it, thou wilt
not easily yield that thou has recompensed them for thy favour to
thee. How often have they sustained [thee in] thy hunger, clothed
thy nakedness? What care have they taken that thou mightest have
wherewith to live and do well when they were dead and gone? They
possibly have spared it from their own belly and back for thee, and
have also impoverished themselves, that thou mightest live like a
man. 16 All these things ought duly, and like a man, to be considered
by thee; and care ought to be taken on thy part to requite them.
The Scripture saith so, reason saith so, and there be none but dogs
and beasts that deny it. It is the duty of parents to lay up for
their children; and the duty of children to requite their parents.

