"Oh, Sunny Boy!" Mrs. Horton surveyed him half laughingly, half with
despair. "You musn't call her Adele. Say Mrs. Kennedy. You never call
Mother's friends by their first names, you know you don't."

"Well, I don't know her," offered Sunny Boy mildly, as though that
made a difference.

They took a bus, which never lost its charm for Sunny, and after a
rather long ride, got out at a cross street and walked until they
reached a narrow, five-storied brick house with gay window boxes at
every window. A maid opened the door for them and showed them into a
pleasant, rather small room where a little girl sat at the grand
piano, practicing.

She glanced up shyly as Mrs. Horton and Sunny Boy came in.

"I'm sure I know who you are," smiled Mrs. Horton. "You must be
Alice."

The little girl got up and made a pretty curtsy.

"I'm Alice Kennedy," she said, smiling too. "Are you Mother's friend,
Mrs. Horton? Is he your little boy?"

Mrs. Kennedy came in as Mrs. Jo said to him, "Why dost thou scratch?"
He answered with a shout of fatuous content, "I have lice, I
have lice," and scratched once more.

The disinfector was working overtime, clothes were poured upon us
from all the other hospitals.Kennedy,
when every one knew every one else, "and the children shall take Sunny
Boy up to their playroom on the top floor."

"We brought a little candy," explained Mrs. Horton, giving Sunny Boy
the box. "Are you willing to have it passed?"

Mrs. Kennedy was, so each of the children had three pieces and climbed
the stairs to the playroom chattering like old friends.

"Have you been to the ac-quarium?" asked Paul, pronouncing it as if it
were two words. He was rocking Sunny Boy on his rocking horse, which
was as large as a small pony and had real hair in its mane and tail.

"Got one at home," announced Sunny Boy contentedly. "There were ten
goldfish but one died."

"Oh, Paul means the real aquarium," explained Alice. "Down at the
Battery, with the queerest fish you ever saw, and big tanks, and
corals, and everything."

No, Sunny Boy hadn't seen that. He was so much interested in Alice's
descriptions that when the two mothers came up to see what they were
doing, they found them still talking about the fish.

"Hasn't Sunny Boy been down to the Battery?" asked Mrs. Kennedy. "Why,
we must all go. How about to-morrow?"

Mrs. Horton explained that she had planned to go to the Statue of
Liberty the following day.

"You can do that easily in the afternoon," said Mrs. Kennedy. "We
might as well make a day of it. I have to get the children ready for
school, and one day is all I can spare. Suppose we meet at the Battery
in the morning and see the aquarium. We'll have lunch somewhere and
take the boat right from the Battery for Bedloe's Island."

So it was arranged that they should meet the next morning, and Sunny
Boy and Mother went back to the hotel to tell Daddy all about their
plans and to hear about his busy day.

As soon as Sunny Boy and Mother entered the park at the Battery the
following morning, the glint of water in the sun attracted him.

"Why is it the Battery?" he asked. "Are there guns?"

"There used to be," said Mother. "Long ago, when instead of a park,
this end of New York was high rocks, a water battery guarded the town
and was used a little in the Revolution. That is where the Battery
gets its name. The aquarium is housed in the old fort."

"I see Alice," cried Sunny Boy.

"Yes, here they all are," said Mother.

The Kennedy family came up to them, and together they walked toward
the dingy building where the queer fish, Sunny had been told, lived.

"It doesn't look much, but think who's been in it," remarked Alice.
She went to school and liked history. "After it stopped being a fort,
they called it Castle Garden, and three presidents of the United
States held receptions there. 'Sides Lafayette landed there when he
came to this country to visit. Didn't he, Mother?"

"Yes," agreed Mrs. Kennedy. "But I think Sunny Boy is more interested
just now in seeing the fish. Here we are, and please, children, don't
all talk at once and do try to keep together."

Sunny Boy stared about him in amazement. Huge glass tanks with the
queerest fish he had ever seen swimming in them were on all sides of
him. A sudden noise, like a harsh cough, startled him.

"That's a seal," laughed Dick. "Come on over here, Sunny, and see
them."

Funny, flat heads, bright eyes and "whiskers" had the seals, and they
made the queer coughing sound Sunny Boy had heard. He privately didn't
think they were very pretty, and he admired the great turtles in
another tank much more.

"Let's go in back and see if we can touch the fish," he suggested to
Dick, when they had seen all the open tanks on the floor. "I'd like to
look out from behind there and see how it seems."

Dick was puzzled, but Alice understood right away.

"Those are all tanks, with just glass in front," she informed Sunny
Boy.

The round walls of the fort were set with what looked like glass
plates, behind which great lazy fish were idly swimming. It looked as
though one could go in back of them and see through, and perhaps touch
the fish in the water.

After they had seen all the fish in all the tanks downstairs, they
went upstairs and looked at the fish and the corals and anemones and
funny crabs living and growing in other glass tanks. The anemones
looked like beautiful, vivid flowers, and Mrs. Horton and Mrs. Kennedy
both exclaimed over their beauty.

"I like the crab that walks crooked best," announced Sunny Boy, and
Dick and Paul agreed with him.

When they came out of the aquarium they walked about the picturesque
old park a little, and then found a small place where they had lunch.

"What does Sunny Boy know about the statue we're going to see?" asked
Mrs. Kennedy, as they stepped on board the boat that was to take them
to the Statue of Liberty that afternoon. "My children have been so
often that it is an old story to them."

"I know," cried Sunny Boy eagerly. "Donald Joyce told me. I know,
don't I, Mother?"

"Donald Joyce is a young neighbor of ours who went to war and came
back safely," said Mrs. Horton.

"An' Donald said," recited Sunny Boy, slowly and carefully because he
did not want to forget before he had told it all, "the Statue of
Liberty was made by a man--you say it, Mother," he broke off. "It
begins with 'B'."

"A man named Bartholdi," said Mrs. Horton smilingly.

"A man named Bartholdi," repeated Sunny Boy. "He came over from France
to see us, and he saw all the im-im-immigrants acting glad when they
first saw the United States. So he went home and asked the French to
give some money so's he could build us a statue. And they did. And
Bartholdi made the statue and it's a present from France. Donald Joyce
said the soldiers were awful glad to see it when they came home from
France and they were glad they'd helped fight for the country that
made the Statue of Liberty, too."

"Isn't that nice?" said Alice Kennedy, with satisfaction. "I never
heard that part about the soldiers being glad. The boat's moving,
Sunny!"

The four children hung over the rail, pulled back now and then by an
anxious mother, during the short sail. Alice had brought some crumbs
of bread with her, and they amused themselves by throwing these into
the water for the gulls.

"See the boats!" cried Sunny Boy, pointing to several large steamers
plainly seen from their boat.

"That's Ellis Island we're passing," explained Mrs. Kennedy. "All the
immigrants are sent there from the ships on which they arrive. They
see the Statue of Liberty first, Sunny, as you said."

