It was from some of those old newspapers that Henriette read to Jean
the occurrences at Metz, the Titanic struggle that was three times
renewed, separated on each occasion by a day's interval. Dr. Irene
Sargent's Reply to Dr. Dernburg
Professor of the History of Fine Arts, Syracuse University.

_To the Editor of The New York Times:_
Contradicting Dr. Eliot, Dr. Bernhard Dernburg says:

Schleswig-Holstein was a dual Dukedom that never belonged to Denmark;
but, having as its Duke the King of Denmark, as long as he belonged
to the elder line of the house of Oldenburg ...
Frederick VII. wanted to incorporate the two German Dukedoms into
Denmark.... Then the people stood up and expressed the desire to remain
with the German Federation.

Such an assertion is a summary, inaccurate, and unfair manner of dealing
with perhaps the most complex series of diplomatic, legal, and racial
questions that arose in the nineteenth century. It would appear from
the best evidence that Schleswig was indissolubly united with
the Crown of Denmark. To maintain this principle Christian VIII. in
1846 issued letters patent declaring that the royal line of succession
(female) was in full force, as far as Schleswig was concerned. As
to Holstein, the King stated that he was prevented from giving an
equally clear decision, and the reason of his hesitation lay in the
assumption that the law of the Salic Saxons excluding women from
the throne would naturally prevail in Holstein, where the Germans, their
customs, and their language were dominant. Two years later, Prussia
sought to restore her prestige, lost in the Revolution of 1848, by
sending troops into the Duchies in order to enforce the principle
that this territory constituted two independent and indivisible States,
the government of which was hereditary in the male line alone.
The Prussian troops were afterward withdrawn by the hesitating
Frederic William, and there followed a succession of protocols,
constitutions, and compacts until the time of Bismarck, who, in his
"Reflections," Volume II., Page 10, in writing of the Duchies,
acknowledges:

"From the beginning I kept annexation steadily before my eyes."

The master of statecraft conquered. But did the people "stand up and
express their desire to remain with the German Federation," as Dr.
Dernburg asserts?

If his assertion be true, why were the Danish "optants" subjected
to domiciliary visits, perquisitions, arrest, and expulsion? And why--only
to mention one instance of espionage--did the Prussian police confiscate
the issue of a Danish newspaper published in Schleswig because it
contained a reference to that Duchy under its historic name of
South Jutland?

The truth stands that the whole Schleswig-Holstein question is one that
involves the modern principle of "nationality," and, as such, enters
of necessity into the present European crisis. It is broadly understood
by Dr. Eliot and willfully misapprehended by his critic.

Passing on to consider Alsace-Lorraine, Dr. Dernburg declares that "it
had belonged to Germany until it was taken, against the will of
the people, under Louis XIV."

In this statement, as in the treatment of the previous question,
facts are mutilated and wrong impressions are given. Alsace, it is
well known, was included within the confines of ancient Gaul, its
original population was Celtic, and it passed, late in the fifth
Christian century, under the rule of the Franks, one of whose
chieftains, Clovis, became the founder of the first French monarchy.
In dealing with its later history Dr. Dernburg confuses the Holy
Roman (Germanic) Empire with Germany, considered in its modern
sense. He appears to forget that the reign of Louis XIV. was an age
of absolutism and not of plébiscites.
He also ignores that the most strenuous efforts on the part of
Germany to strangle the French nationality and language in the
imperial territory (Alsace-Lorraine) have proved useless, although
they have been exerted constantly for almost a half century.--TR.

As Henriette pursued her reading Jean momentarily interrupted her to
say:

"Ah, well! and to think that we fellows, after leaving Rheims, were
looking for Bazaine! They were always telling us he was coming; now I
can see why he never came!"

The marshal's despatch, dated the 19th, after the battle of
Saint-Privat, in which he spoke of resuming his retrograde movement by
way of Montmedy, that despatch which had for its effect the advance of
the army of Chalons, would seem to have been nothing more than the
report of a defeated general, desirous to present matters under their
most favorable aspect, and it was not until a considerably later
period, the 29th, when the tidings of the approach of this relieving
army had reached him through the Prussian lines, that he attempted a
final effort, on the right bank this time, at Noiseville, but in such
a feeble, half-hearted way that on the 1st of September, the day when
the army of Chalons was annihilated at Sedan, the army of Metz fell
back to advance no more, and became as if dead to France. The marshal,
whose conduct up to that time may fairly be characterized as that of a
leader of only moderate ability, neglecting his opportunities and
failing to move when the roads were open to him, after that blockaded
by forces greatly superior to his own, was now about to be seduced by
alluring visions of political greatness and become a conspirator and a
traitor.

But in the papers that Doctor Dalichamp brought them Bazaine was still
the great man and the gallant soldier, to whom France looked for her
salvation.

And Jean wanted certain passages read to him again, in order that he
might more clearly understand how it was that while the third German
army, under the Crown Prince of Prussia, had been leading them such a
dance, and the first and second were besieging Metz, the latter were
so strong in men and guns that it had been possible to form from them
a fourth army, which, under the Crown Prince of Saxony, had done so
much to decide the fortune of the day at Sedan. Then, having obtained
the information he desired, resting on that bed of suffering to which
his wound condemned him, he forced himself to hope in spite of all.

"That's how it is, you see; we were not so strong as they! No one can
ever get at the rights of such matters while the fighting is going on.
Never mind, though; you have read the figures as the newspapers give
them: Bazaine has a hundred and fifty thousand men with him, he has
three hundred thousand small arms and more than five hundred pieces of
artillery; take my word for it, he is not going to let himself be
caught in such a scrape as we were. The fellows all say he is a tough
man to deal with; depend on it he's fixing up a nasty dose for the
enemy, and he'll make 'em swallow it."

Henriette nodded her head and appeared to agree with him, in order to
keep him in a cheerful frame of mind. She could not follow those
complicated operations of the armies, but had a presentiment of
coming, inevitable evil. Her voice was fresh and clear; she could have
gone on reading thus for hours; only too glad to have it in her power
to relieve the tedium of his long day, though at times, when she came
to some narrative of slaughter, her eyes would fill with tears that
made the words upon the printed page a blur. She was doubtless
thinking of her husband's fate, how he had been shot down at the foot
of the wall and his body desecrated by the touch of the Bavarian
officer's boot.

"If it gives you such pain," Jean said in surprise, "you need not read
the battles; skip them."

But, gentle and self-sacrificing as ever, she recovered herself
immediately.

"No, no; don't mind my weakness; I assure you it is a pleasure to me."

One evening early in October, when the wind was blowing a small
hurricane outside, she came in from the ambulance and entered the room
with an excited air, saying:

"A letter from Maurice! the doctor just gave it me."

With each succeeding morning the twain had been becoming more and more
alarmed that the young man sent them no word, and now that for a whole
week it had been rumored everywhere that the investment of Paris was
complete, they were more disturbed in mind than ever, despairing of
receiving tidings, asking themselves what could have happened him
after he left Rouen. And now the reason of the long silence was made
clear to them: the letter that he had addressed from Paris to Doctor
Dalichamp on the 18th, the very day that ended railway communication
with Havre, had gone astray and had only reached them at last by a
miracle, after a long and circuitous journey.

"Ah, the dear boy!" said Jean, radiant with delight. "Read it to me,
quick!"

The wind was howling and shrieking more dismally than ever, the window
of the apartment strained and rattled as if someone were trying to
force an entrance. Henriette went and got the little lamp, and placing
it on the table beside the bed applied herself to the reading of the
missive, so close to Jean that their faces almost touched. There was a
sensation of warmth and comfort in the peaceful room amid the roaring
of the storm that raged without.

It was a long letter of eight closely filled pages, in which Maurice
first told how, soon after his arrival on the 16th, he had had the
good fortune to get into a line regiment that was being recruited up
to its full strength. Then, reverting to facts of history, he
described in brief but vigorous terms the principal events of that
month of terror: how Paris, recovering her sanity in a measure after
the madness into which the disasters of Wissembourg and Froeschwiller
had driven her, had comforted herself with hopes of future victories,
had cheered herself with fresh illusions, such as lying stories of the
army's successes, the appointment of Bazaine to the chief command, the
_levee en masse_, bogus dispatches, which the ministers themselves
read from the tribune, telling of hecatombs of slaughtered Prussians.
And then he went on to tell how, on the 3d of September, the
thunderbolt had a second time burst over the unhappy capital: all hope
gone, the misinformed, abused, confiding city dazed by that crushing
blow of destiny, the cries: "Down with the Empire!" that resounded at
night upon the boulevards, the brief and gloomy session of the Chamber
at which Jules Favre read the draft of the bill that conceded the
popular demand. Then on the next day, the ever-memorable 4th of
September, was the upheaval of all things, the second Empire swept
from existence in atonement for its mistakes and crimes, the entire
population of the capital in the streets, a torrent of humanity a half
a million strong filling the Place de la Concorde and streaming onward
in the bright sunshine of that beautiful Sabbath day to the great
gates of the Corps Legislatif, feebly guarded by a handful of troops,
who up-ended their muskets in the air in token of sympathy with the
populace--smashing in the doors, swarming into the assembly chambers,
whence Jules Favre, Gambetta and other deputies of the Left were even
then on the point of departing to proclaim the Republic at the Hotel
de Ville; while on the Place Saint-Germain-l'Auxerrois a little wicket
of the Louvre opened timidly and gave exit to the Empress-regent,
attired in black garments and accompanied by a single female friend,
both the women trembling with affright and striving to conceal
themselves in the depths of the public cab, which went jolting with
its scared inmates from the Tuileries, through whose apartments the
mob was at that moment streaming. On the same day Napoleon III. left
the inn at Bouillon, where he had passed his first night of exile,
bending his way toward Wilhelmshohe.

Here Jean, a thoughtful expression on his face, interrupted Henriette.

"Then we have a republic now? So much the better, if it is going to
help us whip the Prussians!"

But he shook his head; he had always been taught to look distrustfully
on republics when he was a peasant. And then, too, it did not seem to
him a good thing that they should be of differing minds when the enemy
was fronting them. After all, though, it was manifest there had to be
a change of some kind, since everyone knew the Empire was rotten to
the core and the people would have no more of it.

Henriette finished the letter, which concluded with a mention of the
approach of the German armies. On the 13th, the day when a committee
of the Government of National Defense had established its quarters at
Tours, their advanced guards had been seen at Lagny, to the east of
Paris. On the 14th and 15th they were at the very gates of the city,
at Creteil and Joinville-le-Pont. On the 18th, however, the day when
Maurice wrote, he seemed to have ceased to believe in the possibility
of maintaining a strict blockade of Paris; he appeared to be under the
influence of one of his hot fits of blind confidence, characterising
the siege as a senseless and impudent enterprise that would come to an
ignominious end before they were three weeks older, relying on the
armies that the provinces would surely send to their relief, to say
nothing of the army of Metz, that was already advancing by way of
Verdun and Rheims. The sight was so sickening that the earthmen fired
at every living thing they could see. Several of the wounded creatures
crawled up the huge pillars, to disappear through the opening
above, while the men shot at their disappearing forms. When the last
caterpillar lay dead, the entire area appeared like a battlefield.

Three days later the gas had been expelled, and the hole in the
dome repaired. The population was returning to their homes, burying the
carcasses in the fields.

The city was livable again, and they knew electric current would
stop any future attack of the strange creatures.

* * * * *

Ten years later, Dick Barrow sat on the balcony before his
apartment.
His son John, eight years old, was playing with Dick McCarthy.rejoined Jean, "that's a very nice letter of his, and it's a
comfort to have heard from him. We must not despair."

Thus, day by day, the month of October ran its course, with gray
melancholy skies, and if ever the wind went down for a short space it
was only to bring the clouds back in darker, heavier masses. Jean's
wound was healing very slowly; the outflow from the drain was not the
"laudable pus" which would have permitted the doctor to remove the
appliance, and the patient was in a very enfeebled state, refusing,
however, to be operated on in his dread of being left a cripple. An
atmosphere of expectant resignation, disturbed at times by transient
misgivings for which there was no apparent cause, pervaded the
slumberous little chamber, to which the tidings from abroad came in
vague, indeterminate shape, like the distorted visions of an evil
dream. The hateful war, with its butcheries and disasters, was still
raging out there in the world, in some quarter unknown to them,
without their ever being able to learn the real course of events,
without their being conscious of aught save the wails and groans that
seemed to fill the air from their mangled, bleeding country. And the
dead leaves rustled in the paths as the wind swept them before it
beneath the gloomy sky, and over the naked fields brooded a funereal
silence, broken only by the cawing of the crows, presage of a bitter
winter.

A principal subject of conversation between them at this time was the
hospital, which Henriette never left except to come and cheer Jean
with her company. When she came in at evening he would question her,
making the acquaintance of each of her charges, desirous to know who
would die and who recover; while she, whose heart and soul were in her
occupation, never wearied, but related the occurrences of the day in
their minutest details.

What German Domination Would Mean.

The present war is the inevitable result of lust of empire, autocratic
government, sudden wealth, and the religion of valor. What German
domination would mean to any that should resist it the experience of
Belgium and Northern France during the past three months aptly demonstrates.
The civilized world can now see where the new German morality--be
efficient, be virile, be hard, be bloody, be rulers--would land it.
To maintain that the power which has adopted in practice that new
morality, and in accordance with its precepts promised Austria
its support against Servia and invaded Belgium and France in hot haste,
is not the responsible author of the European war, is to throw away
memory, reason, and common sense in judging the human agencies in
current events.

The real cause of the war is this gradually developed barbaric state of
the German mind and will. All other causes--such as the assassination
of the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary, the sympathy of Russia
with the Balkan States, the French desire for the recovery of
Alsace-Lorraine, and Great Britain's jealousy of German
aggrandizement--are secondary and incidental causes, contributory,
indeed, but not primary and fundamental.

If any one ask who brought the ruling class in Germany to this
barbaric frame of mind, the answer must be Bismarck, Moltke,
Treitschke, Nietzsche, Bernhardi, the German Emperor, their like,
their disciples, and the military caste.

Germany Never Dreaded Russia.

Many German apologists for the war attribute it to German fear of
Russia. They say that, although Germany committed the first actual
aggression by invading Belgium and Luxemburg on the way to attack
France with the utmost speed and fierceness, the war is really a
war of defense against Russia, which might desirably pass over, after
France has been crushed, into a war against Great Britain, that
perfidious and insolent obstacle to Germany's world empire. The
answer to this explanation is that, as a matter of fact, Germany has
never dreaded, or even respected, the military strength of Russia,
and that the recent wars and threatenings of war by Germany have not
been directed against Russia, but against Denmark, Austria, France,
and England. In her colonization enterprises it is not Russia that
Germany has encountered, but England, France, and the United States.
The friendly advances made within the last twenty years by Germany
to Turkey were not intended primarily to strengthen Germany against
Russia, but Germany against Great Britain through access by land to
British India. In short, Germany's policies, at home and abroad,
during the last forty years have been inspired not by fear of
Russia, or of any other invader, but by its own aggressive ambition
for world empire. In the present war it thinks it has staked its
all on "empire or downfall." 

Germany Should Be Defeated.
Those nations which value public liberty and believe that the primary
object of Government is to promote the general welfare by measures
and policies founded on justice, good-will, and respect for the
freedom of the individual cannot but hope that Germany will be
completely defeated in its present undertakings; but they do not
believe that Germany is compelled to choose between a life of
domination in Europe and the world and national death.But worst of all was the condemned cell, the room to which were
assigned those who were attacked by dysentery, typhus or small-pox.
There were many cases of black small-pox. The patients writhed and
shrieked in unceasing delirium, or sat erect in bed with the look of
specters. Others had pneumonia and were wasting beneath the stress of
their frightful cough. There were others again who maintained a
continuous howling and were comforted only when their burning,
throbbing wound was sprayed with cold water. The great hour of the
day, the one that was looked forward to with eager expectancy, was
that of the doctor's morning visit, when the beds were opened and
aired and an opportunity was afforded their occupants to stretch their
limbs, cramped by remaining long in one position. And it was the hour
of dread and terror as well, for not a day passed that, as the doctor
went his rounds, he was not pained to see on some poor devil's skin
the bluish spots that denoted the presence of gangrene. The operation
would be appointed for the following day, when a few more inches of
the leg or arm would be sliced away. Often the gangrene kept mounting
higher and higher, and amputation had to be repeated until the entire
limb was gone.

Every evening on her return Henriette answered Jean's questions in the
same tone of compassion:

"Ah, the poor boys, the poor boys!"

And her particulars never varied; they were the story of the daily
recurring torments of that earthly hell. There had been an amputation
at the shoulder-joint, a foot had been taken off, a humerus resected;
but would gangrene or purulent contagion be clement and spare the
patient? Or else they had been burying some one of their inmates, most
frequently a Frenchman, now and then a German. Scarcely a day passed
but a coarse coffin, hastily knocked together from four pine boards,
left the hospital at the twilight hour, accompanied by a single
one of the attendants, often by the young woman herself, that a
fellow-creature might not be laid away in his grave like a dog. In the
little cemetery at Remilly two trenches had been dug, and there they
slumbered, side by side, French to the right, Germans to the left,
their enmity forgotten in their narrow bed.

Jean, without ever having seen them, had come to feel an interest in
certain among the patients. He would ask for tidings of them.

"And 'Poor boy,' how is he getting on to-day?"

This was a little soldier, a private in the 5th of the line, not yet
twenty years old, who had doubtless enlisted as a volunteer. The
by-name: "Poor boy" had been given him and had stuck because he always
used the words in speaking of himself, and when one day he was asked
the reason he replied that that was the name by which his mother had
always called him. Poor boy he was, in truth, for he was dying of
pleurisy brought on by a wound in his left side.

"Ah, poor fellow," replied Henriette, who had conceived a special
fondness for this one of her charges, "he is no better; he coughed all
the afternoon. It pained my heart to hear him."

"And your bear, Gutman, how about him?" pursued Jean, with a faint
smile. "Is the doctor's report more favorable?"

"Yes, he thinks he may be able to save his life. But the poor man
suffers dreadfully."

Although they both felt the deepest compassion for him, they never
spoke of Gutman but a smile of gentle amusement came to their lips.
Almost immediately upon entering on her duties at the hospital the
young woman had been shocked to recognize in that Bavarian soldier the
features: big blue eyes, red hair and beard and massive nose, of the
man who had carried her away in his arms the day they shot her husband
at Bazeilles. He recognized her as well, but could not speak; a musket
ball, entering at the back of the neck, had carried away half his
tongue. For two days she recoiled with horror, an involuntary shudder
passed through her frame, each time she had to approach his bed, but
presently her heart began to melt under the imploring, very gentle
looks with which he followed her movements in the room. Was he not the
blood-splashed monster, with eyes ablaze with furious rage, whose
memory was ever present to her mind? It cost her an effort to
recognize him now in that submissive, uncomplaining creature, who bore
his terrible suffering with such cheerful resignation. The nature of
his affliction, which is not of frequent occurrence, enlisted for him
the sympathies of the entire hospital. It was not even certain that
his name was Gutman; he was called so because the only sound he
succeeded in articulating was a word of two syllables that resembled
that more than it did anything else. As regarded all other particulars
concerning him everyone was in the dark; it was generally believed,
however, that he was married and had children. He seemed to understand
a few words of French, for he would answer questions that were put to
him with an emphatic motion of the head: "Married?" yes, yes!
"Children?" yes, yes! The interest and excitement he displayed one day
that he saw some flour induced them to believe he might have been a
miller. And that was all. Where was the mill, whose wheel had ceased
to turn? In what distant Bavarian village were the wife and children
now weeping their lost husband and father? Was he to die, nameless,
unknown, in that foreign country, and leave his dear ones forever
ignorant of his fate?

"To-day," Henriette told Jean one evening, "Gutman kissed his hand to
me. I cannot give him a drink of water, or render him any other
trifling service, but he manifests his gratitude by the most
extravagant demonstrations. Don't smile; it is too terrible to be
buried thus alive before one's time has come."

Toward the end of October Jean's condition began to improve. The
doctor thought he might venture to remove the drain, although he still
looked apprehensive whenever he examined the wound, which,
nevertheless appeared to be healing as rapidly as could be expected.
The convalescent was able to leave his bed, and spent hours at a time
pacing his room or seated at the window, looking out on the cheerless,
leaden sky. Then time began to hang heavy on his hands; he spoke of
finding something to do, asked if he could not be of service on the
farm. Among the secret cares that disturbed his mind was the question
of money, for he did not suppose he could have lain there for six long
weeks and not exhaust his little fortune of two hundred francs, and if
Father Fouchard continued to afford him hospitality it must be that
Henriette had been paying his board. The so-called British Empire
tends strongly to become a federation; and the methods of Government
both in Great Britain itself and in its affiliated Commonwealths are
becoming more and more democratic in substance. The war has brought
this fact out in high relief.

