On this eventful day, since we cannot reject the testimony of an
eye-witness of discernment, we must believe that party spirit, which had
usually so little influence over his sense of justice, swayed the
prepossessions of Lord Hardwicke. At all events, it affected his
treatment of the unhappy men to whom he displayed a petulance wholly
derogatory to his character as a judge, and discreditable to his
feelings as a man. "Instead of keeping up the humane dignity of the law
of England, whose character is to point out any favour to the criminal,
he crossed them, and almost scolded at any offer they made towards
defence." Such is the remark of Horace Walpole.[362] Comely in person,
and possessing a fine voice, Lord Hardwicke had every opportunity, on
this occasion, of a graceful display of dignity and courtesy; yet his
deportment, usually so calm and lofty, was obsequious, "curiously
searching for occasion to bow to the minister, and, consequently,
applying to the other ministers, in a manner, for their orders;--not
even ready at the ceremonial." Notwithstanding, Lord Hardwicke, on his
death-bed, could with confidence declare "that he had never wronged any
man." The unhappy Jacobites seem, indeed, to have been considered
exceptions to all the common rules of clemency. None of the Royal
Family were present at the trial, from a proper regard for the feelings
of the prisoners, and also, perhaps, from a nice sense of the
peculiarity of their own condition.

After the warrants to the Lieutenant of the Tower were read, the Lord
High Steward addressed the prisoners, telling them that although their
crimes were of the most heinous nature, they were still open to such
defences as circumstances, and the rules of law and justice would allow.
The indictments for high treason were then read: to these, Lords
Kilmarnock and Cromartie pleaded guilty; but when the question was put
to Lord Balmerino, he demanded boldly, but respectfully to be heard,
objecting to two clauses in the indictment, in which he was styled
"Arthur Lord Balmerino, of the town of Carlisle," and also charging him
with being at the taking of Carlisle, when he could prove "that he was
not within twelve miles of it." Not insisting upon these objections, and
the question being again put to him, he then pleaded, 'not guilty.' Lord
Kilmarnock and Lord Cromartie were removed from the bar, and the trial
of Balmerino began. It was prefaced by addresses from Sir Richard Loyd,
king's counsel, and from Mr. Serjeant Skinner, who made, what was justly
considered by H. Walpole, "the most absurd speech imaginable," calling
"Rebellion, surely the sin of witchcraft," and applying to the Duke of
Cumberland the unfortunate appellation of "Scipio."[363] The Attorney
General followed, and witnesses were afterwards examined, who fully
proved, though accused by Balmerino of some inconsistencies, his acts of
adherence to the Chevalier; his being present in towns where James
Stuart was proclaimed King; his wearing the regimentals of Prince
Charles's body guards; his marching into Carlisle at the head of his
troops, with a white cockade in his cap; his presence at the battle of
Falkirk, in a field with Lords Kilmarnock and Pitsligo, who were at the
head of a corps of reserve. Six witnesses were examined, but there was
no cross-examination, except such as Balmerino himself attempted. The
witnesses were chiefly men who had served in the same cause for which
the brave Balmerino was soon to suffer. After they had delivered their
testimony, the "old hero," as he was well styled, shook hands cordially
with them. In one or two instances, as far as can be judged by the
answers, the evidence seems to have been given with reluctance. Lord
Balmerino being asked if he had any thing to offer in his defence, he
observed that none of the witnesses had agreed upon the same day as that
which was named in the indictment for being at Carlisle; and objected to
the indictment, that he was not at the taking of Carlisle as therein
specified. His objections were taken into consideration; the Lords
retired to their chamber, and there consulted the judges whether it be
necessary that an overt act of high treason should be proved to have
been committed on the particular day named in the indictment.

The answer being in the negative, every hope of acquittal was
annihilated for Balmerino. He gave up every further defence, and
apologised with his usual blunt courtesy for giving their Lordships so
much trouble: he said that his objections had been the result of advice
given by Mr. Ross, his solicitor, who had laid the case before counsel.
The question was then put by the Lord High Steward, standing up,
uncovered, to the Lords, beginning with the youngest peer, Lord Herbert
of Cherbury; "whether Arthur Lord Balmerino were guilty of high treason,
or not guilty?" An unanimous reply was uttered by all those who were
present; "guilty upon my honour." Lord Balmerino, who had retired while
the question was put, was then brought back to the bar to hear the
decision of the Lords. It was received with the intrepidity which had,
all throughout the trial, characterised the soldier and the man. During
the intervals of form, his natural playfulness and humour appeared, and
the kindness of his disposition was manifested. A little boy being in
the course of the trial near him, but not tall enough to see, he took
him up, made room for the child, and placed him near himself. The axe
inspired him with no associations of fear. He played upon it, while
talking, with his fingers, and some one coming up to listen to what he
was saying, he held it up like a fan between his face and that of the
gentleman-gaoler, to the great amusement of all beholders. And this
carelessness of the emblem of death was but a prelude to the calmness
with which he met his fate. "All he troubled himself about," as a writer
of the time observed, "was to end as he begun, and to let his sun set
with as _full_ and _fair_ a light as it was possible."[364] During the
time that the Lords were withdrawn, the Solicitor-General Murray, and
brother of Murray of Broughton, addressed Balmerino, asking him "how he
could give the Lords so much trouble," when he had been told by his
solicitor that the plea could be of no use to him? The defection and
perfidy of Murray of Broughton were now generally known; and the
officious insolence of his inquiry was both revolting and indiscreet.
Balmerino asked who this person was, and being told, exclaimed, "Oh! Mr.
Murray, I am extremely glad to see you. I have been with several of your
relations, the poor lady, your mother, was of great use to us at
Perth."[365] An admirable and well-merited rebuke. He afterwards
declared humorously that one of his reasons for not pleading guilty was,
"that so many fine ladies might not be disappointed of their show."

Besides the interest which at such a moment the grave dignity of
Kilmarnock, contrasted with the lofty indifference of Balmerino, might
excite, there was some diversion among the Peers, owing to the
eccentricity of several of their body. Of these, one, Lord Windsor,
affectedly said when asked for his vote, "I am sorry I must say, _guilty
upon my honour_." Another nobleman, Lord Stamford, refused to answer to
the name of Henry, having been christened Harry. "What a great way of
thinking," remarks Horace Walpole, "on such an occasion." Lord Foley
withdrew, as being a well-wisher to poor Balmerino; Lord Stair on the
plea of kindred--"uncle," as Horace Walpole sneeringly remarks, to his
great-grandfather; and the Earl of Moray on account of his relationship
to Balmerino, his mother, Jane Elphinstone, being sister to that
nobleman.[366]

But the greatest source of amusement to all who were present was the
celebrated Audrey, or to speak in more polite phrase, Ethelreda, Lady
Townshend, the wife of Charles, third Viscount Townshend, and the
mother of the celebrated wit, Charles Townshend. Lady Townshend was
renowned for her epigrams, to which, perhaps, in this case, her being
separated from her husband gave additional point. When she heard her
husband vote, "_guilty upon my honour_," she remarked, "I always knew
_my_ Lord was _guilty_, but I never knew that he would own it upon his
_honour_." Her sarcastic humour was often exhibited at the expense of
friend or foe. When some one related that Whitfield had recanted, "No,
madam," she replied, "he has only _canted_." And when Lord Bath ventured
to complain to this audacious leader of fashion, that he had a pain in
his side, she cried out, "Oh! that cannot be, you have _no side_."

A touch of feminine feeling softened the harshness of the professed wit,
always a dangerous, and scarcely ever a pleasing character in woman. As
Lady Townshend gazed on the prisoners at the bar, and saw the elegant
and melancholy aspect of Lord Kilmarnock, the heart that was not wholly
seared by a worldly career is said to have been deeply and seriously
touched by the graces of that incomparable person, and the mournful
dignity of his manner. Perhaps, opposition to her husband, whose
grandfather was Minister to George the First, and whose mother was a
Walpole, gave the additional luxury of partisanship; that passion which
lasted even some weeks after the scene was closed; and when the
fashionable world were left to enjoy, undisturbed by any fears of any
future rebellion, all the dangerous attractions of the dissolute Court.

The first day's proceedings being at an end, the prisoners were
remanded to the Tower. On the following morning the proceedings were
resumed, and the Lords having assembled in the Painted Chamber, took
their places in Westminster Hall. The three lords were then again
brought to the bar, again kneeled down, again were bidden to arise. The
Attorney-General having prayed for judgment upon the prisoners, they
were desired by the Lord High Steward to say "why judgment of death
should not be passed against them according to law."

The reply of Lord Kilmarnock is described as having been a "very fine
speech, delivered in a very fine voice;" his behaviour during the whole
of the trial, a "most just mixture between dignity and submission." Such
is the avowal of one who could not be supposed very favourable to the
party; but whose better feelings were, for once, called into play during
this remarkable scene.[367]

The address of Lord Kilmarnock, however beautiful and touching in
expression, will not, however, satisfy those who look for consistency in
the most solemn moments of this chequered state of trial; but in
perusing the summary of it, let it be remembered that he was a father;
the father of those who had already suffered deeply for his adherence to
Charles Edward; that he was the husband of a lady who, whatever may have
been their differences, was at that awful hour still fondly beloved;
that he dreaded penury for his children, an apprehension which those who
remembered the fate of the Jacobites of 1715 might well recall; a dread,
aggravated by his rank; a dread, the bitterness of which is
indescribable; the temptations it offers unspeakably great. These
considerations, far stronger than the fear of death, actuated Lord
Kilmarnock. He arose, and a deep silence was procured, whilst he offered
no justification of his conduct, "which had been," he said, "of too
heinous a nature to be vindicated, and which any endeavour to excuse
would rather aggravate than diminish." He declared himself ready to
submit to the sentence which he was conscious that he had deserved.
"Covered with confusion and grief, I throw myself at his Majesty's
feet."

He then appealed to the uniform honour of his life, previous to the
insurrection, in evidence of his principles. "My sphere of action,
indeed, was narrow; but as much as I could do in that sphere, it is well
known, I have always exerted myself to the utmost in every part of his
Majesty's service I had an opportunity to act in, from my first
appearance in the world, to the time I was drawn into the crime, for
which I now appeal before your Lordships."

He referred to his conduct during the civil contest; to his endeavours
to avert needless injury to his opponents; to his care of the prisoners,
a plea which he yet allowed to be no atonement for the "blood he had
been accessary to the spilling of. Neither," he said, "do I plead it as
such, as at all in defence of my crime."

"I have a son, my lords," he proceeded, "who has the honour to carry his
Majesty's commission; whose behaviour, I believe, will sufficiently
evince, that he has been educated in the firmest revolution principles,
and brought up with the warmest attachment to his Majesty's interests,
and the highest zeal for his most sacred person.

"It was my chief care to instruct him in these principles from his
earliest youth, and to confirm him, as he grew up, in the justice and
necessity of them to the good and welfare of the nation. And, I thank
God, I have succeeded;--for his father's example did not shake his
loyalty; the ties of nature yielded to those of duty; he adhered to the
principles of his family, and nobly exposed his life at the battle of
Culloden, in defence of his King and the liberties of Great Britain, in
which I, his unfortunate father, was in arms to destroy."

Lord Kilmarnock next alluded to the services of his father in 1715, when
his zeal and activity in the service of Government had caused his death:
"I had then," he added, "the honour to serve under him."

Lord Kilmarnock proceeded to explain his own circumstances at the time
of the insurrection: he declared that he was not one of those dangerous
persons who could raise a number of men when they will, and command them
on any enterprise they will: "my interests," he said, "lie on the south
side of the Forth, in the well inhabited, and well affected counties of
Kilmarnock and Falkirk, in the shires of Ayr and Stirling." His
influence he declared to be very small.

This portion of his appeal was ill-advised; for it seems to have been
the policy of Government to have selected as objects of royal mercy
those who had most in their power, not the feeble and impoverished
members of the Jacobite party. It has been shown what favour would have
been manifested to the chief of the powerful clan Cameron, had he
deigned to receive it: and the event proved, that not the decayed
branches, but the vigorous shoots were spared. Lord Cromartie, who had
taken a far more signal part in the insurrection than either Kilmarnock
or Balmerino, and whose resources were considerable, was eventually
pardoned, probably with the hope of conciliating a numerous clan.

After appealing to his surrender in extenuation of his sentence, and
beseeching the intercession of the Lords with his Majesty, Lord
Kilmarnock concluded--"It is by Britons only that I pray to be
recommended to a British monarch. But if justice allow not of mercy, my
lords, I will lay down my life with patience and resignation; my last
breath shall be employed in the most fervent prayers for the
preservation and prosperity of his Majesty, and to beg his forgiveness,
and the forgiveness of my country." He concluded, amid the tears and
commiseration of a great majority of those who heard his address.

The Earl of Cromartie was then called upon to speak in arrest of
judgment. His defence is said to have been a masterly piece of
eloquence. It ended with a pathetic appeal, which fell powerless on
those who heard him.[368]

"But, after all, if my safety shall be found inconsistent with that of
the public, and nothing but my blood be thought necessary to atone for
my unhappy crimes; if the sacrifice of my life, my fortune, and family,
are judged indispensable for stopping the loud demands of public
justice; if, notwithstanding all the allegations that can be urged in my
favour, the bitter cup is not to pass from me, not mine, but thy will, O
God, be donePerhaps he does not make sufficient allowance for the regulated
licence of plain speaking proper to the festival of the god, and
claimed by the Comic poet as his inalienable right, or for the fact
that it was a festival in a season of licence, in a city accustomed
to give ear to the boldest utterance of both sides of a case.

However that may be, there can be no question that the men and women
who sat through the acting of Wycherley's Country Wife were past blushing.
Our tenacity of national impressions has caused the word theatre since
then to prod the Puritan nervous system like a satanic instrument; just
as one has known Anti-Papists, for whom Smithfield was redolent of a
sinister smoke, as though they had a later recollection of the place
than the lowing herds. Hereditary Puritanism, regarding the stage, is
met, to this day, in many families quite undistinguished by arrogant
piety. It has subsided altogether as a power in the profession
of morality; but it is an error to suppose it extinct, and unjust also
to forget that it had once good reason to hate, shun, and rebuke our
public shows.

We shall find ourselves about where the Comic spirit would place
us, if we stand at middle distance between the inveterate opponents
and the drum- and-fife supporters of Comedy: 'Comme un point fixe
fait remarquer l'emportement des autres,' as Pascal says.

And were there more in this position, Comic genius would flourish.

Our English idea of a Comedy of Manners might be imaged in the person of
a blowsy country girl--say Hoyden, the daughter of Sir Tunbelly Clumsy,
who, when at home, 'never disobeyed her father except in the eating
of green gooseberries'--transforming to a varnished City madam; with a
loud laugh and a mincing step; the crazy ancestress of an accountably
fallen descendant. She bustles prodigiously and is punctually smart in
her speech, always in a fluster to escape from Dulness, as they say
the dogs on the Nile-banks drink at the river running to avoid the
crocodile. If the monster catches her, as at times he does, she whips
him to a froth, so that those who know Dulness only as a thing of
ponderousness, shall fail to recognise him in that light and airy
shape.

When she has frolicked through her five Acts to surprise you with the
information that Mr. Aimwell is converted by a sudden death in the world
outside the scenes into Lord Aimwell, and can marry the lady in the
light of day, it is to the credit of her vivacious nature that she does
not anticipate your calling her Farce. Five is dignity with a trailing
robe; whereas one, two, or three Acts would be short skirts, and
degrading.
Advice has been given to householders, that they should follow up the
shot at a burglar in the dark by hurling the pistol after it, so that
if the bullet misses, the weapon may strike and assure the rascal
he has it.
The point of her wit is in this fashion supplemented by the rattle of her
tongue, and effectively, according to the testimony of her admirers.
Her wit is at once, like steam in an engine, the motive force and the
warning whistle of her headlong course; and it vanishes like the track
of steam when she has reached her terminus, never troubling the brains
afterwards; a merit that it shares with good wine, to the joy of the
Bacchanalians.
As to this wit, it is warlike. In the neatest hands it is like the sword
of the cavalier in the Mall, quick to flash out upon slight provocation,
and for a similar office--to wound.

Commonly its attitude is entirely pugilistic; two blunt fists rallying
and countering. When harmless, as when the word 'fool' occurs, or
allusions to the state of husband, it has the sound of the smack of
harlequin's wand upon clown, and is to the same extent exhilarating.
Believe that idle empty laughter is the most desirable of recreations,
and significant Comedy will seem pale and shallow in comparison. Our
popular idea would be hit by the sculptured group of Laughter holding
both his sides, while Comedy pummels, by way of tickling him. As to a
meaning, she holds that it does not conduce to making merry: you
might as well carry cannon on a racing-yacht.

Morality is a duenna to be circumvented. This was the view of English
Comedy of a sagacious essayist, who said that the end of a Comedy
would often be the commencement of a Tragedy, were the curtain to rise
again on the performers. In those old days female modesty was protected
by a fan, behind which, and it was of a convenient semicircular
breadth, the ladies present in the theatre retired at a signal of
decorum, to peep, covertly askant, or with the option of so peeping,
through a prettily fringed eyelet-hole in the eclipsing arch.

'Ego limis specto sic per flabellum clanculum.'--
TERENCE.

That fan is the flag and symbol of the society giving us our so-called
Comedy of Manners, or Comedy of the manners of South-sea Islanders under
city veneer; and as to Comic idea, vacuous as the mask without the face
behind it.

Elia, whose humour delighted in floating a galleon paradox and wafting
it as far as it would go, bewails the extinction of our artificial
Comedy, like a poet sighing over the vanished splendour of Cleopatra's
Nile-barge; and the sedateness of his plea for a cause condemned
even in his time to the penitentiary, is a novel effect of the ludicrous.
When the realism of those 'fictitious half-believed personages,'
as he calls them, had ceased to strike, they were objectionable
company, uncaressable as puppets.

Their artifices are staringly naked, and have now the effect of a
painted face viewed, after warm hours of dancing, in the morning
light. How could the Lurewells and the Plyants ever have been praised for
ingenuity in wickedness? Critics, apparently sober, and of high
reputation, held up their shallow knaveries for the world to admire.
These Lurewells, Plyants, Pinchwifes, Fondlewifes, Miss Prue, Peggy,
Hoyden, all of them save charming Milamant, are dead as last year's
clothes in a fashionable fine lady's wardrobe, and it must be an
exceptionably abandoned Abigail of our period that would look on
them with the wish to appear in their likeness.

Whether the puppet show of Punch and Judy inspires our street-urchins
to have instant recourse to their fists in a dispute, after the
fashion of every one of the actors in that public entertainment who
gets possession of the cudgel, is open to question: it has been
hinted; and angry moralists have traced the national taste for tales
of crime to the smell of blood in our nursery- songs.

It will at any rate hardly be questioned that it is unwholesome for men
and women to see themselves as they are, if they are no better than they
should be: and they will not, when they have improved in manners,
care much to see themselves as they once were. That comes of realism in
the Comic art; and it is not public caprice, but the consequence of
a bettering state. {2} The same of an immoral may be said of realistic
exhibitions of a vulgar society.

The French make a critical distinction in _ce qui remue_ from _ce qui
emeut_--that which agitates from that which touches with emotion. In
the realistic comedy it is an incessant _remuage_--no calm, merely
bustling figures, and no thought. Excepting Congreve's Way of the
World, which failed on the stage, there was nothing to keep our
comedy alive on its merits; neither, with all its realism, true
portraiture, nor much quotable fun, nor idea; neither salt nor soul.

The French have a school of stately comedy to which they can fly for
renovation whenever they have fallen away from it; and their having
such a school is mainly the reason why, as John Stuart Mill pointed
out, they know men and women more accurately than we do. Moliere
followed the Horatian precept, to observe the manners of his age and
give his characters the colour befitting them at the time. He did not
paint in raw realism. He seized his characters firmly for the central
purpose of the play, stamped them in the idea, and by slightly raising
and softening the object of study (as in the case of the ex-Huguenot,
Duke de Montausier, {3} for the study of the Misanthrope, and,
according to St.

Simon, the Abbe Roquette for Tartuffe), generalized upon it so as to make
it permanently human. Concede that it is natural for human creatures
to live in society, and Alceste is an imperishable mark of one, though
he is drawn in light outline, without any forcible human colouring. Our
English school has not clearly imagined society; and of the mind
hovering above congregated men and women, it has imagined nothing.

The critics who praise it for its downrightness, and for bringing
the situations home to us, as they admiringly say, cannot but
disapprove of Moliere's comedy, which appeals to the individual mind to
perceive and participate in the social. We have splendid tragedies,
we have the most beautiful of poetic plays, and we have literary
comedies passingly pleasant to read, and occasionally to see acted. By
literary comedies, I mean comedies of classic inspiration, drawn chiefly
from Menander and the Greek New Comedy through Terence; or else comedies
of the poet's personal conception, that have had no model in life, and
are humorous exaggerations, happy or otherwise.

These are the comedies of Ben Jonson, Massinger, and Fletcher. Massinger's
Justice Greedy we can all of us refer to a type, 'with fat capon lined'
that has been and will be; and he would be comic, as Panurge is comic,
but only a Rabelais could set him moving with real animation. Probably
Justice Greedy would be comic to the audience of a country booth and to
some of our friends. If we have lost our youthful relish for the
presentation of characters put together to fit a type, we find
it hard to put together the mechanism of a civil smile at his enumeration
of his dishes.

Something of the same is to be said of Bobadil, swearing 'by the foot of
Pharaoh'; with a reservation, for he is made to move faster, and to
act. The comic of Jonson is a scholar's excogitation of the comic;
that of Massinger a moralist's.

Shakespeare is a well-spring of characters which are saturated with
the comic spirit; with more of what we will call blood-life than
is to be found anywhere out of Shakespeare; and they are of this
world, but they are of the world enlarged to our embrace by
imagination, and by great poetic imagination.

They are, as it were--I put it to suit my present comparison--creatures
of the woods and wilds, not in walled towns, not grouped and toned to
pursue a comic exhibition of the narrower world of society.

Jaques, Falstaff and his regiment, the varied troop of Clowns, Malvolio,
Sir Hugh Evans and Fluellen--marvellous Welshmen!--Benedict and
Beatrice, Dogberry, and the rest, are subjects of a special
study in the poetically comic.

His Comedy of incredible imbroglio belongs to the literary section. One
may conceive that there was a natural resemblance between him
and Menander, both in the scheme and style of his lighter plays.
Had Shakespeare lived in a later and less emotional, less heroical
period of our history, he might have turned to the painting of manners
as well as humanity. Euripides would probably, in the time of Menander,
when Athens was enslaved but prosperous, have lent his hand to the
composition of romantic comedy. He certainly inspired that fine
genius.

Politically it is accounted a misfortune for France that her nobles
thronged to the Court of Louis Quatorze. It was a boon to the comic poet.
He had that lively quicksilver world of the animalcule passions, the
huge pretensions, the placid absurdities, under his eyes in full
activity; vociferous quacks and snapping dupes, hypocrites, posturers,
extravagants, pedants, rose-pink ladies and mad grammarians,
sonneteering marquises, high-flying mistresses, plain-minded maids,
inter-threading as in a loom, noisy as at a fair. A simply
bourgeois circle will not furnish it, for the middle class must have
the brilliant, flippant, independent upper for a spur and a pattern;
otherwise it is likely to be inwardly dull as well as outwardly
correct.

Yet, though the King was benevolent toward Moliere, it is not to
the French Court that we are indebted for his unrivalled studies of mankind
in society. For the amusement of the Court the ballets and farces were
written, which are dearer to the rabble upper, as to the rabble lower,
class than intellectual comedy. The French bourgeoisie of Paris were
sufficiently quick-witted and enlightened by education to welcome great
works like Le Tartuffe, Les Femmes Savantes, and Le Misanthrope,
works that were perilous ventures on the popular intelligence, big vessels
to launch on streams running to shallows. The Tartuffe hove into
view as an enemy's vessel; it offended, not _Dieu mais les devots_,
as the Prince de Conde explained the cabal raised against it to the
King.

The Femmes Savantes is a capital instance of the uses of comedy in
teaching the world to understand what ails it. The farce of the
Precieuses ridiculed and put a stop to the monstrous romantic jargon made
popular by certain famous novels. The comedy of the Femmes Savantes exposed
the later and less apparent but more finely comic absurdity of an
excessive purism in grammar and diction, and the tendency to be idiotic
in precision.

The French had felt the burden of this new nonsense; but they had to see
the comedy several times before they were consoled in their suffering by
seeing the cause of it exposed.

The Misanthrope was yet more frigidly received. Moliere thought it
dead.
'I cannot improve on it, and assuredly never shall,' he said. It is one
of the French titles to honour that this quintessential comedy of the
opposition of Alceste and Celimene was ultimately understood and
applauded. In all countries the middle class presents the public which,
fighting the world, and with a good footing in the fight, knows the
world best.

It may be the most selfish, but that is a question leading us into
sophistries. Cultivated men and women, who do not skim the cream of
life, and are attached to the duties, yet escape the harsher blows,
make acute and balanced observers. Moliere is their poet.

Of this class in England, a large body, neither Puritan nor
Bacchanalian, have a sentimental objection to face the study of the
actual world.

They take up disdain of it, when its truths appear humiliating: when the
facts are not immediately forced on them, they take up the pride of
incredulity. They live in a hazy atmosphere that they suppose an ideal
one. Humorous writing they will endure, perhaps approve, if it mingles
with pathos to shake and elevate the feelings. They approve of Satire,
because, like the beak of the vulture, it smells of carrion, which they
are not. But of Comedy they have a shivering dread, for Comedy enfolds
them with the wretched host of the world, huddles them with us all in
an ignoble assimilation, and cannot be used by any exalted variety
as a scourge and a broom.

Nay, to be an exalted variety is to come under the calm curious eye of
the Comic spirit, and be probed for what you are. Men are seen among
them, and very many cultivated women. You may distinguish them by a
favourite phrase: 'Surely we are not so bad!' and the remark:
'If that is human nature, save us from it!' as if it could be done:
but in the peculiar Paradise of the wilful people who will not see, the
exclamation assumes the saving grace.

Yet should you ask them whether they dislike sound sense, they vow
they do not.

And question cultivated women whether it pleases them to be shown
moving on an intellectual level with men, they will answer that
it does; numbers of them claim the situation. Now, Comedy is the
fountain of sound sense; not the less perfectly sound on account of
the sparkle:
and Comedy lifts women to a station offering them free play for their
wit, as they usually show it, when they have it, on the side of sound
sense. The higher the Comedy, the more prominent the part they enjoy
in it. Dorine in the Tartuffe is common-sense incarnate, though palpably
a waiting-maid. Celimene is undisputed mistress of the same attribute
in the Misanthrope; wiser as a woman than Alceste as man. In Congreve's
Way of the World, Millamant overshadows Mirabel, the sprightliest male
figure of English comedy.

But those two ravishing women, so copious and so choice of speech, who
fence with men and pass their guard, are heartless! Is it not preferable
to be the pretty idiot, the passive beauty, the adorable bundle of
caprices, very feminine, very sympathetic, of romantic and sentimental
fiction? Our women are taught to think so. The Agnes of the Ecole
des Femmes should be a lesson for men. The heroines of Comedy are like
women of the world, not necessarily heartless from being clear-sighted:
they seem so to the sentimentally-reared only for the reason that
they use their wits, and are not wandering vessels crying for a captain
or a pilot. Comedy is an exhibition of their battle with men, and that
of men with them: and as the two, however divergent, both look on
one object, namely, Life, the gradual similarity of their impressions
must bring them to some resemblance.

The Comic poet dares to show us men and women coming to this mutual
likeness; he is for saying that when they draw together in social
life their minds grow liker; just as the philosopher discerns the
similarity of boy and girl, until the girl is marched away to the
nursery. Philosopher and Comic poet are of a cousinship in the eye they
cast on life: and they are equally unpopular with our wilful English
of the hazy region and the ideal that is not to be disturbed.

Thus, for want of instruction in the Comic idea, we lose a large audience
among our cultivated middle class that we should expect to support
Comedy. The sentimentalist is as averse as the Puritan and as the
Bacchanalian.

Our traditions are unfortunate. The public taste is with the idle laughers,
and still inclines to follow them. It may be shown by an analysis of
Wycherley's Plain Dealer, a coarse prose adaption of the Misanthrope,
stuffed with lumps of realism in a vulgarized theme to hit the mark
of English appetite, that we have in it the keynote of the Comedy
of our stage. It is Moliere travestied, with the hoof to his foot
and hair on the pointed tip of his ear. And how difficult it is for
writers to disentangle themselves from bad traditions is noticeable
when we find Goldsmith, who had grave command of the Comic in
narrative, producing an elegant farce for a Comedy; and Fielding,
who was a master of the Comic both in narrative and in dialogue,
not even approaching to the presentable in farce.

These bad traditions of Comedy affect us not only on the stage, but
in our literature, and may be tracked into our social life.
Foster, he
dreaded, lest this subdued, yet fortified mind, should be disturbed by
the jealousies to which our worldly condition is prone: he trembled lest
the sorrow of separation from a world which Lord Kilmarnock had loved
too fondly, should be revived by the pardon of his friend. "Therefore,"
relates Mr. Foster, "in the morning before I waited upon him, I prepared
myself to quiet and mollify his mind. But one of the first things he
said to me was, that he was extremely glad that the King's mercy had
been shown to Lord Cromartie." "My Lord," inquired Mr. Foster, "I hope
you do not think you have any injustice shown you?" Lord Kilmarnock's
answer was, "Not in the least; I have pleaded guilty: I entirely
acquiesce in the justice of my sentence; and if mercy be extended to
another, I can have no reason to complain, when nothing but justice is
done to me."

With regard to some points upon which the public odium was directed to
the young Chevalier and his party, Lord Kilmarnock was very explicit in
his last conversations with Mr. Foster. We have already seen how far he
was enabled to clear himself concerning his conduct to the prisoners at
Inverness. A report having been industriously circulated, probably with
a view to excuse the barbarities of the Duke of Cumberland, that an
order had been issued in the Pretender's council at Inverness, to
destroy the prisoners who might be taken at the battle of Culloden, Mr.
Foster put the question to Lord Kilmarnock, Whether that statement were
true? "I can most sincerely and freely answer, No," was the satisfactory
reply; and a similar contradiction was given by the dying man to every
accusation of a similar tendency.[382]

On Monday the eleventh of August, General Williamson desired Mr. Foster,
"in the gentlest terms that he could use, to apprize Lord Kilmarnock,
that he had received the order for his, and for Lord Balmerino's
execution." Mr. Foster at first refused to undertake this office. "I was
so shocked at it," writes the good man "that I could not think of
delivering the message myself, but would endeavour to prepare the
unfortunate Lord for it, by divesting him, as far as I could, of all
hope of life." Such, indeed, had been the continual aim of all the
reverend minister's counsels; and he had hoped to entrust the last
mournful task of informing him of the order to other hands. On finding
Lord Kilmarnock in a very resigned and calm state of mind, he ventured,
however, to hint to him how necessary was that diligent and constant
preparation for death which he had endeavoured to impress upon his mind.
This was sufficient: the ill-fated prisoner immediately inquired,
"whether the warrant for his execution was come down?" "I told him that
it was," relates Mr. Foster, "and that the day fixed upon was the
following Monday."

Lord Kilmarnock received this intimation with a solemn consciousness of
the awful nature of its import; but no signs of terror nor of anxiety
added to the sorrows of that hour. In the course of conversation, he
observed to Mr. Foster, that "he was chiefly concerned about the
consequences of death, in comparison of which he considered the 'thing
itself' a trifle: with regard to the manner of his death he had, he
thought, no great reason to be terrified, for that the stroke appeared
to be scarcely so much as the drawing of a tooth, or the first shock of
a cold bath upon a weak and fearful temper." At the last hour,
nevertheless, the crowd,--the scaffold,--the doom, upset that sublime
and heavenly resignation,--the weakness of the flesh prevailed, although
only for an instant.

