  If the young gentleman in the drawing buttons
his overcoat he may succeed in being statuesque, though that I
doubt very strongly, but he will never succeed in being swift; his
super-totus is made for him on no principle whatsoever; a super-
totus, or overall, should be capable of being worn long or short,
quite loose or moderately tight, just as the wearer wishes; he
should be able to have one arm free and one arm covered or both
arms free or both arms covered, just as he chooses for his
convenience in riding, walking, or driving; an overall again should
never be heavy, and should always be warm:  lastly, it should be
capable of being easily carried if one wants to take it off; in
fact, its principles are those of freedom and comfort, and a cloak
realizes them all, just as much as an overcoat of the pattern
suggested by Mr. EVEN AS I PONDERED WHETHER I SHOULD EAT OUR LAST CRUST THE EVER-KIND
ABBÉ CALLED TO SAY HE HAD FOUND THEE A HIGHLY-PAID APPOINTMENT AT
COURT."

_Son._ "YES--BUT DID HE TELL YOU IT WAS AS FOOD-TASTER TO HIS MAJESTY,
WHO DAILY EXPECTS TO BE POISONED?"
The
Elections are now nearing an end, and it is possible to summarise
the results. It is not surprising that our opponents should be
reduced to the lowest depths of despair. They counted with the
utmost certainty on a majority of two hundred.
In the seventeenth century the skirt of the
jacket was sometimes laced on by points and tags, so that it could
be removed at will, sometimes it was merely left open at the sides:
in each case it exemplified what are always the true principles of
dress, I mean freedom and adaptability to circumstances.

Finally, as regards drawings of this kind, I would point out that
there is absolutely no limit at all to the amount of "passably
picturesque" costumes which can be either revived or invented for
us; but that unless a costume is founded on principles and
exemplified laws, it never can be of any real value to us in the
reform of dress.  I will only add that Miss EASTON has not a
majority mind, that she sees the sad thing more easily than the
gay, that I like her work best in her more objective moods, and that,
like so many writers of perception, she finds the quintessence of
England's beauty in happy Sussex
Now here, on the other hand, is a dress which, being founded on
principles, can serve us as an excellent guide and model; it has
been drawn for me, most kindly, by Mr. Godwin from the Duke of
Newcastle's delightful book on horsemanship, a book which is one of
our best authorities on our best era of costume.  I do not of
course propose it necessarily for absolute imitation; that is not
the way in which one should regard it; it is not, I mean, a revival
of a dead costume, but a realization of living laws.  I give it as
an example of a particular application of principles which are
universally right.  This rationally dressed young man can turn his
hat brim down if it rains, and his loose trousers and boots down if
he is tired--that is, he can adapt his costume to circumstances;
then he enjoys perfect freedom, the arms and legs are not made
awkward or uncomfortable by the excessive tightness of narrow
sleeves and knee-breeches, and the hips are left quite
untrammelled, always an important point; and as regards comfort,
his jacket is not too loose for warmth, nor too close for
respiration; his neck is well protected without being strangled,
and even his ostrich feathers, if any Philistine should object to
them, are not merely dandyism, but fan him very pleasantly, I am
sure, in summer, and when the weather is bad they are no doubt left
at home, and his cloak taken out.  They may prate of the pleasures
of "early purl," Of the frizzled rasher's seductive curl, But,
when I fear I can munch no more, When the thought of banquets becomes
a bore, Roe, Bloater's Roe, upon toast they cast, And nausea's fled,
and repletion's past!