The House of Life

by Dante Gabriel Rossetti


Part I. YOUTH AND CHANGE


INTRODUCTORY SONNET

A Sonnet is a moment's monument,--
Memorial from the Soul's eternity
To one dead deathless hour. Look that it be,
Whether for lustral rite or dire portent,
Of its own arduous fulness reverent:
Carve it in ivory or in ebony,
As Day or Night may rule; and let Time see
Its flowering crest impearled and orient.

A Sonnet is a coin: its face reveals
The soul,--its converse, to what Power 'tis due:--
Whether for tribute to the august appeals
Of Life, or dower in Love's high retinue,
It serve; or, 'mid the dark wharf's cavernous breath,
In Charon's palm it pay the toll to Death.
LOVE ENTHRONED


I marked all kindred Powers the heart finds fair:--
Truth, with awed lips; and Hope, with eyes upcast;
And Fame, whose loud wings fan the ashen Past
To signal-fires, Oblivion's flight to scare;
And Youth, with still some single golden hair
Unto his shoulder clinging, since the last
Embrace wherein two sweet arms held him fast;
And Life, still wreathing flowers for Death to wear.

Love's throne was not with these; but far above
All passionate wind of welcome and farewell
He sat in breathless bowers they dream not of;
Though Truth foreknow Love's heart, and Hope foretell,
And Fame be for Love's sake desirable,
And Youth be dear, and Life be sweet to Love.BRIDAL BIRTH


As when desire, long darkling, dawns, and first
The mother looks upon the new-born child,
Even so my Lady stood at gaze and smiled
When her soul knew at length the Love it nursed.
Born with her life, creature of poignant thirst
And exquisite hunger, at her heart Love lay
Quickening in darkness, till a voice that day
Cried on him, and the bonds of birth were burst.

Now, shielded in his wings, our faces yearn
Together, as his fullgrown feet now range
The grove, and his warm hands our couch prepare:
Till to his song our bodiless souls in turn
Be born his children, when Death's nuptial change
Leaves us for light the halo of his hair.

* * * * *

FRANCIS DUC DE ROCHEFOUCAULD.
1613-1680.

_Maxim ccxvii_.

Hypocrisy is a sort of homage that vice pays
to virtue.

* * * * *

JOSEPH FOUCHE.
1763-1820.

It was worse than a crime, it was a blunder.

* * * * *

MISCELLANEOUS.

"_The blood of the martyrs is the seed of the
Church_."
"Plures efficimur, quoties metimur a vobis; semen
est sanguis Christianorum." _Tertullian_ _Apologet_.,
c. 50.

* * * * *
"_Corporations have no souls_."
"They (Corporations) cannot commit trespass nor
be outlawed nor excommunicate, for
they have no souls."--_Lord Coke's
Reports_ Part x. p. 32.

* * * * *
"_A Rowland for an Oliver_."
"These were two of the most famous in the
list of Charlemagne's twelve peers; and their
exploits are rendered so ridiculously
and equally extravagant by the old romancers that from thence arose
that saying among our plain and sensible ancestors of giving one a
'Rowland for his Oliver,' to signify the matching one incredible
lie with another."

--_Warburton_.

* * * * *
"It is unseasonable and unwholesome in all
months that have not an R in their name
to eat an oyster."--_Butler's Dyet's Dry
Dinner_, 1599.

* * * * *
"_Hobson's Choice_."
"Tobias Hobson was the first man in England
that let out hackney horses.--When a man
came for a horse he was led into the stable, where
there was a great choice, but he obliged him to take the horse
which stood next to the stable door; so that every customer was
alike well served according to his chance, from whence it became a
proverb when what ought to be your election was forced upon you,
to say 'Hobson's Choice.'"

--_Spectator_, No. 509.

ADDENDA.

* * * * *

SHAKESPEARE.

_Measure for Measure_. Act v. Sc. 1.

My business in this state Made me a looker on here
in Vienna.

_King Henry VI_. Part i. Act i, Sc. 1.

Hung be the heavens with black
* * * * *

MILTON.
Sonnet xi. _To Cromwell_.

Peace hath her victories No less renowned than war

.

* * * * *

GEORGE HERBERT.

_The Elixir_.

A servant with this clause Makes drudgery
divine; Who sweeps a room as for thy laws.
Makes that and the action fine.

SAMUEL BUTLER

_Hudibras_. P. ii. C. i. Line 843.

Love is a boy by poets styled; Then spare the
rod and spoil the child.

* * * * *

JAMES THOMSON.

_Seasons_. _Winter_, Line 625.

The kiss snatched hasty from the sidelong
maid.

WILLIAM WORDSWORTH

_Tintern Abbey_.

Knowing that Nature never did betray The
heart that loved her.

INDEX
Abundance, every one that hath Accidents by flood and field Accoutred
as I was Aching void Action, suit the, to the word Actions of the
just --like almanacs Acts, little nameless Ada, sole daughter of
my house Adam, whipped the offending --dolve and Eve span --the son
of, and of Eve Adversary, that mine, had written a book Adversity,
sweet the uses of Adversity's sweet milk Affection's mild Age, my,
is as a lusty winter --, be comfort to my --cannot wither her --,
he was not of an --, for talking --, shakes Athena's tower --,
mirror to a gaping --, you'd scarce expect one of my Ages, alike
all --, three poets in three distant Agree, where they do Air is
full of farewells Airy nothing a local habitation --tongues Aisle
and fretted vault Alabaster, like his grandsire cut in All things,
prove --things to all men --things that are, are chased --that's
bright must fade Allegory, headstrong as an Almanacs like actions
of the last age Almighty Dollar Alms, when thou doest Alone, not
good that man should be --, they are never, when with noble thoughts
Alpha and Omega Alps on Alps arise Altars, strike for your Ambition,
vaulting --should be made of sterner stuff --, to reign is worth
Angel, she drew down an --, a guardian, she Angel, recording Angels
unawares --, make the, weep --trumpet-tongued --and ministers of
grace --face shined bright --till our passion dies --are painted
fair to look like you --, holy, guard thy bed --wake thee Angels'
visits, short and bright --short and far between Angel-visits, few
and far between Anger of his lip --more in sorrow than in Angry,
be ye, and sin not Anguish, pain is lessened by another's --,
hopeless, poured his groan Annals of the poor Anointed, rail on the
Lord's Answer, a soft, turneth away wrath Anthem, pealing Antidote,
sweet oblivious Anything, for what is worth in Apostles fled, she
when Apostolic blows and knocks Apothecary, civet, good Apparel,
proclaims the man Apparitions seen and gone Appearance, judge not
by Appetite, good digestion wait on Appetite, cloy the hungry ed
are of --, to breakfast with what --grown by what it fed on Applaud
these to the very echo Apple of his eye Appliances and means to
boot Apollo's lute, musical as Apollos watered Apprehension of the
good April, June, and November Arch of London bridge Argue, though
vanquished, he could Argues yourselves unknown Argument, staple of
his Armor, his honest thought Arms, take your last embrace Arrows,
Cupid kills with Art, adorning thee with so much --grace beyond the
reach of --, ease in writing comes from --, than all the gloss of
--is long Artaxerxes' throne Arts and eloquence, mother of Asbourne,
down thy hill, romantic Ashes to ashes --, e'en in our Askelon,
publish it not in the streets of Ask, and it shall be given you
Asleep, the houses seem Ass, write me down an Assurance double sure
Athens, the eye of Greece Atlantean shoulders Attempt, and not the
deed, confounds Audience, and attention drew Audience fit, though
few Auld acquaintance Authority, a little brief Awake, arise, for
ever fallen Awe, in, of such a thing as I Ax, laid to the root

Babe, bent o'er her Babel, stir of the great Bachelor, when I said
I should die a Backing, a plague upon such Bacon shined, think haw
Badge of our tribe Balances, thou art weighed in the Ballad to his
mistress' eyebrow Ballad-mongers, one of these same meter Ballads
sung from a cart --of a people, write the Balloon, huge Bank, I
know a Banner, star-spangled Banners, hang out our Banquet's o'er
when the Barren, 't is all Battalions, not single, but in Battle,
mighty fallen in --not to the strong --and the breeze --, perilous
edge of --, freedom's, once began Battles, fought his, o'er again
Battle's magnificently stern array Battlements, bore stars Be-all,
this blow might to the Bear, like the Turk Bears and lions grow!

Beaumont, lie a little nearer Spenser Beauties
of the North --reveal while she hides Beautiful,
she's --, as sweet Beauty truly blent
--in his life --smiling in her tears --, fills
the air around with --, lines where, lingers
--, she walks in --, a thing of Beaux, where none are Bedfellows,
strange Beer, chronicle small Bee, how doth the little busy Bees,
innumerable Beetle, that we tread on Beggar, dumb, may challenge
double pity Beggary in the love Bell, silence that dreadful --,
sullen, sounds as a Bell, church-going Belle, 't is vain to be a
Dells jangled, out of tune Bent, fool me to the top of my Bezonian?

under which king Bigness which you see Bird
of dawning --that shunn'st the noise of folly Birth is
but a sleep Black spirits and white --to
red began to turn Blackberries, if reasons were as plenty
as Bladder, blows a man up like a Blessed, more, to
give Blessings brighten as they take
their flight --on him who invented sleep
Blest, man never is, but always to be Blind, eyes to the Blind,
if the blind lead the Bliss gained by every woe --, virtue makes
the --, domestic happiness, thou only --, winged hours of Blood,
whoso sheddeth man's --, hot and rebellious liquors in my --, her
pure and eloquent --, felt in the --of the martyrs Blot, which dying
he could wish to Blow, might be the be-all Blow, every hand that
dealt the --, themselves must strike the Blunder, frae mony a --,
worse than a crime Boast, the patriot's Boatman, take thrice thy
fee Boats, little, should keep near shore Body, absent in --form
doth fake --, would almost say her, thought Bond, nominated in the
--, 't is not in the Bondman, who would he a Bondsmen, hereditary
Bone and skin, two millers thin Bones, full of dead men's Bononcini,
compared to Booby, who'd give her for another Book, that mine
adversary has written a --, your face is as a --'s a book Books,
making of, no end --in the running brooks --, wiser grow without
his --cannot always please --, quit your --which are no --some to
be tasted Bores and bored Born lowly, better to be Borrower nor
lender be Bosom, cleanse the stuffed --'s lord sits lightly Bosom
of his Father and his God Boston, solid men of Botanize upon his
mother's grave Bounds of modesty Bounty, large was his Bourbon or
Nassau Bourne, no traveler returns Bow, two strings to his Bowl,
mingles with my friendly Boxes, a beggarly account of Boy, once
more who would not be a Braggart, with, my tongue Brain, raze out
the written troubles of the --, very coinage of your Brains, steal
away their Brass, evil manners live in Brave, how sleep the --, on,
ye --, home of the Breach, more honored in the Bread upon the waters
Breakfast with what appetite Breast, light within his own clear --,
eternal in the human Breastplate, what stronger Breath can make
them --, weary of Breathes there the man with soul so dead Brevity
is the soul of wit Bridge of Sighs Briers, this working-day world
is full of Brightest and best of the sons of the morning Britannia
rules the waves --needs no bulwarks Britons never will be slaves
Brook, noise like a hidden Brooks, hooks in the funning Brotherhood,
monastic Brow, when pain and anguish wring the Braised reed Brutus
is an honorable man Bubbles, the earth hath Bucket, as a drop of a
--, the old oaken Bucks had dined Bug, snug as a Build, he lives
to Burden, the grasshopper a --, bear his own Burning, one fire
burns out another's Bush, good wine needs no --, the thief doth
tear each Butterfly upon a wheel
Cabined, cribbed, confined Caesar, not that I loved, less --hath
went --, tongue in every wound of --dead and turned to clay Cain
the first city made Cage, nor iron bars a Cake is dough Cakes and
ale Caledonia, stern and wild Calf's-skin on those recreant limbs
Calumny, thon shalt not escape Camel, swallow a --through the eye
of a needle Can such things be Candle throws his beams --out, brief
--, fit to hold a --hold, to the sun Canon against self-slaughter
Canopied by the blue sky Carcass is, there will the eagles be Card,
we must speak by the Care adds a nail to our coffin --, knits up
the ravelled sleave of --is an enemy to life Cares, fret thy soul
with --beguiled by sports --dividing Cart, now traversed the Casca,
the envious Cassius, darest thou leap Cast, set my life upon a Cat
in the adage --will mew --, endow a college or a Cataract, the
sounding Cataracts, silent Cathay, cycle of Cato, big with the fate
of Caucasus, thinking on the frosty Cause, hear me for my Caution,
cold pausing Cave, they enter the darksome Caviare to the general
Celestial, rosy-red Chaff, hid in two bushels of Chalice, the
ingredients of our poisoned Chamber where the good man meets his
fate Chance that oft decides the fate of monarchs --to fall below
Demosthenes or Cicero Chances, most disastrous Chaos is come again
Charge, Chester, charge Chapel, the devil builds a Charities that
soothe Charity shall cover the multitude of sins Charm, no need of
a remoter Charmer, t' other dear, away Charmers sinner it Charybdis,
your mother Chasteneth, whom the Lord loveth, he Chatham's language
Chatterton, marvelous boy Chaucer, nigh to learned Cheated, pleasure
of being Cheek, feed on her damask --, that I might touch, that
--upon her hand --, he that loves a rosy Cheek, iron tears down
Pluto's --, the roses from your Cheer, be of good Cheese, moon made
of green Cherry, like to a double Chickens, all my pretty --, count
your, ere they are hatched Child, train up a --, I spake as a --,
a wise father that knows his own --, to have a thankless --, a
simple, that lightly draws its breath --is father of the man --, a
curious --, a three years --, spoil the Childhood, days of my
Childhood's hour Childishness, second Children of this world --of
light --gathering pebbles --of larger growth Children's sports
satisfy the child Chin, some bee had stung China fall Chinks that
time has made Christ, for me to live is Church, built God a
Church-going bell Church, who builds to God a Churchdoor, not so
wide as a Churchyards yawn Cities, far from gay City sec upon a
hill Civet, good apothecary Clapper-clawing Classic ground Clay,
o'er informed the tenement of --, blind his soul with Cloud out of
the sea --capped towers --, overcome us like a summer's --, sable
--but serves to brighten Cloy the edge of appetite Coach, go call
a Coals of fire on his head Coat, he used to wear a long black
Coats, if there's a hole in a' your Coil shuffled off this mortal
College, die and endow a Cologne, wash your city of Colossus,
bestride the world like a Column, throws up a steamy Combat deepens
Combination and a form indeed Come live with me Come what come may
Comforters, miserable Coming events Commentators, each dark passage
shun --, plain Communion sweet, quaff Companions, I have had
Comparisons are odorous --are odious Compass, a narrow Compulsion,
give you a reason on Concealment, like a worm in the bud Conceals,
the maid who modestly Conceits, be not wise in your own Conclusion,
most lame and impotent --, denoted a foregone Concord of sweet
sounds Confirmations strong Conflict, dire was the noise of Conclusion,
worse confounded Congregate, merchants most do Conjectures.

What of that hour at last, when for her sake
No wing may fly to me nor song may flow;
When, wandering round my life unleaved, I
The bloodied feathers scattered in the brake,
And think how she, far from me, with like eyes
Sees through the untuneful bough the wingless skies?MID - RAPTURE


Thou lovely and beloved, thou my love;
Whose kiss seems still the first; whose summoning eyes,
Even now, as for our love-world's new sunrise,
Shed very dawn; whose voice, attuned above
All modulation of the deep-bowered dove,
Is like a hand laid softly on the soul;
Whose hand is like a sweet voice to control
Those worn tired brows it hath the keeping of:--

What word can answer to thy word,--what gaze
To thine, which now absorbs within its sphere
My worshipping face, till I am mirrored there
Light-circled in a heaven of deep-drawn rays?
What clasp, what kiss mine inmost heart can prove,
0 lovely and beloved, 0 my love?HEART'S COMPASS


Sometimes thou seem'st not as thyself alone,
But as the meaning of all things that are;
A breathless wonder, shadowing forth afar
Some heavenly solstice hushed and halcyon;
Whose unstirred lips are music's visible tone;
Whose eyes the sun-gate of the soul unbar,
Being of its furthest fires oracular;--
The evident heart of all life sown and mown.

Even such Love is; and is not thy name Love?
Yea, by thy hand the Love-god rends apart
All gathering clouds of Night's ambiguous art;
Flings them far down, and sets thine eyes above;
And simply, as some gage of flower or glove,
Stakes with a smile the world against thy heart.SOUL-LIGHT


What other woman could be loved like you,
Or how of you should love possess his fill?
After the fulness of all rapture, still,--
As at the end of some deep avenue
A tender glamour of day,--there comes to view
Far in your eyes a yet more hungering thrill,--
Such fire as Love's soul-winnowing hands distil
Even from his inmost arc of light and dew.

And as the traveller triumphs with the sun,
Glorying in heat's mid-height, yet startide brings
Wonder new-born, and still fresh transport springs
From limpid lambent hours of day begun;--
Even so, through eyes and voice, your soul doth move
My soul with changeful light of infinite love.THE MOONSTAR

Lady, I thank thee for thy loveliness,
Because my lady is more lovely still.
Glorying I gaze, and yield with glad goodwill
To thee thy tribute; by whose sweet-spun dress
Of delicate life Love labours to assess
My Lady's absolute queendom; saying, 'Lo!
How high this beauty is, which yet doth show
But as that beauty's sovereign votaress.'

Lady, I saw thee with her, side by side;
And as, when night's fair fires their queen surround,
An emulous star too near the moon will ride,--
Even so thy rays within her luminous bound
Were traced no more; and by the light so drown'd,
Lady, not thou but she was glorified.LAST FIRE


Love, through your spirit and mine what summer eve
Now glows with glory of all things possess'd,
Since this day's sun of rapture filled the west
And the light sweetened as the fire took leave?
Awhile now softlier let your bosom heave,
As in Love's harbour, even that loving breast,
All care takes refuge while we sink to rest,
And mutual dreams the bygone bliss retrieve.

Many the days that Winter keeps in store,
Sunless throughout, or whose brief sun-glimpses
Scarce shed the heaped snow through the naked trees.
This day at least was Summer's paramour,
Sun-coloured to the imperishable core
With sweet well-being of love and full heart's ease.HER GIFTS

High grace, the dower of queens; and therewithal
Some wood-born wonder's sweet simplicity;
A glance like water brimming with the sky
Or hyacinth-light where forest-shadows fall;
Such thrilling pallor of cheek as doth enthral
The heart; a mouth whose passionate forms imply
All music and all silence held thereby;
Deep golden locks, her sovereign coronal;
A round reared neck, meet column of Love's shrine
To cling to when the heart takes sanctuary;
Hands which for ever at Love's bidding be,
And soft-stirred feet still answering to his sign:--
These are her gifts, as tongue may tell them o'er.
Breathe low her name, my soul; for that means more.EQUAL TROTH


Not by one measure mayst thou mete our love;
For how should I be loved as I love thee?--
I, graceless, joyless, lacking absolutely
 All gifts that with thy queenship best behove;--
Thou, throned in every heart's elect alcove,
And crowned with garlands culled from every tree,
Which for no head but thine, by Love's decree,
All beauties and all mysteries interwove.

But here thine eyes and lips yield soft rebuke:--
'Then only,' (say'st thou), 'could I love thee less,
When thou couldst doubt my love's equality.'
Peace, sweet! If not to sum but worth we look,
Thy heart's transcendence, not my heart's excess,
Then more a thousandfold thou lov'st than I.VENUS VICTRIX


Could Juno's self more sovereign presence wear
Than thou, 'mid other ladies throned in grace?--
Or Pallas, when thou bend'st with soul-stilled face
O'er poet's page gold-shadowed in thy hair?
Dost thou than Venus seem less heavenly fair
When o'er the sea of love's tumultuous trance
Hovers thy smile, and mingles with thy glance
That sweet voice like the last wave murmuring there?

Before such triune loveliness divine
Awestruck I ask, which goddess here most claims
The prize that, howsoe'er adjudged, is thine?
Then Love breathes low the sweetest of thy names;
And Venus Victrix to my heart doth bring
Herself, the Helen of her guerdoning.THE DARK GLASS


Not I myself know all my love for thee:
How should I reach so far, who cannot weigh
To-morrow's dower by gage of yesterday?
Shall birth and death, and all dark names that be
As doors and windows bared to some loud sea,
Lash deaf mine ears and blind my face with spray;
And shall my sense pierce love,--the last relay
And ultimate outpost of eternity?

Lo! what am I to Love, the lord of all?
One murmuring shell he gathers from the sand,--
One little heart-flame sheltered in his hand.
Yet through thine eyes he grants me clearest call
And veriest touch of powers primordial
That any hour-girt life may understand.THE LAMP'S SHRINE


Sometimes I fain would find in thee some fault,
That I might love thee still in spite of it:
Yet how should our Lord Love curtail one whit
Thy perfect praise whom most he would exalt?
Alas! he can but make my heart's low vault
Even in men's sight unworthier, being lit
By thee, who thereby show'st more exquisite
Like fiery chrysoprase in deep basalt.

Yet will I nowise shrink; but at Love's shrine
Myself within the beams his brow doth dart
Will set the flashing jewel of thy heart
In that dull chamber where it deigns to shine:
For lo! in honour of thine excellencies
My heart takes pride to show how poor it is.LIFE - IN - LOVE

Not in thy body is thy life at all
But in this lady's lips and hands and eyes;
Through these she yields the life that vivifies
What else were sorrow's servant and death's thrall.
Look on thyself without her, and recall
The waste remembrance and forlorn surmise
That lived but in a dead-drawn breath of sighs
O'er vanished hours and hours eventual.

Even so much life hath the poor tress of hair
Which, stored apart, is all love hath to show
For heart-beats and for fire-heats long ago;
Even so much life endures unknown, even where,
'Mid change the changeless night environeth,
Lies all that golden hair undimmed in death.THE LOVE- MOON


'When that dead face, bowered in the furthest years,
Which once was all the life years held for thee,
Can now scarce bide the tides of memory
Cast on thy soul a little spray of tears,--
How canst thou gaze into these eyes of hers
Whom now thy heart delights in, and not see
Within each orb Love's philtred euphrasy
Make them of buried troth remembrancers?'

'Nay, pitiful Love, nay, loving Pity! Well
Thou knowest that in these twain I have confess'd
Two very voices of thy summoning bell.
Nay, Master, shall not Death make manifest
In these the culminant changes which approve
The love-moon that must light my soul to Love?'THE MORROW'S MESSAGE


'Thou Ghost,' I said, 'and is thy name To-day?--
Yesterday's son, with such an abject brow!--
And can To-morrow be more pale than thou?'
While yet I spoke, the silence answered: 'Yea,
Henceforth our issue is all grieved and grey,
And each beforehand makes such poor avow
As of old leaves beneath the budding bough
Or night-drift that the sundawn shreds away.'

Then cried I: 'Mother of many malisons,
0 Earth, receive me to thy dusty bed!'
But therewithal the tremulous silence said:
'Lo! Love yet bids thy lady greet thee once:--
Yea, twice,- whereby thy life is still the sun's;
And thrice, -- whereby the shadow of death is dead.'SLEEPLESS DREAMS


Girt in dark growths, yet glimmering with one star,
0 night desirous as the nights of youth!
Why should my heart within thy spell, forsooth,
Now beat, as the bride's finger-pulses are
Quickened within the girdling golden bar?
What wings are these that fan my pillow smooth?
And why does Sleep, waved back by Joy and Ruth,
Tread softly round and gaze at me from far?

Nay, night deep-leaved! And would Love feign in thee
Some shadowy palpitating grove that bears
Rest for man's eyes and music for his ears?
0 lonely night! art thou not known to me,
A thicket hung with masks of mockery
And watered with the wasteful warmth of tears?SEVERED SELVES


Two separate divided silences,
Which, brought together, would find loving voice;
Two glances which together would rejoice
In love, now lost like stars beyond dark trees;
Two hands apart whose touch alone gives ease;
Two bosoms which, heart-shrined with mutual flame,
Would, meeting in one clasp, be made the same;
Two souls, the shores wave-mocked of sundering seas:--

Such are we now. Ah! may our hope forecast
Indeed one hour again, when on this stream
Of darkened love once more the light shall gleam?
An hour how slow to come, how quickly past,
Which blooms and fades, and only leaves at last,
Faint as shed flowers, the attenuated dream.THROUGH DEATH TO LOVE


Like labour-laden moonclouds faint to flee
From winds that sweep the winter-bitten wold,--
Like multiform circumfluence manifold
Of night's flood-tide,--like terrors that agree
Of hoarse-tongued fire and inarticulate sea,--
Even such, within some glass dimmed by our breath,
Our hearts discern wild images of Death,
Shadows and shoals that edge eternity.

Howbeit athwart Death's imminent shade doth soar
One Power, than flow of stream or flight of dove
Sweeter to glide around, to brood above.
Tell me, my heart;--what angel-greeted door
Or threshold of wing-winnowed threshing-floor
Hath guest fire-fledged as thine, whose lord is Love?HOPE OVERTAKEN


I deemed thy garments, 0 my Hope, were grey,
So far I viewed thee. Now the space between
Is passed at length; and garmented in green
Even as in days of yore thou stand'st to-day.
Ah God! and but for lingering dull dismay,
On all that road our footsteps erst had been
Even thus commingled, and our shadows seen
Blent on the hedgerows and the water-way.

0 Hope of mine whose eyes are living love,
No eyes but hers,--0 Love and Hope the same!--
Lean close to me, for now the sinking sun
That warmed our feet scarce gilds our hair above.
0 hers thy voice and very hers thy name!
Alas, cling round me, for the day is done!LOVE AND HOPE


Bless love and hope. Full many a withered year
Whirled past us, eddying to its chill doomsday;
And clasped together where the blown leaves lay,
We long have knelt and wept full many a tear.
Yet lo! one hour at last, the Spring's compeer,
Flutes softly to us from some green byeway:*
Those years, those tears are dead, but only they:--
Bless love and hope, true soul; for we are here.

Cling heart to heart; nor of this hour demand
Whether in very truth, when we are dead,
Our hearts shall wake to know Love's golden head
Sole sunshine of the imperishable land;
Or but discern, through night's unfeatured scope,
Scorn-fired at length the illusive eyes of Hope.

*[sic]CLOUD AND WIND


Love, should I fear death most for you or me?
Yet if you die, can I not follow you,
Forcing the straits of change? Alas! but who
Shall wrest a bond from night's inveteracy,
Ere yet my hazardous soul put forth, to be
Her warrant against all her haste might rue?--
Ah! in your eyes so reached what dumb adieu,
What unsunned gyres of waste eternity?

And if I die the first, shall death be then
A lampless watchtower whence I see you weep?--
Or (woe is me!) a bed wherein my sleep
Ne'er notes (as death s dear cup at last you drain),
The hour when you too learn that all is vain
And that Hope sows what Love shall never reap?SECRET PARTING


Because our talk was of the cloud-control
And moon-track of the journeying face of Fate,
Her tremulous kisses faltered at love's gate
And her eyes dreamed against a distant goal:
But soon, remembering her how brief the whole
Of joy, which its own hours annihilate,
Her set gaze gathered, thirstier than of late,
And as she kissed, her mouth became her soul.

Thence in what ways we wandered, and how strove
To build with fire-tried vows the piteous home
Which memory haunts and whither sleep may roam,--
They only know for whom the roof of Love
Is the still-seated secret of the grove,
Nor spire may rise nor bell be heard therefrom.PARTED LOVE


What shall be said of this embattled day
And armed occupation of this night
By all thy foes beleaguered,--now when sight
Nor sound denotes the loved one far away?
Of these thy vanquished hours what shalt thou say,--
As every sense to which she dealt delight
Now labours lonely o'er the stark noon-height
To reach the sunset's desolate disarray?

Stand still, fond fettered wretch! while Memory's art
Parades the Past before thy face, and lures
Thy spirit to her passionate portraitures:
Till the tempestuous tide-gates flung apart
Flood with wild will the hollows of thy heart,
And thy heart rends thee, and thy body endures.BROKEN MUSIC


The mother will not turn, who thinks she hears
Her nursling's speech first grow articulate;
But breathless with averted eyes elate
She sits, with open lips and open ears,
That it may call her twice. 'Mid doubts and fears
Thus oft my soul has hearkened; till the song,
A central moan for days, at length found tongue,
And the sweet music welled and the sweet tears.

But now, whatever while the soul is fain
To list that wonted murmur, as it were
The speech-bound sea-shell's low importunate strain,--
No breath of song, thy voice alone is there,
0 bitterly beloved! and all her gain
Is but the pang of unpermitted prayer.DEATH-IN-LOVE


There came an image in Life's retinue
That had Love's wings and bore his gonfalon:
Fair was the web, and nobly wrought thereon,
0 soul-sequestered face, thy form and hue!
Bewildering sounds, such as Spring wakens to,
Shook in its folds; and through my heart its power
Sped trackless as the immemorable hour
When birth's dark portal groaned and all was new.

But a veiled woman followed, and she caught
The banner round its staff, to furl and cling,--
Then plucked a feather from the bearer's wing,
And held it to his lips that stirred it not,
And said to me, 'Behold, there is no breath:
I and this Love are one, and I am Death.'WILLOWWOOD


I

I sat with Love upon a woodside well,
Leaning across the water, I and he;
Nor ever did he speak nor looked at me,
But touched his lute wherein was audible
The certain secret thing he had to tell:
Only our mirrored eyes met silently
In the low wave; and that sound came to be
The passionate voice I knew; and my tears fell.

And at their fall, his eyes beneath grew hers;
And with his foot and with his wing-feathers
He swept the spring that watered my heart's drouth.
Then the dark ripples spread to waving hair,
And as I stooped, her own lips rising there
Bubbled with brimming kisses at my mouth.II

And now Love sang: but his was such a song,
So meshed with half-remembrance hard to free,
As souls disused in death's sterility
May sing when the new birthday tarries long.
And I was made aware of a dumb throng
That stood aloof, one form by every tree,
All mournful forms, for each was I or she,
The shades of those our days that had no tongue.

They looked on us, and knew us and were known;
While fast together, alive from the abyss,
Clung the soul-wrung implacable close kiss;
And pity of self through all made broken moan
Which said, 'For once, for once, for once alone!'
And still Love sang, and what he sang was this:--III

'O ye, all ye that walk in Willow-wood,
That walk with hollow faces burning white;
What fathom-depth of soul-struck widowhood,
What long, what longer hours, one lifelong night,
Ere ye again, who so in vain have wooed
Your last hope lost, who so in vain invite
Your lips to that their unforgotten food,
Ere ye, ere ye again shall see the light!

Alas! the bitter banks in Willowwood,
With tear-spurge wan, with blood-wort burning red:
Alas! if ever such a pillow could
Steep deep the soul in sleep till she were dead,--
Better all life forget her than this thing,
That Willowwood should hold her wandering!'IV

So sang he: and as meeting rose and rose
Together cling through the wind's wellaway
Nor change at once, yet near the end of day
The leaves drop loosened where the heart-stain glows,--
So when the song died did the kiss unclose;
And her face fell back drowned, and was as grey
As its grey eyes; and if it ever may
Meet mine again I know not if Love knows.

0nly I know that I leaned low and drank
A long draught from the water where she sank,
Her breath and all her tears and all her soul:
And as I leaned, I know I felt Love's face
Pressed on my neck with moan of pity and grace,
Till both our heads were in his aureole.WITHOUT HER


What of her glass without her? The blank grey
There where the pool is blind of the moon's face.
Come like shadows, so depart.

Act iv. Sc. 1.

What! will the line stretch out to the crack of doom?

Act iv. Sc. 1.
The flighty purpose never is o'ertook, Unless
the deed go with it.

Act iv. Sc. 3.

What, all my pretty chickens, and their dam, At
one fell swoop?

Act iv. Sc. 3.

I cannot but remember such things were, That were most precious to
me.

Act iv. Sc. 3.

O, I could play the woman with mine eyes, And braggart
with my tongue!

Act v. Sc. 3.

My way of life Is fallen into the sear, the
yellow leaf; And that which should accompany
old age, As honor, love, obedience, troops
of friends, I must not look to have; but, in
their stead, Curses, not loud, but deep, mouth-honor,
breath, Which the poor heart would fain deny, but dare not.

Act v. Sc. 3.

Not so sick, my lord, As she is troubled with
thick-coming fancies, That keep her from
her rest.

Act v. Sc. 3.
Canst thou not minister to a mind diseased; Pluck from the memory
a rooted sorrow; Raze out the written troubles of the brain; And,
with some sweet oblivious antidote, Cleanse the stuffed bosom of
that perilous stuff Which weighs upon the heart?
Act v. Sc, 3.

Throw physic to the dogs: I'll none of it.
Act v. Sc. 3.
I would applaud thee to the very echo, That should applaud again.
Act v, Sc. 5.
Hang out our banners on the outward walls; The cry is still, _They
come_.

Act v. Sc. 5.
To-morrow, and to-morrow, and to-morrow, Creeps in this petty pace
from day to day, To the last syllable of recorded time; And all our
yesterdays have lighted fools The way to dusty death. Out, out,
brief candle!
Life's but a walking shadow; a poor player, That struts and frets
his hour upon the stage, And then is heard no more; it is a tale
Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, Signifying nothing.
Act v. Sc. 5.

Blow, wind! come, wrack!
At least we'll die with harness on our back.

Act. v. Sc. 7.
I bear a charmed life.

Act. v. Sc. 7.
That keep the word of promise to our ear, And break it to our hope.HERSELF

To be a sweetness more desired than Spring;
A bodily beauty more acceptable
Than the wild rose-tree's arch that crowns the fell;
To be an essence more environing
Than wine's drained juice; a music ravishing
More than the passionate pulse of Philomel; -
To be all this 'neath one soft bosom's swell
That is the flower of life:--how strange a thing!

How strange a thing to be what Man can know
But as a sacred secret! Heaven's own screen
Hides her soul's purest depth and loveliest glow;
Closely withheld, as all things most unseen,--
The wave-bowered pearl, the heart-shaped seal of green
That flecks the snowdrop underneath the snow.II. HER LOVE

She loves him; for her infinite soul is Love,
And he her lodestar. Passion in her is
A glass facing his fire, where the bright bliss
Is mirrored, and the heat returned. Yet move
That glass, a stranger's amorous flame to prove,
And it shall turn, by instant contraries,
Ice to the moon; while her pure fire to his
For whom it burns, clings close i' the heart's alcove.

Lo! they are one. With wifely breast to breast
And circling arms, she welcomes all command
Of love,--her soul to answering ardours fann'd:
Yet as morn springs or twilight sinks to rest,
Ah! who shall say she deems not loveliest
The hour of sisterly sweet hand-in-hand?III. HER HEAVEN

If to grow old in Heaven is to grow young,
(As the Seer saw and said,) then blest were he
With youth forevermore, whose heaven should be
True Woman, she whom these weak notes have sung.
Here and hereafter,--choir-strains of her tongue,--
Sky-spaces of her eyes,--sweet signs that flee
About her soul's immediate sanctuary,--
Were Paradise all uttermost worlds among.

The sunrise blooms and withers on the hill
Like any hillflower; and the noblest troth
Dies here to dust. Yet shall Heaven's promise clothe
Even yet those lovers who have cherished still
This test for love:--in every kiss sealed fast
To feel the first kiss and forebode the last.LOVE'S LAST GIFT


Love to his singer held a glistening leaf,
And said: 'The rose-tree and the apple-tree
Have fruits to vaunt or flowers to lure the bee;
And golden shafts are in the feathered sheaf
Of the great harvest-marshal, the year's chief,
Victorious Summer; aye, and 'neath warm sea
Strange secret grasses lurk inviolably
Between the filtering channels of sunk reef.

O that he were here to write me down--an ass!

Act iv. Sc. 2.

A fellow that had losses.

Act v. Sc. 1.

For there was never yet philosopher That could
endure the toothache patiently.

MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM.

Act i. Sc. 1.

But earthly happier is the rose distilled Than
that which, withering on the virgin thorn Grows, lives, and dies
in single blessedness.

Act i. Sc. 1.

Ah me! for aught that ever I could read, Could
ever hear by tale or history, The
course of true love never did run smooth.

Act i. Sc. 1.

Love looks not with the eyes, but with the
mind; And therefore is winged Cupid
painted blind.

Act i. Sc. 2.

A proper man as any one shall see in a
summer's day.

Act ii. Sc. 2.

In maiden meditation, fancy free.

Act ii. Sc. 2.
I'll put a girdle round about the earth In forty minutes.
Act ii. Sc. 2.
I know a bank whereon the wild thyme blows, Where ox-lips and the
nodding violet grows.

Act iii. Sc. 2.
So we grew together, Like to a double cherry, seeming parted.
Act v. Sc. 1.
The poet's eye, in a fine frenzy rolling, Doth glance from heaven
to earth, from earth to heaven, And as imagination bodies forth The
forms of things unknown, the poet's pen Turns them to shape, and
gives to airy nothing A local habitation and a name.
LOVE'S LABOR'S LOST.

Act ii. Sc. 1.
A merrier man, Within the limit of becoming mirth, I never spent
an hour's talk withal.

Act v. Sc. 1.
He draweth the thread of his verbosity finer than the staple of his
argument.

MERCHANT OF VENICE.

Act i. Sc. 1.
I hold the world but as the world, Gratiano; A stage, where every
man must play a part, And mine a sad one.

Act i. Sc. 1.
Why should a man, whose blood is warm within, Sit like his grandsire
cut in alabaster?

Act i. Sc. 1.
I am Sir Oracle, And when I ope my lips, let no dog bark!
Act i, Sc. 1.
Gratiano speaks an infinite deal of nothing; more than any man in
all Venice. His reasons are as two grains of wheat hid in two bushels
of chaff: you shall seek all day ere you find them: and, when you
have them, they are not worth the search.Whether it forecast
The rose-winged hours that flutter in the van
Of Love's unquestioning unreveale'd span,--
Visions of golden futures: or that last
Wild pageant of the accumulated past
That clangs and flashes for a drowning man.INCLUSIVENESS


The changing guests, each in a different mood,
Sit at the roadside table and arise:
And every life among them in likewise
Is a soul's board set daily with new food.
What man has bent o'er his son's sleep, to brood
How that face shall watch his when cold it lies?--
Or thought, as his own mother kissed his eyes,
Of what her kiss was when his father wooed?

May not this ancient room thou sit'st in dwell
In separate living souls for joy or pain?
Nay, all its corners may be painted plain
Where Heaven shows pictures of some life spent well;
And may be stamped, a memory all in vain,
Upon the sight of lidless eyes in Hell.ARDOUR AND MEMORY


The cuckoo-throb, the heartbeat of the Spring;
The rosebud's blush that leaves it as it grows
Into the full-eyed fair unblushing rose;
The summer clouds that visit every wing
With fires of sunrise and of sunsetting;
The furtive flickering streams to light re-born
'Mid airs new-fledged and valorous lusts of morn,
While all the daughters of the daybreak sing:--

These ardour loves, and memory: and when flown
All joys, and through dark forest-boughs in flight
The wind swoops onward brandishing the light,
Even yet the rose-tree's verdure left alone
Will flush all ruddy though the rose be gone;
With ditties and with dirges infinite.KNOWN IN VAIN


As two whose love, first foolish, widening scope,
Knows suddenly, with music high and soft,
The Holy of holies; who because they scoff'd
Are now amazed with shame, nor dare to cope
With the whole truth aloud, lest heaven should ope;
Yet, at their meetings, laugh not as they
In speech; nor speak, at length; but sitting oft
Together, within hopeless sight of hope
For hours are silent:--So it happeneth
When Work and Will awake too late, to gaze
After their life sailed by, and hold their breath.
Ah! who shall dare to search through what sad maze
Thenceforth their incommunicable ways
Follow the desultory feet of Death?HEART OF THE NIGHT


From child to youth; from youth to arduous man;
From lethargy to fever of the heart;
From faithful life to dream-dowered days apart;
From trust to doubt; from doubt to brink of ban;--
Thus much of change in one swift cycle ran
Till now. Alas, the soul!--how soon must she
Accept her primal immortality,--
The flesh resume its dust whence it began?

0 Lord of work and peace! O Lord of life!
0 Lord, the awful Lord of will! though late,
Even yet renew this soul with duteous breath:
That when the peace is garnered in from strife,
The work retrieved, the will regenerate,
This soul may see thy face, 0 Lord of death!THE LANDMARK


Was _that_ the landmark? What,--the foolish well
Whose wave, low down, I did not stoop to drink,
But sat and flung the pebbles from its brink
In sport to send its imaged skies pell-mell,
(And mine own image, had I noted well!)
Was that my point of turning?--I had thought
The stations of my course should rise unsought,
As altar-stone or ensigned citadel.

But lo! the path is missed, I must go back,
And thirst to drink when next I reach the spring
Which once I stained, which since may have grown black.
Yet though no light be left nor bird now sing
As here I turn, I'll thank God, hastening,
That the same goal is still on the same track.A DARK DAY


The gloom that breathes upon me with these airs
Is like the drops which strike the traveller's brow
Who knows not, darkling, if they bring him now
Fresh storm, or be old rain the covert bears.
Ah! bodes this hour some harvest of new tares,
Or hath but memory of the day whose plough
Sowed hunger once,-- the night at length when thou,
0 prayer found vain, didst fall from out my prayers?

_--Strict Press censorship ordered. Unionist Papers
are forbidden to comment adversely on my
operations. As a result, the first nineteen columns
of _The Pall Mall Gazette_ were blank this
afternoon. In the evening edition, however,
the editor could no longer restrain himself, and he is now waiting
at the docks as a consignment of cocoa for SHACKLETON'S South Pole
party.

_Wednesday._--Overheard an unexpected compliment
(paid me by a Unionist) in a District train
this evening. This gentleman said, "After all,
he's a strong man. One does know where
one _is_ with a man like that." He had to
confess, however, that he didn't know where
BONAR LAW was. Neither do I. My new-found
friend got out at the Temple, and I wish I could have followed him
and asked him to tea one day, but the fact that I was disguised and
on my way to Blackfriars Pier to see the LORD MAYOR'S departure in
a submarine prevented me.

I have always wanted to witness one of these
deportations, and certainly the police were very
nippy, if I may use the word. The LORD MAYOR
descended from a taxi in a straw-filled crate
labelled "St.
Bernard--fierce," and was in the submarine in no time. It was
his own fault for summoning a non-party
meeting of protest at the Guildhall. I hate
these non-party meetings--they're always
more insulting than the other
sort.

_Friday._--Anthony says that I shall have to get
an Indemnity Bill through the Commons; otherwise, when martial law
is over, I may get hanged or something.

This is rather annoying. Deported Anthony to bed,
but could not get rid of my anxiety so easily.
The Unionists of course will vote against an
Indemnity Bill, and so, I fear, will a good
many Liberals and Labour men, who say
that I am undemocratic. Awkward.

_Saturday._--Still a little anxious about the
I.B., but a great victory over the CHANCELLOR
OF THE EXCHEQUER at golf in the afternoon has
restored my spirits somewhat. We were
square going to the eighteenth, and when I got
into a nasty place in the bunker guarding the
green it seemed all over; but with a sudden inspiration
I proclaimed martial law (which, as Anthony says, supersedes the
ordinary laws) and teed my ball up.

Thence easily to the green and down in ten, DAVID
arriving in his usual mechanical eleven.

II

Watch thou and fear; to-morrow thou shalt die.
Or art thou sure thou shalt have time for death?
Is not the day which God's word promiseth
To come man knows not when? In yonder sky,
Now while we speak, the sun speeds forth: can I
Or thou assure him of his goal? God's breath
Even at the moment haply quickeneth
The air to a flame; till spirits, always nigh
Though screened and hid, shall walk the daylight here.

And dost thou prate of all that man shall do?
Canst thou, who hast but plagues, presume to be
Glad in his gladness that comes after thee?
Will _his_ strength slay _thy_ worm in Hell? Go to:
Cover thy countenance, and watch, and fear.Think thou and act; to-morrow thou shalt die.
Outstretched in the sun's warmth upon the shore,
Thou say'st: 'Man's measured path is all gone o'er:
Up all his years, steeply, with strain and sigh,
Man clomb* until he touched the truth; and I,
Even I, am he whom it was destined for.'
How should this be? Art thou then so much more
Than they who sowed, that thou shouldst reap thereby?

Nay, come up hither. From this wave-washed mound
Unto the furthest flood-brim look with me;
Then reach on with thy thought till it be drown'd.
Miles and miles distant though the grey line be,
And though thy soul sail leagues and leagues beyond,--
Still, leagues beyond those leagues there is more sea.

*[sic]OLD AND NEW ART


I. ST. LUKE THE PAINTER


Give honour unto Luke Evangelist;
For he it was (the aged legends say)
Who first taught Art to fold her hands and pray.
Scarcely at once she dared to rend the mist
Of devious symbols: but soon having wist
How sky-breadth and field-silence and this day
Are symbols also in some deeper way,
She looked through these to God and was God's priest.

And if, past noon, her toil began to irk,
And she sought talismans, and turned in vain
To soulless self-reflections of man's skill,
Yet now, in this the twilight, she might still
Kneel in the latter grass to pray again,
Ere the night cometh and she may not work.II. NOT AS THESE


'I am not as these are,' the poet saith
In youth's pride, and the painter, among men
At bay, where never pencil comes nor pen,
And shut about with his own frozen breath.
To others, for whom only rhyme wins faith
As poets,--only paint as painters,--then
He turns in the cold silence; and again
Shrinking, 'I am not as these are,' he saith.

And say that this is so, what follows it?
For were thine eyes set backwards in thine head,
Such words were well; but they see on, and far.
Unto the lights of the great Past, new-lit
Fair for the Future's track, look thou instead,--
Say thou instead 'I am not as _these_ are.'III. THE HUSBANDMEN


Though God, as one that is an householder,
Called these to labour in his vine-yard first,
Before the husk of darkness was well burst
Bidding them grope their way out and bestir,
(Who, questioned of their wages, answered, 'Sir,
Unto each man a penny:') though the worst
Burthen of heat was theirs and the dry thirst:
Though God hath since found none such as these were
To do their work like them:--Because of this
Stand not ye idle in the market-place.
For I care not for elephants, no, not a
particle; Sorrows they have, but they cause
me no ruth; And a fig for their tushes!
I mentioned the article Merely to lead you along to the truth, To
the fact of all wonder, Our baby (no blunder-- You can not only
feel, you can see it) has cut his first tooth.

EVOE.

* * * * *
Box and Cox.

"The doctors have stopped issuing bulletins
regarding Sir Lionel Phillips whose
condition continues to give satisfaction.

He is able to lease his bed for a short
time daily."--_Natal Mercury._
* * * * *
"When Lord Kitchener arrived in Cairo very
few people were aware that, travelling
on the same train as his lordship, were a crocodile, two hyenas
and two civet cats.

These animals had been presented to Lord
Kitchener when he was at Kosti."--_Egyptian
Gazette._
We wish we had had the luck to attend this
levée.

* * * * *
THE STRONG MAN.

[_A fragment of a diary, signed H.H.A., which
may be picked up in Bouverie Street some day._]

_Monday._--Although I continue to wear an enigmatic smile
in public, I may confess to myself that the situation causes me
anxiety.

The Home Rule Bill was passed five days ago,
and already there are signs of military activity
in Ireland. Anthony thinks I ought
to proclaim martial law. In the course of a
short lecture at breakfast this morning he
referred to the historic case of
South Africa, and reminded me of the enthusiasm
with which the Unionist Party greeted this stirring exhibition of
the strong hand.

Martial law, he says, supersedes all other
law, and the deportation of any person whose presence
is not desired becomes----At this point I had
him deported to the nursery, for I desired to be
alone. All the same I feel that there
is a good deal in what he says, and I shall think it over to-night.

_Tuesday._--Martial law proclaimed. I have
decided to be The Strong Man of England.
Force may be no remedy, but it is much
esteemed by the Unionist Party, and I don't see
why WINSTON should be the only popular member
of the Cabinet.

_Wednesday._--Excellent.

CARSON has been safely smuggled out of the country.
He travelled from Belfast to Liverpool in a
packing-case labelled "Oranges," and was then
embarked in a whaler for Greenland. The ship,
I understand, has no wireless installation and
will not stop at any port on the way.

As he had to leave Belfast rather hurriedly,
without packing, I have lent
him a spare suit of WEDGWOOD BENN'S clothes.
The authorities have orders to deal with the
other leading members of the Ulster
Provisional Government in the same way.

_Thursday._--The Ulster leaders have been safely deported.

Unfortunately, there was no ship
immediately available for them, and at
the present moment they are in a
pantechnicon labelled "Theatrical Troupe" (a
tip from BOTHA) touring the Cromwell Road. They
go up and down twice in a day, I am told, stopping nowhere on the
way.

Without their leaders the Ulstermen are weakening,
and they may be expected to accept the
Home Rule Act peaceably in the course of a
few days. Martial law is certainly
an extraordinary solvent of the most difficult
situation, and I can only wonder that I never
thought of it before.

_Saturday._--However hard one tries one can
never please everybody. In a fierce speech at Bootle
last night, BONAR denounced me as (among other
things) a Tyrant, a Dictator, and an
Autocrat! (The other things were not so
polite.)

By an exhibition of the strong hand I have
practically stifled the Ulster Revolution,
and this is all the thanks I get
from the Unionist Party. I have sent him a note, asking
him to drop in in a friendly way and chat about
it. We haven't had one of our little conversations
for a long time.

_Monday._--BONAR refused my invitation indignantly, and actually
made another speech on the same lines at Pudsey. Even the Liberal
papers confessed that it was enthusiastically received; in fact,
P.W.W. in _The Daily News_ went so far as to say that a staunch
Radical in the gallery "paled suddenly" and later on "blenched."
There was only one way of dealing with this situation. BONAR LAW
had become a serious danger to the State (me), he was fomenting
rebellion against authority (mine), and he would have to go. I
telegraphed instructions, and within half an hour BONAR had left
Pudsey for Farnborough as a grand piano.Behold, this crocus is a withering flame;
This snowdrop, snow; this apple-blossom's part
To breed the fruit that breeds the serpent's art.
Nay, for these Spring-flowers, turn thy face from them,
Nor gaze till on the year's last lily-stem
The white cup shrivels round the golden heart.FAREWELL TO THE GLEN


Sweet stream-fed glen, why say 'farewell' to thee
Who far'st so well and find'st for ever smooth
The brow of Time where man may read no ruth?
Nay, do thou rather say 'farewell' to me,
Who now fare forth in bitterer fantasy
Than erst was mine where other shade might soothe
By other streams, what while in fragrant youth
The bliss of being sad made melancholy.

And yet, farewell! For better shalt thou fare
When children bathe sweet faces in thy flow
And happy lovers blend sweet shadows there
In hours to come, than when an hour ago
Thine echoes had but one man's sighs to bear
And thy trees whispered what he feared to know.VAIN VIRTUES


What is the sorriest thing that enters Hell?
None of the sins,--but this and that fair deed
Which a soul's sin at length could supersede.
These yet are virgins, whom death's timely knell
Might once have sainted; whom the fiends compel
Together now, in snake-bound shuddering sheaves
Of anguish, while the scorching bridegroom leaves
Their refuse maidenhood abominable.

Night sucks them down, the garbage of the pit,
Whose names, half entered in the book of Life,
Were God's desire at noon. And as their hair
And eyes sink last, the Torturer deigns no whit
To gaze, but, yearning, waits his worthier wife,
The Sin still blithe on earth that sent them there.LOST DAYS


The lost days of my life until to-day,
What were they, could I see them on the street
Lie as they fell? Would they be ears of wheat
Sown once for food but trodden into clay?
Or golden coins squandered and still to pay?
Or drops of blood dabbling the guilty feet?
Or such spilt water as in dreams must cheat
The throats of men in Hell, who thirst alway?

I do not see them here; but after death
God knows I know the faces I shall see,
Each one a murdered self, with low last breath.
'I am thyself, -- what hast thou done to me?'
'And I--and I--thyself,' (lo! each one saith,)
'And thou thyself to all eternity!'DEATH'S SONGSTERS


When first that horse, within whose populous womb
The birth was death, o'ershadowed Troy with fate,
Her elders, dubious of its Grecian freight,
Brought Helen there to sing the songs of home:
She whispered, 'Friends, I am alone; come, come!'
Then, crouched within, Ulysses waxed afraid,
And on his comrades' quivering mouths he laid
His hands, and held them till the voice was dumb.

On the left side is a window. Four large
grandfather clocks are standing here and there round
the room. In front of the fire is seated
a little wee bit of a pigeen. The Stranger is seated
by the window, apart from the rest.
HERO'S LAMP*


That lamp thou fill'st in Eros name to-night,
0 Hero, shall the Sestian augurs take
To-morrow, and for drowned Leander's sake
To Anteros its fireless lip shall plight.
Aye, waft the unspoken vow: yet dawn's first light
On ebbing storm and life twice ebb'd must break;
While 'neath no sunrise, by the Avernian Lake,
Lo where Love walks, Death's pallid neophyte.

St. 13.

True love's the gift which God has given
To man alone beneath the heaven.
It is the secret sympathy, The silver link, the silken
tie, Which heart to heart, and mind to mind, In body and in soul
can bind.

Canto vi. St. 1.?